 Charles Taylor plc
8
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review
2013 was a year of positive 
advancement for Charles Taylor. We made 
progress with many of our growth initiatives 
and took further important steps to optimise 
our business operations in order to establish  
a firm foundation for further growth.
2013 performance
Professional Services
The Group’s core Professional Services businesses made good 
overall progress as set out in the table below. Revenue increased by 
5.5% to £111.9m (2012: £106.1m) and operating segment profit 
was up 11.6% to £10.5m (2012: £9.4m
1
):
 – The performance of our Management Services business was 
steady as the underlying mutual insurance companies we 
manage continue to grow.
 – The Adjusting Services business performed very well with 
encouraging levels of claims work across all business lines.
 – The smaller Insurance Support Services business continued 
to find trading conditions challenging and its performance 
was disappointing.
Professional Services performance 2013 (£m)
1
Revenue
2013 2012
Management Services 41.1 39.0
Adjusting Services 54.9 50.3
Insurance Support Services 15.9 16.7
Professional Services 
revenue 111.9 106.1 +5.5%
Note: Revenue is stated before inter-segment eliminations.
1.  2012 figures have been restated for IAS 19R, see note 1 to the Financial Statements.
Operating  
segment profit
2013 2012
Management Services 6.6 6.5
Adjusting Services 4.8 2.7
Insurance Support Services (0.9) 0.2
Unallocated (0.1) –
Professional Services 
operating segment profit 10.4 9.3 +11.9%
Insurers in Run-off: The Insurers in Run-off business revenue was 
£5.0m (2012: £5.4m). Operating segment profit increased to £0.8m 
(2012: £0.3m), although the result attributable to shareholders was 
down after non-controlling interests. 
See Group CFO’s report page 15. Charles Taylor plc
9
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Management Services
The Management Services business 
provides end‑to‑end management services 
to insurance companies and associations. 
We deliver a complete outsourced 
management and operational service to 
our insurance company clients, reporting 
directly to their independent boards of 
directors. Our services cover every aspect 
of those companies’ operations from 
underwriting, claims management and 
delivery of safety services to regulatory, 
accounting and administrative operations, 
investment management, customer 
service, corporate governance and 
company secretarial services. We primarily 
manage three mutual insurance companies 
– the Standard Club, Signal and SCALA – 
and provide administration services to the 
Offshore Pollution Liability Association.
We are remunerated by fees from our 
mutual insurance company and association 
clients. Where we provide a full 
management service, growth in the size of 
the mutuals, the number and extent of 
services we deliver and the volume of work 
involved generally leads to growth in 
management activities and ultimately the 
level of management fees. The performance 
of the managed mutual insurance 
companies is strong – providing a positive 
long-term indicator of the Management 
Services business. The business also seeks 
to grow through the identification and 
implementation of opportunities to develop 
new insurance ventures and by tendering 
for the management contracts of  
existing mutual insurance companies  
and other associations.
Management Services –  
UK & International
  Standard Club: our work for the 
Standard Club delivered a solid result 
for the club and Charles Taylor 
secured an increased management 
fee for the year. The club provides 
protection and indemnity (P&I) 
insurance to approximately 10% of 
world shipping. Ship operators are 
attracted by the club’s financial 
strength, high quality membership 
and reputation for service.
 Insured tonnage increased by 4.6% 
over the year and stood at 137m gt at 
31 December 2013. This growth was 
the result of increased entries in the 
club by existing members and the 
addition of some new members. Total 
calls and premiums for the 2012–13 
policy year were US$294m. The club 
had a satisfactory 2014–15 renewal in 
February 2014, with a slight fall in 
insured tonnage and an overall 
increase of 10% in premiums.
 New client
 Offshore Pollution Liability 
Association (OPOL): In 2013, we 
successfully tendered to provide 
administrative and financial services to 
OPOL following a competitive tender. 
All offshore operators currently active in 
exploration and production on the 
United Kingdom Continental Shelf 
are party to a voluntary oil pollution 
compensation scheme known as 
OPOL. It applies to all offshore facilities 
from which there is a risk of a discharge 
of oil causing pollution damage. The 
Association exists to ensure that, in the 
event of a spillage or escape of oil, third 
party claims for pollution damage are 
met and the cost of remedial measures 
reimbursed under the terms of the 
OPOL Agreement.
 New products and services
 The Standard Club Hull facility 
operated by Charles Taylor was 
launched in April 2013 met with 
positive interest from both ship owners 
and brokers. Over 600 vessels are 
now insured under the facility.
  Charles Taylor launched a new 
Directors and Officers (D&O) insurance 
product for ship owners at the end of 
2013. We believe this product will be 
attractive to ship owners familiar with 
the quality and reputation of the 
Standard Club and Charles Taylor.
Case study
Creating an effective workers’ 
compensation claims adjusting service
If an employee is injured in the course of 
their work on the waterfront in the USA, 
their wages and medical benefits are met 
by workers’ compensation insurance. In 
late 2013 we launched a new claims 
adjusting service to assist ports and 
terminals operators with their workers’ 
compensation claims, which met with 
immediate success. It is already 
established as one of the network of five 
trusted third-party claims administrators 
that handle the workers’ compensation 
claims on behalf of Signal Mutual. At any 
time Signal is typically handling around 
5,000 workers’ compensation claims.
The new service was launched to adjust 
claims for a leading global ports and 
terminals operator. Charles Taylor was 
appointed to adjust claims for eight North 
American container terminals. In less than 
30 days, we assembled a team of 
experienced adjusters and coordinated  
the transfer of nearly 600 workers’ 
compensation claims. 
The Signal member experienced seamless 
implementation of Charles Taylor’s 
workers’ compensation adjusting services 
and has continued to benefit from effective 
advocacy by experienced adjusters and 
noted a continuation of high quality 
performance under this new delivery 
model. We are now seeing interest  
from other North American operators 
to use our claims adjusting service 
alongside Signal Mutual’s other claims 
adjusting partners.
Business strategy initiatives are highlighted in the 
Group CEO’s reports with the following symbols:
 Optimise business operations.
 Create growth in the core Professional 
Services businesses.
 Explore medium-term strategic options.
Container terminal Jacksonville, Florida, USA Charles Taylor plc
10
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Management Services – Americas
The Management Services Americas 
business had a successful 2013.
Signal Mutual: Charles Taylor has been 
the manager of Signal Mutual, the largest 
provider of longshore workers’ 
compensation insurance to the US maritime 
industry, since it was founded in 1983.
 Our work for Signal Mutual delivered 
a positive result for the Association. 
Eighteen new member companies 
joined Signal for the 2012/13 
membership year. 98% of existing 
members renewed their workers’ 
compensation insurance with the 
mutual and total membership has now 
reached 235 companies. The total 
payroll of the member companies, on 
which calls are calculated, reached 
US$3.34 billion, an increase of 11.7% 
and a record for the Association. Total 
calls for the year will be around 
US$218.2m, up by 6.4% over the 
previous year. Signal continued to 
deliver an outstanding safety record with 
both the number of total claims reported 
and lost time incidents per 200,000 man 
hours reducing by over 20% in the year. 
A new three-year management fee 
agreement with the mutual, 
commenced on 1 October 2013. 
SCALA provides workers compensation to 
the majority of Canada’s ship owners. The 
mutual delivered a steady performance 
during 2013. Total calls for the year were 
Canadian $5.7m.
 New services
 2013 was an important year for the 
development of services in 
Management Services Americas:
 – We launched a new claims 
adjusting service to assist ports 
and terminals operators in the 
management of their workers’ 
compensation claims and have 
already secured a major contract.
 – Our Safety Management Service, 
launched in 2012, secured nine 
new clients during the year.
 – We established Charles Taylor 
General Agency to market Charles 
Taylor developed insurance covers 
to clients in the USA such as Hull 
and Machinery, D&O and other 
insurance covers. It is currently in 
the process of being licensed in 
over 40 states.
 – We created a new Marine Claims 
Auditing service, combining skills 
from Charles Taylor Technical 
Services and other claims 
professionals across the Group, 
which secured its first client.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Adjusting Services
The Adjusting Services business 
provides loss adjusting services across 
the aviation, energy, marine, property 
& casualty and special risks sectors. 
It also provides average adjusting 
services for ship owners. The business 
primarily focuses on larger and more 
complex claims arising from major 
insurance losses.
The business performed well over the year 
with all adjusting business lines delivering 
strong performance. In particular, we 
benefited from a steady volume of larger 
and more complex claims to adjust over 
the whole year rather than being requested 
to work on a small number of exceptionally 
large claims. 
Aviation performed well with continued 
growth in claims in Asia. We were 
appointed to adjust a number of large 
energy claims around the world, including 
in Canada, Argentina and Africa. Our 
Marine team benefited from a steady flow 
of work. Our Property & Casualty and 
Special Risks team performed well. In 
particular, we were instructed on significant 
business following the Calgary and Toronto 
floods. We also secured a greater volume 
of work in the professional and financial 
risk classes and delivered strong growth 
from property & casualty claims 
in Indonesia.
In 2013 we continued to invest in new 
people, offices and systems:
 We developed our office network 
further, as we believe our strong 
international network gives us a 
competitive advantage. Market 
feedback indicates we secured a 
number of claims during the year as 
a direct result of having offices and 
staff available in the right locations. 
Our new offices in Colombia and San 
Francisco are now fully established. 
We have also registered a business in 
Brazil working in close co-operation 
with the Management Services 
business; we anticipate that the  
office will be fully established and 
operational in 2014, providing both 
loss adjusting services and  
P&I services. Charles Taylor plc
11
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 We completed the acquisition of a 
majority stake in Noble Inspection and 
Loss Adjustment Company (NILACO), 
a licensed loss adjuster based in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The 
acquisition provided us with offices in 
Riyadh and Jeddah and the ability to 
deliver loss adjusting services across 
Saudi Arabia. It builds on the Group’s 
existing capabilities in the Middle East 
with offices already in United Arab 
Emirates and Qatar.
 Our initiatives to recruit new senior 
adjusting staff who can win additional 
business and strengthen our 
relationships with markets continued. 
As indicated at the half year, we saw 
some staff movement and stepped up 
our programme of identifying highly 
qualified senior adjusting specialists to 
join our teams. As a result, new senior 
appointments have been successfully 
made in our energy business line.
 We continued to focus on managing 
the working capital requirements of 
the Adjusting Services business and 
collected a record amount of cash, 
£60.7m, in 2013. Collections, 
measured in debtor months were 
unfortunately slightly slower than the 
prior year. Debtor months rose to 4.9 
(2012: 4.3 months) and work in 
progress increased slightly to 5.2 
months (2012: 5.1 months). We 
achieved record revenue in 2013 as a 
result of the positive growth in claims 
volume and workload which increased 
the business’s working capital.
 We made good progress on a major 
project to develop and roll out our new 
loss adjusting claims management 
system. Initial trials have been 
successfully completed. We expect that 
the new system will increase efficiency, 
reduce the administrative burden for 
our loss adjusters and support our drive 
to reduce working capital.
 
 We are developing an enhanced 
management structure in Adjusting 
Services which is being rolled out 
during 2014. This is designed to 
support the continued strong growth 
in the business. It will also allow us to 
capitalise more fully on the 
combination of our business line 
expertise and regional strength.
Case study
Building a P&C adjusting business  
in Indonesia
Less than three years after recruiting our 
first Property & Casualty adjusters in 
Indonesia, we have built a business with 
nearly 30 staff, expertise across multiple 
sectors and substantial revenues.
The business was originally established to 
handle heavy equipment insurance claims. 
We have now extended our expertise 
across multiple sectors, including the 
telecommunications and power 
generation sectors.
Our growing reputation as a Property 
& Casualty adjusting business was 
underlined at the start of 2014 when we 
were appointed to handle multiple flood 
claims in Manado, the capital city of the 
North Sulawesi province of Indonesia.  
The city was inundated with massive 
floods which reached up to 3m in height, 
with around 70% of the city underwater  
at the height of the flooding. 
Our team reacted rapidly to the crisis. 
Adjusters were immediately despatched  
to Manado to handle claims with a 
temporary Charles Taylor Adjusting office 
established in the city. Multiple 
assignments were received, many  
involving sizeable commercial losses,  
and good progress has been made in 
resolving those matters.
Jakarta capital city of Indonesia Charles Taylor plc
12
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
The Insurance Support Services 
business, the smallest of our 
Professional Services businesses, 
provides technical services to clients 
in the Lloyd’s, London and international 
insurance markets. For example, it 
provides services to around 80% of 
Lloyd’s managing agents. It also delivers 
life and non-life run-off servicing services 
from London, Dublin and the Isle of Man. 
The business is a leading provider of 
third party life insurance administration 
on the Isle of Man and also includes 
our investment management, captive 
management, risk consulting and 
specialty risks business lines. Finally, the 
Insurance Support Services business 
acts as the Group’s business incubator 
where we can develop and test new 
business initiatives.
Insurance Support Services – Non-life
We appointed a new head of non-life ISS 
in the second half of the year to give a 
stronger identity and clear vision to the 
non-life Insurance Support Services (ISS) 
businesses. His initial focus is on 
developing existing and new service 
offerings to clients along with identifying 
synergies and opportunities for joint 
working across the Group.
Charles Taylor Insurance Services 
(CTIS): CTIS is the largest of the non-life 
Insurance Support Services business lines. 
It provides outsourced back office 
insurance services to the Lloyd’s, London 
and international insurance markets. As 
reported at the half year, market demand 
for some services reduced, leading to the 
loss of a few larger legacy contracts. While 
action was taken to cut costs, this still 
impacted the full year performance. The 
new services we launched in the year have 
taken longer than expected to gain traction 
and hence were not sufficient to counter-
balance the fall off of existing legacy 
contracts. There are now some signs that 
new business performance is improving:
 We were appointed to develop 
and manage a new Third Party 
Administrators Central Database 
by the Lloyd’s Market Association 
following a competitive tender.
 Our Taylored Claims Management 
services, which enable Lloyd’s 
managing agents to achieve faster 
claims settlement was purchased by 
three major managing agents.
 We were appointed by two Managing 
General Agencies to provide 
administrative services.
 There is an ongoing move in the 
Lloyd’s market to offer greater choice 
of outsourcing partners to Lloyd’s 
market participants. We believe we are 
well positioned to capitalise on this 
trend and have invested in a senior 
team to develop new elective claims 
services for Lloyd’s Managing Agents.
Charles Taylor KnowledgeCenter: 
 In the last months of 2013 we acquired 
the business and assets of 
KnowledgeCenter, a leading provider 
of tailored business solutions to the 
insurance industry. The acquisition 
gives us a competitive advantage on 
key technology products and 
processes, which we can combine 
with our other insurance support 
services. While initial sales have been 
slower than expected, it is still early 
days and the integration of the 
business is progressing.
Other non-life Insurance 
Support Services: 
 Our Captive Management business 
continues to perform steadily and 
we have won contracts to manage 
a number of additional captive 
insurance cells. 
 Our speciality risks business, which 
provides tailored insurance products to 
meet the specific insurance needs of 
niche sectors, has worked closely with 
the Management Services business to 
develop new insurance covers for the 
international marine market.
Other Insurance Support Services
The UK offshore life run-off servicing 
business performed in line with the 
expected run-off profile. We also 
strengthened the business development, 
legal and administration teams in our 
investment management business, which 
continues to deliver a steady performance.
Insurance Support Services
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Case study
Transforming the management of third 
party claims administrators for Lloyd’s
There are over 700 TPAs supporting Lloyd’s 
managing agents with claims settlement, 
but in the past there had been no central 
database to gather and automate TPA 
information. In late 2013, Charles Taylor was 
appointed to transform the management of 
third party claims administrators in Lloyd’s. 
We won a tender from the Lloyd’s Market 
Association to develop and manage a new 
Third Party Administrator (TPA) database 
for the market.
Our strong working relationships with the 
Lloyd’s market coupled with our proven 
ability to deliver effective market-facing 
solutions were instrumental in our 
appointment. Planning kicked off 
immediately so the development of the 
new database is already well underway. 
The database will enhance the Market’s 
governance of outsourcing arrangements 
and increase the efficiency of the claims 
settlement process. It will also enable third 
party administrators appointed by Lloyd’s 
managing agents to benefit from reduced 
work duplication and streamlined audits.
Lloyd’s building City of London Charles Taylor plc
13
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Insurers in Run-off
The Insurers in Run-off business owns 
life and non-life insurance companies 
which are closed to new business 
and runs off their liabilities in an 
orderly manner.
Insurers in Run-off 2013 (£m)
2013 2012
Revenue 5.0 5.4 –6.4%
Operating segment profit
1
0.8 0.3 +179%
1 Excluding non-controlling interests.
UK Offshore Life Run-off
We completed the integration of the Global 
Life Assurance business, acquired in 2012, 
into our Isle of Man run-off life business in 
the second half of the year, generating a 
small cash release. In line with our 
business strategy, we continue to seek 
further UK offshore life insurance 
acquisitions, which meet our criteria. 
These also benefit our Insurance Support 
Services business through increased 
run-off servicing contracts.
Non-life Run-off
The Group’s three non-life insurance 
companies are running off satisfactorily, 
with claims experience improving 
compared to the prior year. We continue to 
explore our options in the non-life market 
following our decision not to acquire any 
further non-life run-off businesses.
 We established IT teams in Vietnam to 
help develop a new system for 
Management Services and the new 
loss adjusting management system for 
Adjusting Services. This takes 
advantage of the high levels of IT 
literacy, lower operating costs and 
operational scalability in Vietnam.
 Our facilities team successfully 
renegotiated charges for business 
rates, property insurance, and 
service charges delivering a material 
cost saving.
 Our finance team renegotiated the 
Group’s senior finance facilities on 
favourable terms and delivered 
significant cost savings on external 
audit fees.
See Group CFO’s Report page 15. 
Business restructuring
During the year we also took steps to 
improve operational efficiency. We 
reviewed the structure of our professional 
services businesses to better align 
headcount with the areas of strong growth. 
Overall headcount increased by 5.5%, 
when including new offices openings and 
the acquisitions made during the year. In 
some areas we have been able to achieve 
significant long-term staff cost savings. 
See Group CFO’s Report page 15.
Other business 
strategy initiatives 
In addition to the initiatives to optimise 
business operations already highlighted 
in this report, we also took a number 
steps to further strengthen and increase 
the efficiency of our shared services 
teams. Notable developments include 
the following:
See Business strategy page 5.
2013 was an important year of 
development and progress at Charles 
Taylor. We have made considerable efforts 
to ensure that our business has good, 
varied and reliable sources of profitable 
income, and, as a result we are well 
positioned to make further progress in our 
endeavour to grow our business profitably 
in the years to come.
Outlook
David Marock
Group Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2014
1.  2012 figures have been restated for IAS 19R,  
see note 1 to the Financial Statements.
