 06 Charter plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s statement
Charter delivered excellent results 
for 2007, building on the performance
reported in earlier years and at the half
year. These results were achieved
against the background of generally
favourable market conditions that
prevailed during the year. 
In 2007, sales increased by 15.4 per cent to £1,451.1 million,
notwithstanding a negative currency impact of 2.2 per cent.
Adjusted operating profit increased to £173.8 million, despite
adverse currency movements of £1.5 million. 
Our principal measure of the value that we are creating for
shareholders is adjusted earnings per share, which increased
by 24.4 per cent to 84.7 pence per share. 
Summary of results
The key performance indicators used by the Board in assessing
the results of the welding, cutting and automation business
(‘ESAB’), the air and gas handling business (‘Howden’) and 
the consolidated results of Charter are summarised in the
following table, alongside comparatives for 2006. 
In relation to each indicator, the outcome for the year is
considered against the outcome for the previous year and
against budget, taking into account internal and external
factors, and any unusual or non-recurring items, which
otherwise might have a distorting effect on the outcome. 
The results for 2007 continue the trend of ten successive 
half years of growth in adjusted earnings per share, as the
businesses have been strengthened and improved.
ESAB achieved strong increases in its sales and operating
profit, which were in line with the demanding targets set by
the Board, and which reflected generally favourable market
conditions and the significant efforts made to develop the
business in recent years. Margins improved with increased
activity and operational improvements in the business.
Howden’s increases in sales and operating profit were also 
in line with the targets set by the Board. These targets
reflected generally favourable market conditions and also the
changing composition of Howden’s business as higher sales
to customers in North America and Europe offset the
anticipated fall in sales to customers in China. Margins
continued to move forward.
The Board considers that the best measure of the extent 
to which Charter is generating shareholder value is adjusted
earnings per share, which is considered against budget and
against the performance of a peer group of companies. The
actual growth in adjusted earnings per share achieved by Charter
in 2007 of 24.4 per cent was ahead of budget and ranked
favourably alongside the growth achieved by its peer group.
It is recognised that financial performance is not a sufficient
measure on its own. Non-financial key performance indicators,
such as health and safety and environmental measures, are
monitored with robust plans in place to continuously improve
performance. These matters receive regular focus, both from
management and the Board and are reported on in the
Company’s Corporate social responsibility report.
Summary of results
Movement
2006 in key
2007 (restated)1 performance
£m £m indicators
ESAB 970.8 828.4 +17.2%
Howden 480.3 429.5 +11.8%
Charter consolidated revenue 1,451.1 1,257.9 +15.4%
Howden order book 416.7 361.0 +15.4%
ESAB 126.6 102.1 +24.0%
Howden2 57.6 50.3 +14.5%
Howden – profit on sale
of property – 4.8
Central operations (10.9) (12.6)
Charter consolidated 
operating profit 173.3 144.6 +19.8%
Operating margin
ESAB 13.0% 12.3% +70 basis
points
Howden 12.0% 11.7% +30 basis
points
Charter
Adjusted earnings per share 84.7p 68.1p +24.4%
Cash flow from operations £149.1m £106.8m +39.6%
1 the 2006 comparatives have been restated to reflect the change in accounting for post
employment benefits
2 excluding profit on the sale of property in 2006 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 07
Status of businesses
During 2007, both ESAB and Howden continued to build
upon their market leadership positions, through commissioning
new factories, enhancing their product ranges and entering
new countries and regions. ESAB and Howden are continuing
the process of change and development that have been
implemented over the last five years, during which time ESAB
has significantly developed its presence in emerging markets
and Howden has redefined itself from being a manufacturer 
to being an applications engineer. 
In 2007, ESAB continued to focus on the creation of value
from its customer relationships, technology and manufacturing
facilities. ESAB’s markedly improved financial performance,
over recent years, has been made possible by operational
improvements which include positioning a significant part of 
its manufacturing capacity in low cost locations in Europe and
elsewhere, driving high levels of plant utilisation and increasing
the economic scale of operations. The shortfall in capital
expenditure that occurred whilst Charter was suffering from
excessively high levels of indebtedness has now been largely
remedied. Significant increases in capacity, which have been
underway since mid-2006, are due to complete by the middle
of this year. This new capacity is focused on high growth
products and is predominantly located in developing economies,
such as China, from where a significant amount of product is
now exported. We expect to undertake continued investment
in solid wire capacity, increased geographic coverage and also
in cost reduction programmes. The benefits of the Lean
initiative, which was launched in 2005, continued to grow 
in 2007. It is being expanded beyond manufacturing to other
areas of the business including logistics and administration. 
Within the ESAB welding business, the standard equipment
business grew significantly in 2007, with revenue up some 
15 per cent and margins improving towards our expectations.
The development of the business will take another significant
step forward later this year with the opening of the new
equipment factory in China. This will supply a middle market
range of welding equipment to customers in Asia. The cutting
and automation business recovered from the problems
reported in the first half, with an overall margin for the year 
of 8.9 per cent, and finished the year with record order books. 
During 2007, Howden grew sales by nearly 12 per cent to
£480.3 million. It also achieved a better balance in business
between Europe, North America, China and the rest of the
world; each of which accounted for around one-quarter of its
sales. In 2007 margins grew by 30 basis points compared to
2006. Sales to customers in Europe and North America grew
significantly during the year. We expect these sales to remain
strong in 2008. Despite the fall in sales to China during 2007,
it will remain a significant market for Howden.
The principal markets where Howden sells its fans, new 
build coal-fired power generating plant and emission control
equipment, remained strong. High levels of worldwide
investment in the oil and gas and petrochemical industries
were maintained during 2007 and Howden continues to 
focus on these sectors with both fans and compressors.
Howden’s compressor business made considerable progress
during 2007, with the successful integration of Howden
Compressors (in which we acquired the outstanding 51 per
cent shareholding in December 2006) and the opening of the
new compressor factory in China. Howden is pursuing other
areas where its compressor technology can be put to good
use. Wastewater treatment is perceived as a significant
opportunity given the growing water shortages in China and
many other countries.
During 2007, Howden successfully grew its aftermarket
business, with revenue and margins up 10.3 per cent and 
150 basis points respectively. The Chinese aftermarket
business progressed well during the year. It is ahead of plan
and we are focused on ensuring that Howden becomes 
a major force in the Chinese aftermarket. 
At 31 December 2007, Howden’s order book stood at 
£416.7 million, a record year-end level and an increase 
of 15.4 per cent compared to the end of 2006. It has
continued to grow in the first two months of 2008, and at the
end of February was a record, standing at over £500 million. 08 Charter plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s statement (continued)
Acquisitions and disposals
ESAB and Howden completed a number of acquisitions
during the year. The combined cost of these acquisitions, 
net of cash acquired, was some £25 million, details of which
are given in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
In July, ESAB acquired the business and assets of ATAS, 
a cutting technology company, and Air Liquide’s Argentine
welding business. ESAB also increased its stake in ESAB
India, the market leader in India, from 37.3 per cent to 
55.6 per cent. In October, ESAB completed the acquisition 
of Electrodi Ihtiman, the market leader for welding electrodes
in Bulgaria, which will give ESAB enhanced access to markets
in the Balkan region. 
In July, Howden acquired the outstanding 50 per cent
shareholding in its subsidiary, Bateman Howden South Africa
(Pty) Ltd, which designs and services gas cleaning systems used
in coal-fired power stations. Howden also disposed of its non-
core shareholding of 42 per cent in Pump Brands Pty Limited. 
Outlook
The outlook for both businesses remains positive. Demand 
for welding and cutting products is determined largely by
worldwide consumption of steel, which is expected to grow 
at around 5 per cent per year in the short to medium term.
Higher growth in demand from Brazil, Russia, India and China,
and other emerging economies is expected to more than
offset any slowdown in North America and Western Europe.
Process conversion (the move away from electrodes to
continuous processes) continues, particularly in emerging
markets. This results in stronger growth in demand for solid
and flux cored wires than for higher margin electrodes.
However, growth is expected in all product areas as market
consolidation takes place. The increased use of continuous
processes will mean more opportunity for ESAB’s welding
equipment, and the shortage of skilled welders is likely to
increase the opportunity for advanced automated solutions.
The outlook for end markets is further strengthened by 
major developments taking place in energy, oil and gas and
infrastructure around the world. The strong demand for ships
is being maintained with shipyards around the world heavily
loaded for the next few years.
A significant part of Howden’s business is the supply of
equipment to the electricity supply industry, most particularly
for use in coal-fired generating plant. As such, demand for
new Howden equipment is strongly influenced by the
construction of new coal-fired power stations. 
We expect that the worldwide construction of new electricity
generating capacity will continue at historic highs and with 
the continued high price of natural gas and concerns over
its future supply, as well as the on-going public debate over
nuclear power, we expect coal to continue to be seen as 
an attractive primary energy source. The International Energy
Agency (‘IEA’) predicts that the global coal-fired generating
capacity will almost double by 2030, implying a net annual
average addition of 57 GW of new plant per year. In China,
construction of new coal-fired generating capacity over this
period is expected to average 30 GW per year, which is more
than the UK’s entire present coal-fired generating capacity.
There is also some evidence to suggest that, in China, older
generating capacity will be replaced sooner than previously
expected. This underlines that China will remain an important
market for Howden. In other emerging economies, such as
India and Central and Eastern Europe, and in more mature
economies, such as Western Europe and North America, 
we expect increasing new build of coal-fired power plants,
accompanied by the refurbishment and upgrading of 
existing plant. 
Governmental regulations can also stimulate demand for a
number of Howden products, particularly in the environmental
protection sector, where Howden supplies equipment for use
in processes which reduce atmospheric pollution generated
by coal-fired power stations and industrial plant. Demand for
emission control products has been an important factor
behind the upturn in orders from customers in North America.
In the longer term the commercialisation of processes to
capture and store CO2 will provide an opportunity for Howden.
We expect increasing demand for Howden products from the
petrochemical and oil and gas industries. The high level of oil
prices seen during 2007 continues to stimulate investment,
particularly in the refining sector. We see major potential for
this sector going forward.
The power industry
The IEA forecasts that worldwide coal-fired electricity generating
capacity will almost double by 2030. This corresponds to an
average of 57 GW of net new capacity being added each year. 
Demand for electricity in China is expected to increase broadly 
in line with GDP growth. To meet this increasing demand, each
year on average, China is expected to add 30 GW of net
additional coal-fired generating capacity. China is therefore
expected to remain an important market for Howden.
In addition to the construction of new generating capacity, Howden
expects to benefit from ongoing programmes worldwide for the
retrofitting of emission control equipment to existing capacity.
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
2007 2015 2030
Europe North America China Rest of World
GW Charter plc Annual Report 2007 09
Howden has opened representative offices in both India and
Russia and remains optimistic about the prospects for these
two significant markets where future potential is high.
Charter’s strategy
Charter’s strategy is to deliver sustained growth in shareholder
value through the development of ESAB and Howden as
leaders in their respective fields.
A comprehensive review of strategy was undertaken during
2007 which was approved by the Board in September 2007.
This confirmed the potential for Charter to continue to make
significant progress in operating profit and earnings over the
next five years. 
The Board concluded that Charter should remain focused 
on its two businesses, both of which it believes are capable 
of further development and the creation of significant
additional value for shareholders.
ESAB will:
• enhance its market leadership through brand recognition,
new technology and enhanced customer service;
• act as a consolidator in the global welding industry, using
acquisitions to strengthen market positions, enter new
markets and improve its technology base;
• leverage its global footprint through establishing
manufacturing facilities in locations which best suit 
the needs of the market; and
• achieve growth through increasing volumes in 
developing markets and through range expansion,
especially into high-end technology products, 
in established developed markets.
Howden will:
• build upon its world-leading position as an applications
engineer, which designs, manufactures, installs and
maintains performance critical components for air and 
gas handling;
• maintain and enhance its position in all those regions where
there is expected to be significant new build of coal-fired
generating capacity and emission control equipment;
• develop further its position in the petrochemicals industry, 
in particular with compressors;
• enhance its presence in other industries where its
technology and expertise can be used to advantage; and
• continue to develop its aftermarket business, in particular
as recently installed equipment requires maintenance.
Current trading and prospects
As we progress through 2008, we see significant opportunities
for both ESAB and Howden arising from their global presence,
market leadership positions, their strong technology and flexible
cost bases, supported by Charter’s strengthened balance
sheet. There are positive long-term dynamics in key end-user
segments of both ESAB and Howden, such as power, oil and
gas, petrochemicals and shipbuilding. 
The current year has started well. Markets remain strong with
positive trends in both the mature markets of Europe and North
America and the emerging markets worldwide, with particular
strength in South America. The Board, therefore, views the
outlook for 2008 at this early stage of the year with confidence.
Michael Foster
Chief Executive
12 March 2008 
Charter’s strategy is to deliver sustained
growth in shareholder value through
the development of ESAB and Howden
as leaders in their respective fields.
