 14  Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2010
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
I am pleased to be providing this, my first Chief Executive 
Officer’s Report, on the back of another very positive year of 
further development for the Group. 
With our broad customer base, including almost all major woundcare 
companies, and our multiple routes to market, we continue to occupy 
an enviable position in the markets within which we operate. 
Enhanced by a combination of two strong emerging brands 
(LiquiBand® and ActivHeal®), and three major base technologies 
(fibres, foams and tissue adhesives), the potential for further growth 
remains significant.
Vision 
With an increasing range of Operating Room focused products now 
complementing our base woundcare dressings and Emergency Room 
products, AMS continues to benefit from having diverse and plentiful 
growth opportunities. As we continue the evolution of the Group, the 
vision is to strengthen our current position in each of the key focus 
areas, namely advanced woundcare dressings, tissue adhesives and 
surgical sealants, and ultimately become recognised as the preferred 
producer of innovative products and brands in the areas of:
Accelerating healing and managing wounds; • 
Minimising adverse surgical outcomes; and • 
Sealing and closing tissue. • 
2010 
Advanced Woundcare
Revenue from our advanced woundcare product range, aimed at 
accelerating healing and managing the complications of chronic 
wounds, increased 30% in 2010, with each of our key growth drivers 
contributing to the success. Sales of our silver alginate product range 
were up 19%, the ActivHeal® brand grew 21% and foam grew by 270%. 
Ongoing technical and clinical support for our silver alginate product 
range has continued to drive growth in our silver dressings business 
and has helped our partners capture a 20% market share in just five 
years, second only to the dominant market leader. 
With austerity measures at the forefront of NHS plans, our ActivHeal® 
brand continues to deliver real savings to the NHS without any 
compromise on clinical outcome or patient care. Following a re-launch 
of the product range in new, distinctive and easily recognisable 
packaging, we continue to make progress in establishing ActivHeal® as 
a product of first choice when it comes to cost effective dressing of 
non-infected wounds. 
With foam revenues benefiting from a number of new product 
launches with key partners in 2010, it is clear we have a very well 
accepted base technology from which to drive further organic growth 
through innovation and product differentiation.
The move into the new facility in Winsford was a considerable 
achievement and was successfully completed without severe 
disruption to operations as evidenced by the 11% like-for-like growth 
of the Advanced Woundcare business (excluding Corpura B.V.) during 
the construction period. The effort and commitment shown by 
everyone in the business cannot be underestimated. With the new 
site operational, management has taken the opportunity to embrace 
the principles of lean manufacturing, positioning the Group for 
improved future operational efficiency.
Research and Development has been focused on our new technology 
platform, foam, with the launch of new sizes and shapes and the 
development of composite dressings that elegantly combine different 
layers together in one dressing. Work has also progressed on our 
anti-biofilm product development programme and on our  
active dressings.
Wound Closure and Sealants
Our product range designed to seal and close tissue has also delivered 
strong growth to the Group in 2010. Revenues increased 42% to  
£6.7 million (2009: £4.7 million) with US market entry being a pivotal 
milestone for the business. 
We are very pleased with the progress from our first 12 months of 
promotional activity in the US. As was to be expected, a high number 
of clinical evaluations took place in 2010 as hospitals tried the 
LiquiBand® product for the first time. We are pleased with both the 
outcome of these evaluations and the speed with which a growing 
number of individual hospitals are converting to regular usage. Whilst 
we still have a significant major competitor to contend with, progress 
in our first year has exceeded our initial expectations. It is currently 
too early to say whether the second year of sales will follow the trend 
of our previous product launches and temporarily drop back before 
forging ahead again in year three.
We received regulatory approvals for LiquiBand® in both Canada and 
Japan during 2010, and our products have since been launched in 
both countries via local partners. Elsewhere, the regulatory process 
continues in a number of other markets.
An area for further improvement is the growth rate and sales 
performance for our devices aimed at minimising adverse surgical 
outcomes in the Operating Room. Progress with InteguSeal® through 
our marketing partner Kimberly Clark, has failed to meet both our and 
our partner’s original launch expectations and as such, one of our 
remaining strategic challenges is how we address the routes to market 
and sales success for our surgically orientated Operating Room 
product range. This is increasingly important given we received recent 
confirmation that our LiquiBand® Surgical ‘close and protect’ tissue 
sealant device has just been granted approval in the US.  15 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2010  
US Distribution
strategy
Cardinal Health (Acute Focus)
Complementary 
Regional Partner
(Acute Focus)
provides access to key 
acute accounts
Specialist Distribution Partner
provides logistic capabilities and direct 
order fulfilment for small centres and 
individual clinicians
Alternate Site Focus
largest US Pharmaceutical 
Distributor provides access to 
alternate site market 16  Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2010
Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued
We are now working with key surgeons to design the ideal delivery 
system for this surgical device and expect to launch this into the 
market in late 2011, which then gives us a product range covering 
100% of the target market.
Strategy
Our strategy has four key elements: 
Maximising the value of Group brands; • 
Strengthening our commitment to support partners and develop • 
innovative woundcare products;
Improving our ability to generate growth from our Operating Room • 
product range; and
Supplementing organic growth through further licensing and • 
acquisition activity.
Brand building
We have already taken steps to enhance and simplify our corporate 
identity, both for major customers and employees. We have rebranded 
our two acquired businesses, Medlogic Global and Corpura B.V.,  
with all our businesses now trading under the Advanced Medical 
Solutions name. 
Given the potential impact of success with LiquiBand® in the US 
market, and ActivHeal® in our domestic UK market, developing 
excellence in brand management is now a very focused part of our 
plan and we aim to strengthen our support of these brands:
LiquiBand® • , our ongoing advertising and marketing investment 
will be enhanced through a series of clinical studies to support our 
marketing claims and product positioning; and
ActivHeal® • , our rebrand has been well received and we will invest 
further in case studies and technical support to ensure the benefits 
of what the range can deliver to the NHS in terms of potential 
savings is better understood by all healthcare providers.
Commitment to support partners and develop innovative 
woundcare products
We remain committed to the development of leading edge 
technology and products and to working with strategic partners and 
major brands to commercialise them worldwide. Continuing 
investment in R&D will help us to deliver new product platforms such 
as differentiated polyurethane foams and active dressings to address 
the unmet clinical needs of chronic wounds. We will also be continuing 
to invest in clinical papers to support superiority claims for our silver 
alginate products versus the market leader and, in doing so, assist our 
multiple partners in capturing market share.
 
Our investment in our operational capability provides further evidence 
of our long term commitment to our woundcare partners. 
Enhanced ability to generate growth from our Operating 
Room product range
With opportunities for our Operating Room product range increasing, 
and internal applications for our tissue adhesives potentially emerging 
out of R&D in the next 12-18 months, finding the right way to 
successfully access the Operating Room market is a high priority for 
the management team and remains a key challenge.
Supplement organic growth through further licensing and 
acquisition activity
The acquisition and integration of Corpura B.V. has successfully 
provided an additional technology platform from which to drive 
growth within the foam market, the largest and fastest growing 
segment of advanced woundcare. Foam has already delivered 
significant value to the Group in 2010 and, given our position in the 
market, any similar woundcare technology acquisition would provide 
equal growth potential. In addition, we will continue to look for 
synergistic businesses that allow us to leverage our enviable customer 
base, bring new technologies or additional brands to complement our 
existing product range, and distribution opportunities to help us 
overcome the Operating Room challenge.
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
20 April 2011
