 12  Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2010
Business Review
Chairman's Statement
AMS has a unique position in the advanced 
woundcare market. Our comprehensive 
range of material technologies with strong 
intellectual property allow us to provide our 
global woundcare partners with a breadth 
of product applications second to none.
I am delighted to inform investors that 2010 was an outstanding 
year in which AMS continued to make excellent progress in 
building a major global medical device business. In addition to 
delivering strong revenue and profit growth, a number of key 
commercial and operational milestones, designed to fuel future 
growth, were achieved in the year.
Financial Highlights
Group revenue was up 32% to £31.9 million, profit from operations 
before exceptional items was up 31% to £5.3 million, and profit from 
operations after exceptional items was up 81% to £4.3 million.
The business continues to generate strong levels of cash at the 
operational level, with net cash inflow from operations before 
exceptional items up 116% to £8.1 million. Net cash inflow from 
operations after exceptional items was up 244% to £7.1 million. Even 
after further investment in the new Winsford facility, plant and 
equipment and paying the final deferred consideration for the 
acquisition of Corpura B.V., net funds at year end were up 129% to  
£3.9 million. 
Key Achievements
Entry into the key $220 million US topical skin adhesive market with 
our LiquiBand® tissue adhesive has been a pivotal milestone for the 
Group. Whilst we were confident of success due to the positive 
competitive performance of this product range in Europe over many 
years, the level of interest, clinical evaluations and subsequent initial 
product uptake in our first full year of US sales has exceeded our 
expectations. We are well placed to continue to grow our US market 
share and to build a strong global brand for our LiquiBand® business. 
In Advanced Woundcare, our silver alginate range, our foam based 
wound dressings and our ActivHeal® value range have also continued 
to make good progress. The successful integration of Corpura B.V. has 
bolstered our position in polyurethane foam, the largest, fastest 
growing segment of the advanced woundcare market. 
Our new world-class Winsford facility, officially opened in January 
2011, provides the Group with the capacity to support substantially 
increased revenues, whilst addressing the ever more stringent 
demands being placed on medical device companies by the various 
regulatory authorities. It also provides opportunities to enhance 
margins as the benefits of the new facility and investment in new 
equipment are realised. 
Board
A number of Board changes were made during the year. 
I stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and became Chairman of 
the Group, as of 1 January 2011.
Chris Meredith was appointed as Chief Executive Officer effective from  
1 January 2011. Having joined AMS in July 2005 as Commercial 
Director, Chris was appointed to the Board in April 2006, became 
Managing Director of Advanced Woundcare in 2008 and then Chief 
Operating Officer of the Group in January 2010. 
Dr. Geoffrey Vernon retired as Chairman at the end of 2010. The 
Board would like to thank Geoffrey for his input and guidance in 
helping to make AMS the successful company that it is today. We wish 
him all the best for the future. 
In March 2010, Penny Freer joined the Board as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, and Steve Harris stepped down from the 
Board at the AGM in June 2010. The Board would like to thank Steve  
for his significant contribution to AMS during his nine years as a 
Non-Executive Director. 
Dividends
As previously indicated, the Board will recommend the introduction of a 
maiden final dividend relating to the 2010 results. Whilst AMS’s focus 
remains on capital growth, the Board feels it is appropriate to propose a 
dividend, given the cash generative nature of the business and to reflect 
the stage of the Group’s development. The proposed maiden final 
dividend will be 0.38p per share which will be paid on 10 June 2011 to 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 13 May 2011.
Employees
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders, I would like to thank 
all AMS employees for their considerable efforts in delivering our 2010 
results, and for all their contribution in helping us to move into our 
new facility with so little disruption. 
Outlook
I am pleased to report that 2011 has started well for the Group with 
both our leading brands, LiquiBand® and ActivHeal®, continuing to 
perform strongly. We also continue to see growing demand from our 
partners for our foam and silver alginate products.
In addition to the positive prospects for our organic business, our 
continued investment in R&D and our strong balance sheet allows  
us to refresh and broaden the product range and technology base,  
as well as evaluate opportunities to strengthen our distribution in  
key markets.
Overall, the outlook for the Group remains very positive.
Dr. Don Evans
Chairman
20 April 2011
Dr. Don Evans
Chairman 13 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2010  
Our new spinning-line, Winsford, Cheshire
