 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009    05
Chairman’s statement
Our  businesses Directors’  and  other  reports Financial  statements Other  information
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to be able to report that, despite 
the very challenging economic and financial 
conditions which prevailed during 2009, Charter 
traded profitably through the year and generated 
increased operating cash flow. This was largely 
due to the strength of its businesses and the 
speed with which they were able to respond to 
the change in trading conditions. Full details 
of Charter’ s results are presented on the 
following pages.
The Company announced on 19 February 2010 
that it had launched an investigation into possible 
irregular payments that may have been made in 
connection with an attempt to obtain business by 
an overseas Howden subsidiary in an emerging 
market. This came to light during an internal review 
of another matter that has been satisfactorily 
resolved. 
The Company has now completed its investigation 
into all matters of which it became aware. There is 
no clear evidence of any improper payments 
having been made although the relevant 
authorities have been notified where, on advice, 
this has been considered appropriate. We are 
absolutely committed to maintaining high ethical 
standards of business practice, and we expect the 
same from our employees, agents and others with 
whom we transact business. Steps are being 
taken to reinforce our existing compliance 
programmes to ensure these standards are 
maintained.
Board changes
During the year, there have been a number of 
Board changes.
We were delighted to welcome Manfred 
Wennemer who was appointed as a Non-
Executive Director with effect from 26 March 
2009. Until recently, he was Chief Executive of 
Continental AG, the international manufacturer of 
tyres and equipment for the automotive and 
transport industry.
James Bruce stood down as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee at the Company’ s 
Annual General Meeting in April 2009. I am sure 
that Shareholders will join me and the rest of the 
Board in thanking James for his contribution and 
wishing him well for the future. Grey Denham has 
replaced him as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
There have also been some changes amongst 
the responsibilities of the Executive Directors. 
In order to more closely manage the restructuring 
of ESAB and its response to the economic 
downturn, Michael Foster took direct 
responsibility for ESAB in April 2009. James 
Deeley, previously Legal Director, became the 
Company’ s Commercial Director with effect 
from 26 March 2009, and in April also took on 
responsibility for ESAB’ s Standard Equipment, 
Automation and Cutting activities.
On 21 October 2009, Michael Hampson joined 
Charter as Company Secretary and General 
Counsel.
Dividend
In recognition of the Company’ s robust 
performance during 2009, its strong balance 
sheet and our confidence that both ESAB and 
Howden will make further progress in 2010, the 
Board has declared a second interim dividend of 
14.5 pence per share, increasing the total 
dividend in respect of 2009 to 21.5 pence. This 
compares with the total dividend of 21.0 pence 
per share which was paid in respect of 2008. 
It is anticipated that the dividend will be paid on 
7 May 2010 to holders of ordinary shares 
registered on 16 April 2010.
Going forwards, the Board will look to maintain 
and grow the dividend in a way which reflects the 
overall performance of the Company and the 
general economic and financial conditions in the 
principal markets in which the Company and its 
subsidiaries operate.
Concluding comments
The Board’ s review of the Company’ s strategy 
confirmed that Charter will continue to focus on the 
development of ESAB and Howden as a means of 
generating long-term value for shareholders. A key 
part of this will be to maintain Charter’ s financial 
strength, which will allow it to continue to invest in 
the growth of the businesses and, where the 
opportunity arises, to make acquisitions. 
The Board remains confident that the Company 
will make further progress in 2010 and that the 
long-term prospects of both businesses and the 
industries in which they operate remain strong.
Lars Emilson 
Chairman 
23 March 2010
“ The total dividend has been 
increased to 21.5 pence 
per share.”
