 Charter International plc
Annual Report 2010 04
Chairman’s statement
“ The total dividend  
in respect of 2010 is  
23 pence per share, an 
increase of 7 per cent.”
Lars Emilson
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that in 2010 Charter achieved improved 
results with revenue, adjusted operating proﬁt and adjusted 
earnings per share all well ahead of 2009. 
A particular feature of the year was the divergence in the 
performance of different regions and industries. Despite the 
success that Charter has had in growing its businesses globally, 
Europe remains the region where most proﬁt is generated.  
Here, conditions were mixed and while some countries and 
industries performed well, others remained in recession which 
undoubtedly impacted Charter’s overall performance in the year. 
It is by no means certain how quickly there will be a more 
general return to economic growth across all the regions  
in which Charter operates, and we are very aware that the 
economies and ﬁnancial systems in Europe and across  
the world remain vulnerable to further shocks. 
The Board believes that the continuation of the measures  
taken by the Company in recent years to strengthen and 
improve its businesses are crucial to its ability to grow 
proﬁtability in the future. Key parts of this are to invest in 
efﬁcient plants and systems, to continue a strong research  
and product development programme and to make selective 
acquisitions where there are opportunities to do so. 
For these reasons, the Board believes that Charter should  
seek to maintain the balance sheet strength which has been 
successfully built up in recent years and which continued in 
2010, so that at the end of the year, shareholders’ funds stood 
at £636 million, an increase of £86 million during the year. 
The Board pays close attention to the Company’ s funding position. 
At 31 December 2010, net cash stood at £2 million. The net cash 
outﬂow for the year of £49 million reﬂects the re-absorption of cash 
into working capital as ESAB’ s business recovered, as well as 
capital expenditure and the payment of dividends to shareholders. 
It is a strategic objective to tighten ESAB’ s working capital whilst 
continuing to grow its revenue and proﬁt.
Shareholder value and dividend
The Board’s review of the Company’s strategy conﬁrmed that 
Charter will continue to focus on the development of both 
ESAB and Howden as a means of generating long-term  
value for shareholders.
The Board recognises that an important component of 
shareholder value is the dividend paid to the Company’s 
shareholders. 
In recognition of the Company’s improved performance in 
2010, the Board has declared an increased second interim 
dividend of 15.5 pence per share (2009: 14.5 pence per  
share), making a total dividend in respect of 2010 of 23 pence 
per share (2009: 21.5 pence per share), an increase of 7 per 
cent. It is anticipated that the dividend will be paid on 6 May 
2011 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 15 April 2011.
Going forward, the Board intends to continue to grow the dividend 
in a way that reﬂects the overall performance of the Company and 
the general economic and ﬁnancial conditions in the principal 
markets in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate.
Corporate governance
We assessed the performance and effectiveness of the Board 
and its Committees during the year and action was taken to 
address the key points coming out of the review.
Corporate governance is monitored by the Board on an 
ongoing basis to ensure the policies and procedures we have  
in place continue to be effective and appropriate and that key 
risks are kept under review. In 2010 we updated our policies  
on anti-bribery and corruption and whistleblowing and reissued 
our Code of Conduct and equal opportunity policy. 
I am very pleased to note that we have seen further good 
progress in our health and safety performance. On the 
environmental side, the beneﬁts from the projects we have 
undertaken to improve environmental efﬁciency are now being 
seen in the business.
Employees
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I would like to thank 
all Charter’s employees for their hard work and the contribution 
they made to the Company in the year. I continue to be 
impressed with the quality and dedication of the people we 
have in our businesses around the world. 
Concluding comments
By focusing on proﬁt and cash generation, and through 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, the Board believes that the 
Company has the opportunity to make further progress in 2011 
in what is likely to continue to be an uncertain economic and 
ﬁnancial environment.
Lars Emilson
Chairman
17 February 2011
