 I am pleased to report another year of significant progress. We have 
again delivered strong revenue and profit growth, and 2011 concluded 
with the acquisition of RESORBA®, a long established, profitable 
woundcare and wound closure business headquartered in Germany.
As the acquisition completed on 22 December 2011, RESORBA® had 
no effect on the 2011 trading results but impacted the 2011 
income statement in relation to £1.8 million of exceptional costs 
incurred in respect of the transaction.
Financial highlights
Group revenue was up 8% to £34.4 million, profit from operations 
before exceptional items was up 20% to £6.4 million, and pre-tax profit 
before exceptional items was up 21% to £6.4 million.
We have again produced strong levels of operating cash, with a net 
cash inflow from operations (pre-exceptional items) of £5.5 million. 
Following the acquisition of RESORBA® in December 2011, which was 
financed by a well-received placing and a new term loan, we ended 
2011 with net debt of £13.4 million. 
Key business achievements
We have seen further gains across all areas of our Advanced 
Woundcare business, including ActivHeal® where the combined 
offering of quality products with significant cost savings for the NHS 
continue to drive strong sales growth. Our foam products are also 
seeing sustained, significant growth.
In Wound Closure and Sealants, we are very pleased with the 
continued progress of LiquiBand® in the US. All too often, new 
product launches see a reduction in second year sales after the 
initial surge of evaluations and trials settles down. However, we have 
been able to sustain a level of ex-factory sales that was broadly 
similar to 2010 and, with end market sales up three-fold year-on-
year, we believe we have a platform for strong growth this year.
Our new Winsford facility was officially opened at the beginning of 
2011 and we can confirm that our target of achieving a minimum 
2% gross margin improvement in Advanced Woundcare by the end 
of calendar 2013 is well on track.
Dividend
AMS remains strongly cash generative and we remain confident in 
our ability to continue paying dividends on a progressive basis. Given 
the Group’s strong performance in 2011 and the Board’s confidence 
in the medium to long term prospects for the Group, the proposed 
final dividend will be 0.305p per share, making a total dividend for 
the year of 0.45p per share, an 18% increase on 2010. If approved at 
the Annual General Meeting on 12 June 2012, this will be paid on 15 
June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
18 May 2012. 
Employees
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders, I would like to thank AMS 
employees for all their hard work last year. I would also like to welcome 
all RESORBA® employees to the Group.
Outlook
We continue to be confident about the prospects for our existing 
business, with the outlook for LiquiBand® and ActivHeal® being 
especially encouraging. 2012 has started well and it is also pleasing 
to report that the silver alginate partner that had previously been 
de-stocking has now returned to previous order patterns.
The acquisition of RESORBA® at the end of 2011 provides us with 
further commercial opportunities and more direct control of our 
sales channels. Integration is proceeding well and RESORBA® is 
expected to be earnings per share enhancing in its first full year. 
2012 promises to be a pivotal year for us with over half of our 
revenue now expected to be generated from our own brands. We 
are very positive about the future prospects of the Group.
Dr. Don Evans
Chairman
27 April 2012
10 11 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011
201 1 was another year of strong revenue 
and profit growth for AMS. Prospects for 
201 2 look good and we look forward to the 
future with considerable optimism.
Dr. Don Evans
Chairman
Business Review 
Chairman’s Statement Company Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
10 11 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011
The recent acquisition of RESORBA® represents a 
significant milestone for the Group. It provides us with 
further commercial opportunities and more 
direct control of our sales channels.
