 12 13 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
I am delighted to report that, during my first 
year as Chief Executive Officer, AMS has 
achieved further strong organic growth.  
Our broadened range of foam woundcare 
products has performed strongly, ActivHeal® 
has had another outstanding year and 
LiquiBand® has performed well, both in the 
US and in other markets.
This time last year, I set out my vision for AMS together with an overview 
of the strategy we have put in place to build a significant, global medical 
devices business. The key parts of the strategy that I outlined were to 
build on our brand portfolio, to increase our penetration of the 
Operating Room, and to supplement organic growth through further 
licensing and acquisition activities.
We had expected to progress these aims through several steps over a 
number of years but the acquisition of RESORBA® in December 2011 has 
enabled us to address many key elements in a single deal. Amongst 
other benefits, we now have direct access to the Operating Room 
segment in Europe’s largest surgical market (Germany), additional 
technologies that we can leverage into other markets using our 
regulatory and global distribution expertise, and a greatly enhanced 
own-brand portfolio that significantly increases the Group’s direct 
control over its sales channels.
2011
Advanced Woundcare
Revenues from our Advanced Woundcare range of products increased 
by 10% in 2011 to £27.7 million (2010: £25.2 million). This compares 
very favourably with advanced woundcare market growth rates which 
are generally estimated to have been less than 3% in 2011. 
We have continued to provide technical and clinical support to our silver 
alginate product partners, and the growth in the US that we reported at 
the interims has continued. However, the de-stocking by one major 
partner in the UK and Europe that we previously highlighted did 
continue in the second half of 2011 and has only recently started to 
unwind. Nevertheless, overall, our partners’ global market share 
continues to close the gap to the market leader. 
We are seeing clear benefits from the capital investment in our medical 
foam plant in the Netherlands, which has not only increased capacity 
but will also enable us to further develop our foam technology base. A 
number of new foam product designs were launched in 2011, and these 
will be supplemented later this year by the launch of a major upgrade to 
our foam product range, involving trilaminate dressings.
Our strategy of increasingly focusing on higher margin business 
across the Group means that sales of some lower margin woundcare 
products were down in 2011, and this trend will continue to some 
extent in 2012. Partly offsetting these reductions were a number of 
new customer launch orders for roll stock foam. 
The attractions of our ActivHeal® range of products continue to 
resonate within the NHS with its combined messages of cost-savings 
without any compromise to clinical outcome or patient care. The 
rebrand in late 2010 has helped to successfully establish ActivHeal® 
Business Review 
Chief Executive’s Statement Company Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
12 13 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011
as a product of first choice for an increasing number of nurses. All of 
these factors combined to deliver an impressive performance in 2011. 
2011 was the first full year of operations at the Winsford facility and  
I am particularly pleased by the seamless transition and by the clear 
efficiency and margin benefits that we are already seeing.
Wound Closure and Sealants 
Overall Wound Closure and Sealants revenues were flat at £6.7 million 
(2010: £6.7 million).
2010 saw the first 12 months of LiquiBand® sales in the US and we were 
delighted to have achieved a volume market share of 5% by the end of 
that year. It is, however, fair to say that, notwithstanding the extremely 
positive response from end-users, we were cautious about 2011 as many 
new product launches see a dip in their second year when the numbers 
of evaluations and trials naturally decrease after the initial surge. 
We are therefore very pleased to report that LiquiBand® revenues in the 
US in 2011 were largely unchanged from the year before, reflecting not 
only the absolute and comparative quality of our products but also their 
price competitiveness against the market leader. All of these factors 
have led to a large proportion of evaluation and trial sales being 
followed up with firm orders, and end-user sales increased over 
threefold in 2011 compared with 2010. As a result, LiquiBand® now has a 
full year market volume share of 5% in the US hospital market and 8% in 
the non-hospital or alternative site market.
In our other markets, 2011 was another good year for LiquiBand®, with 
non-US revenues up 13%. We have maintained our market-leading 
positions in the UK and Europe Emergency Room, and our partners in 
both Canada and Japan are gradually gaining a position in those 
markets, albeit at small levels. 
As we have previously flagged, sales of InteguSeal®, through our 
marketing partner Kimberly-Clark, have been disappointing but they 
only account for about 1% of total revenues.
Research & Development
A key focus of our in-house R&D last year was on our new foam 
technology platform. We launched a number of new sizes and shapes in 
2011, which have been well received, and we will shortly be launching a 
total range upgrade, involving modern, market leading, three-layer 
(trilaminate) dressings.
Our development work with Sinclair IS Pharma on their Delmopinol® 
‘anti-biofilm’ technology is continuing. Results so far confirm its potential 
efficacy in breaking down biofilms in chronic wounds but there is still 
more work to do. Nevertheless, we remain optimistic that, subject to no 
unforeseen or insurmountable issues being identified, a first product 
could be ready for launch in 2013.
Our development agreement with Surgical Innovations on a 
laparoscopic device for delivering adhesive internally has moved on 
apace, and we now have a working prototype device that takes our 
internal adhesive programme a step nearer to market launch, which we 
are still targetting for 2013 in Europe.
Outlook
The acquisition of RESORBA® has key strategic benefits on a number of 
fronts, including:
• substantially increasing our own-brand portfolio, giving us far more 
direct control over our own sales channels whilst improving our gross 
margins;
• acquiring a direct sales force focused on the operating room which 
gives us an in-house distribution channel for our growing portfolio 
of surgically focused products, including InteguSeal®, a number of 
LiquiBand® products, our internal adhesive programme (when it 
launches) and a range of surgical dressings that are in plan to develop;
• adding a number of RESORBA® products (e.g. sutures) and 
technologies (e.g. collagen) where we expect to be able to use our 
regulatory expertise to gain relevant approvals in the US and 
elsewhere, and distribute through our global partner base;
• adding a new opportunity in dental/oral surgery where we have 
already begun the process of preparing for regulatory approval for 
LiquiBand®; and
• giving us increasing leverage in targeting customers, both via partners 
and directly, with our significantly expanded product portfolio.
All of these are in line with our previously stated strategic aims and, 
although we have much to do to fully integrate RESORBA®, we are 
excited about the additional opportunities we now have to accelerate 
the growth of AMS.
Advanced Woundcare
All indications are that ActivHeal® will continue its strong progress in 
2012 and, with the launch of a trilaminate range of foam products later 
this year, we also anticipate further significant sales improvement in this 
segment. We are confident that this upgrade will move us up the value 
curve, while bringing the added future benefit of being an excellent 
delivery system for a number of actives. 
In our silver alginate range, prospects in the US continue to be good, the 
de-stocking we saw last year in Europe and the UK has ended, and we 
are optimistic about the prospects for a number of product upgrades 
we expect to launch through our partners. 
However, with an increasing emphasis on the higher margin products in 
our woundcare business, we anticipate further falls in revenue from some 
lower margin products. We would also not expect the level of foam 
roll-stock launch orders we received in 201 1 to be repeated in 2012. 14 15 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2011
With the new woundcare products that we now have from RESORBA®, 
together with the  trilaminate range of foam products that we plan to 
launch later this year, and the continuing efficiency benefits of the 
Winsford site, we are confident that our overall woundcare profitability 
will improve.
Wound Closure and Sealants
In the US adhesive market, there have been a number of developments 
in recent months involving initiatives by both AMS and others which 
were to be expected. We are confident that our overall competitive 
position remains unaffected and we continue to be very optimistic 
about our ability to increase our share of this key market:
• The US market leader launched a new closure product at the end of 
2011 which now involves a single application but still has a much 
longer setting time than LiquiBand®. Whilst somewhat later than 
anticipated we had always expected this competitive response to 
the arrival of LiquiBand® in the US market but we remain confident of 
the continuing technical superiority and price competitiveness of our 
product for wound closure. 
• Given the significant market opportunity and the competition’s 
increasing focus on the liquid bandage application for tissue 
adhesives, we launched LiquiBand® Flex into the US market at the 
beginning of 2012. This addition to our range meets the need for a 
protective, anti-microbial liquid bandage, to ‘paint’ over wounds that 
have been closed by sutures or staples, expanding our offering and 
strengthening our competitive position.
• Two major distributors have recently launched or are about to launch 
their own liquid bandage products based on existing technology 
they have licensed in. One of these has been available for a few years 
in the US market under its original brand and was ‘re-launched’ in 
2011 under the distributor’s own brand. The other, involving one of 
our partners, has not yet launched but is expected to do so this year. 
Notwithstanding these developments, we are as confident of the 
technical superiority and price competitiveness of LiquiBand® Flex as 
we are of our other LiquiBand® wound closure products. It is too 
early for market data to record the level of initial LiquiBand® Flex sales 
but initial responses from users have been very positive.
• As part of our strategy to increase our penetration of the operating 
room, and maximise value through retained ownership of the 
brand, we have expanded on our strategy to target the surgical 
segment of the US adhesive market by establishing partnerships 
with a number of smaller, specialised regional distributors whose 
sales teams have an operating room focus. We have already 
established four such relationships with distributors for LiquiBand® 
Flex and we expect to add a few more in the coming months to 
complete our US geographic access. We believe this approach will 
not only deliver greater control and higher margins but should also 
enable us to channel more of our products through this more 
specialised route in the future as our surgically focused product  
list increases.
In a similar vein but on a direct basis, we have also established a small 
UK team of our own surgically focused sales representatives who will 
take direct responsibility for promoting LiquiBand® surgical products, 
together with RESORBA®’s range of surgical sutures and collagen-
based dressings.
Outside our existing markets, we have started the process of getting 
regulatory approval for LiquiBand® in China and are in early stage 
discussions with potential partners. We expect to use RESORBA®’s 
expertise to initiate the same process in Russia. 
In relation to InteguSeal®, we remain confident about its potential and 
we continue to investigate options for delivering this product more 
effectively to the market. In this regard, we now have a direct surgically 
focused sales channel that we can exploit in Germany through 
RESORBA® and we hope to advise on other initiatives during 2012.
Licensing and Acquisitions
While the acquisition of RESORBA® is a significant transaction that will 
take time to fully integrate, and we are focused on this, we will continue 
to examine other acquisition opportunities which would add value to 
our overall business. We also continue to evaluate complementary 
technology licensing opportunities, particularly in woundcare, where we 
can take advantage of our innovation and manufacturing expertise.
Prospects for 2012
AMS has been significantly enhanced by the acquisition of RESORBA® at 
the end of 2011. Integration is progressing well and we are excited about 
the potential that RESORBA®’s operating room access brings for a 
number of our existing products, together with a range of their brands 
and technologies that we intend to leverage across our global 
distribution channels. RESORBA® also produces a significant shift in our 
business mix, where more than half of our revenues will now come from 
direct sales of our own brands.
2012 has started well across all our existing businesses and we are 
confident of achieving another year of strong progress.
Chris Meredith 
Chief Executive Officer
27 April 2012
Business Review 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
