 Revenue by practice 2004 2003
Retail, manufacturing
& services 39% 29%
Financial services & media 31% 49%
Government, legal, 
utilities & energy 30% 22%
2004     2003
Chief Executive’s review
This has been a year of achievement for
Charteris. Emerging from the difficult
trading conditions of the previous financial
year, the business has demonstrated good
growth with improved profitability in what
has remained a tight market. 
This year we have built important new
client relationships, delivered major new
sales and developed a range of tailored
propositions for our target markets. Our
strategy of focused investment in market
sector development has been key to this
strong performance. 
The overall market for our area of
consulting services is generally reported to be
showing slow growth. However, there has
been an increased propensity to invest where
robust business cases can be established.
As a result we have seen the emergence of
opportunities in a number of specific market
areas and it is into those areas that we have
carefully and successfully concentrated our
business development activities. 
Market sector concentration
In a competitive market for consulting
services the companies that stand out
are those that grasp the business context
in which their clients are operating,
develop a complete understanding of their
business needs, and deliver a rapid and
comprehensive response to those needs.
Charteris is achieving this through the
continued development of our three
consulting practices. These practices are
carefully positioned to connect with and
respond to sector-specific opportunities,
as well as to widen the reach of the
company’s services in business consulting,
project management and technology. 
This strategy has led to a broadening and
balancing of the Group’s business base,
as can be seen from the analysis of revenue
by practice.
Revenue from our retail, manufacturing
and services practice grew by 53%
compared with the financial year ended
31 July 2003 (2002/03). In the retail sector,
the practice has further strengthened its
position through several new client
relationships, alongside the development of
existing ones. Our programme and project
management services have featured strongly
in this sector, with Business Intelligence
and Business Integration becoming
increasingly important focus areas. In
manufacturing an important contributor
was the major contract awarded by KCI
International early in 2003/04 for
implementation of a new ERP solution
across fifteen countries. 
Charteris’ reputation as experts in the
enterprise application of leading-edge
Microsoft technologies continues to grow
as we demonstrate to an ever-increasing
number of clients how these technologies
can make a difference in their businesses.
Microsoft now lists Charteris as one of
only nine companies who are “specialist
partners” in Enterprise Integration. 
Our project activities in the services sector
this year have involved us in the application
of advanced technologies to such areas as
legacy billing and administration platforms.
We believe that this experience will position
us well for attractive market opportunities
in the future. 
In the finance sector we have made good
progress in expanding into new accounts
whilst maintaining our long standing client
relationships. Midway through 2002/03
two major projects came to a successful
conclusion. This meant that in a finance
market which was still under pressure, as
we entered 2003/04 our rate of month-by-
month revenue was considerably reduced.
Over the year we increased revenues
significantly to £2.3m in the second half
of 2003/04 (2002/03 H2: £1.1m, 2003/04
H1: £2.0m). 
We have seen steady growth throughout
the year in our business consulting and
project management services, and strong
demand for our technology skill set.
Charteris Annual Report 2004
4 accreditation we achieved this year, and
through the prestigious awards won by
members of our technical team.
There is no substitute for experience – no
short cuts. In expanding our pool of very
experienced people this year we have
continued to devote considerable resources
to recruitment. Our selection processes are
very demanding and we are delighted to
find that people with impressive
capabilities and experience are being
attracted to join Charteris.
My thanks to everyone in Charteris for
their tremendously hard work in making
this year’s achievements a reality.
Business outlook
The achievements of this year provide us
with a sound platform upon which to
build in the execution of the next stage of
our strategy. Central to this strategy is our
commitment to our clients’ success and the
delivery of their business goals. As we
continue to grow, and expand further our
capacity to help solve clients’ business
problems we will ensure that we maintain
the flexibility, responsiveness and depth of
experience that are the hallmarks of
Charteris services.
David Pickering
Chief Executive
4 October 2004
“
The achievements of this year provide
us with a sound platform upon which to
build in the execution of the next stage of
our strategy. Central to this strategy is our
commitment to our clients’ success and
the delivery of their business goals.
”
New clients have been an important
factor in this. These include Butterfield
Bank where we are managing a major
core banking business change programme,
and HBOS financial services where we
are providing mentoring and technical
development services. 
The development of targeted propositions
to the finance market has also had a
marked effect on business development.
Our Portfolio Management offering which
is designed to help organisations prioritise
contending business initiatives within the
framework of their development budgets
has been well received. 
In recent months we were delighted to
be selected by the consortium led by
Australia’s largest investment bank,
Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund
to support them in a major new
infrastructure initiative in the UK.
Our government, legal, utilities and energy
practice continues to develop well, growing
by 52% compared with the previous
financial year. Our focus on National
Security and Law Enforcement has led to
an increasing number and variety of
assignments in this area. Our work with
the Cabinet Office has been a notable
contributor this year. National Security is
a market that draws on a particularly
wide range of our competencies, from
programme management using MSP
(Managing Successful Programmes) and
information security, through to technical
architecture and service management.
Charteris’ technical capability, particularly
with Microsoft .NET , has differentiated us
strongly as client-side advisers, enabling our
clients to accelerate the delivery of business
benefit within major change programmes.
We have continued to expand our work
in the health sector through engagement
on a number of NHS programmes. Over
the year we have worked in the National
Programme for IT, the Electronic Staff
Records project and the Payment by
Results initiative. We are also involved
at the interface between Primary Care
Trusts and Local Authority Social Care
Departments on the Single Assessment
Process and Integrated Children’s
Services initiatives.
Once again this year the services we
provide to the legal sector have featured
prominently. We have been instructed as
expert witnesses in commercial disputes by
a number of leading law firms. We have
also applied our strong commercial skills in
providing independent advice to clients in
the public and energy and utilities sectors
on the procurement and management of
complex IT-related service contracts.
The Charteris team
This year’s many achievements and
the return to growth and improved
profitability that these achievements
have delivered stand testament to the
commitment and dedication of
everyone in the Charteris team. 
In winning business, often in competition
with the largest consulting firms it has
been the credibility and quality of our
people that has again marked Charteris
out. It is therefore particularly gratifying 
to see this quality being recognised
formally through the ISO 9001 quality
5 “
The innovative and award-winning work
we have performed this year demonstrates the
considerable progress of the practice. The
relationships we have built and the initiatives
we have launched provide a firm foundation
for further major growth.
”
Our clients
Alstom Automation
Argos Retail Group
ASDA
AutoCascade
Bovis Lend Lease
British American Tobacco
British Computer Society
BULL Information Systems
Hewlett Packard 
IRIS Software
Jarvis Systems & Technologies
John Lewis Partnership
KCI International
Maersk Sealand
Marks & Spencer
Microsoft
Meyer International 
Patsystems
Portal Software
QSA
Sainsbury’s
Tesco
Practice operating review
Retail, manufacturing & services
During the past year we have performed
innovative work for clients across all of
our sectors, completing many complex,
large-scale projects that include some
of the most advanced solutions delivered
within our industry. In addition, we
have successfully launched several key
initiatives which will ensure the long
term success of the business. 
In the retail sector, we began engagements
with a number of new high-profile
organisations and strengthened long-
standing relationships with existing clients.
Key new clients included two major high
street retailers where we provided advanced
project and programme management skills.
These activities have enabled us to double
our revenue in the UK retail market. Our
strategy is to continue to seek new clients
within our target retail markets whilst
deepening our relationships with existing
clients, helping them to enhance their
business performance and maximise the
return on their investment in IT.
In the manufacturing sector, our recent
ERP project with KCI International, the
global manufacturer of medical devices,
is close to completion of the design and
build phase. We are now working to
enable the organisation to implement the
solution across the 15 countries in which
they operate. This major implementation
project began as an assignment to develop
an IT strategy to underpin the growth 
of their business. This relationship
demonstrates the ability of Charteris to
work across the spectrum from conception
through to completion. It also confirms
our capability to deliver enterprise
solutions in the manufacturing and
distribution sectors. This capability is at
the heart of our strategy of delivering
company-wide business integration and
transformation projects for our clients. 
Our relationship with Microsoft has gone
from strength to strength. We are currently
working with Microsoft on five major
projects across a range of market sectors and
have broadened our services to provide a
combination of technical, business and
project management consultants. In areas
such as .NET , BizT alk and SQL Server we
are now considered the partner of choice by
many. In Enterprise Integration we are one
of only nine companies listed by Microsoft
as specialist partners.
In a key project this year a joint Charteris
and Microsoft team worked with a leading
telecommunications client on a strategic
integration programme to consolidate their
UK-wide legacy billing and administration
solutions. The team delivered major
Di Mabe
Practice Head
Charteris Annual Report 2004
6 efficiencies in deployment of the .NET
application, enabling the client to
accelerate their development cycle and so
meet their deadlines to go live on time.
We were delighted to receive in
recognition for our contribution to this
project a Microsoft award for excellence
in creating an application which has had
significant impact in helping one of
Microsoft’s leading clients win customers.
We continue to maintain our formal 
joint marketing agreements with leading
organisations such as Microsoft and
BACS Limited, which provide for mutual
referral of products and client services.
The relationship with BACS will help
major BACS users plan and migrate to
the new BACSTEL-IP automated
payment system in good time before the
existing system is withdrawn next year.
The practice is poised to build on the
strong foundations created by this year’s
high-growth. A key element of our
strategy is to develop further our offerings
in business integration and transformation
for leading businesses. We will continue
to invest in our people in support of these
propositions and in the development 
of our expanding services in business
intelligence and knowledge management. 
Client: Microsoft
Consultant: Shaun Taylor
Our challenge: A key client of Microsoft had embarked on an aggressive integration
programme of consolidating their UK-wide legacy billing and administration solutions
onto a single integrated platform, central to their business. The ultimate objectives were
significant ongoing cost saving and improvement in customer service, which could only
be achieved through the mass migration of customers to this new platform.
Our solution: The joint Charteris and Microsoft team worked very closely with the
client. An early achievement was a dramatic reduction in deployment time of the .NET
application from approximately three weeks down to just a few hours. This allowed the
client to accelerate their development cycle and so meet their corporate objective of going
live on-time with this complex and business-critical solution. In line with expectations,
substantial ongoing cost-savings are now being realised. 
Graham Pattie, Communications Sector Practice Manager at Microsoft said,
“The project was complex and challenging but the Charteris team were brave enough
to make tough calls when needed, and the business benefit to our client has been
enormous. Charteris understands our technologies inside out, and they have the
quality and agility to offer a business-focused service that is second to none.”
Microsoft award
A major Microsoft award was presented to Charteris for
excellence in helping Microsoft create the application described
above which had a significant impact on assisting the end client
to win new customers. 
The award Charteris received was for the ‘.NET Hosted
Solution of the Year’ in the Certified Partner ‘Winning
Customers’ category and it was made following the evaluation
of many submissions from the Microsoft global Certified
Partner base. The practice received this award on behalf of
Charteris for its highly innovative use of Microsoft technologies
in a solution based on a .NET architecture. 
The award was presented to Charteris at the Microsoft
Worldwide Partner Conference 2004, which was held in
Toronto, Canada – the premier conference for Microsoft
Certified Partners.
Case studies
7 “
In a steadily improving market we have
increased our activities in retail banking and
built business in the insurance market. With
the new relationships created this year,
combined with our well established client
base we look forward to the new financial
year with enthusiasm.
”
Our clients
3i 
Abbey
ABN AMRO
Alchemy Partners (Guernsey)
Ansbacher & Co
APACS
Arium
Bank of New York
Barclaycard
Barclays
Butterfield Bank
Close Brothers Corporate Finance
CSFB
Financial Services Authority
Goldfish Bank
Granville Baird Capital Partners
Guardian Media Group 
HBOS Financial Services
HSA
HSBC Investment Bank
LIFFE
Lloyds TSB
Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund
Nationwide Building Society
NatWest
Northern Rock
Northern Venture Managers
Premium Credit
Reuters 
Standard Chartered Bank
SWX Swiss Exchange
UIA Insurance
William M Mercer
Practice operating review
Financial services & media
Over the year we have seen a steady
improvement in the business climate in
the financial services sector, resulting in
an increased level of activity. Financial
institutions are starting to invest more
in initiatives directed at improving
performance, profitability and regulatory
compliance. Consequently whilst the
financial services market is still
challenging we have seen some increase
in appetite for discretionary spending.
Our plan this year was to build on our
strong base within retail banking and
to develop our activities in a new sector
of the market. We have seen a robust
performance within retail banking
founded on the strength of our existing
relationships, and enhanced with the
addition of new clients such as Abbey.
Our activities in the insurance market
have also grown through the year making
this sector a substantial contributor to
our business.
We have developed offerings which are
carefully targeted on client needs. These
have proved highly effective in opening
dialogue with organisations new to
Charteris. We have been pleased to see
a number of assignments resulting
from our Business Change Portfolio
Management service offering. This has
been particularly topical as organisations
address the challenge of selecting where
to invest for maximum business return;
balancing demand with the realities of
delivery budgets and capacity. 
For Abbey we were engaged to review
the operations and processes of its
Technology Resource Planning function –
the means by which resources were
allocated to new pieces of work within the
IT portfolio of change. Our independent
review validated and enhanced the outputs
of an internal review to define an agreed
target process and associated organisation,
capability and systems.
Our technology activities have been
focused predominantly on helping
organisations implement reliably,
advanced Microsoft technologies whilst
maximising their business benefits. This
has taken the form of early adoption
projects, coaching and mentoring of
clients’ own staff and the implementation
of development methods and frameworks.
With leading insurance premium finance
house, Premium Credit Limited,
Charteris developed an Internet-based
solution for their Personal Lines and
Schemes business which is transforming
Margaret Hassall
Practice Head
Charteris Annual Report 2004 Charteris Annual Report 2004
8 the way in which the business interacts
with its clients. With HBOS financial
services we provided Microsoft .NET
mentoring and technical development
services in support of a major shared
services programme.
Our programme and project management
skills continue to be in strong demand –
particularly in support of complex
business change activities. During the
year, we were engaged by Butterfield Bank
in Bermuda to support the mobilisation
of its strategic programme to refresh its
core retail banking platform. 
We are also delighted with our recent
engagement by a consortium led by the
Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund
which has won the right to buy the Wales
and the West Gas Distribution Network
from National Grid Transco plc. We are
tasked with managing the selection and
implementation of back office IT
systems, processes and capability for
the new infrastructure company
Building on the increased activity
achieved in our markets this year, and the
traction of our market offerings we look
forward to the new financial year with
optimism and enthusiasm.
Our challenge: With more than two million customers, PCL is the UK market leader in
the provision to individuals and businesses of finance for funding insurance premiums.
PCL ’s business comes through client brokers and insurers spread across the UK.
PCL was looking to improve the service it provided to its clients, and strengthen its
competitive position, by providing finance information online, avoiding the need to issue
reports on paper and reducing the queries handled by its call centre.
Our solution: Having assisted PCL in developing a business justification for the PLaSMA
project, Charteris was selected to deliver the solution. This involved managing the entire
project, from requirements analysis to acceptance testing and handover to PCL. 
Sharon Beckett, Managing Director at PCL, said:
“Our relationships with our clients are absolutely crucial to us. We have won a number
of awards for our service quality but we do not stand still and are continually looking
for ways of improving the level of service we provide. PLaSMA is an exciting and
revolutionary new feature of that service, which gives our clients access to information
that will save them time and money.
Charteris impressed us with their overall professionalism and the range and depth of
skills they brought to the table, both from their own consultants and their business
partners. We also liked the fact that the Microsoft .NET technology, of which
Charteris is an expert provider, would allow us to bring the new system to market
with maximum speed.”
Case studies
9
Client: Premium Credit Limited
Consultant: Chris Emery
Our challenge: Butterfield Bank, Bermuda’s largest independent bank, offers a full
range of community banking services in Bermuda, Barbados and the Cayman Islands,
encompassing retail and corporate banking and treasury activities. A key element in
the bank’s strategy to reduce costs and improve service levels is a major change
initiative to implement a new platform to support retail banking activities and to
upgrade its core IT infrastructure. 
Our solution: Charteris was initially engaged to provide support to the bank during
the mobilisation phase of this major change initiative. Among a number of activities,
our team of experienced practitioners defined the programme operating model and
associated governance, assessed critical programme dependencies and risks and built
the programme plan, and established a Programme Office to provide effective support
to the bank’s Project Managers. Most importantly, working with the bank’s own 
team, we built and maintained momentum for the programme, emphasising speed 
of execution and early delivery of business benefits.
Charteris continues to be engaged by the bank, most notably in the role of 
Programme Management for the delivery of the new retail banking platform.
Client: Butterfield Bank
Consultant: Jon Watson “
Our combination of management experience
and technology understanding has enabled
considerable growth in the public sector. We
see continuing strong demand for our highly
differentiated client’s adviser services.
”
Our clients
Barlow Lyde & Gilbert
Boyes T urner
British T rade International
Cabinet Office
Centrica
Clifford Chance
CMS Cameron McKenna
Criminal Justice IT
DLA
Driving Standards Agency
DSS
Electronic Data Systems
Eversheds
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
General Dental Council
Herbert Smith
ICL (UNITAS)
IMS Health
Isle of Man Government
Lovells
Masons 
Matheson Ormsby Prentice
Mayer Brown Rowe & Maw 
Nabarro Nathanson
NHS Shared Services
Olswang
Queen Elizabeth NHS T rust
Rolfe & Nolan
Scottish Enterprise
Tarlo Lyons
UKERNA
UNESCO 
Wandsworth Borough Council
Practice operating review
Government, legal, utilities & energy
The practice has continued its track
record of strong growth. The increasing
demand for our services in the public
sector is directly attributable to the rare
combination of management experience
and technology understanding found in
the Charteris team. Our experience of the
particular needs of the public sector
together with our knowledge of the
rapidly evolving technology landscape
means that Charteris is ideally placed to
fulfill the role of independent advisor to
clients who are defining, designing and
procuring information systems. We see
our success in assisting with strategic
delivery management as being the
platform for continued significant
growth in the next financial year.
Our world-class strength in the application
of Microsoft .NET technology is proving
to be an important differentiator, for
example at the Cabinet Office. Having
these skills allows us to extend beyond the
traditional client advisor role into the
delivery of technology pilots and proofs
of concept. Used in this way, technology
can enable the stakeholders in major
change programmes to gain early visibility
of the ways in which their needs will be
realised. These skills also provide a
powerful tool for accelerating the delivery
of business benefit and thereby helping
programmes retain the support of their
sponsors and customers.
Our ability to provide independent
commercial advice, based on our
considerable experience in the management
of information systems supply relationships,
is much sought-after. We have been asked
to provide independent advice to clients 
in the public sector and in the energy 
and utilities market on the procurement
and management of large and complex 
IT-related service contracts. We are
frequently asked to serve as expert 
witnesses in commercial disputes. 
We have been instructed by leading law
firms, including Barlow Lyde & Gilbert,
Boyes T urner, DLA, Eversheds, Masons 
and Nabarro Nathanson.
In central government, our business has
moved on apace. We have taken on
increased responsibilities in the Cabinet
Office and have continued to win work
at CJIT and in the national security
and law enforcement markets. We are
focussing on helping central government
departments achieve the efficiencies
required by the Gershon review.
In the NHS the experience we have gained
in contributing programme management
and IT architecture expertise to national
Graham Hygate
Practice Head
Charteris Annual Report 2004
10 programmes has given us visibility of key
issues likely to be faced by health trusts.
As they strive to maintain uninterrupted
delivery of service to the patient, trusts
need a strategy for maximising the benefit
they can gain from various current
initiatives including National Programme
for IT, Payment by Results, Agenda for
Change, Electronic Staff Records and the
renewal of NHS infrastructure. Charteris 
is well placed to provide independent
advice in this area. We were delighted to 
be awarded a framework contract with 
the health services in Wales for their
Informing Healthcare initiative.
Our work on the boundary between health
and social care has given us experience of
the many initiatives affecting both local
authorities and primary care trusts, for
example the Single Assessment Process,
Electronic Social Care Record and
Integrated Children’s Services.
Looking ahead, we see continuing strong
demand for our highly differentiated and
high-value client’s adviser services in
central government, in national security
and in health and social care.
Case studies
11
Our challenge: Having supported the Cabinet Office in the definition of a major
new piece of infrastructure to support sharing of information across government,
Charteris was invited to build a prototype report handling application to
demonstrate the potential for early delivery of business benefit.
Our solution: Our on-site information, security, service management and
programme management consultants pulled in skilled technologists from our
Microsoft technology team to carry out the prototyping under the leadership of 
one of our project managers. The prototype was developed while our consultancy
team continued to advise on the full-scale procurement. It proved to be a success 
in two ways. It helped with the specification and design of the full system and 
it helped demonstrate the value of the programme to its customers.
Client: Cabinet Office
Consultant: John Fishburn
Our challenge: Charteris consultants, most of whom have more than 20 years 
IT experience, are often instructed as expert witnesses in disputes arising from 
IT-related contracts. Much of our work is in support of mediation and arbitration,
but if a dispute goes to litigation we can provide experts who have been tested 
in the witness box. 
Our solution: Our consultants are highly valued as expert witnesses because they
bring commercial independence and recent real-world experience of their disciplines,
from programme and project management to highly technical systems and software
issues. They are practitioners, not “professional experts”. This strengthens their
credibility in court. 
“Charteris is my first port of call for expert witnesses as there is a wide range
of true expertise available to provide valuable assistance in resolving complex
technology disputes.”
(Rob McCallough, partner, Masons)
“By drawing on the real-world business knowledge of an experienced practitioner,
Charteris brought clarity and rigour to its analysis of difficult and highly contentious
issues in a major ICC arbitration.”
(Stewart Shackleton, partner, Eversheds)
“Charteris is able to put a widely experienced team on a case, who can
understand the issues quickly and take the initiative in moving them forward.
This gives me great confidence and makes it enjoyable working with them.”
(Geoff Mendelsohn, partner, Boyes Turner)
“I have no hesitation in recommending Charteris to clients. You can be guaranteed
quality service delivered in a timely manner. Their technical expertise coupled with
their knowledge of the industry and market proved to be invaluable to one of our
clients in resolving highly complex issues on a financial lines insurance policy.” 
(Sharon Daly, partner, Matheson Ormsby Prentice)
Service: Expert Witness
Consultant: Annette Hughes
