 6 Charteris Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Our plans anticipated that in the fast changing
global consulting market, defining factors for
success would be our ability to embrace our
clients’ business vision, and versatility in shaping
our services to their needs. This would require a
proximity to clients that would enable us to
blend our skills with theirs in the delivery of
strategic business change. In so many dimensions
our work this year has demonstrated the
effectiveness of this approach – both for
Charteris and our clients.
Our fundamental proposition of providing the
essential bridge between business and technology
has continued to be pivotal in the growth and
competitive differentiation of Charteris. 
This year our business consulting and
programme management skills have been
deployed on some of the largest technology-
enabled change programmes in the industry.
We have also formed combined leadership
teams with our clients to define and build
complex ERP solutions in record time. In the
implementation of these projects we have
selected and managed leading on-shore and off-
shore suppliers. Our independence has been a
vital factor in the success of this model. 
Our deep expertise in the strategic application 
of Microsoft technologies has again been a major
driver of growth. Our technical consulting teams
have continued to work with the latest Microsoft
technologies, and in multi-disciplinary teams
have delivered enterprise-wide business solutions
for major corporate clients.
Market sector growth
The first year of our strategy concentrated on
broadening our business base in target market
sectors and the last 12 months has seen
significant progress in building on this platform.
In our consulting practices we have strengthened
key relationships – which is reflected in 60% of 
our revenues being related to existing clients –
continued the expansion of our client base and
further focused our services to meet the specific
needs of clients within their markets.
With some improvement in market conditions 
in the financial services sector and new business 
in broadcast media, revenue from our financial
services and media practice increased by 51%.
Throughout the year we maintained a strong
presence in the retail banking sector supporting 
a number of high street banks. With Macquarie
European Infrastructure Fund, Charteris played 
a leading role in managing the delivery in very
tight timescales of new SAP Back Office systems
and processes, ready for completion of the
acquisition by Macquarie of the Wales and
West gas distribution network.
The combination of our deep technology skills
and the delivery methodology developed by
Cedalion was a decisive factor in our selection 
by ITV Broadcasting as their partner to
implement a range of new business solutions.
Whilst revenues in our retail, manufacturing
and services practice were affected by the
successful completion of our involvement in a
major project in the first half, the practice’s focus
on transformation and integration resulted in
important new business in the second half,
particularly in the fast developing world of
on-line retailing.
On completion of the design and early
implementation phases of a major ERP solution
for leading medical equipment manufacturer,
KCI International, the programme was
successfully handed over to the client team for
international roll out. Building on its expertise
in supply chain integration, the practice has
developed a centre of excellence for business
integration in multi-channel retailing. This led
in the spring to a major new contract to
implement an e-commerce solution for a fast
growing internet retailer. 
Our business relationship with Microsoft
continued to strengthen this year. We worked
with Microsoft on several high profile projects.
This enabled us to maintain our experience at 
the leading edge of the business application 
of Microsoft technologies – a position further
In the second year of our three year strategy for
growth – and in an industry still recovering from
recession – it is a pleasure to report that we are
right on track. Charteris Annual Report 2005 7
underpinned by being one of the few Microsoft
partners in the world to participate in multiple
early adopter programmes.
We have seen considerable growth this year in the
public sector and continued strong demand for
our services to the legal sector. Overall growth
was 45%. In the public sector we have expanded
our presence in both central and local
government and in the NHS. 
For the National Security community we have
supported the most senior members of a number
of agencies in ensuring the success of critical
technology-enabled change programmes. At the
boundary between health and social care in local
government we have expanded our activities and
are now working with three local authorities in 
the delivery of Case Management systems to help
them comply with the Children Act 2004. 
Charteris is providing independent commercial
and technical advice to the senior management 
of Connecting for Health in the National Health
Service. We continue to experience good demand
from leading law firms. We have again acted for
both private and public sector clients in some 
very large cases which pivot on information
technology issues.
When Charteris was floated on the AIM market
in 2000 our stated intention was to complement
organic growth through selective acquisition.
Following on from our successful acquisition of
TMS in 2001 we were therefore delighted to
announce our second acquisition in November
2004. Cedalion has added a fourth practice to
Charteris and a much valued local presence in
the Scottish market. Cedalion has well
established relationships in the finance sector
where it has developed a risk and compliance
proposition to help clients address increasing
regulatory demands. 
Cedalion has also built a leading position in the
strategic application of Microsoft infrastructure
platforms across a broad base of leading Scottish
organisations, including the Crown Office and
local authorities. The promotion of this
capability through the rest of the Charteris
organisation has already led to new sales in our
traditional markets. 
31%
Principal Consultant
20%
Senior Consultant
9%
Principal T echnologist
35%
Senior T echnologist
5%
Technologist
CONSULTANT TYPE
BREAKDOWN 2005
Charteris team
The success of Charteris this year has been the
team’s success. Our approach to consulting is
based on our people’s ownership of their clients’
business goals and their achievement which places
great responsibility on them. Once again this year
it has been their vision, courage and tenacity,
based on hard-won experience, that has made 
the difference. It is also great to see the work 
and thought leadership of members of the team
again being recognised this year with awards and
accreditations.
Our recruitment activities have attracted a
number of talented people into the organisation,
many recognised leaders in their disciplines, who
are enabling us to deepen our specialist
capabilities. 
It has been a great pleasure to welcome the
Cedalion team into the Charteris business. 
I would like to thank the entire team for the
professionalism and generosity of spirit they
displayed in helping integrate the businesses –
enabling the whole indeed to exceed the sum 
of the parts.
Looking ahead
The progress made by the business this year
provides us with a sound platform on which 
to build for the future. Market conditions have
developed largely in the way we expected: the
market overall has returned to modest growth 
but higher growth opportunities are appearing in
certain sectors and specialisations. The action we
are taking to focus on these areas provides us with
considerable opportunity.
As ever we set our standards high but in the firm
belief that the calibre of our people, client base
and services will enable us to deliver quality
growth for Charteris in the coming years.
DAVID PICKERING
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
3 October 2005 8 Charteris Annual Report 2005
OUR CLIENTS
• Argos Retail Group
• ASDA
• AutoCascade
• Boots
• Bovis Lend Lease
• British American T obacco
• British Computer Society
• BULL Information
Systems
• Deloitte
• Inchcape Shipping
Services
• Innovate Logistics
• John Lewis Partnership
• KCI International
• LogicaCMG
• Maersk Sealand
• Marks & Spencer
• Microsoft
• Patsystems
• Portal Software
• QSA
• Sainsbury’s
• T esco
PRACTICE OPERATING REVIEW
Retail, manufacturing and services practice
Within the retail, manufacturing and services
sectors, our focus on integrating people,
processes and systems, particularly for those that
use or are considering Microsoft technologies, is
successfully allowing us to expand existing client
relationships and to forge new relationships.
This year we have continued with our strategy 
of offering services that combine our business
transformation and integration expertise. Our 
focus on the retail sector has led to the emergence
of a centre of excellence for business transformation
in multi-channel retailing, which is a natural
extension of our work in supply chain integration.
In addition, we have begun to add to our retail
offerings the new technology skills in infrastructure
management that we acquired with Cedalion.
We were delighted to be awarded a major contract
to deliver an enterprise level e-tailing solution,
which was central to the expansion plans of the
client. Key to our success in winning this job was
our ability to integrate the new e-commerce web
presence with legacy systems within the client
organisation and third party providers, such as
fulfilment services.
We have continued to work with clients to help
them gain competitive edge by expanding their
supply chains quickly and cost effectively. For a
major logistics company, we were able to help
assimilate new customers into their rapidly
expanding portfolio by providing a solution that
enabled swift integration with their customers’
systems. We were also proud to have handed
over the initial phases of an international ERP
roll out to a global manufacturing company.
This programme demonstrated our ability to
establish and manage a multi-disciplinary team,
drawn from several partners, to deliver against
challenging timescales.
Building upon the expertise brought to
Charteris through the acquisition of Cedalion,
we successfully delivered a “Well Managed
Infrastructure” project, for a marine services
provider. We ensured a successful migration to
the latest generation of Microsoft’s collaboration
and communications platforms. We also reviewed
the client’s infrastructure operations to align
their procedures with industry best practice.
We are engaged in discussions with several
clients to carry out similar assignments.
Our strong relationship with Microsoft has 
proved a key strength in our ability to deliver
transformational change, both through integration
of front and back office systems, and the
management of infrastructure. This relationship
continues to flourish. As an implementation 
partner we are increasingly being recommended 
by Microsoft for a variety of business intelligence,
knowledge management, and multi-channel 
retail projects. 
As a service supplier to Microsoft we provide world-
class expertise to assist in the delivery of very large
development projects based on the latest Microsoft
technology. This year we have also been working
with Microsoft in Cambridge, helping to develop
the latest generation of software development tools.
Working in partnership with Microsoft continues
to give us access to the practical application of the
very latest Microsoft technology, an experience
which is enhanced by our involvement in a number
of Microsoft’s early adopter programmes. 
Combining the strengths we now have in business
transformation and systems integration,
particularly in supply chain and multi-channel
retailing, with our expertise in infrastructure
management, we believe the practice is well placed
to continue its track record of impressive growth.
MARTIN CHITTY
PRACTICE HEAD
“Charteris was able to provide the skill and focus
Innovate needed to deliver an extremely challenging
supply chain integration programme despite severe
time and resource constraints.”
TONY BERNARDIS, HEAD OF IT, INNOVATE LOGISTICS Charteris Annual Report 2005 9
OUR CLIENTS
• Abbey
• ABN AMRO
• Alchemy Partners
(Guernsey)
• Ansbacher & Co 
• APACS
• Arium
• Bank of New York
• Barclaycard
• Barclays
• Butterfield Bank
• Close Brothers 
Corporate Finance
• CSFB
• Financial Services
Authority
• Granville Baird Capital
Partners
• Guardian Media Group
• HBOS Financial Services
• HSA
• HSBC Investment Bank
• ITV Broadcasting
• LIFFE
• Lloyds TSB
• Macquarie European 
Infrastructure Fund
• Mellon Europe
• Misys International
Banking Systems
• Nationwide Building
Society
• Northern Rock
• Northern Venture
Managers
• Premium Credit
• Reuters
• Room Solutions
• Standard Chartered Bank
• SWX Swiss Exchange 
• UIA Insurance
• virt-x
• William M Mercer
• Yorkshire Fund Managers
PRACTICE OPERATING REVIEW
Financial services and media practice
We have seen a steady improvement in the
business climate in the financial services sector.
We have also been successful in our expansion
into the media sector. These factors, combined
with the relevance of our offerings, have
enabled us to achieve strong growth and
performance through the year.
The practice’s presence in retail banking has
developed further this year. The team has worked
on a range of projects and programmes spanning
the breadth of our offerings. Post acquisition
integration and performance improvement
initiatives have been key drivers of our banking
engagements. Examples of our work range from
Business Change Portfolio Management, to
delivering leading-edge Microsoft skills in the
execution of a post acquisition integration
programme, to shaping an outsourcing programme
for one of the main high-street banks. 
We have built on the credit and operational risk
knowledge and expertise that we gained through
the acquisition of Cedalion by taking to market
our joint capability in the risk and compliance
arena. The strength of the offering was confirmed
by the early successful delivery of a complex
compliance management solution, requiring the
innovative use of Microsoft technologies. 
Our relationship with Macquarie Bank has
deepened during the year, based on the successful
delivery at Wales and West Utilities, and we
continue to support the new organisation in 
the next phase of integration activities. We see 
a developing pipeline of prospects based on
providing a similar service in other organisations
and consider it a key part of the growth strategy
for the practice in the new financial year.
We have made good progress on our plan to
develop our position in a new sector, broadcast
and media. We have been appointed by ITV
Broadcasting as their Microsoft .NET Technology
partner. We are working with ITV to develop
innovative technical solutions using Microsoft
technologies, including a significant project using
SharePoint. A key differentiator in our selection
was the Charteris Delivery Framework which 
was developed specifically to optimise the 
balance between accelerated and flexible use of 
new Microsoft technologies in solving business
problems. We have also developed further
opportunities in the media sector, which we will
seek to convert early in the new financial year. 
Building on the increased activity in our markets
this year and the evident appeal of our market
offerings, we look forward to the new financial
year with optimism and enthusiasm. 
MARGARET HASSALL
PRACTICE HEAD
“We selected Charteris as our Microsoft .NET
Technology partner to provide technical expertise 
and industry best-practice through the deployment 
of their delivery methodology. In addition to their
technology skills, they demonstrate a remarkable
commitment to making our projects successful”
IAN WHITFIELD, TECHNOLOGY DIRECTOR, ITV BROADCASTING 10 Charteris Annual Report 2005
OUR CLIENTS
• Addleshaw Goddard
• ATLAS Consortium
• Atos Origin
• Barlow Lyde & Gilbert
• Boyes T urner
• British T rade International
• Cabinet Office
• Calor Gas
• Capio Healthcare
• Centrica
• Clifford Chance
• Corgi
• Criminal Justice IT
• Croydon Council
• Department for Education
and Skills
• DLA Piper Rudnick
Gray Cary
• Driving Standards Agency
• DSS
• Eversheds
• Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer
• Forestry Commission
• General Dental Council
• Herbert Smith
• ICL (UNITAS)
• IMS Health
• Isle of Man Government
• Kent & Medway Strategic
Health Authority
• Lovells
• Mayer Brown Rowe & Maw
• Nabarro Nathanson
• NHS Connecting for Health
• NHS Shared Services
• Olswang
• Pinsent Masons 
• Queen Elizabeth NHS T rust
• Rolfe & Nolan
• Royal Surrey County
Hospital
• Scottish Enterprise
• Tarlo Lyons
• UKERNA
• UNESCO 
• Wandsworth Borough
Council
• Wandsworth Primary
Care T rust
PRACTICE OPERATING REVIEW
Government, legal, utilities and energy practice
GRAHAM HYGATE
PRACTICE HEAD
Our public sector business expanded
significantly during the year. We strengthened
our relationships with existing clients including
the Cabinet Office and the NHS, and built
new relationships in central government, local
government and health.
In central government, we developed our position
as independent, confidential advisors to the Senior
Responsible Owners (SROs) of major change
programmes. We won new contracts as
commercial and technical advisors to the NHS
National Programme for IT, now Connecting for
Health, and as “SRO Conscience” to a major
government department. We continued to provide
independent advice to major change programmes
at the Cabinet Office and within the NHS. We
were also engaged by the EDS-led ATLAS
consortium to provide commercial and technical
advice over a ten year period to the members of
the consortium. ATLAS will support the MOD’s
Defence Information Infrastructure (Future)
project to replace numerous individual
information systems throughout the MOD with a
single, more efficient information infrastructure. 
We established a new client relationship with the
Department for Education and Skills (DfES)
supporting work on information sharing, as part 
of the Every Child Matters: Change for Children
programme. The Every Child Matters Green Paper
(2003) highlighted better information sharing as
key to successful early intervention. The aim of 
the information sharing initiative is to enable 
practitioners to share information, to ensure that
children and families benefit from universal
services, such as education and basic health care,
and to enable them to get any additional support
they may need at the right time. Information
sharing requirements are now part of the
Children Act 2004. 
Compliance with the Children Act is also an
important driver for our work in local government.
We continued to work with Wandsworth Borough
Council on the introduction of a new case
management system which gives care professionals 
a common and up to date view of case information.
The sharing of information between local authorities
and Primary Care T rusts (PCTs) is particularly
important, and we are pleased to have been engaged
by Wandsworth PCT as a result of the success of our
work in the Social Services department.
As well as helping provide a more joined-up
service, social care case management systems
provide much of the raw material for the
calculation of performance indicators, upon which
local authorities’ performance is externally assessed.
Building on this experience, we won related work
at Croydon Council. Our cost-effective approach,
built around the use of Microsoft’s business
intelligence tools, allows our clients to set up a
repeatable process for generating reliable and
auditable performance indicators.
Looking ahead, we see increasing demand for the
kind of leadership support that we provide at the
highest level to some of the UK’s biggest public
sector change programmes. Where tens or
hundreds of millions of pounds of public money
are being invested in technology-enabled change
failure is not an option, and we have
demonstrated the transformational effect that
independent high-quality advice at the highest
level of such programmes can have.
We also foresee strong demand for our capabilities in
the cost-effective use of Microsoft technologies to
help improve productivity within local government
and NHS trusts. The demand we have seen for help
in the generation of Performance Indicators is one
example of a wider need for better data exploitation.
“Charteris helped us demonstrate the progress we have
made this year, drawing on their understanding of
performance assessment in local government and
responding swiftly to our needs with a cost effective
approach to the generation of performance indicators.”
JANE DOYLE, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, CROYDON SOCIAL SERVICES Charteris Annual Report 2005 11
PRACTICE OPERATING REVIEW
Northern practice
OUR CLIENTS
• Aberdeen Asset
Management
• AEGON
• Baillie Gifford & Co
• Cardiff City Council
• Cleveland Police
• Crown Office and
Procurator Fiscal Service
• East Ayrshire Council
• Foreign and Colonial
Asset Management
• Forestry Commission
• Greater Glasgow
Primary Care T rust
• HBOS
• Midlothian Council
• NHS Borders
• NHS National Services
Scotland
• North Ayrshire Council
• North Lanarkshire
Council
• Northumbria Healthcare
NHS T rust
• Perth & Kinross Council
• Scottish Borders Council
• Scottish National Blood
T ransfusion Service
• Shepherd and
Wedderburn WS
MIKE HINTON
PRACTICE HEAD
Having successfully integrated Cedalion, the
Northern Practice is strengthening relationships
with new and existing clients through the
broader range of skills and offerings which we
can now make available to the market in
Scotland and the North of England.
The practice has built on Cedalion’s long and
successful track record of providing innovative
solutions to clients in the North. We continue
our work in major risk programmes within large
financial institutions, as they prepare to comply
with the demands of the new regulations faced
by the industry. We are now also providing
experienced programme management skills to
complex programmes in two large banks in
Scotland.
One of the specialisations that Cedalion brought
to Charteris was helping clients achieve
operational excellence in their IT departments
through successful implementation of advanced
Microsoft infrastructure technologies and
improved operational processes. This world-class
reputation continues to be demonstrated through
our involvement with a number of early adopter
programmes relating to Microsoft’s infrastructure
management, communication and collaboration
technologies. All of these programmes have
resulted in successful implementation of enterprise
scale solutions using the emerging technologies.
We secured an engagement, in partnership with
Microsoft, to deliver software for part of the
Scottish Executive’s eCare programme. eCare is
about better and more joined up care, advice and
assistance to the people of Scotland through the
use of computers and communication technology.
With the individual’s consent, eCare enables
secure information-sharing between professionals,
such as doctors, nurses, social workers and
teachers, in public and voluntary agencies.
Charteris has also been working with Central
Scotland Police on their landmark migration
from Linux to Windows. This is a complex
project, which will provide a much improved
infrastructure with a lower cost of ownership to
the Police force.
During the year we further demonstrated our
commitment to the financial sector through our
patronage of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in
Scotland. We expect this association will
strengthen further our relationships in the
Scottish finance sector over the coming years.
The practice is well positioned to build on the
strong local foundations in the financial and
public sectors. We will enhance our integrated
risk solutions and Well Managed Infrastructure
offerings, and develop further propositions to
meet the needs of the Northern market. 
“The benefits we’ve achieved surpass my expectations.
We’ve exceeded time and reliability estimates and
increased security. In terms of technology, this project
has been the biggest leap forward the Council has made
in the last 10 or 15 years.” 
ALAN NAIRN, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE SERVICES, PERTH & KINROSS COUNCIL
