 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2012 | 8
Chairman’s Statement
Focused for future growth
Introduction
2012 was an important year for the Group 
following the acquisition of RESORBA® in late 
December 201 1. Group revenues and proﬁts both 
saw strong growth as a result, not just from the 
new business we acquired but also from many of 
our existing operations which continued the 
excellent progress of the last few years. 
As we indicated at the interims, we have been 
reviewing the organisational structure of the 
Group to ensure that the business is best 
positioned to deliver growth following the 
acquisition. As a result of this review, we have 
now moved from reporting under two business 
units, Advanced Woundcare and Wound 
Closure, to four business units: Branded Direct, 
Branded Distributed, OEM and Bulk Materials, 
and will be reporting our results under these 
business segments. 
Financial Highlights
Reported Group revenue was up 53% to £52.6 
million (2011: £34.4 million) at constant currency. 
On a like-for-like, constant currency basis, 
excluding the contribution from RESORBA®, 
revenue grew 3% to £35.3 million  
(2011: £34.6 million).
The Group’s adjusted operating margin 
increased by 520 basis points (‘bps’) to 24.3% 
(2011: 19.1%), mainly due to the change in mix 
of business towards more of our own brands, 
including the contribution from the sutures and 
collagen products resulting from the RESORBA® 
acquisition. After net ﬁnance costs of £0.7 million 
(2011: £NIL), adjusted proﬁt before tax increased 
by 85% to £12.1 million (2011: £6.6 million). 
Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share¹ 
increased by 24% to 5.30p (2011: 4.28p).
Strong cash ﬂow has reduced the Group’s net 
debt at 31 December 2012 to £5.5 million, which 
compares to £13.4 million at the end of 2011 
following the RESORBA® acquisition. In this 
regard, we have been able to repay additional 
amounts of £2 million and €2 million of the 
original €25 million RESORBA® related term loan 
ahead of schedule.
Key Business Achievements
We have now completed our restructuring 
of the Group so that we are appropriately 
organised to deliver the commercial 
opportunities resulting from our acquisition 
of RESORBA®. The details of this are included 
in the Chief Executive’s Review.
Within our Branded Direct business, ActivHeal® 
continues to perform well and achieved a 29% 
increase in revenues, while LiquiBand® in the UK 
grew by 5% with some initial success being seen 
from our new Operating Room (OR) sales force. 
The largest part of this unit, however, comprises 
the direct sales of RESORBA®‘s sutures, collagen 
and dental products into the German domestic 
market, which grew by 5% compared with 2011.
Sales of LiquiBand® into the US are included in 
our Branded Distributed business, and 2012 saw 
a mixed performance with continued gains in 
the non-hospital or alternative site market partly 
oﬀset by a disappointing end to the year in the 
hospital market due to a key partner not meeting 
its contractual minima. However, we have now 
reassessed our market approach and our various 
partners’ capabilities, and we are pleased to 
advise that we will be positioning a new 
LiquiBand® product with a new partner in the US, 
with a launch expected in H2 2013. Elsewhere, 
the distributor business that we acquired with 
RESORBA® grew by a satisfactory 12%.
1
  Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted fully diluted earnings per share are 
described in Note 15
Dr. Don Evans
Chairman
Within our OEM business, it was pleasing to see 
the 22% growth from our silver alginate business 
in 2012, well ahead of market growth rates. The 
previous destocking eﬀect we saw with one of 
our partners is now well behind us. 
As we had previously ﬂagged, our Bulk Materials 
business declined 43% compared with the prior 
year due to pipeline ﬁlling by partners in 2011. 
This business is expected to return to growth 
in 2013.
Dividend
We are proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 0.35p per 
share, making a total dividend for the year of 
0.52p per share, a 16% increase on 2011. If 
approved at the Annual General Meeting on 
22 May 2013, this will be paid on 28 May 2013 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 3 May 2013.
Board
With the opportunities available to the Group 
we have decided to strengthen the Board and 
we will be adding a further Non-Executive 
Director with commercial experience during  
this year. 
I also intend to step down as Chairman later 
this year after a successor has been found. In my 
16 years with AMS I have seen the complete 
transformation of the Group, and I know that I 
will be leaving a business in excellent shape for 
future growth. I would like to thank the Board, 
my colleagues and all our employees for helping 
to build this great Company and to wish them all 
continued success. 
Employees
On behalf of the Board, I would also like to thank 
all Group employees for all their hard work over 
the past year in ensuring the successful 
integration of RESORBA® into the Group as part 
of the continued development of AMS as a 
leading global medical technology business. 
Outlook
We continue to be excited by the opportunities 
for LiquiBand® in the US and the beneﬁts that 
our acquisition of RESORBA® will bring. These, 
together with the continued growth of 
ActivHeal® and silver alginate, as well as new 
product developments such as anti-microbial 
dressings and our hernia mesh device, give us 
conﬁdence that the Group is well positioned 
for the future.
With our business more focused to deliver 
growth across the Group, we remain positive 
for the prospects of the Group. 
Dr. Don Evans
Chairman
10 April 2013
