 Strategic Report (continued)
12   |   Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc  Annual Report 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
I am pleased to report that AMS has 
delivered another year of strong growth 
and that we are seeing the first year of 
benefit from the reorganisation of  
the Group into Business Units.
Branded Direct
The Branded Direct Business Unit’s 
revenues grew 14% to £22.9 million (2012: 
£20.1 million) and 11% at constant currency. 
This Business Unit’s key growth drivers are 
our three brands of ActivHeal®, LiquiBand® 
and RESORBA®.
Sales of our ActivHeal® dressings into the 
NHS grew 32% to £5.5 million (2012: £4.2 
million) as a result of the continued support 
to our brand and the free-of-charge training 
and education of NHS staff from our clinical 
nurse team. The product range continues to 
be enhanced with the regular launch of 
foam and fibre dressings developed by our 
own Research & Development (R&D) group 
and we continue to target new hospitals as 
well as improve compliance in existing 
accounts. With a market share of only 5%, 
we still have considerable opportunities  
and expect double-digit growth to continue 
in 2014.
UK LiquiBand® sales into the Accident 
and Emergency Room (A&E) grew 5% to 
£2.5 million (2012: £2.4 million) and sales 
of LiquiBand® into the Operating Room 
(OR) increased 175% to £0.4 million 
(2012: £0.2 million), reflecting the early 
success of the new UK surgical sales 
team which is also selling RESORBA® 
haemostats and sutures alongside 
LiquiBand®. We expect to see continued 
success from this team which is expected 
to deliver further growth in the OR in 
2014. LiquiBand® sales in Germany grew 
3% at constant currency to £1.4 million.
German sales including sales of 
RESORBA® branded sutures and 
collagen dressings grew by 8% and by 
3% at constant currency to £13.8 million 
(2012: £13.2 million). Within this, sales of 
haemostats, sutures and dental cones 
performed well, whilst sales of sutures to 
German hospitals declined slightly. 
Although the German hospital suture 
market is very competitive we are 
confident that sales growth is possible 
and with our increased focus on, and 
capability to deal with, Group Purchasing 
Organisations, we expect the hospital 
segment to return to growth in 2014.
This Business Unit’s R&D continues to 
improve the attributes of the Group’s 
haemostats. In particular, we are looking 
to enhance our haemostat range with the 
inclusion of antibiotics to prevent 
infection following surgery, as well as 
developing reinforced collagens that will 
encourage faster regrowth of tissue 
following surgery.
Branded Distributed
Our Branded Distributed Business Unit 
reported revenue growth of 28% at 
constant currency to £8.8 million (2012: 
£6.8 million). The key growth driver is 
LiquiBand® into the US which accounted 
for 34%, or £3.0 million (2012: £1.7 million) 
of the total, up by 78% at constant 
currency over 2012.
Following the disappointment with one 
of our distributors in 2012, our progress in 
the acute care or hospital sector stalled 
in that year. We addressed this issue by 
renegotiating our contract and seeking 
additional product approvals. As a result, 
we have been able to sign further  Our Hernia Mesh Fixation device 
is due to launch in H1 2014.
Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc  Annual Report 2013   |   13
distributorship agreements with other 
partners, broadening our access to the 
market while enhancing our product 
range. We gained FDA clearance in 2013 
for our 2-octyl cyanoacrylate tissue 
adhesive, complementing our existing 
butyl and blended formulations. We are 
already starting to see the benefits of 
these developments and, with our wider 
distribution network and our increased 
portfolio of products, we continue to  
be optimistic about the opportunity in 
the US.
Sales of LiquiBand® through our 
distributors for the EU and the Rest of 
the World also showed good growth, 
increasing to £1.3 million (2012: £0.9 
million), with our distributors in France 
and Italy both performing well. We were 
also pleased to see our first sales into 
South Korea as a consequence of our 
continued geographic expansion 
strategy. Sales of RESORBA® products 
through distributors also made good 
progress increasing to £2.8 million  
(2012: £2.2 million), with export sales to 
France and China doing particularly well.
In Russia, as previously advised, supply  
of product was temporarily disrupted 
earlier in the year due to a requirement to 
re-register all products with the Russian 
regulatory body and this affected the 
overall growth for the year. As a 
consequence, sales grew by 3% to £1.7 
million (2012: £1.6 million) but declined 
2% at constant currency. We do not 
expect a similar challenge in 2014. 
Approval to sell LiquiBand® in Russia  
was granted in September 2013 and  
has resulted in initial sales which we 
anticipate will show steady growth 
throughout 2014. Regulatory approval 
for LiquiBand® in China continues on 
track for a H2 2014 launch. Upon 
approval we intend to launch our 
products through distributors.
Our Hernia Mesh fixation device, which 
will be our first application for the use of 
our medical adhesives inside the body, is 
on plan for a launch in the EU in H1 2014. 
Development time took slightly longer 
than expected after modifications were 
made to one of the mechanical parts in 
the delivery system. This product will be 
sold both by the Group’s direct sales 
teams as well as through a distributor 
network.
In this Business Unit’s R&D, we continue 
to make enhancements to our existing 
range of topical adhesives, including 
improvements to the applicator and to 
extending the range of sizes as well as 
developing ways to improve the in-house 
synthesis of the base monomers.
OEM
This Business Unit delivered 7% growth 
at constant currency in 2013 and had 
revenues of £23.6 million (2012: £22.0 
million).
Our silver alginate products contributed 
52% of the revenue, an increase of 15% at 
constant currency to £12.1 million (2012: 
£10.5 million), and are a key growth driver 
within this unit. Our partners continue to 
grow sales both by accessing new 
markets and by winning market share 
from the market leader which we 
estimate still has over 70% of the 
available market. There is, therefore, still  
a large opportunity for our customers to 
grow further. We continue to support  
our partners by helping them to gain 
regulatory approval for new markets and 
by supporting their marketing campaigns 
with efficacy data.
Sales of our foam-based finished 
dressings increased to £1.8 million (2012: 
£0.9 million), with our new trilaminate 
dressings contributing to this growth. 
The collagen OEM business acquired 
with RESORBA® remained flat year-on-
year, while sales of our older woundcare 
products declined to £7.2 million (2012: 
£8.0 million) as customers and markets 
move to more modern dressings.
We have a strong pipeline of R&D 
projects for wound care applications in 
this Business Unit, and product launches 
for both new anti-microbial dressings 
and atraumatic foam dressings are 
scheduled for H2 2014. Other longer-
term work includes the development  
of a range of post-operative surgical 
dressings.
Bulk Materials
The Bulk Materials Business Unit grew by 
9% at constant currency with revenue of 
£4.2 million (2012: £3.8 million). Foam roll 
stock is the key growth driver in this unit, 
with revenue of £3.3 million (2012: £3.4 
million), 86% of the total. The follow-on 
orders from the pipeline fill in 2011 have 
returned but are not yet at the full 
expected level. Further progress was 
held back by below expectation ordering 
from an existing key customer who 
de-stocked. To mitigate this effect, 
several contracts with new customers 
have been agreed which will support  
a growth in sales in 2014. 14   |   Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc  Annual Report 2013
Key performance indicators
10 11 12 13
REVENUE GROWTH
 
(%)
1
13%
53%
8%
18%
CUSTOMER SERVICE (OTIF)
1 2
10 11 12 13
96%
94%
87% 86%
ADJUSTED
3
 OPERATING 
MARGIN (%)
1
10 11 12 13
24% 24%
19%
17%
10
1. Includes twelve months contribution 
 from RESORBA® acquisition in 2012
2. OTIF – ‘On time in full’
3. Before exceptional items and amortisation
 of acquired intangible assets
11 12 13
6%
24%
14%
32%
ADJUSTED
2
 FULLY DILUTED 
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
GROWTH (%)
1
Operations
Improvements continue throughout the 
business, enabling the Group to meet the 
increased production volumes needed 
for growth without significant capital 
investment being required. We estimate 
that 120bps of gross margin 
improvements were achieved in 2013 
through lean management techniques 
and process improvements. The major 
capital projects in 2014 will be focused 
on delivering further efficiency 
improvements, particularly to our foam 
conversion process.
Our Quality and Regulatory processes 
have been reviewed and our teams 
restructured to ensure that they are 
aligned to give full support to the 
Business Units. Our processes have been 
streamlined and are now operating under 
one Quality Management Standard 
across the Group.
We have also been investing in improving 
our business systems. Following a 
successful launch at our Plymouth site, 
our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) 
system has been launched in Winsford in 
February 2014 and is expected to launch 
in Etten Leur, Netherlands in Q3 2014. 
The benefits are that we will have 
business systems in place that are more 
robust and suitable for a growing Group, 
aiding decision-making and ensuring that 
information is reported in a consistent 
and timely fashion across the Group.
Outlook
We have significant growth opportunities 
across all our Business Units and are 
continuing to make progress on our 
strategy to be recognised as a leading 
global manufacturer and developer of 
innovative products in the advanced 
woundcare, wound closure and  
surgical markets.
We will continue to invest in growing our 
ActivHeal®, LiquiBand® and RESORBA® 
brands and, with relatively low market 
share, we are confident there are still 
large opportunities available to us.
Our OEM partners remain key to our 
business and we will continue to support 
their efforts with our products, service 
and regulatory know-how.
We are excited by our product pipeline. 
Our Hernia Mesh fixation device is due 
for launch in H1 2014. This will be our first 
product where our medical adhesives will 
be used internally and we believe further 
applications for the use of medical 
adhesives internally will follow. We are 
also enhancing our existing range of 
medical adhesives through 
improvements in applicators and 
developments in our base monomers. 
We expect that our new anti-microbial 
and atraumatic foam dressings will 
provide a significant enhancement to our 
advanced woundcare offering and that 
development of our collagen technology 
will improve our surgical portfolio.
With sound business systems and a 
strong balance sheet, we are in an 
excellent position to make selective 
acquisitions that provide commercial and 
technological synergies for the Group.
With our innovative products, together 
with prospects of capturing increased 
market share in our existing markets and 
our continued support of our OEM 
partners, we are confident that 2014  
will be another year of good growth.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Strategic Report (continued)
