 The Group’s activities are covered under the following headings:
DEFENCE
Countermeasures: Chemring Countermeasures,Alloy Surfaces,
Kilgore, Pains W essex Australia
Military Pyrotechnics: PW Defence, Pains Wessex Australia 
NON-DEFENCE
Marine Safety: McMurdo Marine, ICS Electronics,
McMurdo Pains Wessex, Oroquieta 
Wiring Harnesses: Kembrey Wiring Systems
Chemical Coatings: Alloy Surfaces
TURNOVER BY BUSINESS AREA for the year ended 31 October 2002
OVERVIEW
The Group’s excellent growth since 1998 was stalled this year by the impact of Kilgore’s plant rebuild following
the incident in 2001. However, the defence order book is now at a record high of £78 million, £56 million of
which is for our US countermeasures businesses.
The Kilgore rebuild was completed in May 2002 but subsequent commissioning took longer than anticipated
due to the need to ensure a fully safe process. Kilgore’s sales in the year were only £13 million, against potential
sales of £33 million which were covered by orders.As a result of this and the absence of UK naval contracts, the
turnover of the countermeasures business was down 11% on last year, with a consequential reduction in profitability.
We expect this to be reversed in the future.Total Group turnover was £96.3 million, marginally ahead of 2001.
Our military pyrotechnics and marine safety businesses increased turnover in the year by 38% and 10% respectively.
Kembrey Wiring Systems performed at a similar level to last year.The reduced activity in the civil aviation sector
was offset by increased military aircraft business.
STRATEGY
The Group’s strategy is to increase our recognised market leadership in each of our businesses.We aim to achieve
this through our continuing investment in research and development and manufacturing capabilities, enabling us
to offer innovative, quality and value for money products to our respective markets. Organic growth will be
supported with complementary acquisitions.
DEFENCE BUSINESSES
• COUNTERMEASURES
The Group is the international market leader in the development and manufacture of expendable countermeasures
to protect valuable military platforms.We have a significant operational presence in both the US and the UK,
offering an extensive range of decoys across the RF & IR spectrum, which are capable of combating both legacy
and emerging threats.
Chemical Coatings (£2.0m) 2%
Wiring Harnesses (£9.3m) 10%
Military Pyrotechnics (£17.9m)  19%
Marine Safety (£21.4m) 22%
Countermeasures (£45.7m) 47%
PAGE 5
REVIEW BY THE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 The Group’s countermeasures business further strengthened its market position in the year with the order book
increasing to £66 million, up 24% on 2001.This was achieved despite the difficulties associated with the
implementation of state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, including the fully automated manufacture of
expendables, at US-based Kilgore.Total turnover was £45.7 million in the year, down £5.6 million due to the
issues at Kilgore and anticipated lower demand for naval decoys at Chemring Countermeasures in the UK.
In the US we are the leading provider of IR expendable decoys to the US Department of Defense.
The combined sales of our US countermeasures businesses to the US DoD contributed 24% of total Group
turnover in the year, and with Kilgore now operational this is expected to increase substantially in 2003.
Demand has increased for Alloy Surfaces’ proprietary special material area decoys, particularly for pre-emptive
applications.Alloy Surfaces’ products are critical, leading-edge technology decoys at the heart of all US services’ decoy
programmes, and feature prominently in a number of pre-emptive countermeasures programmes denying a missile
lock-on capability.After extensive testing, special material decoys have been selected as the US Air Force’s advanced
solution to protect fixed-wing transport aircraft, US Army helicopters and US Navy aircraft. Programmes are also in
place with both the US DoD and the UK MoD to provide this pre-emptive capability for frontline combat aircraft.
Kilgore is expanding into land and ship protection. During the year Kilgore was awarded a contract to develop a
range of decoys for armoured vehicle protection, and the business is also supporting the US Navy on advanced
concept IR ship decoys.
Commissioning of the pressed flares facility at Kilgore was completed during the year, and volume deliveries of
pressed flares are now being made to Kilgore’s customers. Export deliveries of extruded flares have also commenced,
and US deliveries will commence in February.The manufacture of pressed flares constitutes approximately 70% of
Kilgore’s decoy sales, with the balance being extruded flares.
Our full decoy product range for the protection of land, sea and air platforms leads the market.The range
includes point source magnesium flares for widely exploited traditional threats, spectrally-matched point source
flares, and area pyrophoric spectral decoys to defeat legacy and new generation anti-platform missiles and threat
systems. Our decoys have been qualified for use on existing and new generation air platforms such as the
European Eurofighter and the US F22 aircraft.
Against a background of increasing use of military aircraft in supporting anti-terrorist activity, improved
protection for transport aircraft and helicopters against the ever-increasing IR Man-Portable Air Defence
Systems (MANPADS) threat is essential. IR decoy flares play a vital role in increasing the self-protection
provided for these platforms.According to official sources, there are an estimated 500,000 shoulder-fired, heat-
seeking missiles in the world.Although most remain in government hands, many have found their way out into
the ‘black market’ arms trade and into the hands of terrorist groups.
The unique Modular Expendable Block (MEB) is an excellent example of the Group’s countermeasures research
and development efforts to provide optimised platform protection.The MEB can incorporate both multi-
spectral IR and RF payloads to increase platform survivability. It is specified on many platforms including the
UK MoD Apache helicopter, the Swiss Cougar helicopter, the Italian Navy EH101 and SH3D helicopters, and
on C130 and F16 aircraft in numerous NATO and non-NATO countries.
The Group continues to invest in research and development as well as production facilities to protect our
prominent position in expendable countermeasures.
• MILITARY PYROTECHNICS
Turnover in the year increased by 38% to £17.9 million, and current demand remains strong for military
pyrotechnics. Sales for the current financial year are more than 50% covered by the opening order book, and the
worldwide spread of orders provides stability and further opportunities for the future.
The collaboration referred to last year with Bück of Germany has resulted in improved joint sales in overseas
markets, and the companies are now jointly progressing new enquiries.
Collaboration between PW Defence and Kilgore has proved successful, with PW Defence assisting Kilgore in
overseas markets and Kilgore assisting PW Defence in the US market.
We continue to support the MoD in its stated aim of achieving long term cost reductions in munitions.As a result
of this initiative, we are assisting the MoD in an end-to-end study of its logistics chain.This activity, together with
associated product and manufacturing improvements, will also benefit PW Defence in its overseas markets.
REVIEW BY THE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
– continued
PAGE 6
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 PW Defence remains an international market leader in providing specialist military pyrotechnic products, used in
illumination, signalling, screening and training.
Increased demand for military vehicle screening products assisted growth during the year.We continue to
maintain our market share in standard military pyrotechnics.
NON-DEFENCE BUSINESSES
• MARINE SAFETY
Turnover increased by 10% to £21.4 million in the year. Sales of electronics increased by 20%, again providing
the growth in this business area and supporting our strategy of investment in developing new electronic products
against known legislation. Our priority going forward is to ensure that profitability matches sales growth.
The Group is a global market leader in providing legislated marine products to aid location and safety, including
location beacons, portable VHF radios, fixed VHF class D radios incorporating Digital Selective Calling (DSC),
Automatic Identification Systems (AIS) transponders, marine location lights and distress signals.
The business is primarily driven by global legislation set by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO)
under its Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) convention.This mandates the carrying of pyrotechnic products and
marine safety lights. Electronic products in support of the legislated Global Maritime Distress and Safety System
(GMDSS) include 406 EPIRBs, SARTs and portable VHF radios.To date the major thrust for our products has
been with the commercial and legislated areas but our extensive range of electronic products is now being
marketed in the leisure sector with considerable acceptance in the US.
The acquisition of ICS Electronics in July 2002 complemented the existing capability of the marine business by
adding MF/HF/VHF radio communications, DSC, Navtex, satellite marine terminals, weather facsimile, weather
satellite systems and coast radio stations to the product range.The ICS Electronics business enhances our already
excellent growth prospects in marine electronics products.
These prospects are supported by new legislation being implemented by the IMO. In December 2002 the IMO
brought forward the deadline for fitting of AIS on ships engaged in international voyages. Now all such ships
over 300 tons, not required to fit AIS at an earlier date, will have to fit AIS at the first safety equipment survey
after 1 July 2004, but in any case not later than 31 December 2004.The deadline for ships not engaged in
international voyages remains at 1 July 2008, but national authorities can move this date forward in their own
waters.The introduction of AIS will assist our growth.
On 25 November 2002, President George Bush signed the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002.
This Act increases the number of vessels to be fitted with AIS when operating in the navigable waters of the US.
This represents a significant opportunity for the Group’s marine business with an estimated overall market
opportunity of £100 million over the next two years.
Demand for our 406MHz products remains high, with our award winning EPIRB with integral Global
Positioning System (GPS) selling well, particularly in the US. During the year, we received a five year supply
contract from the US Coast Guard for our 406MHz Personal Locating Beacon (PLB).This product will become
standard equipment for every US Coast Guard boat crewmember, and other government authorities are now
adopting the product.
We are holding our market share on marine distress pyrotechnics and lights, although demand generally is not
increasing in these markets.
The combination of new electronic products which are being introduced and significant market opportunities
offers our marine business continuing growth prospects over the coming years.
• WIRING HARNESSES
Kembrey Wiring Systems (Kembrey) is the largest independent UK manufacturer of high specification cable
harnesses for the aerospace industry. It has an excellent reputation for supplying quality wiring systems to
manufacturers of airframe and aircraft engines. During the year Kembrey expanded its role by providing
engineering and logistics services to its customers.
PAGE 7
REVIEW BY THE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
– continued
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 Turnover was £9.3 million in the year, at a similar level to last year, which is a good result against the general
downturn in the civil aviation sector. Increased sales of military aircraft wiring harnesses compensated for the
downturn in the civil aviation business.
Following a competitive tender instigated by Rolls-Royce for the majority of its aero engine wiring harnesses,
Kembrey was awarded a five year contract, which is expected to increase current annual sales to Rolls-Royce by
£3 million.This increase should offset delays in the Nimrod programme.
• CHEMICAL COATINGS
Alloy Surfaces has a niche market in supplying special chemicals to the aerospace sector for use in diffusion
coating of engine components, and demand is expected to continue at current levels.
D R EVANS – Chief Executive
3 February 2003
REVIEW BY THE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
– continued
PAGE 8
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002
