 I am delighted to report another year of outstanding
performance following the excellent profits generated in
2006. Underlying profit before tax* increased 64% and
earnings per share increased 56% to £53.2 million 
(2006: £32.5 million) and 112p (2006: 72p) respectively. Profit
before tax and earnings per share on continuing operations
increased by 57% and 50% respectively. The Board is
recommending a final dividend of 17 .8p, giving a total for the
year of 25.0p, an increase of 56% over last year .
Both our operating divisions, Countermeasures and
Energetics, performed strongly and achieved record years. 
The Group maintained its position as the world’s leading
manufacturer of countermeasure decoys, with over 50%
market share, including a commanding presence in the vital
US market. Our competitors, inevitably, challenge us at
every opportunity but our recognition of their activities, the
strength of our research and development and new
products, and our investment in the latest manufacturing
technologies continues to strengthen our order book for
future years.  
Our Energetics activities expanded rapidly through a
combination of organic and acquisitive growth. This division
now manufactures a broad portfolio of explosive and
pyrotechnic ordnance, with twelve factories in seven
countries. It has also become a vital supplier to the major
prime contractors in a widely fragmented industry, whilst
becoming a prime contractor in its own right. During the
year the Group completed the acquisitions of 
Simmel Difesa in Italy, Dyno Nobel’s High Energy Materials
business in Norway (now trading as Chemring Nobel), and
the remaining 49% shareholding in Pirotécnia Oroquieta in
Spain. The total value of these acquisitions was £57 million,
of which £50.2 million was satisfied in cash and 
£6.8 million by the issue of new shares in the Company.
Since the year end, the Group has acquired Richmond
Electronics & Engineering Limited in the UK for £11 million.
The acquisition was funded utilising existing bank facilities.  
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW
Our operating companies continued to deliver a very strong
cash flow of £60.6 million (2006: £45.6 million), which has
enabled us to fund the majority of acquisitions for debt,
whilst maintaining a debt/equity ratio of 80% (2006: 75%)
and interest cover on underlying operating profit* of 
8 times (2006: 6 times).
The Board has been cognisant for some time of the
continuing development of our activities in the US, and the
probability that the US would be a major source of both our
organic and acquisitive growth in the future. Accordingly, in
November 2007 the Company completed a $150 million
private placement in the US of ten year fixed interest loan
notes, with an interest rate of approximately 6.30%.
COUNTERMEASURES
During the year , Alloy Surfaces completed the
commissioning of its third plant in the US. In the UK,
Chemring Countermeasures, which has enjoyed
considerable success with its new spectral flares and is the
sole source supplier of countermeasure flares for the
Typhoon, has commissioned a major new production plant
at its base in Salisbury. 
Kilgore’s performance during the year was affected by
composition difficulties in two products - not an unknown
problem in our industry, and delays on product lot
acceptances due to external factors in the final month of
the year which affected revenue recognition. However ,
Kilgore has significantly increased its order book,
particularly as it is the supplier of flares for the new Raptor
and Joint Strike Fighter . This business is expected to have
the greatest growth in the Countermeasures division over
the next five years.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007  3
Statement 
by the Chairman ENERGETICS
At the half year , I stated that the Energetics division faced
challenges in developing an effective organisational
structure, rationalising production plants and strengthening
its international sales capability. These objectives are
ongoing. With regards to the organisational structure, the
management has concentrated on finding appropriately
qualified personnel, both at divisional level and in the
individual subsidiaries, to promote our substantial product
offering. The benefits of these appointments will start to
come through in 2008. I am delighted to say that the
production rationalisation programme is also progressing
very well. 
Our strategy to grow this division is proving successful,
with revenue for the year now exceeding that of the
Countermeasures division. 
GROUP STRATEGY
Our Group strategy remains unchanged. We will continue to
concentrate on our two divisions - Countermeasures, where
we are the world leader , and Energetics, where, in a sector
with many fragmented businesses, we are becoming a
major force. It is possible that, as this latter division
expands, one of the individual product categories within it
might justify its establishment as a separate third division.
Our intentions are to continue to grow organically and,
where possible, by acquisition. We are committed to
expansion in both divisions, and are currently planning to
establish additional manufacturing facilities in certain chosen
countries, including India and the Far East. I expect this latter
development to take three to five years to achieve.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
As previously reported, an explosion occurred at our 
Simmel Difesa site in Italy on 9 October 2007 . Very
regrettably, this resulted in one fatality and injuries to several
other employees. The Board is committed to ensuring that
incidents such as this do not recur in the future, and the
provision of a safe working environment for all our employees
remains a critical feature of the Group’s development. 
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND
OTHER NON-EXECUTIVE
APPOINTMENTS
There have been no changes to the composition of the
Board since I last reported. I believe its current membership
is appropriate for the size of the Group and the skills
required for proper corporate governance. As we continue
to grow, the directors will reflect on future requirements.
A number of our overseas subsidiaries are, of course,
supported by non-executive directors appointed specifically
for their contributions in individual countries. In the US, for
example, our Group has the support of five prominent US
citizens, three of whom are retired Generals or Admirals
who contribute fully to the success of the US operations.
The same philosophy is currently adopted in Australia, and
is planned for Italy.
PENSIONS
In previous reports I have stated my confidence that we
would address future funding requirements for the Group’s
UK defined benefit pension plans without any material
change to the financial contributions currently made by the
Group, as we believe that the existing funds are adequate to
meet their obligations. I am happy to report that the 2006
valuation for the Executive Pension Scheme has been
successfully completed and submitted to the Pension
Regulator . We hope to conclude our discussions with the
trustees of the Staff Pension Scheme in the next few weeks.
The Group introduced a new defined contribution scheme
for UK employees during the year , and take-up of
membership has been very encouraging to date. 
4 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
Statement by the Chairman
(CONTINUED) DIVIDENDS
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17 .8p per
ordinary share, a 59% increase on the final dividend for
2006. This, together with the interim dividend of 7 .2p paid
in July 2007 , gives a total dividend for the year of 25.0p, a
56% increase over 2006. The dividend is over four times
covered on net profits of the continuing operations. The
shares will be marked “ex dividend” on 26 March 2008 and
the dividend is payable on 18 April 2008 to shareholders on
the register at the close of business on 28 March 2008.  
PROSPECTS
The Board remains committed to delivering total
shareholder value, through the generation of strong after
tax profits and a progressive dividend policy. Our strategy
has already proved very successful, with over 50%
earnings and dividend growth in both of the last two years.
The Board believes it can continue with this strategy and
produce further above average growth. Next year we
expect to see continuing growth in our Countermeasures
business, and the ongoing development of Energetics, as
this division starts to realise its full potential. We believe
the Group is ideally placed to participate in the
consolidation of this fragmented energetics industry.
Inevitably, questions are often raised concerning the
longevity of both the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts.
Adjustments in procurement will eventually take place but
our healthy order book and knowledge of military
requirements gives us confidence in our long term future.
We look forward to the 2008 financial year and are
confident that it will be another year of strong
performance. 
K C SCOBIE
CHAIRMAN
22 JANUARY 2008
* Excludes intangible amortisation arising from business combinations of 
£3.4 million (2006: £0.7million)
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007  5
