 GROUP RESULTS
The Group performed strongly throughout the year and
revenue from continuing operations increased 36% to
£254.7 million. 16% of this growth was achieved from our
existing businesses, 9% from the full year trading of
acquisitions made in 2006 and 11% from the two
acquisitions completed in 2007 . The Countermeasures
division increased its sales to record levels, in spite of a
frustrating performance from Kilgore and the adverse
impact of the continuing weakness of the dollar . The
Energetics division had another excellent year , achieving an
85% increase in revenue, and for the first time generating
revenue in excess of the Countermeasures division.  
Underlying operating margins* for the Group continued to
improve and by the year end reached 24%. Enhanced
automation, process improvements and the rationalisation
of both products and manufacturing locations, particularly
within the Energetics division, continued to improve our
performance. Consequently, underlying operating profit*
rose strongly by 59% to £61.2 million. 
The operating cash inflow during the year was excellent at
£60.6 million, equivalent to a cash conversion rate from
underlying operating profit* of 99%. Capital expenditure
increased 43% to £14.6 million as the Group continued to
invest significantly in improved automation and additional
manufacturing facilities. Investment in company funded
research and development (R&D) also increased 69% to
£5.4 million but still represented only 2.1% of Group
revenue. This will be augmented in 2008 by a new five year
research partnership with the Defence Academy and
Cranfield University, which will focus on our longer term
technology and product requirements.
At the year end, the Group had an excellent order book of
£297 million, some 39% higher than the previous year . This
record level of order cover continues to underpin the
prospects for 2008. I am also delighted to report that the
order book for the Energetics division was £177 .8 million,
111% higher than the previous year , creating a solid
foundation for continued strong growth in the future.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
On 9 October 2007 , an explosion occurred when a white
light composition ignited whilst being mixed in a remote
operation in a manufacturing building at the Simmel Difesa
site in Colleferro, Italy. The product which was being made
is used for the illumination of battlefields, and had been
manufactured in the facility for more than ten years
without incident. Tragically, there was one fatality, two 
non-life threatening injuries and nine people were taken to
hospital suffering from shock and distress. A detailed
investigation into the incident has been undertaken in full
co-operation with the authorities, and we await the final
conclusions from the authorities before access to the
affected building is granted.
6 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
Review 
by the Chief Executive
43%
1%
7%
10%
24%
USA
UK
Europe
Middle East
Far East
Rest of World
15%
Revenue by destination (2007) As referred to last year , the Group is committed to
achieving the highest levels of safety in both its products
and its manufacturing facilities. Significant investment in
automated manufacturing with remote operation continues,
in line with our commitment to reduce operator risk, and all
levels of management have been tasked with continuously
improving our levels of safety.  The Board remains focused
on reducing the risks to as low a level as reasonably
practicable, and will continue to invest in improved
processes and the new capital facilities that can achieve
this.  
COUNTERMEASURES
■ Orders: £123.0 million
■ Revenue: £126.5 million
■ Operating profit: £38.6 million
■ Operating margin: 30%
The global expendable countermeasures market continued
to grow in 2007 and is now estimated at £237 million, an
increase over the previous year of just over 10%, in spite of
the adverse impact of the dollar depreciation against sterling
of approximately 10%. Revenue from our Countermeasures
division, however , grew by only 7% year-on-year , reflecting
the slightly lower than expected sales volumes achieved by
Kilgore in the second half of the year . The record demand for
our decoys continues to be driven principally by the threat
from shoulder-launched missiles to the helicopters and
transport aircraft used by the US, UK and other coalition
forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK business, had another
excellent year , generating £31.1 million of revenue, which
was 40% higher than the previous year . This growth was
driven by the successful qualification and production of our
new spectral flare for use by the UK and coalition partners.
Construction and qualification of a new special purpose
facility was achieved over a five month period, and full
production output of in excess of 20,000 spectral flares per
month was consistently delivered throughout the second
half of the year - a tremendous achievement. During the
year , further spectral flare variants were developed and
flight-tested for combat and transport aircraft applications.
We expect production of a number of these new flares to
begin shortly.
Production of conventional flare types also reached record
levels. The first batches of flares for Typhoon were
delivered to all of the participating nations and a number of
significant export contracts are expected shortly. We also
continued to deliver chaff and flares to India as part of a
multi-year contract for protecting the Indian Air Force
Mirage 2000 aircraft. This contract follows on from our
previous programme to supply the Indian Air Force with
flares for its Mig-29 combat aircraft.
During the year , there was increased interest shown in
naval countermeasures, particularly from NATO countries
looking to operate in littoral waters. Chaff rounds were
delivered to Spain and Australia, and advanced CHIMERA
rounds were supplied to Norway.  Furthermore, four new
contracts for Spain, Norway, Romania and Chile were won
against fierce competition. These successes have
broadened our customer base and reflect our increasing
market position for 130mm naval munitions.
Alloy Surfaces also had an excellent year , generating record
levels of production and $132.1 million of revenue, which
was over 14% higher than in the previous year . Production
of the M211 decoy for the US Army continued at a high rate
and over 800,000 units were delivered to schedule
throughout the year . Alloy Surfaces also secured a 
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007  7 $20 million contract from the UK Ministry of Defence for
the supply of BOL/IR special material decoys for use on
Harrier and Tornado aircraft, with a further $20 million
option to cover any surge requirement. Negotiations with
the US Air Force, US Navy and US Army on multi-year
contracts, covering seven of the eight most important
special material decoys, have all started. The US Navy
awarded an initial two year contract for the supply of 
MJU-49 decoys and has continued discussions to create a
five year contract for all of its major products. The 
US Air Force and US Army negotiations for five year
contracts have progressed but have been delayed by the
protracted discussions on budgets that have taken place
between the Department of Defense and Congress. These
new contracts are all expected to be finalised during 2008.
Kilgore had a rather frustrating year , even though it
generated a record level of revenue at $67 .4 million. This
was 1% higher than last year but about $15 million lower
than expected.
Revenue growth was impacted as a result of two factors:
Kilgore’s high volume conventional flare programs
encountered several minor manufacturing problems that
took time to resolve, and the production of three new
products encountered a number of technical problems
associated with the start of volume manufacturing,
including the lack of timely availability of test aircraft to
complete the flight qualification.
In spite of these set backs Kilgore managed to capture a
record $98 million of orders, of which $72 million related to
its countermeasures business and $26 million to its
energetics business. This resulted in a year end order book
of $99 million, 44% higher than in 2006. This will provide a
solid foundation for improvement in 2008. Kilgore was also
hugely successful in securing, against fierce competition, a
contract from the US Navy, for the manufacture of 100% of
the advanced flares for the F-18 aircraft. A review of the
design and technical data has now been completed and first
article testing is scheduled during the first half of 2008.
Kilgore also successfully completed the first article test
activities on the flares for the F-22 aircraft, as a direct
contractor to the US Air Force. The first production
deliveries have commenced on schedule, and construction
of a high volume production facility is well underway, which
should be completed by the end of the first half of 2008. A
contract worth $12 million for the second year of
production was awarded in September 2007 .  
ENERGETICS
■ Orders: £172.0 million
■ Revenue: £128.2 million
■ Operating profit: £27 .9 million 
■ Operating margin: 22% 
During the year , the operational management of 
PW Defence in the UK, Comet in Germany and 
Pirotécnia Oroquieta in Spain was combined to create a
pan-European pyrotechnic business, Chemring Defence,
with a coherent sales network and new 
centres-of-excellence for manufacturing that are delivering
benefits of scale on distinct families of products.  
Chemring Defence UK had an excellent year , with record
levels of production and revenue of £23.9 million, almost
100% higher than in 2006. Strong export growth was
achieved in the Middle East with sales to Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar . The successful management of
our first prime contract was a notable milestone during the
year and has resulted in the placement of follow-on
contracts. A major success was also achieved in the US
towards the end of the year , when a five year IDIQ
(indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity) contract, worth up
to $78 million, was placed by the US Army for 66mm 
non-lethal Vehicle-launched Discharge Grenades.
Chemring Defence Germany (formerly Comet) secured
major contracts for both its ordnance-clearance and
battlefield training products. The UK, Australia and several
Eastern European countries all placed contracts for
substantial numbers of the PEMBS ordnance-clearance
system, which has now established itself as the leading
portable ordnance-clearance system in the world. Our
MECS (multiple effect cartridge system) battlefield
simulation ammunition is now in-service with the US, UK,
and a number of other countries. Our performance under
the US Army contract is delighting the customer and
deliveries are now running at about 700,000 units per year .
Furthermore, the US Army has ordered 1,400 more
launchers to increase training, and has recently qualified
black and yellow smoke variants to broaden their weapon
effects options. We have also recently completed
development of an IED-simulator kit and a number of
systems have been bought by the US Army for qualification
purposes. This simulator is intended to be used at squad,
platoon and company level for realistic training in urban
operations, such as check point and convoy training.
The operational management of Nobel Energetics and
Leafield Engineering were also combined during the year to
8 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
Review by the Chief Executive 
(CONTINUED) form a new business, Chemring Energetics, which becomes
the UK centre-of-excellence for demolition stores, ceremonial
ammunition, detonators, actuators and pyro-mechanisms.
The new business generated record revenue of £22.7 million,
22% higher than in 2006. Sales of metron actuators
increased 36% and sales of demolition stores 35%, whilst
sales of NLAW flight and launch motors increased 65% as
full production was finally started. A rocket motor grain for
70mm air-launched rockets was also developed and is
expected to complete qualification by April 2008. 
Technical Ordnance also performed well in the first full year
of ownership, with record revenue of $45.6 million,
compared with the $34 million generated in the twelve
months prior to acquisition. Good progress was made in the
development of strategic partnering with the three US
ammunition prime contractors, ATK, General Dynamics and
L3. ATK, in particular , has significantly increased the
volume of explosive pellet and fuze components ordered
from Technical Ordnance. During the year , Technical
Ordnance was awarded production contracts, from two
prime contractors, for the supply of M55 detonators for use
in 40mm rifle-launched grenades used by the US Army.
Three new production stations are currently being qualified
and are expected to achieve 900,000 units per month by
the end of April 2008.
Kilgore increased its sales of pyrotechnics and munitions by
68% compared with 2006.  During the year , Kilgore
successfully completed factory acceptance test activities on
the MK4 practice bomb cartridge, and produced and
delivered over 450,000 units. Kilgore was also awarded a 
$30 million, five year IDIQ contract for both the MK58 and
the MK25 marine location markers directly from the US Navy.
BDL Systems also had a good year , completing its fourth
contract to supply a Far Eastern customer with equipment
and facilities for handling unexploded ordnance and
roadside bombs. BDL Systems also completed development
of its next generation initiation system (BREACH), which is
primarily designed for the “explosive means-of-entry”
market and makes use of the latest securely coded data
transmission techniques. The system has attracted great
interest in the US and NATO countries, and is expected to
generate significant sales over the next few years.
Chemring Marine completed the consolidation of the
manufacturing of marine distress signals in Germany during
2007 . The increased volumes and the use of automated
manufacturing has significantly improved efficiency and
substantially improved the profitability of the business.
During the year , two major worldwide agreements were
signed with the major liferaft suppliers, Viking and 
RFD Beaufort, for the supply of our commercial distress signals. 
In March, we announced the acquisition of Simmel Difesa,
based in Colleferro, Italy.  Simmel Difesa is a key supplier of
energetics sub-systems, such as fuzes, safety and arming
systems, warheads and modular charge systems, for major
ammunition prime contractors around the world. The
company is also a specialist manufacturer of medium and
large calibre ammunition, rockets and illumination mortar
rounds for a substantial number of NATO and non-NATO
armed forces. It also has a second site in Anagni, Italy,
where it has a specialist facility for the disposal of
ordnance at the end of its operational life.
In spite of the accident in October , Simmel Difesa achieved
all of its 2007 objectives and delivered all of the 81mm
white light and black light illuminating mortar rounds
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007  9 required for use in Afghanistan. Production of the
illumination canister will restart by the end of 
February 2008. A new multi-year contract for the continued
supply of both types of illuminating ammunition is currently
under negotiation. Simmel Difesa has also recently secured
a major contract, worth d26 million, to supply high
explosive anti-tank ammunition to a NATO country.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Countermeasures
The market outlook for our expendable countermeasures
business continues to be positive.  Over the next three years,
we believe that the global market is likely to expand at just
over 20% per annum, driven by the continued demand from
the US Army and the US Air Force’s requirements for the
protection of helicopters, transport aircraft and advanced
flares for air-superiority combat aircraft. 
In Iraq, the US “surge” operation appears to have enhanced
security and allowed the Iraqi army to take over the
majority of peacekeeping activities. The US Department of
Defense has indicated that significant combat troop
withdrawals may take place towards the end of 2008.
However , the US still expects to support the Iraqi army with
helicopters and transport aircraft for the movement of
troops across the country, and to provide rapid reaction
combat troops to support the Iraqis when required.
In Afghanistan, the number of NATO troops increased to
43,000 during the last six months, and are reported to be
conducting extensive operations against the insurgents
across the south of the country at the border with Pakistan.
NATO commanders are also expected to bolster the force
with additional troops currently allocated to Iraq. Both the
10 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
Review by the Chief Executive 
(CONTINUED)
26%
7%
8%
13%
5%
13%
13%
1%
Alloy Surfaces
Kilgore
Chemring 
Countermeasures
Chemring
Australia
Armtec Defense
Wallop Defence
Systems
Thiokol
IMI
Other
14%
Market Shares (2007)
Total Market - £237 million
OUTLOOK FOR COUNTERMEASURES 
Global Market
UK
US Air
Force
US Navy
US Army
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
*All figures based on program funding plans and estimates of key export markets
Growth rate: 
20% per year to 2010
£ million
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Exports UK Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defense
continue to stress the long term nature of these operations
in Afghanistan.  
Current UN operations, excluding Iraq and Afghanistan,
now involve more than 140,000 troops. The deployment of
helicopters and transport aircraft to support these
operations will be needed to provide greater operational
flexibility and effectiveness.  Demand for decoys is,
therefore, expected to continue.
A number of important aircraft will enter service over the
next ten years. In Europe, the introduction of Typhoon will
have a major impact on demand for decoys, particularly for
advanced technologies against sophisticated surface-to-air
or air-to-air threats. However , the biggest growth is
expected to be in the US market where procurement of
advanced flares for all its major combat aircraft, namely
the F-18, F-22 and the F-35, is planned. The Group is the
lead contractor for the manufacture of flares for all of
these platforms and is, therefore, extremely well placed to
exploit these opportunities as the requirements grow.
Energetics – Pyrotechnics and explosive
ordnance disposal (EOD)
The global market for pyrotechnics and EOD is estimated to
be approximately £3 billion per annum. In 2007 , the Group’s
revenue in this sector was £7 4.8 million, which represents a
2.5% market share. The market remains fragmented with a
large number of small players, many of whom are nationally
focused and with limited product ranges. There are,
therefore, many opportunities for growth.
In battlefield training, the Group is building on its strong
position with the MECS technology and is developing a low
weight, modular battlefield effects simulator which is
adaptable to combat vehicles for force-on-force training, as
well as for simulating hits in force-on-target live fire
training.  Saab Training Systems have adopted the
technology as standard and we are in discussion with the
US Army on qualification for the US market.
The development of new initiator technology will also help
BDL Systems to penetrate both the US and NATO EOD
markets. BDL Systems is currently completing development
of a new timer answer back system (TABS) that provides
long-range two-way radio-frequency initiation with remote
programmable time delay and reliable sterilisation
capabilities. TABS and BREACH are expected to have a
major impact on the global market over the next few years.
In November 2007 , we announced the acquisition of
Richmond Electronics & Engineering Limited. Richmond,
which is based in the UK, is a supplier of EOD equipment
which complements that provided by BDL Systems. It
produces disrupters which fire a water jet or projectile into
the firing circuit of an explosive device to neutralise it
without detonation. Its patented recoilless disrupters and
its proprietary laser-aimed weapons carriers are fitted to
most of the leading US and UK bomb disposal robots.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007  11 Energetics – Munitions
The global market for munitions is approximately 
£10 billion per annum. In 2007 , the Group’s revenue in this
segment was £53.4 million, representing only 0.5%.
However , our acquisition of Simmel Difesa significantly
enhances our position in the market, and we believe that
there are major opportunities for growth at both the prime
contract and component supplier level.
Simmel Difesa is a world leader in naval ammunition and is
currently well placed to expand its position in the 76mm
market over the next few years. Qualification of the
76/62mm naval round for the Franco-Italian FREMM
programme is scheduled for early 2008 and production is
expected to quickly follow. The Group is also working with
Oto Melara and Alliant Techsystems to introduce an
Insensitive Munition (IM) variant into the US market.
Simmel Difesa expects to complete qualification of its
155mm modular charge system in the first half of 2008.
The Group expects there to be significant opportunities for
this technology and is exploring a number of strategic
partnerships to access key non-NATO markets.
Overall, the future outlook remains encouraging and many
opportunities exist for growth. The Group has a strong
order book, which today stands at a record level of 
£401 million, up 35% since the year end and up 63% since
January 2007 . The Board remains confident that the
prospects for the Group in 2008 continue to be excellent.
DR D J PRICE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
22 JANUARY 2008
* Excludes intangible amortisation arising from business combinations of 
£3.4 million (2006: £0.7 million)
12 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
Review by the Chief Executive 
(CONTINUED)
