 K C Scobie
CHAIRMAN
Once again I have the pleasure to announce another year of excellent performance, with a 39% 
increase in underlying proﬁ t before tax* to £74.2 million and a 43% increase in underlying earnings 
per share* to 160p.
 
The Board has given careful consideration to an appropriate dividend payment in the current 
economic environment but with the continuing strong growth in the Group’s earnings, record cash 
ﬂ ow and a solid balance sheet, the Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 25p. This gives a total 
for the year of 35p, an increase of 40% over last year.
Statement by the Chairman
 Results
 
2008
£m
 
2007
£m
 
2006
£m
 
2005
£m
 Total revenue 354.2 254.7 187.7 121.0
  Underlying operating proﬁ t*
 – continuing operations
 – acquired
 
 79.6
 5.3
 
 61.2
            -
 
 38.5
            -
 
 22.9
            -
  Underlying proﬁ t before tax* 74.2 53.2 32.5 19.2
  Operating proﬁ t 68.4 57.8 37.8 22.9
  Proﬁ t before tax 57.7 49.8 31.8 19.2
  Underlying basic earnings 
per ordinary share*
160p 112p 72p 47p
  Basic earnings per
ordinary share
123p 105p 70p 47p
2 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
43% increase 
in underlying 
earnings per 
share* to 160p During the year, the Group acquired 
Richmond Electronics & Engineering Limited in 
the UK and completed three further acquisitions 
in the US – Scot, Inc., Martin Electronics, Inc. and 
Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. The acquisition 
of Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 
(NIITEK) was completed in December 2008. 
These acquisitions were funded by £12 million 
in cash, utilising existing bank facilities, and the 
issue of £61 million equity. Each of the acquired 
businesses further strengthen the Group’s 
presence in our target markets. 
The Energetics division grew strongly, with 
revenue increasing by 54% to £196.7 million 
and underlying operating proﬁ t increasing 
by 64% to £45.7 million, now making it 
our largest division in revenue and proﬁ t 
terms. Countermeasures had a record year, 
driven by an exceptional performance from 
Chemring Countermeasures in the UK and 
strong revenue growth at Kilgore in the US.
A reconciliation of the underlying results to the 
statutory results is set out in the Review by the 
Finance Director on page 15.
Balance sheet, cash ﬂ ow and debt
At this time of global economic and monetary 
stress, shareholders will inevitably be concerned 
to ensure that the Company’s funding position is 
secure and adequate for both current and future 
plans. In recent years, the Board has focused 
on ensuring that the Group had a sound cash 
position and debt structure. This strategy has 
proved to be beneﬁ cial. 
In November 2007 the Company completed 
a $150 million private placement in the US 
of ten year ﬁ xed interest loan notes, with 
an interest rate of approximately 6.30%. 
In August 2008, although the Company had 
sufﬁ cient bank facilities to acquire Scot and 
Martin Electronics for cash, the Company issued 
new equity to raise £60 million. This helped to 
reduce the Group’s gearing, which now stands 
at 51% (2007: 80%), and enabled the Group 
to maintain a good level of headroom on its 
established bank facilities. 
With a record operating cash ﬂ ow of 
£83.7 million in the year, the expectation 
that this trend will continue in 2009 and an 
easily managed debt repayment proﬁ le, the 
Board believes that the Group has more than 
adequate ﬁ nancial resources to meet its current 
expansion plans, including signiﬁ cant planned 
capital expenditure and continuing research 
and development investment.
Energetics
The Group is driving forward its programme 
of product and plant reorganisation within its 
production facilities in the UK, Germany, Italy, 
Norway, Spain, Australia and the US, whilst 
continuing to grow revenue and earnings to 
record levels. The expansion of our Energetics 
activities is enabling an increasing number 
of our product components to be sourced 
internally, particularly in those parts of 
the business where technology transfer 
restrictions across national borders are not 
as stringent as have historically applied in the 
countermeasures business.
 CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN 3
Record operating 
cash ﬂ ow of 
£83.7 million Of particular signiﬁ cance during the year 
was the development of our training 
rounds business, where the combination of 
Chemring Defence (formerly Comet) in Germany 
and Titan Dynamics Systems in the US makes 
the Group the clear market leader in the area of 
battleﬁ eld simulation products. Titan’s products, 
in particular, are in great demand in the US. 
The Group has also expanded its capabilities 
in the supply of equipment for detecting and 
responding to improvised explosives devices 
(IEDs), unexploded ordnance clearance and 
demilitarisation of munitions. With Chemring EOD 
in the UK (comprising BDL Systems and 
Richmond) and with the recent addition of 
NIITEK in the US, the Group now has a signiﬁ cant 
presence in this sector. In NIITEK we believe 
we have acquired the world’s foremost vehicle 
mounted mine detection system. 
Countermeasures
Our UK business, Chemring Countermeasures, 
followed its record achievement in 2007 
with another record year, delivering growth 
in revenue of 37%. Although the business 
continues to sell and export a wide range of 
decoys, its recent success emanates principally 
from the development of a spectral ﬂ are for the 
UK armed forces. This ﬂ are, which is in great 
demand, has a number of export variants which 
it is anticipated will generate excellent sales in 
the immediate future.
Kilgore, which is in a very strong position as the 
designated supplier of advanced ﬂ ares for new 
aircraft such as the F-22 and the Joint Strike 
Fighter, also had a record year, with growth 
in revenue of 48%. However, the business 
was affected by delays in customer testing 
of certain products, which resulted in some 
revenue and margin being deferred into the ﬁ rst 
quarter of the current ﬁ nancial year. During 
the year Kilgore commissioned a new advanced 
ﬂ are production facility. 
Alloy Surfaces, the most proﬁ table business 
in the Countermeasures division, had another 
solid year of earnings and cash generation. 
However, we have had to recognise that 
its dramatic growth in recent years cannot 
continue indeﬁ nitely, and we anticipate more 
modest growth for the next few years pending 
the introduction of the next generation of 
special material decoys. 
The strong relationship between our two 
US businesses and the US Department of 
Defense has developed further over the last 
year and culminated in the award of several 
ﬁ ve year IDIQ (Indeﬁ nite Delivery, Indeﬁ nite 
Quantity) contracts, with a total value of up to 
$731 million. Whereas these may not necessarily 
translate into committed orders in that quantum 
over the next ﬁ ve year period, it does give a 
clear indication of the long term potential of our 
expendable countermeasures business.
During the year, our Australian business was 
awarded a ten year contract by the Australian 
Government, worth A$160 million (£67 million), 
for the supply of a range of countermeasures 
and pyrotechnics. This is a great success and 
establishes us as the principal supplier of 
these products in the region. As part of the 
arrangement, we have committed to building 
a new, state-of-the-art decoy manufacturing 
facility near Melbourne, as well as creating a 
research and development centre for the design 
of future products.
Group strategy
Our Group strategy remains unchanged. We will 
continue to concentrate on our two segments 
of Energetics and Countermeasures, combining 
organic growth with acquisitions which ﬁ t our 
designated market sectors and product offering. 
With the continuing development of the Group 
around the world, the Board has identiﬁ ed 
the need to strengthen the senior executive 
team with the appointment of a third divisional 
managing director. This individual will head up 
the Group’s international business outside of the 
UK, Europe and the US; in particular, in Australia, 
India, Korea, Japan and the Middle East.
The Group already has customers in India, 
Korea and Japan but we believe that permanent 
production facilities in each of these countries 
will be required in the future in order to 
maintain and increase our presence in both 
Countermeasures and Energetics. We recognise 
that in these countries some form of joint 
venture is likely to be the required structure. 
Health and safety
The Group has not only maintained its 
commitment to health and safety throughout 
the year but has recently strengthened it 
through the appointment of a new senior 
executive to concentrate full time on all aspects 
of this discipline. The new Group Director 
of Safety is now a member of the Executive 
Committee which runs the day to day activities 
of the Group. In a Group which works every day 
with sensitive, explosive materials, our attention 
to the protection of our employees cannot be 
emphasised enough.
Statement by the Chairman
CONTINUED
In NIITEK we 
believe we 
have acquired 
the world’s 
foremost 
vehicle mounted 
mine detection 
system
4 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Board of directors
The composition of the Board in terms of the 
number of members, their length of service and 
their skills is kept under continuing review. The 
Board does not consider that there is any need 
for immediate action.
Staff and employees
In recent years we have grown to over 3,000 
employees across the world. Although this is 
still not a large number in terms of international 
businesses, it has been a rapid increase for 
the Group. In these difﬁ cult economic times, 
it is understandable that employees may be 
apprehensive over the security of their jobs. In 
this statement, I have attempted to set out my 
convictions for the future of the Group and its 
current sound ﬁ nancial position. The Board can 
set the scene and determine the “big picture” 
for the Group but it needs the commitment of all 
members of staff and employees to deliver that 
potential. If we do so, as we have done in the 
past, our employees can feel comfortable about 
their continuing employment prospects. 
The Board extends its thanks to all employees, 
including those in recently acquired companies, 
for their efforts that have made 2008 another 
very successful year for the Group.
Pensions
Whilst the assets held by our deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
pension schemes have inevitably been impacted 
by the recent fall in stock markets, the deﬁ cit on 
the schemes is not signiﬁ cant in the context of 
the Group and we remain comfortable with the 
future funding requirements.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 
25p per ordinary share, a 40% increase on the 
ﬁ nal dividend for 2007. This, together with the 
interim dividend of 10p paid in August 2008, 
gives a total dividend for the year of 35p, a 
40% increase over 2007. The dividend is over 
4.6 times covered on underlying proﬁ ts after 
tax of the continuing operations. The shares 
will be marked “ex dividend” on 25 March 2009 
and the dividend is payable on 17 April 2009 
to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 27 March 2009.
Prospects
Our ongoing commitment to delivering total 
shareholder return has inevitably been 
restricted by the performance of the Company’s 
shares, although I believe that shareholders will 
recognise that the external inﬂ uences of the 
economic and ﬁ nancial dramas were outside of 
our control. In the circumstances, I believe our 
share price has held up relatively well compared 
to the stock market as a whole. 
The Board has examined thoroughly not only 
the plans for the current year but also the 
next ﬁ ve years, and whilst recognising that 
we cannot remain completely immune to 
economic recession, we are convinced that 
our growth strategy, consistent with that 
articulated in previous years, is still soundly 
based. Furthermore, as mentioned earlier in 
this statement, we believe that the Group has 
adequate ﬁ nancial resources to deliver
this strategy.
We enter 2009 with an excellent order book, an 
Energetics division growing rapidly but still in its 
youth, and several newly-acquired businesses 
determined to show the Group what they can 
achieve. The Countermeasures division will 
continue to produce solid earnings and cash ﬂ ow.
 
As a leading defence business, the issues 
associated with the current military operations 
around the world make many judgments difﬁ cult 
but looking to the future of the Group, these 
international tensions do not make the world 
look a safer place. In rapidly changing economic 
circumstances there are many imponderables 
which could affect the outcome for the next year. 
However, once again I believe we will experience 
another year of above average growth, with 
all-round solid ﬁ nancial performance.
K C Scobie
CHAIRMAN
20 January 2009
I believe we 
will experience 
another year of 
above average 
growth
* Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations
and loss on fair value movements on derivatives of £16.5 million (2007: £3.4 million)
 CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN 5
