 6 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
Dr D J Price
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Group results
The Group performed strongly throughout the 
year and revenue from continuing operations 
increased by 39% to £354.2 million. Growth of 
17% was achieved from our existing businesses, 
14% from the full year trading of acquisitions 
made in 2007 and 8% from the four 
acquisitions completed in 2008. The Energetics 
division had another excellent year, achieving 
a 54% increase in revenue to a record level 
of £196.7 million, in spite of a disappointing 
performance from our US subsidiary, 
Technical Ordnance. The Countermeasures 
division increased its sales to a record level of 
£157.5 million, with very strong growth at both 
Kilgore and Chemring Countermeasures in the 
UK. The second half performance of the Group 
was particularly good, generating £204 million 
of revenue, £57 million of underlying operating 
proﬁ t* and £75 million of operating cash ﬂ ow.
 
Underlying operating margins* for the Group 
remained steady at 24% for the full year, with 
the strong second half performance (28%) 
compensating, as expected, for the lower 
margins achieved in the ﬁ rst half. Operating 
margins in the Energetics Division improved 
to 23%, due to the introduction of automated 
manufacturing and the operational gearing 
achieved from higher volumes of activity. 
However, margins in our Countermeasures 
division reduced slightly to 29%, as the material 
cost of magnesium and higher sales of naval 
countermeasures affected the businesses. 
Consequently, underlying operating proﬁ t* rose 
by 39% to £84.9 million. We remain conﬁ dent 
that this level of proﬁ tability is sustainable into 
the future. 
The operating cash inﬂ ow during the year 
was excellent at £83.7 million, equivalent to a 
cash conversion rate of 99%. Our operating 
cash inﬂ ow in the second half of the year was 
particularly strong, with an equivalent cash 
conversion of over 130%. Capital expenditure 
increased by 113% to £34 million as the Group 
continued to invest signiﬁ cantly in improved 
automation, additional manufacturing facilities 
and important improvements in manufacturing 
safety. Research and development (R&D) also 
increased by 39% to £9.3 million, driven by 
a signiﬁ cant increase in customer funding. 
Company funded R&D grew at a more modest 
7%. Our new ﬁ ve year research partnership 
with the Defence Academy at Shrivenham 
has started well with four doctoral research 
programmes and three major product studies. 
At the year end, the Group had a record order 
book of £409 million, some 38% higher than 
the previous year. This level of order cover 
continues to underpin the prospects for 2009. 
I am pleased to report that the order book for 
the Energetics division at the year end was 
£281 million, 58% higher than the previous 
year, continuing to provide a real foundation for 
further strong growth in the future. 
Since the year end, the order book has 
increased by a further 43% to a record current 
order book of £585 million.
 
Health and safety
Following the detailed investigation into the 
incident that occurred in October 2007 in a 
manufacturing building at the Simmel Difesa 
site in Colleferro, Italy, a detailed restart 
process was implemented to ensure that 
appropriate lessons were learned and that 
risks were reduced to as low as reasonably 
practicable, in line with the Group’s commitment 
to achieving the highest levels of safety in both 
its products and its manufacturing facilities. 
Review by the Chief Executive
Revenue 
increased 
by 39% to 
£354.2 million  CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 7
The restart process was reviewed by 
independent experts and then implemented 
prior to commencing any operation, including 
all buildings and operations not involved in the 
incident. It included the use of a forty seven 
point checklist which ensured that all risks were 
adequately considered, mitigated and managed. 
Simmel Difesa has now safely begun production 
in all areas, with the exception of the building 
in which the incident occurred, which was 
substantially damaged. Production was affected 
during the ﬁ rst four months of the year but 
the impact was minimised by ensuring that 
key production items were sub-contracted to 
alternative manufacturing facilities whilst the 
restart process was being implemented. These 
alternative manufacturing facilities were fully 
qualiﬁ ed by the customer and have performed 
well during the remainder of the year.
Energetics
• Orders: £249.2 million 
• Revenue: £196.7 million 
• Operating proﬁ t: £45.7 million 
• Operating margin: 23% 
Pyrotechnics and
explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
Our pyrotechnics and EOD business continues 
to grow strongly, with revenue up 45% 
year-on-year to £110.8 million. Our Italian 
subsidiary, Simmel Difesa, was a great success 
during its ﬁ rst full year of ownership, generating 
£25.8 million of pyrotechnic business. 
Demand for its pyrotechnic illumination mortar 
rounds continued to be strong, driven by 
continued high levels of operational use during 
peacekeeping operations by the UK Army. Over 
60,000 rounds were delivered this year and the 
award of a multi-year contract for the supply 
of another 140,000 white-light and 50,000 
black-light illumination rounds will maintain 
volume production throughout 2009 and 2010.
Chemring Defence also performed well, with 
encouraging growth in the sales of both 
pyrotechnic and demolition stores products. 
Production of smoke products, for signalling or 
screening, grew by 26% to record levels with 
over 800,000 units delivered to the
UK Ministry of Defence and other NATO 
countries. Qualiﬁ cation of the L96/L97 
vehicle discharge grenades for the US Army 
was completed to schedule and volume 
production continues in line with the 
multi-year requirements. Sales of demolition 
stores grew by 20% year-on-year, with a 
signiﬁ cant expansion of our customer base 
in Europe and the Middle East. In particular, 
our portable mine-breaching system, PEMBS, 
continued to be in demand, with new orders 
from Australia, Spain, Poland and Slovenia.
Revenue by destination (2008)
US £142m (40%)
UK £86m (24%)
Europe  £67m (19%)
Middle East  £30m (9%)
Far East  £23m (6%)
Rest of world  £7m (2%)
Revenue 
up 45% to 
£110.8 million for 
our pyrotechnics 
and EOD business 8 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
Battleﬁ eld training products have also 
continued to be in strong demand. The 
customer base for our MECS (multiple effects 
cartridge system) battleﬁ eld simulation 
ammunition continued to expand, with France 
and Saudi Arabia becoming important new 
customers. Record production levels were 
achieved for thunderﬂ ash products, with 
deliveries of in excess of 1 million units to 
European and Far Eastern customers. US 
Army usage continued to be strong and 
production reached 1.5 million units during 
the year. The US Army believes that realistic 
training conditions are a vital component of 
maintaining readiness, and plans to signiﬁ cantly 
expand the capabilities of its training ranges. 
Towards the end of the year, Chemring Defence 
received a $5 million contract from Unitech in 
the US for the delivery of the new Improvised 
Explosive Devices (IED) simulator launchers for 
installation at various US Army training ranges. 
Further opportunities for the system and the 
associated MECS ammunition are expected to 
emerge over the next twelve months as a large 
number of countries involved in peacekeeping 
activities evaluate what type of training is 
needed prior to the deployment of troops.
Chemring Marine also grew strongly in 2008, 
expanding sales of its maritime distress signals 
by 16%, with a signiﬁ cant increase in deliveries 
to the US market to satisfy cruise liner 
requirements. Worldwide qualiﬁ cation of both 
its new Mk8 parachute distress rocket and its 
new day and night distress ﬂ are were achieved 
in the year and these new products should 
maintain our competitive position for the future. 
Chemring Energetics saw lower production 
volumes of pyrotechnics during the year, 
principally due to a one-off change by 
Martin Baker in their manufacturing inventory 
policy that led to a short-term stop in demand for 
pyromechanisms and rocket motors used during 
their ejector seat production. A greater emphasis 
has been placed on growing the munitions 
component and sub-system opportunities.
Our US subsidiary, Technical Ordnance, had a 
disappointing year, with sales of pyrotechnics 
substantially lower than the previous year. 
Multi-year contracts for the delivery of BBU-35, 
BBU-36 and CCU-45 impulse cartridges for 
the US Air Force and US Navy were completed 
during the year but there has been a signiﬁ cant 
delay in the follow-on competitive process. The 
consequent gap in production reduced annual 
volumes by 30% to 4.2 million units, which 
had a substantial impact on revenue. The new 
multi-year contracts are now under negotiation. 
All of our new acquisitions performed strongly 
during 2008. Richmond Electronics was 
acquired at the start of the ﬁ nancial year and 
has made an encouraging start, with a record 
level of sales and the successful capture of 
major orders from the UK, Italy, Bangladesh 
and Kuwaiti governments. Titan Dynamics, in 
Texas, has also made great progress since its 
acquisition, with a further 400 BES (battleﬁ eld 
effects systems) launchers installed at US Army 
ranges to take the installed base to more than 
1,500. The production of BES cartridges has 
also been increased to 65,000 per month 
using the automated manufacturing expertise 
at Technical Ordnance. Further increases to 
100,000 per month are planned to occur in 2009.
Scot also performed well, delivering strong 
sales and operating margins during the latter 
part of 2008. It secured new contracts for the 
supply of BBU-63 impulse cartridges for use 
on the B-2 stealth bomber and a substantial 
contract from Lockheed Martin for the aft 
and forward thrusters used on the Atlas V 
heavy lift launch vehicle. The business also 
won some important contracts (canard 
actuator, separation nuts) on the Orion Crew 
Expeditionary Vehicle, which is the NASA 
successor to the Space Shuttle.
Review by the Chief Executive 
CONTINUED
The US Army 
believes that 
realistic training 
conditions are a 
vital component 
of maintaining 
readiness  CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 9
Munitions 
Our munitions business also grew strongly, with 
revenue up 66% year-on-year to £85.9 million. 
The full year of trading from Simmel Difesa was an 
important component of this growth, generating 
£26 million of revenue. Naval ammunition 
continued to be the most important aspect of the 
business, with deliveries of 40mm ammunition to 
a number of Italian and Middle Eastern customers. 
Production of 76mm naval ammunition remained 
steady during the year with deliveries to several 
Far Eastern and South American countries. 
Simmel was also awarded its ﬁ rst contract from 
the French Navy for the qualiﬁ cation of a range 
of 76mm ammunition for the French Horizon and 
FREMM frigates. 
Simmel had further success in its other niche 
markets. It delivered the ﬁ rst batch of 120mm 
tank ammunition to a NATO customer to 
schedule, and received a signiﬁ cant award 
for the supply of 125mm tank ammunition 
to a Middle East customer. A qualiﬁ cation 
programme for the dual-mode warhead of the 
ASTER air defence missile was also successfully 
completed during the year and volume 
production has now started. 
 
The munitions part of Chemring Energetics 
grew strongly in 2008, with good progress 
made on the development of our rocket motor 
business. The qualiﬁ cation of the NLAW 
rocket motors was completed in the early part 
of the year and production increased to its 
steady-state requirement. A new rocket motor 
for an 84mm anti-tank weapon was developed 
in the year and the ﬁ rst batch delivered to the 
European customer. In addition, good progress 
continues to be made to extend our partnership 
with BAE Systems for the supply of detonators, 
primers and energetic components for a wide 
range of their ammunition products. 
Chemring Energetics is also working with 
BAE Systems and other prime contractors on 
the development of new explosive materials, 
particularly those that are insensitive to ﬁ re 
or high velocity impacts. During the year, we 
received a substantial contract from Nexter for 
insensitive explosive material for use in the new 
French 155mm ammunition.
Technical Ordnance also expanded its 
component supply business with the principal 
US ammunition prime contractors, ATK and 
General Dynamics. Production of explosive 
detonators, pellets and tracers increased by 
24% year-on-year and we continue to explore 
the opportunity for more sub-system contracts, 
such as complete fuzes. 
The newly acquired Martin Electronics performed 
well during the last few months of the year, 
increasing production and capturing a number of 
important new orders. Production of the M228 
training grenade fuze continued strongly at 
300,000 units per month in its semi-automated 
facility. Full automation of the assembly, 
inspection and packaging was introduced 
during 2008 and has successfully completed all 
qualiﬁ cation testing. Contract options in excess of 
$22 million were also awarded.
Martin Electronics also successfully 
manufactured 40mm illumination rounds for 
the two US system prime contractors. Two 
further pyrotechnic rounds passed their factory 
acceptance testing and will begin production 
shortly. $17 million of new orders were also 
received, giving Martin a strong order book 
with which to start the new ﬁ nancial year.
Revenue 
up 66% to 
£85.9 million 
for our 
munitions 
business 10 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
Countermeasures
•  Orders: £155.2 million 
•  Revenue: £157.5 million 
•  Operating proﬁ t: £45.5 million
•  Operating margin: 29% 
Our Countermeasures division showed strong 
growth during the year, with revenue up 25% 
year-on-year to £157.5 million. However, some 
of this growth can be attributed to the strength 
of the dollar during the last quarter and the 
growth on a constant exchange rate is much 
closer to 20%, broadly in line with the growth in 
the global market.
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK business, 
had another excellent year, generating 
£42.4 million of revenue, which was 37% 
higher than the previous year. This growth 
was driven by a record production of 240,000 
spectral ﬂ ares for use by the UK and coalition 
partners in peacekeeping operations to protect 
helicopters, transport aircraft and combat 
aircraft. Production of conventional ﬂ are types 
also continued at record levels, with growing 
interest being shown for our range of 26mm 
and 50mm ﬂ ares for use on Russian made 
helicopters and aircraft. A substantial number 
of ﬂ ares for Typhoon were delivered to the 
participating nations and good progress was 
made on the development of some advanced 
ﬂ ares for future qualiﬁ cation on that platform. 
Revenue from 130mm naval countermeasures 
grew by over 170% year-on-year with major 
deliveries to Denmark, Norway, Spain and Chile. 
Interest in both IR and chaff rounds continues 
to grow, particularly for countries looking to 
operate in crowded littoral operational theatres. 
Historically, the operating margins from our 
naval countermeasures business have been 
considerably lower than that usually associated 
with our aircraft countermeasures. The strong 
growth in this area has, therefore, contributed 
to the small decrease in operating margins 
compared with 2007. However, company-funded 
programmes to develop alternative options to the 
existing bought-in rocket motors and electronics 
sub-systems are underway and should lead to 
higher margins over the next few years. 
Kilgore also delivered a strong performance, 
with sales up 48% year-on-year to a record 
level of $76.8 million. Production of the 
three high volume, conventional MTV ﬂ ares 
ran extremely well throughout, with total 
production exceeding 1.6 million ﬂ ares. This 
performance would have been even stronger 
but for the fact that production volumes had to 
be reduced during the latter part of the year, as 
a consequence of administrative delays in the 
award of follow-on options. 
Three new ﬂ ares were scheduled to enter 
production in 2008. A ﬂ are for C-17 transport 
aircraft successfully passed ﬂ ight qualiﬁ cation 
and factory acceptance testing (FAT) during the 
year; full production started at the end of the 
year and will continue throughout the current 
ﬁ nancial year. A set of advanced ﬂ ares for the 
B-52 also successfully passed its ﬂ ight test and 
factory acceptance testing but the US Air Force 
customer requested that a new high altitude 
test be completed before volume production 
commenced. Since this ﬂ ight test could only 
be scheduled at the very end of the ﬁ nancial 
year, the start of production was delayed into 
2009. Similarly, problems with the technical 
data package on the advanced ﬂ are for the 
F-18 aircraft have taken a considerable length 
of time to resolve and production has been 
delayed until 2009. 
Considerable progress has, however, been 
made on the advanced ﬂ ares for the F-22 and 
F-35 aircraft. Production of the ﬂ are set for 
F-22 increased steadily to 700 units per month, 
although a problem with the US Government 
test facility delayed delivery of several batches 
of ﬂ ares in the last six weeks of the year. The 
construction of the new advanced material 
facility at Kilgore, with its highly efﬁ cient fully 
automated production process, was completed 
and fully commissioned during the year. All 
F-22 production has now been transferred to 
this new facility. Successful validation testing 
of the ﬂ ares for the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) 
has been completed and the test results exceed 
expectations. The transition to low rate initial 
production is now expected to occur in 2009. 
The 
Countermeasures 
division showed 
strong growth 
during the year, 
with revenue 
up 25%
Review by the Chief Executive 
CONTINUED  CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 11
Another major success for Kilgore in 2008 was 
the capture of the multi-year award to supply 
the M212 ﬂ are, which is a component of the 
current ﬂ are suite used by the US Army and the 
US Air Force to protect helicopters from infra-red 
guided missiles. This contract, with a maximum 
value of $382.9 million, is the largest framework 
contract ever placed with the Group by the 
US Government. The ﬁ rst delivery order was for 
just over 200,000 ﬂ ares, production of which is 
expected to begin in the latter part of 2009. 
Finally, Alloy Surfaces had another satisfactory 
year, generating $128.5 million of revenue, 
which was similar to last year. Decoy production 
rose to a record level of over 1.7 million 
ﬂ ares but a change of product mix affected 
total revenue. The US Army awarded Alloy a 
multi-year contract to supply the M211 ﬂ are, 
which is another component of the current 
ﬂ are suite used by the US Army for the 
protection of helicopters. This contract, with 
a maximum value of $347.9 million, provides 
the framework for continued production of 
this product over the next ﬁ ve years. However, 
the US Air Force recently selected a modiﬁ ed 
design, called the MJU64, for its future airlift 
protection requirements and has placed an 
initial contract on Alloy for $22.9 million. This 
change in requirement and the reduced demand 
from operations in Iraq, following the apparent 
success of the US and Iraqi forces “surge” 
initiative, resulted in a gradual decrease in the 
monthly production rate throughout 2008. 
Production of the MJU64 is now 10,000 units 
per month and is likely to stay at this rate for 
the foreseeable future. 
In May 2008, the US Air Force awarded Alloy a 
$30 million contract for the continued supply of 
MJU-50 decoys for protection of its transport 
aircraft. Production has been ramped up to 
33,000 units per month and negotiations for 
a follow-on contract at higher rate production 
in 2009 have now started. The UK Ministry of 
Defence has placed additional contracts for the 
BOL/IR special material decoys and production 
has been increased to 40,000 units per month; 
this level of production should continue 
throughout 2009.
Future prospects
Energetics – Pyrotechnics
and explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
The global market for pyrotechnics and EOD 
is estimated to be in excess of £3 billion per 
annum and to be growing steadily at over 10% 
per annum. In 2008, the Group had sales of 
£110.8 million, which represents a 3.5% market 
share. The market remains fragmented with a 
large number of small players, many of whom 
are nationally focused and with limited product 
ranges. Our recent acquisitions of Richmond, 
Titan, Scot and NIITEK have considerably 
enhanced our capabilities and market 
presence particularly in the US. We continue 
to believe that the opportunities for further 
growth are excellent.
There is growing interest in the use of white-
light and black-light illumination payloads for 
use in peacekeeping operations and for training 
requirements. Demand for our 81mm mortar 
rounds remains high but many of our customers 
are looking for alternative delivery systems. We 
are adapting our payloads for 60mm and 120mm 
mortar rounds and expect demand for the 
product to grow strongly over the next few years. 
The Group 
received its 
largest ever 
framework 
contract 
from the 
US Government 12 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
Signalling and screening smokes are used 
regularly during operational duties and training 
exercises, and there is growing interest in 
lower toxicity and multi-spectral performance. 
Demand for our products continues to grow 
within UK and NATO customers but we are 
starting to see growing export interest, 
particularly from Middle East and Far East 
customers. There are a number of large 
multi-year contracts that will be placed in 
2009, which could signiﬁ cantly enhance our 
production volumes over the next few years. 
Realistic battleﬁ eld simulation is considered 
essential for the preparation of troops 
prior to tours of active duty. The number of 
sophisticated training ranges continues to 
grow, particularly in the US, with our MECS 
and BES launchers as standard installations. 
Over the next ﬁ ve years, the installed launcher 
base will triple in number and this will lead to a 
substantial increase in the consumption of both 
MECS and BES pyrotechnic cartridges. 
In October, we announced the acquisition 
of NIITEK, a leading developer of robot and 
vehicle-mounted mine and Improvised Explosive 
Device (IED) detection systems, incorporating its 
advanced Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) and 
metal detection technologies. This acquisition, 
completed in December, is a critical step in the 
development of our EOD business and provides 
a platform to access the £500 million mine 
detection market. NIITEK has developed its 
sensor technology into an operationally proven, 
vehicle-mounted system and is in the process 
of delivering $33.8 million worth of orders for 
thirty systems to the US Army in support of its 
counter-IED operations. Future developments 
of the technology include a robot-mounted 
sensor which will remove the human operator 
from hazardous mine detection activities in 
both peacekeeping operations and post-conﬂ ict 
reconstruction.
Energetics – Munitions
The global market for munitions remains 
comparatively stable at about £10 billion 
per annum and is not expected to change 
signiﬁ cantly over the next three years. 
Simmel continues to maintain its position 
as world leader in naval ammunition and is 
looking to substantially expand its order book in 
South America and the Far East. 
A major contract from the Italian MOD for 
medium calibre ammunition should be awarded 
shortly and there are a number of attractive 
export opportunities over the next eighteen 
months. Of particular note is the US 40mm 
ammunition programme for the C130 gunships, 
where Simmel is working in collaboration with 
General Dynamics. 
Our opportunities within the US have been 
signiﬁ cantly enhanced by the acquisition of 
Martin Electronics. Full year trading from the 
automated production of the M228 training 
grenade fuze will give immediate growth and 
the competition for the next multi-year contract 
has now started. Full production of the three 
pyrotechnic 40mm variants will also take place 
in 2009, and there is growing interest in our 
medium velocity family for longer range, high 
accuracy engagements. 
Collaboration between Martin Electronics and 
Simmel will also ensure that any technology 
transfer into US will be done as efﬁ ciently 
as possible.
Our 
opportunities 
within the US 
have been 
signiﬁ cantly 
enhanced by 
the acquisition 
of Martin 
Electronics
Review by the Chief Executive 
CONTINUED  CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 13
Countermeasures
The market outlook for our expandable 
countermeasures business continues to be 
positive, although there are signs that the rate 
of market growth is starting to subside. Over 
the next three years, we believe that the global 
market will continue to expand at between 15% 
and 20% per annum, driven by strong demand 
from the US Air Force for advanced decoys 
to combat the latest air-to-air missile threats 
and the continued demand from NATO forces 
for the protection helicopters and transport 
aircraft during peacekeeping missions. Our 
successful track record in recent competitive 
procurements, such as the M212 contract, 
continues to give conﬁ dence that we can 
maintain our 50%+ market share position.
In Iraq, the enhanced security position has 
seen a gradual reduction in the operational 
consumption of decoys, particularly by the 
US Army. Moreover, the Iraqi government has 
now reached agreement with the US that all 
combat troops will be withdrawn by the end of 
2011. However, the Iraqi government is starting to 
procure signiﬁ cant improvements in its military 
equipment, and has recently submitted requests 
to the US Government to acquire quite sizeable 
numbers of helicopters and combat aircraft. 
In Afghanistan, the total number of US and 
NATO troops assigned to ISAF and Operation 
Enduring Freedom has increased to 79,000, 
and they continue to conduct extensive 
operations against the insurgents across the 
south of the country and on the border with 
Pakistan. The new US administration has 
indicated its intention to bolster the force with 
additional troops currently allocated to Iraq. 
The UK Ministry of Defence and other NATO 
nations also appear to be committing higher 
numbers of helicopters and aircraft to the 
mission, which will further increase demand for 
our products. 
A number of important new aircraft will enter 
service over the next ten years. In Europe, 
the introduction of Typhoon will have a major 
impact on demand for decoys, particularly for 
our BOL/IR special material decoys and other 
advanced technologies to combat sophisticated 
surface-to-air or air-to-air threats. However, 
the biggest growth is expected to be in the 
US market, where procurement of advanced 
ﬂ ares for new combat aircraft, namely the F-22 
and the F-35, is planned. 
F-22 decoy production will start full sustainment 
funding in 2010, when the full complement of 
aircraft and the need to establish a war reserve 
will signiﬁ cantly increase annual procurement 
quantities. Decoys for the F-35 start low rate 
production in 2009 and production volumes 
are expected to grow steadily over the next ten 
years as substantial numbers of aircraft enter 
service with the US, UK, Australia and other JSF 
partner nations.
The Australian Government has just awarded 
Chemring Australia a ten year contract, 
worth A$160 million, for the supply of 
countermeasures and pyrotechnics. As part of 
the arrangement, we will invest A$18 million 
in the build of a new state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facility near Melbourne and 
create a research and development centre 
for the design of future products. This new 
capability will allow Chemring Australia to bid for 
the second source supply for the F-35 decoys, 
and the additional production capacity will be 
used as part of the Group operations network to 
satisfy our global export ﬂ are requirements. 
Overall, the future outlook remains encouraging 
and many opportunities exist for growth. The 
Group has a strong order book, which now 
stands at a record level of £585 million, up 46% 
since January 2008. This large order book, 
our healthy cash ﬂ ow and strong balance sheet 
make the Board conﬁ dent that the prospects for 
the Group in 2009 continue to be excellent.
Dr D J Price
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
20 January 2009
* Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations
and loss on fair value movements on derivatives of £16.5 million (2007: £3.4 million)
Record order book 
of £585 million 
and prospects for 
2009 continue to 
be excellent
