 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
6
Review by the Chief Executive
The Group continued to perform strongly throughout the 
year with revenue from continued operations increasing 
substantially by 42% to a record £503.9 million.
Group results
The Group continued to perform 
strongly throughout the year, in spite 
of concerns about reduced spending on 
defence following the global credit crisis. 
Revenue from continuing operations 
increased substantially by 42% to a record 
£503.9 million. Almost half of this growth 
was achieved by our existing businesses, just 
under a quarter from the full year trading of 
acquisitions made in 2008, and the balance 
from the NIITEK acquisition, which was 
completed in 2009. The Group’s business 
continues to be second half weighted, with 
£270.4 million of revenue (54%) generated 
in the second six months of the year.
The Group’s order intake during the year 
increased by 55% to a new record of 
£627.6 million. Our Energetics division 
received orders valued at £345.9 million, 
39% higher than last year. This reflects 
the strong growth in orders in our 
explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) and 
munitions business segments, as a result 
of the growing success of our NIITEK and 
Simmel Difesa businesses respectively. 
Our Countermeasures division achieved an 
order intake of £281.7 million, 81% higher 
than last year, reflecting strong order capture 
performances from both Alloy Surfaces 
and Kilgore in the USA. At the year end, 
the order book for the Group had reached 
£559.0 million, an increase of 37% on the 
previous year end, and this provides a solid 
foundation for further growth in the future.
Our Energetics division had another 
excellent year, achieving a 63% increase in 
revenue to a record level of £320.4 million, 
in spite of numerous delays in the receipt of 
orders caused by the budgetary constraints 
of some of our customers. Simmel Difesa, 
our Italian subsidiary, had an outstanding 
year, increasing its revenue by 54%, driven 
by demand from NATO forces for 81mm 
illumination mortar rounds to support 
peacekeeping operations. Our most recent 
US acquisition, NIITEK, also had an excellent 
year, successfully delivering its first contract 
for thirty Husky Mounted Detection Systems 
(HMDS) in September 2009 to the US Army 
and subsequently receiving a follow-on 
contract for a further fifty systems. 
With over thirty HMDS units now deployed 
on counter-IED operations, NIITEK has made 
an impressive contribution to the Group.
Our Countermeasures division also 
performed well, achieving a 17% increase 
in revenue to £183.5 million, in spite of the 
substantial delays in placement of contracts 
by the US Department of Defense that has 
particularly affected Kilgore. Strong growth 
was, however, achieved at our UK subsidiary, 
Chemring Countermeasures, driven by 
demand from NATO forces operating in 
Afghanistan and the growing requirement 
for flares for the Typhoon, in line with the 
continued build-up of aircraft deliveries to 
European and Middle Eastern nations.
Underlying operating margins* for the 
Group were 23%. This was slightly lower 
than last year’s 24% but this variation 
really only reflects the increased proportion 
(63%) of revenue contributed by the 
Energetics division, which generally has 
lower levels of margins. Operating margins 
in the Energetics division remained 
steady at 23%, whilst those in the 
Countermeasures division remained at 
29%. Overall underlying operating profit* 
rose by 35% to £114.7 million. We remain 
confident that this performance should be 
sustainable into the future.
The operating cash inflow during the year 
was very good at £106.7 million, equivalent 
to a cash conversion rate of 93% from 
underlying operating profit*. Our operating 
cash inflow in the second half was 
particularly strong, with an equivalent cash 
conversion of 110%.
Health and safety
The Board recognises that the health 
and safety of the Group’s employees is 
an important priority. We believe that 
all injuries are preventable, and we have 
adopted a long term strategy to ensure 
that the Group continually improves its 
performance and reduces risk.
During the year, we continued with our 
implementation of formal management 
systems across the Group, and fourteen out 
of seventeen of our sites have now been 
validated as compliant with the health and 
safety management system OHSAS18001. 
Operational highlights
•  Excellent contribution from 
NIITEK following its acquisition in 
December 2008
• Continued strong growth at Simmel
•  Record production at Chemring 
Countermeasures and Alloy Surfaces
•  Commencement of building of 
new production facilities in the UK 
and Australia
•  Acquisition of Hi-Shear completed in 
November 2009
Key information
Year end order book
£559.0m
+37%
Revenue
£503.9m
+42%
Number of employees
3,349
+1%
*  Before goodwill adjustment arising from 
recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation 
arising from business combinations and  
gain/(loss) on fair value movements on 
derivatives of £6.8 million (2008: £16.5 million). Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
7
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our lost time incident rate (calculated 
using the US OSHA rules) showed a modest 
improvement from 1.20 to 1.13 incidents per 
100 employees. Six of our sites reported 
no lost work days in the year, which is an 
excellent achievement. Whilst we take 
all incidents seriously, we pay particular 
attention to those where employees are 
hurt due to an energetic event. We did 
have, unfortunately, four lost time events 
following unexpected initiations during the 
year; two at Chemring Energetic Devices in 
the USA, and one each at Chemring Defence 
in Germany and Chemring Australia. 
These events were fully investigated and 
engineering controls implemented to 
prevent re-occurrence.
Revenue analysis
Our Countermeasures division grew its 
revenue by 17% to £183.5 million, and 
represents the largest business segment 
at 37% of the total Group revenue. 
Revenue from the pyrotechnics businesses 
increased by 81% to £173.2 million, and 
this now represents our second largest 
business segment at 34% of the total Group 
revenue. The high growth in this business 
was generated by sales of illumination 
mortar rounds and 40mm pyrotechnic 
rounds, as well as signal and screening 
grenades used by infantry. The second area 
of high growth was in our EOD business 
segment, which increased its revenue by 
304% to £61.2 million, principally due to 
the rapid expansion of NIITEK as its HMDS 
counter-IED product entered production. 
Revenue in the munitions segment, 
on the other hand, remained constant 
at £86.0 million, with a number of US 
programmes suffering from delayed order 
intake and extended entry into production.
Revenue from sales to US customers 
increased by 66% during the year to 
£235.4 million, which represents 47% of 
the total Group revenue. This aligns closely 
with one of our core strategies to maintain 
about half of our business focused on the 
world’s largest defence market. Revenue 
from UK customers also increased by 45% 
to £125.2 million, and now contributes 25% 
of the total Group revenue. 
Revenue from sales to other European 
countries also increased to £75.0 million 
during the year, bringing the total 
proportion of revenue from sales to NATO 
countries to 87%, a slight increase on 
last year. Sales to Middle East countries 
did, however, decline to £20.4 million, as 
several multi-year supply contracts came 
to an end early in the year and follow-on 
contracts were delayed due to extended 
national budget timetables. Finally, sales 
to Australia and the Far East increased 
substantially (72%) to £39.1 million, 
reflecting the first year of deliveries under 
the new long term framework agreement 
with the Australian Government.
Research and development
Our strategy for future growth is 
dependent on maintaining technology 
leadership and rapidly developing key 
products to displace our competitors. 
Technology research, product development 
and the capability of our engineering teams 
are all vital components in achieving this 
goal. Our total expenditure more than 
doubled to £18.9 million during the year, 
although this still only represents 3.8% of 
the total Group revenue. Internally-funded 
research and development increased by 
56% to £9.2 million, more accurately 
reflecting the strategic emphasis we place 
on product innovation.
The largest proportion of our 
internal funding remains targeted on 
maintaining technology leadership in the 
countermeasures market, with development 
programmes for new covert decoys, 
improved spectral and kinematic flare 
types, and a number of 130mm naval decoy 
rounds. The largest proportion of customer 
funded investment is at NIITEK, which 
continues to receive substantial research 
funding from the US Department of Defense 
for a wide range of technologies associated 
with their vehicle-mounted HMDS products 
and their robot-mounted equivalents. 
We continue to place considerable emphasis 
on our partnerships with academic 
institutions. Our long term partnership with 
Cranfield University is making good progress 
with seventeen targeted programmes, and 
has achieved early success in a number of 
promising areas. We have also established 
several collaborative programmes in the 
USA, although we have been unable to find 
a single academic establishment to cover 
the full range of our technical interests.
Capital investment
Capital investment during the year grew 
12% to £38.2 million, with substantial 
investment in new production facilities to 
support both our Countermeasures and 
Energetics businesses. The two largest 
investments are in new countermeasures 
facilities at Salisbury, UK and at Lara, 
Australia, which will provide fully automated 
flow line manufacture of the full range of 
magnesium and spectral flares. Progress, to 
date, has been good, with the two main UK 
facility buildings nearing completion. The 
design of the automation has taken longer 
than originally envisaged but both facilities 
should be completed before the end of 
2010. The total cost of the facilities will be 
around £24 million, of which £11 million has 
been incurred to date.
Expenditure on production facilities for our 
Energetics businesses has also increased, 
with significant investment in automated, 
safer facilities for the manufacture of 
primary explosives, such as lead azide, 
in both the UK and the USA. Both facilities 
will be in operation during 2010, and 
represent important strategic assets as 
they will become a vital source of supply 
for our two largest customer communities. 
We have also started construction of a new 
high explosives pressing and assembly 
plant at Ardeer in Scotland. This will provide 
the UK with an important facility for the 
manufacture of demolition stores and 
munitions with insensitive characteristics.
We are also nearing completion of the 
construction of our first demilitarisation 
plant at Anagni in Italy. This facility is 
expected to become operational in 2010, and 
will be used for the destruction and recycling 
of a wide range of munitions, including 
grenades, ammunition and missiles. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
8
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all 
members of staff for their dedication and hard work 
in delivering the 2009 results. 
Staff and employees
At the end of 2009, the Group employed a 
total of 3,349 people, just 1% higher than 
the previous year end in spite of the 42% 
growth in revenue. Revenue per employee 
increased, therefore, to £150,000, 
compared to £107,000 in 2008. 54% of 
the staff are US-based and 34% are based 
in the UK, which is a higher percentage 
than the national breakdown suggested by 
our geographic revenue profile. The vast 
majority (75%) of our staff are involved in 
our manufacturing operations.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to 
all members of staff for their dedication and 
hard work in delivering the 2009 results.
Future prospects
Countermeasures
The market outlook for our expendable 
countermeasures business continues to 
be positive, although there are now clear 
indications that the rate of market growth 
is slowing. Although the US defence 
budget appears to be robust, there is 
growing evidence from the UK and other 
NATO countries that defence spending 
will be reduced over the next five years. 
This will have an impact on the timing of 
countermeasures orders, with a consequent 
reduction in the growth rate of that market. 
In Afghanistan, the US Government has 
committed to increasing the number of 
troops deployed by 30,000, which will 
take the NATO deployment above 110,000. 
The US also intends to double its troop 
transportation capability by adding a further 
two hundred and fifty helicopters. The UK 
has also announced a £900 million package 
to support operations in Afghanistan, 
including twenty two new Chinook 
helicopters, although these will only be 
delivered in 2012 at the earliest. The higher 
numbers of helicopters and aircraft 
committed to the mission will inevitably 
lead to greater demand for our products.
Over the next five years, the 
entry-into-service of the Typhoon aircraft 
will have a significant impact on the 
market. Large numbers of aircraft will start 
operations within Europe and the 
Demand for our 81mm mortar variants has 
continued to grow and we have adapted the 
payload for 60mm and 120mm mortars. 
We have received the first orders for 60mm 
variants and we expect demand for these 
products to increase.
Signalling and screening smokes are used 
regularly during operational duties and 
training exercises. There is growing interest 
in multi-spectral screen payloads, especially 
for the replacement of white phosphorous 
technology, which has a significant incendiary 
problem. Many of our customers are also 
interested in lighter smoke grenades to 
minimise the weight problem for the soldier. 
A number of important US and European 
contracts will be placed in 2010, which will 
increase production volumes in the future.
Production of 40mm pyrotechnic grenades 
for the US Army has grown significantly 
over the last few years. Chemring Ordnance 
is currently bidding for the next five years 
production. However, there is growing 
concern about the use of a pyrotechnic 
payload in 40mm training grenades 
because of the risk of creating a bush fire 
in the dry environment of many training 
grounds. Alloy Surfaces has therefore 
developed a special material product that 
matches the signature requirements and 
qualification should start in 2010.
In November 2009, the Group completed 
the acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology 
Corporation, a leading manufacturer 
of high reliability energetic devices and 
sub-systems that perform critical functions 
in key US space and defence programmes, 
including satellites, space launch vehicles, 
missile defence and aircrew egress. 
Its products include low shock pyrotechnic 
satellite separation systems, space-qualified 
initiators, electronic missile safe/arm devices 
and acoustic initiators for underwater 
explosive ordnance disposal applications. 
The acquisition of Hi-Shear significantly 
enhances our market position in the space 
sector, giving us the lead US position in 
space and satellite separation, which we 
can use to access the European satellite 
market and provide a route-to-market for our 
other energetic technologies, such as linear 
explosives for cutting and stage separation.
Middle East. Demand for our standard 
Typhoon flares is growing rapidly, and we 
have started development of spectral and 
kinematic variants to maintain our market 
leading position. During 2009, the BOL/IR 
special material decoy system was qualified 
on the Typhoon and we expect growing 
interest from other nations looking to 
use its pre-emptive capabilities.
In the USA, the introduction of the F-35 
joint strike fighter will also have a major 
impact on the countermeasures market. 
Although low rate initial production has 
been delayed until 2011, the US Government 
has committed to building five hundred and 
twelve F-35s over the next five years and will 
need to rapidly build-up a stock of decoys 
if they are to become operational. There is 
also growing interest in fitting the BOL/IR 
system to the F-18, F-15 and CV-22 aircraft, 
in order to provide pre-emptive capabilities 
and to increase mission endurance. It is 
likely that the BOL product will become our 
highest volume decoy in the future.
The order book for the Countermeasures 
division is 81% higher than last year, 
with Alloy Surfaces up 32% and Kilgore 
up 95%. Our US subsidiaries now have 
multi-year contracts for M206, M211 and 
M212 helicopter flares, MJU-50, MJU-51 and 
MJU-53 transport flares, MJU-7 and MJU-10 
combat aircraft flares, and most recently, 
for F-22 aircraft flares. Our recent delivery 
performance, our continued investment in 
leading-edge technology, and the visibility 
of our order book gives us confidence that 
the future outlook remains positive.
Energetics
Pyrotechnics
The global market for pyrotechnics is 
estimated at £1.2 billion, with growth 
remaining steady at below 10% per annum. 
The market remains fragmented with a 
large number of small players, many of 
whom are nationally focused and with 
limited product ranges. With the acquisition 
of Hi-Shear, our current market share is 
about 14%, a significant increase on last year.
There is strong interest in illuminating 
payloads for use in peacekeeping operations 
and to satisfy training requirements. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
9
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Group has a strong order book, which at the end of the year 
stood at £559.0 million. This, combined with a healthy cash flow 
and a strong balance sheet gives the Board confidence that the 
prospects for the Group in 2010 continue to be excellent.
Explosive ordnance disposal
Our addressable global EOD market is 
estimated to be £800 million and is currently 
growing rapidly at about 20% per annum. 
The market is fragmented with most 
customers looking for tailor made solutions 
and world class technology. The constant 
evolution of the threat demands that rapid 
upgrades of our products are required, in 
order to deliver best-of-class technology and 
maintenance of a strong market position.
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar 
has been a great success in counter-IED 
operations in Afghanistan. The US Army 
is looking to place a contract in the next 
few months for another fifty plus systems 
under an urgent operational requirement. 
It would also like to fit the HMDS radar to all 
of its planned fleet of Husky mine protected 
vehicles, and is considering placing a 
competitive five year contract that will have 
a substantial value. A second new production 
facility will have to be commissioned by 
NIITEK in order to meet the production 
volumes that are likely to be required.
Many of our EOD customers are expressing 
growing interest in demolition products 
with insensitive characteristics that will 
not explode on impact from a bullet or 
in the presence of a fire. The Group is 
currently qualifying a number of such 
products for the UK Government, and 
expects orders from several of its other 
customers, when qualification has been 
successfully completed.
Munitions
The global market for munitions remains 
relatively stable at about £10 billion per 
annum and is not expected to change 
significantly over the next three years. 
The Group operates as a niche prime 
contractor, with strong market positions in 
naval ammunition and 40mm grenades.
Simmel continues to maintain its position as 
a global leader in naval ammunition, and has 
won a number of significant orders from 
Europe, South America and the Far East. 
Simmel has developed a new 76mm round 
with a multi-function microwave proximity 
fuze and an insensitive munition (IM) 
warhead. There is considerable interest in 
this round and a number of contracts are 
likely once qualification is completed in 2010.
The development of fuzing technology 
continues to be a significant priority for the 
Group. In addition to the products under 
development for our naval ammunition, 
the Group has just completed development 
of a simple mechanical fuze for US 20mm 
ammunition and a time fuze for mortar 
applications. Considerable interest has 
been shown in both these products and 
substantial contracts are expected once 
qualification has been completed.
The acquisition of Hi-Shear also provides 
us with Electronic Safe/Arm Fuze (ESAF) 
technology for ballistic missile defence 
applications. Hi-Shear manufactures the 
ESAF for the Patriot PAC-3 missile, which 
provides the short-range ballistic missile 
defence for the US and its allies. There is 
growing interest in the deployment of 
Patriot missiles by Japan, South Korea, 
Taiwan, India, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, 
Germany, Italy and Turkey. This is expected 
to provide substantial growth in the 
Hi-Shear business in the future.
Outlook
Overall, the future outlook remains 
encouraging with many excellent 
opportunities for growth. The Group has a 
strong order book, which at the end of the 
year stood at £559.0 million, up 37% on the 
previous year. This large order book, healthy 
cash flow and a strong balance sheet gives 
the Board confidence that the prospects for 
the Group in 2010 continue to be excellent.
D J Price
Chief Executive
19 January 2010
