 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
4
• Roke – a leading UK developer of 
advanced sensors, signal processing, 
communications and network 
solutions for the countermeasures, 
counter-improvised explosive device 
(counter-IED), counter-terrorism and 
industrial markets.
These acquisitions greatly enhance the 
Group’s capabilities and market access 
across our chosen business segments, 
and are expected to make a significant 
contribution to our future growth strategy. 
Balance sheet, cash flow and debt
The Board is committed to maintaining 
a solid balance sheet, and the Group has 
once again produced a healthy underlying 
operating cashflow of £126.1 million, 
demonstrating the reliable strong cash 
generation of the businesses.
We chose to debt-fund our acquisitions during 
the year, principally utilising our $280 million 
of private placement loan notes which have 
a maturity date of 2016 and 2019. Whilst the 
cost of acquisitions has increased our gearing 
level to 95%, I am confident that, with our 
continued strong cash generation, this high 
level of gearing will reduce in 2011.
Our working capital facilities were due for 
renewal in March 2012 but recognising the 
significant corporate refinancing that is due 
to occur in the UK in the latter part of 2011 
and early 2012, we took the opportunity to 
refinance the Group’s facilities early and 
completed this on 14 January 2011. Our new 
facilities, which are unsecured, now have 
an extended maturity to April 2015 and are 
£55 million higher than before.
Group strategy
Over the last five years, the Group has 
achieved substantial growth through 
a well-defined strategy of double digit 
organic growth together with a focused and 
well-executed programme of acquisitions. 
The development of new products is an 
essential component of this organic growth 
and the 81% increase in our investment in 
research and development during the year 
should provide an exciting foundation for 
the future. We also intend to pursue further 
Statement by the Chairman
Over the last five years, the Group has achieved 
substantial growth through a well-defined strategy of 
double digit organic growth together with a focused 
and well-executed programme of acquisitions.
Highlights
• Revenue up 18% to £597.1 million
• Underlying operating profit* 
up 18% to £135.6 million
• Underlying profit before tax* 
up 14% to £116.8 million
• Underlying earnings per share* 
up 15% at 246p
• Profit before tax £89.1 million
• Basic earnings per share 189p
• Total dividend per share for the year 
up 18% at 59p 
Key information
Underlying profit before tax*
£116.8m
+14%
Underlying earnings per share*
246p
+15%
Dividend per ordinary share
59p
+18%
*  Before acquisition related costs, intangible 
amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair 
value movements on derivatives totalling 
£27.7 million (2009: £6.8 million)
In my first Statement as Chairman, 
I am delighted to report that the Group 
increased its revenue by 18% to £597.1 million 
and generated an underlying operating 
profit* of £135.6 million, an increase of 18% 
on last year. Two thirds of the growth was 
organic. The Group’s underlying profit before 
tax* increased 14% to £116.8 million and its 
underlying earnings per share* rose 15% to 
246p. With the continuing strong growth in 
earnings, the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 42p, which gives a total dividend 
for the year of 59p, an increase of 18% 
over last year.
The order intake for the Group increased by 
31% to a new annual record of £824.3 million, 
and we entered the 2011 financial year with 
an order book of £803.3 million, 44% higher 
than last year. The order book today has 
reached a new record high of £902 million 
12% higher than at the year end, and this 
underpins our confidence in the prospects 
for further growth in 2011.
Since my appointment as Chairman 
on 1 October 2010, I have taken the 
opportunity to visit many of our 
manufacturing operations around the 
world. I have been most impressed with 
what I have seen of the Group’s technical 
and manufacturing skills, and it has enabled 
me to observe the strong profit and growth 
culture which is at the heart of the Group’s 
excellent performance over many years. 
I feel confident that this characteristic will 
enable growth to continue in the future. 
The Group invested £177 million in the 
acquisition of five new businesses during 
the year; the three most significant were: 
• Hi-Shear Technology Corporation – a 
US-based, leading manufacturer of high 
reliability energetic products for use in 
key US space and defence programmes, 
including satellites, missile defence and 
aircrew egress; 
• Mecar – a manufacturer of medium and 
large calibre ammunition, particularly for 
modern, light armoured vehicles, based 
in Belgium; Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
5
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Prospects
Over the last twelve months, the 
European defence market has weakened 
considerably with many nations reducing 
or deferring defence expenditure as 
they struggle to cope with rising deficit 
problems. Recent announcements 
from the US Government on their 2012 
budget intentions have provided greater 
assurance in the future prospects for that 
market. We remain confident that the USA 
represents an area of future growth in all 
of our market segments. However, it is our 
non-NATO customers that represent the 
largest opportunity for growth over the 
next five years. In 2010, our revenues from 
Middle East and Far East customers grew by 
over 60% and we believe that future growth 
in these regions should be substantial.
Our closing order book increased 
substantially to £803 million and, since 
the year end, it has increased further to 
£902 million. This strong order book, our 
solid balance sheet and our proven strategy 
provide clear visibility of the prospects for 
2011 and should provide the foundation for 
further growth in the future.
P C F Hickson
Chairman
18 January 2011
acquisitions of selected companies that 
expand our high technology capabilities and 
market position, including the consolidation 
of fragmented markets. 
Board of directors
Ken Scobie retired as a director at the 
end of September, after thirteen years as 
Chairman. During that period, the Group 
has been transformed as a business and is 
now a significant worldwide manufacturing 
organisation, which has delivered 
substantial shareholder value consistently 
over a number of years. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to pay tribute to Ken’s 
contribution to the Group’s development 
and to thank him for the leadership he has 
provided to the Board. We shall miss his 
wisdom and guidance, and wish him well in 
his retirement.
During the year, Air Marshal Sir Peter 
Norriss and Mr Much completed their 
second three year terms as non-executive 
directors. Their appointments were 
extended on a rolling basis, pending my 
appointment, to assist with a smooth 
transition. I will be considering succession 
plans for the non-executive directors over 
the forthcoming year but in the meantime, 
the knowledge and experience of all my 
fellow Board members is of considerable 
benefit as I continue to become more 
familiar with the Group. 
Dividends
In accordance with the Group’s established 
policy of increasing dividends commensurate 
with the growth in the Group’s profitability, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend 
for the year of 42p (2009: 36p). With the 
interim dividend paid of 17p (2009: 14p), 
this gives a total dividend for 2010 of 59p 
(2009: 50p), an increase of 18%, in line with 
the revenue and underlying operating profit* 
growth of 18% for the full year. The dividend 
is covered 4.2 times by underlying after tax 
earnings* and with a solid balance sheet and 
cash flow, the Group remains well positioned 
to increase its return to shareholders. 
