 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
6
Review by the Chief Executive
The Group performed well throughout the year – revenue from 
continuing operations grew by 18% to a record £597.1 million.
Group results
The Group performed well throughout the 
year, in spite of the downturn in European 
defence spending as the majority of 
governments looked to reduce their fiscal 
deficits. Revenue from continuing operations 
grew by 18% to a record £597.1 million. 
Over two thirds of this growth was organic, 
with strong contributions from both our 
Counter-Improvised Explosive Device (IED) 
and Munitions operations. There was a 
tremendous performance from our US 
subsidiary, NIITEK, which delivered over 
one hundred Husky Mounted Detection 
System (HMDS) ground penetrating radars 
to the US Army for counter-IED operations. 
The Group revenue continued to be second 
half weighted, with £341.2 million of revenue 
(57%) generated in the second six months 
of the year, similar to the average phasing 
achieved over the last five years.
The order intake for the Group during the 
year reached a new record of £824.3 million, 
up 31% on the previous year. Our Counter-IED 
division generated £178.5 million of order 
intake, of which £151.5 million related to 
the provision of ground penetrating radar 
for the US Army. Our Munitions division 
also had an excellent year with over 100% 
growth in order intake to £245.2 million, 
£145.1 million of which was awarded by 
Middle Eastern customers. Order intake in 
our Pyrotechnics division also reached a 
new record of £181.4 million, up 25% on last 
year and providing the highest level of order 
cover we have ever had going into a new 
financial year. Our Countermeasures division 
achieved an order intake of £219.2 million, 
which although lower than last year, did not 
include any of the large multi-year contracts 
that were awarded by the US and Australian 
governments in 2009.
The closing order book for the Group, 
therefore, reached £803.3 million, an 
increase of 44% on the previous year end, 
and this provides a solid foundation for the 
expected growth in 2011. 
Our Counter-IED division had an excellent 
year, achieving an 88% increase in revenue 
to a record level of £114.9 million, in spite of 
delays in the placement of orders. NIITEK had 
an outstanding year, increasing its revenue 
by 124% to £102 million, driven by urgent 
demand from the US and Canadian Armies 
for the HMDS ground penetrating radar to 
support peacekeeping operations. A new 
production facility was opened in July 2010 
and production has now increased to twenty 
HMDS units per month.
Our Munitions division also had a 
commendable year, with revenue up 35% to 
a new record of £115.9 million and growing 
demand for our products in most geographic 
areas. Deliveries of 40mm grenades and 
medium and large calibre ammunition to 
Middle East customers under new multi-year 
contracts were the main contributor. Sales of 
sub-systems contributed just over 47% of the 
revenue, with full round ammunition making 
up the remainder.
Our Pyrotechnics division generated 
revenue of £170 million, slightly below last 
year but still 77% higher than that achieved 
in 2008. Growth was achieved in aircraft 
safety systems and space pyrotechnics, 
which was offset by reduced deliveries of 
training products because of customer-
funded product upgrades and the relocation 
of some US production.
Our Countermeasures division delivered a 
steady performance, achieving a 7% increase 
in revenue to £196.3 million, in spite of 
the incidents that disrupted production at 
Kilgore and, earlier in the year, at Chemring 
Countermeasures in the UK. 
The underlying operating margin* achieved 
for the Group was 23%, similar to that 
achieved last year, and an underlying 
operating profit* of £135.6 million was 
generated, which was 18% higher than 
last year. Operating margins in the 
Countermeasures division rose slightly to 
30% and those in the Munitions division 
rose to 18%, reflecting the higher relative 
proportion of prime contracting (lower 
margin) business to that of component 
and sub-system business (higher margin). 
Pyrotechnics margins reduced slightly 
compared with the previous year to 24%, 
reflecting the timing of product improvement 
in key training products for the US Army. 
Margins in the Counter-IED division remained 
constant at 25%. We remain confident that 
the current level of profitability should be 
sustainable into the future.
Operational highlights
• Tremendous performance from our 
US subsidiary, NIITEK, which delivered 
over one hundred Husky Mounted 
Detection System (HMDS) ground 
penetrating radars.
• Our Munitions division also had an 
excellent year with over 100% growth 
in order intake to £245.2 million.
• With the acquisition of Roke, the 
number of qualified engineers and 
scientists employed by the Group 
increased to over 600.
• Capital investment in the year grew by 
22% to £40.9 million, which represents 
nearly 7% of Group revenue.
Key information
Year end order book
£803.3m
+44%
Revenue
£597.1m
+18%
Number of employees
4,283
+28%
*  Before acquisition related costs, intangible 
amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair 
value movements on derivatives totalling 
£27.7 million (2009: £6.8 million) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
7
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The underlying operating cash inflow during 
the year was excellent at £126.1 million, 
equivalent to a cash conversion rate of 
93% from underlying operating profit*. 
Our operating cash inflow in the second half 
was particularly strong, with an equivalent 
cash conversion of 117%.
Health and safety
The Board recognises that the highest 
levels of safety are required to protect 
our employees, our customers and the 
general public. We believe that all injuries 
and incidents are preventable, and we are 
strengthening our long term strategies to 
ensure that the Group continually improves 
its performance and reduces risk.
During the year, we continued with our 
implementation of formal management 
systems across the Group. With the exception 
of our newest acquisitions, all sites are 
certified to the environment management 
system ISO14001 and all but one have now 
been validated as compliant with the health 
and safety management system OHSAS18001 
The remaining site will achieve certification 
by the end of the first quarter of 2011. 
Our lost time incident rate (calculated 
using the US OSHA rules) continues 
to improve slowly from 1.13 to 1.06 
incidents per 100 employees. Six of our 
sites reported no lost days in the year, 
which is an excellent achievement. 
Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we 
pay particular attention to those where 
employees sustain injury due to an 
energetic event. We did, unfortunately, 
have three significant lost time events 
following unexpected ignitions during the 
year. One was at the Tennessee site of our 
US subsidiary, Kilgore; one was at our UK 
subsidiary, Chemring Countermeasures; 
and one was at our newly acquired Belgian 
subsidiary, Mecar. All such events are fully 
investigated and controls implemented to 
prevent reoccurrence. In the Kilgore incident, 
three employees were seriously hurt and 
continue to receive treatment. We wish them 
a rapid and complete recovery, and are doing 
all that we can to support them and their 
families through this difficult time. As Chief 
Executive, I am fully aware that it is my 
responsibility to ensure that every single 
one of our employees returns safely home at 
the end of every working day.
Revenue analysis
Revenue from US customers increased by 
25% during the year to £293.1 million, which 
now represents 49% of the total Group 
revenue. Sales to Middle East countries 
increased substantially during the year 
by 153% to £51.6 million, as deliveries on 
new multi-year supply contracts started. 
Revenue from UK customers decreased 
by 11% to £111.6 million, and the UK market 
now contributes only 19% of the total Group 
revenue. Revenue from European countries 
also decreased to £73.0 million during 
the year, a notable decrease on last year. 
These reductions were principally caused 
by the late timing of order placement by 
our main European customers. Given the 
weakness in European economies, we 
expect this trend to continue whilst the 
Middle East and Far East export markets 
continue to enjoy more favourable 
conditions. Revenues from Australia and the 
Far East increased by 13% to £44.1 million, 
reflecting increased deliveries of 40mm 
grenades to the Australian Army. 
Acquisitions
The Group made five acquisitions during 
the year; the three most significant 
were Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 
in California, Mecar S.A. in Belgium and 
Roke Manor Research Limited in the UK. 
Hi-Shear was acquired at the start of the 
financial year and has performed well during 
its first year of ownership. It provides the 
Group with some key product technologies 
and customer relationships that augment 
the existing pyrotechnics and munitions 
portfolios. It provides the US space 
programme with the NASA standard initiators 
and low-shock separation devices and does, 
therefore, have a strong relationship with 
NASA and the main US prime contractors. 
It also provides advanced electronic safety 
and arming fuzes for ballistic missile defence 
applications, which represent a buoyant 
market at the moment due to widespread 
concerns about growing threats from rogue 
states with nuclear missiles.
Mecar was acquired towards the end of the 
financial year, and will have a significant 
impact on our Munitions division in 2011. 
It provides an extensive range of mortar 
ammunition, and medium calibre and large 
calibre ammunition for light armoured 
vehicles (LAVs), including the ammunition 
used in the CMI 90mm Mk8 gun, which 
is fitted on the LAVs used by many 
non-NATO nations.
Roke was also acquired at the end of the 
financial year, and provides the Group 
with a very broad range of systems 
engineering, electronics, software and 
network design capability. Its electronic 
warfare capabilities will significantly enhance 
our Countermeasures division and allow 
expansion into a wider range of products. 
Its jamming and communications technology 
will significantly enhance our offering into the 
counter-IED market, and its sensor and data 
fusion capabilities will augment our detection 
technologies. Finally, Roke plays an important 
role in the UK cyber market, and the Group 
intends to develop a niche role in this rapidly 
expanding market. 
Research and development
Our strategy for future growth continues 
to rely on technology leadership and the 
rapid development of new products that 
meet the changing needs of our customers 
and displace those of our competitors. 
Our total expenditure on R&D grew by 81% 
to £34.2 million, which represents nearly 
6% of the total Group revenue. Internally-
funded R&D grew by 48% to £13.6 million, 
reflecting the strategic emphasis we 
continue to place on product innovation.
The two largest areas of funding are in our 
Countermeasures and Counter-IED divisions, 
where NIITEK and Chemring Countermeasures 
have been particularly successful in 
attracting customer-funded development 
of new products and technology for ground 
penetrating radar and naval countermeasures 
respectively. We also continue to place 
considerable emphasis on our partnerships 
with academic institutions. Our long term 
partnership with Cranfield University 
continues to expand, and we now have 
sixteen programmes running across areas of 
interest relevant to all four of our divisions. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
8
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all members 
of staff for their dedication and hard work in delivering 
the 2010 results. 
Capital investment
Capital investment in the year grew by 
22% to £40.9 million, which represents 
nearly 7% of Group revenue. £18.8 million 
of the investment was taken up with the 
continuing build of the new countermeasures 
manufacturing facilities at Salisbury in the 
UK, and at Lara in Australia. These facilities 
will be commissioned in 2011, and will provide 
automated manufacturing of the full range 
of our non-US magnesium and spectral 
flares, greatly reducing the exposure of our 
staff to risks and improving manufacturing 
productivity. Both facilities will provide a 
substantial improvement in operational 
efficiency and a flexible production surge 
capability. The Australian facility was recently 
audited by BAE Systems North America, who 
gave positive feedback on its suitability for 
second-source provision on the multi-national 
Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) programme.
A second principal area of investment was 
associated with the development of our 
Chemring Energetics facility in Scotland, 
where we have authorised an £11 million 
investment, spread over the 2010 and 2011 
financial years. The investment covers four 
new facilities: primary explosives facilities 
for the manufacture of detonators and 
initiators; the plastic explosives pressing 
facility for the manufacture of demolition 
stores; the Meccanite expansion facility for 
the manufacture of propellants; and the 
high explosive pressing facility for warhead 
manufacture. All of these facilities provide 
new manufacturing capabilities to the site and 
the capacity to meet the substantial growth 
in revenue that is expected in the future. 
Staff and employees
At the end of 2010, the Group employed 
a total of 4,283 people, 28% higher 
than the previous year end, although the 
majority of this increase was attributable 
to the acquisition of Hi-Shear, Mecar and 
Roke during the year. 45% of the staff 
are US-based, which is broadly in line with 
the geographic revenue profile. With the 
acquisition of Roke, the number of qualified 
engineers and scientists employed by the 
Group increased to over 600, about 14% 
of the Group. 
Although 80% of our revenue is currently 
generated with NATO countries, the fastest 
growth is taking place in the Middle East 
and the Far East, where nations continue to 
achieve double-digit increases in their Gross 
Domestic Product and regional instability 
justifies additional defence expenditure. 
With oil prices moving towards $100 per 
barrel, Middle East governments are relatively 
well-funded and should provide opportunities 
for growth over the next five to ten years. 
Countermeasures
In Afghanistan, the US Government has 
increased the number of troops deployed 
by 30,000, and taken the NATO deployment 
above 130,000. The US also deployed an 
additional two hundred and fifty helicopters 
and this should strengthen demand for 
flares to protect these particular platforms. 
Although the withdrawal of troops will 
start in 2011, both the US and the UK 
have indicated that they will maintain a 
substantial presence until around 2015. 
The major growth over the next five 
years will, however, be associated with 
the supply of flares and countermeasures 
to protect fast jets. These are principally 
used in operations against sophisticated 
opponents, where war stocks need to be in 
place for high volume usage during intense 
battle conditions. The entry-into-service 
of the Typhoon aircraft is one example, 
with large numbers of aircraft starting 
operations shortly within both Europe 
and the Middle East. The F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter (JSF) will probably be the most 
significant driver of growth over the next 
ten to fifteen year period. Although aircraft 
production has been slow, Kilgore has 
completed development of the JSF flare set 
and has just been awarded the contract for 
the low-rate initial production. Over the next 
five years, production will need to increase 
rapidly if the aircraft is to achieve the 
necessary operational protection.
Another major area of growth in the next 
few years is naval countermeasures. 
These are designed to protect ships 
against incoming missiles, particularly 
in circumstances when rapid-fire gun 
systems cannot be used, such as in shallow 
water next to other vessels. The Group is 
developing a range of new payloads to meet 
I would like to extend my personal thanks to 
all members of staff for their dedication and 
hard work in delivering the 2010 results. 
Future prospects
Market conditions
During 2010, the defence market faced 
some uncertainty as most NATO nations 
reviewed total government expenditure to 
address fiscal deficits built up during the 
banking crises. In Europe, in particular, the 
market weakened as the majority of nations 
announced cut-backs in defence budgets, 
averaging at least a 10% reduction over 
the next few years. The majority of these 
reductions will be achieved by cancellation 
or cost reduction on specific programmes, 
such as the termination of the Harrier force 
announced by the UK Ministry of Defence 
as part of its recent Strategic Defence and 
Security Review, rather than a general cut-
back across all areas of expenditure. This is 
particularly true for customers involved in 
peacekeeping operations overseas, who 
continue to procure substantial product 
volumes for both operational use and to 
replenish their national stockpiles. However, 
the review process takes time and, even 
when there remains a clear need, we have 
seen an average of four to six months delay 
in the timing of our usual European orders. 
Our US market, on the other hand, has been 
more robust with little sign of any consensus 
supporting significant cuts in modernisation, 
force structure, troop numbers or overseas 
bases. The recent announcement from the 
US Department of Defense indicates that the 
FY12 budget proposal will be $553 billion, 
3% higher than the FY2011 proposal, and that 
there is no planned reduction in expenditure 
over the FY2012 to FY2016 period. Although 
a number of important programmes have 
been cancelled, none of these has a major 
impact on the Group, and the plans to 
procure additional F-18 aircraft as well as 
send 1,400 more marines to Afghanistan are 
likely to increase demand for some of our 
core products. The US defence market is 
substantial and there is considerable scope 
for consolidation at lower tier positions 
in the supply chain. We believe that there 
are significant opportunities for growth 
in this market, both in 2011 and over the 
longer-term future. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
9
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The order book, healthy cash flow and a solid balance sheet give 
the Board confidence that the prospects for the Group in 2011 
continue to be excellent.
the changing threat and is seeing a growing 
demand for both its current and next 
generation products. To satisfy the overall 
protection requirement, the Group has also 
developed an innovative new launcher, 
called Centurion, that will significantly 
enhance the effectiveness of the rounds. 
A prototype system has recently been 
demonstrated to the UK Ministry of Defence 
in a live-firing exercise, and we believe that 
it will be selected for qualification on the 
Type 45 destroyer. The global market for 
the product is expected to be substantial. 
The order book for our Countermeasures 
division increased by 14% to a new record 
of £265.4 million, with a 44% increase in 
the order book for flares used on fast-jet 
platforms. Our US subsidiary, Kilgore, saw its 
order book grow by 95% to £115.8 million, 
a level that is more than twice its 2010 
revenues, providing high levels of confidence 
in achieving further growth in 2011 and 2012. 
Counter-IED
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar 
continues to operate successfully during 
counter-IED operations in Afghanistan and 
has saved the lives of many US and coalition 
soldiers. The US Army has just placed an 
order for another sixty four systems for 
delivery by the end of 2011. This contract 
has a potential maximum value of 
$78 million and will take the number of 
HMDS systems delivered to the US and 
Canadian governments above two hundred 
and forty. The US Army is expecting to 
place a multi-year sustainment contract, 
potentially worth in excess of $70 million 
per year, on NIITEK for the provision of 
spares, maintenance and training necessary 
to support the deployed systems. The 
acquisition of a next-generation system, 
involving more advanced multi-sensor 
technology and data fusion, will probably be 
announced towards the end of 2011 with a 
multi-year procurement awarded in 2012.
The year end order book for our 
Counter-IED division was £99.3 million, 
169% higher than the previous year. Most of 
the current order book is for delivery by the 
end of July 2011. The latest system order 
and the multi-year sustainment contract 
should ensure that the prospects for growth 
in 2011 continue to be positive. 
Pyrotechnics
There continues to be strong interest in 
illuminating payloads for use in peacekeeping 
operations. We are currently developing a 
“black light” payload for the 120mm mortar 
round, which will then complete our full 
range of illumination and “black light” mortar 
products. We have also developed some 
air-launched “black light” munitions that will 
be going through qualification in 2011. 
We have also seen strong demand for our 
components and sub-systems used in safety 
systems on a variety of military platforms. 
One area of growing interest is egress and 
fire suppression systems for Mine Resistant 
Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles that 
are often used in peacekeeping operations. 
Protection of the crew and easy escape 
from a vehicle on fire has become a major 
priority and we are working with a number 
of partners on satisfying both US and 
European requirements.
The overall order book for the Pyrotechnics 
division reduced slightly to £171.9 million 
but grew substantially in the US market. 
It provides confidence in the stable 
prospects for 2011 even if the European 
market continues to weaken.
Munitions
The naval ammunition market remains 
stable with a growing number of ships built 
over the last five years that are fitted with 
40mm, 76mm or 127mm guns. There is 
considerable interest in our products from 
Middle East and South American customers. 
The French Navy expects to qualify a 76mm 
operational round, with an insensitive 
explosive warhead, in 2011 and is expected 
to place a multi-year production contract 
during the second half period.
The Middle East and South America are also 
growing markets for our 90mm, 105mm and 
115mm direct-fire ammunition. In particular, 
the CMI 90mm Mk8 gun is often fitted to the 
light armoured vehicles prevalent in these 
regions and offers the Group a substantial 
opportunity to develop new customer 
relationships and markets.
The order book for the Munitions division 
grew by 126% to £266.7 million, more 
than twice the 2010 revenue. This provides 
confidence that the business will continue 
to grow in 2011 and 2012. 
Outlook
Overall, the future outlook remains 
encouraging with many excellent 
opportunities for growth. The Group has 
a strong order book, which at the end of 
the year stood at £803.3 million, up 44% 
on the previous year. Most of our products 
are short-cycle consumables with order 
coverage of between six and twelve months’ 
duration. The order book does, therefore, 
represent a reliable leading indicator of 
future revenues. The order book, healthy 
cash flow and a solid balance sheet give the 
Board confidence that the prospects for the 
Group in 2011 continue to be excellent.
D J Price
Chief Executive
18 January 2011
