 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
6
Review by the Chief Executive
The Group delivered another year of good growth. 
Revenue from continuing operations grew by 25% 
to a record £745.3 million.
Group results
The Group delivered another year of good 
growth. This was achieved despite the 
disruption within the US defence market 
caused by the extended Continuing 
Resolution position that delayed approval 
of the US government budget until 
the middle of April 2011. Revenue from 
continuing operations grew by 25% to 
a record £745.3 million. Approximately 
one third of this growth was organic
#
, 
with strong contributions from both our 
Counter-IED and Munitions operations. 
There were excellent performances from 
NIITEK, which delivered a further 77 ground 
penetrating radars for the Husky Mounted 
Detection Systems (HMDS) to the US Army 
for counter-IED operations, and from our 
European ammunition prime contractors, 
Mecar and Simmel, which both substantially 
expanded their Middle East exports. The 
Group revenue continued to be second-half 
weighted, with £415.5 million of revenue 
(56%) generated in the second six months 
of the year, a little lower than the average 
phasing achieved over the last ﬁ ve years.
It was disappointing however that, as a 
result of unexpected last-minute delays 
in customer approvals of product lot 
acceptance, £37 million of revenue 
associated with ﬁ nished product 
manufactured in September and October 
slipped out of the last week of October into 
the ﬁ rst few months of the current ﬁ nancial 
year. The largest element of the delay (36%) 
was associated with the ﬁ nal negotiation 
on the 64 system HMDS contract awarded 
to NIITEK in January 2011. All of the HMDS 
systems and spares had been manufactured 
and were ready for delivery but negotiations 
on the ﬁ nal contract pricing under open 
book requirements took many months 
longer than expected and were ﬁ nally 
completed in November 2011, just after 
the end of the ﬁ nancial year. The revenue 
achieved in 2011 was, therefore, about 5% 
lower than the Board’s expectations.
The order intake for the Group during the 
year was £819.1 million, 1% lower than 
the previous year, reﬂ ecting a balance 
between strong growth in two of our 
divisions and contraction in the other two. 
Our Counter-IED division generated 
£207.4 million of order intake, up 16% on 
the previous year, of which £46.1 million 
relates to the successful capture of the 
contract to manufacture the MK7 MOD 2 
Anti-Personnel Obstacle Breaching System 
(APOBS) for the US Army and Marine 
Corps. Our Munitions division also had 
an excellent year, with an increase of 
42% in order intake to a new record of 
£349.4 million, £244.3 million of which 
was awarded by Middle Eastern customers. 
Our Countermeasures division, however, 
saw a contraction of 29% in its order 
intake to £154.9 million, mainly driven 
by budgetary control actions in the US, 
particularly at Kilgore where our backlog 
levels are high. Order intake in our 
Pyrotechnics division was also lower than 
expected, down 41% to £107.4 million, with 
UK and US customers deferring annual 
purchases as part of their austerity and 
deﬁ cit reduction programmes.
The closing order book for the Group, 
therefore, reached £878.3 million, an 
increase of 9% on the previous year, 
although substantially lower than it was 
at the time of our third quarter interim 
management statement on 30 August 2011. 
Timing of orders from our Middle East 
customers and the impact on US orders 
from another year of Continuing Resolution 
budget management by the US government 
were the principal contributors. The 9% 
increase does, however, still provide a solid 
foundation for the growth expected in 2012.
The composition of the order book changed 
substantially during 2011, with a signiﬁ cant 
shift to non-NATO customers. Orders 
from NATO customers now make up only 
58% of the order book, with the Middle 
East reaching 27%. Order intake from UK 
customers has been disappointing, and our 
UK order book dropped 30% to only 13% of 
the Group total at the year end.
Our Counter-IED division had another 
excellent year, achieving a 46% increase in 
revenue to a record level of £167.6 million, 
reﬂ ecting strong growth in various 
detection and disable sub-segments of 
the markets. NIITEK had an outstanding 
year, increasing its revenue by 24% to 
Operational highlights
• Excellent performance from NIITEK, 
which grew by 24% and delivered a 
further 77 ground penetrating radars 
for the Husky Mounted Detection 
Systems (HMDS) to the US Army
• Our Munitions business had a 
tremendous year, with revenue up 
104% to a new record of £237.0 million 
and growing demand for our products 
from a variety of Middle East customers
• Acquisition of Chemring Detection 
Systems adds the US leader in chemical 
and biological threat detection and 
brings advanced capability in the 
stand-off detection of improvised 
explosive devices
• Our total expenditure on research 
and development grew by 74% to 
£59.6 million, which represents 8% of 
the total Group revenue
Key information
Year end order book
£878.3m
+9%
Revenue
£745.3m
+25%
Number of employees
4,679
+9%
*  Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
#
  Organic growth at constant US dollar excludes 
growth from contracts and customers acquired 
with Roke, Mecar and Chemring Detection Systems Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
7
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
£126.9 million, driven by high level of 
demand for spares and support for the 
200+ HMDS systems in service with the 
US and Canadian Armies on peacekeeping 
operations. Chemring Ordnance also had a 
successful breakthrough into the “defeat” 
part of the US counter-IED market by 
winning the multi-year competition for 
the manufacture of the APOBS for the 
US Army and Marine Corps. This system is 
designed to safely clear a footpath through 
anti-personnel mines and multi-strand wire 
obstacles. Production under the contract, 
which is worth up to $150 million over the 
next four years, will start in the second half 
of 2012.
Our Munitions division also had a 
tremendous year, with revenue up 104% 
to a new record of £237.0 million and 
growing demand for our products from 
a variety of Middle East customers. Our 
two prime contract activities grew very 
strongly, with sales of our ammunition for 
Light Armoured Vehicles (LAVs) up 198% 
to £158.2 million and our naval ammunition 
revenues up 122% to £20.4 million. Our 
prime contract business now represents 
75% of this division, compared to 53% in 
the previous year.
Our Countermeasures division delivered 
a steady performance, achieving a 3% 
increase in revenue to £200.8 million, 
including the full year contribution from 
Roke, which was acquired in 2010. The 
expendable countermeasures revenues, 
however, dropped by 17%, with a 29% 
reduction in demand from our principal 
customers for decoys used to protect 
helicopter and transport aircraft, in 
anticipation of the planned withdrawal from 
Afghanistan in 2014. Two upgraded naval 
countermeasure rounds completed their 
development and qualiﬁ cation programmes 
during the year and production deliveries 
are expected to contribute to growth from 
2012 onwards.
Our Pyrotechnics division generated 
revenue of £139.9 million, 18% lower than 
last year, with a large number of annual 
orders placed at reduced volumes, or 
deferred completely, as European and 
US governments reduced expenditure as 
part of their deﬁ cit control programmes. 
However, we did successfully capture 
the competitive, multi-year contracts for 
the improved submarine distress signals 
for both the UK and US Navy customers. 
These will put us in a strong position to 
address the global market, where the demand 
for diesel submarines continues to grow.
The underlying operating margin* achieved 
by the Group was 19%, lower than the 23% 
achieved last year, and took the underlying 
operating proﬁ t* to £141.8 million, which 
was 3% higher than the previous year. 
Half of this change in margin is attributable 
to recent acquisitions, which are generating 
lower margins than the continuing 
businesses. The other half came from 
margin deterioration in two of our divisions. 
The operating margin in the Counter-IED 
division reduced to 19%, with Chemring 
Detection Systems contributing four 
months of post-acquisition revenue at 15% 
margin. The largest reduction, however, 
was generated at NIITEK, where the very 
late cost auditing of the HMDS contracts 
disallowed any gains from risk mitigation 
and efﬁ ciency performance. Operating 
margins in our Countermeasures division 
reduced to 23%, with Roke contributing a 
full year of post-acquisition revenue at 10% 
margin and our expendable decoys business 
providing a 27% margin. This was a lower 
margin than last year (2010: 30%) because 
of lower decoy production volumes at 
Alloy Surfaces, in the US, and at Chemring 
Countermeasures, in the UK. Operating 
margins in the Pyrotechnics and Munitions 
divisions were similar to last year at 23% 
and 17% respectively.
Health and safety
It is with great regret and sadness that I 
have to report that one of our employees, 
who was injured during the September 2010 
incident at our subsidiary Kilgore Flares in 
Tennessee, was taken back into hospital 
during 2011 and subsequently died. We have 
supported her and her family through very 
difﬁ cult times and continue to extend our 
support and deepest sympathies to her 
family and friends.
As Chief Executive, I am fully aware of our 
responsibility to ensure that every single 
one of our employees returns safely home 
at the end of every working day, and we 
continue to invest heavily in safety-related 
plant and equipment improvements to 
reduce the exposure of our employees to 
danger. During the year, we spent more than 
£7 million speciﬁ cally targeted at further 
improvements in safety.
With the exception of the businesses 
acquired in late 2010 and 2011, all Chemring 
sites are certiﬁ ed to the environmental 
management system ISO14001 and the 
health and safety management system 
OHSAS18001. The outstanding sites are 
scheduled for certiﬁ cation during 2012. 
In addition to this external validation and 
surveillance, we continue to use recognised 
consultancies to support our audit 
programme to test the compliance and 
quality of our systems.
I am pleased to report that we had no major 
incidents in the year.
Our lost time incident rate (calculated 
using the US OSHA rules) reported in 
the last Annual Report was 1.06 per 100 
employees. When the historical data for the 
September 2010 acquisitions was included 
the rate increased to 1.67, and we worked 
hard during the year to drive the rate 
downwards and closed at 1.32. Eight of our 
sixteen businesses (six last year) reported 
no lost days in the year, which is an 
excellent achievement.
The Board recognises that the highest 
levels of safety are required to protect 
our employees, our customers and the 
general public. We believe that all injuries 
and incidents are preventable and we 
will continue to strengthen our long-term 
strategies to ensure that the Group 
improves its safety performance and 
reduces risk. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
8
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all 
members of staff for their personal achievements 
and hard work during the year.
Acquisitions
The Group made only one acquisition during 
the year. In July 2011, the Group completed 
the acquisition of the Detection Systems 
operations and certain related assets of 
General Dynamics Armament and Technical 
Products, a subsidiary of General Dynamics 
Corporation, for a cash consideration of 
$90 million (£56 million).
The business, now renamed Chemring 
Detection Systems, Inc. (CDS), is based in 
Charlotte, North Carolina. It is a US leader 
in chemical and biological threat detection 
and has advanced capability in the stand-off 
detection of improvised explosive devices. 
CDS is the incumbent supplier for two major 
US military vehicle-mounted detection 
programmes: the Joint Biological Point 
Detection System (JBPDS) and the Joint 
Service Lightweight Stand-off Chemical 
Agent Detector (JSLSCAD). In addition, 
its products include a stand-off IED and 
explosives detector and the Juno hand-held 
chemical detector.
The acquisition substantially enhances 
our Counter-IED business activities with 
leading-edge US technology for biological, 
chemical and stand-off explosive detection. 
It provides a complementary capability 
to our existing subsidiaries, NIITEK and 
Chemring EOD, and will help us expand our 
growing global market position.
During the summer, we were in discussions 
with a third party regarding a signiﬁ cant 
acquisition that would have made a major 
impact to our market position. However, 
the restructuring required to deliver the 
full beneﬁ t was considerable, and we 
felt that the vendor’s valuation of the 
business was too high. Although we are no 
longer pursuing this opportunity, the core 
strategy of the Group remains focused on 
organic growth that is augmented by small 
bolt-on acquisitions.
Electronics
In line with the Group’s strategy, electronics, 
including electronic countermeasures 
and IED detection systems, is of growing 
importance across our four market 
segments. With the acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems and Roke, we have 
signiﬁ cantly enhanced our capabilities in 
strategic emphasis we continue to place 
on product innovation. Our long-term 
partnership with Cranﬁ eld University 
continues to expand, and we now have 
sixteen programmes running across areas of 
interest relevant to all four of our divisions.
Roke now represents our largest 
concentration of research and development 
expenditure, with around 50% of the total 
funding directed at electronic rather than 
energetic products and technology.
Capital investment
Capital investment in the year grew by 19% 
to £48.6 million, which represents nearly 
7% of Group revenue. £19.7 million of the 
investment relates to the continuing build 
of the new countermeasures manufacturing 
facilities at Salisbury in the UK and at Lara 
in Australia. The UK facility has not yet 
been completed and has been delayed by 
technical issues with the safety critical 
software. These have recently been 
resolved, and initial production is scheduled 
for the end of 2012. Better progress has 
been made on the facility in Australia, and 
the ﬁ rst locally manufactured ﬂ ares were 
produced in 2011. Low rate initial production 
is scheduled for March 2012, but it will take 
at least another six months to work up to 
full volume manufacture.
A second principal area of investment 
was associated with the development 
of our Chemring Energetics facility in 
Scotland, where we spent £4.7 million 
on the completion of four facilities: 
the primary explosives facility for the 
manufacture of detonators and initiators; 
the plastic explosives pressing facility for 
the manufacture of demolition stores; 
the Meccanite expansion facility for the 
manufacture of propellants; and the high 
explosive pressing facility for warhead 
manufacture. All of these facilities provide 
new manufacturing capabilities to the site 
and the capacity to meet the substantial 
growth in revenue that is expected in 
the future.
Staff and employees
At the end of 2011, the Group employed a 
total of 4,679 people, 396 (9%) higher than 
the previous year end, although 109 of them 
were associated with our latest acquisition, 
electronic systems design, development and 
integration. In 2011, electronics contributed 
40% of the Group revenue, and this is 
expected to grow to 50% over the next ﬁ ve 
years. These electronic capabilities are in 
ﬁ ve niche areas:
• Initiation – delays, sequencing and 
safety/arming
• Detection – radar and infra-red 
stand-off technologies
• Electronic warfare – interception of 
communications and electronic attack
• Electronic countermeasures – active 
jamming systems
• Network protection – legal intercept 
and anomaly detection
Roke has become a strategic European 
centre-of-excellence for product and 
technology development of electronic 
systems. It is heavily engaged in the system 
engineering and software development of 
our CENTURION countermeasure launcher; 
it is designing low-cost, active-jamming 
technology for our air and naval expendable 
markets; and it has completed the design of 
our new SPLINTER hand-held mine detector.
In 2011, Roke was given the Queens 
Award for Innovation for its RESOLVE 
modular, man-portable, electronic 
warfare system for the exploitation and 
suppression of hostile communication 
equipment. RESOLVE is now in service with 
the UK Ministry of Defence and a number 
of customers in the global export market. 
Roke has produced and demonstrated a 
vehicle-mounted RESOLVE capability, and 
there is strong interest from Europe and the 
Middle East in vehicle-mounted surveillance 
systems for dedicated electronic 
surveillance applications.
Research and development
Our strategy for future growth continues to 
rely on technology leadership and the rapid 
development of new products that meet 
the changing needs of our customers and 
displace those of our competitors. Our total 
expenditure on research and development 
grew by 74% to £59.6 million, which 
represents 8% of the total Group revenue. 
Internally-funded research and development 
grew by 56% to £21.2 million, reﬂ ecting the  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
9
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Chemring Detection Systems. In addition, 
the year end ﬁ gure included a signiﬁ cant 
number of short-term contractors engaged 
within our UK operations during the last 
quarter of the ﬁ nancial year. Excluding 
these contractors reduces the year-on-year 
growth to around 4%. 1,798 employees 
(38%) are located within the UK and 2,047 
employees (44%) are located in the US.
I would like to extend my personal thanks 
to all members of staff for their personal 
achievements and hard work during the 
year. The Board understands how important 
our employees are to the success of this 
fast-changing business.
Future prospects
Market conditions
During 2011, the defence market faced 
greater uncertainty than in previous 
years, with the Eurozone crisis and 
European government deﬁ cit reduction 
programmes continuing to have a 
negative impact on defence budgets. 
Most of our European customers continue 
to delay their annual procurements by 
six months, and are looking for reduced 
volumes of consumables to save money. 
The UK Ministry of Defence, in particular, 
has substantially reduced its procurement 
of ﬂ ares and decoys for the protection of 
helicopters and transport aircraft.
The UK defence market continues to be 
challenging, with a contracting budget, 
signiﬁ cant changes to procurement 
structures, and substantial reductions 
in personnel. The impact of last year’s 
Strategic Defence & Security Review has 
gradually become clear but the structural 
reforms proposed by Lord Levene are only 
just starting to get underway. Of particular 
importance to the defence industry is the 
restructuring of the acquisition organisation, 
which may cause a signiﬁ cant disruption to 
the future procurement process whilst it is 
being implemented. A number of options for 
reform have been submitted to Ministers but 
a decision is unlikely to be announced until 
the middle of 2012.
However, it is the US market that has been 
far more challenging during the past year. 
No agreement was reached between the 
President and Congress on the size and 
constitution of the FY2011 budget, and 
Continuing Resolution funding of the 
US government continued all the way 
through the ﬁ rst half of our ﬁ nancial year. 
This mechanism maintains the funding for 
the government employees but prohibits 
new programme starts or increases in 
funding compared to the previous year. 
The Pentagon was hesitant to release funds 
for procurement until the full year budget 
was known, as they were concerned about 
the number of programmes that would have 
to be adjusted. The majority of our annual 
contracts were delayed into the second 
half of the year, reducing the opportunity 
for early deliveries from these contracts. 
Revenues from our US businesses were, 
therefore, heavily second-half weighted 
and greatly increased the risk of slippage 
into 2012.
The US government started its 2012 
ﬁ nancial year with further Continuing 
Resolutions, and there was a real threat 
that a twelve month Continuing Resolution 
might be adopted. This would have had a 
signiﬁ cant effect on the timing of annual 
contract placement, resulting in a stronger 
than usual second-half bias to our revenues, 
and a risk that sales would slip past October 
2012. However, in late December, the US 
FY2012 base defence budget was approved 
at $520 billion, and the Overseas Contingent 
Operations (OCO) budget, which funds 
peacekeeping operations in Afghanistan, 
was set at $115 billion. The funding contains 
a substantial year-on-year reduction in 
expendable countermeasures that will 
affect the Group, but this appears to be 
offset by opportunities in counter-IED 
and chemical/biological threat detection, 
and by strong growth in important 
niche product areas, such as demolition 
stores, pyrotechnics and medium 
calibre ammunition.
Details of the US FY2013 budget 
should be announced in February 2012. 
US Department of Defense guidance has 
focused on a base budget of $523 billion 
and OCO funding of $83 billion, which is 
a 5% reduction on this year. However, 
President Obama recently announced that 
he was looking for $263 billion of cuts 
over the next ﬁ ve years against the FY2011 
baseline, which equates to a base budget of 
$517 billion. If implemented, the US budget 
will reduce by 6% in FY2013 and then 
return to slow growth of a few per cent each 
year thereafter.
However, the 2011 Budget Control Act, 
passed in the US in August 2011, contains 
a “sequestration” clause that will 
automatically reduce US defence spending 
by a further $54.7 billion per year and 
threatens to reduce the FY2013 base budget 
to $465 billion. This will be very difﬁ cult to 
achieve without cancellation of important 
major programmes and may lead to serious 
cutbacks in all aspects of procurement. 
Although Congress has started to make 
plans to repeal the sequestration clause, 
the President has threatened to veto 
any attempts by Congress to block 
the automatic spending cuts. There is, 
therefore, considerable continuing 
uncertainty about the US market.
Non-NATO markets, on the other hand, 
remain buoyant with more attractive 
economic growth rates and lower ﬁ scal 
deﬁ cits. The International Monetary 
Fund
1
 forecasts that real Gross Domestic 
Product in India/Asia will grow by 7.5%, 
Latin America by 3.9% and in the Middle 
East by 3.6%. Defence spending in these 
regions continues to strengthen and 
they represent a very attractive market 
for the Group. Customers are looking to 
upgrade their products to near-NATO 
standards, to develop local manufacturing, 
and to eventually develop an indigenous 
design capability. The Group is ﬁ nding 
considerable opportunities in all four of 
our market segments, but the specialist 
capabilities that we have in direct ﬁ re 
ammunition, in particular, are proving to 
be a signiﬁ cant attraction.
Counter-IED
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar 
continues to operate successfully during 
counter-IED operations in Afghanistan and 
has saved the lives of many US and coalition 
soldiers. During 2011, NIITEK delivered 
77 HMDS systems to the US Army taking 
the number of systems supplied to over 
240. Negotiations with the US Army for a 
multi-year sustainment contract, covering 
systems, spares and support and potentially 
1
 World Economic Outlook, September 2011 published by the International Monetary Fund Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
10
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
The Board anticipates that organic growth will 
continue at a similar rate to that achieved in 2011.
worth in excess of $500 million, has been 
underway for many months, and the 
contract is expected to be received by the 
end of the second quarter. This will support 
the operation of the HMDS ﬂ eet until 
withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2015.
Good progress has also been made in 
developing the export market for HMDS. 
Agreement has been reached with MBDA 
Italy to provide the Italian Army with a 
modiﬁ ed ground penetrating radar system 
to go on the Calife pushed trailer and the 
IVECO VTMM multi-role tactical vehicle. 
Full development will be completed in 2012 
and production is expected in 2012 and 
2013. The Australian Defence Force has 
also selected HMDS for its counter-IED 
operations, and is looking to procure 
systems through the US Foreign Military 
Sales channels.
The US Army’s acquisition of a 
next-generation IED detection system, 
involving more advanced multi-sensor 
technology and data fusion, will probably 
take place in 2013, and they have conﬁ rmed 
that they expect to purchase in excess of 
500 systems over a ﬁ ve year period.
In 2012, the US Army will take the Milestone C 
decision to start full rate production 
of the nuclear, biological and chemical 
reconnaissance vehicle – Stryker Suite. An 
additional 100 vehicles will be built in 2012 
and a further 50 in 2013. This will boost 
demand for both the biological (JBPDS) 
and chemical detection systems (JSLSCAD) 
supplied by our new subsidiary, Chemring 
Detection Systems, and will generate good 
growth over the next few years.
The Group has also continued work on a 
customer-funded development programme 
for stand-off explosives detection. Three 
systems were manufactured and delivered 
for early user testing during 2011. Additional 
work is expected in 2012 to continue early 
user testing, to complete a production 
readiness phase of the current generation 
system, and to work on a next generation 
system for vehicle-mounted applications 
with on-the-move capability.
The qualiﬁ cation of our range of insensitive 
demolition stores is making good progress, 
and considerable export interest has been 
and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), will 
dominate the market over the next ten to 
ﬁ fteen year period. A technical problem 
with the dispenser, manufactured by a 
third party, has delayed volume production 
of the Typhoon units, and we are still in 
low rate initial production with the JSF 
ﬂ are set. With the approval of the US 
government, Chemring Australia has been 
identiﬁ ed as a second source supplier for 
JSF countermeasures and, after the US 
Department of Defense qualiﬁ es production 
in Australia, will compete with Kilgore for a 
share of the long-term production.
Another major area of growth over the 
next few years is naval countermeasures. 
These are designed to protect ships 
against incoming missiles, particularly in 
circumstances when rapid-ﬁ re gun systems 
cannot be used, such as in shallow water 
next to other friendly vessels. During 2011, 
the Group completed development of a 
range of new payloads to meet the changing 
threat and is now starting to manufacture 
these next generation products. The Group 
has also purchased, from Lockheed Martin, 
the manufacturing assets and intellectual 
property for certain legacy US naval 
rounds. Our new designs and the detailed 
knowledge of current US in-service rounds 
will position us strongly for a new US Navy 
procurement programme which will run 
from 2013 onwards.
The Group has also made good progress 
in the development of its new trainable 
launcher system, Centurion. A series of 
land-based ﬁ ring demonstrations were 
successfully undertaken last year, and 
a fully operational prototype is now in 
manufacture. Discussions with the Royal 
Navy on sea trials are underway, and the 
Italian Navy has recently expressed strong 
interest in undertaking an extended sea 
trial of the system on one of their San 
Antonio Landing Platform Dock vessels. 
Considerable interest has been shown by 
a number of US, Middle East, Far East and 
South American customers.
The order book for our Countermeasures 
division decreased by 12% to £234.0 million 
during 2011. Although this is normally a 
reliable lead indicator of trends over the 
next twelve months, it does not take into 
generated, both within and outside NATO, 
by our SABREX ﬂ exible linear cutting 
charge. The global market for products 
used to “defeat” the threat remains 
steady at £300 million, and represents 
an important area for future growth. The 
award of the multi-year APOBS contract to 
Chemring Ordnance by the US Army was 
a strong endorsement of the investment 
in technology and facilities. Technology 
transfer of our next generation demolition 
stores to the US should help capture a 
sizable share of the global market.
The order book for our Counter-IED division 
was £127.1 million at the end of the year, 
28% higher than the previous year. 
The growth has been driven by the APOBS 
contract. The HMDS multi-year sustainment 
contract has taken many months to 
negotiate, and the delay is reﬂ ected in the 
reducing order book. The delayed timing 
of the new contract will impact revenues 
at NIITEK in 2012. However, revenue from 
Chemring Detection Systems will offset this 
reduction, and overall, the Board expects 
good growth from this segment in 2012.
Countermeasures
In Afghanistan, the total NATO deployment 
is still 130,000 troops. However, coalition 
forces have announced their intention to 
withdraw their troops by 2015, starting with 
a reduction of nearly 40,000 by the end of 
2012. In anticipation of this withdrawal and, 
under pressure from budget constraints, 
most of our customers have cut back 
signiﬁ cantly on the purchase of ﬂ ares 
and decoys needed for the protection 
of helicopters and transport aircraft. A 
combination of reductions in the volumes 
ordered and delays in order placement is 
quickly reducing the current stock piles. 
Further reductions are anticipated in 2012, 
which will take production on some decoys 
down to a minimum sustainable level.
The major growth in expendable 
countermeasures over the next ﬁ ve years 
will, however, be associated with the 
supply of ﬂ ares and countermeasures to 
protect fast jets. These are principally 
used in operations against sophisticated 
opponents, where war stocks need to be in 
place for high volume usage during intense 
battle conditions. Two aircraft, Typhoon  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
11
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
account the high level of backlog at Kilgore 
or the delays in order placement caused by 
the US government’s Continuing Resolution 
funding. Strong growth in deliveries of 
decoys for combat aircraft programmes 
are, therefore, expected to compensate for 
the reduction in demand for those used on 
helicopters and transport aircraft, and a 
stable level of revenue can be expected for 
this segment.
Pyrotechnics
There continues to be strong interest 
in illuminating payloads for use in 
peacekeeping operations. We have 
developed a family of “white light” and 
“black light” payloads for the full range of 
mortar calibres, large calibre ammunition 
and for low signature, hand-held rockets 
that can be used by individual soldiers. 
These are all expected to enter into volume 
manufacture during 2012 and 2013.
We have also completed the initial 
development of a payload for the 
replacement of white phosphorous in 
smoke/screening payloads. A 120mm 
spotting round has completed development 
and will be qualiﬁ ed by the US Army in 2012 
for sale to Middle East customers under the 
Foreign Military Sales programme.
The overall order book for the Pyrotechnics 
division reduced by 16% to £145.5 million, 
with large reductions in the smoke, 
illumination and training parts of the market. 
However, the Pyrotechnics order book has 
a much shorter coverage, and the opening 
order book does not adequately characterise 
the scale of in-for-out orders that make up 
the full year performance. Lower demand 
for training and aircraft safety products 
is expected in 2012 but further growth in 
revenues for smoke, illumination and space 
products means that revenues approaching 
2010 levels can be expected.
Munitions
The naval ammunition market continues to 
grow, principally driven by the number of 
76mm guns ﬁ tted to new naval ships. There 
is considerable interest in our products from 
Middle East and South American customers. 
A live-ﬁ ring demonstration is planned in 
Italy to demonstrate its capability against 
pirate boats or fast attack craft to a number 
of Middle East customers.
The Middle East and South America are also 
growing markets for our 90mm, 105mm and 
115mm ammunition. In particular, the CMI 
90mm Mk8 gun is often ﬁ tted to the LAVs 
prevalent in these regions, and offers the 
Group a substantial opportunity to develop 
new customer relationships and markets. 
Discussions are also underway with the 
Brazilian government for the supply of 
90mm ammunition for the 400 new IVECO 
LAVs which they are planning to acquire 
over the next ten years.
The Group is under contract with General 
Dynamics Land Systems, Canada for the 
supply of vehicle-based 120mm mortar 
systems for sale under a US Foreign Military 
Sales programme. System deliveries 
will commence in 2012 and will involve 
production testing by the US Army during 
2012 and 2013, using Mecar supplied 
ammunition. New inspection requirements 
from the US government have delayed 
the expected delivery programme and the 
majority of deliveries are now scheduled 
for 2013. Annual ammunition contracts are 
then expected.
The order book for the Munitions division 
grew by 39% to £371.7 million in 2011, with 
strong growth in both the land and naval 
prime contract markets. Growth in 2012 
revenues is expected to be good, albeit at 
a lower rate than would be implied by the 
increase in the opening order book.
Non-NATO growth
The Group sells to a wide variety of military 
customers in 80 countries around the 
world. Over the last four years, revenues 
from non-NATO customers have grown 
by 360% and now represent 29% of 
the Group revenue. Economic growth 
and lower ﬁ scal deﬁ cits offer attractive 
markets for companies willing to quickly 
develop new products for their speciﬁ c 
needs, to establish local entities, transfer 
the technology for local manufacture, and 
develop over the long term the capability 
to incrementally upgrade products for 
the future.
We believe that we are well-positioned to 
develop our non-NATO business to 40% 
of Group revenue over the next ﬁ ve to ten 
years. Our niche ammunition products have 
provided the foundation for negotiations in 
a number of countries but interest is also 
high in our countermeasures, counter-IED 
and electronics technologies.
During 2011, we announced that we had 
reached agreement with the Hinduja Group 
to form a joint venture in India. Initially, 
the focus has been on a marketing joint 
venture, which will be pursuing a number of 
major opportunities during 2012. However, 
we expect to obtain Indian government 
approval for a defence manufacturing joint 
venture in due course, which will address 
the full range of the Group’s products and 
technologies. Similar discussions with 
potential joint venture partners are taking 
place in Saudi Arabia and Brazil, and the 
Group expects to announce more detailed 
information later in the year.
Outlook
Over the next two years, the NATO market 
will face considerable uncertainties and 
revenues will be constrained by government 
deﬁ cit reduction actions. Non-NATO 
markets, on the other hand, still offer good 
growth prospects but the timescales for 
successful implementation often take some 
time. Over the short term, therefore, the 
Board anticipates that organic growth will 
continue at a similar rate to that achieved 
in 2011.
In the medium term, there are good 
opportunities in all four of our business 
segments. The Group focuses on short 
term developments of products that 
match important and constantly changing 
customer needs. This agility and its wide 
breadth of technology allows the Group to 
target a number of well-funded, specialist 
niches and growth in market share at the 
expense of weaker competitors.
D J Price
Chief Executive
24 January 2012
