 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
4
two potential acquisitions. We went ahead 
with the purchase of Chemring Detection 
Systems but did not, in the end, proceed 
with the other potential opportunity, as 
further investigation indicated that it would 
not generate sufﬁ cient value. In the light 
of this, the Board has reviewed the balance 
sheet to determine the appropriate levels 
of debt and gearing for the Group in the 
future. We have taken a cautious view in the 
light of the world’s economic and ﬁ nancial 
uncertainties and will continue reducing 
debt levels when appropriate. However, we 
have also concluded that we should consider 
returning surplus capital to shareholders 
whilst maintaining the strength of the 
balance sheet. Accordingly, we will seek 
approval at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting to renew our authority to buy back 
shares, when it is considered appropriate, 
over the course of the next year. We would 
only expect to exercise this authority for a 
buyback of up to £50 million of shares.
The Board also considered its long term 
dividend policy as part of this balance sheet 
review. For many years, the Group has 
adopted a policy of maintaining dividend 
cover at around four times. With our strong 
annual cash generation, we believe it would 
be appropriate to reduce the cover to three 
times over the next year. As part of this 
move, the proposed total dividend for 2011 
will be covered 3.5 times by underlying after 
tax earnings* , compared with 4.2 times 
last year.
Group strategy
Over a number of years, the Group 
has pursued a strategy of combining 
signiﬁ cant organic growth from its existing 
businesses with a successful programme of 
acquisitions which have contributed further 
to the Group’s growth. This has enabled us 
to develop new products and technologies, 
and utilise our market positions to exploit 
opportunities. The acquisitions have 
usually been relatively modest in size, 
but have demonstrated a strong potential 
for expansion. Whilst there are none 
Statement by the Chairman
The Group has pursued a strategy of combining 
signiﬁ cant organic growth from its existing businesses 
with a successful programme of acquisitions which have 
contributed further to the Group’s growth.
Highlights
• Revenue up 25% to £745.3 million
• Underlying operating proﬁ t* up 3% to 
£141.8 million
• Underlying proﬁ t before tax* up 6% to 
£125.6 million
• Underlying earnings per share* up 5% 
at 52.1p
• Proﬁ t before tax £90.8 million
• Basic earnings per share 39.8p
• Total dividend per share for the year up 
25% at 14.8p
Key information
Underlying proﬁ t before tax*
£125.6m
+6%
Underlying earnings per share*
52.1p
+5%
Dividend per ordinary share
14.8p
+25%
*  Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
Chemring produced another year of growth 
in proﬁ ts and earnings, although both were 
affected in the last month by a slippage of 
deliveries into the current ﬁ nancial year. 
Revenue was £745.3 million, an increase 
of 25%, and this generated an underlying 
operating proﬁ t* of £141.8 million, up 3%. 
Underlying proﬁ t before tax* increased by 
6% to £125.6 million, producing underlying 
earnings per share* of 52.1p, 5% above 
last year. The Board is recommending a 
ﬁ nal dividend of 10.8p per share which 
will provide a full year dividend of 14.8p, 
an increase of 25% over last year.
The order intake for the Group was 
£819.1 million, which was slightly lower 
than last year. We saw strong order book 
growth in our Counter-IED and Munitions 
businesses, which was offset by a downturn 
in orders received in the Countermeasures 
and Pyrotechnics divisions. These two 
divisions suffered from reduced customer 
demand, which was driven, in the main, 
by government ﬁ scal and budgetary 
controls. The closing order book reached 
£878.3 million, which was 9% above last year.
In July the Group acquired the Detection 
Systems business of General Dynamics 
Armament and Technical Products for a 
total cash consideration of £56.1 million. 
The business, which is now operating as 
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc., is a US 
leader in chemical and biological threat 
detection and has an advanced capability in 
stand-off detection of improvised explosive 
devices. The acquisition greatly enhances 
the capabilities of our Counter-IED division, 
and has already made a good contribution 
to the Group’s earnings.
Balance sheet, cash ﬂ ow and debt
The Group generated an underlying 
operating cash ﬂ ow* of £124.6 million, 
which was 88% of underlying operating 
proﬁ t* . At the end of the year, net debt 
was £262.7 million compared with 
£307.5 million last year.
In April 2011, approximately £112 million 
of new equity was raised in order to fund  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
5
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Prospects
During the last year, many governments 
have struggled with increasing deﬁ cits and 
lower economic growth. This has affected 
defence procurement, leading to volume 
reductions and delays. The continuing 
problems of the Eurozone and the impact 
of possible sequestration in the US indicate 
that our traditional markets will not be any 
easier this year. We continue to pursue 
our policy of reducing our dependence on 
these markets, and will actively seek more 
business from elsewhere. It is encouraging 
to note that 44% of today’s order book 
emanates from these non-NATO markets, 
compared with 33% at the same time 
last year. We see further good growth 
prospects in these markets and will pursue 
the opportunities they offer. I am conﬁ dent 
that we have the products, the management 
and technological skills to achieve our 
objectives and provide the foundation for 
steady growth.
P C F Hickson
Chairman
24 January 2012
planned at the current time, we operate in 
markets where consolidation may become 
attractive, and we will therefore continue 
to consider opportunities when they arise 
and pursue them only if there is a clear 
opportunity to enhance shareholder value. 
We see long term growth coming from our 
existing businesses but there will be times 
when acquisitions may be appropriate to 
supplement and enhance our portfolio.
Board of directors
During the year, there have been some 
changes in the composition of the Board. 
Two new directors were appointed during 
2011. Sarah Ellard, who has been head 
of the Group’s legal affairs for fourteen 
years, joined the Board in October as 
Legal Director. On 1 November 2011, 
Vanda Murray, who has a number of 
non-executive appointments, was appointed 
to the Board as a non-executive director. 
I welcome them both to the Board.
David Evans, who has been a director since 
1988, ﬁ rst as Chief Executive and for the 
last seven years as a non-executive director, 
has indicated his intention to retire from 
the Board at the Annual General Meeting 
in March. During his time with the Group, 
David has made a major contribution to its 
development, and I would like to take the 
opportunity to thank him on behalf of the 
Board and wish him well in the future.
Dividends
In line with the revised long term dividend 
policy outlined above, the Board is 
recommending a ﬁ nal dividend for the 
year of 10.8p (2010: 8.4p). With the interim 
dividend paid of 4p (2010: 3.4p), this gives a 
total dividend for 2011 of 14.8p (2010: 11.8p), 
an increase of 25%. The dividend is covered 
3.5 times by underlying after tax earnings* , 
and with a solid balance sheet and cash 
ﬂ ow, the Group remains well positioned to 
increase its return to shareholders.
