 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Q: Given recent problems and the 
uncertainty in Chemring’s traditional 
markets, what changes have you 
made to ensure the business is 
more resilient in the future? 
A: We have achieved a great deal this year and made 
significant progress in realigning the business with the 
realities of the constrained defence spending environment 
that we are operating in, whilst also working hard to ensure 
that we have the correct management and reporting 
structures in place to more effectively drive business 
development across the Group. Under the Performance 
Recovery Programme, we have simplified the Group structure 
to become more coherent and integrated. 
Operational performance has improved as a result, with new 
measures put in place to manage capacity, reduce waste, and 
ensure consistent quality in our products. In tandem, we’ve 
focused sharply on cash and cost management, with a culture 
of stringent cost awareness now embedded across the Group. 
The business is more streamlined and, importantly, resilient 
to market dynamics; the restructuring, office closures and 
reduction in headcount will realise savings of £10.0 million 
per annum from 2014. These operational changes will allow 
us to be more flexible and respond to changes in demand, 
whilst putting in place a stable foundation for the future.
Q: How has Chemring been affected 
by the spending cuts in the US 
caused by sequestration and the 
shutdown of the US Government at 
the beginning of October? 
A: Spending cuts and uncertainty in the US have 
undoubtedly created testing conditions for all defence 
companies and we are no different. The US Government 
shutdown in October resulted in the closure of a large number 
of government departments. This included the Defense 
Contract Management Agency, the government agency with 
responsibility for inspecting and approving products for 
delivery to the US Department of Defense. This was extremely 
frustrating since it impacted on our October 2013 deliveries 
CeO questions and answers
“We have achieved a great deal this year and made 
significant progress in realigning the business. Despite 
the headwinds we are facing in our core markets, I am 
optimistic about the Group's long–term prospects.”
Mark Papworth, Chief Executive
to the US Department of Defense in the final few weeks of 
the financial year, and made it necessary for us to bring down 
market expectations.
Unpredictable events such as this have meant that we have 
had to adapt our business and have budgeted accordingly 
for 2014. It is prudent to assume that the effects of the US 
defence spending cuts will adversely affect Chemring during 
the coming year, although I would highlight that the US is still 
prioritising defence electronics spending and, as a result, we 
continue to see robust levels of demand for our Sensors & 
Electronics products.
Q: How well is Chemring placed to 
benefit from opportunities in  
non–NATO markets given the cuts to 
the US defence budget?
A: Non–NATO markets do represent an opportunity for 
Chemring and already account for over 25% of total Group 
revenues, through sales in more than twenty countries. 
However, they are not an instant remedy to the difficulties in 
our traditional markets: doing business in these geographies 
brings with it various cultural, political and commercial issues 
that aren’t present in the US, UK and Europe.
Q: When do you envisage a return 
to more encouraging trends in the 
defence market?
A: The defence sector is dependent on so many external, 
non–cyclical factors that this is very difficult to predict. We 
expect US, UK and European markets to remain subdued 
in 2014 and 2015, with visibility continuing to be limited, 
particularly in the US. However, we are starting to see signs 
that the UK defence budget is stabilising, and are seeing 
key export markets such as the Middle East, India and Brazil 
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
26 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
continue to grow. Although US defence spending is likely to 
remain under pressure in the medium term, we are expecting 
a return to top–line budget growth there from 2016 onwards. 
In the meantime, there is much we can do by way of self–
help to ensure Chemring’s performance keeps improving, 
regardless of wider market trends that are, frankly, outside of 
our control.
Q: What are your priorities for 2014? 
A: We have made good progress in our work to transform 
the way in which Chemring operates, and we will continue this 
during 2014, ensuring these changes are properly bedded–in 
and our integration programmes are complete. We will also 
focus on leveraging business development opportunities that 
the new Group structure engenders, including exploring  
non–military applications of our technology and increasing our 
presence in growing markets. We know that we have work to 
do to restore investor confidence given the issues of recent 
years. However , the recently completed Strategic Planning 
Process has confirmed the Group’s market–leading positions 
and the strength of its technology in a number of areas. 
It also highlighted new defence and adjacent non–defence 
opportunities that the Group has yet to exploit. We have great 
people and technologies at Chemring, and there is much to aim 
for in 2014 and beyond.
Q: What is your longer term strategy 
for the business?
A: In November, we announced that we had concluded that 
there are a number of businesses within the Group which 
do not form part of the longer–term business strategy, and 
that we had started a process to divest of certain of these 
businesses. Our strategy is to reposition the portfolio for 
future growth through technology exploitation. We will focus 
on our core competencies, directing investment into those 
lines of business which have technologies, products and 
market positioning that provide opportunities to achieve 
sustainable high margins and revenue growth.
Q: In which geographies, markets 
and products do you see the best 
opportunities?
A: We’ve already identified opportunities to move beyond 
our traditional markets through the Performance Recovery 
Programme, and the Strategic Planning Process takes this 
further. As things stand, we think there is good potential to 
expand sales of our Sensors & Electronics products outside 
the US and the UK. These products are subject to preferential 
spend in many countries and we have well–established, 
market–leading technologies that will help us capitalise on 
that. Non–NATO markets are obviously also a priority; we are 
particularly enthusiastic about India, a market where defence 
spending is set to double by 2017. 
The Middle East is another region where we have identified 
positive trends in defence budgets, with Saudi Arabia 
particularly keen to invest in security.
Q: Have you been able to preserve 
the Group’s safety record despite 
integrating businesses and 
reducing costs?
A: We are committed to ensuring the safety of all our 
employees, customers and the general public. This is 
ingrained in our Code of Business Principles, and the 
commitment of all management and staff to upholding them 
has remained undimmed by our restructuring programme. 
Integrating different businesses understandably brings 
challenges, but the creation of a safe working environment 
has been a priority in every instance. We’ve invested 
substantially in robotics and automated processes to protect 
employees working with volatile materials as part of a 
continual programme of improvements.
Q: How have you found your first full 
year in the job?
A: It’s fair to say that things have been challenging but that 
is no less than I expected, given the well–documented issues 
that Chemring was facing when I arrived. The backdrop of 
constrained defence spending in the US is clearly affecting all 
defence companies at the moment but I have to admit that I 
was surprised by just how much room for improvement there 
was in terms of Chemring’s operational capabilities. This gives 
us a great opportunity to turn the business around and we 
have already started to see some tangible benefits from the 
actions we have undertaken. Chemring has some excellent 
businesses with strong positions in markets that hold 
significant potential for the Group so, despite the headwinds 
we are facing in our core markets, I am optimistic about the 
Group’s long–term prospects.
27
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information
