 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Chairman’s statement
 
At the end of a year of 
significant change, Chemring is 
now a more resilient business, 
with a clear strategic direction. 
Much has been achieved by the 
new management team during 
the year, with the positive 
impact of the Performance 
Recovery Programme beginning 
to bear fruit. In addition, the 
Strategic Planning Process has 
provided a clear view of the 
market, competitive dynamics 
and prospects for each of the 
businesses, as well as identifying 
the core markets in which the 
Group will focus investment. 
Defence markets have remained challenging, and operational 
issues in certain businesses further impacted the Group's 
financial performance. In addition, the US Government 
shutdown in the last month of the financial year meant that 
government inspectors were not present in a number of 
the Group's facilities, thus delaying product acceptance and 
shipment in October 2013.
Performance Recovery Programme
In January 2013, the new management team established 
a Performance Recovery Programme focused on delivering 
improvements in operational performance and providing 
increased resilience to challenging markets. This led to a 
reorganisation of the Group to ensure swift and effective 
response to attractive market opportunities. The cost of 
this reorganisation and restructuring will be approximately 
£15.0 million, which has predominantly arisen in the year 
ended 31 October 2013, and will deliver annual savings of 
approximately £10.0 million from 2014.
The Performance Recovery Programme had five initial areas 
of focus:
• Simplify the organisational structure.
• Integrate compatible business units and deliver untapped 
synergies.
• Implement a systematic programme of operational 
performance improvement.
• Refocus business development activity. 
• Improve cash and cost management. 
Chemring’s previous organisational structure included 
significant divisional overhead, and this has been eliminated. 
Head office and divisional functions have been integrated into 
a single, tighter central management structure, resulting in 
a 46% reduction in head office and divisional headcount. The 
operating businesses have also been reorganised to provide a 
more effective reporting structure consisting of four strategic 
product segments: Countermeasures, Sensors & Electronics, 
Pyrotechnics & Munitions, and Energetic Sub–Systems.
Operational efficiency is improving, but it will take time to 
resolve all of the Group's operational issues. Clearer reporting 
lines and more rapid communication with the Group’s senior 
management are delivering improved focus, accountability 
and responsiveness. Crucially, customers are also benefiting 
from this streamlined organisation through a more  
co–ordinated approach to the Group's markets, product 
portfolio, quality and technology development.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
02 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Strategic Planning Process
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive Strategic 
Planning Process to determine its business strategy. This has 
provided a clear view for each of Chemring’s business units 
of their current market environment, competitive dynamics 
and future prospects. It has confirmed strong market–leading 
positions and the strength of the Group's technology in 
a number of areas, whilst highlighting new defence and 
adjacent non–defence opportunities. It has also identified a 
number of further operational initiatives which will enable the 
Group to manage the impact of current market challenges.
As a result of this process, a number of business units have 
been identified as not being part of Chemring's longer–term 
strategy. As a consequence, several divestment processes 
are now under way, the outcome of which should lead to a 
reduction in the Group's debt. 
The first of these divestments was in December 2013, with 
a conditional agreement for the sale of Chemring Energetic 
Devices' build–to–print business located in Clear Lake, South 
Dakota to AMTEC Corporation for $10.0 million (£6.1 million), 
payable in cash. Completion of the sale, which is conditional 
upon regulatory approvals and subject to a working capital 
adjustment, is expected within the next few weeks.
Trading 
Chemring’s improving operational performance has been 
adversely affected by the deteriorating external trading 
environment, largely as a result of budgetary pressures on 
global defence spending, which has manifested in delays in 
order placement in all our markets.
In particular, the US has seen a significant deterioration 
in defence spending due to the effects of sequestration, 
continuing resolution and budget reductions. This was 
heightened by the shutdown of the US Government in 
early October 2013, a key month in the Group's delivery 
schedule. The shutdown resulted in the temporary closure 
of the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), the 
government agency with responsibility for inspecting and 
approving products for delivery to the US Department of 
Defense. This closure impacted deliveries to customers in the 
last weeks of the financial year but these delays are expected 
to be resolved in the first quarter of the current financial year. 
Consequently, Group revenue for 2013 was £624.9 million, a 
decrease of 15.6%, generating an underlying operating profit 
of £72.1 million (2012: £88.3 million). Underlying profit 
before tax reduced by 25.2% to £52.4 million, resulting in 
underlying earnings per share of 21.6p (2012: 28.5p). 
Order intake for the Group was £534.5 million, 14.5% below 
revenue. As a result, the closing order book was  
£675.5 million (2012: £760.9 million), a reduction of 11.2%. 
The closing order book is lower than the value of £702 million 
disclosed in the Group's trading update published on  
25 November 2013, due to exchange rate fluctuations 
impacting the valuation of certain orders.
Board of directors
A number of changes were made to the Board of directors 
during the year. Mark Papworth joined as Chief Executive 
on 5 November 2012, followed by Steve Bowers as Finance 
Director on 7 January 2013. 
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial Officer between 
August 2012 and January 2013, became a non–executive 
director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on  
1 May 2013. Andy Hamment, who was previously Group 
Marketing Director of Ultra Electronics plc, joined the Board 
as a non–executive director on 1 July 2013. Two  
non–executive directors retired from the Board during the 
year: Peter Norriss, who had been a director since May 2004, 
stepped down at the Annual General Meeting in March 2013, 
and Roger Freeman, who had been a director since  
May 2006, retired from the Board on 31 December 2013. 
The Board is most grateful to both for their valuable 
contributions over many years.
These changes mean that Chemring has created a 
substantially new Board in the last two years. This fresh 
perspective will be important in meeting the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Group.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend for the year of 
3.8p (2012: 4.2p). With the interim dividend of 3.4p  
(2012: 5.3p), paid in August 2013, this results in a total 
dividend in respect of 2013 of 7.2p (2012: 9.5p). This 
total dividend is in line with the Group’s stated policy of 
maintaining a dividend that is covered three times by 
underlying earnings.
03
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Chairman’s statement
Outlook
Real progress has been made in transforming Chemring and 
the Performance Recovery Programme is eliminating a number 
of the issues that have dragged down recent performance. The 
benefits of the programme will come through in 2014 and the 
Group is better placed as a result. 
While sequestration of the US defence budget has been 
avoided, the difficult market conditions that Chemring 
experienced in 2013 are expected to continue throughout 
2014 and represent the most significant challenge that 
the Group currently faces. Growth in emerging markets is 
expected to be offset by defence spending constraints in the 
US, UK and Europe, and a recovery in the Group's traditional 
NATO markets is not expected in the medium term. The 
current strength of sterling against the US dollar, if sustained, 
will also impact earnings given the significance of the Group's 
US operations.
Chemring will continue to drive improvements in operational 
performance, and pursue the growth opportunities that 
exist, particularly within non–NATO markets where defence 
spending is expected to increase. It will also reshape and 
strengthen its portfolio of businesses through the disposal 
of non–core activities and technology investment in those 
businesses that can achieve sustainable growth and margin 
improvement. Meanwhile, the Board's expectations for the 
current financial year remain unchanged.
Peter Hickson 
Chairman 
23 January 2014
Underlying measures referred to in these financial statements are stated before costs 
relating to acquisitions and disposals, business restructuring and incident costs, profit on 
disposal of businesses, items deemed to be of an exceptional nature, impairment of goodwill 
and acquired intangibles, impairment of assets held for sale, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and gains/losses on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments. A reconciliation of underlying and total operating profit is set out in note 5 of 
the group financial statements.
Pictured right:
RESOLVE integrated tactical electronic warfare system.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
04 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
05
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
MOvING  
INTO NEw  
TERRITORIES
CASe Study
HUSky MOUNTED DETECTION S ySTEM (HMDS)
t he Husky Mounted detection System 
(HMdS) is a combat proven,  
high–performance ground penetrating 
radar (GPR) system, which operates on 
manned and unmanned blast–resistant 
vehicles that provide rapid ability to 
detect landmines and other explosive 
hazards, such as improvised explosive 
devices (Ieds), on main supply routes 
and open areas. Originally funded 
to satisfy an urgent operational 
requirement in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
the HMdS is now in use with the uS, 
Canadian, Australian and Spanish 
militaries. t he system’s success has 
resulted in it being recognised as a 
critical requirement in the protection 
of troops, and there is significant 
interest in the system from other NAt O 
countries.
t here were over 250 HMdSs in use in 
Afghanistan, and in the uS the system 
is now in the process of transitioning 
to become a baseline item in the uS 
department of defense budget. In 
October 2013, Chemring Sensors 
& electronic Systems was awarded 
a $10.6 million contract by the uS 
Army for the procurement of six 
HMdS test units, and a test support 
package. t hese systems will be used 
for advanced testing in preparation for 
a long–term procurement programme. 
t his secures the position of the HMdS 
as an enduring capability for the uS 
military over the next ten to fifteen 
years. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
See more information online 
www.chemring.co.uk
Strategic 
report
Overview
Chemring’s business model 08
Strategy 10
Global growth opportunities 12
Market review 14
Performance review
Business highlights 16
Segmental review  18
Countermeasures 18
Sensors & Electronics  20
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 22
Energetic Sub–Systems 24
CEO questions and answers 26
Financial review 28
Key performance indicators 33
Principal risks and uncertainties 36
Corporate responsibility review 41
Pictured left:
Husky HMDS checks a road for mines and IEDs in Afghanistan.
