 Companies that seek to communicate in today’s world
do so in an environment that is constantly changing.
Every week seems to bring a new, previously unconsidered,
channel or format: RSS feeds, EDGE-enabled mobiles,
blogs, Wikipedia, Google, podcasts. At Chime we talk
about a world geared to “watching three screens” rather
than one; and between them, those screens are birthing
new communications opportunities at a pace traditional
marketing models can’t live with. New media don’t meekly
emerge on the edge of the communications world and then
slowly elbow their way to the centre; they materialise bang
in the centre, transforming the environment around them. 
As we’ve discussed in previous Annual Reports, the
subversion of traditional authority structures is also
transforming the way that communication works. Messages
are no longer listened to with deference but judged
demandingly through a frame of reference that each person
develops for his or herself. No item of communication is
safe from critical judgement; a company’s brand and
reputation will ultimately decide how much credibility is
attached to its messaging, yet brand and reputation can no
longer simply be developed by companies: they are
themselves being communicated about by consumers and
their other stakeholders. Marketing and communication
professionals must now adapt to the fact that they have
less control over the messages they produce. 
The transition from “deference to reference” is both
enabling and enabled by the changes in the media
landscape. Web and mobile technology evolve channels
such as Instant Messaging, SMS, blogs and podcasts,
which provide the framework for the largescale sharing of
consumer opinions; the appetite for such organic
opinion-forming in turn triggers the development of yet
more user-controlled communication channels.
“In the modern communications environment, the
rate of change has taken us far beyond a question
of ‘survival of the fittest’. Any communications
company depending on its existing strengths to pull it
through will quickly find itself overtaken by events.”
Christopher Satterthwaite, 
Group Chief Executive
Chime Communications plc Chief Executive’s review
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
162315 chime front  5/5/06  20:49  Page 6 6 | 7
Public Relations Division
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontieres
Bell Pottinger Group
Bell Pottinger Corporate & Financial
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs
Bell Pottinger Business & Brand
Bell Pottinger Consumer
Bell Pottinger Sport & Sponsorship
Bell Pottinger North
Bell Pottinger USA
Bell Pottinger Middle East
Good Relations Corporate
Good Relations Consumer
Good Relations Political
Good Relations Property & Planning
Good Relations Wales
Harvard
Harvard GMBH
MMK
Traffic Advertising
Insight Marketing
Resonate
De Facto
Ozone
Rare Corporate Design
The SMART Company
Advertising & Marketing Services Division
VCCP Group Specialists
VCCP Teamspirit
Gasoline TTA Group
Pure Media
VCCP Digital
SFW
Research Division
Opinion Leader Research
Ledbury Research
Chime Network
Centre
Technology
Web and mobile technology evolve channels such as Instant
Messaging, SMS, blogs and podcasts, which provide the
framework for the largescale sharing of consumer opinions;
the appetite for such organic opinion-forming in turn triggers
the development of yet more user-controlled communication
channels.
“Our restructuring of Chime has been focused on
creating a Group that successfully evolves alongside
the challenges of modern communication.”
162315 chime front  5/5/06  20:49  Page 7 In the modern communications environment, the rate of
change has taken us far beyond a question of “survival of
the fittest”. Any communications company depending on
its existing strengths to pull it through will quickly find itself
overtaken by events: potential is changing so frequently
and so fast that it is simply impossible for a company’s
culture or intellectual resources to have anticipated every
development. The way in which a company can hope to
survive in such a fast-changing environment is to learn
and develop. 
Our restructuring of Chime has been focused on creating a
Group that successfully evolves alongside the challenges of
modern communication. This approach lay behind our
successful acquisition of VCCP last year. This is an
advertising agency that has evolved to reflect the role of
advertising in the modern communications world; we
therefore believe that the success it has already delivered to
the Group will continue in the years ahead.
VCCP’s approach is based on a realisation that
advertising’s strength lies in a ‘visual narrative’, the delivery
of image and images; not the delivery of detailed,
authoritarian messages telling consumers what to think.
The agency’s work for clients such as O
2
, Coca-Cola and
Dyson shows how effective a strategy it is. 
The arrival of VCCP has enabled Chime’s Advertising and
Marketing Services division to grow rapidly. The division
delivered operating income growth of 48% and operating
profit growth of 81% in the last year, with a margin up from
5% pre VCCP acquisition and 18% post VCCP acquisition
including the strong performances of Teamspirit and TTA.
An evolutionary approach is also central to the strategy of
Opinion Leader Research, which has developed a
consultative approach built on two-way dialogue between
research and audience. Opinion Leader are at the cutting
edge of deliberative research techniques which by involving
the audience provide solutions rather than mere feedback.
The Opinion Leader Group also contains the SMART
Company, a Corporate Responsibility consultancy that acts
as a change management agent for its clients in an area
with an ever-greater impact on corporate reputation. The
Group’s operating income grew by 31% last year, with
operating profit growth up 26% at a healthy margin of 20%.
Chime’s core strength, of course, lies in Public Relations;
this gives us a strong starting position when facing up to
the challenges of modern communications. The one
constant in communication over the last decade has been
the importance of reputation; it’s an importance that will
grow as audiences increasingly judge the credibility of
messages on their perception of the organisation and
people behind them. Our Public Relations division
continues to perform ahead of the market place, with
operating income growth of 11% and operating profit
growth of 24% last year. Bell Pottinger Public Affairs
continues as the number one agency in its sector, and
there were strong performances from Bell Pottinger
Corporate and Financial, Harvard and Insight. The division’s
margin increased from 15.2% to 17.1%.
We believe that we are better positioned than most to meet
the demands of the evolving communications marketplace.
However, it is not enough to evolve once. As part of our
ongoing commitment to change, Chime has developed an
internal learning programme to ensure that our agencies
anticipate developments in their respective environments,
and equip themselves to prosper in these dynamic
landscapes. Offering superior services, evolving in line with
modern communication demands, will support continued
growth in our margins, client retention, and cross-referral
of business with more clients serviced by multiple agencies
in the Group. These are all key elements of the Chime
growth strategy. Evolving isn’t just about survival; it’s also
about success.
Campaign Marketing: Top 100 Agencies 2005 PR Week: Top 100 Agencies 2005
“The one constant in communication over the last decade
has been the importance of reputation”
Chime Communications plc Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
162315 chime front  5/5/06  20:49  Page 8 8 | 9
Some of the high profile activities we
were involved in during 2005 include:
• DP World’s £3.9 billion contested bid for
P&O Ports
• Your health, your care, your say – UK’s first
ever Citizens’ Summit and the largest public
consultation ever conducted
• Launch of O
2 i-mode, the world’s most
popular mobile internet service
• The launch of “The Ball”, Dyson’s latest
ground breaking vacuum cleaner
• The sale of Marconi’s telecoms business
to Sweden’s Ericsson for £1.2 billion
• BAE Systems’ £2.1 billion purchase of
United Defense Industries
• Two major IPOs creating new FTSE 250
companies – Petrofac and 888.com as
well as a range of AIM admissions
• The NDA’s decommissioning strategy
• The largest ever order for Boeing 777
aircraft for Emirates Airline worth $9.7 billion
• The £100 million sponsorship of Arsenal
and its new Emirates Stadium
• Launch of a new Quality Standard Mark
for English Beef and Lamb
• The 80th anniversary celebrations of
Winnie the Pooh for Walt Disney
• New guide books for Madame Tussauds,
Warwick Castle, Alton Towers and
Chessington World of Adventure
• The £50 million sponsorship of Chelsea
by Samsung featuring Jose Mourinho in
TV advertising
• The promotion of new IT systems for
the Criminal Justice Board
Operating
income growth (£’m)
Advertising and
Marketing Services
+48%
Operating
profit growth (£’m)
+81%
Operating
income growth (£’m)
Research
+31%
Operating
profit growth (£’m)
+26%
Operating
income growth (£’m)
Public Relations
+11%
Operating
profit growth (£’m)
+24%
18.6
12.6
’05 ’04
4.3
3.3
’05 ’04
0.9
0.7
’05 ’04
40.1
36.2
’05 ’04
6.8
5.5
’05 ’04
2.4
1.4
’05 ’04
162315 chime front  5/5/06  20:49  Page 9
