 6 Chime Communications plc Annual Report 2006   
The Reputation Revolution
Reputation is governed by what you say, what
you do and what other people say about you.
The early years of the 21st century have been 
a time of revolution for the communications
industry, with the transition to a new media
landscape overturning old models of influence
and creating new challenges for those entrusted
with clients’ brands and reputations.
The success of the Group’s three divisions 
in the last 12 months owes much to the manner
in which they have anticipated these changes
and worked to develop solutions that work 
with them. 
Across the Bell Pottinger Group, this can be
summed up by an emphasis for our clients 
on ‘doing the right thing, and getting the credit
for it’. 
In VCCP’s case, it has meant developing a new
model of ‘visual communication’ that reduces
advertising to first principles and promotes
brand identity and brand awareness without
telling audiences what to think. 
The work of Opinion Leader has pioneered a
new form of deliberative consultation that goes
beyond polling and focus groups to establish
genuine collaboration with an audience,
delivering greater understanding of issues for 
all concerned.
Chime’s approach to public relations,
advertising and marketing services and research
is founded on an understanding that these
disciplines work best when integrated together.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Group Chief Executive
Brands and reputations can no
longer be managed in isolation;
instead, the true measure of
marketing and business success
is ‘Reputation’.
Campaign: Top 100 Agencies
PR Week: Top 100 Agencies
Integrated campaigns for the likes of the 
Qatar Financial Centre, reflects the reality 
that today’s communication must frequently 
address different audiences through different
disciplines. Brands and reputations can 
no longer be managed in isolation; instead, 
the true measure of marketing and business
success is ‘Reputation’. 7
Some of the high profile activities we were involved in during 2006 include:
High profile activities where we
advised clients included: 
• Devising and managing 
National Pensions Day, bringing
together some 1,100 citizens 
to debate the recommendations
of the Pension Commission on
pension reform. 
• The switch of GSK’s leading
migraine treatment, Imigran,
from prescription only to over
the counter.
• The communications strategy
for Sky’s corporate campaign
‘The bigger picture’.
• DP World’s successful 
£3.9 billion bid for P&O Ports.
• Playtech’s £550 million IPO on
the London market.
• The £34 million sponsorship of
Tottenham Hotspur Football
Club by Mansion.
• Creating the 118 118 online
Caroloke campaign.  
• Helping restore Foxtons’
reputation as London’s leading
estate agent following a series
of hostile accusations from the
BBC’s Whistleblower
programme.
• Driving the global launch of 
the new $15 billion Dubai
Aerospace Enterprise.
• Supporting sponsorship
activities for Emirates as it
became the first airline sponsor
of the 2006 FIFA World Cup in
Germany.
• The new labelling campaign 
for the UK’s leading food
manufacturers, Food & Drink
Federation. 
• Polo Ralph Lauren launching
the new Wimbledon uniforms.
• Managing the personal 
profile of Zara Phillips as she
became World Eventing
Champion and BBC Sports
Personality of the Year.
Awards we have won include:
• Health Insurance Award for 
Best Use of Marketing to
Intermediaries for Norwich
Union Healthcare.
• O2’s winning of the Marketing
Society’s Loyalty Award in the
2006 Awards for Excellence and
Campaign’s Poster Award for
Best IT and Consumer Durables
Advertisement for O2.
• IPA Effectiveness Awards
2006 Gold for O2 and Bronze 
for ING Direct.
• Marketing Week Effectiveness
Award winner for Financial
Services – ING Direct and 
winner for Technology and
Telecoms – O2.
• Winner in 2006 of two of the
Market Research industry’s
Excellence and Effectiveness
Awards.
Public Relations Division
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontieres
Bell Pottinger Group
Bell Pottinger Collective
Bell Pottinger Corporate & Financial
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs
Bell Pottinger Business & Brand
Bell Pottinger Sport & Sponsorship
Bell Pottinger North
Bell Pottinger USA
Bell Pottinger Middle East
Good Relations Corporate
Good Relations Healthcare
Good Relations Consumer
Good Relations Political
Good Relations Property & Planning
Good Relations Wales
Harvard Public Relations
Harvard GMBH
MMK
Traffic Advertising
Insight Marketing
Resonate
De Facto
Rare Corporate Design
The Smart Company
Advertising & Marketing 
Services Division
The VCCP Group
VCCP
BMT
Pure Media
VCCP Blue
VCCP digital
VCCP Search
SFW
Someone
Specialists
Teamspirit
TTA Group
Research Division
Facts International
Opinion Leader Group
Opinion Leader
Ledbury Research
Chime Network
Centre 8 Chime Communications plc Annual Report 2006   
Chief Executive’s review
Web 2.0 has grown the size of that room to the
extent that no organisation can afford to ignore
what’s said in it. Whilst a brand image belongs
to a brand, a brand’s reputation belongs to its
public. It is all the more powerful for that – and
all the more difficult to measure and control.
Modern reputation management involves far
more than third-party coverage, word of mouth
or buzz (important though these are). Brand
awareness and image may contribute to
reputation but they certainly do not control it. 
In the ‘upload’ culture, people judge you by
your actions rather than your words. The task of
marketing is increasingly to enable this process,
encouraging a brand to do the right thing, and
encouraging a brand’s public to participate in
and interact with its reputation.
People or brands with poor reputations tend 
to say one thing and do another. Conversely,
brands with good reputations tend to do what
they say. Either way, people notice – and
people tend not to keep it to themselves.
How did Channel 4 behave when confronted
with the racism row over Big Brother? Was
Charles Dunstone right to pull The Carphone
Warehouse’s sponsorship of the show in
response? These are no longer simply matters
for Campaign or Marketing Week. The entire
country has a view.
The reputation revolution has been driven by
the internet, or more precisely, the explosion in
social networking that the internet has enabled.
In a world in which people trust people like
themselves more than sources of authority, 
in which points of shared interest are being
connected through millions of online forums,
and in which transparency is a fact of life, our
approach to brand communications needs 
to change. As the furore around Big Brother
perfectly illustrates, we have moved from 
a ‘download’ mentality to an ‘upload’ one. 
The balance of power now lies with user-
generated, ‘uploaded’ points of view. The 
old rules of marketing and public relations 
don’t work anymore.
The Wikipedia consensus describes reputation
as “the general opinion (more technically, a
social evaluation) of the public toward a person,
a group of people or an organisation”. In other
words, reputation is a social phenomenon. 
The most succinct way I’ve heard it described
is, “what people say about you when you’ve 
left the room”. 
Good people and good brands are able to
display integrity because they know who they
are and behave accordingly. Bad people and
bad brands lack this inherent self-awareness.
It’s therefore hardly a surprise that good brands
tend to be the brands in touch with their
audiences, the ones that listen to them intently. 
As a result, good brands know what decisions
to take, what is ‘right’ and what fits with 
the times. This enables them to be true to
themselves, yet innovate with integrity. In the
world of brand reputation, this is the only true
route to success. The fact that brand reputation
follows different rules does not mean that it
follows no rules at all. 
The success that Chime has delivered over the
past 12 months has come from a willingness 
to explore the ways in which the new media
landscape has transformed our business, and
develop innovative solutions to meet those
challenges, be they through public relations,
brand marketing, innovative research
techniques, or a combination of all three. 
Over the course of this report we will describe
some of the solutions that Chime agencies have
developed, as well as additional measures that
the Group is taking to anticipate the next stages
of the brand reputation revolution. 
It’s an approach that has brought success
across the Group in 2006 and we expect it to
continue to do so in the future.
Brand reputation is headline news this week, last
week and I guarantee every week this year. 
In the ‘upload’ culture, people
judge you by your actions rather
than your words. The task of
marketing is increasingly to
enable this process, encouraging
a brand to do the right thing, 
and encouraging a brand’s
public to participate in and
interact with its reputation. 9
“To thyself be true in all you say and do”.
Brand reputation is fragile. But do you
know what your brand really stands for?
In a service orientated economy, brands
help guide internal behaviours and deliver
a brand’s promise consistently. 
Accept that you can no longer control 
the message. All you can do is join in the
conversation and believe that you have 
a more persuasive voice. 
Chatham House rules no longer exist 
and have been replaced by Glass House
rules. Be prepared for anything you say 
to be repeated or passed on, especially
e-mails.
Reference has replaced deference. 
All brand communication must measure
up to the closest scrutiny and ideally fuel
brand conversations.
Better to under promise and over deliver
than fall into the ‘raised expectation/low
delivery’ trap.
Reputation is earned. Customers are
increasingly looking for the values behind
brands, so ‘what you do’ to create your
brand every day is becoming a more and
more serious factor of choice. Care for
your employees, care for the environment,
care for the ingredients of your brand will
have a greater and greater influence on
your reputation as information is shared
across the connected world of your
employees, stakeholders, detractors 
and customers.
Those closest to you tend to be your
fiercest critics. In some instances they
become whistleblowers. Treat them
complacently at your peril. Over
communicate to those closest to you 
to keep them as connected to your brand
as possible. 
Reputation is a social phenomenon. 
Often “less is more”. Charismatic brands
rely on a visual narrative more than a verbal
narrative. This provides huge scope 
for advertising, which can leverage the
visual, whereas public relations tends to
the verbal.
Brand reputation depends on its weakest
link. What are your brand moments of
truth? Are you geared to fulfil customers’
expectations of them?
Gear your brand and corporate
communications resource to the
interconnected world of Web 2.0.
Marketing Directors working in isolation
from Communication Directors is a recipe
for disaster and increasingly the functions
should be merged or reconfigured, e.g.
into ‘brand newsrooms’. Entrepreneurial
and service-orientated companies act like
this already.
Brand owners have long known that
‘perception is reality’. In a Web 2.0
environment perception is increasingly
‘Googled reality’. Successful brands of the
future will monitor market conversations
and engage with them as second nature.
‘User generated uploads’ are a 24/7
reality. Politicians speak of “permanent
campaigning” and the need to win hearts
and minds through the media on a daily
basis. Brands of the future will employ
brand newsrooms as a commonplace
function, much as successful retail brands
like Marks & Spencer do today.
Everything is getting faster. Kick the 
habit of using historical panel data that
records points of view so long after the
conversations have happened that 
they have little relevance to action. 
Use research to involve your customers in
the development of your brands and track
attitudes in real time when you can enter
the conversation if you choose to.
The Wikipedia consensus describes reputation as “the general opinion
(more technically, a social evaluation) of the public toward a person, 
a group of people or an organisation”. 
In other words, reputation is a social phenomenon. The most succinct 
way I’ve heard it described is, “what people say about you when you’ve 
left the room”.  
What you say What you do What others say about you
