 06    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Building reputations in a
diversified world
Glance through the portfolio of
work that illustrates our 2007
Annual Report, and two themes
may strike you.
The first is the sheer diversity of communications
represented: the use of channels that spread
from traditional press management and
advertising through to fully integrated public
relations, sponsorship, sports marketing, search
engine marketing, digital solutions and campaigns
that include all of these elements and more.
The second is the type of success they
delivered: more than uplifts in brand awareness
or improvements in public image. Chime actively
creates, manages and restores reputations,
delivering benefits to our clients that are longer-
term, more fundamental and more powerful.
Recent shifts in the communications
environment mean that such a mix of work is
no longer as eyebrow-raising as it might have
been a few short years ago. For the first time
since the advent of commercial television, over
50% of worldwide marketing spend now goes
to diversified communications, and less than
half to advertising and media expenditure. 
Peacemaking
Client: Faiths Join Hands
On 13 October 2007, faith made front page news around the world.
A letter signed by 138 Muslim leaders and addressed to the leaders
of Christianity was released in London, Abu Dhabi and Washington.
Its plea for peace between the two religions was hugely significant
in our post 9/11 world. The client needed the release to be managed
with tact, perfect co-ordination, and understanding. Bell Pottinger
obliged, to the letter. 
Simplifying
Client: Dyson
James Dyson is engineering’s
evangelist. He believes that
with a strong benefit, and style,
Dyson products can appeal to
all. As in Bell Pottinger and
VCCP’s Dyson work. VCCP’s
pared down commercials for
the Dyson Ball demonstrated
with elegantly fluid animation
the Ball’s unique mobility. 
No need for high drama (or a
big press campaign). Because
the best agencies let the best
products speak for themselves.
Simple, isn’t it? Chief Executive’s review   07
Chime’s scope of work today demonstrates our
understanding of this new ground; it is also an
affirmation of the positioning and strategy that
the Group has followed since 2005. That was
the year when we announced the development
of Chime as a modern communications group,
evolving to meet the demands of a rapidly
diversifying communications sector. 
Since then we have achieved leadership
positions in the fastest-growing niches of that
diversified world, delivering above average rates
of growth through disciplines such as public
affairs, sports marketing, online search, digital,
public relations, specialist communications and
brand communications.
Today that leadership can be seen not only in
the growth delivered by the Group as a whole,
but in the quality and effectiveness of work for
clients such as O2, Emirates, Texaco, British
Athletics and Lucozade.
Chime argues that reputation is now the ultimate
measure of communications success, and that
reputation management is at least as central to
a client’s success as brand management. This
common understanding runs throughout the
Group, giving Chime a clear, credible and
unique position in the new communications
marketplace. It allows us to draw diverse
disciplines, companies and communications
channels together in integrated and innovative
campaigns that remain focused, purposeful and
deliver real benefits to our clients. 
We have always said that Reputation is a
product of what you say, what you do, and
what others say about you. Chime’s own
reputation is very much a case in point. What
we have done in establishing ourselves as a
carbon neutral communications company gives
us the credibility to co-ordinate challenging,
change-driving events such as The Prince of
Wales’s May Day Summit with Business in the
Community and the Faiths Join Hands initiative.
What others say about us has played a strong
role in the growth of our business over the 
last two years, with client referral and
recommendation the most consistent elements
in the arrival of new business across the Group.
This in turn has allowed agencies such as Bell
Pottinger Sans Frontieres to deliver strong
growth whilst retaining their vital reputation for
tact and discretion.
The global marketplace is today grappling with
an age of open criticism ushered in by the
worldwide web, in which brands and
organisations accustomed to operating within
deferential media environments find themselves
exposed to free moving criticism and discussion
online. Skills and techniques that have been
honed in the UK’s media environment, with its
multitude of media channels and long-running
tradition of free speech, are highly valued in
other markets as a result. Chime’s reputation
management model has been exported to the
Middle East over the last year and we expect
overseas expansion to play a significant role in
the future growth of the Group. 
Despite gloomy economic forecasts for the UK
and other western economies, we therefore
remain strongly positive about Chime’s
prospects for the coming year. We offer a hard-
working model with proven results that is
experiencing broad, growing international
demand, and we deal in an asset – reputation.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Group Chief Executive
Chime argues that reputation is
now the ultimate measure of
communications success, and
that reputation management is
at least as central to a client’s
success as brand management.
This common understanding
runs throughout the Group,
giving Chime a clear, credible
and unique position in the new
communications marketplace.
Chime’s scope of work today
demonstrates our understanding
of this new ground; it is also an
affirmation of the positioning
and strategy that the Group has
followed since 2005.
Entertaining
Client: The O2
One million people visited The O2 in its first
eight weeks. 
VCCP’s launch television campaign had shot
the white elephant of the dome stone dead,
rebranding it as London’s new home of
entertainment. Narrowing their aim, VCCP’s
print and online work invited O2 subscribers
to accept privileged ticket access. SMS and
e-mail campaigns aimed tighter, targeting O2
subscribers according to musical taste. 
Has it worked? O yes: 125,000 O2 subscribers
have bought tickets to date. 
Strengthening
Client: UK Athletics
No other athletics federation has the profile, or income, of UK Athletics. 
No British sport outside football has gained sponsorship anywhere near
the £50 million Fast Track secured from Norwich Union. Yet when Fast
Track were appointed in 1998, funding and events were badly out of
condition. Now, commercial income is fast approaching £13 million and
the BBC broadcasts seven world class UK Athletics events annually.
Because Fast Track went the distance.
