 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review
4
A time for trust
The credit crunch has triggered
a global conversation about
business. Governments are
taking part; the media has a
leading role; the internet is alive
with comment and criticism;
regulators are actively engaged;
public policy groups are
contributing and customers of
all types of businesses are vocal
in their opinions about what has
gone wrong and what needs
to be put right.
If you are not taking part in this global debate, it’s unlikely
that you can become part of the solution. Never have the
reputations of governments, public bodies, businesses,
brands and NGOs depended more on communications.
Across the Chime Group, we are working with our clients
in each of these sectors and trying to help them have
a constructive voice in the debate. If you don’t take part,
you risk your reputation. If you do take part, you need
to have clarity on where you stand, what you do and
what your overall point of view is.
So despite the uncertain economic conditions we find
ourselves in, the need for communication has never been
greater. If you add to this need the continuing explosion
of communication options available for our clients – even
politicians are Twittering – the need for modern
communications is clear.
A recent research study by Opinion Leader examines the
declining degree of trust that people have in all organisations.
Being seen to push vested interests or demonstrating
incompetence undermines trust; understanding customer
needs and addressing them in what a business says and
does, help to build it. Helping our clients to maintain a trusted
voice in the ongoing debate is where we come in.
Trusted organisations are those that can demonstrate that
they walk in their customers’ footsteps. They are confident
about being transparent in what they say and in how they
handle disagreements or criticism. They understand that
communication is as much about listening as persuading.
They embrace the information age by having a 24/7
approach to communication, whether answering the
demands of the media or taking part in social networks.
This Annual Report demonstrates how companies that can
help to build this trust continue to add value to clients despite
the difficult economic climate. Throughout our divisional
reviews you’ll find a number of themes that help to explain
the resilience of our companies’ performance: diversified
business models; healthy exposure to public sector work
in PR and advertising; leading expertise in Corporate
Responsibility (CR), where demand is being driven by the
regulatory environment; strong growth in international
business. The progress of our Middle East business and
finally progress in sports marketing which is becoming a
critical aspect of major clients communications. I would
argue, though, that the most important factor is the quality
of the work across all of our divisions, a reputation for
innovative and effective solutions, and a proven track
record for building trust and reputation.
“Never have the reputations
of governments, public
bodies, businesses, brands
and NGOs depended more
on communications.” Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
5
Chief Executive’s review
“Companies that can help
to build this trust continue
to add value to clients
despite the difficult
economic climate.”
• Representing Rupiah Banda in the Zambian Presidential
Election; he won
• Mubadala’s sponsorship of Ferrari
• The Lysander Gatwick Investment Group bid for London
Gatwick Airport
• The Food Standards Agency advertising campaign for
saturated fats
• Emirates’ sponsorship of the Rugby Sevens World Cup
• The new advertising campaign for
‘Comparethemarket.com’
• The launch of the Department of Health’s new Hepatitis
C awareness campaign
• The launch of the report on the future of the luxury
industry commissioned by De Beers
• BT’s sponsorship of the Paralympic World Cup
• The study into the Future of Financial Advice and
Distribution on behalf of Aegon
• Entry into service of the largest fleet of the world’s
biggest aircraft – the Airbus A380 superjumbo for
Emirates Airline
Some of the high-profile activities we were
involved in during 2008 include:
Numerous highlights stand out from the year. VCCP’s
‘Alcohol: Know your limits’ campaign combined creative
flair with a deep understanding of digital media and modern
opinion-forming and used this to deliver fantastic levels
of engagement around a sensitive message. Teamspirit’s
award-winning launch of MetLife in the UK proved just
how powerful a well-constructed brand reputation can be.
Fast Track’s Lucozade Sport Performance League helped
amateur footballers across the country to realise their
potential, whilst building strong grassroots support for the
brand. The groundbreaking study of the impact of Unilever’s
operations on Southern Africa, conducted by Corporate
Citizenship, is an excellent example of the power of
communicating values through actions. Opinion Leader’s
work for Bupa demonstrated the strategic role of deliberative
research. Meanwhile, the successful election campaign of
President Banda in Zambia and innovative work for Müller,
Fortnum & Mason and GS4 provided further demonstrations
of the expertise of the PR Division in building powerful and
valuable reputations across all regions, sectors and scenarios.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Group Chief Executive
