 6 Chime Communications plc
Jeff Immelt of GE first coined the phrase, 
“Re-set World” to describe a business
environment turned on its head by the credit
crunch and subsequent downturn. Immelt was
not talking primarily about Communications.
But he could have been. At Chime we believe
that Communications is one of the areas of
business activity that has been “Re-set” more
rapidly and completely than any other.
Overview 
What does the Communications Re-set look like? 
The simple answer is that it looks increasingly digital.
Of course, the internet was around long before the
credit crunch but the last two years have accelerated
its role in Communications and its impact on brands
and reputation. Today the web is the distribution
channel through which brands and products are
consumed as well as communicated, a social channel
through which reputation is created and enacted, 
a channel for immediate measurement and dialogue, 
a means of distribution and transaction and a channel
that demands rapid responses from all communicators
be they individuals, brands, companies or countries.
The multi-functionality has changed the way that
Communications approaches the internet; it has 
also triggered important changes in the way other
channels are used.
Take the introduction of multimedia newsrooms across
both TV news channels and national newspapers,
which deliver stories in different forms, through
different media channels at different times of the day.
The approach that works for TV won’t necessarily
work online; the strengths of a radio discussion are
very different to those of mobile channels. All are more
likely to be consumed at different times. Recognising
the differences between the channels and the value
that each can bring to a story is now central to all
communication plans. In a fragmenting media universe,
the ability to communicate a message irrespective of
format and channel has become the goal.
Integration 
Advertisers and advertising agencies have long
spoken of the need for creative ideas that can
transcend one media channel or another. They haven’t
always acted like they mean it. All too often, a ‘Big Idea’ 
has come to mean a big TV ad with other formats
tagged on. In the Re-set World this is simply no longer
an option: building a campaign around one dominant
channel simply misses too many consumer contact
points. In a recent piece for the advertising trade
magazine, Campaign, VCCP’s Stu Parkinson argues
convincingly that even those at the cutting edge of
digital advertising must remember the importance of
ideas, experiences and connections that work across
channels. We would cite O2’s communications as a
perfect example of that approach.
Chime’s purpose is the business of building brands
and reputations and this happens through
conversations. Today, the dialogue is more prominent
than ever; and because of the internet, it is also vastly
more measurable. Increasingly the objective of
Communications is to build social participation with
and around a brand rather than simply delivering a
fully formed brand message to consumers. Aleksandr,
the computer-generated Meerkat used by VCCP to
promote compare-the-market through Twitter,
Facebook and (yes) TV, provides a great example.
Re-set reputations 
In the Re-set World, brands and corporate reputation
cannot be separated. Consumers can no longer be
expected to focus on the former while conveniently
ignoring the latter. Toyota was able to track the impact
of its product recall through the increasing number of
Google searches for rivals General Motors and Ford.
The brand of Manchester United has been subverted
by fans angered by their perceptions around
management of the club. The Re-set world of
re-set
Chief Executive’s Statement communications is about customer participation as
much as customer satisfaction.
Sustainability, which cynics once predicted would
disappear from the agenda at the first sniff of a recession,
has instead seen its scope and significance hugely
expanded. Sustainable businesses are no longer seen
as ‘green’; they are well-run businesses, and it is well-
run businesses and brands that consumers choose to
align themselves with in the Re-set World. Transparent,
credible sustainability is today as important to brand
success as the size of a media budget. Unilever has
recognised as much with the introduction of its brand
footprint strategy, drawing clear connections for
consumers between governance and the products
they choose.
Re-set opportunities 
The Communications Re-set has brought disruption
elsewhere. And with that disruption comes opportunity.
The importance of brand experience in engaging
across fragmented media channels is helping to drive
the growth of our Sports Marketing division, as the
tangible connections delivered by sponsorship are
given global reach through the power of the internet.
Emirates’ hugely successful strategy of supporting the
passion drivers (usually sports) for different communities
around the world, HSBC’s exceptional activation
strategy for the Lions rugby tour of South Africa: both
show the rapidly accelerating importance of brand
experiences that stand above different formats.
The government work conducted by Chime agencies
such as Bell Pottinger Sans Frontières is also taking
place against the background of a Re-set World.
Today it is the developed world that must deal with
perceptions of debt and instability, whilst developing
economies appear poised to take advantage. Our
involvement with countries such as Bahrain is very
exciting in this regard.
Research, meanwhile, is re-inventing itself to suit 
the demands for dialogue, accountability and
actionable insight. Today it must provide clients 
with immediate benefits in increasing the efficiency 
of campaigns whilst providing foresight around 
future trends and opportunities.
These are just some of the ways in which interpreting
the Re-set World is helping to keep Chime ahead of its
competitors as we strive to deliver our brand promise of
‘the Modern Communications Group’. The growth that
the Group has delivered over the last year has been
achieved not despite the Re-set World but because 
of it. The core strengths of our approach will enable
Chime companies to continue to take a leading role in
re-interpreting Communications and helping clients to
meet their challenges in the years ahead.
Christopher Sattherthwaite
Chief Executive
10th March 2010
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
“…growth and opportunity is testament to the 
modern communications strategies that each 
of our divisions pursued in advance of the credit
crunch, and the swiftness with which they are
responding to the challenges of the Re-set World.
