 6 Chime Communications plc
In these post-credit crunch days we seem to
have lost the habit of talking about the UK’s
competitive advantages. In the introduction to
this year’s Chime Annual Report and Accounts,
I’d like to buck the trend.
This is a very strong set of results, which builds on 
the similarly strong set of results that we delivered 
last year. Our public relations and sports marketing
divisions have delivered strong performances, with
strong organic growth in both revenue and profitability;
in advertising, strong growth in revenue has supported
major investment ensuring that we will remain at the
forefront of delivering truly integrated advertising
communications in the UK; new management has
transformed the performance of our research division
and allowed this to make a contribution again to
Group profits this year.
Our success has been rooted in the coming of age of
reputation management, now a bona-fide descriptor
for any discussion of marketing and communications,
but a term and an idea that we have been building 
our strategy around for far longer – since the start of
the Millennium, as regular readers of this Report will
be aware. Investing in expertise and integration now
allows us to manage reputations across platforms and
disciplines in a manner that few others can match. 
We are feeling the benefits in the UK, but also in other
markets: over 50% of Chime’s revenues now come
from overseas markets.
The headline events of 2010 have fed the global
demand for reputation management: BP put it on the
agenda of every major corporate, at every significant
meeting by demonstrating that the only alternative to
managing issues in advance, is to manage them in
crisis. Wikileaks detonated shockwaves across the 
US and around the world, although noticeably to a far
lesser extent in the UK.
Chief Executive’s Statement This difference is significant: the UK enjoys (or suffers,
depending on your viewpoint) the most tooth-
endowed and competitive media marketplace in the
world, boasting fully 11 national newspapers to the
USA’s zero, and with a tradition of free speech and
tolerance of tabloid media that is matched in few other
places. In this environment, the sudden loss of control
over government secrets and politicians’ reputations 
is certainly less shocking than elsewhere. In the UK,
companies and individuals were scrutinised in
uncomfortable detail long before the advent of the
internet age. As a result the public relations and
communications skills that we have developed are
able to adjust far more rapidly to the communications
challenges that the age of ultra-transparency presents.
Facebook has proven tailor-made to the UK’s media
habits; dealing with social media and its impact has
proven tailor-made for our communications skills.
This is far from the only area in which the UK enjoys 
a significant competitive advantage. In an increasingly
fragmented global media landscape, sports marketing
provides one of the few truly international broadcast
channels, with the Barclays Premiership alone
reaching just under half of the world’s population. 
We are in the fortunate position that Britain has
created eight of the world’s 10 most valuable sports.
We may no longer win at all of them; but our expertise
at utilising, commercialising and selling them is second
to none. Chime’s Sports Marketing Group (CSM) 
sold more cricketers to the Indian Premier League 
this season than any other agency. With globally
recognised expertise, the award of the Olympic
games to Brazil in 2016, or of the FIFA World Cup 
to Qatar, represents as much an opportunity as the
Olympics of 2012 in London.
The export of world-leading skills in the disciplines 
that the world has an increased appetite for, have
underpinned our growth this year. They are not
restricted to reputation management and sports –
VCCP has delivered revenue growth partly through 
the export of integrated communications to Europe,
for example – but these are the areas where our
competitive advantage is most apparent.
It takes strategic expertise and investment to take
advantage of these opportunities. The careful
investments that we have made in high-quality people
for our public relations, research, sports marketing and
advertising divisions have already borne considerable
fruit over the past year. We will continue to invest
appropriately in people and technology, to ensure 
that we represent our competitive advantages to the
greatest possible extent in the global marketplace.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
9 March 2011
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
