  
8  Chime Communications plc
Finding new ways to communicate is one of 
the	adaptations	most	r equir ed	of	or ganisations	
looking to deal with a rapidly changing world.
Adapting for continued growth
The ability to change, and to change quickly where 
necessary, is a great asset for any company. It has 
rarely been more valuable than during 2011. The 
robust performance of the Group over this past year 
is testament to our ability to help clients of all types 
adapt to a rapidly changing world.
Digital media continue to reshape the communications 
landscape and raise the stakes for organisations 
when it comes to reputation management. But 
these themes are now so familiar as to seem almost 
predictable when compared to other, more sudden 
shifts in economic, political and social norms: 
developed markets in a tailspin, political upheaval 
across the Middle East, the reappraisal of capitalism 
and demand for a new responsible approach to 
business that comes passionately from protestors, 
politicians and consumers. In such circumstances, the 
ability to adapt rapidly can bring swift and sustainable 
rewards; failure to do so can trigger a swift negative 
impact on the bottom line. 
Chime’s mix of activity reflects the growth of new 
channels – and the strength of our long-term 
specialisms. We have substantially accelerated the 
growth of our sports marketing business, CSM, 
increasing exposure to one of the great global 
communications opportunities in a fragmented 
media age. We first invested in sports marketing in 
2007, responding to increasing interest in sports 
sponsorship as a branding channel. Our sports 
marketing division has responded with continued 
growth across a range of services, with new business 
this year from Land Rover, Investec, GlaxoSmithKline, 
HSBC and LOCOG amongst others. In the UK, 
Marketing Magazine made Fast Track its Sponsorship 
Agency of the Year.
With the acquisition of the brand experience agency 
Icon and its integration into CSM, we now provide  
a full-service sports marketing offer, from consultancy 
and strategy through player representation to 
activation and communications, for both rights 
holders and sponsor brands. The further acquisition 
Chief	Executive’s	Statement
                            13 / 109  
of Brazil’s Golden Goal Sports Ventures has extended 
this offer to the setting for both the 2014 FIFA World 
Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games. Combined with 
our agencies’ existing presence in Qatar (host of the 
2022 FIFA World Cup), this gives the division a strong 
position at the centre of the global sporting agenda.
The growth of sports marketing has helped to offset 
challenges in other areas. For Bell Pottinger Group, 
the year saw the earlier than expected conclusion of 
a valuable but time-limited US government contract. 
However, with three of our largest agencies within 
the PR division posting strong growth, it is clear 
that demand for effective reputation management 
has been increased rather than dampened by the 
challenges facing business in the current environment. 
Advertising and Marketing Services operate in an 
environment shaped by the continuing economic 
downturn, but likewise this division has delivered 
strong growth during the year, outperforming its 
market to a significant degree. The increasing 
presence of VCCP in advertising saw it recognised 
alongside Fast Track as a Marketing Magazine 
Advertising Agency of the Year for 2011. In research, 
the area hardest hit by constraints on marketing 
budgets, we have stabilised our performance and 
delivered growth in revenues that, while modest in 
absolute terms, shows the competitive position that 
we occupy in the sector.
Nor is sports marketing the only area of opportunity 
to which we are increasing our exposure. From 
a standing start, we have created a significant 
contender in the European healthcare market through 
OPEN Health, our full-service network formed partly 
through the acquisition of LEC and the PR agency 
Reynolds Mackenzie. OPEN Health is ideally placed 
to take advantage of the sector’s move from recent 
challenges to renewed growth, triggered by an ageing 
population in the developed world and a burgeoning 
middle-class in the world’s growing regions. We have 
also continued to perform well in other specialised 
communication sectors with Teamspirit’s continued 
success in a more chaxllenging market for financial 
services agencies in 2011. 
Finding new ways to communicate is one of the 
adaptations most required of organisations looking 
to deal with a rapidly changing world. At the same 
time as stakeholders demand greater scrutiny of 
corporations, consumers also demand greater 
participation in their favourite brands. In sport, we are 
deeply involved in an increasingly popular channel 
for such participation; our advertising and marketing 
agencies have enviable reputations for orchestrating 
brand involvement; our PR agencies remain ideally 
positioned for helping clients meet the requirement 
for constant reputation management. Although many 
changes represent challenges, for the well-positioned 
business they inevitably create opportunity as well. 
The growth in revenue and profits delivered by the 
Group in such a challenging year attests to our long-
term strengths as well as our ability to adapt.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
7 March 2012
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  9
                            14 / 109
