 04  Chime Communications plc
The strength of Chime’s proposition is 
demonstrated by a strong performance from  
all five of our brand groups during the year.  
2012: A defining year 
2012 has been a defining year for Chime. It has seen 
the disposal of one part of our business and the rapid 
development of several others, building our position as an 
international communications and sports marketing group.  
It has seen us take full advantage of the potential revealed 
by the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games in London and 
it has introduced new leadership to the Group that will help 
to ensure these opportunities extend into the future.
Introducing new leadership
It gives us great pleasure to welcome Lord Mervyn Davies 
as the new Chairman of Chime. Lord Davies brings a rare 
combination of experience of both government and business 
to the role, and a respected reputation established through 
his work at Standard Chartered and his recent role as Minister 
of State for Trade Investment and Small Business. We are 
also delighted by the arrival of Lord Sebastian Coe as the 
Chairman of CSM Sport & Entertainment. His leadership 
will be invaluable in the global development of our sports 
marketing business and in unlocking the full potential of 
Chime’s international proposition. 
Strong growth from across the Group
The strength of Chime’s proposition is demonstrated by a 
strong performance from all five of our brand groups during 
the year . The Olympics and Paralympics helped to drive 
an excellent contribution from CSM Sport & Entertainment 
as well as generating strong future growth opportunities; 
Chime Insight & Engagement demonstrated the strength of 
its results-focused, highly responsive approach by delivering 
impressive growth in a challenging environment for market 
research; Open Health has built a position as a major player 
in the European healthcare communications market in its first 
full-year of operation; whilst the VCCP Partnership, including 
Teamspirit, has continued to increase revenues at the same 
time as investing in diversified income streams that will help 
to ensure continued growth in the future. The Good Relations 
Group has redefined our proposition in public relations 
following the departure of the Bell Pottinger companies, with 
a strategy built around the “Power of Good” for business.
Leveraging our Sports & Entertainment capabilities 
internationally
The London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games  
re-affirmed the world’s passion for sport and the UK’s  
expertise in building innovative partnerships around it. 
Chief Executive’s Statement  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012  05
In this context, the work of CSM Sport & Entertainment in 
London provided a powerful showcase that positions us 
to drive additional growth over the next decade. Chime 
agencies helped to define the experience of the Games for 
both audiences and brands, dressing every Olympic event 
and venue, activating events and hospitality for Olympic 
sponsors, and co-ordinating activity for the International 
Olympic Committee itself. For our branding and way-finding 
specialist agency ICON and event activation business 
iLUKA, work in London is already opening up powerful 
opportunities in Brazil and Russia, the settings for the major 
sporting events taking place between now and 2020.
London 2012 also provided the strongest example yet of 
sport’s power as a global marketing channel, a form of 
content that reaches consumers in every corner of the 
world and excites passion, excitement and loyalty that no 
other communications platform can match. The growing 
importance of sport to brands is shown by the premiums 
that top rights such as the English Premier League still 
command in the midst of a global recession, and by the fact 
that Brazil 2016 is on track to surpass London 2012 when 
it comes to commercial support and sponsorship. Such 
increased demand continues to enhance growth prospects 
across CSM businesses. 
Deeper connections through entertainment
Brands’ demand for content that can drive new levels of 
engagement will not be limited to sport, however . Music 
offers an alternative avenue for building highly emotional 
connections, often with young consumers who are resistant 
to conventional marketing approaches. CSM Sport & 
Entertainment is increasingly extending its sponsorship 
expertise to the music space with work for Lynx Deodorant 
and Beefeater Gin during 2012. Meanwhile, VCCP has 
built on its experience around the launch of the O2 arena, 
now the world’s premier music venue, with its launch of the 
experiential marketing arm, VCCP Live.
Digital channels
Imaginative use of digital and social media is helping to 
bolster leadership positions and create new opportunities 
to grow share across our businesses, and is typified by the 
Good Relations Group’s ground breaking partnership with 
Google and the industry-leading Digital Academy .
VCCP’s approach to advertising is perfectly suited to the 
social media age, focused on populating popular culture, 
with ideas for Compare the Market and Coors Light that 
significantly extend the potential of media budgets through 
“earned” exposure. The agency’s work for easyJet has 
further reinforced its reputation for effectiveness this year . 
Additionally a new facet has been added to its integrated 
offer with the development of real-time search bidding 
solutions that help clients to maintain the fame of their 
brands and campaigns in the digital space.
The rapid growth of Open Health is driven by a highly 
integrated approach built from the start around the new set 
of challenges facing pharmaceutical companies in bringing 
products to market. The launch of digital market research 
agency Watermelon Research has helped to drive growth  
for Chime Insight & Engagement, with innovative use of  
geo-location technology to serve location-specific surveys 
and real-time reporting dashboards that help to align the 
outputs of research ever more closely with clients’  
immediate needs.
The launch of Chime Ventures, which invests in promising 
ideas in marketing communications, will help to ensure a 
pipeline of such market-changing ideas within the Group. 
Chime Innovate, a board of employees under the age of 30, 
that is charged with developing new business propositions, 
ensures that we make full use of the ‘digital native’ human 
resource already at our disposal.
An international business
The international nature of both sports marketing and 
communications is central to Chime’s growth strategy . The 
global sports marketing calendar is driving the expansion of 
CSM Sport & Entertainment. Chime Insight & Engagement 
this year opened research capabilities in Sydney and VCCP 
has increased its footprint in Europe and Asia. We believe 
that such international expansion has a vital role to play in 
delivering sustainable future growth, and we will continue to 
pursue relevant opportunities as they arise. 
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
6 March 2013
The international nature of both sports 
marketing and communications is central to 
Chime’s growth strategy.
