 02  Chime Communications plc
It is a pleasure and a privilege to be joining 
Chime at such an exciting point in its 
development. As Chris Satterthwaite explains 
in his Chief Executive’s Statement, this has 
been a defining year of significant change, and 
one that positions the Group extremely well for 
growth in the future.
Chairman’s Statement
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to the outgoing 
Chairman Lord Bell for the leadership that has helped 
to guide Chime to this point. I have been immensely 
impressed by the strength of Chime’s executive team, 
their sense of common purpose and the backing that 
they receive from shareholders. I give Tim great credit for 
building such a strong on-going operation and wish him 
all the best in his future endeavours. As a result of Tim’s 
departure, we will be reshaping the Chime board, with 
new appointments during 2013.
Performance in 2012
The Group’s on-going operations delivered a very strong 
performance during 2012. The operational highlights 
being:
•	 Strong growth in Sport & Entertainment, Healthcare and 
Insight & Engagement
•	 Successful completion of Olympic and Paralympic 
contracts
•	 Sport & Entertainment operating profit increased by 105% 
•	 Substantial investment in new digital products in VCCP , 
CIE and Good Relations.
•	 Healthcare now established as the fifth division of 
Chime, operating profit increased to £2.3 million from 
£0.2 million
•	 Strong organic growth in Insight & Engagement 
division, operating profit up to £2.2 million from  
£0.7 million
•	 New offices opened in Madrid, Moscow, Singapore, 
Sochi and Sydney
•	 Acquisitions of iLUKA, McKenzie Clark, Harvey Walsh 
(51%), Succinct, Rough Hill (60%) and pH Associates
•	 Disposal of most of the Bell Pottinger business 
completed for £19.6 million
•	 Lord Coe appointed as Executive Chairman of CSM 
Sport & Entertainment  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012  03
The breadth of the Chime client list points to the 
considerable strength of the business – and as Chris 
and the divisional heads report in the Chief Executive’s 
Statement, our on-going businesses have continued to add 
to this breadth with new clients and new propositions in 
rapidly growing sectors.
Opportunity in sports marketing and entertainment
We will follow up on our deep involvement in the London 
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games to take a lead role in 
forthcoming major sports events worldwide, and help brands 
to leverage the uniquely global communications platform that 
sport increasingly represents. London 2012 demonstrated 
the importance of such major showpiece events in 
bringing disparate communities together and forging deep 
engagement with different audiences; it also proved the 
expertise of the UK when it comes to executing such events. 
For the UK’s leading sports marketing and communications 
group, a great opportunity lies in applying this expertise on 
an international scale. I am delighted by the recent arrival of 
Lord Sebastian Coe as Executive Chairman of CSM Sport 
& Entertainment and can think of nobody better to lead our 
efforts to exploit this opportunity .
Driving further integration
There are things that we can do better – and we will 
continue to evolve the Group during 2013 in order to do 
so. A key focus for me lies in continuing to drive greater 
integration across our different disciplines and divisions. 
Today’s communications challenges increasingly call for 
the application of a range of skills and a discipline-neutral 
approach to achieving solutions. We have met these 
challenges successfully by embedding a more integrated 
way of working within Chime brands such as the VCCP 
Partnership, Teamspirit, Open Health and the Good Relations 
Group. I believe that we can create yet more opportunity 
across our sectors by cross-fertilising ideas and solutions 
across these divisions.
Prospects for the business
Despite the continuing challenges of the global economic 
environment, the coming years hold great opportunity for 
Chime. We will continue to evolve our businesses to take full 
advantage of this opportunity . I commend this report and 
accounts to the shareholders as evidence of the progress 
that we are making on this journey .
Lord Davies
Chairman
6 March 2013
Today’s communications challenges 
increasingly call for the application of  
a range of skills and a discipline-neutral 
approach to achieving solutions. We  
have met these challenges successfully  
by embedding a more integrated way of  
working within Chime brands. 
