 This is my second annual report as Chairman 
of Chime. It comes after a year in which we 
made significant strides towards fulfilling 
our potential as an international, integrated 
marketing services group, and in which I 
personally have had the opportunity to get to 
know our business in much greater detail.
Over the last 15 months, I have been able to visit every one 
of the Chime companies worldwide. It has been a great 
experience and as I’ve toured our operations I have been 
hugely impressed by the skills, creativity and professionalism 
that I have encountered. This Group has extraordinarily 
talented people, a wonderful client base and excellent 
international reach. It provides a great foundation, and the 
developments that have taken place during the year leave 
us poised for what we believe is a very exciting period in our 
growth.
Revitalising the Group Board
2013 saw nothing short of a revitalisation of Chime’s 
Group Board, with the introduction of three Non-Executive 
Directors embedding the digital, brand and entrepreneurial 
experience that we believe is essential to helping this 
business achieve what it is capable of.
As Vice President of eBay Marketplaces for the UK & 
Greater Europe, Clare Gilmartin led its transformation from 
second-hand auction hub to leading retail site; Vin Murria, 
named Woman of the Year in the 2012 Cisco Everywoman 
Technology Awards, is CEO of Advanced Software Group 
plc, the AIM-listed business that she founded in 2008; Martin 
Glenn is a leading figure in the UK’s FMCG landscape, CEO 
of United Biscuits and previously CEO of Iglo Frozen Food 
and Company President for Pepsico in UK and Ireland. I 
would like to take this opportunity to welcome each of them 
to Chime and look forward to working with them closely as 
we move this Group forward.
Chairman’s Statement
04   Chime Communications plc Richard Alston and Catherine Biner Bradley both left the 
Board during 2013. Paul Richardson, a Non-Executive 
Director since 1997, also resigned from the Board in 
March 2014. We are grateful for the contributions that all 
three individuals made during their time as Directors.
Performance in 2013
Chime’s businesses performed well during 2013. The 
effects of the global sports cycle were felt in our sport 
marketing business, in the year following the 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games in London and before the 2014 
Winter Olympics, Commonwealth Games and FIFA World 
Cup in Brazil. However , there was strong growth across 
our marketing communications, healthcare and research 
divisions. Highlights from the year included:
•	 an excellent performance from the Chime Insight & 
Engagement Group, with strong growth in revenues and 
profitability that amounted to the most successful year in 
the division’s history’
•	 a strong new business performance from the Good 
Relations Group, which supported the continued 
development of our ‘Power of Good’ proposition; and
•	 twin ‘Agency of the Year’ performances from VCCP and 
Teamspirit that powered an increase in profitability of more 
than 50% for the VCCP Partnership.
Acquisition of JMI
Our acquisition of the US-based, global motorsports agency 
JMI represented another highly significant development 
for Chime. We have gained a complementary presence in 
sports with a huge global following and powerful influence 
within the US marketplace, and in Zak Brown we have 
acquired another valuable member of our already strong 
executive team. 
WPP shareholding
At the time of writing there remains uncertainty over WPP’s 
intention regarding its current shareholding in Chime. We will 
issue updates to the market and via the Chime website once 
more information becomes available.
Future prospects
Future prospects for Chime are strong. We remain one 
of the fastest-growing companies in our sector with 
healthily diverse income streams and a fascinating mix of 
clients across the world. We have strong governance, a 
top-quality board and a strong executive team, and as a 
Group we combine the ability to handle the needs of large 
multinationals and small entrepreneurial clients alike. The 
breadth of our offering makes us nimble. However , there 
is still opportunity to be exploited in leveraging our strong 
client relationships more widely across our businesses. Over 
the coming year , we expect to continue to develop in strong 
growth areas whilst taking greater advantage of these cross-
selling opportunities.
Lord Davies of Abersoch 
Chairman 
26 March 2014
Future prospects for Chime are strong. We 
remain one of the fastest-growing companies 
in our sector with healthily diverse income 
streams and a fascinating mix of clients 
across the world. 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   05
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
