 Building broader momentum
This was another exciting year for Chime and our 
increasingly global communications and sports marketing 
offer . We have taken further significant strides towards 
becoming a global leader in sports marketing, whilst every 
other division of our business delivered strong growth during 
the year .
Performance in 2013
Our topline results reflect the simple fact that 2013 is an 
odd-numbered year , and the world’s biggest sporting 
events take place on alternate even-numbered years. It was 
expected that the performance of our sports marketing 
division CSM Sport & Entertainment would dip between the 
London games and 2014, the year of the Winter Olympics in 
Sochi, the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and above all, 
the FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
Other than CSM Sport & Entertainment, each division 
delivered strong growth in profits during 2013, a Group-wide 
performance that demonstrates growing momentum across 
all of the sectors in which we operate.
Divisional overview
Our advertising and marketing services division, The VCCP 
Partnership, included two Agency-of-the-Year performances, 
with VCCP Group carrying off the coveted Agency of the 
Year award from Campaign magazine, and our specialist 
financial services agency, Teamspirit, similarly acclaimed by 
the Financial Services Forum. 
The awards recognised strong new business performance, 
but also consistently excellent creative output that shows 
how well the group is positioned to deliver the ‘content-led’ 
campaigns that clients increasingly demand. VCCP Content 
has been one of our most successful start-ups in Chime 
history, Teamspirit has delivered acclaimed campaigns 
for Aviva and Barclays and, VCCP’s commercially astute 
creativity continues to deliver impressive results for 
easyJet, comparethemarket.com and O2, with the O2 work 
recognised as Campaign magazine’s Campaign of the Year .
Elsewhere the re-focusing of Chime’s divisions during the 
last few years is delivering promising returns. In only its 
second full year of operation, Open Health has now grown 
to encompass more than 200 specialists in healthcare 
communications and market access. Its data-driven 
approach and focus on science-based communication fit the 
demand for greater accountability from healthcare spend 
and have generated strong growth that is evenly spread 
across the UK and Europe. Chime Insight & Engagement 
continues to grow, with the great success of its digital 
arm Watermelon playing a key role in delivering strong, 
sustainable performance. 
Meanwhile the Good Relations Group’s rejuvenated offer , 
helping brands to develop and communicate the social 
purpose that consumers increasingly demand, has delivered 
good growth built around clients such as Unilever , TalkTalk 
and Barclays. We welcomed Jackie Brock-Doyle as the 
Group’s new CEO, working alongside Kevin Murray as 
Chairman, and have strengthened our board with specialist 
expertise to lead the development of the business, as 
awareness of the active benefits of social responsibility 
enter the communications mainstream.
Chief Executive’s Statement
06   Chime Communications plc Strategic gains in sports marketing
During the year , CSM Sport & Entertainment completed two 
major acquisitions that represent significant advances for 
our global sports marketing offer . The arrival of JMI under 
its CEO Zak Brown gives us both a dominant position in 
motorsport and a firm foothold in the valuable US market. 
With its immense global and US audiences and its annual 
cycle, motorsport also adds an important element to the 
division’s business model: it helps to even out the variation 
in performance between odd and even years, and aligns us 
with a sport that touches every rapid growth market in the 
shape of F1. We are pleased to announce that in addition 
to continuing as CEO of JMI, Zak will now lead Chime’s 
global business development efforts as part of the team led 
by CSM Sport & Entertainment Executive Chairman, Lord 
Sebastian Coe.
Our acquisition of People Marketing in Shanghai brings 
another valuable addition to our global management team in 
the form of Irene Cheung, whilst providing a strong base for 
the growth of our sponsorship business in Asian markets.
Broadening our business in innovation
The breadth of good performances across Chime in 2013 
testifies to the broad, sustainable base that our business 
already enjoys. The acquisitions of JMI and People 
Marketing will help to broaden the growth opportunities 
for our flagship sports marketing division. However , our 
commitment to building broader momentum for our business 
does not end here. Chime has set an internal target that 10% 
of our annual profits should ideally come from businesses 
founded within the last three years. This commitment to 
continual innovation is one of the best guarantees of broad-
based, sustainable growth in the future. It has already 
delivered impressive launches such as VCCP Content, 
Watermelon and The EarthWorks, the new digital arm of 
Open Health. With the support of our start-up incubator , 
Chime Ventures, we expect to see similar success stories 
on an on-going basis. We are also committed to developing 
the next generation of business leaders within the Group 
through the activity of our youth board, Chime Innovate.
Expanding our global footprint
Alongside our commitment to business innovation, the 
expansion of our divisional offerings to relevant new markets 
remains a key theme of Chime’s strategy . We have made 
significant progress this year with the continued growth 
of Open Health, the good performances delivered by 
VCCP’s businesses in Spain and Australia, and above all, 
the successful expansion of CSM Sport & Entertainment to 
Brazil, China and the US. The increase in our international 
reach not only provides access to the country that will 
dominate the sporting calendar in 2014 and 2016, but 
to countries where the potential of sports marketing is 
enormous in any year . It is one of Chime’s KPIs that 50% 
of our profits should come from overseas businesses within 
the next three years, and we are firmly on course to achieve 
this target.
Leveraging opportunities across the Group
Taking full advantage of our broader global reach will 
require Chime companies to be alive to the opportunities 
that inevitably emerge. We are determined to capitalise on 
the opportunity to be more than the sum of our parts, and 
we have made working with clients through more than one 
company a key focus. There has been notable progress in 
this area, particularly from Open Health, which shares more 
clients within the division than any other part of our Group. 
We expect to make further progress in this area during the 
coming year .
Outlook for 2014
For the reasons outlined, our prospects for 2014 are very 
positive. The position that we have built in the Brazilian 
market positions us very well for the FIFA World Cup, the 
major sporting event of the year . Our agencies have already 
conducted significant work around the Winter Olympics 
in Sochi and will also be involved in the Commonwealth 
Games in Glasgow. Yet the reasons for optimism go 
beyond the natural rises and falls of the sporting cycle. 
CSM Sport & Entertainment’s strategic acquisitions have 
provided powerful opportunities for growth on an annual 
basis, and the continued strong performance of all Chime 
communication divisions puts the future of the group on a 
strong and sustainable footing.
Christopher Satterthwaite 
Chief Executive  
26 March 2014
During the year, CSM Sport & Entertainment 
completed two major acquisitions that 
represent significant advances for our global 
sports marketing offer.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   07
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
