 Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
I have great pleasure in announcing ZTC Plc’s first financial report as an AIM quoted company, following our successful
listing on 21 March 2007. The year to 30 June 2007 saw significant progress for the Company and its Chinese operations
(together the “Group”). The Group has continued to grow at an impressive pace and, following our admission to trading on
AIM, we have the balance sheet strength and status associated with a London Stock Exchange listing to improve on this
performance in 2008. The Group comprises ZTC Telecommunications Plc (“ZTC Plc”), Praise Ease Ltd (“Praise Ease”), its
100% owned Hong Kong based subsidiary, and Shenzhen Zhong Tian Communication Equipments Company Ltd (“Zhong
Tian”), its Shenzhen based operating subsidiary which is 100 per cent. owned by Praise Ease.
Praise Ease came to AIM via a reverse acquisition of Cassian Investments plc (“Cassian”). On 13 February 2007 Praise
Ease, was acquired by Cassian for an initial consideration of 70 million ordinary shares of 10p each (“Ordinary Shares”),
issued at 20p per Ordinary Share. On admission, the Company had 93,682,516 ordinary shares of 10p each in issue, and
approximately £4m in cash before expenses related to the listing.
The acquisition agreement also provided for the issue of up to 15 million Ordinary Shares by way of deferred consideration
to the previous shareholders of Praise Ease, subject to Zhong Tian achieving a post tax profit in excess of RMB 35 million
in the 12 month period to 30 June 2007. I am pleased to advise that the business has achieved the agreed level of
profitability for the period, and therefore it is anticipated that an additional 15 million Ordinary Shares will be issued to the
vendors prior to 31 December 2007. 
Acquisition accounting
The consolidated results for the Group incorporate the financial statements of ZTC Plc, Praise Ease and Zhong Tian for the
financial year ended 30 June 2007. Under IFRS, comparative figures for the year ended 30 June 2006 have also been
included which relate to Praise Ease and Zhong Tian. Due to the relative size of Praise Ease and Cassian, the acquisition
was required to be accounted for under the “Reverse Acquisition” method.
Results for 2007
The Group’s turnover increased 63% to £22.16m in the 12 month period to 30 June 2007 (2006: £13.57m). Profit before
taxation for the year ended 30 June 2007 increased 10.9% to £2.02m (2006: £1.82m), and is stated after charges for non-
recurring costs associated with the reverse acquisition and admission to AIM, which amounted to £280,000. Without these
one off costs, the Group has shown an increase in profit before taxation over the previous year of 26.2%.
Operations
The Group shipped 512,600 ZTC branded handsets during the reporting period, an increase of 111% over the previous
year. Overall, the year’s performance was very encouraging and is a credit to the hard work of the management and staff,
as well as proving the technical excellence of our innovative mobile handsets. The Board made a conscious decision during
the period to improve the Group’s infrastructure in order to meet demand for increased production. The result of this
implementation is an overall increase in running costs, but the necessary expansion of the infrastructure will position us well
for the future.
Strategy
ZTC’s handsets are aimed primarily at the estimated 800 million Chinese nationals who reside in the lesser developed north,
central and western regions of China. The Group’s strategy is focused on producing handsets that are “Fashionable,
Economical and Practical” and which are retailed at the lower to mid price range. The success of this strategy to date
means the Group can now look to expand its offering by focusing on the following areas:
● investing in the ZTC brand to increase consumer awareness; 
● continuing to invest in new handsets and the improvement of existing models; 
4 ● establishing additional and improved distribution and sales outlets. In particular the Group will focus on securing
agreements with the major service providers such as China Mobile, in its targeted areas which could result in more
rapid market penetration;
● doubling our production capacity in the medium term by adding a further four assembly lines to meet future sales
growth;
● exploiting the cost advantages that ZTC may obtain to develop overseas markets with similar characteristics to
China, such as Indonesia, India, and Africa. 
Recent Developments
In October 2007 at the highly regarded China Hi-Tech Fair in Shenzhen, the Group displayed its newest products and
launched its latest catalogues to both domestic and overseas industry targets, including phones with dual SIM cards, stock
market functions (such as share dealing and stock quotes), ultra-long standby batteries and dual multi-megapixel cameras. 
ZTC achieved both ‘Excellent Product’ and ‘Excellent Show’ awards at the China Hi-Tech Fair which were granted by the
China Hi-Tech Commission. These awards have provided encouragement to the Group in its strategy to help exploit
opportunities within the rapidly expanding Chinese and international telecommunications markets, as well as generating
significant interest in its products. 
Employees
The Board would like to extend their personal thanks to all employees of the Group in both the UK and China for their
enthusiasm, hard work and commitment. In particular, the Board would like to thank the Chief Executive Officer, Charles
Huang, for his continued excellent contribution to the development of the Group. 
Dividend
The Board will not be recommending the payment of a dividend this year. 
Outlook
Since the year end we have continued to successfully upgrade existing handsets and bring new models to the market,
bringing the total number of new handsets launched in the current financial year to five. The Group has upgraded its
financial reporting procedures and systems, and will maintain its rigorous approach to corporate governance practices as
it continues to grow. We are now seeing solid growth in our business which is trading in line with our expectations. Given
a combination of positive local market conditions and continued acceptance of recent product launches, the Board remains
optimistic for the trading year ahead.
With a clear strategy in place and a strong team to drive the business forward, the Board believes that we have the
ambition, commitment and technical ability to take ZTC to the next stage of its development. I look forward to reporting on
progress at the half year.
Frank Lewis
Chairman
28 November 2007
5
