 and distribution costs were reduced through the combined benefits of lower-cost
new products, greater outsourcing to lower-cost, high-quality suppliers in the Far East
and improved procurement and logistics.
Cash flow was generated at 168% of operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, as a result of actions taken to reduce working capital.
An important element of this was the establishment of a new logistics operation 
in Duisberg, Germany to channel our imported products through a single European
hub.The main benefit of this will come through in the current financial year with
reduced inventories and improved service levels to customers.
SALES Sales performance was characterised by a decline in product sales, partially
offset by an increase in higher-margin service revenue.
Overall, sales were down 4% as capital investment in our major markets was
deferred.We believe however that this represents an increase in market share,
particularly in our major markets of the UK and mainland Europe, given the recent
results of our major competitors who reported larger declines in sales.
In geographic terms, our sales were sustained at last year’s level in our main markets
of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA).We performed less well in Asia Pacific
where we suffered from changes in our distributor network, and in Latin America.
Product sales were down 8%, with significant falls in the telecom, technology 
and manufacturing sectors due to the lower level of investment in the telecoms
infrastructure and the depressed manufacturing sector in our main European markets.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 5
INTRODUCTION In the period under review, Chloride delivered a substantial
improvement in operating profit and strong operating cash flow despite the anticipated
difficult market conditions, which resulted in reduced sales and increased pressure 
on prices.
We managed the business to maximise opportunities in the challenging market
environment, while remaining confident of our longer-term prospects. Accordingly,
we continued to invest for the future of the business, through the development 
of new products, enhancement of our solutions capabilities and expansion of our
geographic spread.
We are convinced that the fundamental growth drivers of the business – our
customers’ absolute requirement to protect mission-critical equipment and the
uncertain power quality in many countries – will prove robust over the longer term.
IMPROVING PERFORMANCE Despite the economic conditions, we delivered 
a 40% increase in operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, through rigorous cost control, improved product margins and a better mix 
of higher-margin service revenues.This substantial growth in operating profit was
achieved after significantly increasing our investment in product development and
without reducing our sales resources. Each of our business streams – UPS Systems,
Industrial Systems, Power Conditioning and Telecom Systems – improved operating
profit compared to the prior year.
Importantly, product margins were increased against the background of severe
pricing pressure, by focusing on our solutions approach and concentrating our 
sales efforts on projects that added value for our customers. In addition, product 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
“Our solutions offering is supported by an international reach that
encompasses our core markets in western Europe and the USA as well 
as our growing presence in the Middle East and Far East. In all of these
markets we are building long-term partnerships with blue-chip customers.” SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
6 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
Against this background we focused sales resources on the more favourable markets.
This has enabled us to make progress in the transport sector, with projects
completed in several European and Far Eastern countries, such as the technically
complex solution for the Bangkok Mass Rapid Transport Authority; in government-
related projects, such as those for the Federal Labor Office in Germany and the
Police Authorities in the UK and Turkey; and in the retail, energy and construction
sectors where we achieved good sales growth over the prior year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Service sales have consistently increased in recent years, validating our strategy 
of developing our total solutions offering, with lifetime service and support for 
the customer.We are pleased to report a 13% increase in service sales, which 
now account for 26% of total revenues.The professional and reliable delivery 
of our service solutions yields a recurring revenue stream and generates sales
opportunities, as well as allowing us to predict our customers’ requirements 
and to be well placed when equipment upgrades are contemplated.
2000 2001 2003
+26.7%
1999
+61.1%
+12.8%
+13%
2002
INCREASE IN SERVICE REVENUE 
1 > Service 26%
2 > Manufacturing and 
construction 17%
3 > Telecom 15%
4 > Other 1 1%
5 > Government/
health 8%
6 > Retail 5%
7 > Financial services 5%
8 > Transport 5%
9 > Energy 4%
10 > Petrochemicals 4%
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1
SALES IN MARKET SECTORS Q4
2002
Q1 Q2 Q4
3,957
4,220
4,421
4,688
4,883
Q3
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 7
A vital part of our service offering is our industry-leading remote diagnostic
monitoring system – LIFE – which underpins our relationships with our 
customers, for whom 24-hour continuous power protection is an important 
element of risk management.
INCREASING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE In the year under review 
our strategy to improve competitive advantage successfully delivered an increase 
in market share and better margins, despite pricing pressure in our markets.
We continue to gain competitive advantage through:
Building long-term customer relationships We focus on understanding our
customers’ power protection requirements, developing tailored solutions specific 
to their applications and training their staff to utilise the full capabilities of their
equipment and software.
Our customer-facing staff are trained through our customer care programme
“Achieving Service Excellence” to understand customers’ expectations and
perceptions and how to improve the quality of service delivery.
This approach has been successful, making Chloride the supplier of choice for
important customers in sectors such as transportation where power protection 
is essential for critical safety systems and operational performance, and financial
services where power protection is vital for business continuity.
LIFE CONNECTIONS GREW STRONGLY
DURING THE YEAR SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
8 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
Delivering total solutions We develop and differentiate our solutions through:
–investing in product innovation to give us market-leading technology. During the
year, we made a significant investment in developing a range of UPS products 
for the US market, as well as other projects including modular UPS products 
for industrial systems; a 50-amp rectifier for telecom systems; and new 
patented telephone line protectors for our US power conditioning business;
– developing proprietary software to provide our customers with network
connectivity and to enhance our industry-leading remote monitoring and
diagnostic software – LIFE.We are now bringing to market the next generation
of LIFE, known as LIFE.net, which has additional benefits for the customer
including greater use of Internet and email communication;
– offering a combination of different technologies – AC UPS systems, DC systems,
power conditioning and industrial systems.We are increasingly focusing on
combining capabilities from our operations in Bologna, Lyon and Dol de Bretagne
to provide the fully integrated solutions that deliver through our sales and service
businesses a real competitive advantage when tendering for significant, complex
projects;
– developing our consultancy and project management capabilities;
– offering a range of service and remote monitoring options to secure the
optimum performance of our systems in critical applications;
– continually updating our know-how and capabilities to extend best practice
across all our operations.
Expanding geographic reach Late in the year, we announced the acquisition 
of a 75% interest in the Shanghai-based Siemens Telcom Power Supply Limited,
now renamed Chloride Masterguard Power Systems Limited.
This is a strategic purchase, giving us excellent facilities with which to expand our
business in China for telecom power systems, UPS and industrial systems.We have 
a major task to build on this capability and we anticipate the initial benefit of this
investment will start to come through next year. China is the fastest-growing
geographic market for power protection and we have a good-quality partner 
in Shanghai Mobile Communications Company, a subsidiary of China Mobile
Communications Corporation, together with ongoing supply arrangements 
with Siemens.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 9
POSITIONED FOR GROWTH Power protection is a long-term growth market
underpinned by the need for businesses and government organisations to have
uninterrupted quality power to support critical systems, against the background 
of deteriorating power quality and reliability in most economies.
We have a comprehensive total solutions offering that differentiates Chloride and
enables us to access a broad range of applications from small office LAN networks
to data and call centres, industrial plants, telecommunication infrastructure, energy
and petrochemical and major transport infrastructure projects.
Our solutions offering is supported by an international reach that encompasses 
our core markets in western Europe and the USA as well as our growing presence 
in the Middle East and Far East. In all of these markets we are building long-term
partnerships with blue-chip customers.
We have never been better placed to develop these relationships and we are
confident that by following our consistent strategy we will continue to capture
market share, build margins and generate cash.
KEITH HODGKINSON TELECOM LINE PROTECTORS
Providing uninterrupted voice and data communications is paramount in today’s converging
marketplace. Oneac, USA, has developed patented communication line protector technology 
which ensures trouble-free analogue, digital and high-speed data communications.
During the year, Oneac launched its new Convergent Series rackmount base and modular
communication line protectors.The Convergent Series features Oneac’s patented switched 
filter technology, to shield equipment from the damaging effects of lightning induced transients.
Telecommunications network operators using Oneac’s patented technology achieve a significant
improvement in system reliability and savings in service costs.
TELECOMS, GERMANY
Masterguard won a substantial contract 
to provide power protection for Vodafone
Information Systems, utilising UPS systems
with state-of-the-art Vector digital control
technology, nationwide service cover and
LIFE.net remote monitoring.
COPPER MINING IN CHILE
A Chloride solution ensures continuous
power for the smelting furnace at
Noranda’s new copper mining plant 
in Chile.This critical application is
protected by UPS systems incorporating
Vector control technology and network
monitoring software.
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
10 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Investment in research and development
continues to be a high priority. Development
projects during the year included a range of
UPS products for the US market, modular
UPS products for industrial systems and 
a 50-amp rectifier for telecom systems. LEADING TECHNOLOGY
>
>
PROTECTING RENEWABLE 
ENERGY SOURCES
The wind power generation industry has benefited from 
the increasing pressure on governments to encourage 
clean, sustainable energy production. Danish wind turbine
companies have played a leading role in the industry for
over 20 years and construct windfarms all over the 
world. Our customers use Chloride power protection
solutions to protect the in-built computers controlling 
their wind turbines,and to support the emergency
lighting systems,in Denmark and various 
other countries.
In the Danish wind turbine industry, our 
customers include VESTAS, NEG Micon 
and BONUS.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 11 BANGKOK MASS RAPID TRANSPORT SYSTEM
Bangkok’s new underground metro system, with 18 stations on the network, is due for official
opening in April 2004. Chloride has been chosen as the sole supplier of power protection solutions
for the signalling systems, revenue collection equipment and a number of operations buildings.
Chloride had clear competitive advantage with its breadth of product portfolio, covering the
requirement for both standard UPS systems and DC systems, its innovative solution for rail 
and underground applications, and its unrivalled service capability.
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
12 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
>
SECURE POWER FOR THE CUSTOMER
ASSESSMENT SOLUTION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT LIFE.net LIFETIME SERVICE SUPPORT
CONTACT
>
> >
>
>
Chloride’s total solution approach to delivering 
and maintaining optimum power protection requires
the highest standards throughout, from design and
implementation to life-long support. Chloride:
– designs the best solution to meet the customer’s
operational needs and budget;
–project manages the installation and
commissioning;
–provides life-long service and technical support,
with advanced LIFE.net remote monitoring 
and diagnostics. TOTAL SOLUTIONS
>
>
IMOLA MOTOR RACING CIRCUIT
Motor racing at the Imola track is dependent on reliable technology. Chloride’s power protection solutions
provide secure power to the starting light system, the first aid building and the monitoring centre which
controls essential timing and data recording equipment.The Chloride solution, tailored to the customer’s
requirements, includes 24-hour technical support during key events such as the San Marino Formula 1 
Grand Prix, Motor Cycling World Championship events and Formula 3000 races.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 13 AZERBAIJAN PIPELINE PROJECT
The energy sector is an important international market sector for Chloride Industrial Systems.
CIS won the contract to supply equipment, including UPS systems and battery chargers to 
support the Azerbaijan, Georgia,Turkey oil pipeline project, which will carry 80 million tons 
of oil a year from 2005. CIS equipment will be installed along the pipeline to protect 
computer systems, telecommunication systems, telemonitoring systems and security valves.
1
2
3
4
5
AGRICULTURE BANK OF CHINA
One of the four biggest state-owned 
banks in China has selected Chloride
power protection solutions to protect 
the IT infrastructure in 700 branches
across China.
MICROSOFT BRAZIL
Chloride Brazil supplied power protection
for the Microsoft Solution Center in 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, which provides training
and testing facilities for Brazil’s
technological community.
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
14 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
1 > Europe 69%
2 > USA 14%
3 > Asia Pacific 10%
4 > Middle East/Africa 5%
5 > Latin America 2% WIDE REACH
>
>
DEVELOPING MARKETS, CHINA
China now attracts the most foreign direct investments in Asia, with an increasing number of multinational
companies starting up manufacturing facilities, a growing IT and Internet sector and the world’s largest
mobile and second largest fixed-line telecom markets.This expansion will drive the demand for power
protection solutions and Chloride’s Shanghai-based acquisition, Chloride Masterguard Power Systems,
is well placed to exploit the market potential.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 15
