 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 3
INTRODUCTION Chloride made good progress over the year, despite the
challenging market environment which reduced demand for power protection
solutions in certain market sectors. Operating profit showed a healthy increase
against marginally lower sales as we improved margins through a continued focus 
on cost control combined with better efficiency and effectiveness throughout 
the business.
We maintained sales in our core European markets, grew service revenues strongly
and further improved our ability to generate cash.
We gained market share through focusing our sales resources on specific growth
sectors of the market and further enhancement of our total power protection
solutions offering.
Investment in the future growth of the business continued to be a priority. In
February 2003 we acquired a majority stake in Shanghai-based Siemens Telcom
Power Supply Limited, now renamed Chloride Masterguard Power Systems Limited,
giving Chloride a strategic presence in the dynamic Chinese market.We also
increased our investment in new product development, building on our strong
technology platforms to provide high specification products at lower cost.
FINANCIAL Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional 
items recovered by 40% to £7.1 million (2002: £5.0 million) on total sales of 
£143.0 million (2002: £148.3 million). Margins improved across all our operations 
as a result of the vigorous control of overhead costs and supply chain management,
and a more favourable mix of higher-margin service revenues.
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was up 41% 
to £6.34 million (2002: £4.48 million) delivering a 40% increase in adjusted EPS 
to 1.98p (2002: 1.41p).This was achieved after absorbing in excess of £1 million 
of increased product development, pension and insurance costs.
Cash flow from operating activities was 168% of operating profit before goodwill
amortisation reflecting the Group’s ability to generate strong cash flow from 
its operations.Year-end net debt was £8.8 million (2002: £8.1 million) with gearing 
on shareholders’ funds at 13.0% (2002: 12.1%), after the investment associated 
with our strategic acquisition in China.
DIVIDEND The Board is confident that the long-term outlook for the market 
is positive, given the underlying growth drivers for power protection solutions, and
that our approach will deliver consistently improving results. Against this background,
the Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 0.8p (2002: 0.8p).
Together with the interim dividend of 0.8p (2002: 0.8p), this gives an unchanged 
full year dividend of 1.6p (2002: 1.6p).The Board believes this strikes the right
balance between rewarding shareholders for performance during the year,
reflecting future prospects and re-building dividend cover.
The final dividend will be paid on 29 July 2003 to shareholders on the register 
at 4 July 2003.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
“We are confident that Chloride has never been better placed to exploit
opportunities from the long-term growth in the power protection market.
We will continue to focus our marketing activities on the higher-growth
sectors within our market and on extending our total solutions strategy 
to gain competitive advantage.” SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS >
4 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2003
LONG-TERM CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS An essential part of our strategy
to increase competitive advantage remains consistent – to build long-term partnerships
with blue-chip customers in our chosen markets by providing the industry-leading
power protection solutions they require to ensure their business continuity.This
approach has put Chloride in a good position to win market share and increase
margins despite the current market downturn.We are confident that the Company
has never been better placed to exploit opportunities from the long-term growth 
in the power protection market.We will continue to focus our marketing activities
on the higher-growth sectors within our market and on extending our total solutions
strategy to further competitive advantage.
PEOPLE Once again, the Board is grateful for the commitment shown by our
employees in driving forward the business. In the UK, we operate a hybrid defined
benefit/defined contribution pension scheme which, like many similar schemes 
and after several years of surplus, has been adversely impacted by the downturn 
in the stock market. Our defined benefit section is small, having been closed to new
members in 1998.The Board has demonstrated its commitment to the Scheme by
agreeing a substantial one-off Company contribution of £1.5 million and increasing
the Company’s regular contributions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board supports the adoption of best
practice guidelines in corporate governance and this year is able to confirm that 
the Company complies fully with the Combined Code in its current form.The Board 
has considered carefully the recommendations and guidance of the Higgs and Smith
Reports on Corporate Governance and Audit Committees.We have decided to
await the final, revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance and evaluate
emerging best practice before implementing changes to corporate governance
procedures within the Company.
OUTLOOK The immediate trading environment remains challenging and we do 
not expect any recovery in the short term. Nevertheless, we believe we are well
positioned to improve performance as we enter the new financial year.Whilst we
are cautious about the outlook for the current year, our sharpened focus, improved
competitiveness and leading range of power protection solutions should enable us 
to make further progress.
NORMAN BROADHURST
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
