 MARKET DYNAMICS The power protection market has experienced
significant challenges in the past three years as a result of the sharp decline 
in capital investment across many sectors, particularly in telecoms, information
technology and industry. Nevertheless, the key market drivers remain in place.
Following the damaging power cuts that occurred in North America, the UK,
Italy and Scandinavia in 2003, there is growing awareness that degrading 
power quality is a serious risk both to business continuity and to critical 
public infrastructure.We note that during the London power cut, our power
protection installations provided uninterrupted power for the emergency 
lighting systems on London Underground, helping the safe evacuation of
thousands of passengers.
Market research carried out by Frost & Sullivan indicates that following 
two years of declining revenues, the worldwide market for UPS is now 
regaining momentum, and is projected to grow at a CAGR of c.6% between
2004 and 2010. It is anticipated that factors such as an upswing in capital
investment as economies improve, opportunities in emerging markets and
increased awareness of degrading power quality as a threat to business
continuity will drive this growth. Chloride’s approach of focusing our sales
resources on the key growth sectors such as transport, healthcare, leisure,
and oil and gas; developing our higher-margin service business; continuing 
to control costs and improve efficiencies; and maintaining a strong balance 
sheet and positive cash flow, will enhance financial performance in an 
improving trading environment.
“The world UPS market is forecast to grow… as a result of an increased awareness
regarding power abnormalities, increased digitalisation of processes, and lack of
sufficient and reliable power availability.”
(Frost & Sullivan World UPS Market Report 2004)
PERFORMANCE Chloride has delivered improved performance despite 
the pressures of a highly competitive market. Sales were increased by 7% 
and operating profit was up by 19% after absorbing the additional costs 
of our investment in China.The underlying operating profit before goodwill
amortisation excluding China was increased by 31%.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
WORLD UPS MARKET FORECAST
CAGR (2004–2010): c.6%
Source: Frost & Sullivan World UPS Market Report 2004.
03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10
+4.2%
+4.6%
+5.9%
+6.0%
+6.4%
+6.4%
+6.4% The growth in operating profit was achieved from increased sales volume,
improved product margins, and rigorous control of costs.The improvement 
in the product contribution margin was a significant achievement against the
background of severe pressure on prices. Overall the contribution margin 
also benefited from the continued growth in higher-margin service revenues.
Improved performance was achieved in all business streams, with both sales
revenue and operating profit ahead of last year in Uninterruptible Power
Supplies, Industrial Systems, Power Conditioning and Telecoms Systems.
A major strength of Chloride is its ability to convert profits into cash.
Operating cash flow before the special contribution to the UK pension fund 
was again strong, with cash conversion at 141% of operating profit before
goodwill amortisation (2003: 168%).
SALES The return to sales growth was achieved in difficult market conditions,
by focusing our resources on those territories and market sectors which
provided the most favourable opportunities.The success of this approach 
was recognised by Frost & Sullivan in their 2004 award to Chloride for 
“Market Leadership in the European Medium to Large UPS Market”.
In geographic terms we achieved above-market growth of 7% in our major
market of EMEA and 24% growth in Asia Pacific. Our sales in the Americas 
were flat.
Product sales were up by 6% with good growth in infrastructure projects and
the financial services, petrochemical and medical sectors. Sales in the telecoms
sector started to recover as the main telecoms operators started to increase
investment in their networks. Manufacturing continued to be a difficult sector,
mainly in Europe where the depressed economic conditions adversely affected
capital investment.
Important contracts implemented during the year included the Network Rail
and Cross Channel Link rail infrastructure projects; Bank of Bilbao, Spain, and
Agriculture Bank, China, in financial services; the Sakhalin Island gas production
facility in Russia; hospital projects in the UK and the Middle East; and a large 
data centre for Vodafone in Germany.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 7
SALES IN MARKET SECTORS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1 Service 27%
2Telecom 17%
3 Manufacturing and
construction 13%
4Government/health 11%
5 Other 9%
6 Energy and
petrochemicals 9%
7 Financial services 5%
8Transport 5%
9Retail 4% Service sales continued to grow strongly with sales growth in the year of 11%.
This underlines the importance of after-sales support to our Total Solutions
approach, which is becoming a key criterion in the selection of power
protection suppliers by blue-chip customers.The increase in service sales was
underpinned by improvements to our offering, including further development 
of our LIFE remote monitoring and diagnostic system, a new range of flexible
support services to match customer requirements, and the implementation 
of a power quality audit capability.
LEADING SOLUTIONS Excellent customer service is at the core of our
Total Solutions approach and allows us to respond swiftly to our customers’
needs. Our industry-leading remote monitoring and diagnostic system is an
important component of our Total Solutions approach. An updated, web-
enabled version was launched during the year under the LIFE.net brand.
This enhanced system enables any potential problems with a customer’s 
power supply or applications to be identified and dealt with by Chloride 
service specialists through a greater use of internet and e-mail 
communication.The success of this enhanced system is reflected 
in an increase in LIFE connections of 16% on an annual basis.
Chloride is at the forefront of innovation in the power quality industry.
During the year we invested in product development to bring new products
based on industry-leading technology to market.These include:
● high power 90-Net and mid range 70-Net UPS systems, with the benefit
of vector digital control technology;
● 50 amp rectifiers for telecoms systems;
● line interactive power conditioned UPS systems, uniquely suited to
telecoms applications, as the telecoms operators develop new services
such as VoIP;
● updated connectivity software for parallel UPS systems; and
● the new Apodys range of modular industrial systems products.
8 ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS 
INCREASE IN LIFE  
CONNECTIONS
2001 2002 2003
3,280
3,957
4,883
2004
5,681
INCREASE IN SERVICE REVENUE
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
+26.7%
+61.1%
+12.8%
+13%
+11% Chloride Industrial Systems launched the Apodys product range at the end of
the first half of the year, and the first systems are now in operation, providing a
compact, robust and technically advanced solution for use in even the harshest
environments.This innovative development expands our proprietary Vector
digital control technology into industrial systems, to provide modular, cost-
efficient products with flexible configuration, smaller footprint and enhanced
performance.We are pleased that the Apodys solution has been chosen 
by EnCana (UK) Ltd, the operator of the North Sea Buzzard field, to support
safety and process-critical loads at the main wellhead platform.
All these product and service developments give us confidence that we have
again improved our Total Solutions offering and are well positioned to grow 
sales further during the coming year.
WIDE REACH We continue to invest in developing the capabilities of our
Shanghai-based telecom power systems company, Chloride Masterguard Power
Systems (CMPS).This business, like many others in the region, was severely
affected by the “SARS effect”, which was more prolonged than the epidemic
itself. During the year we have focused on the introduction of a competitive
range of telecoms power systems and UPS products that will put us in a better
position as the market recovers.We are confident that CMPS will provide an
effective platform from which to expand our business in China for telecom
power systems, UPS and industrial systems.
During the year we have also developed relationships with a number of
important partners in Middle Eastern states including Jordan and Kuwait,
to enable us to benefit from increased commercial activity in the region.
We have had considerable success in developing our UPS business in Russia 
and Eastern Europe and anticipate further opportunities with the accession 
of the East European states to the European Union.
Our distribution hub in Duisberg, Germany has resulted in increased efficiency 
in our international logistics network.We are now starting up a similar logistics
hub in Madrid which will improve inventory and logistics management in the
Iberian Peninsula.
PROSPECTS Our Total Solutions approach covering a broad range of
applications, strong blue-chip client base, wide international reach and
commitment to delivering excellence and innovation to our customers 
underpin our continuing ability to capture market share, build margins,
increase profit and generate cash.
We enter the new financial year with greater confidence as economic conditions
start to improve and with evidence of increased spending in the telecoms,
information technology and petrochemical sectors. Although we expect to see
only a gradual recovery in the short term, we firmly believe our Total Solutions
approach will provide the platform to drive growth in sales and operating profit,
and deliver further value to our shareholders.
KEITH HODGKINSON
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 9
SALES IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
EMEA 73%
Americas 15%
Asia Pacific 12% SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
LEADING TECHNOLOGY
BUZZARD PROJECT, UK
The Buzzard field is operated by EnCana (UK) Ltd and will be developed using three
bridge linked platforms.This is one of the largest fields to be developed offshore in
the North Sea in over ten years.
Chloride Power Protection has been awarded the contract to supply a dual redundant
UPS and battery-monitoring system to support safety and process-critical loads at 
the main wellhead platform.The Excor Apodys range of UPS has been selected for
this duty.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 COMP USA, NORTH AMERICA
For CompUSA, a major retailer of consumer electronics products, the efficient flow of
information from its 230 stores across the USA is essential to maintaining profitability.
When CompUSA undertook a major technology upgrade to its LAN/WAN, replaced
its PBX systems with VoIP systems and added Wi-Fi in each of its stores, it chose
Oneac power conditioned UPS systems to ensure clean, uninterrupted power to 
these mission-critical systems.
WEMBLEY STADIUM, UK
The new 90,000 seater Wembley Stadium will be the most spectacular football
stadium in the world, built to the highest specifications and using the latest technology.
Electrical contractor for the project Phoenix Electrical has awarded Chloride UK 
the contract to supply a robust network of UPS systems across all four stands.
The UPS will provide 4.3MVA of backup across the entire stadium for mission-
critical equipment such as emergency lighting, exit signs and PA systems.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 11 SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
TOTAL SOLUTIONS
NEW CROSS HEART HOSPITAL, UK
This year Chloride completed an innovative power protection solution for the state
of the art Cardiac Services Centre at New Cross. Chloride’s design and consultancy
skills resulted in an advanced UPS solution, providing lifetime cost savings for the end
user, while Chloride’s LIFE.net remote monitoring and field support capability gives
unrivalled security for this critical application.
Following its success at New Cross, Chloride has also been awarded a contract 
to supply power protection for the prestigious development at University College
Hospital, London.
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DUBLIN LIGHT RAIL TRANSIT, EIRE
Chloride has been chosen as the preferred power protection supplier to the Dublin
Light Rail Transit project – a modern, rail based urban transport system, due to be
inaugurated in summer 2004.
The Chloride solution meets stringent safety and environmental requirements and
provides protection for signalling, and auxiliary equipment for communication and
control, as well as safety barriers.
UNICREDIT BANK, ITALY
Unicredit Bank is the largest bank in Italy, with over 2,800 branches. Building on 
its position as a long term supplier to this blue-chip customer, Chloride has won 
a three-year contract to provide service and maintenance for the bank’s entire
installed base of over 1,000 UPS units.
This contract demonstrates the strength of Chloride’s solutions offering and its ability
to develop long term customer relationships in the financial sector, where continuous
power is an essential business requirement.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 13 SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS
WIDE REACH
TEATRO LA FENICE,VENICE, ITALY
The restoration of the Fenice Opera House following the devastating fire of 1996 
has taken years of painstaking work, resulting in a magnificent reconstruction of the
original 18th century building.
Despite its historical appearance, the new building is supported by the latest
technology, including power protection provided by Chloride Italy, to safeguard 
the building’s electrical and safety systems.
14 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 © Michele Crosera, Fondazione Teatro La Fenice UNISYS DATA CENTRE,AUSTRALIA
In 2004 Chloride completed its latest power protection project for Unisys – this 
time for the new Unisys data centre in Sydney,Australia. Chloride was selected on the
basis of its proven ability to deliver an advanced technical solution, based around the
latest 90-Net technology, together with its systems design and project management
capabilities. Backed up by 24 hour monitoring through LIFE.net, and local service
support, this project demonstrates the success of Chloride’s state of the art power
protection solutions in delivering reliable, high quality power to mission critical
applications.
SINGAPORE EXPRESSWAY
When completed, the 12km Kallang/Paya Lebar dual carriage expressway will 
have 75% of its length constructed below ground.This presented the Singaporean
Land Transport Authority with extensive safety requirements, including ventilation,
traffic management, fire protection, lighting and communication systems. Beating 
tough competition, Chloride was selected to provide the power protection system,
comprising 60 UPS units, to protect the mission critical safety systems.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 15
