 OVERVIEW This has been a year of good progress for Chloride. I am pleased
to announce that despite a difficult trading environment the Group continues 
to outperform the overall market, and has achieved sales growth of 7% for 
the year.We also achieved a 19% increase in operating profit before goodwill
amortisation, driven by margin improvements across the business as we
continued to reduce costs, grow higher-margin service revenues and improve
efficiencies in product manufacturing and distribution.
This performance demonstrates that Chloride is well positioned to achieve
further sales and profit growth through focused management and targeted
investment, in markets which are now expected to improve.
INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE In the last three years, we have responded 
to the market downturn by reducing our cost structure, aligning our resources
with more profitable market sectors and developing our Total Solutions approach
to meet our customers’ needs. At the same time, we have continued to invest 
for the future of the business through product development and strengthening 
of our management information systems, as well as developing partnerships in
the growing Eastern Europe and Middle East markets, and investing for long-
term growth in China.These actions are delivering results.
Power protection remains an attractive worldwide market and we are well
placed to compete for business in our chosen markets. In Europe, we received
from Frost & Sullivan, the principal market research company in the power 
protection industry, their 2004 award for “Leadership in the European Medium
to Large UPS Market”.The award cited our ability to address those sectors with
growth potential against a background of market decline following the downturn
in telecoms-related business.
FINANCIAL Total sales for the year increased by 7% to £153.2 million (2003:
£143.0 million). Operating profit before goodwill amortisation was up 19% to
£8.4 million (2003: £7.1 million) after absorbing revenue investment costs of
£0.8 million in China. Margins once again improved across all our operations,
reflecting the Group’s continued focus on driving cost savings and improving
efficiencies, as well as continued growth of higher-margin service revenues.
Profit before tax and goodwill amortisation increased by 19% to £7.6 million
(2003: £6.3 million), generating adjusted earnings per share of 2.37p – an increase
of 20%.
Reported profit before tax was £4.9 million (2003: £3.7 million) and basic 
EPS was 1.26p (2003: 0.88p).
Operating cash flow continued to be strong, at £11.8 million (2003:
£11.9 million) before a special contribution of £1.5 million (2003: £nil) to the 
UK pension fund. After considerable capital investment across the business 
the net debt at the end of the year was £14.4 million (2003: £8.8 million) 
with gearing on shareholders’ funds at 28% (2003: 16% restated).
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION SOLUTIONS DIVIDEND The Board recommends a final dividend of 0.85p per share 
(2003: 0.8p).This increased dividend reflects the Board’s growing confidence 
in the prospects for the market and our ability to deliver further improvements 
in performance.Together with the interim dividend of 0.8p (2003: 0.8p),
this gives a full-year dividend of 1.65p (2003: 1.6p), an increase of 3.1% on 
the prior year.
The final dividend will be paid on 27 July 2004 to shareholders on the register
at 2 July 2004.
PEOPLE On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees for
their hard work and commitment over the past year. At this year’s AGM we 
will be proposing a resolution to adopt a new Performance Share Plan. Awards
under this plan will further align the interests of the management with those 
of shareholders, while at the same time recognising the latest ABI guidelines 
on share incentive schemes. Details of the Performance Share Plan are set out 
in the circular to shareholders accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
OUTLOOK The last three years have been challenging for Chloride as 
the market suffered a sharp decline, followed by continuing low levels 
of capital investment, notably in the telecoms, information technology and
commercial sectors. However, our confidence in the underlying growth drivers
for power protection solutions – our customers’ absolute requirement to
protect mission-critical applications against a backdrop of degrading power
quality – remains strong, and there are now early signs that the market is
beginning to recover. Our actions in realigning the business to respond to 
the changing environment have left us well placed to leverage any upturn 
in the market.
We will maintain our focus on market sectors where we are well positioned,
continue to invest in industry-leading technology and customer service, and
remain committed to driving further operating efficiencies as we deliver 
value to our customers and shareholders worldwide.
NORMAN BROADHURST
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 5
