 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
POWER PROTECTION
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Introduction
Chloride has made excellent progress delivering sustained growth in sales,
profit, and dividends.The Company has continued to outperform the market
with particularly strong growth in Europe and in the retail, medical, energy,
petrochemical, and manufacturing sectors.
Strategy for growth
Our strategy is to focus on the market for power protection solutions and
build market share in sectors where we enjoy real competitive advantage.
During the year we have:
l enhanced our position in the European power protection solutions
market with the acquisition of Harath Engineering Services Limited
(“Harath”).This acquisition, which was completed after the year end,
strengthens our position as the UK’s No 1 specialist provider of power
protection solutions and services for critical applications;
l improved efficiency through increased outsourcing and restructuring,
mainly relating to our manufacturing operations in Germany;
l agreed to invest in a leading Indian power protection company,
DB Power, to give us access to the growing Indian market; and
l sharpened focus on our core business by exiting from the Telecom
Power Supplies (“TPS”) business segment in China and seeking a buyer
for TPS France, which we have restructured for a return to profitability.
These actions will build on our recognised strengths in our core market,
deliver cost savings and expand both our solutions offering and our
geographic footprint.
Key financials
Total sales for the year increased by 8% to £165.0 million (2004:
£153.2 million). Operating profit was £4.9 million (2004: £5.7 million).
Operating profit before exceptional items of £3.5 million and goodwill
amortisation of £2.5 million was up 29% to £10.9 million (2004: £8.4 million).
Excluding the non-core TPS businesses, which made a loss of £0.9 million,
operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was
£11.7 million – an increase of 27% on the prior year, on sales up 7% at
£151.7 million.
Chloride’s exit from TPS in China and its restructuring plans, largely in
Germany and the continuing TPS France business, have resulted in a one-off
exceptional pre-tax cost for this year of approximately £4.9 million (£2.9
million net of release of disposal provisions no longer required). In addition,
£0.8 million of goodwill was written off as an exceptional item associated
with TPS China, giving a total pre-tax net exceptional charge for the year 
of £3.7 million.The cash cost, to be incurred mostly in the current year,
is approximately £3.0 million.The benefit from these actions, which will
eliminate losses in TPS and deliver pre-tax savings across the business,
will be approximately £3 million on an annualised basis.
NORMAN
BROADHURST ANNUAL REPORT 2005 5
Profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased 
by 29% to £9.8 million (2004: £7.6 million), generating adjusted earnings
per share of 3.16p – an increase of 33%. Reported profit before tax was
£3.5 million (2004: £4.9 million) and basic EPS was 0.70p (2004: 1.26p).
Operating cash flow continued to be strong at £10.9 million (2004:
£10.3 million) representing over 100% of adjusted operating profit.
After investing £6.2 million (2004: £8.4 million) in capital expenditure 
in the business, the net debt position at the year end was £16.3 million
(2004: £14.4 million).
Dividend
Following another year of good progress, and given our confidence in the
Company’s future prospects, the Board is proposing an 18% rise in the final
dividend to 1.0p per share (2004: 0.85p).Together with the interim dividend
of 0.85p, this gives a full year dividend of 1.85p – an increase of 12% on the
prior year.
Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final
dividend will be paid on 26 July 2005 to shareholders on the register 
at 1 July 2005.
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
Preparations continue for the introduction of the IFRS that will first impact
the Group’s interim statement for the six months to 30 September 2005.
The main areas of pre-tax adjusted earnings impact (before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation), as disclosed previously, are in the recognition
of pension costs, and the cost of share-based payments.The overall impact 
is currently estimated to reduce reported pre-tax adjusted earnings by
between 5% and 7%.The Company has a transition plan in place to manage
the conversion to IFRS and intends to advise shareholders more fully of 
the changes in advance of the interim statement.
Board of directors
John Wheeler has decided to step down as a director at the forthcoming
AGM, to concentrate on his overseas interests. I would like to thank John
for his contribution to the Board.The Nomination Committee has begun
the selection process for another independent non-executive director.
Prospects
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues at Chloride
for their efforts this year.They have met the challenges created by our
determination to accelerate growth with commitment and enthusiasm.
T ogether we have achieved another good performance.
We have seen improving trends in many of our core markets.This more
positive environment, together with Chloride’s sharpened focus on its 
core power protection businesses, its commitment to investing in industry-
leading technology and customer service, and above all its talented and highly
experienced people, give me confidence for the future. I am very encouraged
that we enter the new financial year with a lower cost base, an improved
order book and a clear vision for the Company’s continuing development.
NORMAN BROADHURST
