 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
POWER PROTECTION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Our approach to the market
Business continuity is our business. It is also a priority for businesses,
governments and other infrastructure organisations around the world.
The demand for higher levels of power quality to protect critical systems
and processes from power failure continues to drive growth in the 
power protection market.
We have evidence of improving trends in our key markets, driven by this
requirement to ensure power quality. Our customers’ need for power
protection is supported by data from our LIFE.net remote monitoring
system. In the last six months of the year, 1,864 UPS systems monitored by
LIFE.net in the UK recorded over 50,000 mains failures capable of affecting
critical equipment and IT systems, and causing loss of data. Management
of this risk is a necessity for customers whose business transactions and 
processes demand constant, high quality power, and we are convinced that 
this will continue to drive long term growth in the market.
Chloride has consistently grown ahead of the market, particularly in Europe,
in a highly competitive environment.We believe that our approach of offering
total solutions and lifetime support is a sustainable advantage which differentiates
Chloride from the competition and underpins this outperformance.
Another strength of Chloride’s approach is its ability to move quickly 
to respond to new opportunities. Our success in the retail, energy,
petrochemical and medical sectors this year reflects this flexibility.
Flexibility is also a key strength in serving our customers. In January 2005,
our innovative approach to supply chain management, driven by our goal 
of constant improvement in customer service, led to Chloride receiving 
a Cap Gemini European Supply Chain Excellence Award, coming second
only to Dell in the High Tech and Electronics category.
KEITH
HODGKINSON
CHLORIDE SALES GROWTH 
AGAINST MARKET GROWTH
 CHLORIDE  MARKET*
2004
+4.2%
2005
+8%
+7%
+4.6%
*Source: Frost & Sullivan World UPS Market Report 2004 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 7
Strategic developments
During the year the Board undertook a review of the business in order 
to refine the strategy for future growth, which resulted in a series of 
agreed actions to:
l Build market share in core sectors of the power protection
market, where our T otal Solutions approach has significant
competitive advantage
Harath, UK Following the year end, to enhance our leading position 
in the European power protection solutions market, we acquired Harath
Engineering Services Limited. Harath is a service business specialising in 
the maintenance of standby generators, UPS systems and other critical
power protection equipment.This acquisition significantly enhances our
service offering by combining the world class capabilities of Chloride 
and Harath, and consolidates our position as the UK’s No 1 specialist
provider of critical power protection solutions and services. Benefits include
opportunities to extend Chloride’s UK coverage through Harath’s branch
network, drive sales of Chloride UPS systems through Harath’s customer
base and strengthen relationships with shared blue chip customers.
The response to date from customers, including some of the leading UK
facilities management businesses, to Chloride’s broader spread of products
and services has been very positive.
With its enhanced range of critical power protection services, Chloride 
is now even better placed to extend its service offering to support 
a broader installed base. During the course of the coming year, we intend 
to combine Harath with our existing UK service business to present 
a cohesive and comprehensive range of services to our customers.
Synergistic cost savings are also likely, which at this stage are too 
early to quantify.
DB Power It was also decided to review opportunities in India, where
many of Chloride’s international customers are already present. Since the
year end, Chloride has entered into an agreement to form a strategic
alliance with DB Power, one of India’s leading independent power
protection companies. DB Power has an excellent reputation as a high
quality supplier to the Indian market, and in 2004 received awards from 
the leading international market research company, Frost & Sullivan, for 
the “most preferred Indian brand of UPS” and “product line leadership 
in the manufacturing segment”. It has an extensive sales and service 
network, which will provide support for international customers introduced
by Chloride.
This alliance, under which Chloride will take a minority stake in DB Power,
will form a platform for growth in this fast developing market for power
protection solutions.
Left: Darren Gibbons, Managing
Director, Harath 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
POWER PROTECTION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
l Improve operating efficiencies in the core power 
protection business
The further outsourcing of manufacturing created opportunities to realise
additional cost savings, mainly by closing excess manufacturing capacity 
in Germany.This closure is currently underway and is progressing to 
budget and timetable.
l Sharpen focus by exiting non-core business sectors 
The strategic review concluded that the Telecom Power Supply (“TPS”)
market was becoming increasingly commoditised, with minimal opportunity
to grow service revenues, and that Chloride lacked critical mass to
compete against the international high volume suppliers.Therefore the
Board decided to exit from the TPS business segment in China and France.
Following closure of TPS in China, which made an operating loss before
goodwill amortisation of £0.7 million in the year ended 31 March 2005,
Chloride will retain a presence in China to address the power protection
market, which remains an opportunity for long term growth.
We are in the process of finding a buyer for TPS France, which recorded
sales of £11.3 million and an operating loss before goodwill amortisation 
of £0.2 million in the year. In the meantime, we have positioned the
business for a return to profitability.
Performance and sales
Market research carried out in 2004 predicted that the worldwide market
for uninterruptible power supply systems would grow at c4.6%* for the
year under review. Chloride continued to outperform the market, achieving
total sales growth of 8% (11% in constant currency). Operating profit,
before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and excluding losses 
in TPS, France and China of £0.9 million, was up 27% to £11.7 million.We
have made good progress in gaining market share in our core European
market, where our success in large systems indicates renewed investment
by call centre and data centre operators, as they install the next generation
server hardware, and respond to increased awareness of the threat to
business continuity. Good growth was also achieved in the oil, gas, energy
and medical sectors.
Chloride performed particularly well in Europe, with sales up 10% (13% 
in constant currency). Sales made good progress in nearly all territories,
but in China we suffered from lower sales in TPS, and in Iraq the slowdown
in the rebuilding programme meant that there was no repeat of the large
hospital contract enjoyed in the previous year. Sales were up 36% in the
Middle East (excluding Iraq) and up 30% in Latin America, although this 
is a small market for us at the present time. Sales in the USA were up 
12% in US dollars, but this was largely eliminated on translation into sterling.
* Source: Frost & Sullivan World UPS Market Report 2004 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 9
Product sales were up by 6% (10% in constant currency), with success in 
a wide range of applications.These included a large data centre in Germany,
central to Vodafone’s GSM mobile network, the pan European Eurofighter
flight simulator project, where Chloride’s European capabilities were an
important factor in winning the contract, the Sonatrach oil pipeline in
Algeria and a large power protection project for the Hudson’s Bay
Company, Canada’s largest department store chain.
Service sales again achieved strong growth – up 11% (13% in constant
currency), reflecting the importance of after sales service support to 
the whole range of critical power protection applications that we serve.
Our services and solutions are key differentiators in developing long term
partnerships with our customers worldwide. Our performance in the 
year reflects the continuing progress in this vitally important aspect 
of our business.
The operating profit margin before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation improved 1.1 points to 6.6%.This was held back by the 
losses in TPS. In the continuing power protection businesses, good progress
was made in reducing product costs from new designs and increased
outsourcing, and administrative overheads were tightly controlled without
constraining our ability to grow the business, resulting in an improvement 
in the operating margin of 1.2 points to 7.7%.
Far left: Emiliano Cevenini, Product Manager, UPS Systems
Giancarlo Battini, General Manager, Sales and Service Italy
Franco Costa,Vice President Marketing, UPS Systems
Paolo Mistroni, LIFE Product Manager
Left: T ed Antonitis, President, Power Protection 
North America
SALES GROWTH IN EUROPE
2005 2004 2003
+4%
+10%
UP 10%
ADJUSTED OPERATING 
PROFIT MARGIN GROWTH
2005 2004 2003
5.5%
4.9%
6.6%
UP 1 . 1 POINTS 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
POWER PROTECTION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Building on our success
Solutions expertise Chloride has consistently outperformed many of 
its competitors, demonstrating its ability to compete against far larger
organisations.We believe a key reason for this is our high quality technical
solutions and service support, and this is why we continue to invest 
in expanding our resources in power protection solutions for critical
applications. In Europe, we now have over 200 technical and service
engineers on the ground in seven countries, demonstrating our
commitment to meeting customers’ needs.
An important aspect of our Total Solutions approach is LIFE.net, our
industry leading remote monitoring and diagnostic system, which was
updated last year with a web enabled version. LIFE connections have once
again risen by 10%, as an increasing number of our customers recognise 
the vital importance of the proactive service and fast response times that
this system offers.
During the second half of the year we introduced Aposyc, an important
software tool which enables us to improve our response and service to
customers, especially where there are complex system design requirements.
A new Customer Relationship Management system aimed at improving 
the interface with customers was introduced in the UK, and will be
progressively introduced in other parts of the Group. In Australia we 
are piloting a new Service Management system, designed to improve
administration and response to customers in our service businesses.
People We pride ourselves on having some of the most talented and
experienced people in the industry. Our senior managers have many years’
successful experience in power protection, and we invest in training our
sales and service engineers to meet the best technical standards.
In Italy, Emiliano Cevenini, who has been with Chloride since graduating
from the University of Bologna, has been recognised by his appointment 
as President of the SC22 UPS sub committee of the EC-recognised Electro
Technical Commission.This body is responsible for developing safety and
technical standards for UPS systems in Europe and globally.This prestigious
appointment is a great credit to Emiliano and confirms that Chloride’s
greatest asset is its committed and highly-trained workforce.
Senior management 
Far left: Ian Bray, Senior Vice President, Finance and Systems
David Renton, President, Sales and Service 
Susan Williams, Group Secretary and Legal Adviser 
Lamberto T assara, President, UPS Systems
Left: Frank Audrain, President, Industrial Systems 
Gavin Leathem, Group Personnel Director
Paul Unsworth, Group Business Development Director 
Martin Strutt,Vice President, Operations
LIFE CONNECTIONS
2005 2004 2003
5,681
4,883
6,256
UP 10% ANNUAL REPORT 2005 11
Product development Our product development programme keeps
Chloride at the forefront of power protection technology.We have
replaced existing products with a new range of single phase UPS products
from 6 –10 Kva, and a new range of three phase products from 10 – 500
Kva, all with highly competitive specifications and lower cost of manufacture.
In the USA we introduced a new series of power conditioners to meet 
the exacting safety standards applicable to the medical sector, which is an
important growth market; a range of power conditioned uninterruptible
power supplies for the protection of retail electronic point-of-sale systems;
and an extension to the range of telecom line protectors for HDSL
applications. Our connectivity offering was also updated to support a wider
span of connectivity options demanded by our customers worldwide.
We also completed our Apodys range of modular products based on vector
digital control technology.These products have proved successful in the oil,
gas and energy sectors.
Information technology The Company has progressed its strategy to
upgrade the strength and security of its operating systems to best 
practice levels and to improve the speed and quality of customer, supplier
and internal communications, by investing a further £1.3 million in IT
infrastructure. Enhancements to the security aspects of LIFE.net have 
also been implemented.
A further £2.0 million was spent on updating and standardising business
software and processes, mainly in Italy, Germany, and France.The objective
of these upgrades has been to enhance operational efficiency.This investment
has played a vital role in enabling the smooth transfer of capability to Italy
and third parties, following closure of our manufacturing capacity in
Germany. Further investment in business software will be made in other
sales and service companies in the coming year.
Outlook
This has been an important year for Chloride.We have achieved strong
growth by building on our recognised strengths and refining our strategy 
to sharpen focus to increase competitive advantage. As a result, we enter
the new year with an order book ahead of last year, a more efficient cost
base and strong balance sheet.We are confident that these benefits,
together with our sharpened strategic focus on core markets where we
have consistently demonstrated competitive advantage, will strengthen our
position in these growing markets in the coming year.We will continue 
to review opportunities for further acquisitions which support our strategy
and complement our capabilities.
KEITH HODGKINSON
Far left: Roberto Sola, IT Manager, UPS Systems Italy
Left: Mike O’Keeffe, UK Service Director 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
LAURENT SERVANT  PROJECT MANAGER, FRANCE
The Sonatrach project was managed by Laurent Servant,
who began his career with Chloride and was promoted 
to his current role of project manager four years ago.
Part of his role was to design a tailored training programme 
for Sonatrach technicians.
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION
SOLUTIONS IN OIL AND GAS
Chloride performs
strongly in the
petrochemical sector,
where growing demand 
for oil and gas is 
driving expansion 
POWER PROTECTION ANNUAL REPORT 2005 13
SONATRACH, ALGERIA
The state-owned company, Sonatrach, operates an
extensive network of pipelines to transport oil and 
gas from production fields and refineries in Algeria,
and also as a major export conduit.
Sonatrach selected a range of Apodys equipment and
batteries to protect the compression stations of the
pipeline bringing oil from the Sahara Desert to the 
port of Skikeda. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
ROBERTO POYATO TECHNICAL SUPPORT MANAGER, SPAIN
Roberto Poyato graduated from university with a degree in physics and
electronics and first started with Chloride in 1996, since when he has
worked in exports and technical support, with a particular interest in the
consultant training programme. He found the collaboration with Chloride
UK and other Chloride operations particularly helpful in supporting this
important international project.
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION
SOLUTIONS IN GOVERNMENT PROJECTS
POWER PROTECTION
Chloride’s Total Solution
approach gives competitive
advantage in government
projects, including defence
and healthcare, where
reliability and speed 
of service are essential. ANNUAL REPORT 2005 15
EUROFIGHTER PILOT TRAINING
Flight simulators are an important element 
in training Eurofighter pilots to handle difficult 
flying conditions. Chloride Spain has won the 
power protection contract for Eurofighter flight
simulators in military airports in Spain, Germany,
Italy and the UK. Chloride’s pan European 
capabilities were an important factor in winning 
the contract. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR POWER PROTECTION
SOLUTIONS IN TELECOMS
REINHARD SZCZESNEY  SERVICE ENGINEER, GERMANY
Reinhard Szczesney is Team Leader at Chloride’s service centre 
in Dusseldorf. Reinhard has many years’ experience in power 
electronics with Chloride, and previously with Siemens, and played 
a key role in implementing the project to tight deadlines without 
disrupting the Vodafone network.
POWER PROTECTION
Chloride’s success in
sales of large systems
indicates renewed
investment by call
centre and data centre
operators worldwide. ANNUAL REPORT 2005 17
VODAFONE, GERMANY
Vodafone’s information systems plant in Ratingen, Germany
is the largest of its kind in Europe, supporting Vodafone’s
GSM mobile network and controlling worldwide data traffic.
Vodafone chose Chloride to provide power protection 
for this vital facility, where continuous availability of the
Vodafone network is paramount. Chloride’s total solution
includes remote monitoring through LIFE.net to secure 
the highest reliability for this complex application.
