 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
OVERVIEW
This year we accelerated the rate of progress through our strategy
of focusing on our core business, driving cost savings and developing
our presence in sectors where our total solutions approach has
competitive advantage. Sales growth has been excellent, and we
have delivered a further increase in our operating margin supported
by strong cash generation.
Our strategic investments have strengthened the Group. Harath,
acquired in April 2005, enhanced Chloride’s position as the industry-
leading integrated power protection service organisation in the UK.
The investment in DB Power Electronics enabled us to access the
fast-growing Indian market and provide comprehensive technical 
and service support for our international customers in that
important territory.
In addition, at the beginning of the year we completed both the exit
from our non-core loss-making Telecom Power Systems businesses
and the restructuring in Germany.These actions sharpened the focus
on our core business, resulting in a significant increase in profits.
KEY FINANCIALS
Group sales increased by 18% to £179.2 million (2005: £151.7 million).
Adjusted operating profit was up 55% to £17.5 million (2005:
£11.3 million), emphasising the strong operational gearing of the
business. Harath met our expectations, contributing to the growth 
in service revenue. As expected, adjusted operating profit was
significantly improved by the strong sales growth, together with the
improvements in efficiencies and restructuring activities undertaken
at the beginning of the year.
Despite the buoyant trading environment, the power protection
market remains highly price competitive. Increasing the operating
margin was therefore a key management objective for the year 
and I am pleased to confirm that, as a result of better product
margins and cost savings, we closed the year with an operating
margin of 9.8% – 2.4 points better than last year.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 55% to £15.6 million 
(2005: £10.1 million), generating adjusted earnings per share 
of 4.77p (2005: 3.19p) – an increase of 50%. Basic earnings 
per share was 4.73p (2005: 2.01p).
Adjusted operating cash inflow was strong at £20.1 million 
(2005: £12.0 million), representing 115% of adjusted operating 
profit. Net debt for the year was held at close to last year’s level 
at £16.9 million (2005: £16.3 million), after the acquisition of Harath,
the investment in DB Power Electronics, the benefit of the Chloride
Telecom Systems disposal proceeds, the payment of £2.7 million 
in restructuring costs and an exceptional contribution of £1 million 
to the UK pension scheme.
UK PENSION SCHEME
We made a further contribution of £2.5 million to the pension
scheme after the year-end, with the intention of eliminating the
deficit. Measures have also been introduced to increase employee
contributions and reduce certain benefits, so as to maintain the
annual Company contribution rate at current levels for the
foreseeable future.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
NORMAN BROADHURST ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5
DIVIDEND
In light of our continued confidence in the Company’s future
prospects, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 1.25p per share
(2005: 1.0p).Together with the interim dividend of 1.0p, this gives 
a full year dividend of 2.25p – an increase of 22% on the prior year
whilst increasing dividend cover. Subject to shareholders’ approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 
1 August 2006 to shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006.
BOARD
Angus Fraser has decided to retire as a non-executive director 
at this year’s AGM on 25 July. Angus joined the Board in 1984 
and became a non-executive in 1988. Over these 22 years he 
has been a great asset to the Board, and I am grateful to him for 
the contribution he has made, both as a Board member over this
period, and over the last five years as Senior Independent Director
and Chairman of the Audit Committee. My fellow directors and 
I will miss his wise counsel, his depth of knowledge and his support.
We welcome Eric Tracey and Gary Bullard as non-executive
directors. Gary’s strong background in the IT and telecom industries,
and Eric’s extensive experience in finance and accounting, coupled
with his recent background as Finance Director of Amey plc and
Wembley plc will strengthen the Board as we continue to drive 
the Company’s strategic development.
OUTLOOK
Secure power is an essential requirement of business continuity 
for our customers.We address market sectors where our total
power protection solutions give us real and sustainable competitive
advantage. Our sharpened strategic focus and the actions taken 
to extend our solutions capability and geographic reach have
enabled us to maximise our advantage as the pace of growth 
has increased in many of our market sectors.
The order book at the year end was significantly ahead of the prior
year, underpinning our prospects for the coming year.The sustained
improvement in many of our markets and our focus on high-growth
sectors give us confidence for the future.We continue to improve
and develop our existing international operations and to seek
opportunities to expand our business by acquisition.
NORMAN BROADHURST
