 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
IMPROVING MARKETS
The world market for UPS products grew ahead of industry
expectations in 2005.This growth was fuelled by increasing demand
for secure power in data and call centres, with customers investing in
additional facilities as the existing capacity approached full utilisation.
The re-emergence of this business sector had a positive impact for
Chloride, driving significant increases in orders and sales, particularly
in the financial services and telecoms/IT sectors.
Following the strong resurgence of the world UPS market in 2005,
our markets are expected to continue to grow, as businesses and
government organisations become increasingly dependent on secure
power for business continuity.Trends such as increased automation 
of processes and expansion in IT and telecoms will continue to put
pressure on inadequate power supply networks, driving demand for
secure power for critical applications.The industry’s leading market
research company, Frost & Sullivan, in its World UPS Markets report
for 2006 estimated that the market increased by 11.9% in 2005,
and is forecasting that after the thrust to increase data and call centre
capacity in the last two years, market growth is predicted to return
to a more normal rate of circa 6.4% a year by 2007*.
ORDERS AND ORDER BOOK
We achieved growth in product orders of 16%, well ahead of the
market, with particular successes in financial services, telecoms/IT,
energy and petrochemicals, transport, government and healthcare.
Orders for large systems were also ahead of the market, driven by
the surge in demand in data centre applications for financial services
and IT/telecoms. Product orders were secured well ahead of sales,
resulting in an increase in the order book at the year end of
approximately £8.0 million.
SALES
T otal sales We made good progress this year, with total sales
growth of 18%, from a combination of organic growth, the
acquisition of the UK critical power services company Harath, and
the strategic alliance with DB Power Electronics, India. Sales in our
Industrial Systems business were affected by timing issues, with some
major projects being deferred into the new year. As a result, our
order book is now well ahead of last year, forming an excellent 
base for accelerated progress in the current financial year.
Product sales Product sales were up 13% on last year – the 
best rate of growth we have seen since 2001.This has largely 
been achieved through our success in medium and high power 
UPS systems where our capabilities provide competitive advantage.
These systems are ideally suited to the high power demands of 
data centres such as the prestigious project we undertook for the
German Stock Exchange operator, Deutsche Börse AG, to protect
its data centre in Frankfurt, Germany.
*SOURCE: FROST & SULLIVAN WORLD UPS MARKETS REPORT 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
KEITH HODGKINSON
MARKET GROWTH FORECAST
SOURCE:  FROST & SULLIVAN WORLD UPS MARKETS REPORT 2006
6.0%
+3.2% 
2003
+9.0% 
2004
+11.9% 
2005
+7.1% 
2006
+6.4% 
2007
+5.9% 
2008
+6.0% 
2009 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 7
Service sales Service again achieved strong growth – up 31%,
including Harath. Service now accounts for 33% of turnover.
The integration of Harath with our existing UK service operation
now enables us to offer comprehensive service packages for 
a broader range of critical power protection equipment, including
enhanced remote monitoring, to our UK customers.This total
service solution approach offers significant opportunities for
progressive growth as we roll it out in other countries.
Market sectors Sales have been increased in many of our market
sectors with excellent growth in data centre applications for financial
services, telecoms and IT. During the year we completed projects 
for numerous international banks including Macquarie Bank,Australia,
HSBC, and Barclays; for telecoms operators such as Orange, France
Telecom and Vodafone; and IT companies such as IBM and Unisys.
Sales have also increased in other market segments, notably:
l transport – where our expertise in challenging transport
applications, plus unrivalled service capability were key factors 
in winning the contract for London Heathrow Terminal 5;
l energy – among many assignments in this sector our Industrial
Systems business gained a new customer in Spain, gasNatural; and
l healthcare – where the success of previous projects resulted 
in the award of a further contract with the Meyer Children’s
Hospital in Florence, Italy and several hospital projects in the UK.
In the leisure sector, we completed an important project with Sky
television in Italy, while continuing to build up expertise in stadium
applications. Our applications expertise in data centres, transport
infrastructure and stadia will ensure that we are well placed to bid
for contracts for the London Olympics.
International sales Sales growth was in excess of the market 
in all our geographic territories.
In Europe, our largest market, sales were up by 16% with good
performance in the UK,Turkey, Spain and Eastern Europe. Sales in the
Americas were up by 22%, with very strong growth in Brazil and above
market growth in North America. Asia Pacific recovered strongly in
the second half and closed the year 19% ahead, benefiting from good
growth in Australia, China and India. Our relationship with DB Power
Electronics in India has been important in penetrating this new high
growth market for Chloride products.Africa and the Middle East, our
smallest market, also performed well – up 37% – and we have good
prospects in the Middle East, especially for oil, gas and energy applications.
SKY TELEVISION
SKY Italia, which began operations in 2003, relies on Chloride’s high
performance 90-net UPS systems for secure power in all aspects of its
production process.With three million subscribers, an audience of ten million
and 31,000 hours of programming, secure power is vital for continuity of
SKY’s broadcasting output and advertising revenue. SKY Italia’s 160 audio 
and pay-per-view channels are protected by our total solution, including 
24-hour remote monitoring through LIFE.net, which gives significant added
value to SKY.
2005
Europe Americas Asia Pacific Africa/Middle East
+16%
+22%
+19%
+37%
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006
0.0
2006
INTERNATIONAL SALES GROWTH 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
Operating profit and margins Adjusted operating profit was
increased by £6.2 million to £17.5 million, an increase of 55% on 
a sales increase of 18%, demonstrating the robust nature of our
business model.
Although market conditions were much improved there was
continuing pressure on both product and service prices. Despite
this, the actions taken to reduce direct costs, improve operational
efficiency and secure better pricing through our total solutions
approach resulted in improved margins for both products and
services.This, with continued tight management of overhead 
costs, secured a 2.4 point operating margin improvement 
to 9.8%.This is the fourth consecutive year of operating 
margin improvement.
BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMPETITIVE
ADVANTAGE 
We have a well defined strategy to build sustainable competitive
advantage and accelerate growth by developing our position as a
tightly focused, market leading power protection solutions provider.
We seek to:
l continue to improve operational performance by:
• developing our total solutions business model
• expanding our service capabilities to grow service revenue
• expanding geographic coverage in high growth markets
l accelerate growth through:
• adding to our range of capabilities in critical power 
infrastructure services
• seeking opportunities to invest in new products 
and markets adjacent to the core business
We strive to be “best in class” in our chosen markets and territories
by continual investment in the improvement and expansion of our
capabilities and technology, and we are convinced that our total
solutions offering is a key factor in winning business with blue chip
customers throughout the world.
Expanding capabilities In April 2005 we acquired Harath 
to enhance our range of services in the UK. Harath has been
successfully integrated into our UK service business enabling us 
to expand our service solution capability to cover additional
electrical equipment in the critical power protection infrastructure.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
2002
5.5%
4.0%
2003
6.2%
2004
7.4%
2005
9.8%
2.4 
points
2006
CONSISTENT OPERATING MARGIN 
IMPROVEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2006 9
Harath has a strong reputation and customers have responded
positively to our broader service proposition.This is particularly 
true of the financial services sector, where we won orders for
products and service covering the expanded range from financial
institutions including Barclays, Bank of America and Nationwide
Building Society.We are also growing our contract base with facilities
management companies in the UK as awareness of our extended
service capability builds.
Investing in technology We continue to invest in improving 
our technology and solutions. During the year we introduced new
versions of our 80-Net UPS system, together with a new 90-Net
high power system.These products, with their high energy efficiency,
small footprint and scalability to satisfy even the most demanding
power requirements, are ideally suited to data centre applications.
In Industrial Systems, the Apodys range has been redesigned 
to achieve manufacturing cost reductions and our US power
conditioning subsidiary, Oneac, has introduced enhancements 
to its range of products for the US market.
LIFE.net, our industry-leading remote monitoring software has been
upgraded to extend to generators, giving further scope for selling
our integrated critical power protection services. LIFE.net remains 
an important part of our total solution. Connections have risen 
by 12.5% this year demonstrating the importance our customers
place on having technical support around the clock.We have
opened further LIFE.net monitoring stations, all connected to the
master monitoring station in Italy, so that we now have monitoring
facilities serving customers in 22 countries, giving comprehensive
global coverage.
NATIONWIDE BUILDING SOCIETY
Chloride’s project with Nationwide Building Society is an early success for 
our strategic move to widen our critical power protection offering. Chloride
Harath was chosen to supply a complete generator/UPS system solution 
for Nationwide’s call centre.As the number one supplier of critical power
protection services in the UK, we were able to deliver a tailored solution
from consultation to final testing, together with an unsurpassed level of 
post-sale technical support through our UK service team.
INCREASING LIFE.NET CONNECTIONS
4,883
2003
5,681
2004
6,256
2005
7,032
12.5%
2006
GLOBAL LIFE.NET COVERAGE
Monitoring stations in:
Argentina,Australia,Austria, Brazil, Chile, China, Croatia, France, Germany,
India, Italy, Japan, Pakistan, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Syria,
Thailand,T urkey, UK, USA 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
Widening presence in high growth markets In June 2005
we completed an investment in DB Power Electronics, the leading
Indian independent power protection company. Many of Chloride’s
customers are present in this fast growing market, and the ability to
offer our internationally-recognised UPS systems, combined with the
sales and service expertise and coverage of DB Power Electronics,
has already proved successful. As a result of this relationship,
Chloride UPS systems were selected by IBM India for their data
centres in four Indian cities, and we now have an excellent platform
to serve our customers and increase product sales in the dynamic
Indian market.
Following initial sales successes, we decided to establish a sales 
and service company in Poland, a market where modernisation 
of the infrastructure and demand for secure power is driving
growth.We are now adding technical and service resources 
to provide better support to our customers and develop our
service operations.
Consistent delivery of this strategy has enabled Chloride to
outperform in today’s recovering markets. Our success was
recognised during the year by the Frost & Sullivan Growth 
Strategy Leadership Award 2005, which was judged on the 
basis of factors including technological innovation and leadership;
strategic acquisitions; and reorganisation structured around 
growth strategy.
We intend to pursue this strategy to drive progress in selected
markets and build our capabilities as a total solution provider 
for critical power protection solutions.
PEOPLE
Once again our people have delivered excellent results,
demonstrating their talent and enthusiasm for developing Chloride’s
business.We give high priority to attracting and retaining the best
people and to giving them opportunities to extend their sales,
technical and business skills in ways that benefit the Company.
Employees with special potential receive accelerated training 
and development and broad international experience. As a global
company we actively encourage people to move around the
business, helping to exchange ideas and extend best practice 
across our operations in Europe, the USA and Asia Pacific.
We place great emphasis on training that promotes our total
solutions approach, notably through our technical training school 
in Bologna, so that our engineers remain at the forefront of the
industry and give our customers excellent pre- and post-sales 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 11
technical support. Our training concept will be developed further 
in the coming year, including the introduction of web-based training
tools for remote learning.We also encourage employees to
participate in industry bodies that set technical standards for 
the industry, including CEMEP , the European representative body 
for manufacturers of power electronics.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our people for their
contribution to our success and for their continuing commitment 
to Chloride.
PROSPECTS
We have made excellent progress in increasing sales and profits,
while continuing to invest in improving our competitive position.
Our total solutions offering has enabled us to grow sales and build
margins in a price competitive environment.The focus on working
capital management again resulted in strong operating cash inflow.
Business continuity relies on secure power and this continues to
drive the demand for our power protection solutions.The improving
trend in many of our markets is borne out by our year-end order
book, which was significantly ahead of last year. We look to build 
on this sustained momentum by continuing our strategic focus 
on high-growth markets and sectors where our total solutions 
offer competitive advantage, and by actively seeking further
acquisition opportunities that complement this strategy.
KEITH HODGKINSON
GASNATURAL, SPAIN
Chloride’s international presence was a major factor this year in gaining 
an order from gasNatural, a multinational energy services company focusing
on the supply and distribution of natural gas in Latin America, Spain and 
Italy. Chloride Industrial Systems collaborated with Chloride Spain to 
win the power protection contract for a new electricity generating plant 
in Spain, which achieves high energy performance levels using natural gas 
combined cycles. Increased demand for secure power in call and data centres is driving
growth, particularly in the IT, telecoms and financial services sectors.
Our strategic alliance with the leading Indian independent power
protection company, DB Power Electronics, now allows us to provide
a total solution to our customers in India.The combination of our
internationally-recognised products, backed up by DB Power’s
outstanding technical expertise and nationwide service support,
was a deciding factor in 
the award of a contract by
IBM India to supply power 
protection for its data 
centres in four Indian cities.
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR DATA CENTRES
  ANNUAL REPORT 200613
DATA CENTRES
INDIA
IT/TELECOMS
PROJECT................................................
COUNTRY............................................
SECTOR................................................. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES
Business continuity is paramount for Deutsche Börse AG, which
operates the German Stock Exchange in Frankfurt, and a further 
15 stock exchanges worldwide.The efficient management and
storage of data is fundamental to its activities, which include
processing securities and derivatives transactions, settlements, and 
the provision of market information. Chloride won the contract 
to provide the power protection solution for the Deutsche Börse
main computer 
centre in Frankfurt.
Chloride’s offering 
was differentiated 
by its technical and 
service capabilities,
and total solution,
including a 
comprehensive 
maintenance 
programme and 
LIFE.net remote 
monitoring. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 15
FRANKFURT STOCK EXCHANGE
GERMANY
FINANCIAL SERVICES
PROJECT.............
COUNTRY.........
SECTOR.............. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR HEALTHCARE
In 2005, Chloride was acknowledged by the independent research
company, Frost & Sullivan, as the market leader in medical UPS
solutions in the UK. Its expertise in healthcare applications has
resulted in new projects in the UK, including the New Romford 
and John Radcliffe Hospitals.This expertise extends throughout
Chloride’s international sales and service network.The Meyer
Paediatric Hospital in Florence 
is a centre of excellence 
for paediatric care in Italy,
and a longstanding customer 
of Chloride Italy.
The hospital, which 
is constructing a new 
wing for children’s 
surgery, chose 
Chloride for its 
innovative technology 
and excellent 
service support. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 17
MEYER PAEDIATRIC HOSPITAL
ITALY
HEALTHCARE
PROJECT.............
COUNTRY.........
SECTOR.............. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR TRANSPORT
Chloride is the preferred supplier for power protection at London
Heathrow’s Terminal 5. Due to be completed in 2008 at a cost of
£4.2 million,Terminal 5 is the largest construction project in Europe.
Chloride’s UPS systems will play a key role at Terminal 5, providing
secure power to critical safety applications in airside installations,
rail and underground links, the passenger transit system, and the
terminal building, as well as protecting 
the IT systems and data centre.
The unmatched level 
of technical and service 
support that Chloride 
is able to provide,
backed up by 24-hour 
LIFE.net remote 
monitoring was 
a key factor in 
winning the project. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 19
TERMINAL 5, HEATHROW AIRPORT
UNITED KINGDOM
TRANSPORT
PROJECT.............
COUNTRY.........
SECTOR..............
