 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 1: Overview
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
COMPETITIVE
ADVANTAGE
Chloride has again delivered very strong growth in sales, proﬁts and orders.
This momentum was underpinned by our focus on buoyant market sectors
including IT services, energy and oil & gas, where we grew well ahead of the
market. We continued to grow strongly in our main European market where
our total solutions approach is welcomed by our customers and provides
real competitive advantage. Good progress was made in Asia Paciﬁc and
the Middle East where we continue to invest in these attractive markets.
Our strategic positioning as a provider of secure power solutions reinforces
our pace of growth, as blue-chip customers across the globe recognise that
power quality is critical to their business continuity.
In December 2007 the Company entered the FTSE 250 Index, reﬂecting the
strong growth in its market value.
KEY FINANCIALS
Total sales increased by 31% to £267 .6 million
(2007: £204.4 million), with product sales up
33% at £182.8 million and service revenue
up 26% at £84.8 million. Adjusted operating
proﬁt increased by 54% to £36.1 million (2007:
£23.5 million), reﬂecting the strong operational
gearing of our business model. The operating
margin increased by 2 points to 13.5% – the
sixth successive year of increase.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax increased by 54%
to £33.3 million (2007: £21 .7 million), generating
adjusted earnings per share of 9.51p
(2007: 6.63p), an increase of 43%. Basic
earnings per share was 9.99p (2007: 6.38p).
Operating cash ﬂow was £30.0 million (2007:
£24.3 million), representing 83% of adjusted
operating proﬁt, after accommodating the
increase in working capital to support the
strong growth in sales and orders.
Net debt for the year was ﬂat at £21 .8 million
(2007: £21 .3 million) after capital expenditure,
payment of dividends, acquisitions, tax,
interest and the purchase of own shares
by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust, all of which
totalled £35.1 million.
Tax provisions of £2.9 million were released
during the year. These related to potential
taxation risks on businesses divested in 2001 the
provisions for which were no longer required.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS
We made a number of strategic investments
to improve and expand our capabilities,
focusing on attractive geographic and
market sectors. In Europe, our core market,
Masterpower Electronics Limited acquired
in March 2007 , met expectations and now
provides a platform to extend our business
in the UK oil & gas and energy sectors. We
acquired AST Services Electronique SARL,
to expand our multi-vendor service capabilities
in France and, towards the end of the year,
we took a minority stake in Eltek UPS to
introduce the Chloride brand to Scandinavia.
In addition, Chloride Rus was formed with our
long-standing partners in Russia where we
already have a number of blue-chip customers
in the ﬁnancial services and oil & gas sectors.
The high-growth
characteristics of our
main market sectors are
underpinned by robust
long-term market drivers ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5
Since Keith was appointed Chief Executive in
1992, the Company has been transformed into
a focused secure power solutions company,
with leading positions in high-growth markets
worldwide. We have developed a clear strategy
for growth and progressively invested in
people and resources to support our strategic
development. My fellow directors and I are
very grateful to Keith for his leadership and
clear vision throughout this exciting period.
Keith will be succeeded as Chief Executive by
Tim Cobbold, who joined the Board as Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer in June 2007 . Tim joined
Chloride from Smiths Group, where he held
a number of senior appointments notably
in the John Crane division. We are conﬁdent
that under Tim’s leadership, and with our
proven strategy for growth, Chloride will
prosper further.
I am pleased to welcome Paul Lester, who
joined the Board as a non-executive director
in September. Paul is Chief Executive of
VT Group and the Board will beneﬁt from his
wealth of industrial experience, particularly
in service delivery and facilities management.
Robin Southwell, who has been a non-executive
director since 2002, will retire from the Board
at the AGM in July, and I greatly appreciate his
support over the last six years. Gary Bullard
will take over Chairmanship of the Remuneration
Committee on Robin’s retirement.
PEOPLE
Our people are crucial to Chloride’s success
and on behalf of the Board I would like to
thank them for another year of exceptional
progress. Our commitment to training
is demonstrated through the continued
investment in the Chloride Academy, and I
am pleased to report that in its ﬁrst year of
operation 130 of our employees successfully
passed residential and distance-learning
courses run by the Academy.
A WELL-POSITIONED BUSINESS
Chloride has established an international
reputation for providing market-leading power
protection solutions. We continue to make
excellent progress in our major European
market, and our expansion in Asia Paciﬁc and
the Middle East is gathering momentum as
we continue to strengthen our infrastructure
and market presence.
The high-growth characteristics of our main
market sectors are underpinned by robust
long-term market drivers. In particular, energy
shortages and rising oil prices will continue
to attract high levels of capital investment into
these sectors. We are conﬁdent that through
the consistent application of our proven
strategy and ongoing enhancement of our
solutions offering we are well positioned
to deliver continued high returns on capital,
strong earnings growth and excellent cash
generation over the long term.
CURRENT TRADING
We entered the new ﬁnancial year with
a record order book reﬂecting order intake
consistently ahead of sales. This positive trend
has continued into the ﬁrst two months of
the current year, with sales, operating proﬁt
and operating margin well ahead of last year
and in line with management’s expectations.
Product and service orders have again
increased and we ended May with a yet
stronger order book, supporting the Board’s
conﬁdence in the outlook for the year.
Norman Broadhurst
In Asia Paciﬁc we acquired Ascor Power
Systems Pte Limited, Singapore and quickly
invested in new facilities in Singapore to
establish Chloride South East Asia as our
regional centre for sales, technical support
and training in the region. We also increased
our shareholding in DB Power Electronics,
India to 32%. This business is exceeding
expectations and provides access to
international and domestic customers
for Chloride’s large systems in the Indian
IT services, ﬁnance and oil & gas sectors.
We took an important strategic step in the
management of our supply chain, with the
completion of a manufacturing joint venture
with Phoenixtec Power Company, Taiwan.
Production of large systems to Chloride
speciﬁcations has now commenced in a new
facility in Shenzhen China, and we expect
important beneﬁts to come through towards
the end of the current ﬁnancial year, as the
facility approaches full production.
We continue to look for suitable acquisition
opportunities which will add long-term
shareholder value.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to propose a ﬁnal
dividend of 2.40p per share (2007: 1 .70p),
reﬂecting our continued conﬁdence in the
Company’s future prospects. Together with
the interim dividend of 1 .60p, this gives a
dividend for the year of 4.00p – an increase
of 33% on the prior year. Subject to
shareholders’ approval at the Annual General
Meeting (AGM) the ﬁnal dividend will be paid
on 4 August 2008 to shareholders on the
register at close of business on 11 July 2008.
BOARD
In March we announced that Keith Hodgkinson
will be retiring from the Board at our AGM in
July and will continue in an advisory capacity
until November 2008.
We have developed a clear
strategy for accelerated
growth and progressively
invested in people and
resources to support our
strategic development
