 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 2: Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
A PROVEN
STRATEGY
Chloride is uniquely positioned as a focused provider of high-quality secure power
solutions. We have a proven strategy to build sustainable competitive advantage
and accelerate growth through:
 focusing on geographies and market sectors which exhibit long-term growth
characteristics;
 investing in people, technology and services to align our capabilities closely
with our chosen geographic markets and sectors; and
 continual improvement of our robust and cash-generative business model.
Through the consistent execution of our
strategy we are market leaders in our largest
market, Western Europe. We were proud
to be named European UPS Company of
the Year 2007 by the leading independent
market research company Frost & Sullivan,
in recognition of the exceptional growth
in all areas of our European business.
By applying this strategic framework to
developing international markets and sectors
we are winning business and building
platforms for further growth in dynamic
markets across the world.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH MARKETS
In 2007 the world market for UPS products
grew for the ﬁfth year in succession. Frost &
Sullivan estimated market growth of 13%
for 2007 , and a compound annual growth rate
of 8.6% through to 2011 – an increase in
market size of nearly $3 billion over the period.
Chloride’s secure power solutions are closely
aligned to high-growth sectors of the market,
such as IT services including data centres, oil
& gas, energy and transportation where capital
investment in infrastructure is accelerating.
The market drivers have proved enduring
– secure electrical power is an essential
requirement for global businesses and public
sector organisations as they seek to protect
their critical applications from the damaging
effects of degrading power quality. The failure
to improve power infrastructures to match
the rate of growth in many economies
underpins the prospects for long-term
growth in our industry.
WORLD UPS MARKET REVENUE FORECAST
07 11 10 09 08
+9.8%
+12.9%
+7.2%
+8.4%
+8.8%
Source: Frost & Sullivan
8.6%
CAGR
2007-2011 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 9
FOCUSING
ON HIGH GROWTH SECTORS
OIL & GAS AND ENERGY
Rising prices and demand for energy
are driving growth in this sector.
Chloride won orders worldwide,
including many from the Middle East.
TRANSPORT
Chloride solutions were selected
for major airport projects in Mexico,
Jordan, Abu Dhabi and Dubai.
IT SERVICES
Chloride’s large systems and services
are tailored to the needs of data
centres and other critical process
applications, enabling us to win
signiﬁcant orders such as the Global
Switch data centre in Singapore.
DATA CENTRES
E-shelter selected Chloride for its
Frankfurt data centre – the largest
in Europe. 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 2: Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
DEVELOPING
SOLUTIONS CAPABILITY
SERVICES
Technical service and support is an
essential part of our offering, enabling
us to win contracts with a broad scope
of products and services such as the
order from the Driver and Vehicle
Licensing Centre, Swansea.
PEOPLE
The Chloride Academy completed
its ﬁrst year delivering residential
and distance learning courses to
employees, improving our skills
base and spreading best practice
throughout the Group.
PRODUCTS
Our products are continually updated,
reducing footprint and improving
energy efﬁciency. The new R&D
centre in Pune, India gives us
access to a further 100 technical
and software engineers.
LIFE.NET
Our industry-leading remote
diagnostic system has been extended
to cover a range of critical power
protection equipment, including
standby generators. ANNUAL REPORT 2008 11
A PROVEN
STRATEGY
CONSISTENT INCREASE IN
LIFE.NET CONNECTIONS
08 07 06 05
+10%
+14%
+11%
+12%
+14%
INCREASING SERVICE SALES£MILLION
08 07 06 05
+10%
+27%
+13%
+31%
84.8
+26%
DEVELOPING OUR SOLUTIONS OFFERING
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
At the end of the year we streamlined the
management structure to combine sales
and service and operations for both standard
and industrial systems. We also consolidated
the R&D, production, sales and service and
product marketing functions. This move will
more effectively leverage our sales and service
network, our technology and operational
capability to extend best practice in solutions
development throughout the Group. This step
will be important in driving sales growth and
cost efﬁciencies as we move forward.
SERVICES
Our success is based on our ability to provide
industry-leading products and services,
tailored to the requirements of our global
blue-chip customers. We are continually
improving our services offering, expanding
our international scope and extending
our capabilities in services for multi-vendor
UPS and other critical electronic equipment.
LIFE.net, our industry-leading remote
diagnostic software is an important part
of our solutions offering. We again made
improvements to LIFE.net, enhancing the
system to monitor a range of non-UPS
equipment, and introducing secure internet
communications between the monitoring
stations and the installed base.
Our services are closely aligned to the
demands of large system applications,
which drive the growth in services, generate
recurring high-margin service revenues and
give us visibility of future earnings.
Revenue from services was up 26%
to £84.8 million, (19% organic), and now
accounts for 32% of total sales. Our service
order book is £9.3 million ahead of last year.
PRODUCTS
Product sales underpin the growth in services,
and our product range is continually refreshed
to anticipate market requirements, reduce
footprint and improve energy efﬁciency. Sales
were up 33% (28% organic) at £182.8 million.
In 2007/2008, 73% of product sales came from
products introduced in the previous three years.
We have a healthy pipeline of new products and
anticipate product innovation continuing to be
an important driver of our growth in the current
and future years.
We introduced static transfer switches to
improve our tier 4 data centre capabilities,
90-NET products for the US market and,
in conjunction with DB Power, a new range
of Active ﬁlters for applications requiring
enhanced harmonic reduction.
Improvement in energy efﬁciency is a key
objective in new product designs, such as the
range of Power Lan models introduced during
the year. Chloride is the only UPS company
to participate in the EU Code of Conduct
to improve end-use energy efﬁciency in AC
uninterruptible power supplies. We also seek
to reduce energy wastage in the testing of
large systems, through an innovative process
in use at our large systems test facility in
Bologna, Italy where the energy used in
the test process is recovered and recycled,
resulting in minimum energy wastage.
We added to our software development
capabilities by setting up an additional R&D
centre in Pune, India. Operated by DB Power,
this state-of-the-art facility gives us access to
over 100 technology and software engineers and
is already making a signiﬁcant contribution to
our product development programme, especially
the development of the next generation
of control modules, which will keep our
technology at the forefront for large systems. 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 2: Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
A PROVEN
STRATEGY
We completed a joint venture agreement
with Phoenixtec Power Company, Taiwan,
to develop a high-quality, low-cost
manufacturing facility for large systems in
Shenzhen China. The venture is scheduled
to reach full production in the ﬁrst half of 2009,
and is expected to give us the beneﬁt of lower
transfer prices, as well as a 50% share of the
company’s proﬁts and a local source of supply
for our Asian markets.
We also have access to low-cost, high-quality
manufacturing facilities in DB Power, giving
further scope to reduce product costs.
CHLORIDE ACADEMY
Developing our knowledge base and training
our staff to the highest industry standards is
fundamental to our solutions approach. The
Chloride Academy educates students through
a combination of distance learning, practical
and residential courses to enhance skills and
spread best practice to the highest industry
standards throughout the Group. The Academy
has dedicated staff to uphold the standard of
training, and utilises the wealth of expertise in
the Company to develop course programmes
aligned to business objectives.
The Academy has recently celebrated its ﬁrst
anniversary and in its ﬁrst year has increased
the number of courses available. Accredited
training centres have been established at Group
facilities in Germany, Spain, the UK, Australia
and in our new facility in Singapore. In the ﬁrst
year of operation 130 employees successfully
completed 185 Academy courses, with further
expansion planned in the current year.
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
WESTERN EUROPE
This region now accounts for 63% of Group
sales, and we hold market leadership positions
in the UK, Italy, Spain and Germany. Overall
sales from Western Europe grew by 30%
with good performances in:
 the UK, where we are particularly strong
in data centres and the IT services sector.
We opened a custom-built facility in
Bedford with state-of-the-art training
facilities for staff and customers, and we
extended our ability to address the on and
offshore oil & gas and energy sectors with
the acquisition of Masterpower Electronics
Limited in March 2007 . Masterpower which
is based in Aberdeen, performed well
meeting our expectations for the year;
 Spain, where the acquisition of Cener
in 2006 has enhanced our large systems
and service capabilities, increased our
installed base and enabled us to build on
relationships with important customers
such as the El Corte Ingles chain of
department stores. The integration with
Chloride Spain was successfully completed
during the year, giving a uniﬁed approach
to the market. Spain is also an excellent
market for Chloride’s industrial systems,
where we have experienced signiﬁcant
growth in sales for industrial applications
during the year;
 Italy, where our sales and service
business continues to develop
long-standing relationships with its
customers in IT services, manufacturing,
telecoms, and healthcare; ANNUAL REPORT 2008 13
INVESTING
IN EUROPE & CENTRAL ASIA
SPAIN
We now have an integrated approach
to the Spanish market, where we
have important customers such
as the El Corte Inglés chain of
department stores.
UK
Masterpower Electronics expands
Chloride’s capabilities in the UK
oil & gas and energy market, with
blue-chip customers such as BP’s,
Grangemouth reﬁnery.
RUSSIA
The investment in Chloride Rus
increases our presence in Russia,
where we already have important
ﬁnancial services customers.
TURKEY
Chloride is market leader inTurkey,
and has established new operations
in the neighbouring territories of
Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, where
the oil, gas and energy sectors are
developing rapidly. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 2: Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
EXPANDING
IN ASIA PACIFIC
CHINA
The Chinese joint venture with
Phoenixtec Power Company is an
important step in our supply chain
management, giving us access to
low-cost, high-quality manufacturing.
AUSTRALIA
Chloride Australia is increasing its
business with important customers,
such as Nextgen Networks, the
specialist telecommunications carrier.
SINGAPORE
The acquisition of Ascor enabled
us to create our Chloride SE Asia
operation, with improved technical
service and support, and enhanced
training facilities in the region.
INDIA
The investment in DB Power
Electronics gives us access to the
buoyant Indian market and provides
an excellent technical support network
for our international and domstic
customers such as Dell, IBM, Reliance
Industries andTata Group. ANNUAL REPORT 2008 15
A PROVEN
STRATEGY
 Germany, where we made good progress,
particularly in IT services with prestigious
projects from blue-chip customers such as
E-Shelter, who selected Chloride to provide
the power protection for their data centre
in Frankfurt – the largest in Europe;
 France, where our industrial systems
business based in Lyon expanded sales
in the growing oil & gas and energy sectors
in Europe, the Middle East and Asia Paciﬁc.
This business had an excellent year,
and is well-placed to beneﬁt from
developments in this sector, including
prospects in renewable and nuclear
applications. We also invested in our sales
and service network, acquiring AST Services
Electronique SARL (ASTE) to improve our
multi-vendor service capacity; and
 Sweden, where we took a minority stake
in Eltek UPS, which allows us to launch
the Chloride brand in Scandinavia, with
the opportunity for Chloride to acquire
the business by 2010.
EASTERN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Sales in this region increased by 24% with
good performance from our businesses in
Turkey and Poland. We recently established
new businesses in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan,
building up our capabilities to address the
signiﬁcant potential in the oil & gas and
energy sectors.
In February we announced the creation
of Chloride Rus – a joint venture with our
long-standing partners in Russia. This extends
our secure power solutions capabilities and
improves access to opportunities in the
Russian market.
ASIA PACIFIC
Sales in Asia Paciﬁc were up 50%. Excellent
performance was achieved in Australia, where
our business won a number of excellent
product and service orders and in China,
where we focus our sales approach on large
multi-national companies. We secured
important contracts from blue-chip customers
such as Intel and Dow Corning as well as a
data centre project for the Beijing Olympics.
The strategic partnership with DB Power
Electronics, India continues to prove a major
success, giving us access to blue-chip
customers in a number of sectors including
Microsoft, Dell and IBM in IT services, HSBC,
Standard Chartered and Barclays in ﬁnancial
services, Tata and Reliance Industries in
energy and oil & gas, and Suzuki Textiles in
manufacturing. During the year we increased
our stake in DB Power to 32% – a key
investment to expand our position in the
dynamic Indian marketplace.
We acquired Ascor Power Systems Pte
Limited, Singapore early in the year, and
immediately created a state-of-the-art service
support and training centre there to reinforce
our high-quality technical, sales and service
capability in the region.
At the year end we opened a Chloride
representative ofﬁce in Vietnam as the
foundation for building our presence in this
high potential new market.
MIDDLE EAST`
We achieved exceptional growth in the Middle
East with sales up 78%, from many projects
in energy and oil & gas, IT services and in the
transport sector from airport projects including
those in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Jordan.
AMERICAS
Overall performance in the Americas was
disappointing, with sales up by only 4%,
due largely to our small products and power
conditioning business in the USA, where sales
were down by 4% (up 2% in local currency).
Our large systems business in the USA grew
by 7% (13% in local currency) and we made
good progress in Brazil and Mexico. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 2: Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
A PROVEN
STRATEGY
OTHER
We achieved good growth in a number
of other sectors, including leisure – where,
for example, we have supplied to the Beijing
Olympics, manufacturing – with successes
across the world, and medical – particularly
with hospitals and with equipment
manufacturers.
BUILDING MARKET SHARE
Chloride’s pace of growth again outstripped
the growth of the market, with sales up 31%
(25% organic) at £267 .6 million, set against
the Frost & Sullivan market growth forecast
of 13%.
Product sales were up 33% (28% organic)
at £182.8 million and services, which form an
important part of our total solutions approach,
were up 26% (19% organic) at £84.8 million.
Orders were also strong – well ahead of
sales and last year. We ﬁnished the year with
a record order book for products and services
(up £21 million to £102.4 million). This increase
was evenly spread across all territories
for both products and services, providing
a ﬁrm foundation for further growth in the
current year.
MARKET SECTORS
DATA CENTRES AND OTHER
IT INFRASTRUCTURE
In 2007/2008 we increased sales by 51%,
as the increasing requirement for data
processing and storage facilities powered
growth in this sector. Chloride is an
acknowledged leader in critical power services
for data centres in Europe, where the market
is forecast to grow by a CAGR of 12.5%
through to 2011 . Our expertise and reputation
in Europe was an important competitive
advantage in winning important orders for
data centres in Asia Paciﬁc, particularly India
and Singapore.
OIL & GAS AND ENERGY
Sales grew by 105%. High energy prices
and rising demand are driving investment
in upstream and downstream infrastructure
projects, especially in the Middle East and
Asia Paciﬁc. Chloride’s industrial systems are
engineered to withstand the most challenging
of climatic conditions and hostile electrical
environments, making them ideally suited
to applications in this high-growth sector.
The qualiﬁcation of our products for nuclear
applications means we are well positioned
for the re-emergence of nuclear power
generation in Europe and other parts of
the world.
The development of renewable energy
generation has also presented opportunities
for Chloride’s technologies and services, and
we look to win further business in renewables
as the sector gathers momentum.
CONSISTENT SALES GROWTH
AHEAD OF THE MARKET
+13%
MARKET
CHLORIDE
+31%
11%
8%
13%
31%
13%
14%
12%
18%
05 08 07 06
Market Chloride
SALES IN MARKET SECTORS
Service32%
Oil, gas and
energy17%
IT services8%
Other8%
Manufacturing7%
Telecoms7%
Financial services7%
Retail6%
Government4%
Transport4%
EUROPEAN DATA CENTRE MARKET FORECAST
07 11 10 09 08
+14.4%
+14.2%
+10.7%
+11.0%
+13.2%
12.5%
CAGR
2007-2011
 
Source: Frost & Sullivan ANNUAL REPORT 2008 17
SUCCEEDING
SUPPLIER OF CHOICE
Chloride is a supplier of choice
to blue-chip customers worldwide.
We are the largest power protection
supplier to Canary Wharf.
WIDE-RANGING
MARKET SECTORS
We operate in many market sectors,
including the growing renewable
energy sector.
GROWTH MARKETS
We are growing in geographic markets
where our total solutions offer real
competitive advantage. In China we
are supplying to the Beijing Olympics.
PROVEN STRATEGY
Chloride is successfully executing
its strategy for growth. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
Section 2: Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
DELIVERING
DELIVERING
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
FOCUSING DEVELOPING INVESTING
EXPANDING SUCCEEDING ANNUAL REPORT 2008 19
A PROVEN
STRATEGY
ROBUST BUSINESS MODEL
The operating margin increased by 2 points
to 13.5%, the sixth successive year of
improvement, as we leveraged the sales
and service network to increase revenue,
and secured cost reductions from the drive for
business efﬁciencies. This margin improvement
was achieved despite the negative impact
of commodity cost increases. We anticipate
further opportunities to improve the operating
margin in the future.
Operating cash conversion was 83%, after the
additional working capital required to support
the growth of the business, demonstrating
the quality of earnings and the cash-generative
nature of our business model.
PEOPLE
Chloride has some of the most experienced
people in our industry, generating over
£170,000 of sales per employee. We place a
high priority on nurturing talent and providing
career opportunities to enable employees
to develop their skills and provide excellent
service to customers. I would like to thank
my colleagues throughout the Group for their
commitment and support during my period
as Chief Executive. I hand over to Tim Cobbold
conﬁdent that we have the right people and
leadership for continued success.
OUTSTANDING PROSPECTS
Chloride operates in worldwide markets with
long-term underlying growth characteristics,
driven by our customers’ need for secure
electrical power to protect their mission-critical
applications from inadequate and unreliable
power supplies.
By focusing on the consistent execution
of our strategy, we have built strong positions
in high-growth international markets and
continually improved our technology and
services to meet the broad scope of our
customers’ requirements. These actions place
the Company in a leading position to beneﬁt
from attractive opportunities in the world’s
major and emerging economies.
We entered the new ﬁnancial year with a
record order book and a clear plan to meet
our growth objective. This gives us conﬁdence
in the outlook for the coming year and beyond.
We are well placed to build further momentum
for the beneﬁt of our shareholders, customers
and our people in the longer term.
Keith Hodgkinson
SALES PER EMPLOYEE
+13%
08 07 06 05
+8%
+13%
+5%
+14%
£170
THOUSAND
CONSISTENT INCREASES IN
OPERATING MARGIN
13.5%
+2pts
08 07 06 05
7.4%
13.5%
11.5%
9.8%
