 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2009
RESILIENT BUSINESS
Section 1: Overview
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
we increased our shareholding in DB
Power Electronics, India (DB) to 49%.
We now operate this business as a
subsidiary of the Group as we have
effective management control. Our
shareholding in DB will be increased
to 90% in July 2009. We acquired
Power & Electronic Services Limited
in Ireland to establish a presence
in this important market. In the UK,
we invested in our service business
by acquiring Siemens’ UK UPS service
activities and, shortly after the period
end, Malcolm Power Systems in
Scotland. We acquired Protech
Services to develop our service
capability in the USA. We expanded
our sales and service network with
new businesses and ofﬁces opened
in Russia, Kazakhstan, The Philippines
and Vietnam and, since the year end,
South Korea. In all cases we won
business rapidly.
Our manufacturing joint venture in
Shenzhen, China has developed quickly,
supplying new, upgraded products
to European and Asian markets.
This low cost facility will help to
underpin margins in a more competitive
environment. Product development
remained a focus. Our R&D teams now
include the DB capability, and many
new products were launched during
the year to maintain our technological
leadership position.
up 30% at £110.0 million. Adjusted
operating proﬁt increased by 29%
to £46.4 million (2008: £36.1 million).
Underlying sales growth in constant
currency was 10% and the operating
margin increased – for the seventh
successive year – by 0.7 points
to 14.2%.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax increased
by 31% to £43.7 million (2008:
£33.3 million), giving adjusted earnings
per share of 11.5p (2008: 9.5p),
an increase of 21%. Basic earnings
per share were 10.6p (2008: 10.0p).
Operating cash ﬂow was £43.0 million
(2008: £30.0 million), representing
93% of adjusted operating proﬁt,
despite an increase in stock and
debtors commensurate with the
growth of the business.
Net debt for the year was reduced
to £15.4 million (2008: £21.8 million)
as operating cash ﬂow was more than
sufﬁcient to fund acquisitions (including
further investment in DB Power
Electronics), capital expenditure,
dividend payments, tax and interest.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENT
We continued to make investments
to improve the geographic and market
sector balance of the business, and
to develop our market leading total
solutions offering. Most signiﬁcantly,
A RESILIENT BUSINESS
Despite a year of global economic
turbulence, Chloride has delivered
another year of growth in orders, sales,
proﬁts and cash. We continued to
concentrate on executing our proven
strategy and maintaining our focus
on those markets that offer long-term
growth potential. Cash and cost
management has been a priority
through 2008 and we ﬁnished the
ﬁnancial year with lower net debt
whilst maintaining investment in
people, in bolt-on acquisitions and
further development to the geographic
balance of the business. Signiﬁcantly,
the businesses outside our core market
of Western Europe generated more
than 43% of sales in the year.
The mission-critical importance of
reliable and high quality electrical
power is recognised by our blue-chip
customers, and this ongoing market
need, combined with our strong service
business, broad geographic spread
and excellent cash generation, provides
a sound basis to trade through more
turbulent times and positions Chloride
well to offer excellent growth potential
over the longer term.
KEY FINANCIALS
Total sales increased by 22% to
£326.7 million (2008: £267.6 million),
with product sales up 19% at
£216.7 million and service revenue
DESPITE A YEAR OF GLOBAL ECONOMIC TURBULENCE,
CHLORIDE HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER YEAR OF GROWTH
IN ORDERS, SALES, PROFITS AND CASH. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 5
Chloride, which has a robust business
model, supports mission critical
business systems and public
infrastructure. Despite the more
challenging environment, with robust
service revenues and cash generation,
and a strong balance sheet we expect
the Group to show resilience. Mindful
of this we continue to review carefully
all our markets and manage closely
our cost base.
We continue to execute our strategy,
with further careful investment in
higher growth potential markets and
sectors, and in the technology and
services that meet the demands of
our customers. Accordingly, we are
conﬁdent in the longer term prospects
for the business.
NORMAN BROADHURST
CHAIRMAN
dividend of 1.85p per share, gives a
dividend for the year of 4.7p per share
– an increase of 18% on the prior year.
Subject to shareholders’ approval at the
Annual General Meeting (AGM), the
ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 3 August
2009 to shareholders on the register
at close of business on 10 July 2009.
BALANCE SHEET STRENGTH
Chloride’s record of prudent balance
sheet management and strong cash
generation has served it well during
the exceptional upheaval in markets
during the last year. Cost control and
cash generation, together with close
management of the debt facilities,
were priorities for the business during
the year. We were able to successfully
renegotiate/replace, on sensible terms,
all expiring facilities. This focus on cash
generation allowed us to reduce net
debt signiﬁcantly and means that the
Company has more than sufﬁcient
headroom to continue investment
across the business.
OUTLOOK
Chloride operates in global markets
with robust long-term growth
characteristics, driven by increasing
Digitisation and rising Energy demand.
We enter the new ﬁnancial year with
an order book at record levels led by
Industrial Systems, but remain cautious
about the short term.
BOARD
Keith Hodgkinson, the Group’s former
Chief Executive who retired as a
director on 29 July 2008, ended his
consultancy arrangements with the
Group on 30 November 2008.
In December 2008 we announced the
addition of John Hughes to the Board
as a non-executive director. John is
Chairman of Spectris PLC, Telecity
Group PLC and Intec Telecom Systems
PLC. The Board will beneﬁt from his
extensive experience in the electronics,
data centre, and IT industries.
PEOPLE
Chloride’s people are at the heart of the
Group’s success and the service we
offer our customers. On behalf of the
Board I would like to thank them all for
another year of excellent performance.
The Chloride Academy, now in its
second year of operation, has gone from
strength to strength. The Academy
demonstrates Chloride’s commitment
to the training and development of its
people. I am also pleased that courses
are now being offered as part of the
services we provide to customers.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to propose
a ﬁnal dividend of 2.85p per share
(2008: 2.40p), reﬂecting our continued
conﬁdence in the Company’s long-term
prospects which, with the interim
+22%
TOTAL SALES INCREASED
TO £326.7 MILLION
(2008: £267.6 MILLION)
+29%
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
INCREASED TO £46.4 MILLION
(2008: £36.1 MILLION)
