 SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
Section 1: Overview
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE
Over the past year the world economic environment has presented the most
difﬁcult trading environment seen for more than 50 years. I am pleased to be
able to report that Chloride has performed resiliently; better than many other
industrial businesses and most of its major competitors. I am grateful to all
of Chloride’s people, each of whom responded professionally to the challenge
presented by the economic situation.
NORMAN BROADHURST CHAIRMAN
Mindful of the long-term growth prospects
for the business, we adopted a dual approach
in the face of a weak economic environment.
The ﬁrst element of this approach reﬂected
our short-term priorities of customers, cash
generation and cost control.
● The service business performed robustly,
as expected, and continued to grow as we
focused on maintaining excellent support
to customers in the prevailing economic
climate. The strength and robustness of
service revenues, together with good
growth in product sales into the Energy
& Infrastructure markets, helped mitigate
the effect of a marked weakness in
commercial markets caused by the poor
economic environment.
● Operating cash generation was strong and
consequently, together with the prudent
management of the balance sheet, gearing
remained low. With proactive management
offacilities,thebusinesstraded(andcontinues
to trade) with more than adequate
headroom throughout the period.
● Early in the year we instituted a
restructuring programme, cognisant of the
long-term growth potential of the business,
to reduce head ofﬁce and back ofﬁce costs
without affecting service to customers.
The manufacturing joint venture in China
continued to develop well and provided
a useful underpin to product margins in
a competitive market.
The second part of the approach, reﬂecting
our conﬁdence in the long-term growth
characteristics of our markets, was to continue
the strategic development of the business
and we made a number of carefully assessed
acquisitions, as a result of which the
business is now better positioned to grow
as markets recover.
The mission-critical importance of reliable and
high-quality electrical power is recognised by
our blue chip customers, and this fundamental
customer need underpins the demand for
Chloride’stechnologyandservicesandpositions
Chloride well to offer excellent growth potential
over the longer term.
KEY FINANCIALS
Total sales increased by 3% to £336.0 million
(2009: £326.7 million), (down 2% at constant
exchangerates(CER*))withproductsalesdown
3% and service revenue up13%. Adjusted
operating proﬁt* was down 4% (9% at CER)
to £44.7 million. The operating margin*,
reﬂecting the resilience of the business,
decreased by only 0.9% points to 13.3%.
The restructuring programme, the cost
of which was treated as exceptional,
cost £5.9 million and delivered savings
of £2.5 million in the current year, and will
deliver £3.8 million in a full year.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax fell by 5% to
£41.4 million (2009: £43.7 million), giving
adjusted earnings per share* of 11.0p (2009:
11.5p), a decrease of 4%. Basic earnings
per share were 7.7p (2009: 10.6p).
Adjusted operating cash ﬂow* was
£48.5 million (2009: £43.0 million),
representing 108% of adjusted operating
proﬁt*, despite an increase in stock associated
with the growth of the order book.
Netdebt*fortheyearincreasedto£41.0million
(2009: £15.4 million) after funding acquisitions
of £37.2 million, though operating cash ﬂow
was more than sufﬁcient to cover capital
expenditure, dividend payments, additional
pension obligations, tax and interest.
* SeeFinancialGlossaryonpage96. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 05
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
During the year we continued to invest in
the development of the Group to improve
the geographic and market sector balance
of the business.
Most signiﬁcantly we expanded our presence
in the Energy & Infrastructure sector with
three important acquisitions:
● In December 2009 we acquired
Automatismes Energie Electroniques
Systèmes SAS (“AEES”), a French-based
supplier of secure power solutions with
access to markets in the Middle East and
Russia as well as France. This business is
located in Lyon, France, as is our existing
business Chloride Industrial Systems,
which it complements well.
● In October 2009 the acquisition of
Emergency Power Systems PLC (“EPS”)
materially strengthened our presence
in the UK railway sector which we expect
to grow well in the future.
● In May 2009 we acquired Custom Power,
based in Houston, Texas, which provides
access to the North American Energy &
Infrastructure markets for the ﬁrst time.
Our expansion in Asia was enhanced by
a number of strategic actions:
● In India we acquired a further 41% of DB
Power Electronics (PVT) Ltd (“DB Power”)
to take our holding to 90%, improving our
position in the dynamic high-growth Indian
marketplace.
● We established our sales and service
business in Korea, and strengthened
our sales and service ofﬁces in Vietnam,
the Philippines, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan,
Azerbaijan, Turkey and the Middle East.
● In Hong Kong, in May 2009, we took
a 10% stake in Newtech Technology
Holdings Limited (“Newtech”) to improve
access to the Hong Kong and Chinese
data centre markets.
● In China our manufacturing joint venture
in Shenzhen progressed well reaching
the target margins despite lower than
target volumes.
In the UK we made two bolt-on service
acquisitions, strengthening our market-
leading presence.
The global R&D team successfully completed
the development of the innovative Trinergy
product. This was successfully launched during
the year and is proving attractive to customers.
BOARD
During a year of such general economic
uncertainty, the Board remained unchanged.
This stability, together with their excellent
understanding of the business, served the
Group well.
PEOPLE
On the Board’s behalf, I would like to thank
all of the employees for their hard work
and commitment in difﬁcult economic
circumstances that has, without doubt,
contributed to the resilience the Group
has demonstrated during the year.
I am pleased that the Chloride Academy
continued to develop during the year
demonstrating, despite the economic
conditions, Chloride’s commitment to the
training and development of its people.
During the year we agreed with the Pension
Trustees to cap the liabilities attached to the
pensions in payment within the UK deﬁned
beneﬁt scheme, at a cost of £2.4 million.
This was an important step in managing the
volatility in the Group’s UK pension obligations.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Chloride continued to manage its balance
sheet prudently whilst maintaining investment
in the business. Net debt rose, following the
strategic acquisitions made during the year,
though strong operating cash ﬂow more than
covered all other non-acquisition related cash
outﬂows, including interest, dividends and
tax payments.
We renegotiated/replaced all expiring credit
facilities at sensible market rates and the
business has more than sufﬁcient headroom
to sustain investment in the business.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to propose a ﬁnal dividend
of 3.30p per share (2009: 2.85p), reﬂecting our
continued conﬁdence in the Company’s long-
term prospects which, with the interim dividend
of 1.90p per share, gives a dividend for the year
of 5.20p per share – an increase of 11% on the
prior year. Subject to shareholders’ approval
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), the
ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 2 August 2010
to shareholders on the register at close
of business on 9 July 2010.
OUTLOOK
Chloride is a balanced business serving
international markets which have robust long-
term growth characteristics driven by growing
Energy demand and increasing Digitisation.
Looking to the year ahead, the Group is very
well positioned to beneﬁt from decisions
taken over the last two to three years and,
in particular, the measures taken to develop
the service business and reduce costs whilst
continuing with the strategic development of
the Group. Accordingly, the business ended
the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2010 with
stronger market better cost positions than
it started.
The Board now sees clear, positive signs in
both our end markets and order intake trends,
which together with a record opening order
book, provides the Board with conﬁdence in
the prospects for the Group for the year ahead.
Longer term, we will continue to execute our
provenstrategy,makefurthercarefulinvestments
to access high-growth potential markets, and
develop the technology and services that meet
the demands of our customers. Accordingly,
the Board is conﬁdent that the long-term
prospects for the Group are very attractive.
NORMAN BROADHURST CHAIRMAN
