 During some or all of the past year the majority of the world’s economies
have been in recession and this presented the most challenging economic
environment for business seen in over 50 years. Whilst Chloride was not
immune from these pressures, I am pleased to report that the Group has
proved to be more resilient than many other industrial businesses and
most of its major competitors.
Section 2: Operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
08 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
In the shorter term we chose to maintain
the focus on our customers, cash generation,
and the careful management of our cost base.
We continued to manage the balance sheet
prudently, keeping debt low and ensuring good
headroom with our committed bank facilities.
Notwithstanding the economic environment,
we remained conﬁdent of the long-term growth
characteristics of our markets so we chose to
continue to invest carefully in the long-term
development of the business in pursuit of our
objective of building a well-balanced secure
power business serving international markets.
By taking this dual approach, as well as
providing greater short-term resilience, we
have been able to ensure that the business is
better positioned to grow as markets improve.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
We made excellent progress towards our long-
term objective of building a well-balanced
secure power business serving international
markets. During the year, despite the poor
economic environment, important steps were
taken to continue the strategic development
of the business. These included:
● The acquisition of a further 41% of DB
Power in India to take our holding to 90%,
improving our position in this dynamic and
high-growth potential market.
● The establishment of a new business
in South Korea, with signiﬁcantorders
andsalesalreadyachieved.
● The acquisition of Custom Power in
Houston, Texas, to access the North
American Energy markets for the
ﬁrst time.
● The ﬁrst year of full production at our
manufacturing joint venture in Shenzhen,
China, which underpins product margins
on an important part of our product portfolio.
● A strategic investment in Newtech
Technology Holdings to improve access
to the Hong Kong and China data
centre markets.
● The acquisition of EPS which provides
specialised secure power solutions to
the UK rail industry.
● The acquisition of AEES a leading player
in the energy and infrastructure markets
operating in France and globally.
● Further investments to expand our sales
and service ofﬁces in the Philippines,
the Middle East, Vietnam, Kazakhstan,
Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkey.
Whilst Western Europe remains our core
market, we maintained the good progress
of recent years in increasing the exposure to
higher growth emerging economies. These
economies now account for 33% of sales,
and the Group will continue to seek to increase
its presence in economies which show higher
growth potential.
LONG-TERM GROWTH MARKETS
Despite the poor short-term economic
environment, we remain conﬁdent in the
long-term growth characteristics of the
Secure Power market we serve. Two very
signiﬁcant long-term global trends drive
growth in our markets:
DIGITISATION: the sustained growth in the
use of digital data and processing in nearly
all aspects of government, commercial and
leisure activity drives demand for secure
power solutions which protect mission-critical
processes and applications. This phenomenon
is as prevalent in emerging countries as it is
in the developed world.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
TIM COBBOLD CHIEF EXECUTIVE
