 06 
Chief Executive’s statement
Our business philosophy is to focus on 
what we know and do best. Years of 
experience serving leisure, retail and 
care clients have given us a profound 
understanding of the operational 
dynamics that govern these sectors  
As a result, our clients – and ultimately 
Christie Group stakeholders – gain the 
full benefit of our skills and expertise.
Adhering to our philosophy served us 
well in 2006. Our turnover rose by 12% 
from £77.5 million to £87.1 million. Equally 
encouraging, our total operating profit rose 
by 38% from £4.4 million to £6.1 million. 
Each of our three divisions – professional 
business services, software solutions and 
stock and inventory services – achieved 
material organic growth within our areas  
of business activity.
Consistent with our strategy, each division 
also worked to develop a portfolio of 
logically related pan-European services 
meeting the requirements that run 
throughout our clients’ business activities. 
During the year, we reinforced this 
continental platform with the opening of 
new offices in Marseilles and Dusseldorf. 
Now, we are better placed than ever in 
France and Germany and particularly well-
positioned to grow our hotel consultancy 
and retail stocktaking and software 
business in an enlarged European Union. 
As a result, our business risks and 
opportunities are diversified across a 
number of economies, industry sectors  
and types of service provision. Christie Group plc Annual Report 2006 07
Our investment policy has also proved 
to be successful. We continue to provide 
the requisite time, energy, expertise and 
people in all our businesses, and we have 
invested in new products and appropriate 
strategic alliances. An example of this 
is our partnership with the j apanese 
third-party IT service provider PBC. Also 
during 2006, we built on the success of 
existing partnerships with other leading 
third-party companies such as Capgemini, 
BearingPoint and LogicaCMG.
What we are not doing, however, is 
engaging in technological innovation for 
its own sake. That is not in our, or our 
customers’, interests. Instead, in 2006 we 
continued to ensure that our investment in 
research and development programmes 
was confined to creating new products and 
services that would give us a competitive 
edge in best meeting customers’ needs.
Looking ahead, while Christie Group 
“ EACH OF OUR THREE DIVISIONS... 
ACHIEVED MATERIAL ORGANIC 
GROWTH WITHIN OUR AREAS OF 
BUSINESS ACTIVITY.”
european expansion
Each of our divisions is 
developing a portfolio 
of logically related pan-
European services that 
run through our clients’ 
business activities. As 
a result, our business 
risks and opportunities 
are diversified across a 
number of economies, 
industry sectors and  
types of service provision.
l everaging our synergies
Our logically related 
services, skills and 
expertise are put to best 
use, especially when 
two or more of our 
companies combine their 
complementary skills for 
the benefit of our clients.
OUR st RAte GY FOR GROWt H
remains a market leader in the services  
we provide, the potential for growth 
remains significant. In each of our three 
divisions, we pursue a strategy for growth 
by accessing a wider geographical market 
for our products and services, and 
deliberately moving higher up the value 
chain - whilst maintaining our penetration 
of private clients’ requirements in our 
multi-domestic markets. Our client focus 
is often the requirement of the company or 
division in addition to that of the individual 
trading unit.
The arrival of financial buyers in our 
business environment increases our ability 
to provide services across the leisure, 
retail and care markets as such investors 
are catholic in the range of businesses 
they own. In each of our chosen sectors we 
see opportunities to serve a wider range of 
businesses without losing our sector focus. 
Examples include forecourt businesses, 
domiciliary care and event catering.
One of the challenges to sustainable growth 
is attracting and retaining the right people. 
In 2006 we made progress in this area, 
selectively expanding our staff while our 
profits for the same period rose by 38%. 
The productivity and professionalism of 
everyone in the group should be applauded.
Thanks to the efforts of Christie Group 
people, we are well-equipped to face  
the future. 
David Rugg
Chief Executive
Increasing our penetration 
of our core sectors
As the business 
environment within our 
specialist sectors matures, 
we see opportunities to 
serve a wider range of 
businesses without losing 
our sector focus. 
