 08
OUR EXPANSION IN EUROPE  
IS BASED ON CLIENT DEMAND 
AND MARKET OPPORTUNITIES 
ACROSS MULTIPLE NATIONAL 
ECONOMIES THROUGH OUR 
EXISTING PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES
In 2000, Christie Group acquired 
Groupe Timeless to complement 
Venners Computer Systems, its 
existing hospitality software business. 
Timeless specialises in software for 
integrated French fashion 
manufacturers and retailers.
The acquisition of Timeless was 
important in establishing a pan-
European presence for the group as 
a whole. Over the next few years VCS 
and Timeless were re-branded as 
VCSTIMELESS and expansion was 
accelerated as customers sought a 
single system with support across 
national boundaries. New offices were 
opened in Spain and Italy and, to date, 
VCSTIMELESS has provided systems to 
around 450 brands in over 20 European 
countries and others worldwide.
At the same time, the group’s platform 
on the continent was being extended 
through new Christie + Co offices. 
The first of these was Paris in 1998, 
followed by seven more in major cities 
across France, Germany and Spain.
In 2004, Christie + Co established its 
international consultancy service, 
operating in the hotel and care sectors. 
This multi-lingual team works with 
virtually all the major hotel operators 
and the leading investment and lending 
Chief Executive’s review
banks on a range of projects; such as 
feasibility studies and development, 
valuation and appraisal advice.
Christie + Co has gained a reputation for 
facilitating cross-border transactions, 
a perfect example of this collaborative 
approach being the Scotsman Group, 
which was sold in 2006. With offices in 
each of the hotels’ locations, Christie + 
Co was perfectly placed to handle this 
prestigious £63 million deal.
In 2002, Christie Group bought Orridge, 
another stocktaking company. Orridge 
specialises in retail and complements 
Venners’ work in the licensed sector. 
This acquisition took the group into 
Belgium where Orridge already had an 
office and from which it now serves 
clients in 13 countries on the continent.
Looking ahead into 2007, Christie  
Group will continue to expand in Europe. 
Orridge will open an office in the 
Netherlands to service its developing 
Dutch business, Christie + Co will 
extend its representation in Germany by 
opening in Hamburg and VCSTIMELESS 
intends to make Colombus more 
available in Central and Eastern Europe, 
thereby giving it the ability to generate 
further sales and gain new clients.  09
Europ Ean Expan SIon
Each of our divisions is developing 
a portfolio of logically related pan-
European services that run through  
our clients’ business activities.  
As a result, our business risks and 
opportunities are diversified across  
a number of economies, industry 
sectors and types of service provision. LEVEra GIn G our SYnEr GIES
Our logically related services, 
skills and expertise are put to best 
use, especially when two or more 
of our companies combine their 
complementary skills for the benefit  
of our clients.  11
WHEN TWO CHRISTIE GROUP 
COMPANIES PUT THEIR 
COMPLEMENTARy SKILLS 
TOGETHER FOR HILTON, 
SyNERGIES WERE THE RESULT
Together, Christie + Co and Venners 
were involved in the sale of two of 
Hilton Hotels Corporation’s biggest 
European assets, the Metropoles in 
London and Birmingham.
Christie + Co was instructed to market 
two of the largest and most prominent 
hotel properties in Europe; the 1,054-
bedroom Hilton London Metropole and 
the 794-bedroom Hilton Birmingham 
Metropole. The two hotels offered a 
truly exceptional investment opportunity, 
Hilton being a widely recognised brand 
and the market leader in the operation 
of large international convention hotels.
Christie + Co’s marketing included 
a series of presentations at various 
Hilton properties around the world.  
The hotels attracted considerable 
interest from a variety of investors 
– both UK and international – resulting 
in Christie + Co running a number of 
competitive bidding rounds. Bidders 
included private equity funds, UK  
and US property companies and  
many of Hilton’s current asset  
owners worldwide.
Following this considerable interest 
and the multi-stage bidding process, 
the properties were sold through 
Christie + Co to the Tonstate Group  
for £417 million, with Hilton retaining 
30-year management contracts on 
both hotels.
This successful sale and manage-
back transaction was the biggest deal 
ever brokered by Christie + Co in its 
71-year history, and was a measure 
of the scope of the work the company 
is called upon to undertake. It also 
confirmed Christie + Co’s growing 
reputation and its position as a leading 
advisor and transactional specialist in 
the corporate hotel market.
As part of the sale, the client called in 
Venners to compile full inventories of 
both hotels’ chattel assets – a huge 
task considering the scale of the two 
facilities. On the day of the completion 
itself, the inventories were meticulously 
checked and updated to meet the 
requirements of both the vendor  
and purchaser.
For the first time, the Venners 
inventory team used DVD technology, 
enabling instant updating in the final 
hours before the sale. Also on the 
day of completion, six stocktakers 
from Venners attended each hotel to 
value the stock in trade. They worked 
through each premises, adhering to  
an action plan carefully coordinated 
with colleagues at Christie + Co.
The result of the two Christie Group 
companies working together was  
a seamless service which benefited  
the client. 12 
 INCREASING PENETRATION 
OF OUR CORE SECTORS: NEW 
OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH  
NEW LETTINGS FOR PUNCH
In Cr EaSInG pEnETra TIon 
oF our Cor E SECTor S
As the business environment within  
our specialist sectors matures, we  
see opportunities to serve a wider  
range of businesses without losing  
our sector focus.
When punch Taverns, the uK’s leading 
pub company, decided to transfer over 
700 of its best managed houses to 
the leasehold market, they turned to 
Christie + Co to handle the deals. 
The project was a first for Christie + Co 
and the response involved an innovative 
approach. Historically, pub companies 
had let their pubs without charging a 
premium but Christie + Co suggested 
doing just that – seeking a premium 
for each pub, each one reflecting 
the property’s high quality – thereby 
maximising revenue for the client.
 
Christie + Co’s marketing efforts 
were aimed at that objective and the 
properties were made available in 
three tranches. Marketing included 
a series of professionally-produced 
brochures, a number of roadshow 
promotions, various e-marketing 
campaigns, extensive advertising  
Chief Executive’s review
and special features on both the  
Punch and Christie + Co websites.
 
Existing managers at the pubs 
to be leased were encouraged to 
consider the opportunities, as were 
retailers at other Punch outlets, and 
to maximise interest Christie + Co 
used its extensive, UK-wide database 
of applicants looking to buy a pub. To 
cover the financial aspects of acquiring 
the leases, Christie Finance was also 
involved in the marketing efforts.
 
By the end of the year, Christie + Co  
had let over 300 of the pubs concerned 
with a significant number of further 
deals in the pipeline and due to 
complete early in 2007. Based on this 
successful penetration of this part  
of the pub market, Christie + Co is now 
working with many other pub chains  
on the transfer of former managed 
houses into their leased estates.  13
