 4 Christie Group Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s statement
Recovery in sight
I am pleased to present our full year
results to 31 December 2009 against
the backdrop of an economic outlook
that is undoubtedly more buoyant than
when I posted our interim results in
August 2009. The first quarter of 2010
has started positively and we expect 
to see that momentum building
throughout the year .
As a result of prompt management action and cost
management measures put in place by the Board, the
operating loss for our second half to 31 December 2009
has reduced to £0.9m against a first half loss of £2.7m.
This makes a post tax loss for the year of £1.9m on
turnover of £47.1m (2008: £63.4m for continuing
businesses). The losses were funded from our own
cash resources, as a result of which, we finished the
year with no net borrowings and cash of £1.7m.
Our operating costs for the year amounted to £50.7m,
(prior year £68.1m). Of this reduction, £15.1m was
saved by our Professional Business Services Division,
which reduced costs by 35.7% over the prior year . Of the
operating costs, £0.9m of the 2009 costs relate to
depreciation (net of capital expenditure), amortisation,
share schemes and other non-cash charges.
An achievement for which I think we can be justifiably
proud is to have traded through the recession while
incurring no net debt. There has been no requirement
therefore for fund raising or other measures.
There are certain benefits to be gained from a
recession, one of which is that other firms go back to
their areas of traditional competence. Ours is the only
firm with 24 offices specialising in business sales
(hospitality, retail, care) and we now find that from a
competitive viewpoint we are trading in a less crowded
marketplace. Our valuations benefit from an in-depth
knowledge of market and price trends achieved through
combining our extensive transaction data on completed
sales with our visibility of current offers and
acceptances in our transaction pipeline.
We believe that, for us, a year of recession bottomed 
in May 2009, since which point we have seen stable
income. It is rare for transactions to be fully cash
funded and therefore the availability of credit on
commercial terms is a crucial driver for many of the
transactions that we are engaged with. Initiatives are in
place through a number of the commercial lenders to
bolster the supply of credit to smaller businesses
through the Enterprise Finance Guarantee Scheme
and by providing access to European Investment
Bank funding.
2010 has started positively. Activity levels have been
good, since we emerged from the snow and ice early 
in the New Year, and margins have held up well. Our
market position is strong as are our relationships with
the banks and business introducers. 
I believe that once the general election is behind us, we
will experience a continuing recovery supported by an
improved broader economic sentiment. Reflecting our
confidence in the future it is our intention to resume
dividend payments assuming a sustained recovery.
I extend my thanks particularly to our Finance Director,
Robert Zenker, who has been our capable financial
steward for the past 16 years. We wish him well for the
future. I would like to thank all our staff who have risen
magnificently to a challenging market.
Philip Gwyn
26 March 2010
Nick Holland-Brown
We were saddened to learn of the recent death of 
Nick Holland-Brown, former Chairman of Orridge. 
Nick joined the family business at the age of 22 and
developed the Orridge pharmaceutical stocktaking
practice into the UK's premier retail stocktaking
business, which Nick afforded us the opportunity to
acquire as he felt we were the right home. Nick
retained ownership of Orridge Business Sales,
specialising in pharmacy sales, which is still operated
by his son, Simon. Nick was a charming bon viveur,
raconteur and gentleman whom we shall miss.
2478 Christie Group 09AR_Rev_8  21/04/2010  17:27  Page 4 Brand 
strength and
endurance 
International
development
Financial
stability
Flexible
approach
Focused
and clear
direction
Operational
efficiency
Our strategy for resilience Key drivers
Focusing rigorously 
on our core sectors 
We maintain a rigorous focus on
strengthening our capabilities within our
core sectors. This disciplined approach
aligns our activities with clients’ interests
and creates more opportunities to extend
our services and broaden our client base.
Developing in Europe
Our divisions provide portfolios of
interconnected services to facilitate our
clients’ business activities in the UK 
and Continental Europe. Our risks and
opportunities are increasingly diversified
across economies, industry sectors and
the services we offer .
Maximising our synergies
Individually, our companies acquire 
in-depth understanding in their chosen
markets. Together, they have the
resources to deliver services and skills
which are highly complementary. They 
add more value when they combine their
strengths on behalf of our clients.
Flexible approach
We aim for flexibility in the way we meet 
our clients’ needs. In these changing and
challenging times, we consider one of our
“core competencies” to be the ability to flex
our resources to meet the varying levels of
demand in the marketplace.
Christie Group Annual Report 2009 5
2478 Christie Group 09AR_Rev_8  21/04/2010  17:28  Page 5
