 6 Christie Group Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s statement
We entered 2010 in good shape with
the upturn in activity maintained 
and with the full benefit of the cost
reductions implemented during the
first half of 2009. Time will tell
whether the momentum of recovery
will be sustained, but the outlook
today is certainly a good deal more
positive than at this time last year . 
We are well positioned to take full
advantage of the recovery.
Our markets
Our client base is largely the same across each of our
sectors – leisure, retail and care – and our ability to take
advantage of the synergy benefits of cross-selling more
than one Group service to each of our businesses'
clients has a marked positive effect on revenues and
profitability. There are approximately a quarter of a
million businesses in Christie Group’s specialist sectors
in the UK. Our aim is to create value for shareholders
from each stage in the cycle of small and medium-sized
enterprise (SME) ownership; represented by acquisition,
funding, business development, stock control, insurance
and disposal. The services offered by the Group touch
each of these vital business disciplines and our 
success over the years is demonstrated by both the
overall size of our client base and the substantial
proportion of repeat business from entrepreneurs,
funders and advisers.
We own perhaps the best known brands in our chosen
sectors for the size of the businesses we target. This
means that we are almost always considered for
appointment when a suitable business requires one of
the services we provide. The resulting active client base
is diversified by geography, sector, stage of development
and thus by risk.
Our businesses
Against the economic background outlined above, the
Group's financial performance in 2009 represented a
creditable achievement. Costs were contained or
reduced across the board and a renewed emphasis on
gaining new and realistic mandates instilled. Two of our
three core sectors – leisure and retail – were hit hard by
the downturn in consumer spending and it was only in
the last quarter of the year that prices of businesses 
in these areas reduced sufficiently to tempt in
opportunistic buyers. Our third sector, care, stood up
much better in terms of prices as a result of its longer
term revenues from government but even here,
transaction levels reduced substantially, largely as 
a result of the restricted availability of bank financing, 
a factor which continues to affect SMEs in the 
UK economy.
Professional Business Services 
This division had to cope with a precipitous fall in
transaction prices. Depending on the sector, we
calculate this to have been between 16% and 34%
(average of 27% across our sectors) from peak to trough
in early 2009 and an almost complete cessation of
voluntary transactions; that is now beginning to recover .
The first signs of this recovery became apparent at the
end of 2009 when the first distressed sales of assets and
businesses by corporates came on to the market. The
response was surprisingly quick. Buyers with cash or
access to cash took advantage of low prices and began
to compete for assets, having apparently waited on the
sidelines for purchases to become available at prices
they considered reasonable.
The absence of pre-credit crunch levels of debt
availability has led to a much stronger equity base –
some 60% – behind property-based business
acquisitions. We believe funding will remain in short
supply as the heavy schedule of loan maturities for
banks begins to bite. There are, however, new lenders
beginning to take up some of the demand and this,
together with an increase in the number of enquiries
from potential buyers, is a positive sign.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services 
The trading environment has presented opportunities as
well as issues for the businesses in this division. With
working capital facilities under pressure, tight control of
stock has become vital. Retailers now operate seven
days a week on an efficient staff headcount. As a result,
more and more functions are outsourced and our
businesses in this area have benefited accordingly.
Lower consumer spend, leading to pressure on margins,
has also focused retailers' attention on 'just-in-time'
availability counts to reduce stock levels and on the
services we offer to control fraud, theft and shrinkage.
Consequently, we plan to raise capital expenditure in
this division in 2010 to take advantage of these trends
and to capitalise on the increased operating margins
now available to us. We currently have a significant
pipeline of new work and, given the current economic
environment, a ready supply of potential staff.
With key software developments completed in 2009,
including on-line ticketing, Vennersys now offers the
leading system for visitor attractions in the UK.
Well positioned for the future
During what proved to be a difficult 2009, the business
demonstrated both its resilience and financial strength.
Resilience because of our volume of customers and
2478 Christie Group 09AR_Rev_8  21/04/2010  17:28  Page 6 Our specialist market sectors
Hotels
Public Houses
Bars
Restaurants
Takeaways
Sports Centres
Fitness Centres
Cinemas
Entertainment Venues
Nightclubs
Gaming and Betting Businesses
Visitor Attractions
Destination Resorts
Serviced Accommodation
Caravan Parks
Holiday Parks
Guesthouses
Railways
Currency Bureaux
Event Caterers
Bowling Alleys and Greens
Care
Supermarkets
Convenience Stores
Newsagents
Booksellers
Off-licences
Post Offices
Warehouses
Supply Chain Premises
Professional Practices
Forecourt Businesses
Specialist Shops
Pharmacies
Retail
Leisure
Residential Care Homes
Nursing Homes
Hospitals
Surgeries
Daycare Centres
Childcare Centres
Schools
Colleges
Close Care/Assisted Living Centres
Secure Units
Dental Practices and Doctors’ Surgeries
Domiciliary Care Businesses
Animal Businesses
clients across our markets and strength by the fact that
we are one of the very few companies in the property
services sector that has not had to call on its
shareholders to provide additional equity funds.
The breadth, depth and longevity of the Group
demonstrates to clients and potential clients that we
represent a skilled and experienced practitioner that
can be trusted to help them realise value from their
businesses at every stage of the business cycle. We have
reduced costs, improved efficiency and focused on our
cross-selling activity during the last year . Clients enjoy
access to senior, experienced practitioners, which
provides us with both a competitive advantage and
client loyalty.
Distressed businesses are providing much of our
current pipeline of activity and are creating almost
unprecedented opportunities for entrepreneurs. We
believe the normal cycle is restarting – but this time
from a more financially sound base after business
owners have deleveraged. We are confident that 2010
will mark a return to growth for the Group.
David Rugg
26 March 2010
Christie Group Annual Report 2009 7
2478 Christie Group 09AR_Rev_8  21/04/2010  17:28  Page 7 Brand strength and endurance...
the result of long experience and
market leadership. 
8 Christie Group Annual Report 2009
2478 Christie Group 09AR_Rev_8  21/04/2010  17:28  Page 8
