 6 Christie Group Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive’s review
Christie Group performed strongly in the year under
review. We had already demonstrated our resilience in the
downturn, and during 2010 we proved we could operate
effectively on a lower cost base. We are now operating in a
marketplace where specialist skills are highly prized: we
are well-positioned, and poised for growth.
I am delighted to report that, as predicted last year,
the Group has returned to profitability. This is a real
achievement, the result of a lot of hard work and
dedication from people at all levels of the business.
They have risen to the challenge. It is testament to the
quality of the people we have in the Group.
Strength in depth
Our business model emphasises the importance of
specialist knowledge. We succeed by understanding
our chosen sectors in depth and by delivering highly
relevant services.
The Group is balanced and highly diversified. We have low
gearing. As an asset-light business, we are cautious about
unnecessary gearing. Our profile limits our exposure to
any specific risk. Risk is spread by our range of services,
the number of clients, our geographical reach and the
complementary nature of the sectors in which we operate.
We are active in three sectors, each of which has different
performance characteristics across the economic cycle.
The leisure sector is highly geared to economic activity,
retail has a moderate positive correlation and the care
sector is normally relatively unaffected.
In each of our sectors, we focus primarily on small and
medium enterprises (SMEs), of which there are a quarter
of a million in the UK. We aim to create shareholder value
by offering them services that add value across the
business cycle: from the acquisition of a new business,
through day-to-day management, further development
and to eventual sale.
Our aim is to grow and harness the global reach of our
brands. Our stocktaking businesses are focused on
increasing their pan-European penetration and our new
Christie + Co offices in Vienna and Dubai will act as
springboards to Central and Eastern Europe and the
Middle East respectively.
Our markets
Over the past two years we have endured a deep
recession, comparable to our previous experience.
In 2008 and 2009, as with previous recessions, it was
necessary to manage our businesses around a rapid
decline in property prices and activity.
Our evidence now suggests that we have passed the
bottom of the cycle. In 2010, property prices stabilised
and volumes across our Professional Business Services
companies began to recover .
When the going gets tough, experience counts for
even more. We’re fortunate that our top managers
have been through this cycle before. We saw the
downturn coming and we were prepared. We acted
in good time to avoid any long-term, negative effects
on the business.
As volumes fell, we were able to reduce our cost base
without compromising core capabilities. The Group is
leaner and fitter as a result of these cost reduction
measures.
Future savings are likely to be incremental, offset by
investment for growth. As a business we have the benefit
of experienced, high quality people. Many of the Group’s
senior staff have worked together for a long time to
create the businesses we now have. The main focus now
will be on growth and income generation.
We have outperformed many of our peers. In the majority
of our businesses we increased market share while less
committed competitors scaled back or withdrew from
these markets.
Our businesses
Our two divisions concentrate respectively on assets and
operating efficiency. The Group’s businesses provide over
40 separate services, covering all stages of the business
cycle. With many transactions and numerous customers,
our overall performance is not reliant on any individual
transaction or customer .
Professional Business Services
Property prices stabilised in our sectors in 2010. As it
became more apparent that this stability was being
sustained, confidence built up and buyers began to
return. Many were small-scale local entrepreneurs.
There was more activity around distressed businesses.
This was matched by a shift in market dynamics. More
instructions are coming directly from lenders.
We are finding that our depth of expertise is better
appreciated in the market. As trading conditions become
more challenging, company owners and lenders want to
deal with people who fully understand their businesses.
We’re increasingly being asked to make judgments on the
quality of a business’s management, the appropriateness
of its brand and trading style, its market positioning and
its potential – rather than simply provide asset valuations.
I am delighted to advise that the authoritative Estates
Gazette announced Christie + Co as the clear winner for
2010 in its newly created Leisure & Hotels category as
the UK’s most active agent based on deals completed.
Our finance brokerage has been growing fee income both
by developing its own contacts and through internal
introductions. Our insurance brokerage is winning repeat
business by sourcing lower premiums and providing a
higher level of service to its client base.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services
The fiercely competitive trading environment has focused
minds on effective cost control. There have been
opportunities as well as challenges for the businesses in
this division.
However, we are building on our strengths and bringing
the benefits of technology and proven operating systems
to major retailers, who are increasingly mindful of the
importance of just-in-time availability. They rely on
independent stocktakers to alert them to delivery and
production needs. They are also only too aware of the
cost of stock shrinkage and fraud. When margins are
tight these become pressing issues for business owners.
We are benefiting from this change of emphasis and have
added some major new customers.
In the wider UK licensed trade, the wave of insolvencies
has hit turnover . The hospitality sector has begun to
recover from the collapse in activity in 2009, but is not yet
back to pre-crunch levels.
