 4 Christie Group Annual Report 2010
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that the return to profit reported
in my interim statement continued for our second half.
It gives me particular pleasure to say that the Continental
European operations of our Professional Business
Services Division reported a profit for the first time.
More detail is provided below.
Revenue for the period was £48.9m (2009: £47.1m), an
improvement of 3.9%, which, when combined with our
sustained cost control, resulted in an operating profit of
£1.0m. To put that into perspective, operating costs were
£47.9m (2009: £50.7m), a decrease of 5.6% on 2009 and
27.6% down from the peak in 2008 while operating profits
of £1.0m represent a positive swing of £4.7m from the
loss of £3.7m reported in 2009.
The Board’s strategy of timely cost reduction, whilst
protecting our range of services and capacity, has
enabled Christie Group to exploit a number of new
opportunities which have arisen from the more recent
stabilised trading environment.
Christie Group is well-positioned to take advantage of
the improving trading conditions. We ended the year with
no net debt and cash in hand.
Professional Business Services (PBS)
PBS has built on a strong first half performance to
deliver a full year operating profit of £1.5m (2009: £3.9m
loss), a £5.4m improvement. Revenue for the division
totalled £26.5m (2009: £23.3m).
A particular highlight has been the contribution made by
our international operation which supports the decision
taken 13 years ago to build an international transaction
and advisory business in Christie + Co. Our investment
has created an infrastructure of 10 offices across
Continental Europe and an inaugural profit in 2010.
During the year we established a presence in Austria and
are now pleased to announce the opening of an office in
Dubai. This further extends the territory where Christie +
Co can offer clients a seamless service, with offices also
located in France, Germany, Spain and Finland.
Encouragingly, we are witnessing an increase in cross
border deal flow reflecting the global interests of our
clients and the investor community.
In the UK, our business mortgages operation has enjoyed
a record year and the Government’s Project Merlin
initiative will, we hope, provide further impetus for 2011.
Our insurance business has operated in an environment
of intense premium pressure and we have therefore
taken the initiative to create a decentralised sales
function based in East Anglia, which will benefit from a
lower cost base whilst still enjoying easy access to the
London insurance market.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services (SISS)
Our businesses in the SISS division felt the impact of
the recession later as clients sought to destock and
reduce their stocktaking requirements; a trend which
has now started to reverse with a return to more regular
audit patterns.
Despite this, revenue for the year fell 5.9% to £22.4m
(2009: £23.8m), generating an operating profit for the year
of £0.3m (2009: £0.5m).
SISS experienced lost working days in both November
and December due to snow. Whilst this had a direct
impact on the 2010 results, it has resulted in the division
working at full stretch in January to catch up on these
delayed assignments.
In Europe, we have successfully consolidated our
operations in Brussels and installed new local
management. In the final quarter of 2010, the operation
returned to profitability. Our client offering across the UK
and European operations has attracted significant new
business for 2011 from pan-European retailers.
Our visitor attraction system added Arundel Castle and
Blue Reef Aquarium to its user base in the second half.
We also signed Landmark Cinemas, the third largest
chain in Canada, as the latest customer for our
distributed cinema system.
Outlook
Price stability has now returned to the business sectors
in which we operate, with asset prices showing
improvements across most sectors. Buyer confidence
has translated into an increase in transaction income,
with 2010 UK transaction revenues showing a 21%
increase on 2009.
We are seeing the emergence and re-emergence of
lenders to our sectors and, with continued low interest
rates, businesses are eminently affordable where funding
is available.
For overseas investors, the weakness of sterling
continues to make UK assets attractive. Through our
network of offices, we believe that Christie Group is
uniquely positioned to facilitate these transactions.
Our stocktaking businesses hold an optimistic outlook
for 2011 and beyond.
Momentum in both our divisions has carried over from
2010 into 2011. Whilst it is too early to predict with a high
degree of certainty the road to recovery, it is clear that the
quality of our staff will dictate the success of Christie
Group in years to come.
I must thank my colleagues who have done an excellent
job in difficult circumstances and extend a warm welcome
to the bright young talent we have joining their ranks.
Michael Likierman has, at the age of 70 and after serving
more than 9 years as a Non-executive Director, decided
to retire from your board at our forthcoming AGM in June.
Michael’s perceptive grasp and knowledge of our markets
internationally has been a great help to us and we thank
him and wish him well for the future.
We believe 2011 will mark further progress for our Group.
We therefore propose to reinstate a dividend of 1p per
share, and we will review again at the end of the current
financial year .
Philip Gwyn
28 March 2011
