 Christie Group’s strong revenue growth demonstrates
a growing business with a sustained ability to deliver
premium levels of client service. Given the prevailing
economic climate this was a pleasing result and 
is testament to the underlying strength of our
business model.
The Christie brand stands for in-depth, informed
business intelligence. In tough times, proven expertise
is in demand, and this plays to our strengths.
A balanced business
We are a balanced, diversified organisation. Our
services add value at every stage in the lifecycle
of a business, from start-up, through day-to-day
operations, all the way to an eventual sale. We focus
on three broad sectors – retail, care and leisure –
where we have significant, in-depth knowledge.
Christie Group's portfolio of complementary
companies matches a range of business
requirements. The Group's two divisions each account
for approximately half of total revenue. Professional
Business Services focuses on assets and transactions.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services is concerned
with operational efficiency.
Limiting exposure 
We have built a naturally resilient organisation by
spreading our exposure. We limit our risk to specific
clients and sectors, and through our broad 
geographic reach.
Leading UK and international businesses are the most
significant in value terms. The majority of our clients
are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). 
For transactional business and consultancy work,
banks and administrators are increasingly important.
We are careful to avoid over-reliance on any one client.
This approach is more than merely theoretical. We turn
down unprofitable business and seek to avoid an
over-reliance on any single contract or client.
Each of our three main sectors relates to the
economic cycle differently. In leisure, the economic
climate has a marked impact on performance. There
is a link too with the retail sector, but it is less direct.
Our third major sector, care, is largely unaffected by
what happens in the wider economy.
International operations
Our international network is helping us attract larger
clients and win transnational contracts.
We build strong networks by focusing on deepening
coverage as well as extending our reach. Christie +
Co’s new Lyon office is its fourth covering France 
while the new office in Vienna extends its influence
eastwards and also links back to the German network.
Furthermore, the newly-opened Christie + Co off ice in
Dubai will attract new investors and entrepreneurs in
a region with a strong heritage in leisure and hospitality.
Orridge now coordinates activities in 18 European
countries from its central base in Belgium.
High quality clients
We gained a succession of prestige clients and
assignments during the year . High-profile wins
included stocktaking contracts for BHS and Zara.
Christie + Co handled the politically sensitive sale of
Southern Cross freeholds, and several Christie Group
companies were involved in the disposal of von Essen
Hotels’ 26 UK country house hotels for the
administrators.
Chief Executive’s review
8 Christie Group Annual Report 2011
Christie Group’s strong
revenue growth demonstrates
a growing business with 
a sustained ability to 
deliver premium levels 
of client service. Christie Group Annual Report 2011 9
Focused and 
clear direction
Complementary
Our services mirror the
evolving needs of businesses 
in our sector . We provide
professional services to meet
many of their commercial
requirements – from 
start-up through to sale.
Connected 
We invest in technology to 
stay close to customers and 
in touch with each other – 
via our international network,
online and on the move.
Cross-selling
We benefit from and build 
on each other’s strengths. 
We present customers with 
a wide range of services – 
from right across the Group.  10 Christie Group Annual Report 2011
Complementary 
capabilities enhance 
our trading resilience Stock & Inventory Systems & Services 
When margins are under pressure it focuses
managers' minds on costs. They know that rigorous
stock control can help streamline supply chains,
protect against fraud and squeeze as much value as
possible out of every single asset.
Increasingly, retailers are opting for outsourcing as
the best way to guarantee quality and objectivity. This
is good news for our highly respected stocktaking
businesses. The pipeline for our retail business at the
end of 2011 had increased significantly compared to
December 2010.
Both companies gained important new clients during
the year . Our stocktaking businesses tend to have
strong client retention rates, but incur high initial costs.
There is an acclimatisation period as we harmonise
systems and adapt to each customer's processes.
We are investing in systems and training to service
this extra demand. Venners, for example, spent £0.2m
more than budgeted on training additional
stocktakers. We are confident that these costs will be
quickly recouped.
Professional Business Services 
Transactional activity was inevitably affected by the
global economic crisis. The economic uncertainty kept
voluntary sellers away while distressed asset sales
dominated activity.
A dearth of transactions in the first half of the year
was balanced by improved fee income in the second
six months. We won accolades from industry peers.
The Estates Gazette named Christie + Co as both
Property Adviser of The Year – Leisure and the most
active agent in the leisure and hotel sector .
At the end of 2010 it had seemed probable that
property prices had plateaued. Twelve months on,
however, the picture looked very different. In
retrospect, the stabilisation in 2010 was a pause for
breath on a continued downward trajectory.
But it is important to recognise that, even at today's
values, businesses are selling at multiples that were
commonplace in the 1990s. These are not
unprecedented levels and we are confident we can
operate successfully in a low-growth environment.
In this generally subdued marketplace larger groups
featured more prominently. Some were forced to scale
down their portfolios to meet lenders' lower
loan-to-value refinancing requirements. Others
wanted to release capital to maintain and upgrade
their core facilities.
For cash buyers wishing to build asset portfolios these
were excellent conditions. We saw entrepreneurs 
who had sold their businesses at peak levels return 
to the market to acquire opportunities at substantial
discounts.
The emergence of new sources of finance was a
positive development. Many traditional lenders are
constrained by their existing loan books. Recent
arrivals in the markets have no such limitations. With
property prices approaching historically low levels, they
have the chance to build up high quality loan books.
Liquidity in the commercial debt markets has
remained an issue. However, with initiatives such as
the introduction of the Government’s loan guarantee
scheme announced in the Budget on 21 March 2012,
we are hopeful that this may start to ease.
Christie Group Annual Report 2011 11
Chief Executive’s review
Continued
As the going got tough
banks and owners 
came to us for specialist
advice. They wanted 
to reshape portfolios,
dispose of poorly
performing units, review
strategy, refinance and
restructure. 12 Christie Group Annual Report 2011
Our valuation and advisory businesses were in
demand. Our specialist-based approach to valuation
has been adopted as best practice. Our valuation
professionals are Royal Institute of Chartered
Surveyors qualified specialists. Early in the year the
RICS introduced a licensing system requiring valuation
professionals to register their specialist area of
expertise. The new system will benefit us and
improve standards for customers.
As the going got tough banks and owners came to us
for specialist advice. They wanted to reshape portfolios,
dispose of poorly performing units, review strategy,
refinance and restructure.
Our finance business helped match new lenders with
high quality borrowers. Our insurance business
maintained its high client retention rate and benefitted
from rising premiums.
Connecting with customers - and each other
These days, much of our intellectual property is vested
in technology. Our customers expect to find more
information online. The ubiquity of smartphones,
tablets and 3G connectivity has been another
game-changer . We now live in an always-online
culture. Real-time information is available everywhere,
at the touch of a button.
With many of our staff spending a lot of their time in
the field, we saw the value of mobile communications
early on. Our retail stocktakers use tablet technology
to record, report and analyse stock levels while
Christie + Co launched a mobile-friendly version of 
its website. We are also developing technologies to
make our people more productive on the move and
strengthen customer relationships. For example, 
we increasingly use more targeted marketing to
produce better results and social media to
supplement traditional communication channels.
Relocation
I am pleased to advise that the Group’s pension 
funds have acquired a dedicated new head office 
for our occupation in the City of London. We look
forward to improved efficiency through combining 
our two separate existing London offices in this
permanent home.
Looking ahead
I said last year that the economy faced setbacks 
on the road to recovery. These have come sooner
rather than later and, so far at least, have been more
significant than one might have hoped. But, having
been spared any pre-Christmas adverse weather,
activity levels in the early part of 2012 are improved
compared with those in 2011.
Whatever the prospects for the economy, Christie
Group is in a strong position. We have a manageable
cost base and are investing in both systems and
people to meet additional demand. We have a 
strong track record, a proven business model and 
a lengthening list of prestige clients. We are never
complacent, but we do share confidence in the future.
David Rugg
3 April 2012
Chief Executive’s review
Continued
Christie Group is in a 
strong position. We have 
a manageable cost base
and are investing in both
systems and people to 
meet additional demand. Connected with clients
wherever they are, 
whenever they need us 
Christie Group Annual Report 2011 13
