 We believe that our market
position is key to maximising
the opportunities presented 
by both the recovering market
on one hand and one showing
signs of distress on the other . 
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to present these results, which despite
difficult markets in 2011, demonstrate progress in your
business. My trading update of 5th December 2011
referred to a number of transactions that had been
delayed by external factors and the subsequent effect 
on the results for the year . Despite the timing of these
specific deals, the reliability of our operations and the
depth of our expertise continue to be attractive to those
looking for professional support in difficult times, 
which puts Christie Group in a strong position in its
chosen markets.
Financial turmoil in the Eurozone and political instability
in the Middle East ultimately curtailed our profitability in
the second half of the year, albeit a healthy increase in
top line revenue was achieved across the year .
Revenue for the year was £53.3m (2010: £48.9m) an
increase of 9.0%. After exceptional items, operating
profits were £0.3m (2010: £1.0m) reflecting the
significant investment made in bringing new client
contracts on stream and opening the new office in
Dubai. Our high tax charge is a non cash item which
principally reflects the reduction in the carrying value 
of our deferred tax asset following the reduction in the
UK corporation tax rate.
The cost base rose in 2011 in line with our expectations
and our continued commitment to investing in the
business. This investment has been rewarded through
new client wins and ‘approved adviser’ panel
appointments, ensuring that we remain at the forefront
of our industry. Cash flow requirements have followed
the increased business generation and therefore show 
a reduction in cash balances.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services (SISS) 
Tough trading conditions amplify the need for
understanding the margins within a client’s business
and maintaining tight control over stock. This remains 
a detail-oriented business where the experience of 
our loyal staff benefits clients through the incisive 
nature of the reports generated from the stock audits. 
The integrity of the process and the subsequent profit
enhancement are all the more appreciated at a time
when profits are hard to come by in the first place.
Revenue was £25.9m (2010: £22.4m) with growth seen
across all companies; Orridge, Venners and Vennersys.
SISS is now delivering management information to its
clients which directly contributes to their strategic
business planning. This degree of granular information
and added value is unique and significantly valued by
Christie Group’s clients.  New clients won in 2011
included Zara, Hobbycraft, Butlins, Tesco Pharmacy,
BHS, Cairn Hotel Group, Park Resorts, Mecca and 
Murrayfield Stadium.
Professional Business Services (PBS)
Our PBS division had a creditable 2011 despite what could
be considered a ‘year of two halves’ where, as referred to
above, the Eurozone and Middle East problems affected
UK market confidence in the second half.
Revenue for the year stood at £27.4m (2010: £26.5m).
Quality assets and deals funded by cash were transacted
with far greater ease than tired assets or those requiring
significant bank support.
New clients won in the period included Southern Cross
and von Essen Hotels (in Administration); with notable
instructions from existing clients such as Punch
2 Christie Group Annual Report 2011 Taverns, Enterprise Inns, Admiral Taverns and the
Scottish & Newcastle Pub Company.
Christie Insurance benefited from its enlarged office 
in Ipswich working alongside the London-based team,
whilst on an increasing number of occasions, Christie
Finance incorporated European Investment Banking
support for clients’ deals and successfully arranged it 
in tandem with mainstream lending facilities.
Pinders’ market is often driven by selective panel
appointments and the company scores well with its
national network and high level of professionally
qualified staff. The market witnessed some fee erosion
during the year but Pinders resisted pressure to reduce
fees in pursuit of work. Good progress was made in its
Building Services division, particularly project
management services.
Outlook
Recommendations from established clients and 
fellow professionals result from having a business of
longstanding pedigree, easily accessible local staff and 
a comprehensive web presence. These are qualities 
that are not easy for competitors to emulate.
We are pleased to announce that Christie + Co has been
awarded the accolade of ‘UK’s most active agent’ in the
Leisure and Hotels category by the Estates Gazette for
the second year in a row. This industry recognition is an
encouraging confirmation of our strength in the market.
We believe that our market position is key to maximising
the opportunities presented by both the recovering
market on one hand and one showing signs of distress
on the other . Our valuation and agency services are
central to both de-gearing and transactional activity.
The pattern of this economic downturn is familiar to us
given our experiences of the recession in the early
1990s. However, this downturn has different root causes.
From our previous experiences we have a profound
understanding of our own business, its base trading
levels, the efficiency of our infrastructure and,
importantly, the value in ensuring that we are attractive
to our extended professional network and 'business
ready'. The Group is ready for an upturn in the market
and will benefit from the opportunity when markets
open more fully.
Christie Group relies on supportive clients and the
dedication of its quality personnel. It is thanks to them
both that we hold our strong market position. I express
my gratitude to our staff on behalf of the Board for their
ongoing commitment and professionalism.
The year has started well. A brighter outlook combined
with the profitability reported for 2011 enables the Board
to recommend a final dividend of 0.5p per share (2011:
1.0p per share). If approved, the dividend will be paid 
on 2 July 2012 to those shareholders on the register on 
1 June 2012.
Philip Gwyn
3 April 2012
Orchestrating
our strategy
Christie Group Annual Report 2011 3
