 6 Christie Group Annual Report 2012
Group performance was solid in a UK economy struggling
for growth, but from a strategic perspective 2012 was an
eventful year .
We are developing our business models and we entered 2013 as a more flexible,
productive business.
A strong start to 2012 set the tone for the first part of the year . We ended the
first half with Group profits ahead of expectations. However, as the summer
unfolded, three major national events captured the nation’s attention.
The Diamond Jubilee, the Olympics and the Paralympics were billed as boosting
economic activity. For many businesses, ours included, the reality, at least in the
short term, turned out to be rather different.
The focus on these events caused some disruption to our third quarter
performance. However, we swiftly regained momentum and the Group ended
the year strongly with a good pipeline of future business.
During the summer we conducted a strategic review of all our companies.
Looking in detail at our business models identified scope for reducing costs in
both Pinders and Orridge.
We have worked hard to introduce more scalability into our business model and
adapt our operations to changing conditions, and both contraction or expansion
in our markets.
A diversified organisation
Christie Group is a balanced, broadly-based organisation. Our revenue splits
evenly between our two divisions.
The profitability of our Professional Business Services (PBS) is reliant on market
conditions, whereas our Stock & Inventory Systems & Services (SISS) division
generates relatively stable cashflows in any economic environment.
These two parts of the Group offer services that relate to the entire lifecycle of a
business, from its initial acquisition and associated financial implications, through
managing costs and day-to-day operations, all the way to an eventual sale.
“W e ar e developing our business
models and we enter ed 2013 as a
mor efl exibl e ,pr oductiv ebusiness. ”
Chief Executive’ s review We have capability across
the full business cycle. 8 Christie Group Annual Report 2012
We offer specialist, in-depth, business intelligence. We add
value by understanding our chosen sectors – retail, care and
leisure – in great detail.
Christie Group companies have always prospered by
stressing specialist expertise. This won’t change. But how we
harness that expertise and how we deploy it to add value for
each customer continue to evolve.
Pinders project managers completed the fit-out of our new
Christie Group headquarters in London’s Carmelite Street in
2012. This concentration of head office resources will de-
duplicate our cost base in 2013.
New business models
Recessions are often periods of rapid market development,
and they bring opportunities for businesses prepared to
engage with their markets. Companies can gain a competitive
advantage by developing and refining their business models.
We look critically at all parts of the Group and we are continually
asking ourselves what more we can do to strengthen our
business, improve our efficiency and enhance quality.
Agility is a key priority. We focus on adding flexibility to our
operations and improving the scalability of our business
models, whilst all the while offering a consistency of service.
During 2012, we found numerous ways to adapt and
strengthen our businesses.
Different strategies suit specific businesses. We restructured
operations at Pinders and Orridge, created a new franchising
model for Orridge in international markets, added a
complementary business to Christie + Co and relocated Christie
Insurance’s support functions to bolster its competitiveness.
Restructuring operations
Both Pinders and Orridge rely increasingly on mobile technology.
In an always-online environment employees can be more
productive in the field and require less centralised support.
There was therefore scope for cost reduction at these two
companies. We scaled down spending on administration
while continuing to invest in profit-generating activities.
They are now able to operate at lower fixed costs with no
damage to their revenue earning potential. These measures
will yield significant annual savings.
Franchising
Orridge is active in eighteen countries and offers a pan-
European service. Its strength in Europe is a major plus for
international retailers.
But building on this international footprint has always been
complex. The stocktaking market is very diffuse. There are
numerous local operators. Developing scale in new territories
can be a painstaking and challenging process.
We identified franchising as a way to internationalise our
stocktaking business more rapidly. Potentially, this can be
a low-cost, low-risk alternative to opening new branches
overseas.
Orridge prepared the ground by codifying its key practices
and localising software, as required. In 2012, we established
our first franchising operation by signing a 20-year
agreement with a corporate franchisee in Germany.
Under the terms of the agreement the franchisee pays
rental and royalties to trade under the Orridge brand
and use its sophisticated proprietary software. As such,
it gains the capacity and the credibility to service large-
scale, international clients on our common platform.
It is currently in talks with potential franchisees in
other territories.
A bolt-on acquisition
When Christie Group originally acquired Orridge in 2002,
the vendor retained its business sales division, Orridge
Business Sales, which has a strong presence in the ‘white
coat’ sector . In 2012, we took advantage of an opportunity
to acquire this business.
Chief Executive’ s review continued
“In an always-online environment
employees can be more productive
in the field. ”
“We identified franchising as a way
to internationalise our stocktaking
business more rapidly .” Christie Group Annual Report 2012 9
The acquisition has quadrupled our share of transactional
and valuation services in the pharmacy sector . We have
combined our existing white coat agency with Orridge Business
Sales to create a Medical division within Christie + Co. The new
division is now the clear market leader in the UK pharmacy
and medical care sector .
Relocating support services
Dedicated personal attention and industry expertise have won
Christie Insurance a very loyal client base. It provides a highly
specialist service in our chosen sectors. The brokerage has
to tread a fine line. Its clients value its close understanding of
their specific requirements, but in a largely commoditised
market they also expect very competitive rates.
It therefore needs to keep a very close eye on costs.
In 2012, we took the decision to relocate the service and
administration elements of the business to South Wales.
It will gain valuable economies by taking advantage of the
lower cost base and skilled workforce based there. Its new
operations centre will allow the company to continue to
deliver high-value service at a competitive price.
International operations
We continue to gradually extend our international network.
We recognise that it can take time to establish new
operations. We build our success on strong networks and
in-depth local understanding.
2012 was an important year in the development of our
international capabilities. Orridge’s excursion into franchising
augurs well for the internationalisation of the business.
Christie + Co is strengthening its position in existing
territories. Two new international offices, in Dublin and
Warsaw, are extending its Europe-wide reach.
Professional Business Services
Property prices have been on a downward trajectory more or
less consistently since 2008, but in 2012 we saw signs that we
had passed the point of inflexion, and that markets were
moving back into equilibrium. As we emerge from a difficult
winter we believe we are now at the start of a gradual recovery.
Several indicators give grounds for optimism. There are
significantly fewer distressed sales and more consensual
sales. Private buyers are returning to the market as they start
to see value in well-priced opportunities. The lack of access
to funding, which has constrained markets for so long, is less
of an issue. Finally, the proportion of aborted transactions
has fallen back to long-term levels.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services
Our stocktaking businesses gained important new clients during
the year . Both businesses have strong client retention rates,
but incur high initial costs as new customers come on board.
Additional costs during this initial period are inevitable as we
adapt to each customer and harmonise systems. Ultimately,
increased volumes will translate into higher profitability. We
are investing in systems and training to ensure we continue
to offer high-quality services as these businesses grow.
Looking ahead
Today, Christie Group is more focused on its markets and we
are more diversified in our service offering, thereby making
us more resilient. We are making headway and are focused
on our strategic goal of rebuilding profits towards the levels
seen before the credit crunch.
Looking ahead, current indications point to an improving
economic picture in 2013. Whatever the prospects for the
economy, with our strong track record, extensive client list
and more flexible business model, we approach the future
with confidence.
David Rugg
Chief Executive
5 April 2013
