 6 Christie Group Annual Report 2013
After a challenging first half the Group performed well in 
the second half of the year . We have increased profitability
and enhanced the flexibility of our business.
An agile, resilient organisation 
Christie Group’s ability to adapt has been central to our continuing prosperity. 
Our Group has faced challenging market environments every year since 2008. 
And every year, we have demonstrated our ability to rise to each new challenge.
Through our innovative responses we have forged an agile organisation.
In 2013, there were, finally, clear signs that the UK is back on a path to growth.
We have the capabilities and the resources to take advantage of improving
economic conditions. With positive sentiment flowing back into the economy, 
we are well placed to benefit.
Our own performance mirrored the economic environment. The year began
slowly, but our business gathered momentum in the second half of the year . 
We entered 2014 with a strong pipeline of future projects. 
Our business structure has always served us well. Revenue is split evenly between
transaction-related services and services that enhance operational efficiency.
Professional Businesses Services (PBS) profitability is more reliant on market
conditions. This is complemented by the relatively stable earnings generated 
by our Stock & Inventory Systems and Services (SISS) businesses. It makes for 
a balanced, broadly based organisation with proven defensive qualities.
Adapting to changing market conditions
Christie Group provides specialist, in-depth, business intelligence in the retail, care
and leisure sectors. Our services relate to the entire lifecycle of a business – from
initial acquisition, through day-to-day operations, all the way to an eventual sale. 
Our ability to bring experience and expertise to bear on particular business issues
has long been a defining characteristic for the Group. Christie companies are
renowned for their in-depth expertise.
We make it our mission to deliver the highest level of service to each and every
customer . We continue to look closely at ways to improve and adapt our operations. 
Technology continues to shift market topologies. As information becomes
increasingly commoditised there is a growing understanding that it is depth not
“Christie Group today 
is more focused, flexible 
and resilient than ever .”
Chief Executive’s review
“Our consultancy services
that leverage our sector-
specific expertise are
growing our corporate
client base.” Christie Group Annual Report 2013 7
Our business structure has always served us well. Revenue is split 
evenly between transaction-related services and services that enhance operational
efficiency. Professional Businesses Services (PBS) profitability is more reliant on
market conditions. This is complemented by the relatively stable earnings generated
by our Stock & Inventory Systems and Services (SISS) businesses. It makes for 
a balanced, broadly based organisation with proven defensive qualities. 8 Christie Group Annual Report 2013
breadth of expertise that is the major market differentiator .
Our customers want detailed, highly specific advice. This plays
to our strengths. 
Restructuring UK operations
So that we can continue to serve our customers we continue
to pay close attention to our cost base. Having streamlined
our stocktaking businesses in 2012, we focused in 2013 on
our Professional Business Services division. In particular, 
we took a strategic decision to regionalise Christie & Co’s 
UK operations. Its fourteen offices are now managed from
London and five regions. 
This restructuring reduced costs and improved the
scalability of the business. We incurred some one-off
costs from this in the first half of the year, but by the second
half, profitability was much improved. The Group also
benefitted from the increased momentum in the economy
as the year progressed.
Removing boundaries
The decision to regionalise Christie & Co is part of a broader-
based initiative to remove boundaries internally. By developing
boundary-less operations supported by technology we are
improving service provision. Our people are encouraged to
share knowledge and assignments across territories and
between businesses. By sharing resources we are able to
field relevant professionals and respond to customers’
specific requirements more directly. 
Operating in the digital space
At Group level, we are investing in high quality systems to
support information exchange. We adopt technologies that
improve operational flexibility. As part of this process we are
working to locate the Group’s intellectual property centrally
and make it accessible to those in the field. 
Developing and adopting common standards across the
Group has had numerous benefits. Codifying many of our core
activities has helped us to clarify business objectives and the
resources we need to deliver them effectively. It is making it
easier to develop partnerships and work with franchisees. 
The work is also revealing new sources of revenue. We are
developing new types of service that extract valuable
information from this centralised data. 
For instance, anonymised and aggregated data from our
valuation business is helping banking clients assess their
credit risk to specific kinds of business. By benchmarking 
the profitability of a sector or business type they are better
able to anticipate borrowers’ revenue patterns.
Consultancy services
Consultancy services that leverage our sector-specific
expertise are becoming more important, especially for our
growing list of corporate clients.
Our expertise is widely acknowledged. In a recent portfolio
sale, eleven of the twelve private equity bidders asked us to
act for them. It is indicative of the way the Group is perceived
in the professional market.
We advise private equity houses on the dynamics of specific
categories of business within their debt and asset portfolios.
We help property investors to appreciate the likely earnings
streams of their commercial tenants. Our advice is informing
their strategic and portfolio management decisions. 
International operations
It takes time to establish operations capable of delivering 
the high level of service that is our hallmark. Internationally,
our approach has been to grow scale cautiously in line with
increasing demand. 
This year we extended our footprint in France with an
additional office in Bordeaux. 
In September, our stocktaking business Orridge took control
of its German franchisee. This acquisition gives us direct
access to territories within the German sphere of influence,
including Switzerland, Italy, Croatia, Montenegro, Poland and
CEE nations. With our strong footprint in France, Spain and
the Benelux region we are now well placed to deliver a
comprehensive service to pan-European retailers.
Chief Executive’s review continued
“Focused on excellence of service
delivery, our stocktaking (SISS) division
recorded a 49% profit increase” Christie Group Annual Report 2013 9
Financial flexibility
Our supportive shareholder base is a key strength for the
business. It allows us to operate with a high degree of
flexibility. We funded the German acquisition through a share
placement amounting to 5 per cent of the equity. This is the
first extension in our capital base for 25 years and it was
heartening to discover the level of investor support for the
business. This placement crystallised the fact that there is
significant untapped demand for larger tranches of Christie
equity than normally available. 
Professional Business Services 
The slowdown at the end of 2012 continued into 2013 and led
to tough trading conditions for Professional Business Services
during the first half of the year . We took this opportunity to
reorganise the business along regional lines. In the second
half, PBS rapidly gained momentum. It ended 2013 strongly
with a good pipeline of future deals.
Our newly created Medical Sector division performed strongly.
Christie & Co managed 55 pharmacy sales during the year .
It was easily the most active participant in the UK market.
The return of entrepreneurial owner/operator was a feature of
the year under review. Private investors have held back from
buying businesses in previous years, but there is now a
perception that there is good value to be found. The market
was bolstered by positive equity as a strong recovery in the
housing market took hold. 
As the swaps compensation scheme gathers pace, there will
be numerous owners of businesses who had been struggling
to meet their obligations who may now take the opportunity 
to sell their companies. Fortunately there is now sufficient
pent-up demand to absorb this additional supply. The result
may well be that volumes increase without falling valuations. 
This is likely to benefit our businesses in 2014. 
It may well be that in years to come investors will look back with
fondness on the current period. The combination of low interest
rates, availability, relatively low prices and sensible valuation
makes this a very attractive time to invest in a business. 
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services 
Our stocktaking and auditing businesses performed steadily
delivering stable earnings across the year . Both businesses
continue to focus on service excellence and close control 
of costs.
Orridge continues to build on its status as the UK’s premier
stocktaking provider in retail and pharmacy sectors. It is
gaining traction with UK supermarkets and extending its
European footprint. Venners produced another strong set 
of results, with earnings growth led by strong performance 
of its stock audit function. 
Looking ahead
We increased our profitability in 2013 and are focused on
profitable growth. We have made a good start, with a strong
pipeline of business at the end of the year . 
Christie Group today is more focused, flexible and resilient
than ever . We have grown our ability to operate internationally
and at scale. Our expertise and operational capabilities are
recognised in an increasingly professionalised market. 
We have made continued progress towards achieving our
strategic goal of rebuilding profits to the levels seen before
the credit crunch. We enter 2014 as a fitter organisation,
more attuned to the changing needs of today’s markets. 
The economic picture appears to be improving, but whatever
the prospects, with our strong track record, extensive and
growing client list, and more flexible business model, we can
face the future with confidence. 
David Rugg
Chief Executive
28 March 2014
“In the second half, PBS rapidly
gained momentum. It ended 2013
with a good pipeline of future deals.”
