 4 Christie Group Annual Report 2014
Fitter, leaner, stronger 
With the UK back on a path to growth
Christie Group’s market position this
year is stronger than ever . We have
increased revenue, are generating
strong earnings and, importantly, play
an increasingly pivotal role in the
sectors we serve. 
This is no accident.
Our adaptability has been key. We work
hard to keep the business aligned with
changing customer priorities. 
The wisdom in this Group has been hard
earned over several macro-economic
cycles. Our philosophy has always been
to make the most of difficult economic
periods. Rather than marking time we
have invested in our future. 
In the most recent downturn we focused
on operational efficiency. We delivered
cost improvements through incremental
steps and transformational leaps. We
found ways to improve our scalability.
We adopted technological solutions that
have changed the way we worked. We
initiated organisational changes.
At the same time, we made sure we
retained our core capabilities. We
therefore held back from some cost-
cutting measures despite the impact on
short-term profitability. 
As a result, we are now extremely well
placed to benefit from the upturn in
market activity.
In-depth market insight
Christie Group services relate to the
entire lifecycle of a business – from
initial acquisition, through day-to-day
operations, all the way to an eventual
sale. We provide specialist business
intelligence in the retail, care, leisure
and hospitality sectors. The range of our
operations keeps us close to our
customers and helps us understand
their changing requirements over time. 
Our organisational structure targets
stable earnings from services that
enhance operational efficiency with
transaction-related services that tend to
be more market-sensitive. 
We aim to steer away from purely
commoditised services in order to
deliver bespoke solutions that add value
for our clients and cannot be undercut
by our competitors.
Our competitive edge is based on
knowledge. We have always made it a
priority to understand the sectors we
serve in great detail. We act as problem
solvers and aim to develop products,
services and advice rooted in the
specifics of customers’ experiences.
In-depth expertise and service
excellence are the common threads that
link all our companies. 
In tough times, high quality expertise
comes into its own. Those customers
who have worked with us before have
direct experience of the value we can
add to their businesses. We have forged
strong links with banks and private
equity houses. 
Performance across the year
Christie Group companies worked very
hard through the recession, widening
our client base, increasing our network,
growing our service lines, developing
our systems and nurturing talent.
We are now benefitting in the UK’s
economic recovery. Our clients’
businesses are in discretionary sectors,
seeing revenue and profits rise. The
value of their businesses is growing.
The funders supporting our clients’
growth want more regular information
on their recipient businesses, relative
performances, market value and
potential value. 
Professional Business Services 
Property valuations improved as
confidence flowed back into the market.
Valuations in our specialist sectors
benefitted from healthier trading
conditions. There was double-digit
growth in many of our sectors with
some improving by as much as 20 per
cent. Volumes also increased although
they still remain some distance below
their pre-crisis levels. 
Both fees and advisory income were
boosted by buoyant market conditions
but there is still scope for improvement.
Transaction volumes are currently at
just half the level we saw before the
financial crisis. Volumes are likely to
increase and we will benefit accordingly.
Our ancillary services also moved
forward this year . The finance and the
insurance businesses are valuable profit
centres in their own right, but they also
extend our connectivity with our clients.
They allow us to forge more connections
Chief Executive’ s 
review
The Group has emerged from the economic downturn in a
stronger market position. We are growing revenue, have
increased profitability and strengthened earnings. Christie Group Annual Report 2014 5
“We have worked hard to benefit from the
economic recovery . Our adaptability has been
key . We are growing revenue, have increased
profitability and strengthened earnings.
We continue our European expansion.”
We build strong networks 
by focusing on deepening
coverage as well as extending
our reach.
In-depth expertise and
service excellence are the
common threads that link
all our companies. 6 Christie Group Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive’s review continued
with our transactional customers and
develop better insights into their
businesses. Indeed, the quality of our
finance business was recently
recognised by a commendation in the
Commercial Mortgage Introducer of the
Year category at The 2015 Business
Moneyfacts Awards.
Pinders, our appraisal and survey
business, is growing in scale and
returning solid profits. We are finding
that growing numbers of, particularly,
institutional clients are commissioning
surveys to smooth the selling process.
Buyers often make use of these reports
in their purchasing decisions.
Increasingly, following successful
conclusion of the transactions, the
buyers return to Pinders to commission
technical reports that complement
the original surveys. 
Regional structures support 
business objectives
We regionalised the business last year
to align it more closely with our
customers. The new structure helps
bridge the gap between small-scale
local and top-tier corporate clients. It
has made it easier to forge connections
with the many mid-tier clients who are
so important to the Group. 
A year on, it is evident that the new
structure has improved the way the
business is managed and enhanced our
profitability.
Stock & Inventory Systems 
& Services 
Some five years ago now, we devised
and adopted an internal strategy to
target food retailers as customers. They
hold a large number of product lines
which they turn over rapidly. To date,
the nature and value of most items they
sell are not suitable for RFID tagging
and require manual scanning.
This strategy continues to pay off as
our expertise in the supermarket
and convenience store sector is
acknowledged both in the UK with the
likes of Morrison and Coop Food, and
on the continent through franchises
like Carrefour .
The growth in bricks and clicks retailing
is driving demand for stocktaking at
more points in the supply chain.
Increasingly, retailers’ business models
are built on cohesive, well-controlled
supply chains. They need to identify
best-selling lines in real time and
monitor the ebbs and flows in the
delivery chain. For these reasons, we
have established a separate Supply
Chain Optimisation Division.
Overall, this is a very margin-led
business so it is vital to build a sound
organisational structure that can
operate cost-effectively. Orridge has
been transforming systems and
processes to make its new German
business competitive in the
Germanic region.
Our food consultancy service expanded
to include advice on allergen content as
part of menu planning and margin
control. Every food business needs a set
of controls. Many are discovering that
external supervision and enforcement
of controls can be more effective
and consistent. 
Operating in the digital space
With information more readily available,
knowledge is the true market
differentiator . Being able to codify and
share that knowledge creates a
powerful asset for the business
going forward. 
We are centralising all our data
repositories and are becoming much
more rigorous about compiling data,
while respecting client confidentiality
and data protection laws. We are also
developing specialist software, in
healthcare for instance, to mine
and present this data.
Our database contains highly detailed,
in-depth information. It has a range of
applications. For instance, we can
analyse the precise cost structure 
for specific business categories in 
each of our trade sectors. For private
equity clients this could be used to
benchmark performance, identify best
practice or determine profitability for
valuation purposes. For banks we can
reference our data to establish whether
a potential borrower has a viable
business model. 
Digital first and omni-channel
distribution
Online distribution has long since moved
into the mainstream. The issue today
is ensuring that we are on the right
platforms to reach our audiences. 
We estimate that 50 per cent of our
transactional business is initiated via
mobile. The web remains very important
for us, but traditional media marketing
is no longer a major driver . 
However, it is still very important to
build brand awareness. We invest
significantly in digital marketing and
allocate substantial resources to
brand building on the internet.
Transaction volumes are
likely to increase and we
will benefit accordingly. Christie Group Annual Report 2014 7
Collaboration and client-centric
operations
Our research indicates that our clients
want us to listen to their needs and
build offerings to suit their specific
requirements. We are therefore
repositioning all our businesses to
make them more customer-centric.
We aim to move towards a way of
working that recognises no fixed
boundaries between specialisms,
geographies or businesses. Instead,
all our people work together to
further client interests. 
Already we are using the internet to
deploy human capital more efficiently.
Rather than having spare capacity
sitting idle in every jurisdiction, we
allocate team members depending to
each client’s requirements. In some
cases, this also allows us to tailor
personnel to the client’s needs. 
We are increasingly taking on business
that combines specialisms. We are often
asked to marry up, say, a financial
investor with an operator . In creating
these packages we place ourselves at
the centre of the transaction. These
kinds of interventions allow us to
differentiate ourselves and add
additional value to our clients. 
Looking ahead
Christie Group has emerged stronger
from the recession. We have broadened
the scope of our services. We are better
able to operate internationally and at
scale. Our expertise and operational
capabilities are widely recognised in an
increasingly professionalised market.
We have extended our client base and
are now advising on much bigger
portfolios. Our international presence
and expertise has paid dividends. We
have numerous pan-European clients.
Christie Group is a strong, sustainable
business founded on knowledge,
exceptional service and operational
excellence. We shall continue to meet
customer priorities and build on our
strengths. 
-t
David Rugg
Chief Executive
30 March 2015
Christie Group has emerged stronger from
the recession. We have broadened the
scope of our services. We are better able to
operate internationally and at scale.
