 04
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman’s 
Statement
I am pleased to report that Cineworld has 
delivered another successful year with strong 
growth in revenue and profitability and an 
increase in box office market share, even though 
2009 was an extremely challenging year from an 
economic point of view. The strong performance 
in 2009 confirmed the robust cash generative 
nature of our business, resulted in record 
figures and is enabling us to propose an 
increased dividend. 
Total revenues increased by 11.5% to £333.4m 
and Adjusted pro forma Earnings Per Share grew 
to 16.2p, an increase of 11.0% compared to the 
previous year. As our Balance Sheet is strong 
and with borrowings under control, the Board is 
pleased to be proposing an increase in the full 
year dividend to a record 10.0p per share 
(2008: 9.5p).
2009 was also an important year for the 
cinema industry in the UK which saw a major 
step forward in the use of digital media, 
evidenced by the well publicised success of 
3D films. Current 3D technology, which has 
advanced immeasurably since the much derided 
technology of past, was quickly accepted by 
cinema goers and, I believe, has ushered in a 
new era for the cinema industry. Thirteen 3D 
films were released in 2009, compared to only 
four in 2008 and the expectation is that there 
will be at least eighteen 3D films in 2010. 
Underpinning this trend is the fact that “Avatar” 
has become the most successful film at the box 
office in the history of cinema. 
The success of 3D during the year was enabled 
by the major conversion to digital projection 
within the industry. Here, Cineworld has led the 
way, investing in digital equipment in the early 
part of the year. Digital projection has also 
facilitated the screening of alternative content 
such as opera and live theatre productions. 
Our other key area of expansion was the 
opening, in the latter part of 2009, of a 10 
screen cinema in Aberdeen and a five screen 
cinema, in Witney, both with digital projection 
facilities in all auditoria. At the end of the 
year we operated 77 cinemas with a total 
of 790 screens.
The continued downturn in the wider advertising 
market has been well publicised, but it was 
nevertheless disappointing to report a significant 
fall in screen advertising revenues. We remain 
optimistic about the longer term prospects for 
screen advertising, in light of the opportunities 
afforded by our digital expansion and also from 
the advertising industry as a whole once demand 
picks up. 
t he strong performance in 
2009 confirmed the robust cash 
generative nature of our business.
Anthony bloom
Chairman 05
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Lawrence Guffey retired from the Board in 
November 2009, having served as a Non-
Executive Director since December 2004 and 
as Deputy Chairman since April 2007. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank him for his 
valuable contribution to the business, and to 
welcome Alan Roux (who was previously 
Lawrence Guffey’s Alternate Director) to the 
Board. Cineworld’s people are at the heart of our 
business and, on behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank all our management and our 
employees for their achievements, hard work 
and commitment to the Company.
There is general consensus that the economic, 
financial and competitive environment will 
again be challenging during the year ahead. 
Nevertheless thanks to the strength of our 
business which we have built over the last 
15 years and the continued hard work of 
our management and employees, we continue 
to look forward to the future with confidence.
Anthony bloom
Chairman
11 March 2010
At the end of the 
year we operated 77 
cinemas with a total 
of 790 screens.
