 04
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman’s 
statement
It gives me much satisfaction to report another 
successful year of trading for the Group. The 
business has continued to deliver healthy 
growth in revenues and profits, and strong 
cash generation over the year. This good 
performance is despite a trading environment 
impacted by the football World Cup in June 
2010 and the heavy snowfalls across the 
whole country during December 2010.
In view of this performance, the Group is 
able to propose a 5% increase in the full year 
dividend for 2010 to 10.5p, which follows the 
increase declared last year.
Considerable progress was made in 2010. 
The increase in numbers of 3D films has been 
widely publicised and cinema attendances for 
3D films supported our strong performance. 
Our advertising business, Digital Cinema 
Media Limited (“DCM”), made further progress 
in the market as advertising spend showed 
good levels of recovery. We also continued 
to grow other revenue streams such as 
screening alternative content (including live 3D 
events such as the Six Nations rugby and the 
football World Cup) and providing venues for 
conferencing and other similar uses.
On 14 June, we announced our partnership 
with Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) which will 
lead to the roll out of digital projection facilities 
across the remainder of our cinema estate. It is 
an attractive deal which enables us to recoup a 
substantial proportion of our anticipated £40m 
investment as we earn the financial benefits 
from digital programming and 3D.
On 25 June, we signed a 25 year lease to 
operate the multiplex cinema at The O2 in 
London. The O2 is a major landmark and 
significantly raises our profile. We also 
announced an agreement for a 25 year lease 
for a new nine screen cinema at the Wembley 
City retail and leisure development, which is 
scheduled to open in 2013.
We remain committed to improving our 
operations through continual enhancement of 
the customer service and experience at our 
cinemas. Recent work carried out in our cinema 
in Wandsworth, London, to create a new look 
and feel for our customers, is a prime example.
In 2010, we achieved a milestone by becoming 
the largest cinema operator in the UK by total 
box office. This is a notable advancement 
over the previous year and demonstrates 
the success of our efforts to increase the 
competitiveness of our film and retail offers, 
our pricing and the comfort and accessibility of 
our cinemas.
The Blackstone Group sold its remaining 20.1% 
shareholding on 16 November 2010 through a 
placing which was well supported by a number 
of institutional investors. The Blackstone Group 
has been an excellent partner and has made 
a significant contribution to the Group over the 
last six years. Alan Roux left the Board following 
the divestment of the Blackstone holding 
and I would like to thank him for his valuable 
contribution to the business. Matthew Tooth, 
also originally appointed by the Blackstone 
Group, has agreed to remain on the Board.
I would also like to welcome two new members 
of the Board: Martina King and Rick Senat, who 
both joined on 2 July 2010 as independent 
Non-Executive Directors. They bring with them a 
wealth of experience in areas particularly relevant 
to Cineworld’s activities, and have already made 
a significant contribution to the business.
I am pleased to report that terms and 
conditions for a new £170 million, five year 
facility have recently been negotiated with a 
group of banks and which is expected to be 
signed in the near future. This will provide the 
Group with a stable financial platform to enable 
it to carry out its expansion plans.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
our management and our employees for their 
accomplishments and hard work. We cannot 
rest on our laurels because the economic and 
financial outlook remains challenging. The Group, 
however, is in a strong financial and competitive 
position and possesses a very able management 
team and committed staff. This gives me full 
confidence in our ability to continue to deliver 
value to our shareholders in the future. It 
remains a pleasure to be associated with such  
a successful and well run business.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
10 March 2011
In 2010, we achieved a milestone by 
becoming the largest cinema operator  
in the UK by total box office. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman 05
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Wandsworth 
flagship
A brighter, lively, more 
informative environment has 
resulted from the recent 
refurbishment of Cineworld’s 
Wandsworth cinema. 
Completed in October 
2010, the refurbishment 
and rebrand has created a 
friendly, relaxing atmosphere 
in the foyer. The new look 
cinema incorporates fresh 
designs that zone key areas 
for the customer. If they 
choose, customers can 
chill-out in the new relax 
zone while they watch trailers 
of upcoming films or even 
better still they can skip the 
queues and use the new and 
improved fast ticket zones.
According to General 
Manager, Henock Osei-Kissi, 
the redesign has improved 
the whole experience for 
customers. Results to date 
have been good with staff 
enjoying the positive feedback 
from customers who are 
responding well to the more 
welcoming environment.
We will be bringing  
a new friendly look  
to our cinemas in 2011
for more information visit 
www.cineworldplc.com
