 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
14
A solid financial  
performance
Chief Executive and  
Chief Financial Officers’ Business Review
Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
15
Performance Overview
Cineworld delivered a solid financial performance for the year. 
Total revenue for 2011 was £348.0m, an increase of 1.5% on the 
prior year (2010: £342.8m). Cineworld’s box office increased 2.7% 
to £242.1m. Average ticket price per admission increased marginally 
by 0.4% to £5.01 (2010: £4.99) whilst total retail revenues were 
flat (2010: £81.6m). Other revenues fell by 4.3% to £24.3m 
(2010: £25.4m). 
For the first time Cineworld was the number one cinema operator 
in the combined UK and Irish market, with a box office market 
share of 24.6% (2010: 24.6%). The Group’s admissions were 1.1m, 
2.3% higher than the prior year. 
Cineworld also remained the number one cinema operator in the 
UK in terms of box office (Rentrak/EDI) with a market share of 
26.1% in 2011 (2010: 26.2%).
Box Office
Cineworld’s principal income arises from box office revenues. 
Higher admissions in the year contributed to a 2.7% increase in 
box office sales to £242.1m. This equated to a 4.9% increase on 
a gross box office basis (inclusive of VAT) and was consistent with 
the UK and Ireland cinema industry as a whole, with industry gross 
box office up 4.9% against the previous year (Source: Rentrak/EDI), 
partially lifted by an increase in the rate of VAT from 17.5% to 20% 
on 4 January 2011.
Cineworld’s ticket price increases were partially offset by lower  
3D business and higher take up of concessionary and discounted 
tickets, which meant that the average ticket price per admission 
increased marginally by 0.4% to £5.01 (2010: £4.99). The average 
net ticket price (excluding VAT) of 3D of £6.32 compared to 2D of 
£4.50. Cineworld nevertheless continues to offer its customers 
good value with the lowest average ticket price of any of the major 
UK cinema groups. In the current economic climate there remains 
a notable proportion of customers taking advantage of our lower 
mid-week ticket prices. 
There were strong performances in the year from blockbusters such 
as “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2” (the highest 
grossing film in the UK in 2011), “Pirates of the Caribbean:  
On Stranger Tides”, “The Hangover Part II” and “Twilight Saga: 
Breaking Dawn – Part 1”, which all performed above or in line with 
industry expectations. Whilst the exceptional performance of  
“The King’s Speech” was well publicised, its box office performance 
was nearly matched by “The Inbetweeners”, which was the third 
highest grossing film in the UK in 2011. Cineworld maintained its 
box office market share in the UK in 2011, despite the increased 
market share of independent cinemas which was at the expense 
of some of the other large cinema operators. Their gains reflect 
the fact that they have caught up on conversion to digital projection 
and the provision of 3D, and they also capitalised on the exceptional 
successes of a large number of smaller films such as the “King’s 
Speech”, “Black Swan” and “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy”, an area  
in which they tend to outperform.
3D films continued to contribute a sizeable proportion of overall 
film business with 37 films released in 3D compared with 25 films 
in 2010. The 3D format continues to remain popular although some 
value-seeking customers have a preference for the 2D format. Strong 
comparatives due to the outstanding success of films such as 
“Avatar”, “Alice in Wonderland” and “Toy Story 3” in 2010, meant 
that the proportion of 3D box office nationally was lower year-on-
year at 23% (2010: 30%). The most notable films in 3D in 2011 
were “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2”, “Pirates of the 
Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” and “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” .
We remained true to our strategy of offering customers the 
broadest range of films on the market. There were a number of 
smaller and mid-range films that performed well during the year 
including “Limitless”, “No Strings Attached”, “Attack the Block” 
and “Season of the Witch”, with which we achieved higher 
individual market shares than our overall market average. We also 
remained the biggest exhibitor of Bollywood films in the UK. 
Popularity of this genre remains high with films such as “Ra.One” 
and “Bodyguard” released during the year. In addition to other 
specialised and foreign language films played, such as “Senna” 
and “Biutiful”, we were the exclusive UK exhibitor for the first ever 
3D Polish film “Battle of Warsaw”.
Alternative Content
We continued to make good progress during the year in developing 
our alternative content offering which has been made possible by 
our digital conversion programme. The most notable events of the 
year included live music concerts by JLS and the Red Hot Chilli 
Peppers, Lord of the Dance in 3D and the 25th Anniversary show 
of Phantom of the Opera screened from The Royal Albert Hall.  
We also screened a number of documentaries such as The Foo 
Fighters, and Talahina Sky: Kings of Leon. As a one-off event, the 
men’s and women’s singles finals of the tennis at Wimbledon were 
shown in 3D and highlighted the improving technical capabilities 
of screening live action in 3D. In the field of the performing arts, 
our core live opera and theatre product came from the New York
Performance Overview
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
Total
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
Total
Admissions 48.3m 47.2m
£m £m
Box office 242.1 235.8
Retail 81.6 81.6
Other Income 24.3 25.4
Total revenue 348.0 342.8 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
16
It is expected that the digital conversion  
will be completed by the end of the  
summer of 2012.
Metropolitan Opera, the National Theatre and the Royal Opera 
House, all of which were well attended. The scope of alternative 
content is growing, but currently remains a niche offering and 
therefore a relatively small contributor to box office revenues.
Retail
Food and drink sales to our customers are Cineworld’s second 
largest source of revenue and represent 23% of total revenues. 
Total retail revenues were flat at £81.6m (2010: £81.6m).
Net retail spend per person softened in 2011 to £1.69 (2010: 
£1.73) reflecting the competitive offers within our promotions.  
As expected, our customers remained highly value conscious given 
the tough consumer environment and we successfully responded 
with a number of value initiatives. We ran promotions targeted at 
specific customer groups such as families with “ticket combo” 
offers and to Unlimited subscribers with money-off vouchers. 
During the year we focused on the development of offers in order 
to widen the appeal of bars and help stimulate demand. We also 
made progress in developing our coffee offer. At the end of the 
year we commenced work fitting out a new Starbucks coffee 
franchise trial at our Sheffield cinema to be opened by the end of 
March. If successful, we have plans to roll-out more franchises  
in the future.
Other Income
Other Income includes all other revenue streams outside box office 
and retail and represents 7.0% of total revenues. Other Income fell 
4.3% to £24.3m (2010: £25.4m). 
The major element of Other Income is screen advertising revenue. 
Trading at Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”), our joint venture 
screen advertising business formed in July 2008, was marginally 
lower than the previous year and reflected the difficult trading 
environment within the wider advertising industry, especially towards 
the end of the year. A major success for DCM was winning the 
account to provide screen advertising to the Vue Cinema circuit 
with effect from 1 January 2011 which significantly increased DCM’s 
coverage of UK cinemas. During the year, Martin Bowley, Managing 
Director of DCM resigned and Simon Rees was subsequently 
appointed in his place on 3 May 2011 and joined the Board on  
31 August 2012.
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising time on cinema screens 
on behalf of Cineworld and its other clients. It also engages in 
related promotional work between advertisers and cinemas. The 
management team at DCM has been driving operational efficiencies 
and effectiveness and during the year has been working on 
repositioning the operations to handle the digital format. We are 
excited by the opportunities for DCM when the three major circuits, 
Cineworld, Odeon and Vue become fully digitised by the end of 
2012, which will provide greater flexibility in delivering advertising 
to cinemas and potentially open up a new segment of the market.
 
Other Income included sales of 3D glasses, ticket bookings and 
theatre hires. The fall in income was mainly due to a fall in sales  
of 3D glasses, which reflected the lower 3D admissions compared 
with the previous year. We have seen more customers re-using 
their purchased glasses, which demonstrate the success of our 
initiative to encourage their re-use rather than disposal. In 2011, 
approximately 55% of customers attending 3D performances were 
still purchasing 3D glasses, which has not fallen significantly from 
the 2010 level of over 60%.
Investment in Digital
Since 2009, Cineworld has been replacing its 35mm film projectors 
with digital projectors, which bring many benefits such as removing 
the need for film reels, greater availability of product and the 3D 
format. At the end of December 2011, Cineworld had installed 
digital projectors at over 75% of its screens. It is expected that the 
conversion will be completed by the end of the summer of 2012. 
As film studios benefit in a major way financially, they have offered 
incentives to cinema exhibitors to help fund the conversion.
In June 2010 Cineworld entered into an agreement with Arts 
Alliance Media (“AAM”) whereby AAM utilises its Virtual Print Fee 
(“VPF”) agreements with film distributors to recover financial 
contributions over a maximum period of ten years, on behalf of 
Cineworld, from the film studios. Under the AAM deal, Cineworld 
acquires the digital projectors directly from a third-party and retains 
full control over the timing of their purchase and over their 
installation and operation. VPFs are expected to cover a substantial 
proportion of the total acquisition cost over a 7-10 year period.  
The VPFs are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of film hire 
thereby benefiting EBITDA. To date the overall VPF process between 
Cineworld, AAM and the film distributors has operated successfully. 
We earned over £4.0m of VPFs for the year and will continue to 
earn VPFs over the 7-10 year recovery period. 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
17
Unlimited Card Programme
Our unique subscription programme, Unlimited, offers a competitive 
value proposition to our customers. The programme offers customers 
the opportunity to pay a fixed monthly (or annual) subscription, 
which enables them to watch as many 2D films (and 3D films  
on payment of a supplement fee) at our cinemas as they wish. 
Cineworld prides itself on being the only cinema operator in the  
UK and Ireland to offer a subscription programme and, to date, 
has over 280,000 members.
The programme is one of the pillars that underpin our strategy of 
growing other revenues and admissions. It brings to the Group the 
financial benefits of regular subscription income reducing the level 
of fluctuation in our revenues with subscription income 
contributing over 16% of total box office revenues. It also brings 
operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, often at off-peak 
times. This, in turn, enables us to improve capacity utilisation at 
our cinemas, provide more retail opportunities and introduce a 
wider range of films than our competitors. As a result, we 
continued to enjoy significant market share among the smaller, 
less mainstream films in 2011.
Initiatives and Developments
We are keen to embrace the opportunities in improving our 
technology to allow more intelligent and integrated marketing, 
booking and ticketing using the internet and mobile devices and 
we are devoting time and resources to exploit the potential this 
offers and to ensure we remain competitive.
Activity on our consumer website increased in the year, recording 
over 54m visits, which puts it comfortably in the top 40 most visited 
websites in the UK (as reported in the IMRG Experian Hitwise Hot 
Shops List) during the year. In addition, our successful mobile 
enabled web booking service is now complemented by our 
applications (“apps”) for both the iPhone and Android phones 
which together attracted a further 35m visits in the year to the 
mobile channels.
The “MyCineworld” membership on the website continued its 
expansion with a total database of over 900,000 members. In the 
year we ran a trial at selected cinemas to encourage more users 
to join and book tickets through MyCineworld, by removing online 
booking fees and offering discounted tickets if booked through 
MyCineworld, which yielded positive results. Compared with the 
rest of Cineworld’s sites, the rate of joiners of 
MyCineworld was faster than the rest of the UK whilst the rate  
of online bookings grew significantly compared with the rest of  
the cinemas. 
The growth of MyCineworld is an important part of our strategy to 
engage further with our customers. It will enable us to improve our 
customer retention and help us to encourage more frequent visits 
to our cinemas. Furthermore, by transferring bookings online, we 
aim to improve customer service by reducing queues at the box 
offices and to convert more space to other activities which will 
improve the customer experience at our cinemas and help drive 
incremental revenues.
 
During the year we commenced projects to upgrade our cinema 
point-of-sale system and supporting systems covering finance and 
customer relationship management. These new systems will increase 
our transactional capabilities and support better communication 
with more of our customers. A number of pilot sites were successfully 
trialled with the new point-of-sale system and, since the end of the 
year, the programme to roll out the system to all cinemas has 
commenced. We anticipate completing all implementations by  
the end of the summer of 2012. 
In addition, we have continued to improve utilisation of cinemas at 
off peak times particularly through the hire of individual auditoriums. 
We continue to offer our cinemas as venues for other purposes from 
corporate conferences and private film hires, through to educational 
meetings and religious gatherings on Sunday mornings. Recently 
Cineworld become a preferred partner with De Vere Venues and will 
utilise De Vere’s sales and call centre capabilities to increase the 
venue hire business. This is currently being run at a few selected sites 
as a trial with a view to expand it to cover more sites in the future.
People and Diversity
Our people are core to the success of our business and to make 
Cineworld a great place to work. We continued to invest in our 
people throughout the Group with programmes such as The 
Academy programme for high potential cinema managers through 
to Step Up programmes for multifunctional staff. Also for the first 
time in 2011, we conducted a values survey amongst our people. 
The outputs are being used to ensure our people are engaged, 
motivated and retained.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
18
Expansion remains a key strategic  
priority for the Group.
We are an equal opportunity employer and seek to recruit, retain 
and promote staff on the basis of their qualifications, skills, 
aptitude and attitude. A wide range of applicants are encouraged 
to apply for all roles and we have a wide and diverse workforce. We 
still believe that the single most important factor is to identify, 
recruit and retain the people we consider, on merit, to be the best 
candidates for each particular role.
Key Business Relationships
We have worked hard at developing good working relationships 
with a wide range of film studios, both major and independent. We 
work closely on combating film piracy and on simplifying the film 
buying process. Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on 
providing our customers with a wide range of films through our film 
strategy has resulted in many opportunities for us to work with 
film studios on promoting smaller films to a wider audience. 
We continue to work very closely with developers, landlords and 
council planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new 
sites for the future. In addition we work closely with our principal 
suppliers, on promotions that help drive ticket and retail sales. We 
seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly and to work 
in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our ethical policy, 
a cornerstone of which is treating others as you expect to be 
treated yourself. 
Our partnership with Tesco through its Clubcard loyalty 
programme continued to thrive, aided by Tesco advertising to 
promote the ticket offer, which helped to reinforce Cineworld’s 
brand profile nationally.
The Environment and Health and Safety
As a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its total energy 
consumption and the amount of waste material generated and 
therefore continues to work to reduce both energy usage and the 
quantity of non-recyclable waste materials produced. During 2011, 
initiatives taken include reducing the number of deliveries to our 
sites, reducing packaging and removing non-biodegradable plastic 
from our retail products, and trialling energy reduction measures. 
With over 48 million customer visits, the safety and welfare  
of Cineworld’s customers, staff and contractors are of prime 
importance. Annual cinema audits covering Fire, Food and Health 
and Safety are undertaken on an unannounced basis in order  
to reflect the true operation of health and safety at each site. 
Overall, the initiatives implemented in 2011 have shown 
improvements in site standards compared to last year’s results.
Expansion
Expansion remains a key strategic priority for the Group over the 
medium term and we have ensured that we have the financial 
capability, through a new increased bank facility, to pursue such 
opportunities. Our strong financial position and our good track 
record of driving high footfalls through our cinemas make us an 
attractive partner for property developers.
 
In November 2011, as scheduled, we opened a seven screen 
cinema in Leigh, which increased the Group’s estate to 79 
cinemas with 811 screens. Work has begun on site for a new 
seven screen cinema in Aldershot, which is currently planned to 
open in the fourth quarter of 2012. Whilst the uncertainty over 
development financing and timing of new projects continues, we 
have seen improvements in confidence in the property market 
during the year with renewed interest in existing proposals as well 
as new plans and ideas being tabled. We have over 10 development 
sites signed and have a good pipeline of further opportunities. 
The addition of sites will facilitate the expansion of our Unlimited 
and MyCineworld propositions into new locations, thereby growing 
our business.
In June 2011, we opened a new concept cinema called “The 
Screening Rooms”, a three screen cinema in Cheltenham. The 
concept offers higher levels of comfort and service within a 
premium environment. Results to date have been positive and we 
are actively looking for new sites to expand the concept.
We were disappointed that the attempt to purchase the Cinesur 
chain of cinemas in Spain was unsuccessful due to circumstances 
outside our control, but we continue to look for suitable expansionary 
opportunities that are in the best interests of our shareholders.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
19
Key Trends and Factors Potentially Affecting the Future
The future success of the Group in 2012 will principally remain 
dependent on the strength of the film releases during the year. 
Sequels and franchises will continue to contribute a significant 
number of the higher profile blockbuster films. Many such films 
outperform the original film or concept, so the film studios will 
continue to look to capitalise on proven successful formulae. The 
film release programme for 2012 includes a strong line-up of 
potential blockbusters. 
Some film studios may seek to maximise their revenues using 
whatever distribution means available including video on demand. 
While initial limited trials have been unsuccessful, such initiatives 
are expected to continue and may put added pressure on the 
current theatrical release window in which new films are only 
shown in the cinema before being released via other media. 
The importance of non-US markets to the US film studios is 
increasing and the UK remains an important market outside the 
US. “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2” and “Pirates of 
the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” achieved about 75-80% of their 
worldwide box office revenues outside the US. The UK market also 
showed more resilience in 2011 than the US, which suffered a fall 
in box office of 5.4% against 2010. The success of UK films such 
as “The King’s Speech” and “The Inbetweeners” and the stable 
level of cinema going in the UK should further encourage Hollywood 
to support both locally produced product and product that appeals 
to the UK and Irish market. 
It is anticipated that 2012 will see a similar number of 3D films as 
did 2011 (37 3D films compared with 25 in 2010). Studios have 
also started to convert some older film titles to 3D, thereby adding 
to the range of 3D film choice. With completion of our conversion 
to digital projection in 2012, we will be well placed to capitalise on 
this product.
The price differential between 3D and 2D films is expected to 
continue and, with the number of 3D films planned for release 
similar to last year, should help support the overall revenue levels. 
Films appealing to an older teenage and young adult audience, 
such as Transformers, have had the highest take up of 3D (as high 
as 80%) whilst films which appealed to younger children have so 
far tended to attract a lower proportion of 3D business.
Within alternative content, plays and opera will continue to provide 
solid business through established providers such as the New 
York Metropolitan Opera and the National Theatre. Otherwise the 
source of alternative content remains fragmented. Stabilisation 
and consolidation amongst suppliers should increase the range  
of content, improve the operational delivery and result in financial 
savings. Revenues from alternative content are anticipated to 
grow further, albeit from a small base. 
The general economic and consumer environment is expected to 
remain uncertain for the foreseeable future and will continue to 
present trading challenges. While customers have been prepared 
to pay higher ticket prices to see 3D films, there are certain 
segments of the customer base that prefer to see 2D for cost 
reasons. Demand in the wider advertising industry is anticipated 
to remain challenging, which would be reflected in cinema screen 
advertising. However, full digital conversion by DCM’s major 
exhibitor clients (Cineworld, Odeon and Vue) anticipated for late 
2012 will improve DCM’s competitive position and support its 
objective of gaining a larger share of advertisers’ budgets. 
 
We expect that the strong mid-week business enjoyed over the last 
couple of years will continue. The appeal of “Bargain Tuesdays” and 
“Orange Wednesdays” promotions demonstrate that customers 
continue to seek value in the current economic climate.
Finance for many continues to be challenging which could delay 
the development of new cinemas. Nevertheless we remain 
committed to expanding our business – through opening more 
cinemas and through the acquisition of other cinema portfolios – 
facilitated by our strong financial position. 
Cineworld will continue to offer a highly compelling choice within 
the wider range of entertainment and leisure activities. We believe 
going to the cinema remains one of the best value forms of 
popular entertainment and will continue to attract audiences who 
seek quality film product and where the immersive viewing 
experience remains unmatched by any other media. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
20
Financial Performance
EBITDA and Operating Profit
EBITDA was up 7 .3% at £63.3m (2010: £59.0m) and was achieved 
through better cost margins as box office takings were spread 
across a wider range of films compared with last year while virtual 
print fee income was higher than the previous year, reflecting the 
first full year of operating the Arts Alliance contracts. These were 
offset by lower sales of 3D glasses and by higher property costs 
(reflecting the full year cost of the O2 cinema, acquired in June 
2010) and in general increases in operating costs. Nevertheless 
operating profit at £42.6m was 14.8% higher than 2010 of £37 .1m. 
Operating profit included a number of non-recurring and non-trade 
related costs. The primary charges in the year related to 
transaction and reorganisation of £3.9m. The main component 
was £3.2m of reorganisation costs of which the majority was 
related to the digital conversion and to harmonise audio/visual 
work across the whole circuit. The annual labour savings resulting 
will recover the initial costs within two years. The remainder was 
£0.7m of transaction costs relating to the refinancing and the 
attempted acquisition of Cinesur. Offsetting these costs was a 
£1.7m credit which was due to the change in the inflation 
assumption from the Retail Price Index to the Consumer Price 
Index in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme and £0.5m 
from refinement of a dilapidation provision. 
The depreciation and amortisation charge (included in administrative 
expenses) in the period of £18.9m was higher than last year (2010: 
£17 .2m), reflecting the higher expenditure on digital projectors to date. 
Finance Costs
On 31 March 2011, the Group refinanced its existing debt. The 
new five-year facility consists of a £70m term loan with repayments 
of £2.5m every six months commencing June 2011 and a revolving 
credit facility of £100m. This will provide more flexibility for the 
Group in its expansion activities as well as other growth opportunities. 
Interest will be charged on the facility at 1.95% above LIBOR. 
There are two covenants: net debt to EBITDA of 3 times and 
pre-rent EBITDA to interest plus rent of 1.5 times.
The Group considered its hedging strategy at the time of the 
refinancing and concluded that it was not economic to close out 
the existing swap, which at 31 March 2011, was in a liability 
position of £2.2m. In addition, it took out two new interest rate 
swaps to hedge the remainder of the £70m term loan. Under IFRS, 
there is a requirement for the existing swap to be re-assessed to 
establish whether it still meets the criteria for hedge accounting. 
The hedge was considered to be ineffective, and as a result, its 
fair value on 31 March 2011 of £2.2m was recycled to the income 
statement as an exceptional finance expense. In addition, mark to 
market movements on the ineffective portion of the hedge from 
the point of refinancing up until 29 December 2011 of £1.1m was 
also recorded as a credit in the income statement.
The net financing costs of £9.2m included the £2.2m charge  
on closing out the hedge upon refinancing and the £1.1m credit 
arising from the mark to market movement, as described above 
and the ongoing financial expenses of £9.7m, offset by financial 
income of £1.6m. The financial expenses comprised of £5.3m in 
relation to interest on the bank loans which was higher than the 
previous year and reflected the higher margin charged on the facility. 
The balance of the financial expenses were non cash amounts 
arising from the amortisation of financing costs, the unwinding  
of discount on onerous leases, the pension scheme and from  
the finance lease. The financial income of £1.6m was primarily 
from the actuarial valuation of the returns on the defined  
benefit pension plan assets and was at a similar level  
reported for 2010.
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
Total
52 week
period ended 
30 December
2010
Total
Admissions 48.3m 47.2m
£m £m
Box office 242.1 235.8
Retail 81.6 81.6
Other 24.3 25.4
Total revenue 348.0 342.8
EBITDA* 63.3 59.0
Operating profit 42.6 37.1
Financial income 1.6 1.6
Financial expenses (9.7) (8.2)
Refinancing interest expense (1.1) –
Net financing costs (9.2) (6.6)
Share of loss from joint venture – (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 33.4 30.4
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (9.5) (9.4)
Profit for the period attributable to equity 
holders of the Company
23.9 21.0
* EBITDA is defined as 
operating profit before 
depreciation, impairments, 
reversals of impairments  
and amortisation, onerous 
lease and other non-recurring 
or non-cash property  
charges, transaction, 
pensions, refinancing  
and reorganisation costs.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
21
Earnings
Overall profit on ordinary activities before tax was £33.4m, 9.9% 
higher than 2010 of £30.4m. Basic diluted earnings per share 
amounted to 16.7p (2010: 14.7p). Taking account of the one-off, 
non-trade related items described above, totalling £1.7m and the 
charge of £1.1m relating to the hedge on the previous bank loan 
(included in net financing costs), the adjusted pro-forma diluted 
earnings per share were 19.2p (using a normalised tax rate of 26.0%) 
compared with 2010 of 18.1p. The weighted average number of 
shares in issue in 2011 was 142.0m including 607,096 shares 
issued during the year.
Taxation
The overall tax charge was £9.5m giving an overall effective tax 
rate of 28.4% for the year (2010: 30.9%). The corporation tax 
charge in respect of the current year was £8.5m. There was a 
credit of £3.3m relating to prior years, which was offset by £4.3m 
of deferred tax charges principally relating to capital allowances 
(the difference between the tax written down value of the capital 
allowance and the net book value of the underlying assets).
Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
The Group continued to be strongly cash generative at the operating 
level. Total cash generated from operations was £55.3m compared 
with £50.7m in 2010 primarily due to the better trading levels 
against the weather affected December 2010. Better trading also 
resulted in higher creditor levels at the end of 2011 compared 
with 2010. 
Net cash spent on capital for the year was £25.0m. Included in 
this cash expenditure was £14.8m in relation to the purchase of 
digital projectors. £2.3m (net of reverse premium) was spent on 
the new sites in Leigh and the new Screening Rooms concept in 
Cheltenham. The balance of other capital expenditure of £7.9m 
was for equipment replacement, site refurbishments and expenditure 
on various initiatives such as the replacement of the cinema point 
of sale and upgrading automated ticket sales points. The high level 
of internally generated cash has funded our entire capital expenditure 
whilst repaying term debt of £5m and paying dividends of £15.2m. 
Fees of £1.8m were paid in respect of the refinancing.
 
Net debt at the end of December 2011 of £101.4m was broadly 
level with 2010 of £100.8m. Net debt included a £4.5m liability 
valuation of the interest rate swap hedge on the bank loan (2010: 
£2.8m liability) which primarily reflected a larger hedged amount 
of £65.0m under the new facility. The liability position arose 
because the fixed rate of interest payable on the swap was higher 
than the LIBOR rate receivable on the hedged portion of the loan 
for the remainder of its five-year term. 
As in previous years, the Group remained well within its banking 
covenants on its new facility and achieved financial targets which 
enabled it to benefit from a low margin on its bank debt of 1.95% 
above one month LIBOR. The bank loan at the end of the year was 
comfortably below two times the EBITDA of 2011. The Group 
enjoys the security of a substantially larger revolving credit facility 
of up to £100.0m (of which £32m remained drawn at the end of 
the year) as part of the overall £170.0m bank facility which further 
enhances the Group’s overall liquidity.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for approval a 
final dividend in respect of the period ended 29 December 2011 
of 7.4p per share, which taken together with the interim dividend 
of 3.6p per share paid in October 2011, gives a total dividend in 
respect of 2011 of 11.0p per share, a 0.5p increase on the level 
in 2010. Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be 
paid on 5 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at 8 June 2012.
Board Changes
On 11 May 2011, Matthew Tooth left the Board, having stayed  
on in an independent capacity, following the divestment by The 
Blackstone Group (“Blackstone”) of its interest in the Group in 
November 2010. Blackstone’s and Matthew’s contribution have 
been of great value. On 10 June 2011, Richard Jones resigned 
from the Board and as Chief Financial Officer, having started with 
the business over 15 years ago and having made a significant 
contribution over that period. On 1 December 2011 Philip Bowcock 
was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Current Trading and Looking Ahead
The current financial year has started satisfactorily with a 
reasonable level of business carrying over from the Christmas 
period with the main films being “Mission Impossible: Ghost 
Protocol”, “Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows” and “Girl with 
the Dragon Tattoo”. The performances of films released so far this 
year such as “The Artist”, “Iron Lady” and “War Horse”, whilst 
receiving critical acclaim and being in line with internal expectations, 
have been lower than the same period last year which benefitted 
from the unexpected success of “The King’s Speech”.
The film release schedule for the remainder of 2012 is strong and 
takes into account the timing of the European Football Championships 
and the Olympics. Amongst those films planned for release are 
“Skyfall” (the next Bond film), “The Hobbit”, “The Dark Knight 
Rises” (the latest in the Batman franchise) and “The Amazing 
Spiderman”. This release schedule for the rest of the year together 
with the completion of the digital rollout, and the continued 
expansion of MyCineworld and Unlimited, means the business is 
well placed to maximise its opportunities.
Stephen Wiener  Philip Bowcock
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2012 
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com
