 2
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that the Group delivered a satisfactory year 
of trading in 2012 particularly against a background of significant 
public events which adversely affected cinema attendance namely 
the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations, the European football 
championships and the London Olympics.
Our gross UK and Ireland box office market share was 24.7%, 
according to Rentrak/EDI which was a credible result in a market 
which saw some consolidation of smaller cinema operators by our 
main competitors. It is a clear demonstration of the success of our 
efforts to increase the competitiveness of our film and retail offers, 
our pricing and the comfort and accessibility of our cinemas.
It was a busy year for the Group in the execution of our growth 
strategy and investment activities. We successfully completed the 
conversion of our estate to digital projectors, opened a new seven 
screen cinema in Aldershot on 26 October on schedule and we 
expanded our IMAX screens to eight locations. Our focus on the 
customer and the cinema experience remains as important as 
ever and forms a significant part of our Customer First strategy. 
During the year, Cineworld was the first major cinema operator to 
abolish booking fees and it also launched a 10% reduction in the 
price of tickets booked online through MyCineworld. Our Unlimited 
subscription programme continued to expand and still remains  
a unique offering in UK and Ireland.
The most significant event of the year was the successful 
acquisition of Picturehouse on 6 December. Picturehouse 
cinemas are characterised by their individual and often unique 
styles and they appeal to a more mature audience with a different 
retail offering and film choice. The chain operates in a different 
market segment from that of Cineworld Cinemas and has the 
potential to grow under its own brand and separate management. 
There are opportunities to share best practices across retail, 
operations and film programming activities. I am very excited by 
the potential growth prospects for the Group and I would like to 
welcome Lyn Goleby, Picturehouse’s Managing Director, and her 
management team to the Group.
It is therefore a pleasure to report that the Board has proposed a 
7.3% increase in the full year dividend for 2012 to 11.8p, which 
continues the year on year growth in dividends every year since 
2008. This is an achievement of which we are particularly proud, 
more especially as it has taken place in challenging economic 
times. Notwithstanding the increased dividend proposal and the 
Picturehouse acquisition, the balance sheet remains strong.
The Board remains committed to maintaining a strong culture of 
governance throughout the whole organisation. We continue to 
take note of issues concerning the environment, remuneration, 
gender and diversity and health and safety and where appropriate 
to review our practices accordingly.
Tom McGrath has decided to step down at the Annual General 
Meeting on 15 May 2013 and not stand for re-election. He has 
been a Non-Executive Director since May 2005 and has made a 
significant contribution since that time, particularly keeping the 
Board up to date on developments in the film and cinema industry 
in the US. He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, a role 
that Rick Senat will fill going forward.
We believe that the economic and financial challenges will 
continue during 2013 and that the competitive landscape will 
remain tough. We will strive to continually improve what we offer 
to our customers and to make Cineworld’s and Picturehouse’s 
cinemas the consumer’s choice. There are attractive growth 
prospects for both chains. Cineworld Cinemas has a strong 
pipeline of new multiplex cinemas over the next five years and in 
2013 plans to open four new cinemas at Wembley, St Neots, 
Gloucester and Glasgow Science Centre. Picturehouse gives the 
Group further growth opportunities and adds to my optimism 
about the future prospects of the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our management and 
our employees for their hard work and achievements. Our people 
continue to demonstrate a high degree of motivation and passion 
for the business and for delivering success. The Group has a 
successful business model that has proven itself over successive 
years and which has delivered a strong financial and competitive 
position. I will be working with management and staff to move the 
business forward and look forward to reporting continued growth 
to you, our shareholders.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
7 March 2013


 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
3
A different experience
The Picturehouse chain of cinemas joined the Cineworld Group in 
December 2012. Consisting of 21 cinemas each with ﬁve or fewer 
screens and their own individual styles, they offer something very 
different to Cineworld Cinemas multiplexes. Situated in urban 
areas, they cater for students and a diverse afﬂuent adult 
audience who appreciate arthouse ﬁlms, the unique ambience 
and more intimate cinema going experience.
There is more to Picturehouse than just cinemas however, it has a 
strong café bar culture and offers a very wide range of alternative 
content. It provides operating systems to other cinemas, acts as a 
distributor for smaller ﬁlms and even programmes screenings at 
34 independently owned cinemas.
Looking to the future, a new Picturehouse opened in Brighton in 
December 2012 and there are plans to expand the chain further 
and bring the unique arthouse experience to more locations 
around the country.
21

