 12
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcers’  
Business Review
Performance Overview
As City Screens Limited and its subsidiaries (“Picturehouse”) only 
became part of the Group on 6 December 2012 and therefore  
was consolidated for the final 22 days of 2012, the following 
commentary focuses primarily on the performance and activities of 
the Cineworld Group excluding Picturehouse, except where stated.
52 week period ended  
27 December 2012
52 week period 
ended 
29 December 
2011 
Total
Group  
Total
Picturehouse  
Total
Cineworld  
Total
Admissions 48.0m 0.2m 47.8m 48.3m
£m £m £m £m
Box office 252.6 1.0 251.6 242.1
Retail 82.8 0.5 82.3 81.6
Other Income 23.3 1.0 22.3 24.3
Total revenue 358.7 2.5 356.2 348.0
Total revenue in 2012 was £356.2m an increase of 2.4% on the 
prior year (2011: £348.0m). Cineworld’s box office increased 
3.9% to £251.6m. Average ticket price per admission increased 
by 5.0% to £5.26 (2011: £5.01) whilst total retail revenues of 
£82.3m were marginally ahead of the previous year (2011: 
£81.6m). Other revenues fell by 8.2% to £22.3m (2011: £24.3m).
Cineworld’s box office market share in the combined UK and Irish 
market was 24.7% (2011: 24.8%) making it the second largest 
cinema operator in the UK and Ireland, whilst it remained the 
largest operator in the UK with a box office market share of 25.9% 
(2011: 26.1%) (All market data supplied from Rentrak/EDI). 
Cineworld’s admissions were 0.5m or 1.0% less than the prior year.
Box Ofﬁce
The principal income for Cineworld is box office revenues. 
Marginally lower admissions in the year combined with a better 
average ticket price contributed to a 3.9% increase in box office 
sales to £251.6m. This equated to a 2.2% increase on a gross 
box office basis (inclusive of VAT); whilst the UK and Ireland 
cinema industry as a whole was up 2.8% against the previous 
financial year (Source: Rentrak/EDI).
The average ticket price per admission increased by 5.0% to 
£5.26 (2011: £5.01). This increase resulted in part from annual 
price increases and a higher proportion of adults being admitted 
at full price, reflecting the film mix. These factors were partly 
offset by a lower level of 3D business, a similar level of take up of 
concessionary and discounted tickets and the 10% discount on 
tickets booked online via MyCineworld which was introduced in 
March 2012. The average net ticket price (excluding VAT) of 3D 
was £6.74 compared to 2D of £4.78. Cineworld continued to offer 
its customers good value with the lowest average ticket price of 
any of the major UK cinema groups. In the current economic 
climate there remained a notable proportion of customers who 
took advantage of our lower mid week ticket prices. In 2012 
approximately 26.5% of admissions were for Tuesday and 
Wednesday performances (2011: 27.5%).
The outstanding film of 2012 was “Skyfall”, which to date has 
grossed in excess of £100m. Alongside “Skyfall”, “The Dark 
Knight Rises” and “Marvel Avengers Assemble” were the two 
other films which exceeded £50m each in the UK and Ireland box 
office. There were also strong performances from blockbusters 
such as “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey”, “Twilight Saga: 
Breaking Dawn – Part 2”, “Ted” and “Ice Age: Continental Drift”, 
which all performed above or in line with industry expectations. 
Excluding Picturehouse, Cineworld largely maintained its box 
office market share in the UK in 2012. This was despite the 
acquisitions of cinemas by both Odeon and Vue in the year and 
the dominance of blockbuster films which traditionally favour the 
programming strategies of Cineworld’s main competitors. 3D 
films continued to contribute a sizeable proportion of overall film 
business with 37 films released in 3D the same number as in 
2011. The 3D format continued to remain popular, although  
some value-seeking customers and particularly families, had  
a preference for the 2D format. Film studios continue to be 
selective over what films are released in the 3D format, 
concentrating on proven themes involving action, fantasy and 
animation and appealing to the older teenage and young adult 
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer 13
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
audience. This is resulting in the number of 3D titles and the 
proportion of national box office stabilising at 22% (2011: 23%). 
The most notable 3D films in 2012, and examples of this trend, 
were “Marvel Avengers Assemble”, “Ice Age: Continental Drift” 
and “The Amazing Spider-Man”.
We remained true to our strategy of offering customers the 
broadest range of films on the market. There were a number of 
smaller and mid range films that performed well during the year 
including: “End of Watch”, “Katy Perry: Part of Me”, and “Cabin in 
the Woods”. As is to be expected, because of our film 
programming strategy, we achieved higher individual market 
shares on these films than our overall market average. We also 
remained the biggest exhibitor of Bollywood films in the UK with a 
market share in excess of 50%. Popularity of this genre remains 
high with films such as “Jab Tak Hai Jaan” and “Ek Tha Tiger” 
released during the year. In addition, other specialised and foreign 
language films were played, such as “The Raid”. We were also the 
exclusive UK exhibitor for some Polish titles.
Alternative Content
We continued to make good progress during the year in developing 
our alternative content offering which has been made possible by 
our digital conversion programme. In the field of the performing 
arts, our core live opera and theatre product came from the New 
York Metropolitan Opera, the National Theatre and the Royal Opera 
House, all of which were well attended. Cineworld Cinemas also 
showed some operatic performances from Glyndebourne during 
the year for which Picturehouse acted as distributor. As a one-off 
event, the men’s and women’s singles finals of the tennis at 
Wimbledon were shown again live in 3D and we also showed live 
boxing. Looking forward, we will be trialling a variety of live events 
from The Comedy Store season to a live tour of the Pompeii 
exhibition at the British Museum and now have the technical 
capability to screen other live events at short notice. The scope of 
alternative content is expanding though it remains a niche offering 
and a relatively small contributor to box office revenues.
Retail
Food and drink sales to our customers are the second most 
important source of revenue and represent 23% of total  
revenues. Total retail revenues were marginally better at  
£82.3m (2011: £81.6m).
Net retail spend per person improved 1.8% in the year to £1.72 
(2011: £1.69) reflecting the targeted promotions and the film 
slate. As expected, our customers remained highly value conscious 
given the tough consumer environment and we successfully 
responded with a series of value initiatives such as the “Bargain 
Tuesday/Orange Wednesday Combo” and the “Family Combo” 
offers as well as the “Christmas Gift Box”. We introduced 
discounts of 10% for Unlimited subscribers with 25% discounts on 
most products for all premium members (those with more than 
12 months’ membership). We also ran a number of successful 
partnership initiatives with suppliers involving special price deals 
and product sampling.
During the year we made progress in developing our coffee offer. 
At the end of March we opened a full Starbucks coffee franchise 
at our Sheffield cinema and a second franchise at our Crawley 
cinema in November. Both outlets have traded above 
expectations and continue to grow revenues. As a result we have 
plans to provide Starbucks coffee in more locations in 2013 
through a varied range of offers from full franchises to single 
counter service offers.
Other Income
Other Income includes all other revenue streams outside box 
office and retail and represents about 6.3% of total revenues. It 
fell 8.2% to £22.3m (2011: £24.3m).
The largest single element of Other Income is screen advertising 
revenue. Trading at Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”), our 
joint venture screen advertising business formed in July 2008, 
was marginally better than the previous year but continued to 
reflect the difficult trading environment within the wider 
advertising industry. The final quarter of the year benefitted 
significantly from the advertising opportunities from “Skyfall”.
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising time on cinema 
screens on behalf of Cineworld Cinemas, Picturehouse and its 
other clients. It also engages in related promotional work between 
advertisers and cinemas. The management team at DCM has 
been driving operational efficiencies and effectiveness and, 
during the year, has been working on repositioning the operations 
to handle the digital format. All the three major circuits, 
Cineworld, Odeon and Vue became fully digitised during 2012, 
providing DCM the opportunity to increase scale and potentially 
open up new segments of the market.
Other Income included sales of 3D glasses, ticket bookings and 
theatre hires. Much of the fall in income was due to the removal 
of booking fees which coincided with the relaunch of the 
MyCineworld online membership programme in March 2012. 
Sales of 3D glasses continued to soften, which reflected fewer 
3D admissions compared with the previous year and more 
customers re-using their purchased glasses, which demonstrate 
the success of our initiative to encourage their re-use rather than 
disposal. In 2012, approximately 50% of customers attending 3D 
performances were still purchasing 3D glasses, which was a 
reduction on the 2011 level of about 55%.
Picturehouse
On 6 December 2012 the Group acquired the Picturehouse 
cinema chain for £47.3m. It comprised of 21 cinemas focusing on 
a different audience from Cineworld Cinemas, with the cinemas 
being smaller (all have five or fewer screens) and more individual.
Whilst blockbuster films may be shown at these cinemas, 
non-mainstream and specialised films are central to its 
programming as an arthouse cinema chain. The cinemas tend to 
be located in urban areas with a high student, affluent and 
diverse, adult orientated population. Food and drink is a key 
differentiator and some have bars and food operations which  14
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

form a significant proportion of a cinema’s total business. 
Cinemas tend to have their own individual styles and provide a 
unique ambience compared with that of a multiplex cinema and 
appeal to students and a more mature audience that requires a 
different retail and film choice. Typical Picturehouse customers 
will tend to visit as a social occasion or as a cultural outing rather 
than purely to view films and therefore require a more personal 
cinema going experience.
The market in which Picturehouse operates is distinct to those of 
Cineworld Cinemas. There is growing demand from older and from 
more affluent cinema goers and Picturehouse is well positioned to 
capitalise on this more specialised sector of the cinema market 
under its own brand and management.
Since acquisition, Picturehouse has traded in line with 
expectations. As stated at the time of announcing the acquisition, 
Picturehouse continues to be run under separate management 
who will develop the brand and pipeline of new cinemas.
While Cineworld Cinemas and Picturehouse are complementary 
brands which operate in separate markets, common ownership 
will allow the realisation of a number of valuable synergies. The 
Picturehouse acquisition is a sign of our strategic intent to grow 
the Group and we will continue to look for suitable expansionary 
opportunities that are in the best interests of our shareholders.
The acquisition of Picturehouse is currently under review by the 
Office of Fair Trading. The review is expected to be completed by 
the end of the first half 2013.
Other Cinema Expansion
One of the key strategic priorities of the Group remains 
expansion. We continue to maintain the financial capability to 
pursue such opportunities aided by the cash generative nature of 
our business model.
In October 2012, as scheduled, we opened a seven screen 
cinema in Aldershot, which increased Cineworld Cinemas’ estate 
to 80 cinemas with 818 screens. We have plans to open four new 
cinemas in 2013 under the Cineworld brand. Work has begun on 
site for a nine screen cinema in a new development at Wembley 
and we are on schedule to commence work on a six screen 
cinema in St Neots, a ten screen replacement cinema in 
Gloucester and we have recently reached an agreement to take 
over the existing IMAX cinema at the Glasgow Science Centre.
Whilst the uncertainty over development financing and timing of 
new projects continues, we have seen improvements in 
confidence in the property market during the year with renewed 
interest in existing proposals as well as new plans and ideas 
being tabled. Our strong financial position and our good track 
record of driving high footfalls through our cinemas make us an 
attractive partner for property developers. We have over 14 
further development sites signed or in legal negotiation and have 
a good pipeline of further opportunities to achieve our target of 
25 new Cineworld Cinemas between 2013 and 2017.
Initiatives and Developments
As part of our strategy to improve the customer experience 
significant work has happened behind the scenes in improving the 
efficiency of the transaction process for our customers and 
introducing new technology. The internet and mobile technology 
have been a key focus of our attentions over the past few years 
– where we have been working on integrating marketing, booking 
and ticketing activities. At the end of the summer of 2012, we 
completed the upgrade of our cinema point of sale system and 
supporting systems covering finance and customer relationship 
management. These new systems will increase our transactional 
capabilities and support better communication with more of our 
customers.
The Unlimited programme is one of the pillars that underpin our 
strategy of growing other revenues and admissions. At the end of 
2012, there were almost 320,000 members (2011: 280,000), a 
figure which has since increased further. The Unlimited programme 
brings to the Group the financial benefits of regular subscription 
income thereby reducing the level of fluctuation in our revenues 
contributing over 17% of total box office in 2012. It also brings 
operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, often at off-peak 
times. This, in turn, enables us to improve capacity utilisation at 
our cinemas, provide more retail opportunities and allows us to 
offer a wider range of films than our competitors. As a result, we 
continued to enjoy significant market share among the smaller, 
less mainstream films during 2012.
The Group introduced a number of customer related initiatives in 
line with our stated strategy. On 16 March 2012, Cineworld was 
the first major cinema operator in the UK to abolish online 
booking fees. Research showed the fee to be a barrier to booking 
in advance and it was unpopular with our customers. This 
innovation was accompanied by the launch of a 10% reduction in 
the price of tickets for booking online through MyCineworld and 
membership has since increased to over 2.4m members by the 
end of the year.
The growth of MyCineworld is an important part of our strategy to 
engage further with our customers. It will enable us to improve 
our customer retention and help us to encourage more frequent 
visits to our cinemas. We have begun collaborative work with film 
distributors to market films to the MyCineworld base with 
campaigns for “Dark Knight”, “The Hobbit” and “Les Miserables”. 
Furthermore, by transferring bookings online, we aim to improve 
customer service by reducing queues at the box offices and to 
convert more space to other activities which will improve the 
customer experience at our cinemas and help drive incremental 
revenues. The addition of new sites will facilitate the expansion of 
our Unlimited and MyCineworld propositions into new locations, 
thereby growing and consolidating our business further.
Activity on our consumer website continued to increase year on 
year, with 2012 recording over 65m visits. This performance has 
enabled our website to remain in the top 40 most visited websites 
in the UK (as reported in the IMRG Experian Hitwise Hot Shops 
List) for the year. In addition, our successful mobile enabled web  15
Driving increased frequency
Following a successful trial in Scotland for over a year, on March 
16th 2012 Cineworld became the ﬁrst UK Cinema group to remove 
booking fees across the circuit and reduce its prices online by 10% 
for customers who register with MyCineworld. The programme, 
along with Unlimited, is key to our ‘Customer First’ strategy of 
better understanding our customers to provide them with an 
improved customer experience. MyCineworld allows us to drive 
increased frequency by targeting customers with tailored, relevant 
and timely communications and offers. The growth of the 
customer base has been signiﬁcant with a 140% rise in our 
membership base to over 2.4m in 2012. And by encouraging 
customers online we are improving the customer experience in our 
foyers by reducing queues; online admissions now exceed 20% 
which in turn is allowing Cineworld to invest in improving the 
cinema experience in our foyers, introducing Starbucks and other 
opportunities to increase dwell time and spend.
140%

Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
15 UNLIMITED
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
16
320,000

Membership goes from strength 
to strength
Our Unlimited membership scheme is unique within the UK 
cinema industry. Customers can watch Unlimited 2D movies for a 
small monthly subscription and pay a small uplift for 3D, IMAX or 
D-Box movies. Membership has now increased to over 320,000 
subscribers which means Cineworld has a high volume of regular 
customers to all types of ﬁlm – which supports our strategy of 
showing the widest range of content of all the major UK cinema 
chains. In 2012 we successfully re-launched Unlimited delivering  
a re-design of the programme and a new premium card with 
increased beneﬁts for customers who stay with the scheme  
over 12 months to encourage increased loyalty. 17
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

booking service is now complemented by our applications 
(“apps”). During the year, 1.8m iPhone apps and 340,000 
Android phone apps were downloaded reflecting customers’ 
desire to book wherever they are.
During 2012, we increased the number of cinemas offering IMAX 
screens to eight. This has raised our profile in the provision of 
high end cinema viewing with the recognised brand leader which 
attracts a premium ticket price. We have plans to install IMAX at 
more cinemas. In addition we ran a pilot scheme with the D-Box 
seating concept at six cinemas. The D-Box seats provide 
additional sensory experiences for customers and a premium is 
charged over the applicable ticket price.
Investment in Digital
All of Cineworld Cinemas’ estate was converted to digital projection 
by the end of the first half of the year. As the financial benefits to 
film studios of digital were substantial, they offered incentives to 
cinema exhibitors to help fund the conversion. In June 2010 
Cineworld entered into an agreement with Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) 
whereby AAM utilises its Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) agreements with 
film distributors to recover financial contributions over a maximum 
period of ten years, on behalf of Cineworld, from the film studios. 
Under the AAM deal, Cineworld acquired the digital projectors 
directly from a third party and retained full control over the timing 
of their purchase and over their installation and operation.
Over approximately seven years, VPFs are expected to cover a 
substantial proportion of the total acquisition cost of about 
£40m. The VPFs are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of 
film hire thereby benefiting EBITDA. To date the overall VPF 
process between Cineworld, AAM and the film distributors has 
operated successfully. We will continue to receive VPFs over the 
contract period to recover most of the cost of investment.
People and Diversity
Our people are core to the success of our business and remain  
a strategic priority. Developing and retaining people help to make 
Cineworld a great place to work. We continued to invest in our 
people throughout the Group. Our people have opportunities at  
all levels from Apprenticeships, through the Step Up programmes 
(helping to improve staff succession) up to The Academy 
programme for high potential cinema managers. To date 
approximately 85% of cinema managers were promoted from 
internal applicants.
We are an equal opportunity employer and seek to recruit, retain 
and promote staff on the basis of their qualifications, skills, 
aptitude and attitude. A wide range of applicants are encouraged 
to apply for all roles and we have a wide and diverse workforce. 
We still believe that the single most important factor is to identify, 
recruit and retain the people we consider, on merit, to be the best 
candidates for each particular role.
Key Business Relationships
Cineworld Cinemas has worked hard at developing good working 
relationships with a wide range of film studios, both major and 
independent. Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on 
providing our customers with a wide range of films through our film 
strategy has resulted in many opportunities for us to work with film 
studios on simplifying the film buying process and on promoting 
smaller films to a wider audience. We also work closely on 
combating film piracy, in association with the Cinema Exhibitors’ 
Association and The Federation Against Copyright Theft.
We build relationships with developers, landlords and council 
planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new sites for 
the future. In addition, we work closely with our principal 
suppliers, on promotions that help drive ticket and retail sales. 
We seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly and to 
work in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our ethical 
policy, a cornerstone of which is treating others as you expect to 
be treated yourself.
Our successful participation in Tesco’s Clubcard loyalty 
programme continued to thrive and during 2012 we remained the 
only cinema partner. During the year, we also became the 
exclusive cinema gift card partner with Morrison’s. These 
partnerships help to promote and reinforce Cineworld Cinemas 
brand profile nationally.
The Environment and Health and Safety
Being a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its total 
energy consumption and the amount of waste materials 
generated, and is actively working to reduce both energy usage 
and the quantity of waste materials produced that cannot be 
recycled. During 2012, there was a continued focus on raising 
energy awareness at cinema sites with the aim to promote best 
practice and to reduce energy usage through better housekeeping 
and operating more efficiently.
Collectively all the measures undertaken by Cineworld Cinemas 
during 2012 to limit gas and electricity consumption reduced its 
carbon footprint across 78 comparable sites by 3.6% in 2011/12 
(2010/11: 5.5% across 73 sites). To continue the process during 
2013, seven sites have been selected for trial projects with 
remote energy building management systems and voltage 
optimisation with savings projected to be over 15% per site.
With over 47m customer visits, the safety and welfare of 
Cineworld’s customers, staff and contractors are of prime 
importance. Annual cinema audits covering Fire, Food and Health 
and Safety are undertaken on an unannounced basis in order to 
reflect the true operation of health and safety at each site. Overall, 
the continuous focus on health and safety in 2012 have resulted 
in further improvements in site standards compared to last year.
Key Trends and Factors Potentially Affecting the Future
The future success of the Group in 2013 will principally remain 
dependent on the strength of the film releases during the year. 
Sequels and franchises will continue to contribute a significant 
number of the higher profile blockbuster films. The “Harry Potter” 
series has ended but has been replaced with “The Hobbit” for the 
next two years. Similarly “The Twilight” series has been followed  18
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
by “The Hunger Games” as an alternative for the same female and 
teenage audience. Many such films outperform the original film or 
concept, so the film studios will continue to look to capitalise on 
proven successful formulae. The outstanding success of “Marvel 
Avengers Assemble” will provide further impetus to advance the 
related characters including “Iron Man”, “Thor”, “Captain America” 
and “The Hulk”. Resurrected past characters and franchises in 
2012 have proven successful such as “Men in Black 3” and 
“Spiderman”. The film release programme for 2013 includes an 
increased number of potential (albeit smaller) blockbusters with 
new and existing franchises and sequels. In the past, Cineworld 
has typically achieved a higher market share in such smaller 
blockbusters and mid range films than on the larger blockbusters 
such as “Harry Potter” and “Skyfall”.
While initial limited trials of video on demand have been 
unsuccessful in the past and with no notable trials conducted in 
2012, such initiatives are expected to continue, which may 
reopen the debate on the current theatrical release window in 
which new films are only shown in the cinema before being 
released via other media.
The non US markets for Hollywood film studios continue to grow 
faster than the US domestic market. The UK is an important 
market for the US studios and the natural link in the marketing 
chain of English language films. Increasingly blockbuster films are 
being filmed in more international locations and featuring more 
varied international cultures, which used to be confined to films 
such as “James Bond”, to help increase the appeal to audiences 
in the UK. Equally, the success of UK films such as the Bond 
franchise and the “The King’s Speech”, together with the stable 
level of cinema going in the UK should further encourage 
Hollywood to support both locally produced product and product 
that appeals to the UK and Irish market.
It is anticipated that 2013 overall will see a similar number of 3D 
films compared to 2012. Studios have also started to convert 
some older film titles to 3D, thereby adding to the range of 3D 
film choice. With completion of our conversion to digital projection 
in 2012, we are well placed to capitalise on this product. The 
price differential between 3D and 2D films is expected to continue 
and, should help support the overall revenue levels. Films based 
on action, fantasy and animation and appealing to an older 
teenage and young adult audience, such as “Marvel Avengers 
Assemble”, have had the highest take up of 3D whilst those which 
appealed to younger children tend to attract a lower proportion of 
3D business. However falling 3D production costs should help to 
ensure such films continue to be produced in the 3D format.
Results have shown that there are opportunities to serve 
customer demand for more specialist formats such as IMAX and 
D-Box and, whilst still in their infancy, films produced in High 
Frame Rate and 4K definition such as “The Hobbit: An 
Unexpected Journey” and “Skyfall” may gain in popularity in the 
future. All of which will encourage further investment.
Within alternative content, plays and opera will continue to 
provide solid business through established providers such as the 
New York Metropolitan Opera and the National Theatre. Otherwise 
the source of alternative content still remains fragmented. 
Stabilisation and consolidation amongst suppliers should 
increase the range of content, improve the operational delivery 
and result in financial savings. The completion of Cineworld 
Cinemas’ conversion to digital projection will improve utilisation of 
screens for a variety of non-feature film content and improve the 
ability to bring content to the screen in shorter time. Revenues 
from alternative content are anticipated to grow further, having 
grown significantly from 2011, albeit from a small base.
The general economic and consumer environment is expected to 
remain uncertain for the foreseeable future and will continue to 
present trading challenges. The higher ticket prices charged on 
3D films will invariably mean that some segments of the customer 
base will choose to see 2D for cost reasons. We expect that the 
strong mid week business enjoyed through “Bargain Tuesdays” 
and “Orange Wednesdays” promotions will continue.
Demand in the wider advertising industry is anticipated to remain 
challenging, which would be reflected in cinema screen 
advertising. However full digital conversion by DCM’s major 
exhibitor clients (Cineworld, Odeon and Vue) in 2012 is 
anticipated to improve DCM’s competitive position and support 
its objective of gaining a larger share of advertisers’ budgets 
especially retail, which is a sector largely unexploited in cinema 
advertising.
Finance for many continues to be challenging which could delay 
the development of new cinemas, though more developments are 
beginning to gain momentum. Nevertheless part of the Group’s 
strategy is to continue expanding our businesses, through 
acquisition and organically, aided by the Group’s strong financial 
position. The acquisition of Picturehouse provides a new and 
additional channel for expansion in the arthouse market under the 
Picturehouse brand and the existing pipeline of new multiplex 
cinemas is also increasing.
Cineworld will continue to offer a highly compelling choice within 
the wider range of entertainment and leisure activities. We believe 
going to the cinema remains one of the best value forms of 
popular entertainment and will continue to attract audiences who 
seek quality film product and where the immersive viewing 
experience remains unmatched by any other media.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  
 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
19
Improving our retail offer
In March 2012 Cineworld launched their first licensed coffee shop in 
partnership with Starbucks at Cineworld Sheffield. This is a very busy 
site on our circuit with over 20 screens. Delivered on time and to 
budget, the resulting offer immediately started trading well ahead 
of expectations at almost twice the forecast level. As a result, we 
opened a second Starbucks in Crawley in November 2012, again 
trading well ahead of expectations. 
 
The success of these sites shows the strength of the combination  
of high footfall cinema and a well-known coffee brand. We are 
currently working closely with Starbucks on the roll out of further 
stores and single counter service offers to increase the number  
of locations where Starbucks is available. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
20
Delivering a great cinema experience
In October 2011, Cineworld signed their first contract for three IMAX 
screens within the estate to bring the world’s most immersive 
cinema experience to our customers. The first of these opened in 
December 2011 in Cineworld Edinburgh followed by Sheffield and 
Crawley in March 2012. All three quickly exceeded expectations with 
Sheffield being the most successful new IMAX screen globally in 
2012 (out of 122) and 17th overall out of over 700 screens in only  
ten months of trading! Following such success, we signed a further 
agreement for an additional five sites in Cineworld Birmingham, 
Enfield, Dublin, Nottingham and Ipswich, all of which opened 
successfully before the end of 2012 and are trading well. We are 
planning to bring the IMAX experience to more sites in the future.
8

 21
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

The following commentary on the profitability, cash flow and 
balance sheet focuses on the Cineworld Group including 
Picturehouse, except where stated.
EBITDA and Operating Proﬁt
Group EBITDA was up 6.0% at £67.1m (2011: £63.3m) and was 
achieved through higher revenues. Virtual print fee income was 
higher than the previous year with more digital prints being shown 
due to more digital projectors installed (the conversion having 
been completed during the year) which in turn helped to increase 
the number of film titles played. These were offset by an increase 
in film hire costs on box office revenues due to the mix of film 
product, lower sales of 3D glasses and the removal of the 
booking fees in the Cineworld cinemas. In addition there were 
higher energy and property costs as well as general increases in 
other operating costs. Operating profit at £44.2m was 3.8% 
higher (2011: £42.6m).
Operating profit included a number of non-recurring and non-trade 
related costs. There were transaction and reorganisation costs of 
£1.1m which related to the Picturehouse acquisition. The charge 
of £1.6m under onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 
comprised charges to onerous lease provisions due to changes in 
future trading assumptions. An asset impairment review resulted 
in £0.3m asset write downs at weaker performing cinemas. Other 
non-recurring income relates to a credit of £2.0m in respect of 
VAT reclaims, and there was a £0.4m charge in respect to 
changes to technical assumptions in valuing the defined benefit 
pension scheme.
The total depreciation and amortisation charge (included in 
administrative expenses) in the period of £21.5m was higher than 
last year (2011: £18.9m), reflecting the higher expenditure on 
digital projectors to date and £0.8m of accelerated depreciation 
of replaced assets.
Finance Costs
The net financing costs of £5.6m were markedly lower than prior 
year of £9.2m. The overall charge included £1.0m credit on the 
expiry of one of three interest rate swaps in May which 
necessitated a reclassification of the closing derivative value from 
equity to the income statement. The expiry of the swap also 
resulted in a lower overall interest rate going forward and, 
together with proactive cash management during the year, 
produced a reduced interest expense of £8.2m compared with 
the prior year of £9.7m. The financial expenses comprised of 
£4.9m in relation to interest on the bank loans and the balance of 
the financial expenses were non cash amounts arising from the 
amortisation of financing costs, the unwinding of discount on 
onerous leases, the pension scheme and from the finance lease. 
The financial income of £1.6m reported in 2012 and 2011 was 
primarily from the actuarial valuation of the returns on the defined 
benefit pension plan assets.
Financial Performance
52 week period ended  
27 December 2012
52 week period  
ended 
29 December 
2011  
Total
Group  
Total
 Picturehouse
2
 
 Total
Cineworld  
Total
Admissions 48.0m 0.2m 47.8m 48.3m
£m £m £m £m
Box office 252.6 1.0 251.6 242.1
Retail 82.8 0.5 82.3 81.6
Other 23.3 1.0 22.3 24.3
Total revenue 358.7 2.5 356.2 348.0
EBITDA
1
67.1 0.5 66.6 63.3
Operating profit 44.2 42.6
Financial income 1.6 1.6
Financial expenses (8.2) (9.7)
Net change in fair value of cashflow hedge reclassified from equity 1.0 (1.1)
Net financing costs (5.6) (9.2)
Share of loss from joint venture (0.1) –
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 38.5 33.4
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (10.8) (9.5)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 27.7 23.9
1 EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash 
property charges, transaction, pensions, refinancing and reorganisation costs.
2 Picturehouse results consolidated for 22 days covering 6 December 2012 to 27 December 2012. 22
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

Earnings
Overall profit on ordinary activities before tax was £38.5m, 15.3% 
higher than 2011 of £33.4m. Basic diluted earnings per share 
amounted to 19.1p (2011: 16.7p). Taking account of the one-off, 
non trade related items described above, totalling £3.2m and the 
credit of £1.0m relating to the expiry of an interest rate swap 
(included in net financing costs), the adjusted pro-forma diluted 
earnings per share were 21.2p (using a normalised tax rate of 
24.5%) compared with 2011 of 19.2p. The weighted average 
number of shares in issue in 2012 was 143.1m including 
7,270,575 shares issued during the year.
Taxation
The overall tax charge was £10.8m giving an overall effective tax 
rate of 28.0% for the year (2011: 28.4%) which reflects the 
declining trend of the headline corporation tax rate. The 
corporation tax charge in respect of the current year was £10.0m. 
There was a credit of £0.6m relating to prior years, which was 
offset by £1.4m of deferred tax charges principally relating to 
capital allowances (the difference between the tax written down 
value of the capital allowance and the net book value of the 
underlying assets).
Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
The Group continued to be strongly cash generative at the 
operating level. Total cash generated from operations was 
£67.0m compared with £55.3m in 2011 primarily due to the 
better trading levels which also resulted in higher creditor levels 
at the end of 2012 compared with 2011.
The raising of £16.4m through the share issue helped to offset 
the cash paid for the acquisition of Picturehouse of £43.7m. Net 
cash spent on capital for the year was £31.1m. Included in this 
cash expenditure was £8.5m in relation to the purchase of digital 
projectors and £4.9m on IMAX, £8.8m on new systems 
implementation (including the replacement of the cinema point of 
sale system and upgrading automated ticket sales points), £6.6m 
on refurbishments and maintenance and £0.5m (net of £2.3m 
reverse premium) was spent on the new site in Aldershot. The 
balance of other capital expenditure of £1.8m was for equipment 
replacements and expenditure on various initiatives. The high 
level of internally generated cash has funded our entire capital 
expenditure whilst repaying term debt of £5m and paying 
dividends of £16.0m.
Net debt increased to £126.9m at the end of 2012 (2011: 
£101.4m) as a result of the net impact of drawing down of 
£32.3m from existing facilities to part fund the acquisition of 
Picturehouse, £3.9m acquired debt as a result of the acquisition 
offset by the £5m repayment of term debt.
Overall, net assets increased to £188.6m (2011: £160.3m). This 
includes the recognition of fair value of net assets acquired with 
Picturehouse totalling £24.1m and the residual goodwill 
recognised on acquisition of £19.6m. Due to the ongoing review 
by the Office of Fair Trading and the close proximity of the 
transaction to the year end, these values have been included on  
a provisional basis. The fair values are required to be finalised 
within 12 months of acquisition, with any adjustments to fair 
value being recognised in goodwill.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for approval a 
final dividend in respect of the period ended 27 December 2012 of 
8.0p per share, which taken together with the interim dividend of 
3.8p per share paid in October 2012, gives a total dividend in 
respect of 2012 of 11.8p per share, a 0.8p increase on the level 
in 2011. Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be 
paid on 4 July 2013 to shareholders on the register at 7 June 2013.
Board Changes
Tom McGrath has decided to step down at the Annual General 
Meeting on 15 May 2013 and not stand for re-election. He has been a 
Non-Executive Director since May 2005. Tom joined the Company 
prior to its listing in 2007 and has brought a breadth of knowledge 
and experience, particularly of the US film and cinema industry.
Rick Senat and Martina King have been appointed as additional 
members of the Nominations Committee and Rick will become 
Chairman when Tom steps down. Martina has also been appointed 
to the Audit Committee and Rick to the Remuneration Committee.
Current Trading and Outlook
The current financial year has started strongly. A good level of 
business carried over from the Christmas period with the main 
films being “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” and “Life of Pi”. 
“Skyfall” also continued to play well in the New Year, given that it 
was released in late October. Trading at the beginning of the year 
also received a strong boost from the release of “Les Miserables” 
which has performed well. Films such as “Impossible”, “Wreck it 
Ralph”, “A Good Day to Die Hard” and “Django Unchained” have 
also helped to underpin the strong start.
There is a promising film release schedule for the remainder of 
2013 which we expect to complement our programming strategy, 
and in contrast to the previous year, there are no major events 
which are anticipated to provide a distraction for cinemagoers, 
with a more even spread of films across the year. Amongst those 
films planned for release are a number of proven franchises 
including “Star Trek: Into Darkness”, “The Hobbit Part 2”, “Man of 
Steel”, “Iron Man 3” and “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire”. This 
release schedule for the rest of the year together with other 
potential opportunities for the business means we are confident 
of our prospects in the year ahead.
Stephen Wiener   Philip Bowcock
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
7 March 2013 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
23
THE
ACADEMY
premiere management training
Developing our people, 
effectiveness and efﬁciencies
Cineworld’s people are crucial to the ongoing success of the 
business and the implementation of our ‘Customer First’ strategy. 
We aim to ensure that Cineworld is a great place to work and, in 
turn, a great place to watch ﬁlms. Market leading in-house training 
and succession programmes shows Cineworld’s commitment to 
developing its people and plays an important role in ensuring 
business continuity. Cineworld is proud that a high proportion of 
manager and supervisor positions are held by people who initially 
started at the entry levels in cinema. Apprenticeships, Succession 
Programmes and The Academy form part of a structure 
development programme across all levels of the business and 
means that, when vacancies arise, internal candidates are well 
placed to secure advancement resulting in a high internal 
promotion rate of 80% across all positions.
80%




