 Chief Executive’s review
2014 has been transformational for Circassia. In March, 
we raised over £200 million through a successful IPO, and 
now have the funds to accelerate our late-stage clinical 
portfolio and establish the infrastructure to independently 
commercialise our first next generation allergy treatment. 
During the year, we made good progress towards meeting 
these goals. We completed recruitment for our phase III 
Cat-SPIRE registration study, which remains on track to 
report in H1 2016, and completed five further clinical trials 
across our portfolio. We are committed to bringing our 
innovative allergy products to market, and during the year 
we began to build our commercial organisation. With the  
US allergy immunotherapy marketplace opening up to new 
treatment approaches, we are well positioned to exploit  
the growing interest in this poorly served field.
Advancing our portfolio
Our novel SPIRE treatments offer significant potential benefits 
compared with existing immunotherapies, in both seasonal and 
perennial allergies. During 2014, we made good clinical progress 
with our portfolio, completing studies across our development 
programmes. We also completed recruitment into our pivotal  
phase III CATALYST study, recruiting 19% more subjects than our 
initial minimum target, and extending the trial to Russia to support  
a potential future filing in this significant market. We have a further  
six clinical trials ongoing, and anticipate completing three of these 
by the end of this year, and our CATALYST study in the first half  
of 2016. 
Encouraging results
The results from the studies we completed in 2014 continued to 
confirm the potential of our short-course treatments to improve 
patients’ allergy symptoms. During the year, we received positive 
long-term data from two of our programmes. These showed 
ongoing efficacy in two-year and three-season follow-ups with our 
HDM-SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE treatments respectively, despite 
subjects not receiving any further doses. 
In December, we announced top-line chamber results from a 
Ragweed-SPIRE phase IIb study. The results suggested we 
may not yet have tested the optimal dose for this treatment, and 
a higher dose may be necessary to achieve greater symptom 
improvements. This conclusion was supported by encouraging 
field results from the same study. We intend to capitalise on these 
learnings by conducting a longer-term follow-up of these subjects 
in the field, and to use the insights we gain in the design of a dose 
ranging study, before moving Ragweed-SPIRE into phase III. 
Establishing our infrastructure
With our lead product on track to complete its registration study 
next year, we plan to file for marketing approval, dependent on 
the results, in the second half of 2016. Consequently, we have 
completed the manufacturing scale-up for commercial supply 
and begun marketing preparations to ensure a successful launch. 
We intend to commercialise our products independently in key 
markets, and to partner elsewhere, and during 2014 we made 
good progress in implementing this approach. We are recruiting 
medical science liaisons in the US and the five largest EU markets 
to establish links with allergists, opinion leaders and payers, and 
intend to complement this team with market access and marketing 
specialists, as we begin major global research to inform our core 
marketing plans. 
Robust financial position
Following our successful flotation in 2014, we have maintained 
a strong balance sheet and remain fully funded to complete our 
phase III study and bring our first innovative new allergy treatment 
to market. During the year, we accelerated the clinical development 
of our pipeline, and substantially expanded our R&D team to 
support this activity. As a result, our R&D investment increased 
significantly, reaching £38.6 million, up from £21.1 million the 
year before. With £186.6 million of cash and deposits at the end 
of the year, we are well positioned to continue investing in our 
development programmes to deliver on the promise of our unique 
product candidates. 
Positive outlook
During 2014, the allergy market continued to develop. In the US, 
the FDA approved a number of sublingual immunotherapies, which 
will be promoted by significant players Merck and Greer. This is 
an important opportunity to open the market to new treatment 
approaches, and provide renewed vigour to a field that has been 
largely ignored for many years. Both of these companies have 
announced robust pricing for their new products, which supports 
our research suggesting Circassia’s novel therapies have a major 
commercial opportunity. This positive outlook is further supported 
by a payer study we undertook during 2014. The results show 
pricing for Cat-SPIRE may be greater than the $2,600 per course 
indicated in our previous research, which suggested a peak sales 
opportunity of over $500 million for the product in the US alone. 
Following a year of strong progress in 2014, we look forward to 
continuing our positive momentum in the year ahead. We plan to 
complete three clinical studies to support phase III programmes 
for Cat-SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE, to fully recruit subjects for our 
HDM-SPIRE field study and to advance Ragweed-SPIRE towards 
phase III. At the same time, we intend to establish the foundations 
of a strong commercial team to prepare for our first product launch. 
With the allergy market entering an exciting period, the outlook is 
extremely encouraging. 
Steve Harris
Chief Executive
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 10
