 Chairman’s statement
The last year has been a period of great transformation  
for Circassia. We successfully listed on the London  
Stock Exchange, raising over £200 million and completing 
the UK’s largest ever biotech Initial Public Offering  
(IPO) fundraising. During 2014, we have been putting  
this investment to work, undertaking studies in all our  
late-stage clinical programmes and building the team  
to support our anticipated first product launch. As a result, 
we are increasingly well positioned to capitalise on the 
significant potential value offered by our innovative  
allergy treatments. 
IPO strategy
Our IPO in early 2014 represents a step-change in our ambitions to 
bring our products to market, and follows several years of strong 
progress as a private company. Since Circassia was established in 
2006, we successfully completed a number of clinical studies and 
advanced our lead allergy treatment into phase III development, 
supported by £105 million of pre-IPO investment from highly 
supportive technology commercialisation and institutional investors. 
In late 2013, with our phase III programme ongoing, we received 
encouraging clinical results that presented the opportunity to 
accelerate our strategy and seek the significant funding needed  
to develop our late-stage clinical products in parallel, and also  
make the preparations to independently commercialise our first 
product in the US and key EU markets. This strategy was strongly 
supported by investors, and Circassia came to the public market  
in March 2014. 
2014: a year of progress
During the last year, we have continued to build the foundations 
required to bring our novel allergy treatments to the marketplace, 
and have made good progress towards our objective of creating a 
successful, self-sustaining specialty biopharmaceutical company. 
We completed a number of encouraging long-term follow-up 
studies, maintained the progress of our phase III study and  
gained important insights from our ragweed allergy programme 
that are informing our next steps. In addition, we have begun  
the commercial infrastructure build to support a successful  
product launch. 
Maintaining momentum
In the coming year, we plan to maintain the momentum established 
in 2014, both clinically and commercially. We anticipate advancing 
our grass allergy treatment towards phase III development and 
completing recruitment into our phase IIb field study in house  
dust mite allergy. We also plan to advance our commercial strategy, 
building our capabilities in key markets and exploring potential 
acquisitions that could accelerate our commercial ambitions. 
Overall, we are ensuring preparations are in place for 2016, when 
we anticipate results from the pivotal phase III study of our cat 
allergy treatment. 
Encouraging outlook
Looking to the longer term, the outlook is highly encouraging, 
with the marketplace undergoing positive developments after a 
long period of inactivity. Indeed, for much of the pharmaceutical 
industry, the allergy field had been of little strategic interest for many 
years. Whole allergen immunotherapy, which remains the mainstay 
of disease-modifying treatment, was first used over 100 years ago, 
and with no major breakthroughs in the intervening decades, the 
allergy field was poorly served. 
However, this situation is changing rapidly. During 2014, the  
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved three new sublingual 
whole allergen immunotherapies for grass and ragweed allergies, 
opening the market to new treatment approaches. With these 
products now promoted by significant industry players, the  
allergy market appears set to gather significant momentum.  
We believe this creates a major opportunity for Circassia, as  
our treatments have a number of significant potential benefits  
over existing products, including those launched recently.  
In the coming years, we intend to capitalise on these positive 
developments by bringing our own treatments to market 
and transforming Circassia into a successful specialty 
biopharmaceutical commercial business. 
Dr Francesco Granata
Chairman
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 02
