 It was an honour to have been asked to chair this fascinating enterprise last June and it gives me great pleasure to
be providing the first Chairman’s statement of Circle Holdings plc (‘Circle’, the ‘Group’) since it was admitted to
trading on the Alternative Investment Market (‘AIM’) of the London Stock Exchange. The Group’s unique model in
healthcare of sharing ownership between capital and labour has continued to attract widespread attention and
acclaim. While still a work in progress, the past year has seen a number of key milestones that underpin Circle’s
potential as an effective and successful commercial model.
Key achievements
On a like for like basis, increasing operational revenues, patient volumes, and ongoing implementation against our
pipeline of projects signal that the Group is on track in its ambitious programme to redefine UK healthcare.
The Group’s current flagship hospital, CircleBath, has made important strides in providing proof of concept. The
positive impact of clinician engagement and exceptional patient service has been powerfully demonstrated in
increasing market share, revenues and gross margins. In addition, clinical results and customer satisfaction have
been maintained at very high levels across all our hospital sites. On key benchmarks such as readmission rates after
day surgery and patient recommendations, the Group has enjoyed remarkable success.
Highlights
The Group’s admission to AIM in June 2011 signalled its increasing maturity. Its ability to attract over £53,000,000
(before costs) of new investment during the year through equity investments from existing and new shareholders,
at a time of considerable political risk and market volatility, speaks volumes for the uniqueness and strength of the
business model.
A key landmark in the past year was the signing of the formal contract to manage the Hinchingbrooke Health Care
NHS Trust (‘Hinchingbrooke’), which commenced at the beginning of February 2012. The Group has brought its
proven strengths to the task and the early indications in terms of feedback and metrics are very encouraging. The
Circle approach of clinician leadership, staff engagement, a customer centric ethos and re-engineering processes to
drive productivity and enhance patient experience is already transforming the hospital. In addition, patient numbers
at CircleBath have continued to grow and our overall business strategy is developing well.
The Board
Concurrent with the listing, a Board was formed with a majority of independent Directors. The Board now consists
of four independent Non-Executive Directors, two Non-Executive Directors representing major institutional
investors in Circle, along with the three Executive Directors.
I was delighted to be able to attract Lorraine Baldry, Peter Cornell and Andrew Shilston to the Board. Each of them
brings extraordinary and diverse experience and maturity to our deliberations and I am confident that the
governance of Circle is in good hands.
Likewise, at this stage in the development of the Group, we benefit greatly from the insights and perspectives of
institutional shareholder representation on our Board. Tim Bunting and Jamie Wood are important and intelligent
contributors to our collective thinking.
The engagement of the new Non-Executive Directors with the co-founders of Circle, Chief Executive Officer Ali
Parsa and Chief Medical Officer Massoud Fouladi, and with Chief Financial Officer Paolo Pieri, has resulted in a
constructive and cohesive approach to the Group’s opportunities and challenges.
I am delighted and privileged to be working with such a strong combination of talent, expertise and experience.
2                                                                                                                                                                           Circle Holdings plc Annual Report
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011
158816 Halo - Report and Accounts Pt1_158816 Halo - Report and Accounts Pt1  31/05/2012  22:05  Page 2 The Team
The differentiating element of Circle is the quality and engagement of the people within the Group. Whether in the
executive or administrative teams, or in our hospital operations, it is the skill and commitment of the wider group
that will ultimately determine our future success. The Circle Partnership under the leadership of Massoud and Ali is
executing the vision and the Board and I would like to recognise their central importance to the Circle business
model.
The Group recognises that to create an enterprise of scale, three ingredients need to be brought together and
incentivised in fair measure: entrepreneurial drive, employee passion and financial resources. To that end, the Group
is focused on ensuring the model continues to incentivise all parties appropriately.
The Outlook
I believe that there are significant opportunities for the Group as a new and distinctive player in the UK healthcare
space. The recent conditional agreement to raise a further £47,500,000 is testament to the confidence that our new
and existing investors have in the Group’s prospects. This fully finances the business for the medium term, allowing
the management to fully exploit the market opportunity. With the support of the Board, the Executive team, the
Circle Partnership and our external constituencies, I remain confident that we will make further progress in the
coming year.
Michael Kirkwood, CMG
Chairman
29 May 2012
Circle Holdings plc Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                           3
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2011
158816 Halo - Report and Accounts Pt1_158816 Halo - Report and Accounts Pt1  31/05/2012  22:05  Page 3
