 6     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     7
We achieved increased revenue, increased 
patient volumes and made positive EBITDAR
1
  
for the first time – and this is thanks to two 
trends that have defined healthcare in the 
UK in 2014.
The first trend is for higher patient 
expectations. More patients require 
treatment, and their demands for  
high-quality, compassionate and  
efficient care have steadily risen.
Outcomes across the Group point to 
real success here. Clinical performance 
and patient feedback from our two 
independent hospitals and our NHS 
treatment centre have been excellent,  
maintaining an average patient 
r ecommendation	rate	 of	99%	 y ear -on-
year – compared to the NHS average of 
94%,	and	independent	sector	av erage	 of	
98%	–	 while	 the	most	important	clinical	
outcomes, from infection rates to patient-
reported quality of life improvements, have 
shown consistently strong performance. 
The second trend is constrained finances, 
and the ever-greater efficiency challenge 
faced by providers and commissioners.
This was reflected across the Group in 
different ways. 
At Hinchingbrooke, reduced funding 
combined with unprecedented accident 
and emergency (‘A&E’) demands, meant 
that in early 2015, we took the difficult 
decision to withdraw from the franchise  
to operate the hospital. 
In contrast, our other operations were 
well-placed to offer support to an 
increasingly pressured system. 
Our independent hospitals in Bath and 
Reading have seen increased demand, 
including from NHS commissioners seeking 
to reduce elective waiting times, and both 
saw revenue increasing. At our Nottingham 
NHS Treatment Centre, we saw increasing 
patient volumes, and have sustained good 
margins even as commissioners reduced  
our payment tariffs. 
Chairman’s letter 
2014 saw significant developments in our business  
and the wider healthcare market, and we believe that  
our model of patient-centred and employee-led care  
is more relevant than ever. 
 
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent, excluding exceptional items.
2 The capped-budget model refers to a contract, whereby, the baseline revenue is fixed over the contract term rather than an activity-based payment plan.
Finally, in April, we started the first  
capped-budget
2
 contract for MSK  
services in England. The contract gives  
us responsibility for integrating MSK 
services in Bedfordshire, and it is one 
emerging model to help the NHS meet  
its future challenges of integration,  
savings and better care.  
These models are now crystallising  
around NHS England’s Five Year Forward  
View, and our track record offers significant 
opportunities for the Group. The blueprint 
sets out significant financial challenges for 
the NHS: we have proved our model offers 
financial efficiency. It sets out the need 
for clinical excellence: we have proved we 
can deliver excellent care. Finally, the Five 
Year Forward View sets out radical plans for 
new structures of care organisations, with 
a particular focus on integrating services. 
With our experience of running acute trusts 
and capped budgets, we feel well-placed 
to offer the NHS the innovative solutions it 
needs to meet its most pressing challenges. 
Equally, the increasing availability of 
medical data, the national policy push  
for transparency, and the rise of consumer 
health technology are unlikely to halt 
soon. They all suggest increased consumer 
activism and information-savvy patients. 
We know patients value our clinician-led 
hospitals and focus on hospitality in care, 
and feel confident about thriving in a 
health system with well-informed users.
During the year, our two major shareholder 
Board representatives, Tim Bunting and 
Tony Bromovsky, stood down from the 
Board. Their counsel and experience in  
the immediate years following our initial 
public offering was invaluable, and I thank 
them for their contribution to Circle. 
We were delighted to welcome John 
Hutton and Justin Jewitt to the board. 
Both bring very relevant healthcare and 
health economy experience to our strategy 
and governance. Their contributions have 
already added greatly to the Board’s 
conversations. I would like to thank all my 
Board colleagues for their commitment 
and support as we develop the business 
and navigate the complexities of the UK 
health economy.
We also ended 2014 by realising a long-
held ambition to strengthen our employee 
co-owned ethos. Project Reset simplified 
our structure and governance, with our 
staff	 owning	25%	 of	 Cir cle	Holdings	plc	
shares through the Circle Partnership 
Benefit Trust (the ‘CPBT’). The restructure 
aligns the interests of staff, investors 
and patients, and we are now the largest 
employee co-owned organisation on the 
AIM market.
These changes capped a significant  
year for Circle. I have no doubt that 
the need to meet both rising patient 
expectations and tough efficiency  
goals present significant opportunities  
next year and beyond. I remain equally 
confident that in this environment, our 
patient-centred and co-owned approach  
is a solid foundation for future growth.
Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
18 March 2015
99.7%
2014  
CircleBath  
99.5%
2014  
CircleReading 
98.8%
2014  
CircleNottingham  
84%
Local sector  
average
80%
Local sector  
average
84%
Local sector  
average
Patient recommendation
Results of Friends and Family Test, completed 
by all Circle hospital patients. Competitor 
figures as reported on www.phin.org.uk
Michael  
Kirkwood
Chairman
Our independent hospitals 
in Bath and Reading have 
seen increased demand, 
including from NHS 
commissioners seeking 
to reduce elective waiting 
times, and both saw 
revenue increasing.
‘‘ 8     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     9
 
Patient, CircleNottingham 
I can honestly say that from the time I checked in to 
the hospital, to the time I was discharged, I could  
not possibly have had better care and treatment. ‘‘
