 10     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     11
I went in to CircleBath for a knee 
arthroscopy two years ago. It was brilliant. 
The surgery was completely successful, 
and the hospital couldn’t have been a  
nicer place. 
Then just a few months ago, it turned out 
that I needed another, in my other knee. 
I had the discussion with my GP about 
where to go, and there was no question 
really. I wanted to go back to Circle. 
The hospital staff really made it easy for 
me. My husband has been ill too, so we 
don’t have the freedom we used to – but 
the staff were very considerate and made 
it as convenient as possible to find a time  
that worked for us. 
The pre-op was very thorough, and  
it was good to have such a clear chat  
with the team before going in to surgery. 
Everyone I met was just so nice – from  
the receptionist to the anaesthetist. It 
didn’t really feel like going to a hospital.
After the surgery, I had a problem 
with my blood pressure. That was a bit 
unnerving, but I knew I was in good hands. 
I apologised for being such a pain, but the 
staff were having none of it. They offered 
me a room to stay longer if I wanted to, 
and completely looked after me. 
Would I guess that staff were invested 
in their business? Well yes, that makes 
sense. 
And would I recommend the hospital  
to other people? Of course I would.  
It’s friendly, clean and hospitable.
Patient story
 
Patient, 
CircleBath 
Everyone I met was 
just so nice – from  
the receptionist to the 
anaesthetist. It didn’t 
really feel like going  
to a hospital.
‘‘ CircleBath opened in March 2010,  
and in 2014, it reached a milestone in 
its development. The hospital achieved 
EBITDA break-even in the second half, 
with	 total	patient	 v olumes	up	17 .5%	
year-on-year. Growth in NHS work from 
surrounding NHS organisations was strong, 
including working closely with two local 
trusts in order to reduce their waiting lists 
for elective surgery. The hospital is now  
an integral part of the local health system. 
Private patient volumes remained strong, 
with 	 12% 	 of 	 all 	 patients 	 opting 	 to 	 self-pay .	
In	 total,	r ev enue	 was	up	27%,	and	losses	
reduced from £5.3 million in 2013 to  
£0.8 million this year overall. 
In August, we announced the sale of the 
land and building to Medical Properties 
Trust (‘MPT’), which reduced the rent  
of the site by approximately £1 million  
per annum.
Clinical outcomes remain excellent. 
P atient	satisfaction	is	curr entl y	99.7%,	 
and one particular highlight was being  
placed in the top quintile for hip operations. 
Our average orthopaedic market share 
in the Bath area has grown significantly 
fr om	3 7%	last	 y ear ,	 to	47%	in	2014,	 which	
reflects our growing reputation for quality 
in the area. 
We expect to consolidate this performance 
in 2015, and see more gradual growth as 
the hospital achieves maturity. 
CircleBath
  
Annual Report and financial statements 2014     13 12     Circle Holdings plc
Chief Executive  
Officer’s report
Operating overview 
Circle’s sights have never been set low. 
2014 was an important year for us – and 
although we faced some challenges, 
overall, there was significant progress 
across the Group.
C ompar ed	 to	2013,	r ev enue	 was	up	3 2 % ,	
patient 	 v olumes 	 incr eased 	 8.7%, 	 and 	 losses	
befor e 	 ex ceptional 	 items 	 wer e 	 down 	 25%.	
Three operations have now reached 
positive EBITDA
*
, with CircleReading  
rapidly increasing revenue and making 
good progress in cost-saving initiatives.   
This success is based first, on our ability 
to offer patients excellent care: clinical 
outcomes and patient feedback are 
consistently strong across the Group. 
Second, it is based on our ability to run 
efficient, cost-effective facilities in an 
environment of constrained finances.  
Our decision to withdraw from the 
franchise at Hinchingbrooke showed the 
other side of this trend – where financial 
pressure within the NHS system, combined 
with the particular circumstances of the  
contract and surrounding health economy, 
to result in the difficult decision to withdraw.
Organisations in the growth stage of their  
development expect to face such moments.  
Our fundamental task remains to maintain 
our excellent clinical performance and 
move the underlying operations of the 
business to financial sustainability. Overall, 
the year’s results represent strong progress 
towards that goal – and our ambitions 
remain equally high. 
Steve Melton 
Chief Executive Officer
After a strong 2014, I am 
optimistic for 2015. We aim 
for all current operating 
assets to be EBITDA positive 
by the end of 2015.
‘‘
 
Hospital services
Patient satisfaction
99.7%
Revenue growth
+27%
Average orthopaedic market 
share in the Bath area
2014 47%
2013 37%
CircleBath
© Foster + Partners
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,  
and amortisation. Annual Report and financial statements 2014     15 14     Circle Holdings plc
The Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre 
had a successful full first year in its new 
contract, which seeks to integrate care 
with surrounding providers. The new 
contract rebased prices and removed 
the guaranteed volumes provided in the 
previous contract; however, patient volumes 
increased – indicating substantial success in 
attracting patients with freedom to choose 
their treatment elsewhere. EBITDA was  
in line with expectations, at £2.5 million 
pre-exceptional items. 
At the start of 2014, CircleNottingham 
opened its new inpatient unit, meaning 
that we can now provide patients with a 
wider range of more complex procedures. 
Since its opening, we have seen a steady 
increase in inpatient volumes and positive 
patient reviews. This was followed by some  
innovative approaches to meeting the needs 
of the surrounding community, including 
the opening of an outreach clinic and 
the extension of our orthopaedic and 
ophthalmology services. 
As in Reading, national staffing trends  
have increased our cost base. Recruitment 
and reducing these costs represents an area 
to focus on in 2015.  
Across the treatment centre, clinical 
outcomes remained excellent: patient 
feedback	r emained	abo v e	98%	acr oss	 
the year. 
CircleNottingham
CircleReading had its second full year  
of operation. The hospital has focused on 
learning from the experience of CircleBath, 
in particular by growing relationships with  
nearby NHS trusts and increasing its 
catchment area.
This contributed to revenue growth 
of	44%	 y ear -on-y ear .	 As	noted	in	 our	
half-year statement, revenue growth 
outpaced recruitment of permanent staff 
– compounded by national shortages in 
key clinical roles – resulting in higher than 
expected interim staffing costs. Losses 
reduced from £5.5 million in 2013, to  
£4.6 million in 2014. Total patient volumes 
wer e	up	10%,	 with	a	38%	incr ease	in	 day	
cases and inpatients. Our presence in the 
local orthopaedic market is continuing 
to	expand,	gr owing	b y	8%	 to	an	av erage	
mark et	shar e	 of	28%	in	2014.
Clinical outcomes also remain excellent, 
with	99.7%	 of	patients	r ecommending	
the hospital to friends or family. After 
stabilising solid revenue, the focus for  
2015 is on improving margins. 
CircleReading
 
EBITDA
£2.5m
Patient satisfaction
98.8%
Year-on-year increase of 
orthopaedic operations
2014 24%
2013 10%
Revenue growth
+44%
Patient satisfaction
99.5%
Average orthopaedic market 
share in the Reading area
2014 28%
2013 20%
CircleReading CircleNottingham Chief Executive Officer’ s report
Continued
Annual Report and financial statements 2014     17 16     Circle Holdings plc
The Bedfordshire MSK contract started 
in April 2014. MSK services represent a 
significant proportion of commissioners’ 
budgets, and most projections forecast 
an increase in demand as the population 
ages. However, services are generally unco-
ordinated and inefficient, and most patients 
do not experience a seamless service. 
The Bedfordshire contract aims to  
change the operation of this crucial  
clinical area, by creating a ‘prime provider’ 
which takes responsibility for co-ordinating 
and managing the rest of the system: 
meaning that the patient journey is  
more co-ordinated, outcomes are improved, 
and commissioners save money. 
Achievements in the first nine months 
include	capturing	ar ound	90%	 of	all	local	
MSK patients through our triage hub. This 
means the vast majority of patients now 
experience a dedicated service, seeing  
the right clinician, first time round – which 
is both better for the patient and more 
cost -effectiv e.	 Ar ound	40%	 of	patients	
are coming through the electronic referral 
system, 	 compar ed 	 to 	 about 	 5% 	 pr eviousl y	
– enabling referrals to be processed more 
efficiently, thereby, improving patient 
experience. 	 Furthermor e, 	 9 7% 	 of 	 patients	
using our hub are offered an independent 
patient advisor, offering genuine choice  
to patients over their care. 
Any new system faces challenges, and  
in Bedford, this has included convincing  
all local partners to use our triage hub.  
This has been almost universally successful, 
with just one of 21 providers, Bedford 
Hospital NHS Trust, choosing to circumvent 
the system. We are in discussions with the 
clinical commissioning group (‘CCG’) on 
handling this disruption of patient care, 
and expect to update on this further in  
our half-year results interim statement. 
Bedfordshire MSK
Hinchingbrooke won several awards for its 
quality of care in 2014, including the CHKS 
‘best quality of care in England’ award, and 
the Health Investor award for ‘best public-
private partnership.’ 
Cumulative quality improvement plans  
made	savings	 of	appr o ximatel y	5%	 y ear - 
on-year since the start of the contract. 
Clinical outcomes were excellent across 
2014, including running one of the best-
performing A&Es in the country, meeting  
all major waiting time targets, low and 
declining mortality rates, and patient 
feedback in the top quartile of similar 
hospitals in the NHS. Efficiency was also 
improved. We believe that the Care Quality 
Commission (‘CQC’) inspection report on 
Hinchingbrooke, published in January 2015, 
did not reflect these achievements, and  
is not an accurate representation of the 
hospital. We note that a subsequent  
report by MPs on the Public Accounts 
Committee recommended that the  
CQC review its approach.
In March 2014, Circle made a franchise 
support payment of £1.3 million, following 
a dispute with commissioners over payments  
under the 2013/14 contract. Like most acute  
hospitals, from late summer onwards, 
Hinchingbrooke saw unprecedented A&E 
attendances	–	at	 times	up	 to	30%	higher ,	
year-on-year – and not enough care places 
for healthy patients who await discharge. 
At the same time, funding was cut in the 
2014/15 financial year. 
With these pressures on the system, to 
maintain the standards patients deserve 
required significant further investment, 
on top of the £5 million and considerable 
resources Circle has invested in the 
hospital to date.
Solving the problems facing 
Hinchingbrooke could only be achieved  
through joined-up reform in Cambridgeshire 
across hospitals, GPs and community 
services – but these reforms are too far 
into the future. We reluctantly concluded 
that with little flexibility in the contract, 
Circle’s involvement in Hinchingbrooke 
was unsustainable. We announced our 
intention to withdraw from the franchise 
in January 2015, and the contract formally 
ceases at the end of March. 
Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust
 
After a strong 2014, I am optimistic for 
2015. We aim for all current operating 
assets to be EBITDA positive by the end  
of 2015. There are notable opportunities  
in both our independent and NHS work. 
Hospital services
We have a long-term lease on well-
located land in Birmingham, and we are 
now moving into detailed planning and 
modelling for its future development.  
Birmingham is a more diverse market than 
Bath or Reading. It is a large healthcare 
economy, with over two million people 
living within a 30-minute drive of our site, 
and an ageing infrastructure of private 
health providers in the area. There are a 
number of NHS providers in the region, 
ranging from large teaching hospital  
trusts to small specialist providers, 
representing a wider range of NHS 
organisations with which to partner.  
We will refine the model used in our first 
two hub hospitals. In particular, we expect 
the build to be quicker and more cost-
effective, and combined with a phased 
recruitment and commissioning process, it 
is expected to reach operational maturity 
at a quicker pace than Bath and Reading.
We are seeing significant interest from UK 
and international investors for high-quality 
healthcare facilities, and we will be looking 
to progress with plans for the Birmingham 
hospital this year. 
We have previously noted our intention  
to pursue further new-build hospitals. We 
have assessed the market in Manchester 
and believe that it is saturated. The Group 
has decided that in this environment, 
pursuing a new independent hospital in 
Manchester is not currently viable and  
we are considering options for the land  
we own. 
Bath and Reading both have plans for 
organic growth in specialties where the 
surrounding area is under-served, with 
scope for new clinical units and services. 
Nottingham also expects some organic 
additions to its services. 
We were pleased to be accepted in 
October to be a member of the NHS 
Supply Chain’s new support framework. 
This places us on a centrally-approved 
list of permitted bidders for contingency 
diagnostics and elective work at our 
existing hospitals. 
Other services
We expect further capped-budget 
contracts to come to market across 2015. 
This will include more MSK contracts, but 
is also likely to involve other service lines 
and clinical pathways. As one of the few 
current providers of this type of contract, 
we are well-placed to help the NHS evolve 
the format.
In March 2015, the ‘vanguard’ sites 
adopting new models of care proposed 
in Simon Stevens’ Five Year Forward View 
were announced. We expect greater clarity 
to emerge in the second half of the year on 
how these sites intend to reform services, 
regardless of the outcome of the general 
election in May. 
The election does pose some political  
risk, given no party is an active advocate  
of the role of the independent sector in the 
NHS; however, the role of NHS England 
and local health leaders in leading health  
policy insulates against this risk, and we 
fully intend to engage in the ideas and 
policy of the Five Year Forward View as it  
is clarified over the coming year. 
As one of the few non-NHS organisations 
with experience of both running acute 
trusts and capped-budget services, we feel 
confident about our role as a partner to 
the NHS in this potentially exciting set  
of reforms. 
Finally, we are reviewing options for 
acquisitions and consultancy work, both 
in the UK and abroad. We are continuing 
our close relationship with CITIC, one of 
China’s biggest conglomerates, which we 
announced in December 2013. We will 
update on these plans as required later  
in the year. 
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2015
Other services Operating outlook  18     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     19
Amanda 
Philips 
General Manager  
for Bedfordshire MSK
To me it feels like it’s  
in Circle’s DNA to do  
what it takes if it means  
we serve our patients.
‘‘
 
I am the Lead Extended Scope 
Physiotherapist at the Enhanced 
Services Centre in Bedford. We are a 
musculoskeletal clinic which is run by  
a partnership of Horizon Health Choices 
and Circle. This is part of the MSK tender 
won by Circle to run MSK services for 
Bedfordshire. We see patients referred by 
GPs who may need imaging, injections or 
onward referral to consultants. We have 
a mixture of different clinicians working 
here, including physiotherapists, GPs with 
a particular interest in musculoskeletal 
conditions, and consultants.
I feel that working with Circle gives you  
an excellent support network at all levels. 
We have daily meetings where all aspects 
of the clinics are looked at. Any issues can 
be brought to the meeting, and everyone 
can contribute to finding a resolution.
This way of working gives you a say in  
how things are run. You are able to offer 
any ideas in an open atmosphere, and they 
will be listened to. It makes you feel part  
of a team and that you can really make  
a difference to the patient experience.
And in our service, the needs of the patient 
are paramount. Problem solving is always 
directed to improve the patient experience, 
and feedback from patients is actively 
sought at all stages of the patient process. 
Having a clinician-led company ensures 
that the patient needs are priority, as the 
clinicians have experience of working in 
various fields, and so understand the issues 
that are important to patients. These then  
drive the way services are delivered. We  
try to make the service as convenient as 
possible for the patient, for example, by 
decreasing wait times by having a number  
of providers and offering clinics for 
patients to attend as close to their  
homes as possible.
As an example of just one thing we’ve 
changed thanks to this way of working,  
in the space of just three months, I have 
been able to change the system we used 
for giving out TENS machines – a type  
of pain relief machine – in the pain service. 
Previously, there was an issue with supply 
due to the type of contract, which meant 
that referrals had virtually stopped to 
this service. But I was allowed to change 
supplier and set up a more efficient system 
for providing these machines that both 
patients and staff are happy with. This  
has allowed patients to be referred to  
this service again, and allowed the  
patients access to a non-chemical form 
of pain relief which can be helpful for this 
patient group.
Circle is challenging in a positive way. 
Starting a role that’s new to me, and  
also to the company, was a challenge –  
but with support from Circle colleagues,  
for example, I’ve been able to define my 
role, and learn the skills to do the job. 
You’re constantly learning, and Circle  
has the inclusive and supportive culture  
to make that happen.
Kay’s story 
Kay Hoare is an extended scope physiotherapist, working in our Bedfordshire 
musculoskeletal team.
Patient recommendations
100%
Patients coming through the 
electronic referral system
40%
Bedford MSK
compar ed	 to	5%	befor e	 Cir cle	 
commenced the MSK contract
