 Annual Report and financial statements 2014     23
We began 2014 by working closely with 
Bedfordshire CCG and the local supply 
chain to mobilise our MSK service, which 
started in April. Our contracts with all 
providers require patients to use the 
Circle MSK services. We are currently 
in discussions with the CCG regarding 
payments for those who circumvented  
the Circle triage system. In addition,  
the contract provides for a number  
of one-off payments related to the 
transition of waiting lists at the start  
of the contract. We expect to provide  
a more comprehensive review of our  
MSK business in the half-year interim 
results, after a full year’s performance  
of the service.
The	£4.9	million	incr ease	in	 total	loss	 for	
the year to £20.2 million in 2014 is due 
to the inclusion of one-off items, most 
of which are non-cash items. Exceptional 
charges of £5.3 million were expensed 
in 2014. In 2013, an exceptional gain of 
£3.9 	 million 	 was 	 r ecognised, 	 lar gel y 	 due 	 to	
the deconsolidation of Health Properties 
Edinburgh. To enable a more like-for-like 
basis of comparison, the underlying total 
loss for the year of £14.8 million highlights 
an improved trading performance in 
comparison to the underlying loss of  
£19. 1 	 million 	 in 	 2013. 	 Ex ceptional 	 costs	 
are reviewed in more detail below.
Exceptional Items
In 2014, the Group recorded exceptional 
charges of £5.3 million (2013: exceptional 
gain	 of	£3.9	million).	
Following the completion of Project Reset, 
which further enhanced our partnership 
incentive scheme and entailed a significant 
restructure of the Group to simplify our 
corporate structure; a non-cash IFRS 2 
charge of £1.7 million was recognised in 
relation to the shares and associated share 
options issued. Further ongoing share-based 
charges are expected going forwards in 
relation to share options being granted  
to Circle clinicians and employees.    
The Group made a non-cash gain of  
£4.8 million upon wind-up of the joint 
venture activities in Health Properties 
(Bath) Limited (‘HP Bath’).
An impairment of £0.1 million was 
recorded against Birmingham assets  
under construction, following updated 
plans for CircleBirmingham, along with  
a £2.8 million impairment of assets under 
construction at the Manchester site, as 
reported in the first half of 2014. 
The Group has made cumulative payments 
of £4.8 million towards working capital to  
Hinchingbrooke to date, and has provided 
for a further £0.2 million, culminating in a 
£5 million receivable at year-end. The full 
amount has been provided against, given the 
current status of the contract. Please refer 
to the Directors’ report for further details.
Other exceptional costs of £0.7 million 
incurred related to advisory fees to assist 
the Group’s consideration of potential 
acquisitions. The Group incurred fees 
during the year in relation to due diligence 
costs for a material potential acquisition. 
This acquisition was unsuccessful and 
the costs have been included within 
exceptional costs.  
Corporate streamlining
The ongoing exercise to rationalise the 
number of Group entities resulted in the 
wind-up of a further eight entities, reducing 
the costs of administration. A further 11 
entities are planned to be dissolved in 2015.
Financing
In January 2014, the Group successfully 
raised £27.5 million (before fees) by way 
of equity funding. The Group will use 
the proceeds for: growth and expansion 
into large markets, with planning set to 
commence on Circle’s next new-build 
independent hospital in Birmingham; 
pursuing growth opportunities for current 
operating assets, for example, expansion of 
current service offerings; and set-up costs, 
commissioning and working capital for a 
mix of up to three generic service lines. 
On 1 July, MPT, the US specialist hospital 
real estate investment trust, completed 
the purchase of the Bath freehold for  
£28.3 million. The asset was previously 
owned by HP Bath, a joint venture of which 
the 	 Gr oup 	 contr olled 	 38.7%. 	 This 	 sale 	 full y	
extinguished the loans held by HP Bath 
with Santander and Lehman Brothers  
(in administration), as well as an interest 
rate swap held in conjunction with the 
Santander loan. CircleBath has signed a 
15-year lease agreement with MPT, with 
a further 15-year extension, which will 
see its annual rent reduce by £1 million 
to £2.5 million. As part of the repayment 
of the mezzanine debt, Circle Holdings 
plc paid Lehman Brothers £0.6 million 
under a capped guarantee, which has been 
recognised in exceptional finance costs.
In July 2014, an amount of £2 million 
was released from escrow in Circle 
Hinchingbrooke Limited, in accordance 
with the terms of the Hinchingbrooke 
Franchise Agreement.
Two cash-backed performance bonds 
totalling £1.8 million, held in favour of  
GE Capital as guarantee for leased clinical 
equipment, expired on 31 October 2014, 
and the amount was returned to Circle 
Holdings plc. As a result, the Group has  
no restricted cash reserves. 
Cash flow
Net cash outflow from operating  
activities amounted to £8.4 million (2013: 
22. 1 million), showing an improvement on 
prior year. Some of this improvement can 
be attributed to the timing of Bedford  
MSK payments.
At 31 December 2014, the only borrowings 
remaining relate to finance leases of 
clinical equipment.
Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
18 March 2015
22     Circle Holdings plc
Chief Financial Officer’ s report
Continued
   
24     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     25
1 Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
2 Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
3 Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
4 Dr Massoud Fouladi
Chief Medical Officer
5 Lorraine Baldry OBE
Senior Non-Executive Director
6 Lord Hutton of Furness
Non-Executive Director 
7 Justin Jewitt
Non-Executive Director 
8 Andrew Shilston
Non-Executive Director 
24     Circle Holdings plc
Board of Directors 
1 Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman (a), (b), (c)
*
Michael Kirkwood is an Economics and 
Industrial Engineering graduate of Stanford 
University and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers. He joined the Board 
of Circle Holdings plc as Chairman in June 
2011. He is additionally Senior Advisor 
(formerly Chairman) of Ondra Partners LLP, 
a non-executive director of AngloGold 
Ashanti Limited, and an Emeritus Director 
(formerly Chairman) of British American 
Business Inc.
Michael	joined	 Citigr oup	in	19 77	 fr om	
where he retired at the end of 2008.  
Prior to Citigroup, he spent a number of 
years in Asia with Bowater-Ralli Group, 
having started his career at HSBC. He  
was previously a non-executive director  
of UK Financial Investments Ltd (UKFI),  
Eros International plc, Kidde plc and Deputy  
Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers  
LLP’s Advisory Board. He is a member  
of the Advisory Board of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers and a patron 
of poverty housing charity, Habitat for 
Humanity. During his City career, he served 
as Deputy Chairman of the British Bankers 
Association, President of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers, Chairman of the 
Association of Foreign Banks, and as a 
member of the CBI’s Financial Services 
Council.
A Freeman and former HM Lieutenant for 
the City of London in 2004, Michael was 
appointed a Companion of the Order of  
St Michael and St George (CMG) in HM 
The Queen’s 2003 Birthday Honours.   
2 Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
Steve Melton was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer in December 2012, after 
previously holding the roles of Head of 
Mobilisation and Chief Operating Officer 
since joining Circle in 2008. Steve has 30 
years of experience leading large-scale 
operations in the retail, consumer goods 
manufacturing and healthcare sectors. 
Prior to Circle, he was the Supply Chain 
Director at Argos, where he also led a 
number of group-wide improvement 
programmes. 
Previously, he was Supply Chain Director 
at Scottish Courage, and General Manager, 
Non-Food Supply Chain at Asda. He began 
his career on Unilever’s Management 
Trainee Programme, and subsequently 
held a number of roles at Unilever, working 
internationally across the personal products 
business. Steve holds an MA (First Class) in 
Chemical Engineering from the University 
of Cambridge. 
3 Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
Paolo Pieri joined Circle after spending 
over five years at lastminute.com. He 
spent the majority of this time as the  
UK Finance Director and, subsequently, 
took on a number of operational roles, 
including the Managing Director of  
some European divisions.
Prior to this, Paolo spent seven years in  
the Virgin organisation, principally within 
the retail and cinema operations, where  
he spent three years as Finance Director  
of the Virgin Megastore business.
Paolo has a Bachelor of Accountancy  
from Glasgow University, and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
for Scotland.
4 Dr Massoud Fouladi
Chief Medical Officer
Dr Massoud Fouladi is a co-founder of 
Circle and Group Medical Director. He also 
serves as the initial director representative 
of the CPBT, the Group’s largest single 
shareholder.  
Massoud graduated from Bristol  
Medical 	 School 	 in 	 1990 	 and 	 completed 	 his	
ophthalmology training at Birmingham 
and	Midland	Ey e	 C entr e	in	1999.	He	 was	
also awarded a Masters in Health Services 
Management by Birmingham Health 
Services	Management	 C entr e	in	1998.
In 2001, Massoud founded the Ophthalmic 
Clinical Leads Forum at the King’s Fund. 
He was Chairman of the Association 
of Ophthalmologists UK from 2003 to 
2007. He remains an active consultant 
specialising in ophthalmic surgery.
5 Lorraine Baldry OBE
Senior Non-Executive Director  
(a), (b)
*
, (c)
Lorraine Baldry is Chairman of London  
and Continental Railways Limited, 
Schroders Real Estate Investment Trust, 
Inventa Partners Limited and Tri-Air 
Developments Limited. She is also a Board 
member of Thames Water Utilities Ltd. 
She was previously Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings 
plc, and Chairman of the London Thames 
Gateway Development Corporation.
Prior to that, Lorraine was Chief Executive 
of Chesterton International plc, a senior 
advisor at Morgan Stanley, investment 
banking division, and Managing Director 
and a member of the Executive Committee 
of Regus. Lorraine joined Regus from 
Prudential Corporation where she held 
a number of posts, including Managing 
Director of Prudential Corporate Pensions, 
Chief Operating Officer of Prudential 
Portfolio Managers (now M&G), and 
Managing Director of its property 
investment division.
She was awarded OBE in the Queen’s 
Jubilee Honours, and is an Honorary 
Member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors and a past president  
of the British Property Federation.
5
7
3
1
6
8
4
2  
26     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     27 26     Circle Holdings plc
6 Lord Hutton of Furness
Non-Executive Director (b), (c) 
Lord Hutton served as a member of the 
British	House	 of	 C ommons	 fr om	1992	 to	
2010. During his time in government, he 
held several prominent Cabinet positions, 
including Secretary of State for defence; 
business, enterprise and regulatory reform; 
and work and pensions. Lord Hutton was 
also a minister in the UK Department 
of	Health	 fr om	1998	 to	2005,	 wher e	he	
helped lead the modernisation of the 
National Health Service. Prior to public 
service, Lord Hutton worked as a senior 
law lecturer at Northumbria University, 
and served as a legal adviser to the 
Confederation of British Industry.  
Between 2010 and 2014, Lord Hutton  
was the Chairman of the Independent 
Public Service Pensions Commission.
He is currently Chairman of the Nuclear 
Industry Association, a non-executive 
director of Sirius Minerals plc and Arthurian 
Life Sciences Ltd. Lord Hutton also holds 
advisory positions at Bechtel Corporation, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Lockheed 
Martin. Lord Hutton graduated from 
Magdalen College, Oxford University,  
in	19 7 8	 with	an	MA	and	a	Bachelor	in	 
Civil Law.
7 Justin Jewitt
Non-Executive Director (a)
Justin Jewitt has extensive commercial 
knowledge and practical experience in 
the delivery and creation of public and 
private health services. He graduated from 
Leicester	 Univ ersity	in	19 75,	joining	Mobil	
Oil Company Limited as a graduate trainee, 
where he occupied various roles for 12 
y ears. 	 In 	 1986, 	 he 	 joined 	 Thorn 	 Emi 	 plc 	 in	
their retail/rental division, moving through 
various senior management roles. 
In	1992,	 Justin	became	Managing	Dir ector	
of two B.E.T plc companies, Laundrycraft 
and Initial Healthcare (Textile) Ltd. Justin 
joined Nestor Healthcare Group plc in 
1994,	 wher e	he	 work ed	 for	10	 y ears	as	
Chief Executive Officer of the Group, 
building it into a FTSE 250 listed company. 
Justin also held several non-executive 
director positions in both private and 
public healthcare companies. Justin is 
currently a visiting professor for the  
Welsh Institute for Health and Social  
Care, University of South Wales, a member 
on the Quality Committee of an NHS CCG, 
and a senior independent director of NHS 
Shared Business Services Ltd.   
8 Andrew Shilston
Non-Executive Director (a)
*
, (b), (c)
Andrew Shilston graduated from the 
Univ ersity	 of	 Oxfor d	in	19 77	 with	an	MA	
in Engineering Sciences, and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of England and Wales and a Fellow of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Andrew joined Rolls-Royce Group plc in 
2002 and was appointed Group Finance 
Director in 2003, where he remained 
until 2011. He was Finance Director at 
Enterprise	 Oil	Ltd	 fr om	1993	 to	2002.		
Andrew was an independent non-executive 
director of Cairn Energy plc between 2004 
and 2008, and is currently Chairman 
of Morgan Advanced Materials plc and 
Independent Non-Executive and Senior 
Independent Director of BP plc.
The Group financial statements 
consolidate the financial statements of 
Circle Holdings plc (the ‘Company’) and 
its subsidiary undertakings (‘subsidiaries’) 
drawn up to 31 December 2014. Together, 
these make up ‘Circle’ or the ‘Group’.
Principal activities
The Group is a provider of healthcare 
services in the UK, treating privately insured, 
self-pay and NHS-funded patients. The 
Group’s business strategy is founded on  
the fundamental belief that the best way  
to deliver great patient care is to empower 
the doctors, nurses and everyone who 
works in the hospitals, treatment centres  
and clinics, to put patients’ needs first.  
Business review
The information that fulfils the requirements 
of the business review can be found in 
the Operating review on pages 12 to 16. 
Information on environmental matters, 
employees, community and social issues 
is given in the Report on corporate 
governance on pages 30 to 34.
Results and dividends
The loss and total loss for the financial  
year attributable to owners of the  
parent amounted to £8,055,000  
(2013: £6,678,000). The directors  
do not recommend the payment  
of any dividends (2013: £nil).
Cash flow
The total cash balance at 31 December 
2014	is	£2 4,496,000	(2012:	£12,39 7 ,000)	
of	 which	£2 4,496,000	(2013:	£8,59 7 ,000)	
relates to unrestricted cash. Net cash used 
in operating activities totalled £8,361,000 
(2013: £22,062,000).
Share capital and control
As at 31 December 2014, the Company’s 
authorised share capital comprised 
325,000,000 (2013: 250,000,000) 
ordinary shares of £0.02 each, 12,500,000 
convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 
each, and 15,500,000 convertible shares 
(36 months) of £0.02 each, of which 
2 47 ,79 7 , 188	(2013:	130,7 85, 122)	(note	22)	
were in issue. Shareholders are entitled to 
receive the Company’s Annual Report and 
financial statements, to attend and speak 
at general meetings, to appoint proxies and 
exercise voting rights. The Company’s shares 
do not carry any special rights with regard  
to control of the Company. 
The appointment and replacement of 
directors is governed by the Company’s 
Articles of Association. Any changes to the 
Articles of Association must be approved 
by the shareholders in accordance with 
the legislation in force at the time. The 
directors have authority to issue and allot 
ordinary shares pursuant to Article 7 of  
the Company’s Articles of Association.
Policy and practice on  
payment of creditors
It is the Group’s and Company’s policy 
to abide by the payment terms agreed 
with suppliers wherever it is satisfied 
that the supplier has provided goods and 
services in accordance with agreed terms 
and conditions. A number of significant 
purchases and commitments under 
operating leases are paid by direct debit. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group had 
30 equivalent days (2013: 32 days) of 
purchases outstanding, and the Company 
had 46 equivalent days (2013: 68 days).
At 31 December 2014, trade creditors in 
the Group and Company were £6,666,000 
and £133,000, respectively (2013: 
£5,2 40,000	and	£190,000).
Going concern
The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared on a going concern 
basis, which assumes that the Group will 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. The directors have 
prepared cash flow forecasts for a period  
of not less than 12 months from the date 
of signing the financial statements for  
the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The Board believes that, following the 
completion of the fundraising in January 
2014, the Group has sufficient funding  
to carry out its current business plans. 
Based on this, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the company 
has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the annual financial statements.
Events after the balance  
sheet date 
On 1 February 2012, the Group commenced 
the operation to run Hinchingbrooke. Under 
the terms of the contract (the ‘Franchise 
Agreement’), the Group agreed to make 
working capital contributions of up to  
£5 million, and to share surpluses generated 
over the term of the contract with the Trust. 
The Franchise Agreement allows either 
party to terminate if Hinchingbrooke  
incurs more than £5 million in aggregate 
deficits during the contract term. 
In January 2015, Circle announced its 
intention to terminate the Franchise 
Agreement. Based on discussions with 
the Trust Development Authority (‘TDA’), 
Circle expects the contract to be formally 
terminated on or before 31 March 2015, 
after which Circle will have no further 
financial obligations under the contract. 
Circle is obliged to pay all costs incurred 
by the Trust arising as a result of the 
termination, including, but not limited 
to, retendering costs, up to £2 million. 
As the franchise is not being retendered 
and because the transition period is 
significantly less than that assumed in  
the original franchise, the Trust, the TDA, 
and Circle have agreed £130,000 in 
termination costs.  
Board of Directors
Continued
(a) Member of Audit and Risk Committee.
(b) Member of Remuneration Committee.
(c) Member of Nomination Committee.
* Denotes Chair of respective committee.
Directors’ report
The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the Group 
for the year ended 31 December 2014.  
28     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     29
During the year, the Group has provided 
for a further £164,000 working capital 
contribution to the Trust, which has 
resulted in an aggregate £5 million 
receivable at the year-end. In light of the 
Group’s announcement of its intention 
to terminate the contract, the aggregate 
working capital contributions of £5 million 
are not recoverable and have been fully 
impaired.
Directors
The directors who served during the year 
and up to the date of signing the financial 
statements were as per the table.
Biographies of the current directors are 
detailed on pages 24 to 26, and directors’ 
beneficial interests in the Group’s share 
capital and warrants are detailed on pages 
36	 to	39	 of	 the	Directors’ remuneration 
report.
Directors’ indemnity
In its Articles of Association, the Company 
has granted an indemnity to every present  
and former officer in respect of proceedings 
brought by third parties. The Company has 
procured liability insurance for all directors 
and officers of the Company, and all Group 
companies. There are no outstanding 
claims or provisions as at the balance  
sheet date. 
Donations
The Group made charitable donations 
totalling £1,142 (2013: £1,000) during 
the year to a number of charitable 
organisations within the UK. 
No donation was made to any political 
party registered in the UK under the  
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums 
Act 2000 by either the Company or its 
subsidiaries.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Enterprise risk identification  
and management
The Group has an effective system of risk 
management in terms of identifying risks 
and monitoring actions to manage these 
risks. Further details of the Group’s risk 
management process can be found in the 
Report on corporate governance on pages 
30 to 34.
Risk is an unavoidable element of doing 
business. The Group’s risk management 
system aims to provide assurance to the 
Board regarding the effectiveness of the 
Group’s ability to manage risk. The system 
includes the controlled prioritisation of 
issues, review of key operational metrics 
in relation to clinical outcomes, patient 
experience, staff engagement and value-  
for-money (together known as the ‘Quality 
Quartet (QQ)’ review), mitigation, sharing  
of best practice and effective crisis 
management.
The following provides an overview of the 
principal business risk factors facing the 
Group, along with a description, where 
relevant, of the mitigating actions in place.
Financial risks
The Group’s operations expose it to a  
variety of financial risks that include working 
capital and funding risk, contract risk and 
price risk. The Group has implemented 
a comprehensive strategic planning and 
budgeting system to monitor and limit 
the adverse effects of the below risks, 
the results of which are presented to and 
approved by the Board. Management and 
the Board monitor performance against 
budget and key financial benchmarks 
through monthly reporting routines, 
detailed business reviews and variance 
analysis.
Working capital and funding risk
Working capital and funding risk is the 
risk that the Group will encounter in the 
event of difficulty in meeting obligations 
associated with financial liabilities or be 
unable to obtain sufficient funding to 
pursue its growth plans and expansion 
opportunities. The Group aims to mitigate 
this risk by robustly managing cash 
generation across its operations through 
detailed budgeting and tight cost control, 
as well as applying cash collection targets 
throughout the Group. Where the need 
arises, significant cost savings are made  
in the short term by reducing Head Office  
costs. The Group is also backed by leading 
UK institutional investors that have provided 
finance through several financing rounds 
over the last nine years.
Contract risk
Contract risk exists where the Group is 
unable to renew the NHS contracts at the 
end of their fixed tenure. The Group aims 
to mitigate this risk by maintaining good 
relationships with contracting parties and 
actively pursuing contract renewals and 
extensions ahead of time. During 2013, 
the Group won the retender to provide 
renewed services at the Nottingham  
NHS Treatment Centre for a further five 
years until July 2018. The Group also  
commenced the operation of a five-year 
integrated MSK service contract in 
Bedfordshire.
Owing to the complexity of delivering 
NHS-funded services, there is inherent 
contractual risk arising from the Group’s 
existing NHS contracts. Default and 
termination of these contracts could  
occur as a result of clinical or operational 
failures. The Group continues to mitigate 
these risks by focusing on its business 
model of delivering high-quality care  
at the best value.
Clinical quality risk
As with all medical providers, clinical 
quality risk is a major consideration. 
The Group has an integrated corporate 
governance structure which is chaired by 
the Chief Medical Officer, who also sits on 
the Board. This structure includes senior 
staff across the operational, clinical and 
central support teams. Each hospital site 
has its own local governance structure, 
while a team of clinical care quality 
specialists is dedicated to developing 
up-to-date and consistent clinical and 
operational policies across all sites.  
Local governance committees work  
to a rigorous assurance framework, 
manage day-to-day clinical risks through  
a risk register, provide appropriate training  
to staff and consultants, and report their  
findings to the Group’s Integrated 
Governance Committee (IGC). This 
committee, in turn, provides written  
risk assurance reports to the Boards  
of the relevant Circle Group companies  
and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Price risk
The Group generally seeks to price 
contracts at levels that take account of 
increasing prices and, where appropriate, 
establish contract terms that enable 
revenues to be adjusted as a result of 
any future increasing price levels. As 
the volume of patients is anticipated to 
increase, the Group will be increasingly 
subject to pricing changes from private 
insurance companies and the NHS  
pricing tariff.
The new Bedford MSK contract  
operates under a capped revenue budget. 
The underlying principle assumes that 
the service can be run more efficiently, 
improving the patient experience and 
reducing operational costs. Nevertheless, 
the Group bears the risk of rising operational 
prices as the baseline revenue is fixed, 
subject to local demographic or service 
portfolio changes.
Government policy and 
regulatory risk
There are risks that political or policy 
changes may mean that the number and 
size of contracts awarded to the Group 
are diminished, and that fewer services 
provided by the Group are contracted 
by the public sector. This is particularly 
relevant given the general election in  
May 2015. 
New regulations may be introduced, 
which could have an adverse effect on the 
Group’s operational and compliance costs. 
In addition, the Group relies on the ability 
and willingness of government-funded 
bodies such as CCGs and NHS trusts to 
pay for the Group’s services.
Reputational risk
Reputational risk associated with poor 
clinical outcomes or patient satisfaction  
is mitigated by the focus on providing 
high-quality medical care at the Group’s 
facilities, and constantly seeking to improve 
clinical services through the activities of 
the IGC and the QQ reviews.
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2015
Directors’ report
Continued
Steve Melton Chief Executive Officer
Massoud Fouladi Chief Medical Officer
Paolo Pieri Chief Financial Officer
Michael Kirkwood CMG Non-Executive Chairman (independent)
Lorraine Baldry OBE Senior Non-Executive Director (independent)
Andrew Shilston Non-Executive Director (independent)
Lord Hutton of Furness Non-Executive Director (independent) (appointed 21 May 2014)
Justin Jewitt Non-Executive Director (independent) (appointed 21 May 2014)
Tim Bunting Non-Executive Director (non-independent)  
 (resigned 21 May 2014)
Tony Bromovsky Non-Executive Director (non-independent)  
 (resigned 21 May 2014) 30     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     31
General
The Company, being quoted on AIM, is not 
required to comply with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’). Nevertheless, the directors are 
committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance, and have voluntarily 
complied with elements of the Code issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council, where 
relevant and appropriate to the Company. 
As envisaged by the Code, the Board has 
established three committees: an Audit 
and Risk Committee, a Remuneration 
Committee and a Nomination Committee. 
In addition, the Board has authorised a 
Market Disclosure Committee and the 
IGC, with the latter reporting on clinical, 
operational and financial matters into 
the Audit and Risk Committee. These 
committees operate within defined terms 
of reference, as determined by the Board, 
details of which are publicly available at 
the Group’s registered office. The functions 
and responsibilities of each committee are 
described below, and the members of each 
committee are listed in the biographies of 
the Board of Directors on pages 24 to 26.
The Board
The Board of Directors comprises a  
non-executive chairman, four independent 
non-executive directors, and three executive 
directors (Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Medical Officer and Chief Financial Officer). 
The profiles of the current executive directors 
and non-executive directors are set out on 
pages 24 to 26. The Articles of Association 
allow no fewer than three directors.
The Code recommends that the Board 
should comprise at least two non-
executive directors, determined by the 
Board to be independent in character and 
judgement, and free from relationships or 
circumstances which may affect, or could 
appear to affect, the directors’ judgement. 
The Board considers that the Company 
complies with the requirements of the 
Code in this regard.
The non-executive directors contribute a 
wide range of skills and experience, forming 
a strong and independent element within 
the Board. The non-executive directors 
receive a fixed fee for services rendered, 
are appointed for an initial period of 
three years, which may be extended by 
agreement with the Board, are subject to 
re-election by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’), and are not 
employees of the Company at the time. 
Their opinions carry significant weight 
in the decision-making processes, both 
operational and financial, and they are free 
from any business or personal relationships 
that could interfere with their independent 
judgement. The non-executive directors 
ensure that some meetings are set aside 
during the year without the executive 
directors present. Lorraine Baldry OBE,  
is the nominated senior independent non-
executive director to whom shareholders, 
directors and employees may bring 
concerns which normal channels have 
failed to resolve or are otherwise not 
appropriate.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership 
of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness 
in all aspects of the role, including:
•	 managing	 the	Boar d;
•	 ensuring 	 that 	 sufficient 	 time 	 is 	 allowed	
for the discussion of complex or 
contentious issues; 
•	 ensuring	a	r egular	evaluation	 of	 the	
performance of the Board as a whole, its 
committees and individual directors; and 
•	 taking	 the	lead	in	identifying	and	
meeting the development needs of 
individual directors and the Board  
as a whole.
 
Report on corporate 
governance
Andy  
Addison  
Operations Manager  
at CircleNottingham
Coming from another 
organisation outside of 
healthcare, I have been 
absolutely blown away  
by the team ethic across  
the treatment centre in  
all gateways… 
‘‘  
32     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     33
The Board and its subcommittees meet 
at regular intervals throughout the year, 
and have reserved for their consideration 
matters, including:
•	 the	r esponsibility	 for	 the	 o v erall	strategy	
of the Group;
•	 significant	capital	expenditur e	pr ojects,	
budget approval and any major financial 
proposals;
•	 ensuring	effectiv e	systems	 of	internal	
control and risk management;
•	 r egulatory	compliance;
•	 appr o val 	 of 	 public 	 announcements 	 and	
communications with shareholders;
•	 appr o val	 of	 the	Annual Report and 
financial statements; and
•	 r emuneration	 of	k ey	senior	emplo y ees.
Detailed monthly operational, clinical 
and financial information is provided to 
the Board in a timely manner to enable 
it to discharge its duties. This includes 
information on the historic, budgeted 
and forecast financial performance of 
the business, as well as key performance 
indicators covering volumes, revenue and 
EBITDA, to allow the Board to challenge 
Group management effectively. A budget 
is agreed by the Board annually, and 
performance against budget is reported 
monthly.
The Board ensures that all directors  
receive appropriate training and induction, 
as required, and that they are able to take 
independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties. The Board may 
appoint a director and revoke or terminate 
the appointment of a director as it thinks 
fit. Any director so appointed shall offer 
himself or herself for reappointment at 
the first AGM following appointment, and 
at each AGM thereafter. The shareholders 
may also remove a director by ordinary 
resolution.
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee’s role is to 
assist the Board with the discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to internal and 
external audits and controls, including 
reviewing the Group’s Annual Report and 
financial statements, considering the scope 
of the annual audit and the extent of the 
non-audit work undertaken by external 
auditors, advising on the appointment 
of external auditors, reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal control 
systems in place within the Group, and 
determining and reviewing the nature  
and extent of the risks facing the Group. 
The Audit and Risk Committee meets  
not less than four times a year.
The Code recommends that all members  
of the Audit and Risk Committee be  
non-executive directors and that the 
committee is not chaired by the Chairman  
of the Board. The Company complies  
with the requirements of the Code in  
this regard.
Reporting into the Audit and Risk 
Committee is the IGC, which is chaired 
by the Chief Medical Officer, Dr Massoud 
Fouladi, who also sits on the Board. Further 
details are provided in the principal risks 
and uncertainties section of the Directors’ 
report on page 27.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
recommends policies the Group  
should adopt on executive remuneration, 
determines the levels of remuneration  
for each of the executive directors, and  
is also invited to attend meetings of  
the Remuneration Committee of Circle 
Health Limited (‘CircleHealth’). The 
Remuneration Committee generates 
an annual remuneration report to be 
approved by the members of the  
Company at the AGM. The minutes  
of the Remuneration Committee are 
circulated to, and reviewed by, the  
Board. The Remuneration Committee 
meets not less than twice a year and  
the Directors’ remuneration report is  
set	 out	 on	pages	36	 to	39.
The Code recommends that all members 
of the Remuneration Committee be 
non-executive directors, and the Company 
complies with the requirements of the 
Code in this regard.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the 
Board in determining its composition, 
desired balance of skills and potential  
Board candidates as the need may arise,  
and formulates the succession plans for the 
Chairman. It recommends to the Board the 
succession plans for the Chief Executive 
Officer. The Nomination Committee meets  
at least once a year, and whenever necessary, 
to fulfil its responsibilities. 
The Code recommends that a majority  
of the Nomination Committee be non- 
executive directors, and the Group complies 
with the requirements of the Code in  
this regard.
During the year, the Nomination 
Committee led the recruitment of two 
new non-executive directors (Justin Jewitt 
and Lord Hutton). The committee drew 
up a shortlist of candidates and, following 
a series of interviews, recommended the 
appointment of suitable directors to  
the Board.
Market Disclosure Committee
The Market Disclosure Committee assists  
the Group in meeting its obligations to  
announce price sensitive and other 
significant information, and decide quickly 
whether an announcement obligation has 
arisen under the AIM Rules for Companies 
and related legislation. 
The Code does not require companies to 
have a Market Disclosure Committee, but 
the directors consider it best  
practice to have such a committee.
Performance evaluation  
and attendance
The Board has undertaken a formal 
evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees through 
the circulation and completion of a 
comprehensive questionnaire. Having 
considered the results of the questionnaire, 
the directors have concluded that the 
Board and its committees continue to 
function effectively, and that the other 
commitments of the Chairman and 
directors are such that all directors  
are capable of devoting sufficient  
time to the Company.
Attendance by the directors at the  
various committees during the year  
was as follows:
Report on corporate governance
Continued
1 Tony Bromovsky resigned from the Board on 21 May 2014.
2 Tim Bunting resigned from the Board on 21 May 2014.
3 Lord Hutton of Furness was appointed on 21 May 2014.
4 Justin Jewitt was appointed on 21 May 2014.
     Market  
    Disclosure Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination 
   Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Lorraine Baldry   8 n/a 4 3 2
Tony Bromovsky
1
   3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Tim Bunting
2
   2 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Massoud Fouladi   6 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Lord Hutton
3
   5 n/a n/a 2 n/a
Justin Jewitt
4
   5 n/a 3 n/a n/a
Michael Kirkwood   8 2 1 3 2
Steve Melton   8 1 n/a n/a n/a
Paolo Pieri   8 2 n/a n/a n/a
Andrew Shilston   8 n/a 4 3 2
Total meetings held   8 2 4 3 2 34     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     35
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a regular  
dialogue with fund managers, other 
investors and analysts, usually following  
the announcement of interim and final 
results, to ensure that the investing 
community receives a balanced  
and consistent view of the Group’s 
performance. The principal documents 
received by shareholders are the Interim 
Report, Annual Report and financial 
statements, and any circulars as 
appropriate. The Company’s AGM  
provides an opportunity to respond  
to shareholders’ questions.
Employee involvement
Circle is a socially responsible employer, 
and various initiatives are in place to 
ensure that staff are treated fairly, as they 
are critical to its clinical, commercial and 
operational success. Communication is 
critical to employee relations, and the 
Group uses bi-weekly business updates 
with all sites present via teleconference to 
ensure employees are fully informed about 
plans and progress. Communications from 
the Human Resources Department notify 
all staff of any changes to personnel during 
the year. Semi-annual off-site meetings 
are held for management and directors 
to review strategy implementation and 
key business opportunities. Semi-annual 
performance reviews are conducted 
for employees, and individual training 
and development needs are identified 
to ensure staff receive supplementary 
training.
Following Project Reset, the Group is 
25%	 owned	b y	 the	newl y	 formed	 CPB T .	
Employees and clinicians who work in the 
Group’s facilities can own shares in Circle 
Holdings via the CPBT, and will be allocated 
share options according to performance. 
These organisational changes strengthen 
our identity and ethos as a co-owned 
company.
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled 
persons where the candidate’s particular 
aptitudes and abilities are consistent with 
adequately meeting the requirements of 
the job. Opportunities are available to 
disabled employees for training, career 
development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled,  
it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing 
employment wherever practicable in the 
same or an alternative position, and to 
provide appropriate training to achieve  
this aim.
Equality 
Circle seeks to be a socially responsible 
Group which has a positive impact on 
the communities it operates in. We look 
to employ a workforce which reflects the 
diversity of the Group’s communities. 
No discrimination is tolerated, and we 
endeavour to give all employees the 
opportunity to develop their capabilities.
Environmental matters
The services provided by the Group have 
minimal environmental impact. However, 
the Board believes that good environmental 
practices support the Group’s strategy by  
enhancing the reputation of the Group and  
improving the efficiency of running hospitals. 
Consequently, the Group continues to put 
environmental responsibilities high on  
the agenda.
The Group and its employees try to ensure  
that both services and products are procured 
in an environmentally friendly manner, 
and that waste materials are disposed of 
appropriately, including recycling where 
economically possible. The Group makes  
extensive use of electronic communications 
to reduce the amount of printing waste 
produced. Where appropriate, electronic 
communication methods such as email, 
telephone and video conference facilities 
are used to avoid non-essential travel. 
The Group does not offer a Company car 
scheme to employees, and encourages its 
employees to travel to work using public 
transport or a ‘bike-to-work’ scheme.
Ethical conduct
The Board is committed to uphold ethical 
conduct throughout the Group, and has  
in place confidential whistle-blowing 
and anti-bribery policies that enable 
unresolved concerns to be escalated  
to the Board’s senior independent  
non-executive director. These policies  
are made available to all employees via  
a web-based policy management system 
that enables periodic monitoring.
Health and safety
The Group is committed to protecting 
and enhancing the health and safety 
of its employees and all patients who 
are treated in the facilities it operates. 
The Group operates a formal health and 
safety risk assurance framework, which is 
regularly monitored by a dedicated health 
and safety officer who provides monthly 
reports to the management teams at the 
operational level, and quarterly reports 
to the Group’s IGC. Under the framework, 
significant incidents are reported without 
delay to the Board.
Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
18 March 2015
Report on corporate governance
Continued
Michael 
Kirkwood 
Chairman
Our governance structures 
ensure robust oversight of 
the Group, with appropriate 
challenge to the management 
team and proper scrutiny of  
all our risks, remuneration  
and performance.
‘‘
 
