 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
2
Complex/Specialist Care
THE COMPLETE GROUP
The strategy for Complete for the coming year is twofold: to build on existing relationships and increase the level of 
business with those PCTs and Social Service departments to which Complete currently provides services; and to build 
and develop new relationships with those PCTs and Social Service departments to which Complete has not previously 
provided services. The key strategy for Paediatric Nursing Link (PNL) is to increase the level of business that it provides
through the LAP III contract. In order to do this PNL needs to increase the number of agency nursing staff that it has on 
its books. PNL is also looking to expand its service provision outside the London area.
Training
PRIMARY CARE TRAINING GROUP
The strategy is to grow both the scope and scale of the business. It will develop in scope to provide comprehensive 
learning and development solutions for the care sector, with products which provide a transparent career map from 
carers to senior management, through the development of the website and launch of an e-learning platform. Scale will 
be achieved by expanding course sales into Scotland and Wales, increasing the sales of NVQs to external learners, and 
becoming a preferred provider for the Department of Work and Pensions (including Job Centre Plus) on initiatives to 
bring more people into the care sector.
Domiciliary Care (Franchises)
SURECARE
The business will continue to focus on improving the nature of the support that it provides with the objective of 
improving franchise values, by promoting the use of new technologies and continuing to introduce further economies 
into franchise operations through the introduction of partner organisations and group services. The launch of the new 
alarm product and associated services through the franchise and branch network combined with a new e-commerce 
facility forms an important part of our growth strategy for the coming year and will serve to strengthen and broaden the 
portfolio of service that the business offers to both its internal and external customers.
Pharmacy
PHARMASSURED
PharmAssured will deliver tailored domiciliary pharmacy services that meet both patient and carer needs exactly through dedicated
people, processes and systems. The key focus in 2008 is to market and provide our domiciliary pharmacy services to Claimar
Care’ s circa 1,600 service users across the Midlands. The initial focus on the Midlands, where PharmAssured’ s dispensing
operation is based, will allow further review, testing and reﬁnement of operating processes and systems prior to a wider roll-out
early in 2009. With a phased roll-out plan across the Claimar Care branch network, PharmAssured will be in a position to offer its
domiciliary pharmacy services to all of Claimar Care’ s circa 6,000 and SureCare’ s circa 5,000 service users by January 2010.
Domiciliary Care
CLAIMAR CARE LIMITED
The business will concentrate on delivering organic growth both from its existing branch network and by taking part in 
tenders for contracts in new geographical areas. In preparation for the launch of Individual and Personal Budgets the 
company will prepare and position itself as a key provider capable of supporting people through the transition from 
having a service commissioned on their behalf to being able to commission their own service with funding from their 
local authority. It will also create new services that can be provided to its existing service user base of around 6,000 
people and potentially attract new self-pay users.
Brand Name Strategy  www.claimar.co.uk
Claimar Care Limited
Claimar Care is currently the largest division of the Group and operates from around 40 local ofﬁ ces
based primarily in the Midlands and North West of England. 
Head Ofﬁ ce: Birmingham
The Complete Group
Complete is able to provide care throughout the country.
Head Ofﬁ ce: Telford
Paediatric Nursing Link
PNL provides its services throughout the London area.
Head Ofﬁ ce: London
Primary Care Training Group
The group provides training courses at venues across England, Scotland and Wales.
Head Ofﬁ ce: Chester
SureCare
SureCare now has over 30 franchises, operating from a variety of locations across England.
Head Ofﬁ ce: Chester
Pharmassured
PharmAssured is initially providing its services across the Midlands, before extending its coverage 
across the rest of Claimar Care Limited’s branch network and then the remainder of the Group’s
area of operations.
Head Ofﬁ ce: West Bromwich
3
Location 
