 4
In addition, since the trading update in June, we have 
won new contracts in Norfolk, a new geographic region 
for Claimar, Leeds and Leicester, and been successful 
in retaining existing contracts in St Helens, Lancashire, 
and Kirklees. There were no material contract losses in 
the period.
ACQUISITIONS
Two acquisitions were completed during the year,
including our largest acquisition to date.
The acquisition of Complete Care Group was completed 
on 1 November 2007. Complete is a market-leading 
provider of bespoke full-time care packages to adults
and children with severe disabilities including acquired 
brain or spinal cord injury, cerebral palsy, multiple 
sclerosis, muscular dystrophy and various 
other neurological illnesses.
CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
“Our family of carers make a real difference 
in the quality of life for elderly, vulnerable
and disabled people”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to present the Group’s results for the year 
ended 30 September 2008. 
PERFORMANCE IN 2007/08
Despite stronger growth and structural changes to the 
business in the second half of the year, the full year 
results, whilst in line with market expectations following a
trading update in June, are disappointing. 
2007/08 has nevertheless been another year of growth 
across many ﬁ nancial measures. Turnover increased
from £22.32m to £52.62m and the Group delivered
operating proﬁts* for the year of £4.67m (80% higher
than 2006/07) principally as a result of acquisitions.
The Group achieved organic growth of 4.29%. Earlier 
in the year we notiﬁ ed the market that we had been
awarded signiﬁ cant new or increased contracts in
Manchester, Rotherham, Leicester and Lancashire. 
* Before depreciation, share-based payment charge,
amortisation, acquisition and IFRS conversion related costs, 
and fair value movement on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments.
The acquisition of Complete Car
n 1 November 2007. Complete is a market-leading 
r of bespoke full-time care packages to adults 
with seve
ord injury, ce
dystrop
ses.
n line with market expectations following a 
trading update in June, are disappointing. 
2007/08 has nevertheless been another year of growth
CASE STUDY
TRAINING FOR CHANGING LIVES
The high quality of training provided to our carers enables them to change service users’ lives on a daily basis through the care which they provide. 
Often this means service users are able to continue living in their own homes, rather than moving into a care home. Sometimes our carers literally 
save service users’ lives, as the following example from our Cannock branch demonstrates.
Tracy Walker was making her regular morning call to the home of an 82-year-old Cannock lady when she noticed the smell of gas. The service user,
diagnosed with dementia and short-term memory loss, was unaware of the potentially dangerous situation. Tracy promptly swung into action, alert-
ing the emergency gas service and social services. She then swiftly opened doors and windows for ventilation and checked the gas cooker. Help 
arrived quickly and the gas leak was eventually tracked down to the gas boiler. Commenting on Tracy’s actions, a spokesperson from Staffordshire CC Social Care
and Health department said: “Tracy is certainly worthy of praise. Her vigilance and 
quick thinking helped to divert what could have been a tragedy. She remained calm 
and professional throughout and put the safety of her service user before her own.”
Congratulating Tracy on her achievement, the Cannock Branch Manager, Michelle 
Anderson, said: “Our company training programme ensures that our carers are well 
prepared for such emergencies as well as providing help with the day to day activities
that improve the lives of our clients.”
5
The Ravenscroft Group of companies was acquired in 
January 2008. Ravenscroft is a generic domiciliary care
provider which, at the date of acquisition, was delivering
nearly 9,000 hours per week to Lancashire County 
Council via nearly 400 carers.
The two acquisitions were ﬁ nanced by placing
18.25m new shares at 137p each to raise £23m (net 
of expenses). The placing was achieved at a minimal 
discount to the share price at the time, indicating a high 
level of shareholder support for the Board’s strategy.
BANKING FACILITIES
The Group has banking facilities of £25.5m in place. 
These comprise an £11m term loan (used to part fund 
the acquisition of Complete), a £12m revolving credit 
facility (of which £2.095m is undrawn) to ﬁ nance other
acquisitions, and a £2.5m overdraft facility to fund 
working capital.
The impact of the events outlined in our June trading 
statement and the lead time involved in generating a 
sufﬁ cient ﬁnancial response to them has meant that,
since our pre-close trading statement in September, it 
became clear that the Group would have been likely to 
breach marginally its interest cover convenant at the end
of December 2008.
We therefore held discussions with our bankers,
RBS, who remain very supportive of the Group and 
its prospects, and renegotiated this covenant test for 
December 2008. We do not now anticipate any breach 
of our banking covenants.
DIVIDEND
Shareholders will be aware from our Interim Report at 
31 March 2008 that there was no interim dividend 
payment (2007: 0.25p). The Board does not propose the 
payment of a ﬁ nal dividend for 2007/08 (2007: 0.5p) or
an interim payment for 2008/09.
BOARD CHANGES
As previously announced, Nick Townend joined the 
Group on 11 August 2008. I am pleased to say that Nick
has settled in well and is making a strong contribution 
to the Group’s ﬁ nancial management and the strategic
development of the Group’s activities.
PEOPLE
As always, I would like to thank all of our staff for their 
dedication and hard work during the year. In the care
sector our services are dependent upon the calibre of 
our workforce, who have worked tirelessly to deliver high 
quality care to service users, thereby positively changing 
many people’s lives. An example of this is provided in the 
case study below.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Trading in the current year has started well; the Group
is well positioned to beneﬁ t from the different sectors
of social and health care in which it participates. There
is signiﬁ cant opportunity for the businesses within the
Group not only to increase substantially the cross-selling
of their services to each other’s customers but also for 
the core businesses themselves to expand organically.
We believe we are well placed to continue to grow in the
current year.
John Crabtree
Chairman
18 December 2008
www.claimar.co.uk
