 “We work hard to maintain our reputation as
providers who really care about our people
and those who use our services”
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The summary of the Group’s activities set out below
illustrates the range of services now offered by Claimar
to people in receipt of care at home. Importantly, it also
underpins the Group’s strategy to achieve growth both
organically and by making selective acquisitions of
complementary businesses within the health and social
care sector, and by developing new revenue streams by
cross-selling new services to our growing service user
base. We believe that this approach places us in a strong
position to respond to changes in the way that services
are delivered across the sector.
Group activities now comprise:
l Claimar Care: Domiciliary care (mostly to older adults)
l SureCare: Domiciliary care franchising and medical
alert devices
l Primary Care Training: Health and social care training
l Complete Care: High acuity care services
l PharmAssured: Medication procurement and
management
Despite the increase in turnover and operating proﬁts
achieved during the year, the Group failed to deliver the
level of organic growth that had been planned with much
of the growth having been achieved from acquisitions
made. Overall, the Group achieved only 4.29% growth
organically. An under-performance across the Group with
regard to recruitment and retention severely impacted
our ability to grow. Following our trading update in June,
signiﬁcant restructuring took place which helped improve
performance in the second half of the year. The Group
beneﬁted in particular from strong performances in the
second half from Primary Care Training and SureCare, our
training and franchise businesses.
In the June trading update, we notiﬁed the market of
a number of factors which together were negatively
impacting the business. Since that trading update the
Board has initiated a number of actions to improve
performance, as detailed below.
CLAIMAR CARE
l Placed a temporary suspension on acquisitions to
enable the management team to focus on the core
business and deliver integration synergies.
l Implemented an organisational restructuring,
including the appointment of a Managing Director
and an additional Operations Director.
l Continued the roll-out of a new rostering data base
which will see all ofﬁces operating on one single
platform.
l Created a stand-alone Quality & Compliance team,
reporting directly to the Managing Director.
l Increased the focus on recruitment and retention
activity led by the new Group HR Director.
l Introduced tighter cost controls and better provision
of KPIs to allow better visibility.
COMPLETE CARE
l Implemented a management restructuring which has
seen David Burton, the Commercial Director, take
over from Barbara Scandrett, who has resigned from
CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
6 6
CASE STUDY
EXTENDING OUR SERVICES
Complete has extended its services to provide a new care service for young people who wish to live independently after college. Like any young 
couple, Alexandra and Matthew are enjoying making their ﬁ rst home together. They met as students at Portland College, Nottingham, a national
residential college for people with a wide range of physical disabilities, and have been together for more than two years. In November 2007, they 
took a major step in their relationship when they moved into a new property in Balderton, Newark.
The property is part of a joint independent living project between the college, the Newark ofﬁ ce of Nottinghamshire Social Services and Complete,
which provides round-the-clock support through live-in carers and daily care staff. Working with the care team, Alexandra and Matthew are further 
developing the day-to-day skills and conﬁ dence needed to live more independently in their own home rather than in residential accommodation. 7
www.claimar.co.uk
her role as Managing Director but remains as a Non-
Executive Director of Complete Care.
l Renegotiated or relinquished loss-making contracts.
l Introduced better recruitment processes and tighter
controls regarding the use of agency staff, which has
resulted in signiﬁcant cost savings over the last few
months.
l Initiated closer links with other Group companies
around training provision to generate cost savings.
SURECARE
l Restructured our offering to include a staged
payment process, in order to combat the downturn in
new franchise enquiries and conversion of sales.
l Removed some costs, pending the availability of
a new medical alarm due to be launched in
January 2009.
CLAIMAR CARE
This year has seen a number of challenges for Claimar
Care Limited. The business suffered in the early part of
the year due to an underperformance in recruitment and
retention, which in turn led to an inability to grow and
put pressure on the core business. There were at times
operational issues due to management stretch as the
company failed to integrate recent acquisitions properly.
In order to deal with the problems facing the business
at that time we suspended acquisition activity to
enable the management team to focus on the core
business, strengthened the management team with the
appointment of North and South Operation Directors and
refocused our efforts on recruitment and retention. We
have seen improvement in the second half of the year as
a result of these actions. The ﬁnal part of the restructure
was completed on 1 December with the appointment
of Mark Lavery as Managing Director of Claimar Care
Limited. Prior to accepting this post Mark was the
Managing Director of Celsian Healthcare and prior to
this was the Managing Director of Allied Health Care. In
the second half of the year Claimar has beneﬁted from a
number of new contract wins, in both existing and new
geographical areas, as well as the retention of existing
contracts that were due to expire and were retendered in
the open market. This performance underlines Claimar’s
ability to bid for, win and then deliver larger contracts,
something smaller providers in the market are ﬁnding
increasingly difﬁcult to achieve.
As stated in previous announcements, the market is
changing. In particular, the move to outcome focused
services and, in the future, the roll-out of individual
budgets and personal budgets will all beneﬁt Claimar’s
business model.
Given the current economic environment and the
Government’s target level of efﬁciency savings over the
next few years, we believe that whilst gross margin will
continue to come under pressure, the size of contracts
will increase as Local Authorities choose to work with
fewer but larger providers.
There are signiﬁcant savings for local authorities who
outsource some or all of their service. According to the
Laing & Buisson 2008 report on the domiciliary sector,
on average Local Authorities in England incurred costs
of £21.80 per hour which are now 68% more expensive
than the independent sector at £13.00 per hour.
Across England 78% of hours delivered and funded by
Social Services were provided by the independent sector,
and across those Local Authorities that Claimar currently
contracts with the average was 71%, suggesting that
there still remains a signiﬁcant opportunity for more work
to be outsourced.
Despite budgetary pressures in the market, and a
tightening of eligibility criteria, providers are still struggling
to match supply with demand caused by the increase in
our ageing population. In many parts of the country we
are aware that, despite funding having been approved
for service users by local authorities, those in need of a
service are still placed on a waiting list whilst providers
try to build the required levels of capacity. It therefore
follows that currently the only inhibitor for the growth of
the business is its ability to recruit and retain its staff,
something that in the current climate of job losses in other
sectors is already showing signs of improvement.
In summary, with an improved and strengthened
management team, improvements in our ability to recruit
and retain staff, our reputation in the market and our
proven ability to manage larger contracts, we believe
Claimar to be well positioned to grow
in 2008/09.
Alexandra has been getting to grips with the challenges of everyday tasks such as 
cooking and laundry. Matthew describes himself as “quite independent”, but likes 
the reassurance of knowing that there’s always someone around “in case something
happens”. He’s looking forward to doing voluntary work as a wheelchair football coach 
and says that he and Alexandra are out and about much more since they moved into 
the Balderton property. Shopping, going to the library, sports training, enjoying a drink 
at the pub or visiting Alexandra’s mum, who lives locally, are all activities they enjoy,
which also add to their quality of life and independence. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
8
In March 2008 Primary Care obtained approval to sign
up learners in other geographical areas and since then
the number of learners has grown from 90 to over 500. A
sustained recruitment campaign has grown the
NVQ department to 22 staff including a dedicated
recruitment/sign-up team and back room staff
responsible for supporting ﬁeld-based assessors.
In October the result of many months’ work to pass
the Learning and Skills Council’s (LSC) stringent quality
and ﬁnancial tests resulted in Primary Care being
awarded a contract to deliver NVQ qualiﬁcations under
the Government Train to Gain initiative in the West
Midlands. Primary Care immediately began a capacity
building exercise to recruit the infrastructure for delivering
qualiﬁcations in an extremely competitive marketplace,
including the appointment of an NVQ contracts manager.
The increase in quality of our NVQ provision has been
recognised in recent audit visits by City & Guilds and the
LSC and we showcased our achievements at an Ofsted
inspection in December. The take-up of new candidates
has resulted in a new LSC contract and we are poised in
2008/09 to start recruiting learners from outside the Group.
The original Primary Care core portfolio of public courses,
commissioned training and distance learning has been
updated and refreshed and now provides a strong
platform on which to grow in 2008/09.
The scarcity of good quality training providers, particularly
with such a wide portfolio of courses, gives Primary
Care an excellent opportunity for signiﬁcant growth.
As different areas of the business grow, so do the
opportunities of cross-selling products to customers who
have purchased services.
In summary, Primary Care Training begins 2008/09 with
a stronger range of products, fully resourced to respond
quickly to customer demand, particularly in the NVQ
division, and with a focused sales function, equipped
with professional marketing tools underpinned by a more
cohesive, ambitious strategy for growth.
SURECARE
Organic revenue growth during the year for our franchise
operation was 29% and has seen SureCare experience a
balance of challenge and success in continuing franchise
operations, new franchise sales and the development of
alarm services.
Despite recruitment difﬁ culties and an increasingly
competitive local marketplace, the franchise network 
COMPLETE CARE
Complete Group continued to have a strong referral
pipeline, although only beneﬁted from organic revenue
growth of 7%, due principally to an under-performance in
recruitment and retention. Proﬁt was adversely impacted
by substantially higher costs associated with the need to
use agency staff; this position has improved signiﬁcantly
in the second half of the year and is now in line with
our expectations. Complete Care has also diversiﬁed
into other types of complex disability care which has
contributed to the higher volume of referrals.
During the year the UK recruitment market has been
extremely difﬁcult, but during the last three months of
the year the situation has markedly eased with more
candidates coming forward. Following the changes
to the work permit regulations we have had to set up
new arrangements for the recruitment of staff from
other countries. This took six months to set up but is
now working well and supplying a steady stream of
candidates.
There is a great opportunity for Complete Care to
expand geographically into the South West, North East
and Eastern England and also to build on their existing
relationships with primary care trusts. The outlook for the
next year is very positive.
PRIMARY CARE TRAINING
Organic revenue growth from our training business was
a very pleasing 165% in the year. Primary Care has
rapidly grown to become a major provider of learning and
development in the healthcare sector. The past year has
seen many changes and Primary Care now bears little
resemblance to the organisation that Claimar acquired in
2007.
The beginning of the year saw Primary Care move
its head ofﬁce from Cheadle in Manchester to share
premises in Chester with another of the Group’s
subsidiary companies, SureCare. The existing Claimar
training department seamlessly took over the running of
Primary Care’s external operation and the Group Training
Manager became the Managing Director.
The start of the year also saw Primary Care identify a
potential market to develop paediatric courses, primarily
around the Ofsted requirement for local authority Early
Years teams, nurseries and child-minders to demonstrate
knowledge of paediatric ﬁrst aid. This venture has seen
the successful launch of this division of Primary Care and
winning of the business of several Local Authorities. In
2008/09 we have strong indications that we will become
the preferred provider for up to eight Local Authorities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW continued
city
delivering
ketplace,
acts mana
on has be
& Guilds
ments at a
p of new
and we
from ou
portfolio
ance le
w prov
008/09
ining
ourses
or sig
ss gro
oduct
beg
esou
ularly
ction
pinn
fran
ienc
hise
f 9
www.claimar.co.uk
enjoyed considerable success with their average 
revenues increasing by 23% in the period. Improvements
in volume have been driven by the ﬂ exibility of the
franchise model and by the broadening of the range 
and nature of the services offered, with innovative 
approaches to service and supply relationships being 
promoted and implemented.
The quality of services across the network has been 
enhanced through the commitment of our franchisees to 
meeting regulatory, corporate and contractual obligations
and through the delivery of services that meet outcomes 
for individuals. The process of improvements has 
resulted in 85% of services being classed as “good” or
“excellent” by our regulators. The business will continue 
to revise operating policy and procedure with support 
being geared to maintaining and improving standards 
of compliance and service in a changing regulatory 
landscape.
The franchise sales function of the business continues 
to be challenged by the wider economic conditions with 
the key aspects of the operation being focused on the 
recruitment of new franchisees and the identiﬁcation and
drawdown of funding for each of the new businesses. 
The franchise opportunity continues to be widely 
promoted. The revision of the franchise model mid-year,
combined with the active sales programme, has led to 
ﬁve new franchise territories currently being developed
with an improvement in the number and quality of 
franchise leads.
The development and promotion of our alarm and 
monitoring services have been adversely impacted by 
the continued delays in the design, development and 
manufacture of new alarm units. We have continued 
to work with our technology partners and delivery of 
the new product will be made in the ﬁ rst quarter of the
year. It will have a range of features that signiﬁ cantly
differentiate it in the marketplace and the process of self-
design and manufacture has resulted in UK exclusivity 
and an advantageous price-point. The launch of the new 
product and associated services through the franchise
and branch network combined with a new e-commerce 
facility forms an important part of our growth strategy 
for the coming year and will serve to strengthen and 
broaden the portfolio of service that the business offers
to both its internal and external customers.
PHARMASSURED
PharmAssured, our newly created pharmacy division, 
has been developed through Claimar Care’s in-
depth understanding of the domiciliary care sector.
PharmAssured, which began trading in November 2008, 
is a provider of tailored domiciliary pharmacy services 
that meet both patient and carer needs exactly and by 
doing so aims to promote and support the increasing 
numbers of people, especially the elderly, who wish to 
live independently.
PharmAssured will better manage the medication 
needs of vulnerable patients, particularly those on poly 
pharmacy treatments who receive on average six or 
more different types of medication at any one time, by 
making medication simpler and safer.
PharmAssured, through dedicated people, processes 
and systems, is ideally placed to provide domiciliary 
pharmacy services to Claimar Care’s circa 7,000 
service users and subsequently to market and provide 
domiciliary pharmacy services and carer support to other 
care providers nationwide.
SUMMARY
We are operating in a strong sector that is supported by
strong demographics, and a stated Government strategy
to provide care to more people in their own homes as 
a more cost-efﬁ cient way of delivering a service to an
ageing population, but also one that beneﬁ ts patients’
well-being. 
 
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Trading in the ﬁrst two months of this ﬁnancial year has
been positive, with Claimar Care performing broadly 
in line with budget, but Complete Care, SureCare
and Primary Care all marginally outperforming our 
expectations. Whilst 2007/08 was disappointing, actions 
taken in the second half of the year have placed the 
business in a stronger position to beneﬁ t in 2008/09
from the range of services it supplies. The focus this year
will be on leveraging the relationship between Group 
subsidiaries, but also on providing our pharmacy and 
training services to the wider market including external 
providers and commissioners.
Our focus in the current year will be to target signiﬁ cantly
improved organic growth across the Group. 
Mark Hales
Chief Executive
18 December 2008
promoted and implemented.
The quality of services across the network has been 
h the commitment of our franchisees to 
te and contractual 
s that meet outcomes
ents has 
“good” or 
ontinue 
rt 
d
care pr
UMMARY
are o
g de
ide ca
cost-efﬁ 
opulation, but also one that beneﬁ 
TRADING AND PROSPECTS
e ﬁ
, w
d
Care all marginally outperforming our
W
e
s
ge of services it supplies. The focus this year 
veraging the relationship between Gr
e
y
nd
ss o
ated pharmacy division, 
rough Claimar Ca
standing of the domiciliary care secto
PharmAssur
b
aining services to the wider market including exte
pr
