 I am delighted to report on another
successful year for Clarity Commerce
Solutions. There has been continued
improvement in financial performance,
with sales having increased by 22% to
£16.3m (2004: £13.3m) for the year
ended 31 March 2005. Gross profit
accelerated by 23% to £10.16m (2004:
£8.27m) in the same period. Adjusted
basic earnings per ordinary share were
4.03p (2004: 4.1p).
Profit before goodwill impairment and
taxation was £763k (2004: £744k), including
a total research and development cost of
£1.6m (2004: £1m), heavily focused on the
replacement of our Ticketing system
solution. It is pleasing to note that the year
ended 31 March 2005 was the fourth
successive year of profitability and growth.
During the year there has also been a series
of strategic developments, which position
the business strongly for ongoing profitable
growth.
Revenues from existing customers
represented 92% of the Group's total
revenue. Recurring revenue was £6.8m
representing 42% of the total (2004: £5.6m;
42%). The Group expects these recurring
revenues to increase over time and provide
enhanced visibility for future revenues.
Acquisitions and integration
In October 2004, Clarity acquired Baron
LRMS, a company focused on solutions for
leisure resorts. Its software, installed in
hotels and resorts, includes specialist
functionality for club membership
management, golf courses and health spas,
adding further depth to our leisure sector
offering. Baron was the Group's sixth
acquisition since listing on AIM in July 2000.
This last year has culminated in the
continuing integration of the acquisitions
made to date and the increasing realisation
of value as Clarity benefits from significant
cross-selling benefits and the ability to more
rapidly access new market sectors.
During the last year, we have focused on
the integration and enhancement of our
software product portfolio. Clarity now
chairman’s statement
John O’Connell, Non-Executive Chairman
John was founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Staffware plc, the leading independent global workflow and
business process management (BPM) software company. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants
(FCCA) and is recognised as one of Europe’s top IT entrepreneurs. 
6 Clarity Commerce Solutions plc provides a fully integrated solution for all
the business requirements of our hospitality,
ticketing and leisure sector customers. This
approach has already delivered sales, such
as the installation for Bracknell Forest
Borough Council, which incorporates Clarity
leisure software and smartcard systems
alongside our hospitality and retail software.
Strategy 
We are committed to delivering organic
growth using the Group's existing software
portfolio, based around our flagship
software solution, Clarity Central. Future
offerings will be based on the Microsoft
.NET development platform, helping us to
integrate solutions from additional
acquisitions and enabling the Group to
enter new market sectors and drive future
growth. The Group will continue to extend
its global footprint via direct and indirect
sales channels.
Geographic markets
UK business continues to dominate the
Group's revenue, comprising 75% of this
(2004: 81%). Notable UK successes include
the YO! Sushi restaurant contract, an
installation of Clarity Central to support over
400 Greene King pubs, a six-month Foreign
Office support services contract, further
penetration in the local authority sector,
and private sector contracts such as
London's Reebok Sports Club.
The acquisition of Baron extends the
Group's global reach, with clients such as
Jumeirah International in the Middle East.
Clarity's international sales have increased
both through our local offices and the
establishment of reseller partners in local
markets, and the Group has customers in
over 20 countries. In North America, there
has been a concerted effort to penetrate
the market for ticketing and entertainment
management software, together with
progress in the attractions and theme parks
sector. Our European office has also been
focused on growth in the existing cinema
marketplace, announcing a new
maintenance and support contract in April
2005 with cinema operator EuroPalaces,
worth €2.4m over 3 years.
Dividend policy
No dividend is recommended for this year, as
the Board has reaffirmed its dividend policy
that capital should be allocated to developing
products and driving future growth.
chairman’s statement
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 7 Board changes
I was delighted to accept the Board's
invitation to become Chairman with effect
from 7 April 2005. I look forward to
leveraging my experience in growing a
successful listed UK based software business
internationally, having been founder, CEO
and Chairman of Staffware plc, and to
helping the Board achieve the Group's
potential as a leader in its chosen markets.
Bob Morton stepped down as Chairman
this year, having been a key figure in
steering the Company through its early
phases of development. The Board, on
behalf of its shareholders, is extremely
grateful for his invaluable contribution in
these formative years.
David Shearmon, one of the founding
Directors of Clarity, has indicated his
intention to step down from his Board role
effective as of the AGM on 25 August, 2005.
I am very pleased to report that David has
expressed his willingness to continue with
the Group in a strategic and advisory role,
for which we are very appreciative.
Outlook
Clarity now offers world class software,
business intelligence solutions and IT
support services to the entertainment,
leisure and retail sectors. 
The Group is strongly positioned to
capitalise on the converging market for
entertainment software. Prospects in terms
of new business opportunities are high, due
in part to the fact that we have blue-chip
customers in Europe, the Middle East and
the US, who can provide reference points
for new customers and in so doing, help
drive further organic growth in these
markets. 
The Board will also seek to continue
generating growth through acquisition,
building on its experience of successful
integration of acquisitions over the last four
years. 
My colleagues and I are confident that the
progress reported here for last year in terms
of increased revenue and profits can be
sustained, based upon our current reading
of our markets, competitive position and
business environment generally.
John O'Connell
Group Non-Executive Chairman 
chairman’s statement
8 Clarity Commerce Solutions plc
Some of the facilities at The Reebok Sports
Club London, a Clarity software user
