 Overview
Clarity is well on the way to achieving our
goal of being a major supplier to the leisure
industry worldwide. Our solutions span the
entertainment, leisure and retail sectors,
where we are building a reputation for our
expertise in software, business intelligence
solutions and IT support services. 
The Group is continuing to expand its
international sales network.  Sales are
increasing in the US and Europe, as well as
in the Middle East and other markets
through our growing network of reseller
partners. Furthermore, our offices in each
country are being equipped and developed
as sales outlets for the wider Clarity
portfolio, to ensure that international sales
opportunities are maximised.  The
geographical split of revenues in 2005 was
as follows:
- 75% to the UK (2004: 81%); 
- 13% to the rest of Europe (2004: 13%);
- 11% to the US (2004: 6%); and
- 1% elsewhere (2004: nil).
One of the central drivers of this success has
been our commitment to integration,
structurally as well as in our approach to
product development. We expect this
integration to add value through improved
processes and reduced costs of delivery.
In terms of our products, we are integrating
our existing software portfolio, based
around Clarity Central, and adopting
Microsoft's .NET software development
platform, as the basis for all new offerings.
This integration is a palpable source of
competitive advantage. 
This year has demonstrated clear evidence
of the benefits of cross trading across our
divisions and market sectors, including:
- Completion of an integrated hospitality
and ticketing solution, already attracting
significant interest from cinema chains. 
- Delivery of innovative solutions to local
authorities in Bracknell and Bolton,
which combine state-of-the-art
smartcard technology with point of sale
(POS) and leisure management systems. 
- Increasing recognition of the value of
our Business Intelligence division's
solutions, as witnessed by orders from
Serco Leisure and other leisure
management customers. 
- Integration of hospitality services with
our dedicated Services division.
2005 has been an exciting year for Clarity, with a series of key developments which
position the business as a leading supplier to the global leisure industry, harness
value from previous acquisitions and open up exciting sales opportunities. Our
financial performance shows a significant increase in revenues through organic
growth as well as through the acquisition of Baron LRMS, and we are in an excellent
position to increase profitability through further penetration of the growth market
sectors on which we are focusing.
chief executive’s statement
Graham York, Chief Executive
Graham has a background in the business development of software products, both in this country and abroad. His experience
includes product design, adaptation of software to new markets, and marketing. He has also acted as a Director of two leisure groups
and worked for a number of years as a journalist. The founder of Clarity, he led the development of the original software portfolio. 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 9 Research and development
Clarity remains committed to product
development, which is underlined by our
£1.6m investment over the year in software
development and quality assurance work.
During the period, a dedicated Research
and Development department was
established which has made substantial
progress in integrating the Group's portfolio
of solutions around Clarity Central, based on
Microsoft's .NET platform. The .NET platform
offers major advantages to Clarity and its
customers and is contributing to a healthy
prospect list for our software products.  
Clarity's first .NET solutions are now installed
with clients including YO! Sushi restaurants
in the UK and Paramount Parks in the US.
A few months ago we announced our
intention to deliver a .NET-based ticketing
solution, and now Cinemagic has become
our first Ticketing division client to go live
with this software.
Market sectors and operations review
Clarity's sales increasingly combine
elements of software systems, business
intelligence solutions and IT support
services in broad ranging customer
solutions. 
Software
Clarity's markets can broadly be defined as
the hospitality, ticketing and leisure sectors.
Regardless of the specific sector where our
software is installed, the benefits are
constant - savings through operational and
management efficiencies, revenue
generation through innovative bookings
systems, increased control by corporate
management and improved customer
service levels.
The Group provides hospitality clients,
including major UK bar and restaurant
groups, with transactional systems covering
everything from electronic point of sale
(EPOS) and staff and cash management at
site level, to head office control systems.
Clients include many leading industry
names such as Greene King, Hall &
Woodhouse Brewery, Strada and YO! Sushi. 
In terms of ticketing clients, Clarity has a
very strong presence in the UK and Europe,
with 4 of the top 5 cinema operators using
our software. Ticketing solutions encompass
venue management, operation of box
offices and driving sales via the internet and
other third party channels. Clients include
Odeon, Cine UK, UCI and EuroPalaces (Pathe
and Gaumont). 
Recent sales to theme parks including
Paramount Parks in the U.S.A. underline the
potential for sales to non-cinema attractions
such as stadiums, attractions and
performance venues. Cinemagic, a U.S.
operator of stadium style theatres, became
the first cinema customer for Clarity's .NET
ticketing software (together with Clarity
POS software) in May 2005.
chief executive’s statement
10 Clarity Commerce Solutions plc chief executive’s statement
Leisure software clients include a diverse
range of operators seeking membership,
bookings and facilities management
systems, again with a strong focus on head
office control via a central platform. Clarity
continues to be a leading provider to the
public sector, with Birmingham City Council
and Serco Leisure running Clarity software
in 60 and 50 sites respectively. Our
innovative smartcard and internet bookings
solutions put us in a strong position to
capitalise on the growth potential of this
sector.
Clarity's leisure market presence has been
extended with the acquisition of Baron
LRMS in October 2004. Baron is an
established software supplier to hotels and
leisure resorts, with strong membership
management features and dedicated
applications for golf courses and health
spas. This has brought a prestigious private
sector client list on-board, with the addition
of names such as Gleneagles, St Andrews,
the Reebok Sports Club (London) and
Jumeirah International, the Middle East's
leading hotel company. Clarity is driving
software sales through an active reseller
partner programme, and is achieving
notable sales success in Spain following the
development of a Spanish language
solution.
Business Intelligence 
Clarity's Business Intelligence offering
follows the March 2003 acquisition of
Romulus Enterprises. Sales continue to
increase, with independent revenue streams
developing and standardised business
intelligence solutions for accounting, ERP
(Enterprise Resource Planning) and HR
(Human Resource) systems. Customers
operate in the Group's core hospitality,
ticketing and leisure markets, and
increasingly in the wider retail,
manufacturing, production and transport
sectors.
The integration of business intelligence
solutions to Clarity's core product has
attracted huge interest and growing sales
from existing Clarity clients in all sectors,
with several new contracts, including that
with Serco Leisure. This integrated offering
is proving a major sales feature in all
markets.
Clarity Business Intelligence division clients
include Robert Wiseman Dairies plc,
Raytheon Systems and JD Wetherspoon,
and the Group is now accredited to sell and
implement the Cognos Enterprise Planning
suite. The number and type of training
courses run in partnership with Cognos
have also been extended, with strong client
attendances driving additional revenues.
Services
Clarity acquired our Services division in
2003, offering helpdesk and training
services to support clients across the retail
and hospitality markets, as well as providing
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 11 support to Clarity's existing software clients.
It operates on a full-time, 24-hour basis and
provides support in five languages.  New
sales during the period include a one year
rolling contract to provide first level
helpdesk services to Warnaco for their 25
European Calvin Klein and Speedo retail
outlets, a contract supporting 600 network
connections for TFM's clients including
Travelodge, Officers Club, Co-op, Uniqlo and
H&M, and supporting 70 major Jarvis Hotels
on behalf of ATM, as well as multiple
contracts with Wincor Nixdorf.  
A six month Foreign Office contract
involved implementation and training
services to support Visa payment
processing software, with on-site training
delivered in 140 Visa offices, worldwide.
Further training contracts included
supporting a hotel software rollout for
Travelodge, providing training resources to
other major hotel groups including De Vere
and Hilton, and introducing new customer
booking software to staff from
approximately 500 Specsavers stores. 
We have recently announced that
BT Expedite, the retail software division of
BT, has awarded Clarity's Services division a
five year contract to the value of £2 million
for the provision of helpdesk services to one
of its major high street retail clients.
People 
Clarity has the benefit of a highly talented
and loyal workforce, delivering that rare
combination of new sales together with
improved customer service levels. The Board
would like to thank all members of our
team for their magnificent contribution to
the continued success of the Group.
The challenges of integration are also
generating opportunities to 'grow' people
into new roles, and we are helping and
training employees to seize these
opportunities. The move to integrate our
software based on the Microsoft .NET
platform demands a sharp learning curve
from our development team, to which we
have recruited a number of key new
members. For other staff there are equally
exciting challenges, with the shift from a
divisional focus to a much broader and
more integrated sales effort to maximise
cross-selling opportunities.
Clarity owes Bob Morton, who has
relinquished his role as Chairman, an
enormous debt of gratitude. He has
presided over a pivotal phase of the Group's
development, and remains an active
shareholder with a strong relationship with
the Board.
John O'Connell has been appointed as
Clarity's Non-Executive Chairman, and I
welcome his arrival. John was founder,
Chairman and CEO of Staffware plc. His
contacts and knowledge gained from the
successful development of Staffware and its
partner-based sales strategy will be of great
benefit to Clarity.
Finally, David Shearmon, one of the
founding Directors of Clarity, has indicated
his intention to step down from the Board.
He will continue in a strategic and advisory
role; functionally he will work with the CTO
and CEO on specific aspects of software
development and the technical implications
of acquisitions. 
David has been instrumental in helping the
Group achieve its aims, and the Board
would like to thank him for his dedication
chief executive’s statement
12 Clarity Commerce Solutions plc and loyalty over the past 12 years. These
changes to his circumstances are made
with the Board's support, and are designed
to satisfy the Board's continuing need for
David's abilities.
Summary
Clarity has achieved continued growth in
the past year, but more significantly I
believe, has made huge strides forward in
integrating and developing our products to
capitalise on our strengths and the
opportunities a converging market
presents. Our acquisitions have been
embedded in the business and are
performing increasingly well. New sales are
being generated on the basis of Clarity's
capability to provide broad ranging
solutions encompassing software, business
intelligence and IT services elements.
We have invested significant effort and
resources to migrate our software to the
Microsoft .NET platform, and this process
continues apace. The move to .NET will
stand us in excellent stead in the long term,
offering clear advantages to our clients as
we deliver next generation solutions that
take their business to new levels. Together
with this investment, we have a well-
established and dedicated team of people
that are relishing the prospect of
developing, selling and delivering such
innovative business solutions.
We continue to pursue our goal of
establishing Clarity as a leading IT supplier
to the global leisure industry, and look
forward to further growth in 2005/2006.
Graham Y ork
Group Chief Executive
chief executive’s statement
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 13
The Reebok Sports Club London, uses Clarity software
