 Clarity Annual Report Chief Executive’s Review 9
Ken Smith BA CA
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
I am pleased to report a solid set of 
results in which Clarity has exceeded its 
market expectations, which have been 
underpinned by multiple contract wins 
across its core divisions. 
When I joined Clarity in June 2007, the 
Group faced a series of management and 
operational challenges which were detracting 
from its significant long term potential. Post 
restructuring, the past two years have seen 
the Group transformed into a growing, 
profitable, cash-generative business. The 
key to delivering each of the components 
of this transition has been our ability to set 
realistic targets and achieve them and, in 
so doing, rebuild confidence across our 
stakeholder groups from customers through 
to shareholders. As a result, despite a difficult 
first year, we achieved a return to profitability 
underpinned by a strengthened financial 
position post a successful fund raising which 
demonstrated our shareholders’ faith in the 
business. 
The year ended 31 March 2009 has seen the 
Group move from recovery to growth and, in 
turn, produce solid profits and cash flows. 
I am now looking forward to the current 
financial year, in which I believe Clarity can 
build on its unique combination of sector 
expertise, people, products and customers, 
and become known for its innovative, quality 
solutions and financial performance.
Financial highlights
During the year to 31 March 2009, profits 
were ahead of market expectations, despite a 
difficult economic environment. The Group’s 
results may be summarised as follows in the 
table above.
These results are in line with our previously-
stated objectives of building a steadily-
improving performance on firm foundations. 
Moreover, and most welcome in present 
trading conditions, our cash position improved 
considerably, and a year end drive succeeded 
in eliminating net debt (excluding deferred 
earn out consideration) despite payments to a 
number of long-standing creditors.
Our aim is to grow the business, both 
organically and acquisitively, should 
opportunities arise, but we intend to make 
distributions to shareholders once our 
reserves, sustained profitability and cash 
balances prudently permit. 
Divestment/closure of non-core businesses
At the start of the year we divested two 
businesses which the Board identified as 
non-core. Cyntergy Services Limited and the 
trade of Romulus Enterprises Limited were 
sold for cash consideration. We also closed 
the unprofitable US ticketing business in 
December 2008.
Board, management and staff
Over the past year, I have been rewarded 
with the contribution of many talented 
people. Indeed it has been one of my 
pleasures since joining the Group to work 
with and cultivate Clarity’s strong team, both 
in the UK and abroad. I believe we have an 
excellent management group, led by some 
particularly able managers, including:
Tony Houldsworth, founder of MATRA 
Systems and recently appointed to the 
Board, who provides visionary, innovative 
solutions to clients and prospects, and is 
a master of presenting complex technical 
matters at the highest level.
Stuart Mitchell who, pending our 
appointment of a full-time successor, 
has held the post of Interim CFO. Stuart 
has done an excellent job and will 
remain with us for several months in 
order to provide a seamless handover to 
Chris Ford, who joined us in April 2009. 
•
•
I am delighted to welcome Chris, who 
comes with highly relevant experience of 
our sectors, to the Company.
Dr Wolfgang Buscher, who leads our 
European Entertainment business, and 
provides consistently strong revenues 
and profits, coupled with strategic vision.
There are many other people in our Group 
worthy of mention, at all levels of the 
business. Morale is high and the Group now 
operates increasingly as a global team.
Cross-sector capability
In the second half of the year, we reorganised 
the Group’s operations to maximise our 
opportunities and maintain an agile response 
to customers and prospects. Whilst 
retaining our divisional expertise in Retail, 
Hospitality, Leisure and Entertainment, we 
have sought to cross-fertilise our skill-base 
and technology to offer product solutions 
integrated across differing domains. 
Increasingly, in customer presentations, we 
are offering solutions which knit elements 
from our wealth of established divisional 
products to provide best of breed integrated 
solutions. This has the advantages of 
re-using existing, proven technology, and, 
unlike most competitors, offering across-
the-board solutions to major prospects. Our 
integrated technology can, for example, 
provide a theme park with gate ticketing, 
entry to specific shows, complex and simple 
food and beverage operations, provide a 
corporate memory on individual consumers’ 
behaviour, loyalty as well as reward 
programmes, and merchandising.
•
Year ended
31/03/09 
£’000
Year ended
31/03/08 
£’000
 
Continuing operations:
Revenue 17,683 15,364
Operating profit/(loss) before amortisation 1,298 (6,734)
Net finance cost (187) (413)
Profit/(loss) before tax and amortisation 1,111 (7,147)
2009-annual-report-22-06-09a.indSec1:9 Sec1:9 22/06/2009 17:47:51 10 Chief Executive’s Review Clarity Annual Report
Chief Executive’s
Review cont
Product development
During the year we spent £3.57m 
(2008: £3.81m restated to include subsidiary 
costs) on research and development, and 
are committed to an ongoing programme 
of developing and enhancing our product 
portfolio to ensure that we continue to meet 
market requirements.
As explained previously, much of our focus is 
on providing integrated solutions to large and 
small customers alike. 
In our Hospitality Division, a recent example 
of our approach is Mar Hall, a fine Scottish 
spa and golf hotel. Providing this client with 
an integrated solution to their requirements 
afforded an opportunity to bring together 
a number of Clarity products to provide a 
functionally-rich integrated solution. Similar 
activities are underway on a larger scale with 
contract caterers, cinema operators and 
other prospects.
In our Leisure Division, great progress has 
been seen with the release of initial elements 
of our new product. Rather than a “big 
bang” approach, this development is being 
conducted module by module, thereby 
retaining the rich features of the legacy 
solution, but with flexibility, modern look and 
feel, and minimal training requirements of an 
up-to-date technology which leapfrogs our 
competitors. Initial reactions from the user 
base are very positive.
Our Retail Division, both in Europe and in 
the US, has continued to add features to its 
point of sale solutions. Key additions offer 
stored value and customer loyalty packages, 
very important areas for customers during 
recessionary times, as well as added value 
services such as solution centre, a powerful 
add on for multi-site operators which 
extracts, cleanses and presents transactional 
data to management in order to provide near 
real-time business statistics. 
Entertainment developments have seen the 
integration of widget information extracted 
from the point of sale database and pushed 
automatically to senior management in 
cinema chains. For example, cinema 
managers, or regional management can 
receive near real-time data on tickets sold 
by film, site or region, on a laptop, PDA or 
mobile telephone.
Divisional performance
Clarity retains key expertise in a number 
of sectors – Retail, Leisure, Entertainment 
and Hospitality. During the latter part of the 
year, following a review, it was concluded 
that the “Ticketing” Division could be better 
described as providing solutions for the 
“Entertainment” sector and this terminology 
will be used henceforth.
Our Entertainment and Retail Divisions had 
very good years, contributing strongly to the 
Group’s result. Each of the other divisions, 
Hospitality and Leisure, was profitable and 
produced strong end of year performances, 
which should provide a good platform for 
future success.
Clarity’s Entertainment Division operates 
primarily in the UK and France. Both 
areas saw new openings and product 
enhancements and, once again, our French 
operation won key orders for Automatic 
Ticketing Machines (ATMs) and data 
warehousing solutions. 
Our Retail Division had an excellent year, 
especially in Europe. By concluding the earn 
out arrangement pursuant to its acquisition, 
MATRA Systems management have been 
able to focus on broader Group issues as 
well as winning and delivering a strong 
stream of business from new and existing 
customers including Flytoget, Schuitema, 
Amsterdam Harbour, Universal Studios and 
several other key wins. Our operation in 
Raleigh, North Carolina, is performing well, 
both in terms of IBM 4690 enhancements 
and also in providing an upgrade path for 
users wishing to migrate to MATRA’s point of 
sale and related solutions.
Leisure activities included the sale of new 
product modules for a number of customers, 
widget solutions for a health club client and 
considerable product enhancement activity in 
connection with PCI compliance, a hot topic 
for many of our customers. Plans to release 
further modules of the new product over the 
coming year are well-advanced, and the user 
group is very positive about our approach. 
Hospitality, revitalised under a new 
management structure, is showing increasing 
promise, having concluded several key 
orders from existing and new customers, 
and developed a good pipeline of interesting 
prospects. The hotel and resort product 
solutions have been integrated and are being 
sold as a package and, despite the market, 
activity in the hotel sector is fairly active. 
With key orders from Peel Hotels and Oxford 
Hotels and Inns, the Division is now firmly on 
the radar in its industry.
Contract wins
During the course of the year the Group 
has won a series of significant contracts 
across all of its core divisions and territories, 
which includes the UK, Europe and the USA. 
Examples of these contract wins include:
Oxford Hotels & Inns, a leading British 
hotel group with 43 sites across the UK; 
EuroPalaces, the owner of Pathé and 
Gaumont cinemas in France, and a 
leading cinema circuit and multiplex site 
operator in Europe;
PriceSmart, a cash and carry chain 
based in San Diego with warehouses 
throughout Central America and the 
Caribbean; 
A major US bedding and speciality store 
with around 1,000 stores in the USA, 
Puerto Rico and Canada;
Peel Hotels, a major UK-wide hotel 
chain;
Dienst Binnenwaterbeheer Amsterdam 
(’BBA’), which is responsible for 
the commercial management of 
Amsterdam’s waterways; and
Universal Studios, Florida, to supply 
their Orlando theme park with all of their 
Point of Sale solutions for food and 
beverages. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Operations
Our people are the core of our business, and 
their productive deployment is key to our 
ability to provide our customers with cost-
efficient, timely solutions. During the year, we 
took a close look at the way we conducted 
our business and the implications of this on 
our customers and cost-base. Each of our 
costs was scrutinised and a number of cost-
reduction activities implemented, saving a 
significant sum.
As a result, we have reshaped the Group 
during the year, with the business now being 
centred on Business Development and 
Solutions Delivery. As the name implies, the 
Business Development group comprises our 
sales and account management activities 
to win, and retain, customer orders. Within 
the Group we retain the domain expertise 
of the Retail, Entertainment, Hospitality and 
Leisure Divisions, but overlay a Group-wide 
level of management capability to ensure we 
maximise our potential revenue opportunities. 
Results since the reorganisation last autumn 
have been most encouraging, especially 
given the inevitable overlap between many 
businesses acquired and built over a number 
of years.
Having secured business from a customer, 
responsibility for its delivery, installation 
and post sale support is provided by our 
Solutions Delivery group. This includes 
solution specification, software development 
and test, configuration and installation, 
together with its support once live. Our 
mission is to win many more customers, and 
then provide support and help at a level such 
that they remain loyal to Clarity for their future 
technology requirements.
Over time, the Group has acquired and 
developed a great deal of software and our 
focus is on deploying as much of this as 
possible in our product development rather 
than rewriting these components. The new 
management structure facilitates the cross 
sector use of our software which reduces 
time to market and development cost, and 
offers customers an opportunity to employ 
new elements of Clarity’s software.
Current trading and activities
In line with earlier periods, trading towards 
the year end was extremely busy. Each 
of our divisions delivered good results 
and, as already mentioned, we exceeded 
our targets. We have entered the new 
financial year with a continuing brisk level of 
implementation activity with hotel roll outs 
and other deliveries in the first quarter of the 
current financial year. Our year is cyclical, 
however, and I would anticipate 2009/10 
demonstrating a typical weighting towards 
the second half of the year.
Prospecting activities remain strong and our 
reputation is increasingly placing us on high-
profile tender lists. Nevertheless, like most 
businesses at present, we are experiencing 
longer sales cycles, with some orders being 
delayed or cancelled in exceptional cases, 
hence our aim is to fill our order hopper with 
enough opportunities to withstand some 
fallout. Our customer base, new-found 
reputation and cross-sector capabilities 
certainly help this process, but with the poor 
macro-economic environment we have to 
continue to work harder to secure quality 
business.
2009-annual-report-22-06-09a.indSec1:10 Sec1:10 22/06/2009 17:47:58  
Clarity Annual Report Chief Executive’s Review 11
In the past, one of our weaknesses has been 
the lack of Clarity brand awareness due to 
our size, low product integration and limited 
marketing. Over recent months we have been 
working to improve our marketing and PR 
and, in particular, on a rebranding project 
designed to launch Clarity as a provider 
of leading edge, quality, well-supported 
solutions across multiple sectors. The new 
Clarity look is based around not only a 
changed logo, but also some key messages:
our extensive experience and 
understanding of the consumer 
interface;
our cross-sector ability to help our 
customers better engage with their own 
customers;
our fresh approach to technology 
– innovative and people oriented.
By drawing on a small group of highly-
experienced professionals, we have achieved 
our rebrand at a fraction of the normal cost 
for a business of our size and complexity. 
This, in itself, demonstrates a more agile 
approach to the way in which we conduct 
ourselves.
Outlook
The economic environment for many 
businesses across the world is poor. Clarity 
is not immune to these pressures and 
the fight to win and retain customers is 
tough. Nevertheless, with problems come 
opportunities, and we have seen some 
valuable successes due to competitors’ 
misreading of the need to provide agile, 
cost-efficient solutions and to support and 
help the customer once the sale is secured. 
We have had to step up a gear in customer 
communication, cost control and the way in 
which we offer solutions to our customers. 
Our staff have stepped up to the mark and 
we are doing better than many as a result.
Nevertheless, we remain vigilant about risks 
as well as driving opportunities and we must 
stay on the front foot to address the changing 
market. Provided we continue to listen to 
customers’ needs and concerns, we can 
flourish in this market and hence I remain 
cautiously optimistic that we can continue 
our good progress in the coming year.
Our market reputation is a function of 
our delivering to expectations. We set 
expectations with, and make promises 
to, customers and we must honour these, 
sometimes in difficult circumstances. 
Because we do this, we enjoy an expanding, 
prestigious customer base of which we are 
very proud.
Prospects are therefore encouraging and we 
have started the current financial year with 
enthusiasm and energy.
Ken Smith BA CA Chief Executive Officer
22 June 2009
•
•
•
Our people are 
the core of our 
business, and 
their productive 
deployment is 
key to our ability 
to provide our 
customers with 
cost-efficient, 
timely solutions.
2009-annual-report-22-06-09a.indSec1:11 Sec1:11 22/06/2009 17:47:58
