 6 Chairman’s Statement Clarity Annual Report
John O’Hara
Group Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that, during the past 
year, Clarity has continued to deliver on its 
promises and has made good progress in 
building upon the solid foundations of the 
previous year. 
The Group achieved its planned return to 
profitability with an Operating Profit of £1.3m 
before amortisation of £0.6m. A strong year 
end, as seen in 2008, led to pre tax earnings 
slightly ahead of market expectations despite 
taking the prudent step of creating a number 
of one-off provisions. 
This outstanding result was achieved by 
delivering valuable products and services to 
our customers, a trend we plan to continue. 
For the first time in many years, we were 
pleased to finish the year end with a net cash 
position (excluding deferred consideration 
liabilities), as a result of profitable trading, 
strong cost containment and debtor 
management. 
Group debt has progressively reduced over 
the past two years and, whilst we will retain 
our term loan facilities, being cash positive 
was a very new and pleasing experience for 
the Group.
These results confirm the continuing progress 
we have made since reporting our half year 
results in November 2008. Our progress 
has seen not only solid ongoing and repeat 
business from our established customer 
base but also significant contributions from a 
number of high profile new customers gained 
during the year, including Universal Studios 
in Florida, the Peel and Oxford Hotel chains 
in the United Kingdom and a major US retail 
chain which we cannot name for commercial 
reasons but which has over 1,000 stores.
Despite the current economic climate our 
customers are continuing to invest in our 
products and services and, whilst we have 
seen some delays and increases in the 
length of sales cycles, we remain cautiously 
optimistic about the future.
Although Clarity’s customer base is primarily 
composed of retailers and operators of 
various leisure venues, for the most part their 
revenue flows through our software and this 
enables them to make improvements to their 
profitability by investing in new products and 
services that we can offer.
By working with Clarity, our customers are 
also gaining benefits from being able to 
access functionality from similar industries to 
their own. For the future this approach offers 
exciting new features to our customers at 
relatively low cost and removes some of the 
expense and risk to us in developing new 
products.
Of course a technology group like Clarity is 
really only as good as the people we have 
within the Group and we are very fortunate 
to have a great team of over 160 passionate, 
motivated and focused people working for us. 
Under Ken Smith’s excellent leadership 
morale has never been better and our staff 
have an air of confidence and enthusiasm 
that I have not seen previously. We are also 
seeing positive comments about the Group in 
the trade and financial press.
We are seeing the benefits of the strong 
financial controls that have been introduced 
in the past year and whilst there are several 
ongoing projects to further reduce costs 
where possible, for the future our primary 
focus is now on revenue generation.
During the year we were also pleased to 
have Tony Houldsworth join the Board as 
an Executive Director. Tony has moved from 
responsibility for our Retail division to a 
Group-wide role and has been instrumental 
in finding ways to leverage our experience 
across divisions and in finding new products 
to bring to our customers.
I look forward to meeting shareholders again 
at our Annual General Meeting which we 
expect to hold on Friday 24 July at our offices 
in Basingstoke. 
In addition to routine business at the meeting 
we will also be seeking shareholder approval 
for our proposed employee share option 
schemes, full details of which will be sent out 
with the Notice of Meeting. 
The Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) and 
Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) schemes will 
be based on normal parameters allocating a 
maximum of 10 per cent of the Company’s 
shares over a 10 year period. I have 
canvassed many shareholders over the last 
year and all have been supportive of the 
idea of implementing such plans. We see 
this as a key way of retaining and rewarding 
those who can directly affect shareholder 
value by aligning their interests with those of 
shareholders.
Our Articles of Association require one 
third of the Board to retire by rotation 
each year. Accordingly, Ken Smith and I 
will both be standing down at the Annual 
General Meeting and are both available for 
re-election to the Board. We will also be 
seeking shareholder confirmation of Tony 
Houldsworth’s appointment to the Board and 
that of Chris Ford, whom I am delighted to 
welcome as our new CFO.
We are also taking the opportunity at our 
AGM to revise our Articles of Association 
to take account of recent Companies Act 
legislation. Full details of these changes, and 
those pertaining to our option schemes, are 
included in the Notice of Meeting.
I would like to thank my fellow Board 
members for their hard work and wise 
counsel throughout the year. We have worked 
very well as a team and Board members have 
all made additional contributions outside 
of their normal roles. We are fortunate that 
Board members, having very different and 
complementary skill sets, have been able 
to bring a wide range of experiences to 
the Group. Prospects remain cautiously 
optimistic for the current year and, having 
returned to profitability, this provides an 
opportunity for us to make some changes 
to the structure of the Group’s trading 
companies which are intended, inter alia, 
to facilitate the payment of dividends to 
shareholders in the future in accordance with 
a prudent distribution strategy. 
Finally I would like to again thank 
shareholders for their continuing patient 
support during the past year. Restoring 
shareholder value to the Group remains the 
fundamental objective for all of us.
John O’Hara MBIE Group Chairman
22 June 2009
2009-annual-report-22-06-09a.indSec1:6 Sec1:6 22/06/2009 17:47:43 Of course a technology 
company like Clarity is really 
only as good as the people 
we have within the Group 
and we are very fortunate to 
have a great team of over 
160 passionate, motivated 
and focused people working 
for us. 
2009-annual-report-22-06-09a.indSec1:7 Sec1:7 22/06/2009 17:47:51 I have been rewarded with 
the contribution of many 
talented people. Indeed 
it has been one of my 
pleasures since joining the 
Group to work with and 
cultivate Clarity’s strong 
team, both in the UK and 
abroad. 
2009-annual-report-22-06-09a.indSec1:8 Sec1:8 22/06/2009 17:47:51
