 Overview
The Clarity Group has enjoyed another 
year of strong performance and, despite 
a challenging trading environment, again 
exceeded market expectations.  Although 
key orders took longer to conclude than 
had been anticipated, the long-awaited 
major wins started to flow towards the 
end of the financial year, amongst which 
Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd and Pret 
A Manger have been key.  In addition, the 
pipeline has continued to build, both in 
terms of quality of opportunity and value.  
With its products and brand now well-
established, and a much improved, scalable 
organisation, the Group is well-positioned in 
several important markets. 
Financial Highlights
Revenues increased to £19.1m, up from 
£17.7m in 2009, representing growth of 8%, 
whilst gross margin was maintained at 82%.  
Tight control of overheads, which rose only 
3%, and a decline in net finance costs from 
£187,000 to £54,000 meant that profit before 
tax and amortisation increased by 67%  
to £1.9m. 
Amortisation on intangible assets was £0.4m 
(2009: £0.6m) and taxation on profits was a 
net credit of £0.6m (2009: £0.0m), resulting in 
retained earnings of £2.0m (2009: £0.5m).
The Group’s cash position remained healthy, 
and was further improved by the receipt of 
£2.6m, net of expenses, from our placing in 
October 2009. 
As described in the Chairman’s Statement 
healthy profits, and an internal capital 
reorganisation carried out during the year, 
have resulted in Clarity’s parent company 
being placed in a position where it can pay 
dividends once sustained profitability and 
cash flow render it prudent so to do.  For 
the immediate future however, it remains the 
policy of the Board to invest for the growth 
that, when achieved, would bring both capital 
enhancement and dividend returns  
to shareholders. 
Contract wins and prospects
Individual key contract wins have been 
discussed elsewhere, and it should be 
stressed that, in addition to the major 
successes announced during the year, a 
great number of smaller orders were taken 
from existing and new customers, many of 
which prefer not to be named for commercial 
reasons.  Suffice to say that, despite the 
economic environment, the Group achieved 
its financial targets and added some very 
important new clients to its already extensive 
list. 
With a challenging trading environment, deals 
have been harder to close as our customers 
and prospects have naturally been cautious 
about their own expenditure.  However, the 
Clarity proposition has some very strong 
features which dovetail well with customer 
budgets under pressure.    
Key amongst these are:
our strong focus on the consumer •	
experience.  Our customers target their 
own share of their customers’ retained 
income and strive to increase customer 
spend.  Hence technology which 
improves customer retention and spend 
is one of the last budget elements to be 
cut, if at all; and
our ability to protect and enhance •	
legacy investments dramatically 
reduces costs in a “mend and make 
do” environment.  This is particularly 
pertinent in our retail business, 
where our strength in extending and 
migrating customers from the ageing 
IBM 4690 system lends itself to strong 
opportunities with major retailers, 
especially in North America.
Hence, despite economic pressures and 
concerns, our pipeline remains strong at 
a time when some of our competitors are 
finding the environment very difficult.
Divisional Performance
Each of the Group’s divisions made good 
progress during the year.  In particular:  
Retail
The Retail business enjoyed strong revenue 
growth especially in our US operations in 
Atlanta, Georgia and Raleigh, North Carolina.  
Although orders were biased towards the 
latter part of the year, key orders were 
secured for a variety of well-known retailers.  
Our operation in Raleigh continues to 
thrive, supporting existing IBM 4690 users, 
and offering new solutions, both from our 
own stable and from other retail software 
providers. Our strategy of using our IBM 
4690 migration capability to increase our 
penetration on the US retail point of sale 
("POS") market is gathering pace with several 
important bids under way.
In Europe, revenues were slightly ahead 
of 2009, with improved margin, with key 
deliveries to Co-op Denmark, Schuitema 
(now C1000), Flytoget, Amsterdam Harbour 
and Focus DIY , where our point of sale 
solution has now been rolled out to over half 
the estate.  Recent orders include Bakker 
Bart, a Dutch bakery chain, and a major UK 
retailer that will utilise ClarityLive to greatly 
enhance their personal shopping experience.
Chief Executive’s 
Review
Year ended
31/03/10  
£’000
Year ended
31/03/09  
£’000
 
Continuing operations:
Revenue 19,081 17,683
Operating profit/(loss) before amortisation 1,909 1,298
Net finance cost (54) (187)
Profit before tax and amortisation 1,855 1,111
Clarity Annual Report     10 
Chief Executive’s Review
Ken Smith BA CA
Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive’s 
Review
Former company and product 
names have been replaced by 
the refreshed Clarity brand,  
and this has had the benefit  
of cohesion in our sales and  
operational efforts.  Steadily the 
Clarity name and its associated 
quality are gaining impact. 
Ken Smith, Chief Executive Officer  Chief Executive’s 
Review cont
Leisure
Clarity’s Leisure business, which has spent 
the past few years developing its new 
product set, saw several key orders towards 
the end of the year, resulting in revenues 
increased by 20%.  These orders, and 
the activity level post year end, are most 
encouraging.
Our strategy of offering our new ClarityLive 
for Leisure product via a simple migration 
process for existing customers has paid 
off and we are seeing strong interest and 
enthusiasm from our customer base.  At 
the same time our new solution has very 
successfully competed head on against 
the other major players in the market.  
Feedback in other competitive bids is 
equally encouraging and we anticipate a 
strengthening of our position in the market.
Hospitality
Hospitality, which includes our Hotels and 
Resorts business, enjoyed a good year.  In 
2009, we sold off our low-margin legacy pub 
solutions business to a reseller, which had 
the effect of reducing revenue, albeit with 
minimal profit impact.  Off-setting this was a 
key win with Pret A Manger, which operates 
well over 200 premium sandwich restaurants 
in the UK, Hong Kong and the US.  Roll 
out has commenced with vigour and has 
been praised by the customer.  Finally, as 
icing on the cake, our solution was selected 
by Weston super Mare Pier for an exciting 
rebuild project designed to rejuvenate the old 
pier site which was severely damaged by fire 
in 2008. 
At the same time our relationship with YO! 
Sushi and Sodexo continued to strengthen 
with opportunities to deliver more of the 
ClarityLive suite to each, to augment their 
continued expansion programmes.
Our Hotels and Resorts unit also saw good 
progress, increasing revenues and margins 
despite a slow market.  The Oxford Hotels 
and Inns roll out, comprising some 43 sites, 
was achieved in the early part of the year, 
and our solution was well-received with the 
customer.  Elsewhere, as our brand and 
reputation grows, relationships are emerging 
in several hotel chains, and Clarity is now 
preferred supplier in an increasing number of 
groups.  Good wins were recorded against 
fierce competition with Bespoke Hotels, 
The Legacy Group, Classic British Hotels, 
De Vere Venues and Bannatynes.  Although 
unsurprisingly, the market is a little slow, 
current bid activity remains strong.   
Entertainment 
Entertainment had a solid year and the 
conclusion of a major order from Merlin 
Entertainments Group, although having 
limited effect on our financial results for 
2010, should contribute significantly to the 
coming years.  Hot on the heels of our Merlin 
success, we received an order from Efteling, 
a major amusement park operator in Holland; 
this contract is in its early stages.
In the UK, cinema business was slow, 
with few new site openings, although in 
France business was brisk, especially in 
the first half of the year.  Sales of ATMs in 
France, together with additional ClarityLive 
components into existing customers, ensured 
that overall cinema performance was ahead 
of the previous year.
Our investment in the new ClarityLive for 
cinema product has been significant and this 
will be unveiled at the major cinema events 
this year.  The timing of this product release 
has been good with a number of customers 
considering system upgrades.  We have 
several proposals under way and expect our 
new product to be well-received.
Clarity re-brand
Last summer we embarked upon a 
rebranding project which involved a 
completely new look and feel to the business, 
coupled with a restructured management 
approach.  The effect of these changes 
was to bring together all companies, 
people and products within a single Clarity 
message.  Nearly one year later, although 
some elements remain to be completed, the 
rebrand has been a major success. Former 
company and product names have been 
replaced by the refreshed Clarity brand, and 
this has had the benefit of cohesion in our 
sales and operational efforts.  Steadily the 
Clarity name and its associated quality are 
gaining impact. In our marketing efforts the 
new brand is working well.  An upgraded 
website, stationery and collateral are 
universal, and our people have a greater 
feeling of being part of a single worldwide 
team.  Operationally, during the year, the roll 
out of 43 Oxford Hotels and Inns sites and 
around half of the Focus DIY retail estate 
was challenging, yet successful.  Currently, 
our solutions delivery teams are working 
extremely hard with simultaneous rollouts 
under way in several geographies.  These 
activities underpin the rationale for our recent 
acquisition of Cyntergy and its specialist 
skills will assist us in similar future projects.
Management and staff
Clarity is positioned in a fast-moving 
environment where change is constant.  
Accordingly, there is a need regularly to 
refresh and enhance our management and 
structure, and to ensure that procedures 
and controls are relevant and effective.  This 
process will continue and accelerate as we 
grow further.
In the UK, our sales team has been 
strengthened with key appointments, and our 
solutions delivery team has been extended in 
order to keep abreast of customer demand. 
Further appointments are planned as we 
address existing and new markets.
In Holland, where we have seen strong 
business growth in the past year, our team 
has been enhanced to include local skills and 
knowledge in the areas of sales, support, 
project management and business analysis.  
With several recent contract wins, this 
process is dynamic and stretching, but our 
team is responding well.
Our US business has grown strongly over 
the past year, and such growth has brought 
many successes and challenges.  We are 
well-positioned in this market with exciting 
technology and opportunities, and our goal is 
to continue and indeed accelerate our recent 
growth whilst augmenting our management 
and operational structures to cope with 
this demand. Again, we have added to our 
sales and operational resources in each of 
our US sites, and further appointments are 
pending.  Our projections show an enormous 
potential for our products and services in this 
territory and, following a recent management 
reorganisation, North America is a key area 
of focus. 
Our highly successful business in France 
has continued to deliver on various fronts.  
New product development places us in 
good shape with our key customers, and 
prospects for new business are encouraging. 
We suffered a setback in April 2010 with the 
untimely death of Dr Wolfgang Buscher, our 
much respected CEO in Paris.  Nevertheless, 
Wolfgang would have been proud of the 
manner in which his team rallied around 
and communicated internally and externally, 
continued his strategy and ensured continuity 
of the business he nurtured so well.  With his 
successor now in place, he would be pleased 
that our French operation is in very good 
hands.
Product strategy and solutions delivery
With our rebrand over the past year, our 
product strategy has centred on the creation 
of ClarityLive, a set of products and services 
focused on enhancing our customers’ ability 
to engage with their customers.  ClarityLive 
comprises an extensive set of software, 
designed to operate together to provide the 
customer with the best possible experience 
when purchasing products and services, 
via whichever medium he or she chooses.  
Today’s consumer demands choices and 
information, together with outstanding 
customer service.  If the vendor fails to offer 
this level of service, the consumer simply 
buys elsewhere.  
Clarity’s suite of products and services 
addresses these challenges by providing 
its own customer, who may be a hotelier, a 
retailer, a restaurant or an amusement park 
operator, with the tools with which to provide 
outstanding service, thereby encouraging 
the consumer to do more, buy more, and 
remain loyal.  This may be by offering, for 
example, the best in-store or hotel reception 
experience, or may be the provision of 
seamless internet booking, or even access to 
services via Blackberry or iPhone.  Whatever 
medium is chosen, ClarityLive is designed to 
accommodate our changing technological 
environment.
Across the product range, ClarityLive is being 
enhanced and integrated, bringing the best 
ideas, solutions, practices and technologies 
from across different verticals to each of 
our markets.  The resulting proposition 
is emerging as highly-compelling, made 
possible by an already advanced and well-
designed product family.  Once complete, we 
believe the suite will place us firmly ahead of 
Clarity Annual Report     12 
Chief Executive’s Review Our improving  
reputation and  
market awareness  
are resulting in  
healthy levels of 
prospect activity.
the competition, and it is already delivering 
tangible wins, such as:
our loyalty and business intelligence •	
functionality, originally developed for 
retail, is being sold into cinema and 
hospitality applications;
our golf and spa booking capability is •	
being sold into retail stores;
our food and beverage capability is •	
being installed in all divisions; and
our cinema ticketing capabilities are •	
being offered in amusement park and 
similar applications.
Our ultimate goal is to achieve one set of 
fully-integrated products encompassing 
all elements of the consumer purchase 
experience, via whichever channel is 
selected, and to provide outstanding post-
sale support to our customers in providing 
these solutions.
Acquisition of Cyntergy
As mentioned earlier, following the year end 
on 28th May 2010, Clarity re-acquired the 
business and assets of Cyntergy Services 
Ltd, the IT helpdesk and training company 
based in Sunbury on Thames.  Cyntergy 
provides a 24/7 multi-lingual service desk 
to several major high street retailers, and to 
the hotel, leisure and telecommunications 
markets. In addition, Cyntergy currently 
provides IT support and related services 
for Clarity’s software.  Our intention is that, 
with the integration of Cyntergy, in addition 
to enhanced revenue opportunities, Clarity 
can provide the best possible post sale 
experience to its customers, thereby further 
differentiating the Group from its competitors.
Current trading and activities
Good bids and tenders are under way in all 
territories and we are enhancing our sales 
and operational resources to address higher 
activity levels.  In an increasing number of 
areas we will be working with resellers to 
extend our reach.
Resellers will form a key component in our 
planned growth, with several already in 
place and more identified for relationship 
building both in existing territories and new 
geographies. 
The management team is being further 
strengthened at all levels in order to address 
increasing activity levels and opportunities.   
Our team is strong and we will continue to 
develop our organisation as new revenues 
are secured.
Outlook
World-wide market conditions remain 
difficult for most businesses.  However, 
good order prospects remain across each 
of our chosen markets and, although the 
sales ordering process has inevitably 
taken longer in some cases, our improving 
reputation and market awareness are 
resulting in healthy levels of prospect activity.                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                        
With a significant level of repeat business, 
anticipated further Merlin and Pret rollouts, 
and good order-gathering activity under way, 
we remain cautiously confident about the 
Group’s prospects.
Ken Smith BA CA Chief Executive Officer 
28 June 2010
