 Chairman’s Statement
Several key orders were won 
during the year in each of our 
target markets, and these  
confirm the Group’s growing 
reputation for leading edge  
software solutions which  
can enhance our customers’  
revenues and improve their 
business efficiency.
Sir Colin Chandler, Group Chairman  It is with pleasure that I offer my first 
Annual Report Statement as Chairman of 
Clarity Commerce Solutions plc ("Clarity", 
the "Company", or the "Group"). 
Against a background of challenging market 
conditions, the year to 31 March 2010 has 
again been positive for the Group, with a 
sound financial performance, coupled with 
significant customer wins and technology 
developments.
Under the leadership of Chief Executive, 
Ken Smith, Clarity’s revenue increased 
with that much sought after combination 
of contributions from both existing and, 
importantly, new customers. This, coupled 
with a strong focus on cost containment, 
resulted in an increase of 67% to £1.9m 
in profit before tax and amortisation. It 
is pleasing that Clarity has again kept its 
promises to shareholders.
Several key orders were won during the  
year in each of our target markets, and  
these confirm the Group’s growing reputation 
for leading edge software solutions which 
can enhance our customers’ revenues and 
improve their business efficiency.
These results build on the work of John 
O’Hara whom I succeeded as Chairman 
in August 2009. John, who is based in 
New Zealand, became Chairman in 2007, 
when the Group was underachieving and 
shareholders had little confidence in the  
then management team. Despite the 
difficulties associated with communication 
and travel, John retained his commitment 
to the Group until it was clear it had been 
restored to good health.
On the basis of this strong performance for 
the year ended 31 March 2010, our attention 
has now turned to future growth and how we 
can deliver it to enhance shareholder value. 
As part of this process, the Board has been 
strengthened by appointments which give  
us a mix of skills and experience well-suited 
to a growth business.
In order to provide that important 
combination of challenge to and support 
for the management team, our two new 
Non-executive Directors, David Bennett and 
Colin Wells, come with backgrounds different 
to each other, but both share considerable 
experience of achievements in customer 
facing businesses. David’s career and 
expertise in banking and finance enhances 
our corporate governance and business 
analysis needs whilst Colin’s career in senior 
sales and marketing roles in our sector,  
is already giving us improved capability  
in the capturing of prospects and in revenue 
enhancement. In a short time, both have 
made their presence felt to very positive 
effect.
I take this opportunity to express my thanks 
and appreciation to Steve Bellamy who, 
for two years until March 2010, provided 
valuable service during Clarity’s turnaround 
phase.
The Board has also been strengthened 
by the arrival of Steve Sadler, ACA, who 
became our CFO in April 2010. He has a 
wealth of experience in senior finance roles, 
mainly in IT businesses and since replacing 
Chris Ford, who resigned in January 2010, 
Steve has already proved to be an excellent 
member of our team. I believe that the 
composition of Clarity’s Board now is exactly 
what we need for directing the delivery 
of our growth strategy, while maintaining 
prudent fiscal management.  In the early 
part of the financial year, we undertook an 
internal capital restructuring. This project was 
designed to achieve operational efficiencies, 
whereby all UK trading was conducted via 
one entity, achieving simplified accounting 
and management. A further benefit of 
this reorganisation was the creation of 
distributable profits in our holding company, 
thereby establishing a platform for future 
dividends when sustained profitability and 
cash flow have been achieved.
In October 2009 the Company raised 
£2.6m net of expenses through the issue of 
6,812,500 new Ordinary Shares at 40p per 
share. The proceeds of the placing were 
applied to reduce the balance owing to the 
vendors of MATRA Systems (Holdings) Ltd, 
and to strengthen the balance sheet by 
eliminating net debt. The MATRA acquisition 
provides a key element of Clarity’s business 
going forward, and its former owners, who 
sold the company to Clarity in 2006, were 
owed £3.1m in remaining consideration at 
the time of the placing. Approximately £1.5m 
of the net placing proceeds were applied 
to reducing this debt, with the remaining 
balance being settled by monthly cash 
payments covered by trading receipts.
In addition to the financial benefits mentioned 
above, the placing brought a number of 
new, prestigious shareholders onto our 
register which now boasts some very strong 
names, and members of the Clarity Board 
again demonstrated their confidence in the 
Company by investing £100,000 as part of 
the placing.
On 28th May, after the end of our financial 
year, Clarity announced the acquisition of the 
business and assets of Cyntergy Services 
Ltd for a maximum cash consideration of 
£150,000. Cyntergy, which was previously 
owned by the Group until 2008 when it was 
sold for £500,000, provides IT service desk 
and training services to the retail, hospitality 
and leisure markets, principally in the UK, but 
also internationally. Its service desk is a 24/7 
multi-lingual operation based in Sunbury on 
Thames.
The re-acquisition of this business was driven 
by a combination of need and opportunity. 
Earlier this year Clarity announced two 
multi-million pound contract wins with Merlin 
Entertainments Group Ltd and Pret A Manger. 
Since then further key contracts have 
been won, and these and other contracts 
increasingly require comprehensive support 
and services expertise. Continuing to support 
existing customers is a vital part of Clarity’s 
business and the inclusion of Cyntergy not 
only enhances our capability considerably 
but also gives us a competitive advantage.
Clarity is a people business and it is they 
who, with their commitment to our products 
and customers, make the difference in our 
continuing pursuit of growth. I offer them, 
on behalf of the Board, our considerable 
gratitude for their achievements. Our 
shareholders have continued to provide us 
with support and loyalty and they deserve our 
thanks too. More importantly they expect to 
see their investments rewarded and I believe 
that they will not be disappointed.
Sir Colin Chandler Group Chairman 
28 June 2010
Chairman’s Statement
Clarity Annual Report       9 
Chairman’s Statement
Sir Colin Chandler
Group Chairman
