 02
ClearSpeed Annual Report and Accounts 2005
At a glance
Markets
High-performance computing 
Growth in demand for high-performance computers (HPC) is being driven 
by a combination of factors, two of which are particularly important. 
Firstly, HPC systems are no longer required just by government and academic
research laboratories, they are now also a critical tool in key industries which we
see as the wider commercial space for HPC and include important sectors such as: 
• Life Sciences & Biotechnology 
• Energy, Oil & Gas 
• Scientific Computing 
• Digital Content Creation 
• Financial Analysis & Modelling 
Secondly, while specialised systems such as IBM’s Blue Gene, or those from 
Cray, NEC and SGI, meet the need for special purpose systems at the very high
end, in the wider commercial space for HPC a fundamental change has occurred.
Here the use of standard processors, those that have delivered so much in terms
of the cost and capability of PC’s and servers, has come to dominate – for example,
in the year 2000, there were 4 Intel processor-based systems in the TOP500
supercomputer list, whereas in 2005 this had grown to 333.
As in other spaces, the use of these Central Processing Units (CPUs) has brought
HPC systems to a price point where they can be increasingly widely adopted by
these important industries. This has been made possible because companies such
as Intel and AMD have been so successful in exploiting “Moore’s Law” to deliver
CPUs in which performance has doubled approximately every two years. 
Applications
Life sciences & biotechnology
This is a rapidly growing market due to the need
to accelerate the testing of new drug candidates
based on the information made available by
sequencing the human genome. ClearSpeed 
is working with a number of organisations to
accelerate their applications. As part of the 
Tokyo Institute of Technology project, we are
porting amber – a package of molecular
simulation programmes.
Energy, oil & gas
When it costs over $5 million to drill 10,000 feet
below the earth’s surface, high-fidelity seismic
imaging is critical to minimise the risks.
ClearSpeed is committed to help solve the
computational challenges of high-resolution
seismic imaging. ClearSpeed’s roadmap for
delivering high-performance, low-power
streaming co-processors is an ideal enabler 
to the rapid adoption of industry-standard 
CPU-based systems.
In practice
“This is a significant
achievement by ClearSpeed.
We are very pleased that 
the company has chosen 
to demonstrate the potential
of the CSX600 on our
IntelliStation at Heidelberg.”
Dave Turek
Vice President of Deep Computing 
IBM
“We see ClearSpeed as
delivering a key technology
for the next wave of cluster
development and are
delighted that the value 
of this within Sun’s solutions
was immediately validated 
by the Tokyo Institute 
of Technology win.”
Marc Hamilton
Director of Technology, Global Education 
and Research
Sun Microsystems ClearSpeed Annual Report and Accounts 2005
At a glance
03 03
Scientific computing
Research institutions that depend on 
high-performance computing can use
ClearSpeed’s co-processors to accelerate 
existing clusters or workstations. ClearSpeed 
is developing maths libraries such as BLAS,
LAPACK, and FFT.
Digital content creation
With the need to render more complex models
using more sophisticated algorithms, the
processing requirements for visualisation are
increasing continuously. ClearSpeed’s processors
can accelerate these applications, bringing the
performance of a render farm to the desktop.
Applications include animation, physics
modelling, rendering and non-linear editing.
Financial analysis & modelling
Financial companies need to get accurate results
fast to minimise their risk. By accelerating the
analysis and processing of data, ClearSpeed’s
processors can speed the generation of results
and allow more sophisticated models to be used.
The requirement for performance that exceeds the rules of Moore’s Law has been
achieved by increasing the number of CPUs employed in a system. 
In HPC, while adding CPUs is the best solution for many users, there are costs in
terms of power consumption, cooling and space which, for other customers, drive
the need for a new class of processor. Such a processor, termed a “co-processor”
because it would be designed to run alongside and complement those general
purpose CPUs, enables the CPU to continue to do all of the mainstream
processing but off-load the particularly compute-intensive floating point
operations in which HPC performance is measured. 
ClearSpeed is focused on providing this new class of co-processor to a growing
market need, and is becoming increasingly recognised as a leader in the market. 
Embedded systems 
Although ClearSpeed designs its processors primarily to meet the needs of the
HPC market, it has also seen interest within Embedded Systems markets. These
are markets in which systems are not designed as conventional computers but
have intense processing requirements; for example those used in medical
imaging systems.
“Intel’s leading processor-
based HPC platforms are 
the most widely deployed
across high-performance
computing. We see
ClearSpeed’s CSX600 
as a complementary
architecture enhancing
solutions for industries 
such as engineering design,
bio-sciences and research.”
Ben Bennett
Manager of Intel’s world wide 
HPC Program Office
“ClearSpeed’s CSX600
delivers impressive
computational performance
per watt… Combined 
with industry-standard
processors, users can create
accelerated systems with
performance and density far
superior to non-accelerated
systems… that’s pretty 
cool stuff.”
Nathan Brookwood
Principal analyst
Insight 64
“ClearSpeed’s technical
innovation brings high velocity
acceleration to the AMD64
platform for high-performance
computing applications.
ClearSpeed co-processors 
are complementary to 
single- and multicore 
AMD64 solutions and enable
significant acceleration 
in high-performance
computing applications for
workstations and servers
powered by the AMD
Opteron
™
processor with
Direct Connect Architecture.”
Pat Patla
Director of Server/Workstation Marketing,
Microprocessor Solutions Sector
AMD
