 Clinigen Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
06
Review of the year
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report on a strong year of growth for Clinigen Group plc 
(“Clinigen” or the “Group”) where we overachieved on the commitments 
we made at the IPO, delivering year end results ahead of market 
expectations. The Group overall has performed very well, with a 49% 
increase in sales to £1 22.6m, a 30% increase in underlying EBITDA 
to £22.4m and, importantly, all three operating businesses have 
contributed to this organic growth. I am also particularly pleased 
with the success of the IPO and how it has supported the business 
strategy of international growth. 
We continue to make significant strides in pursuit of our strategic 
objectives, evidenced by our ability to continue to take market share 
in our services businesses of clinical trial supply and global access 
programs. We have also added to our product portfolio in Clinigen SP , 
with the acquisition of Cardioxane and in-licensing of Vibativ . Clinigen’s 
unique ability to distribute medicines to both licensed and un-licensed 
territories continues to resonate with our customers.
Shaun Chilton, Chief Operating Officer , has been appointed a Group 
Director and joined the Board to strengthen the operational presence. 
Shaun has been instrumental in leading a recent strategic review of 
the operational businesses which sets our expectations for the next 
five years. This review has highlighted numerous opportunities to 
continue to grow by extending our global footprint as well as our 
product and customer base. One of our key strategic objectives has 
been to grow our presence within our markets and Clinigen now has 
a good portfolio of valuable customers which as well as giving us 
tremendous opportunities also gives us greater resilience. In addition, 
we continue to pursue further acquisitions that could add value to our 
products portfolio.
We continue to make 
significant strides in pursuit 
of our strategic objectives.
Peter Allen, Chairman
Summary
•	 The Group overall has performed very 
well, with a 49% increase in sales to 
£1 22.6m, a 30% increase in underlying 
EBITDA to £22.4m and, importantly, all 
three operating businesses have 
contributed to this organic growth
•	 Shaun Chilton, Chief Operating Officer , 
has been appointed a Group Director 
and joined the Board
•	 Subject to approval at the AGM on 
29 October 2013, the Board proposes 
to pay a final dividend of 2.0 pence 
per share www.clinigengroup.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Corporate governance Financial statements Review of the year
07
The market dynamics have not changed significantly since the IPO 
with the trends affecting our business continuing to look positive. 
The Group has made an encouraging start to the current 
financial year .
Clinigen values corporate governance highly and the Board believes 
that effective corporate governance will assist in the delivery of our 
corporate strategy, the generation of shareholder value and the 
safeguarding of shareholders’ long-term interests. We are committed 
therefore, as far as is reasonably practicable and appropriate to our 
size and stage of development, to ensure the Group is managed in 
accordance with the principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
The Directors have adopted a progressive dividend policy. Subject to 
approval at the AGM on 29 October 2013, the Board proposes to 
pay a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share. T ogether with the interim 
dividend of 0.6 pence per share paid in March, this makes a combined 
dividend for the year of 2.6 pence per share. 
We would like to thank all our stakeholders – customers, suppliers, 
employees and shareholders – whose continued support has 
contributed to our success.
P Allen
Non-executive Chairman
24 September 2013
2.0 pence
proposed final dividend
49%
30%
increase in sales
increase in 
underlying EBITDA
