 Clinigen Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
08
Review of the year
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Overview
Clinigen has had a strong year of growth, delivering on commitments 
made at the IPO. In turn, listing on AIM has lived up to our expectations, 
giving us a strong platform from which to develop the Group, both in 
the UK and internationally. Through the IPO, we were able to raise 
additional funding to support our acquisition plans and accelerate 
our international growth strategy. We have also further invested in 
the infrastructure and recruited additional high quality people.
In the financial year 2013 (“FY13”), the three operational businesses 
grew organically , principally through extending the customer footprint, 
global pricing and reach. These strong results demonstrate the 
successful delivery on this strategy . By taking advantage of our global 
capabilities and unique skill in delivering our medicines into both 
licensed and unlicensed territories, we aim to continue this organic 
growth strategy going forward. In parallel, the Group’s strategy is 
to add to its portfolio of medicines in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals 
business through acquisition and in-licensing. This aim has been 
achieved for FY13 with the addition of two products: the acquisition 
of Cardioxane from Novartis and the in-license of Vibativ into Europe 
from Theravance.
Although we spent considerable time preparing for the IPO in the 
first half of the financial year , the Group’s operational management 
remained focused on business and delivered a 49% increase in sales 
to £1 22.6m (201 2: £82. 1m) and 30% increase in underlying EBITDA 
to £22.4m (201 2: £1 7 .3m) with all three operating businesses 
contributing strong organic growth. Underlying pre-tax profit 
increased by 29% to £20.4m (201 2: £15.8m). 
T otal gross profit increased by 21 % to £35. 1m (201 2 £29.0m) as 
a result of the growth in all three operating businesses. The newly 
acquired Cardioxane contributed £0.6m to revenue and gross profit, 
which were the same because Novartis continued to sell and 
distribute the product, under a transitional agreement, with only profit 
attributable to Clinigen. Product sales with associated costs will be 
recognised by Clinigen as and when Clinigen takes over 
management of the supply chain in each territory.
Listing on AIM has lived up 
to our expectations, giving 
us a strong platform from 
which to develop the Group.
Peter George, Chief Executive Officer
Summary
•	 The three operational businesses 
show strong organic growth, principally 
through extending the customer 
footprint, global pricing and reach
•	 The Group’s operational management 
remained focused on business and 
delivered a 49% increase in sales to 
£1 22.6m and 30% increase in 
underlying EBITDA to £22.4m
•	 Clinigen CTS is our largest contributor 
to sales and, in FY13, it generated 
sales of £87 .8m and a gross profit 
of £11.4m
•	 Clinigen GAP in FY13 had sales of 
£10.5m and a gross profit of £3.9m
•	 Clinigen SP in FY13 had sales of 
£24.3m and gross profit of £19.8m
•	 The acquisition and in-license of 
two new products, Cardioxane, 
an oncology toxicity treatment, 
and Vibativ, an antibiotic for MRSA, 
has extended the products’ portfolio www.clinigengroup.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Corporate governance Financial statements Review of the year
09
Administration costs were £20.5m including non-underlying costs 
of £5.9m, which mainly related to IPO costs and share based 
payments. Excluding non-underlying items, administration costs 
of £1 4.6m (201 2: £13.0m) grew by 13% in order to support the strong 
organic growth of the operating businesses.
Reported pre-tax profit of £1 4.5m is 42% up on the prior year 
(201 2: £10.3m). The Board proposes to pay a final dividend of 
2.0 pence per share. 
Current trading and outlook
We believe that Clinigen has overachieved on its commitments made 
at IPO; sales and profits are ahead of market forecast, with organic 
growth contributions from all three operating businesses.
Clinigen CTS is expected to remain the main revenue generator 
in FY1 4, with a continued focus on global growth and margins. 
Clinigen GAP’s full year sales were expected to grow in FY13 
and delivered more than six times growth on a like for like basis. 
For Clinigen GAP , new business has started very promisingly 
and we expect further significant growth into 201 4. In Clinigen SP , 
we expect steady growth to continue from Foscavir sales, but the 
focus for FY1 4 is the successful transition and integration of the 
two new products, Vibativ and Cardioxane, and increasing their 
contribution to the business. In Clinigen SP we continue to pursue 
further acquisitions that could add value to our portfolio. 
The Group has made an encouraging start to the current financial year , 
with revenues in the two months ended 31 August 2013 in line with 
expectations. In the coming twelve months we expect to see 
continued organic growth in line with our previously 
expressed expectations.
Operational overview
Clinigen CTS
Clinigen CTS is our largest contributor to sales and in FY13, 
it generated sales of £87 .8m (201 2: £58.8m) and a gross profit 
of £1 1 .4m (201 2: £10.0m).
During FY13 Clinigen CTS continued its expansion: activity with US 
customers was up 58% to £58m (201 2: £37m), customer numbers 
continue to grow in total, up from 52 in FY1 2 to 72 in FY13, and those 
generating over £1m in sales grew from twelve in FY1 2 to 1 7 in FY13. 
In total in FY1 3, Clinigen CTS had 1 , 1 00 requests to supply clinical trials, 
sourcing 578 medicines for 72 different customers. Clinigen CTS also 
extended its exclusive supply agreements with both Astra Zeneca and 
Accord, and remains focused on achieving market leader status. 
A recent independent market review has shown the clinical trial 
comparator drugs market is estimated to be US$1 .5–2.0 billion annually 
and it is predicted to grow at an estimated growth rate of 8% per 
annum by volume over the next three years. It is also predicted to 
become more specialised and complex with increased demand for 
expensive, hard to source large molecule products and with supplier 
companies requiring greater expertise for handling and transportation, 
particularly cold chain. Stricter traceability and control through the 
supply chain, single approval for products in Europe and regulations 
to reduce the threat of counterfeiting are expected to further favour 
specialist suppliers, like Clinigen.
In light of the market size and development and the key drivers supporting 
that, the Clinigen CTS operational business recently reviewed its five 
year strategy and whilst it is aiming for market leader status, it intends 
to achieve this through global organic growth, targeting the  top 50 pharma 
companies which incur significant Clinigen CTS spend. We will focus 
on demonstrating Clinigen’s value-added specialist services and 
their advantage over in-house or wholesaler options. New services 
are being considered to keep the value proposition differentiated. Clinigen Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
10
Review of the year
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Clinigen GAP
Clinigen GAP was targeted to deliver significant organic growth, and 
having achieved better than six-fold revenue growth over the prior 
year is now becoming a significant part of the Group’s sales and 
gross profit. In FY13, GAP had sales of £10.5m (201 2: £1 .6m) and 
a gross profit of £3.9m (201 2: £0.7m).
GAP has managed a number of large access programs during FY13, 
the largest of which were Astellas’ Enzalutamide early access program 
and Sanofi’s Campath withdrawal program. Clinigen was proud to 
be rewarded by one of these customers with an award for excellence. 
In addition BTG’s extended access programs for Voraxaze and 
DigiFab have been added to in 201 4 with the addition of a third 
program for Uridine T riacetate as well as new programs from Astellas 
starting in FY1 4. 
FY13 was the first year with no lower value, non-exclusive UK-only 
supply business included in the figures. We transitioned out of this 
work in FY1 2 but it still accounted for 29,000 unit shipments last year . 
The GAP business now focuses on the exclusive supply of medicines 
through Global Access Programs which accounted for only 2,000 
units shipped in FY1 2 but 31 ,000 in FY13. This revised strategy has 
driven the significant revenue growth for the year . 
Clinigen is one of a few specialist service providers in this new market. 
During the recent strategic review it became clear that to date little 
data exists to support overall market size, as a result Clinigen has 
commissioned an independent market review, the report of which 
is expected by Q2 FY1 4. 
As with Clinigen CTS, the aim is to become the market leader in this 
sector and again, organic growth is the preferred route. There are 
different customer targets across product and portfolio lifecycles for 
the early and mature access programs with the non-launch market 
programs giving a large and as yet relatively untapped customer 
group. However , GAP has a healthy pipeline and expanding customer 
base, and Clinigen expects significant growth to continue through 
FY1 4. 201 4 will also see the launch of Cliniport, Clinigen’s on-line 
management support tool for GAP customers which will enable 
scalability in this business.
We will focus on demonstrating 
Clinigen’s value-added specialist 
services and their advantage over 
in-house or wholesaler options.
Foscavir use by market
Japan 20%
France 7%
Canada 2%
Italy 8%
Spain 4%
Netherlands 1%
Germany 11%
UK 6%
Israel 1%
Others 9%
USA 30% www.clinigengroup.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Corporate governance Financial statements Review of the year
11
Cardioxane and Vibativ
The acquisition and in-license of two new products, Cardioxane, 
an oncology toxicity treatment, and Vibativ, an antibiotic for MRSA, 
has extended the products’ portfolio. Clinigen SP’s strategy 
is to continue to build the pipeline and plans to secure further 
deals in FY14. 
The two new products strengthen the portfolio in other ways too. 
Cardioxane, used for the prevention of chronic cumulative Cardiotoxicity 
caused by Doxorubicin or Epirubicin predominantly in breast cancer 
patients, has a strong footprint in South and Latin America and 
South Korea. Supplying the product into these territories significantly 
strengthens our presence in these markets for our other products. 
Cardioxane also enhances Clinigen’s oncology portfolio and fits 
our revitalization criteria. We are confident that there are a number 
of opportunities for its growth.
Vibativ, for the treatment of adults with hospital-acquired pneumonia, 
known or suspected to be caused by MRSA, is a medium to long-term 
growth product for Clinigen. It is patent-protected until 2026 in Europe 
and it is a market entry product as it has yet to be sold in Europe where 
Clinigen holds the rights. Clinigen has transferred the European 
Marketing Authorization and is in the process of reactivating the EU 
license. Vibativ strengthens Clinigen’s anti-infective portfolio and 
complements Foscavir which treats one of the viral causes of hospital 
acquired pneumonia. We do not expect European product to be 
available for supply until Q3 FY1 4; however , US product became 
available in September 201 3. As a result, Clinigen will run its own access 
program making US product available until EU product is manufactured; 
something that no other Specialty Pharma company could do.
Clinigen SP
Clinigen SP’ s performance in FY 1 3 was predominantly the result of sales 
of the anti-viral treatment Foscavir . Our new products, Cardioxane and 
Vibativ, as expected, made minimal impact during this financial year; 
we expect them to start to contribute more in 201 4. In FY 1 3 SP had sales 
of £24.3m (201 2: £21 .7m) and gross profit of £19.8m (201 2: £18.3m). 
Cardioxane contributed £0.6m to both sales and GP , the balance 
was associated with Foscavir .
Foscavir
Foscavir continues to demonstrate volume growth. This has been 
driven by our strategy to develop a second indication for the drug 
for use by bone marrow transplant patients and to expand into new 
markets. We have been granted this new indication in Japan and 
some European markets which have helped to increase patient 
exposure and have ensured pricing is competitive across all markets. 
FY13 saw direct in-market sales of Foscavir of circa 270,000 units. 
In most cases like for like comparisons for prior year are misleading, 
as the largest market, the US, changed from unlicensed supply to 
a licensed distribution market. Prior year also included only five months 
of Japanese sales and many markets were transitioned from Astra Zeneca 
control to Clinigen over the twelve months. However , excluding the US 
unit sales, on a like for like basis, sales showed a 3.9% increase H2 on 
H1 , which is in line with trends in stem cell transplantation. The two 
largest markets for Foscavir , the US and Japan, accounted for 50% 
of units supplied and the top ten markets accounted for 90% of units 
supplied in FY13, with the top five accounting for 75%.
In our view, the big opportunities for Foscavir growth have now been 
realized, however , Clinigen will still pursue further ongoing opportunities 
and the strategy to exploit specific areas of growth potential has been 
developed. Clinigen continues to secure and protect the supply for 
Foscavir and will bring a second active ingredient manufacturer 
online in FY1 4. 
29% to £20.4m
Underlying pre-tax profit increased by 
£11.3m
Cash increased from £5.2m to  Clinigen Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
12
Review of the year
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Operational overview continued
Strategy and scalability for the future
T o support our growth, the facilities in Burton have been increased 
and this project will complete by the end of Q2 FY1 4. The business 
has also recently made organizational changes to support its growth 
and ensure operational scalability. A new operational management 
structure will support synergies within business development to 
better exploit new opportunities. 
During FY 1 3 a strategic review of the operational businesses was carried 
out which was endorsed by the Board and sets our expectations for the 
next five years. The strategy supports our ambition for Clinigen CTS 
and Clinigen GAP to become the market leader in their fields, through 
enhancing their global capabilities and service offerings. In Clinigen SP 
we are aiming to add another five to seven products over the next 
three to five years; products which we believe can be revitalized back 
to growth.
FY1 4 will also see the roll-out of Clinigen’s new enterprise resource 
planning (“ERP”) software. This project is expected to complete in 
time for FY15 implementation. 
It is the Board’ s ambition to achieve continued organic and acquisitional 
growth in the Group’s global businesses and to deliver continued 
growth in our earnings profile. The Group has maintained strong 
growth levels through a highly focused approach in closing objectives 
through our identified key performance indicators (“KPIs”). These KPIs 
are designed to achieve the key financial, management, product and 
services goals as well as monitoring capital projects. The KPIs are 
reviewed monthly by both the Operational and main Boards.
The key element that drives Clinigen’s operating businesses forward 
is its people and I am very proud of all of our staff. This year once 
again, their expertise, energy and enthusiasm have turned our plans 
into reality and this set of results is testament to their hard work. 
My sincere thanks go to all our employees across the Group.
Financial review
Revenue 
Clinigen continues to show strong growth recording revenues 
of £1 22.6m, an increase of 49% (201 2: £82. 1m). This is the result 
of strong organic growth in all three operating businesses.
Profit
T otal gross profit increased by 21 % to £35. 1 m (201 2: £29.0m) as result 
of growth in all three operating businesses. The newly acquired 
(25 March 2013) Cardioxane contributed £0.6m to revenue and GP .
Administration costs of £20.5m (201 2: £1 8.5m) included non-underlying 
costs of £5.9m (201 2: £5.5m), being IPO related costs of £4.0m 
(201 2: £nil), non-recurring share based payment charges of £1 .9m 
(201 2: £4.6m), and ongoing share based payment charges of £0.4m 
(201 2: £nil), offset by a provision release of £0.4m (201 2: provision 
made of £0.9m). Excluding non-underlying items administration costs 
of £1 4.6m (201 2: £13.0m) grew by 13%, reflecting the strong organic 
growth of the operating businesses.
Underlying EBITDA increased by 30% to £22.4m (201 2: £1 7 .3m) 
and underlying pre-tax profit increased by 29% to £20.4m 
(201 2: £15.8m). Reported pre-tax profit of £1 4.5m is 42% up 
on the prior year (201 2: £10.3m).
Taxation
The tax charge for the year of £3.2m is based on prevailing UK and US 
effective tax rates. This charge is calculated as £5.2m on underlying 
profits offset by a credit of £2.0m in respect of non-underlying costs. 
Allowable UK corporation tax (“CT”) deductions arose from the exercise, 
pre-IPO, of two equity-settled share based remuneration schemes. 
This generates a combination of CT repayable and a reduction in 
CT payable in current and future years of £10m. 
Delivered on strategy and 
commitments at IPO by 
adding two new products 
to portfolio. www.clinigengroup.com Annual report and accounts 2013
Corporate governance Financial statements Review of the year
13
Earnings 
Underlying earnings per share, excluding share based payments, one 
off non-underlying costs arising as a result of the IPO and based on 
the number of shares in issue post IPO, is 1 8.5 pence (201 2: 1 3.4 pence). 
The reported earnings per share is 15. 1 pence (201 2: 13.2 pence). 
Dividend
The Directors have adopted a progressive dividend policy in line with 
their stated intentions at the time of the IPO. The Directors also indicated 
at IPO that the Company’s interim and final dividend payments were 
expected to be split approximately one-third to two-thirds respectively . 
In view of the strong trading which continued throughout this year the 
Directors are pleased to propose a final dividend for this year greater 
than two-thirds, of 2.0 pence per share which when added to the interim 
dividend of 0.6 pence paid on 28 March 201 3, will make a total dividend 
for the year of 2.6 pence per share. 
The final dividend shall, subject to approval at the Company’s 
AGM on 29 October 2013, be payable on 1 November 2013 
to all shareholders on the register at 1 1 October 2013.
Cash flow
Cash generation continues to be strong with net cash from operating 
activities of £18.8m covering the cash requirement for product 
acquisition/in-licencing in the period.
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June 2013 were £1 1 .3m, up from 
£5.2m at 30 June 201 2, which combined with a net bank facility 
of £13.0m provides funding for future acquisitions. Loans from the 
pre-IPO principal shareholder (£1 .6m) were paid down in full and 
Clinigen is debt free at the period end. The working capital model 
continues to be self-funding.
The cash increase in the period of £6. 1m is generated by cash from 
operations of £19.6m, net proceeds from share issue of £8.7m, offset 
by loan repayments of £1 .6m, dividends of £0.5m, tax and interest 
payments of £1 .4m and investing activities of £18.7m.
Investor relations
We believe it is important to have open communication and be 
transparent with shareholders. T o this end we have met with 
institutional shareholders at least once during the financial year and 
will continue with this strategy going forward. However , I welcome 
feedback from shareholders on our communication style. In addition, 
the Company has introduced a Share Save Scheme to encourage 
employee participation and drive good business behaviours, to date 
70% of employees have taken part. 
P George
Chief Executive Officer
24 September 2013
38% to 18.5 pence
Underlying EPS up 
