 02  CLINIGEN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
In our second year post IPO, I am 
pleased to report on another strong 
year of growth for Clinigen Group plc 
(‘Clinigen’ or the ‘Group’), where we 
have added further products to our 
portfolio and delivered year-on-year 
profit growth.
The Group overall has performed very well; whilst top-line growth 
(£126.6m +3.3%) has been impacted by prior year activities, such 
as CTS lumpy sales and Foscavir stock fill, an improvement across 
the divisions in gross profit has combined with the impact of IPO 
costs in prior year to drive a 47% increase in profit before tax. 
Importantly, all three operating businesses have contributed to 
this growth.
We continue to make significant progress in pursuit of our strategic 
objectives, evidenced by our ability to continue to increase business 
in our services businesses, CTS delivered more clinical trial drug 
supplies for more clinical trials than prior year, up 45%, and GAP 
delivered a 54% increase in sales. We also continue to successfully 
acquire further niche hospital-only medicines that we believe we can 
revitalize. We have added two oncology support products with the 
acquisition of Savene and Ethyol, together with Cardioxane bringing 
this portfolio to three and with our two anti-infectives (Foscavir and 
Vibativ), the total portfolio to five. Clinigen’s unique ability to distribute 
medicines globally to both licensed and unlicensed territories 
continues to resonate with our customers.
As discussed last year, we have a number of strategic imperatives, 
aimed at continuing to grow by extending our global footprint as well 
as our product and customer base. I believe you will see from further 
detail in this report, that besides adding the further products I have 
already mentioned, we have gone deeper with our existing key 
customers and added significant new customers. We still have many 
opportunities for organic growth and that remains a key focus. We 
will also continue to pursue further acquisitions, products that could 
add value to our SP portfolio and companies that would strengthen 
our global presence or broaden our service offering. In addition, the 
market dynamics remain strong with the trends affecting our 
business, although presenting challenges, looking positive.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
PETER ALLEN, NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
HIGHLIGHTS
• All three operating businesses have 
contributed to a 47% increase in PBT.
• Two new products added to our SP 
portfolio bringing total to five.
• Dividend for year 3.1 pence, up 19%. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CLINIGEN GROUP PLC WWW.CLINIGENGROUP.COM  03
OVERVIEW
To support continued organic growth the Group continues to 
invest in its support infrastructure to ensure scalability of our model. 
During FY14, as well as strengthening our management and 
divisional teams, we have improved and extended our head office 
and US facilities, invested in our IT infrastructure by adding Cliniport, 
our bespoke online GAP customer support tool, and we are in the 
process of implementing a new Group-wide ERP system, which 
is expected to go-live in 2015. 
Clinigen values corporate governance highly and the Board 
believes that effective corporate governance will assist in the 
delivery of our corporate strategy, the generation of shareholder 
value and the safeguarding of shareholders’ long-term interests. 
We are committed therefore, as far as is reasonably practicable 
and appropriate to our size and stage of development, to ensure 
the Group is managed in accordance with the principles set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors have maintained a progressive dividend policy. Subject 
to approval at the AGM on 30 October 2014, the Board proposes to 
pay a final dividend of 2.1 pence per share. Together with the interim 
dividend of 1.0 pence per share paid in March, this makes a combined 
dividend for the year of 3.1 pence per share.
We would like to thank all our stakeholders – customers, suppliers, 
employees and shareholders – whose continued support has 
contributed to our success.
Peter Allen
Non-executive Chairman
23 September 2014
READ MORE ABOUT OUR YEAR 
IN THE OPERATIONAL REVIEW
SEE PAGES 14 TO 19
“Clinigen’s unique ability 
to distribute medicines 
to both licensed and 
unlicensed territories 
continues to resonate 
with our customers.”
