 08  CLINIGEN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
Clinigen has once again exceeded 
expectation, particularly with regard 
to profit. Whilst overall sales growth 
was limited by CTS, where one-off 
prior year performance impacted 
FY14, both SP and GAP in particular 
demonstrated significant growth.
However, profit growth, both at gross profit (+17.3%) and PBT 
(+46.7%) was very strong. In addition we managed to further add 
to our product portfolio, bringing our number of products to five. 
I am also pleased that we have managed to further strengthen 
our management team, which will support us in continuing 
to achieve our strategic goals.
Our strategy
Clinigen’ s ambition remains clear: to become a recognized world-leading 
specialty pharmaceutical company, with an unrivalled global distribution 
capability for licensed and unlicensed medicines. To achieve this 
aim, the strategy is to maintain overall growth by developing both 
CTS and GAP into global leadership positions and SP through the 
revitalization of the products it has acquired and via further product 
or company acquisitions.
To date, good progress has been made in all three operating 
businesses. Both CTS and GAP remain on track to be the global 
leaders; a clear global number two position for CTS by sales has 
been confirmed in our recent market review and a further 50%+ 
growth in GAP continues to take us closer to our goal. In addition 
SP now has five products in its portfolio, well on its way to the ten 
we had targeted by the end of FY18.
As part of the overall strategy, two key strategic goals will be 
prioritized in FY15; the revitalization of the new products in our 
portfolio and the strengthening of the Group’s global capabilities.
Firstly, Clinigen’s dexrazoxane assets (Cardioxane and Savene) offer 
a great example of the type of efforts Clinigen is making to revitalize 
its assets. The development of a commercial plan to take advantage 
of both the unique position we hold with the dexrazoxane portfolio 
and the support for providing wider access to Cardioxane will be 
a key focus in FY15.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
PETER GEORGE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
HIGHLIGHTS
• Two further product acquisitions, Savene 
and Ethyol, bringing the total number of 
products to five.
• Lifting of marketing authorization 
suspension achieved for Vibativ and 
product launched into EU.
• CTS margins improved to 15%.
• GAP activity up 87% with 58,000 units 
shipped to more than 75 countries. GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CLINIGEN GROUP PLC WWW.CLINIGENGROUP.COM  09
STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
Secondly, we believe that all three operating businesses will benefit 
from strengthening the Groups global footprint. Whether it is licensed 
and unlicensed product distribution or clinical trial sourcing and 
distribution greater global capabilities would be a benefit. This is 
true whether it be in developed markets like North America where 
we are developing stronger GAP partnerships and extending our 
office and warehousing capabilities or emerging markets where 
many of Clinigen’s products are in demand and where unlicensed 
supply is growing as part of patient and disease management. 
A recent independent market review, commissioned by Clinigen, 
indicates that a significant proportion of the GAP market is 
“on-demand” unlicensed supply to patients in countries where 
the requested medicine is no longer or has never been licensed. 
This on-demand, “International Pharmacy” type, supply is particularly 
prevalent in emerging markets. It is clear to the Board that Clinigen 
needs to develop its services and capabilities to serve this demand 
globally, particularly with reference to the pharmerging markets.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGY 
PRIORITIES AND OUTLOOK
SEE PAGE 10
Clinigen is the only company to have the rights to 
both indications for dexrazoxane (cardioprotection 
and extravasation) and this puts us in a unique 
position. However, Cardioxane had a number of 
restrictions placed upon its usage subsequent to 
an EMA Article 31 referral in 2011, which led to a 
significant decrease in its usage when the 2010 
contraindication for use in children and adolescents 
and to it no longer being indicated for use in adult 
patients with malignancies other than advanced 
or metastatic breast cancer as well as the dose 
ratio for dexrazoxane being halved.
We believe that a broader patient population 
would benefit from the protective and lifesaving 
properties of Cardioxane and that the evidence 
leading to these restrictions was flawed. This view 
is supported by the academic community where 
a number of global key opinion leaders have been 
active in the study of dexrazoxane use as a 
cardioprotectant in the paediatric population. 
Significant additional data has been generated in 
at least seven studies related to both safety and 
efficacy. We will highlight this data to the EMA 
during its Periodic Safety Update Report (“PSUR”) 
and have requested to meet Agence Nationale de 
Sécurité du Médicament (“ANSM”), as France is 
the reference member state for Cardioxane. This 
is just the start of efforts to lift restrictions on 
Cardioxane’s usage and therefore extending its 
benefits to the broader oncology population 
treated with anthracyclines.
