 02
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Introduction
I am pleased to present @UK’s second report to shareholders 
as an AIM listed company. 
2006 has been a challenging year for @UK, with growth 
slower than we had originally anticipated. Nevertheless it has 
still been a year of progress towards our target of becoming 
the company of choice for providing eCommerce solutions 
to the public and private sectors. With the changes we have 
made in management and strategy we are confident that we 
are moving in the right direction.
Results
@  in the year ended 31 December 2006, @UK increased 
sales by 49% to £2.2m, (2005: £1.5m);
@  sales of web and eCommerce services increased by 
152% to £0.9m in the year ended 31 December 2006 
(2005: £0.4m);
@  loss before taxation (before exceptional items and share 
based payments) in 2006 was £3.2m compared to £0.9m 
in the prior year, which reflects the increased cost base 
in preparation for the roll-out of our products and services;
@  after taking account of exceptional costs and share based 
payments the loss before tax for 2006 was £3.5m 
(2005: £1.7m); and
@  at 31 December 2006 the Group had net funds of £4.0m 
available to take the Group through to profitability.
Strategic review
In November 2006 we announced that we had carried out 
a review of the business of the Group, its operating structure 
and cost base. The review highlighted the need to: 
@ undertake a management restructuring;
@ appoint a new Chief Executive Officer;
@  implement a new cost reduction programme focusing 
on headcount and sales and marketing expenditure; and
@ refocus our sales efforts to maximise growth.
The overall impact of the review has been to streamline our 
management, whilst reducing costs on an annualised basis 
by £1.2m.
Strategy
The Board’s strategy is to take advantage of the growth 
opportunities in @UK’s market and to achieve profitability 
in the medium term. We remain focused on the provision 
of our buy-side eCommerce solutions, and using this as 
a channel to sell our supply-side solutions, but:
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   3 20/04/2007   09:13:28 03
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
@  we have simplified our approach to implementation to 
make it easier for existing and new buy-side customers 
to achieve the benefits our solutions bring;
@  we are adopting more flexible sales techniques such 
as offering to sell on a risk/reward model and targeting 
areas of spend within organisations where the return 
on investment is particularly quick;
@  we are commencing a targeted sales campaign in the 
private sector for our buy-side solutions; and
@  these changes on the buy-side will have a positive 
impact on supplier adoption.
Management
As a result of the strategic review, Chris Hoar and 
Dudley George, the Commercial and Marketing Directors, 
left the Board. I would like to take the opportunity to thank 
Chris Hoar and Dudley George for their contribution to the 
development of the Group. 
Lyn Duncan moved to the role of Business Development 
Director in order to focus wholly on maximising her strong 
relationships within the Public Sector and in particular 
the NHS, and we also started a search for a new 
Chief Executive Officer. 
Subsequently, I was pleased to announce in January that 
we had appointed Grant Oliver as our new Chief Executive 
Officer. The benefits of these changes are now being seen 
and it was pleasing to see some client wins recently.
People
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our employees 
for their hard work and effort during the year. 
Summary
With the management changes which have been made, the 
Group’s level of funding and good progress in implementing the 
new strategy, the Board is confident in @UK’s future.
Bernard R. Fisher
Chairman
28 March 2007
@

With the management changes which have been 
made, the Group’s level of funding and good progress 
in implementing the new strategy, the Board is confident 
in @UK’s future.
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   4 20/04/2007   09:13:28
