 02 Annual Report 2014
Overview and strategic report 
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to say we have moved on. Coats Group plc 
is a world class manufacturing business and has now  
returned to the market under its own name in the  
125th anniversary year of its initial listing on the  
London Stock Exchange. 
Further details regarding 
Coats Group plc corporate 
governance given from page 
21 of this report.
Mike Clasper
Chairman
We have moved away from the GPG 
investment company past, we now have 
one Board to lead the business and we are 
structuring our executive team to efficiently 
support the simplified corporate structure.
Within Coats, the Industrial business 
delivered good profit growth; however the 
results were impacted by Crafts, particularly 
in EMEA. Despite this Coats achieved a high 
conversion into free cash flow during the 
year. We have recently agreed the sale of 
the loss making EMEA Crafts business, 
leaving management free to focus on 
further growth opportunities in our strong 
and profitable global Industrial and 
Americas Crafts businesses.
The ongoing investigations by the UK 
Pensions Regulator mean we cannot pass 
on our success by way of returns to 
shareholders. However, we are not going to 
let the investigations stop us from creating 
further value for our shareholders and 
continuing to strengthen the business which 
underpins the Company’s obligations to its 
pension schemes.
Corporate and Board changes
On 26 February 2015 the Directors of GPG 
took the decision to rename the Company as 
Coats Group plc and establish a single, 
combined Board of Directors. This 
established Coats Group plc as the 
standalone, listed entity and signalled its 
return to the market in the 125th anniversary 
year of its first listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. It also marked the point at which 
the listed Company became a focused, 
global industrial manufacturing business and 
moved on from being an investment 
company with a diversified portfolio of 
assets.
The name change from Guinness Peat Group 
plc to Coats Group plc became effective on 
26 February 2015.
Rob Campbell, Scott Malcolm, (Chair of  
the Remuneration and Nominations 
Committee), and Waldemar Szlezak all 
stepped down from the Board, effective 
2 March 2015.
Rob, as former GPG Chairman, has brought 
continuity, experience and insight over this 
period of change. The Board would like to 
thank all retiring directors for their 
leadership during the successfully 
completed asset realisation programme, 
and for their support for the corporate 
changes.
Directors of the Coats plc Board were 
appointed to the Coats Group plc Board, 
effective Monday 2 March 2015. David 
Gosnell, who was recently appointed to the 
Coats plc Board, and Alan Rosling both 
became Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, while Paul Forman, Coats Group 
Chief Executive, Richard Howes, Chief 
Financial Officer, and Rajiv Sharma, Global 
CEO Industrial became Executive Directors. 
They join Mike Allen, Ruth Anderson,  
Sir Ron Brierley, Blake Nixon and me on the 
Coats Group plc Board. In line with best 
practice, it is the intention that from 2016 
onwards Directors of Coats Group plc will 
stand for re-election on an annual basis, 
and the Board will continue to assess its 
composition with respect to its size and mix 
to reflect the needs of a global 
manufacturing business with FTSE 250 
aspirations.
With the departure of Scott Malcolm, and 
in line with best practice, the Board has 
decided to separate the Remuneration and 
Nominations Committee. The Coats  
Group plc Remuneration Committee  
will be chaired by David Gosnell and its 
Nominations Committee will be chaired by 
me. Further information on Board 
committees is available in the corporate 
governance section of this report. 03 Annual Report 2014
Overview and strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Coats financial information
Further details regarding 
Coats’ performance in 2014 
given on page 8 in this report
Capital management and share schemes
In addition to the corporate changes, the 
Board is focused on having in place a 
suitable capital structure to support the 
business and its growth strategy. To that 
end Coats has successfully refinanced its 
main debt facility which features an 
extended maturity and a lower margin. The 
facility is backed by a group of international 
banks that reflects Coats’ global footprint 
(see Coats financial review on pages 16 to 
17 for more details).
Coats Group plc will look to grant share-
based long term incentives for senior 
executives, consistent with our FTSE 250 
aspirations. To support this programme we 
plan to fund an employee benefit trust to 
buy shares in the open market over time, 
and we are considering wider share 
ownership across the Group. The employee 
benefit trust is able to hold shares at any 
one time of up to 5% of the market 
capitalisation without seeking shareholder 
approval.
Although the Company is moving forward 
with the change in name, corporate 
structure and capital structure, in one 
aspect the Company is unable to move on. 
While the pension schemes are under 
investigation by the UK Pensions Regulator, 
we cannot pass on the success of the strong 
and cash generative Coats business by way 
of returns to shareholders. It is entirely 
appropriate that the Company fulfils all 
obligations to its pension schemes, and the 
Board and management continue to work 
to find a route forward balancing the 
interests of all stakeholders.
Reported consolidated financial results
Movements in shareholders’ funds
shareholders’ funds decreased from £444 
million (NZ$888 million) at 31 December 
2013 to £241 million (NZ$482 million) at  
31 December 2014. The major change was 
actuarial losses in respect of retirement 
benefit schemes (£201 million), which was 
only partially offset by Coats’ attributable 
profit (£13 million).
The net asset backing per share has, as a 
result, decreased from 31.5p (NZ63.0c) to 
17.2p (NZ34.4c).
Income statement
The Group generated revenues, all 
attributable to Coats, of £1,023 million 
(NZ$2,046 million) in 2014 (2013: £1,089 
million, NZ$2,178 million). Gross profit of 
£375 million (NZ$750 million) was relatively 
flat year-on-year (2013: £380 million, 
NZ$760 million). Operating profit increased 
from £41 million (NZ$82 million) to 
£64 million (NZ$128 million) in 2014, 
primarily driven by a significant reduction in 
Parent Group administrative expenses. Net 
attributable profit was £9 million compared 
to £23 million in 2013, which included a 
£46 million profit from discontinued 
operations. Earnings per share from 
continuing operations was 0.66p 
(2013: loss of 1.58p).
Overview of GPG’s key net assets
Coats
Net profit attributable to GPG was  
£13 million (US$21 million) compared with 
£19 million (US$29 million) in 2013. The 
decline was primarily driven by an  
£11 million (US$19 million) impairment 
charge on property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets relating to the EMEA 
Crafts business. Excluding this and other 
exceptional items, net attributable profit to 
GPG was £27 million (US$45 million), up  
£3 million from 2013 (£24 million,  
US$37 million). Coats generated a free cash 
inflow of £44 million (US$72 million) which 
contributed to a reduction in Coats net debt 
to £169 million (US$263 million) as of  
31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 
£199 million (US$329 million)). Free cash 
flow is the foundation for investing in future 
growth and will provide the capacity to pay 
dividends in the future.
The agreed EMEA Crafts sale followed a 
comprehensive review of the business, 
including its strategic fit within Coats, and 
the formulation of a turnaround plan. The 
sale, expected to complete in Q2 2015, 
better positions Coats for future profitable 
growth and allows it to focus attention on 
its high performing global Industrial and 
strong Americas Crafts businesses. Further 
details of the transaction are included on 
page 17.
Cash at bank
At 31 December 2014 the Parent Group had 
cash of £375 million (NZ$750 million)  
(31 December 2013: £383 million (NZ$766 
million)). The decrease in cash during the 
year was primarily as a result of operating 
expenses and costs related to pensions 
investigations, which were partially offset by 
foreign exchange gains.
Pensions
The deficits in the Coats UK Pension Plan 
(‘Coats Plan’) and the Brunel and Staveley 
schemes, on an IAS19 financial reporting 
basis have increased from the position at  
31 December 2013. This is due to an 
increase in liabilities largely driven by a 
115 basis point (bps) decrease in the 
discount rate, which more than offset a 
35bps decrease in the inflation rate, the 
adoption of revised assumption setting 
methodologies and the Coats Plan trustee 
formally adopting improved cash 
commutation factors for members.
Coats has appointed John Lovell, previously 
Head of Pensions at J Sainsbury plc, as 
Group Pensions Director responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s pension schemes. 
This newly created position will be 
responsible for further developing the 
Group pension strategy and working closely 
with the trustees of the various schemes to 
ensure its delivery.
The UK Pensions Regulator’s 
investigations
The Board continues to actively engage with 
the UK Pensions Regulator’s (‘tPR’) 
investigations and will continue to explore 
all options to try to resolve these matters 
balancing the interests of all stakeholders.
Coats Plan
As previously announced on 19 December 
2014 the Company, GPG (UK) Holdings plc 
and Coats plc received a Warning Notice 
(‘WN’) from tPR in relation to the Coats 
Plan. 04 Annual Report 2014
Overview and strategic report 
Chairman’s statement continued
The WN explains that tPR’s case team is of 
the view that each of the three sponsoring 
employers of the Coats Plan was 
insufficiently resourced at the relevant date 
(31 December 2012), which is a prerequisite 
for it to use its statutory powers. Further, 
the case team considers it is reasonable for 
the Determinations Panel (‘DP’) of tPR to 
issue a Financial Support Direction (‘FSD’) in 
relation to the Coats Plan. This could result 
in the Company, GPG (UK) Holdings plc 
and/or Coats plc being required to put in 
place financial support for the Coats Plan.
Having reviewed the WN with its legal and 
other advisers, the Company will continue 
to robustly oppose tPR’s view on 
insufficiency of resources. The Company 
believes that the Coats Plan already benefits 
from strong support provided by the Coats 
business in accordance with the statutory 
scheme specific funding regime, and also 
does not accept that under the regulations 
it is proper for tPR to seek to use its 
statutory powers in relation to the Coats 
Plan. The Board intends to litigate this 
matter as far as necessary unless it can be 
resolved satisfactorily via negotiation.
Brunel and Staveley schemes
As previously disclosed, in December 2013 
GPG received WNs from tPR in respect of 
Brunel and Staveley. GPG submitted written 
representations on the WNs at the end of 
September 2014 within the deadlines set by 
tPR, but has yet to receive responses from 
tPR.
Timing and settlement discussions
Hearings before the DP for the Brunel and 
Staveley schemes would have been likely in 
2015. However, in the Coats WN, tPR has 
indicated that it believes that it would be 
appropriate for the DP to hear the Brunel 
and Staveley cases at the same time as the 
Coats case rather than considering one or 
two of the three schemes in isolation. 
Therefore, the timetable is likely to be driven 
by the status of the Coats Plan FSD 
proceedings and, as a result, any hearing 
before the DP for all three schemes is 
unlikely before the second half of 2016 at 
the earliest. The delay that will be caused by 
linking all three schemes is frustrating in the 
view of the Board.
In early 2015 a proposal, which reflected 
the Board’s view of the strong legal position 
in respect of the Coats Plan, was put to tPR 
and the various trustees to settle matters 
across the three schemes in order to resolve 
all investigations. This proposal was not 
accepted by tPR or the various scheme 
trustees. As noted above, the Board will 
litigate these matters as far as necessary, 
unless they can be resolved satisfactorily via 
negotiation.
Triennial funding valuations
The current level of deficit reduction 
payments for the Coats Plan of £14 million 
per annum that commenced in November 
2013 for a period of approximately 14 years 
will be subject to review at the next triennial 
valuation, which commences from  
1 April 2015.
The triennial valuation processes for both 
the Brunel and Staveley schemes are 
on-going and have been delayed by tPR’s 
investigations. The Company is engaged in 
discussions with the trustees of both 
schemes with a view to reaching agreement 
on the valuations in due course.
Parent group overheads
Total operating costs, net of foreign 
exchange gains/losses, were £7 million 
compared with £43 million in 2013. Foreign 
exchange gains in 2014 of £11 million (2013: 
£2 million loss) were partly driven by the 
strengthening US Dollar against the British 
Pound.
The Company continues to carefully 
manage its costs while focussing on 
achieving a successful completion of tPR’s 
investigations, taking external advice as 
necessary in order to protect the Company’s 
interests. Costs incurred in relation to tPR’s 
investigations during 2014 were covered by 
an £8 million provision made at the end of 
2013 for anticipated costs during 2014. A 
further £8 million provision has been made 
at the end of 2014 to respond to the 
Warning Notice received from tPR in 
relation to the Coats Plan and for 
progressing the process around the Staveley 
and Brunel schemes, for the Company and 
the trustees of these schemes.
As reported at the 2014 half year results, 
GPG completed the downsizing and 
outsourcing of support services on 30 June 
2014 with the closure of its London office. 
This followed a significant reduction in staff 
numbers during 2013. As a consequence 
staff costs significantly reduced year-on-
year to £2 million (2013: £13 million). Other 
Company expenses, which included staff 
costs as well as GPG Board expenses, legal, 
audit and other non-pensions related 
professional fees, declined from £21 million 
to £6 million in 2014. Other pensions 
related expenses, including pension scheme 
administrative costs under IAS19, totalled 
£4 million.
Excluding pension investigations costs, the 
Company maintains its guidance of annual 
overheads of approximately £3-4 million for 
pension related expenses. Given the 
corporate structure changes announced, 
the Company expects other corporate 
expenses to reduce to around £3 million  
per annum (previous guidance was  
£3-4 million).
Other items
Shareholdings
Shares of Coats Group plc retain the same 
nominal value as those of Guinness Peat 
Group plc, and existing share certificates 
remain valid. Further information for 
shareholders can be found at 
www.coats.com/investors
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 
Thursday 21 May 2015 in London. Further 
details of the location and time will be 
provided in the Notice of Meeting which 
will be sent to shareholders in April 2015.
Mike Clasper
Chairman
Coats Group plc
18 March 2015
Note: All NZ$ comparatives to £ amounts are for illustrative 
purposes only, based on the NZ$:GBP exchange rate on  
31 December 2014, NZ$2.00: £1.00.
The relative period end positions are set out below:
IAS19 deficit
31 December 
2014
£m 
31 December 
2013
£m 
Coats UK Pension Plan 214 78 
Other Coats net employee benefit obligations 49 44 
Total Coats net employee obligations 263 122 
Brunel 54 28 
Staveley 58 28 
Total £ million 375 178 
Total NZ$ million 750 356  05 Annual Report 2014
Overview and strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Coats financial information
Overview and strategic report 
GPG
Strategy and business model
In February 2011 the GPG Board announced 
a plan for an orderly value realisation of 
the Group’s investment portfolio with the 
proceeds being used for capital 
management initiatives. At the time it was 
indicated that this may result in an 
investment in GPG becoming a direct 
investment in Coats.
The asset realisation programme was 
successfully completed during 2013 and 
generated a cumulative £698 million from  
1 January 2011. Between 2011 and 2013 
more than £160 million of proceeds were 
returned to shareholders via capital returns, 
cash dividends and share buybacks. 
However completion of the capital return 
process has been delayed by tPR’s 
investigations. The Chairman’s statement 
contains a full update on this process and 
the costs incurred to date in dealing with 
these matters.
During the year under review, and prior to 
renaming Guinness Peat Group plc as Coats 
Group plc, the Group was managed with 
two clear operational levels:
— GPG plc Board had overall responsibility 
to shareholders for stewardship of the 
Company; including central treasury, 
tPR’s investigations and capital 
management and structuring; and
— Coats plc Board had responsibility for 
setting the detailed strategy of the 
Coats business and monitoring 
performance against that strategy. 
Detail relating to Coats’ strategy, 
business model and performance in 
2014 can be found from page 8 
onwards.
In February 2015 the Directors took the 
decision to rename Guinness Peat Group plc 
as Coats Group plc and established a single, 
combined Board of Directors. The 
responsibilities of the Coats Group plc 
Board can be found on pages 26 to 27.
The Group is primarily comprised of the 
Coats business, as well as a Parent Group 
cash balance of £375 million (at 
31 December 2014) and two legacy UK 
defined benefit pension schemes (Brunel 
and Staveley).
Although the Company has moved forward 
with the change in name, corporate 
structure and capital structure, in one 
aspect the Company is unable to move on. 
While the pension schemes are under 
investigation by tPR, it cannot pass on the 
success of the strong and cash generative 
Coats business by way of returns to 
shareholders. It is entirely appropriate that 
the Group fulfils all obligations to its 
pension schemes, and the Board and 
management continue to work to find a 
route forward balancing the interests of all 
stakeholders.
Operational performance
The financial performance of the Group as a 
whole is dealt with by the Chairman in his 
statement. Further details of Coats’ 
operational performance can be found from 
pages 10 to 17.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
A KPI for GPG was its reported net asset 
value. The reported net asset value per 
share in 2014 decreased from 31.5p to 
17.2p. A significant factor in the 
determination of net assets per share is the 
IAS 19 employee benefit obligations. These 
are based on market conditions at each 
period end including the yield on corporate 
bonds.
The Board previously monitored the value 
realisation programme against the value of 
the portfolio at the time the strategy was 
announced. As noted above, the 
programme was successfully completed 
during 2013 and generated a cumulative 
£698 million from 1 January 2011. This 
compares to a market value on 1 January 
2011 of the investment portfolio of 
£677 million. Given the programme was 
completed in 2013 the Board decided that 
this KPI was no longer relevant for the year 
under review.
As stated above a key element of the value 
realisation strategy is returning capital to 
shareholders. Given the events during 2013 
and 2014 relating to tPR’s investigations, 
this indicator does not fully convey the 
developments of GPG during the year under 
review.
The primary financial measures against 
which Coats was monitored in the year 
under review were turnover, pre-exceptional 
operating profit, pre-exceptional 
attributable profit and adjusted free cash 
flow. During 2014, Coats reported a decline 
in turnover of 1% (up 1% on a constant 
currency basis), pre-exceptional operating 
profit declined by 1% (flat on a constant 
currency basis), pre-exceptional attributable 
profit grew 21% to $45 million and 
adjusted free cash flow increased 30% to 
$70 million.
With the change in name to Coats Group 
plc, and the transition from an investment 
company with a diversified portfolio of 
assets to a focused, global manufacturing 
business, the KPIs for the Company will be 
reviewed by the Board during the year and 
presented in the 2015 Annual Report.
Linking performance and reward
The Board through the Remuneration and 
Nominations Committee has developed a 
Remuneration Policy which provides an 
appropriate framework of incentives for the 
Executive Directors of the Company. This 
Policy is set out from page 32.
Prospects
See Chairman’s statement on pages 2 to 4 
and Chief Executive’s review on pages 10 
and 11.
Corporate Responsibility (CR)
The CR focus for the year under review lay 
within Coats. Further information regarding 
Coats’ CR approach, including how it links 
to business strategy, can be found on page 
13 and includes our approach to 
environmental matters, employees and 
social, community and human rights issues. 
Detail is provided on greenhouse gas 
emissions on page 25.
Diversity
In line with the requirements of the Code 
and of the ASX Governance Principles, it is 
the Company’s practice to treat all 
appointments equally and on merit, 
regardless of ethnicity or gender. The Board 
does not have a formal policy on diversity. 
That said, the Company has been 
developing a policy which is intended to be 
approved by the Board in the coming year. 
Coats already employs a diverse workforce 
and has a stated ambition to increase the 
number of women at more senior levels. 
See page 12 for more information in this 
area. 06 Annual Report 2014
Overview and strategic report 
GPG continued
Details of the make-up of the Group’s employees by gender as at 31 December 2014 are set out in the following table.
Male Female Total Female %
Board of Directors 7 1 8 13%
Senior Management (excluding Board Directors) 292 71 363 20%
All employees (excluding onsite contract workers) 11,939 8,314 20,253 41%
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are employees with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling 
the activities of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the company, and persons who were directors of subsidiaries of the 
Company.
Within the Coats business, 41% of its global workforce and 20% of its senior management excluding Board Directors were female as of  
31 December 2014.
As of 31 December 2014 there were 20,253 employees within the Group. Coats carries out an annual Engagement survey amongst its 
employees and has a policy of responding to the feedback this generates.
Principal risks
It is the responsibility of the Board and its various committees to identify and understand the key risks faced by the business and to 
ensure mitigating action is taken to control them. Those risks are:
Risk Nature of risk Action/mitigation
Employee defined benefit 
obligations – accounting 
impact and regular funding
The Group has a number of employee 
defined benefit arrangements in place, the 
most significant being:
> three UK pension schemes: Coats, Brunel 
and Staveley; and
> the Coats North America plan.
The UK schemes can impact the Group 
on various levels. Given their size, and 
particularly that of the Coats Pension Plan, 
these schemes can have a material impact 
on the Group’s reported results. Under IAS19 
the Consolidated Income Statement includes 
an administrative charge and a finance cost 
relating to these schemes and variations in 
these charges can give rise to fluctuations in 
reported earnings. In addition, changes in the 
IAS19 accounting surpluses and deficits in 
the schemes impact the level of shareholders’ 
funds.
When funding deficits arise this can have a 
cash flow impact. The net accounting and 
funding positions of these arrangements are 
particularly sensitive to real discount rates 
and the investment performance of any 
segregated assets.
Managing the funding position of the three UK pension 
schemes is the primary responsibility of their respective 
trustees. The strategy followed by each trustee targets the 
long term funding position of its scheme. Each has used 
corporate bonds to fund short term liabilities. Equities and 
other return-seeking assets are held for the longer term. 
These provide a natural hedge respectively for short term 
obligations and long term inflation risk. Coats has in place 
a short term inflation hedging programme. In addition, the 
trustees have implemented formal de-risking strategies with 
thresholds for switching return-seeking assets into bonds.
The 2012 funding valuation for the Coats UK Pension Plan 
was completed during 2013 and a scheme deficit of £215 
million was agreed. As of November 2013 a 14 year recovery 
plan commenced and the rate of contributions increased 
from that date from £7 million per annum to  
£14 million per annum. In addition Coats plc agreed to 
provide the scheme with a parent company guarantee.
The Brunel scheme is in the process of completing its 2013 
triennial valuation. There was no deficit in 2010 and, hence, 
there is currently no recovery plan. However, the Board 
expects a deficit and a recovery plan to result from the 
current exercise.
The Staveley scheme last had a triennial valuation as at  
5 April 2011. The 2011 valuation resulted in a one-off 
payment of £5 million being made to the scheme in July 2012 
and an eight-year recovery plan at an annualised rate of 
£1.3 million.
The triennial valuation processes for both the Brunel and 
Staveley schemes are on-going and have been delayed by 
tPR’s investigations. The Company is engaged in discussions 
with the trustees of both schemes with a view to reaching 
agreement on the valuations in due course.
The Coats North America plan has a funding surplus and 
the investment strategy followed includes a matching asset 
pool which should substantially reduce the risk of a funding 
shortfall arising in the future. 07 Annual Report 2014
Overview and strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Coats financial information
Risk Nature of risk Action/mitigation
Employee defined benefit 
obligations – regulatory 
investigation
As previously reported and described further 
in the Chairman’s statement on pages 3 to 
4, tPR is investigating the Group’s three UK 
defined benefit pension schemes and has 
issued Warning Notices in relation to all three 
schemes.
The Board continues to actively engage with tPR’s 
investigations and will continue to explore all options to 
try to resolve these matters balancing the interests of all 
stakeholders.
Treasury concentration risk The completion of the asset realisation 
programme combined with the deferral of the 
return of capital to shareholders during tPR’s 
investigations has resulted in a significant 
proportion of shareholder value being 
represented by cash.
The Board is cognisant of the potential for this to give rise 
to concentration risk. The Board is provided on a monthly 
basis with a report of cash balances by bank, jurisdiction and 
currency. In addition it regularly reviews these risks at Board 
meetings to ensure appropriate mitigating action is being 
taken.
Foreign currency exposure Coats business’ activities are primarily 
denominated in USD, although it has major 
asset bases in other currencies, including the 
Indian Rupee and the Brazilian Real.
Coats takes action to protect its anticipated 
transactional currency exposure but does not 
hedge its assets and liabilities.
Cash generated through the asset realisation 
programme is primarily held in GBP, USD and 
NZD. The GBP balance is held to cover known 
liabilities whereas the NZD and USD balances 
represent the currently surplus funds.
Given the investigation being carried out by 
tPR, the Board faces the potential of some 
as yet unquantified obligations to provide 
further financial support to the Group’s UK 
pension schemes. The size and nature of 
these obligations will only be known once 
the process with the respective scheme 
trustees and tPR has been completed. Any 
hearing before the Determination Panel of 
tPR for all three schemes is unlikely before the 
second half of 2016 at the earliest. If all rights 
of appeal are pursued, this process would 
extend beyond this period.
This in turn means the Board is currently not 
able to determine with certainty the quantum 
of future returns, if any, to shareholders.
The Board regularly reviews its currency exposures and has 
taken steps to ensure transparent reporting to shareholders 
of the positions held.
Human resources Shareholder value is heavily dependent on key 
individuals within the Group.
The Board has recognised the risk to delivery of the 
Company’s strategy from key staff leaving during the process. 
It regularly reviews the appropriateness of its incentive and 
reward arrangements and has established retention and/or 
incentive plans to address this risk.
Coats Given the simplification of the Company’s 
business model, the Coats business now 
represents the major portion of the Group’s 
business risk.
Coats faces a wide range of commercial and operational 
risks. Coats manages these risks through various structures, 
including its Internal Audit Function and Operational Risk 
Management Committee, comprising a broad mix of 
managers across the business, chaired by the Group Chief 
Executive.
The Head of Internal Audit attends meetings of and reports 
to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee. The key risk areas 
identified and managed through this process are described in 
more detail on pages 18–20.
