 Introduction
2002 has been another successful year for Cobham,
driven by excellent performances across almost every
business unit. The breadth of product portfolio and the
wide service offering has again stood the group in good
stead. The group operates predominantly in aerospace
and defence, where recent strength on the defence side
has mitigated the widely publicised difficult civil market
conditions.
Cobham has increased its systems capabilities to key
customers and strategic partnerships are being pursued
relentlessly to improve productivity, reduce costs and
ultimately grow the business. We have built leading niche
positions organically, through the development of state-
of-the-art technology and by acquisition especially in the
areas of fuel systems, oxygen systems, avionics and
marine safety and survival systems. Additionally, the
group is a leader in avionics across a number of product
areas and in our flight operations we offer some of the
most sophisticated training and special mission flight
operations available anywhere in the world.
Strategy
Cobham’s strategy has evolved into a clearly focused plan
that has been tested and proven. It is this focus that has
delivered close to 20% per annum compound underlying
pre-tax earnings growth over the past 20 years. This
strategy is challenged and reviewed on a regular basis,
but the key tenets have remained. They are:
•
to strengthen our focus and retain a balanced portfolio
of companies which are leaders in their particular field;
•
to seize opportunities as they arise as the aerospace
and defence industry consolidates;
•
to continue to generate cash flow from our existing
businesses to support our plans for further organic
and acquisitive growth;
•
to create an environment which encourages, rewards
and motivates staff at all levels within the organisation.
8
Chief Executive’s Review
“Cobham has increased its
systems capabilities to key
customers and strategic
partnerships are being pursued
relentlessly to improve
productivity, reduce costs and
ultimately grow the business.”
Allan Cook COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 9
Chelton acquired the Blackburn, UK based land platforms
communications business (LPC) from BAE SYSTEMS. LPC
is a world leader in the supply of digital intra-vehicle
communications systems and has, since 1995, been a
prime supplier of such systems to the US Army with the
brand name ROVIS
®
. Under a teaming arrangement with
Northrop-Grumman, over 50% of LPC’s business is in the
USA, with a further 15% of revenue coming from US
Foreign Military Sales (FMS). These systems are an
integral part of the command, control, communication,
computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
(“C4ISR”) capability of armed forces around the world. To
date, approximately 17 ,000 systems have been fielded on
more than 26 different types of platform to customers in
13 countries. LPC is a natural extension of Chelton’s
current airborne intercommunications systems business
(Northern Airborne Technology and TEAM) into the
military land vehicle market, in which Chelton’s radio and
antenna companies are also increasingly active.
Chelton Radomes acquired Saab’s Applied Composites
Division based in Linköping and Ljungby, Sweden. The
division supplies the main nose radome for the Gripen
fighter and its acquisition firmly establishes Chelton as
Europe’s leading radome supplier for military aircraft
such as Eurofighter Typhoon, Tornado, Hawk, EH101 and
Nimrod. The new business is a key centre of knowledge for
Flight Refuelling’s aerial refuelling
equipment plays a key role in extending
the Eurofighter Typhoon’s mission
capability.
Cobham has a highly devolved management structure
which ensures quick and decisive decision making. This
allows the management to focus on the strategic
direction of the group which has delivered excellent
results and created significant shareholder value.
Cobham will continue to pursue both organic and
acquisition related growth.
Markets
In the markets in which we operate there has been and
continues to be an element of uncertainty. The defence
market has shown signs of continued growth, particularly
in the USA, but the commercial aerospace business is still
fragile with only the low cost airlines showing any sign of
growth. Cobham is, however , in a strong position with a
large, long term order book. We have a highly trained,
motivated work force, excellent niche products and
services, and are leaders in many of the markets in which
we operate. 
Acquisitions
During the year , the group made a number of acquisitions
for a cash cost of £32.8m, with deferred and contingent
consideration estimated at a further £3.2m. In December
2002, agreement was reached to acquire Dräger
Aerospace GmbH for m28.4m in cash, of which m3m is
deferred for three years. 10
radar cross section reduction and stealth techniques,
including frequency selective surfaces design and semi-
conducting stealth coating technology. 
In December, the group reached agreement with
Drägerwerk AG to acquire its subsidiary company, Dräger
Aerospace, subject to regulatory and other approvals.
Dräger Aerospace is located in Lübeck, Germany and
produces a range of oxygen components and systems for
civil and military aircraft. Its technology covers gaseous,
liquid and mechanical oxygen systems and includes an 
on board generated oxygen capability. In recent years
Dräger Aerospace has been working with Carleton
Technologies, and the business alliance between the two
companies has been successful in winning contracts to
supply complete oxygen systems for the Airbus A340-
500/600, the Boeing Business Jet fleet at Lufthansa
Technik and, latterly, for the Airbus A380. The
combination of these two businesses gives the group a
complete systems capability in aircraft oxygen which it
intends to exploit further in the commercial and military
aircraft markets. 
In the early part of 2003, there were a further two
acquisitions within the Avionics segment. Orion
Electronics was acquired for a cash consideration of
C$14m and the assets of Xybion Sensor Positioning
Systems for US$1.4m in cash. Orion is a leader in the
design and manufacture of GPS tracking equipment sold
primarily to US Federal Government agencies. The
company employs 62 people and is located in Windsor ,
Nova Scotia. Orion is located close to Chelton’s existing
subsidiary Seimac and has product synergies with both
Seimac and Chelton’s UK security products company,
Micromill. The group sees considerable potential for
further growth by these three companies working
together in the Defence and Homeland Security market
places. Xybion designs and manufactures positioning
systems for use with optical and radio frequency antenna
sensors and is located in Clearwater , Florida. It will be
integrated into Chelton’s Atlantic Microwave business.
Future Prospects
Despite the uncertainties in the civil aerospace market,
the group, with its focus on the future, has exciting
prospects. We are a global company, our products and
people have put us on the world stage and we intend to
remain there.
With our broad portfolio of businesses, our position on
many long term programmes and the ability of our people
to keep Cobham at the cutting edge of technology,
Cobham is well set for the future. 
Allan Cook Chief Executive
20 March 2003
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Chelton Radomes perform computer controlled microwave
correction to aircraft nose radomes to ensure extremely
high levels of performance.
