 Introduction
2003 proved to be a very successful year for Cobham.
Signiﬁcant progress was made in the implementation of our
long-term strategic plan whilst delivering excellent ﬁnancial
results. New orders worth £925m were achieved and the order
book at the end of 2003 stood at £1.2bn.
Organisation
Cobham’s business has been organised into three specific
product and service groups:
•
Aerospace Systems
•
Avionics
•
Flight Operations & Services.
Aerospace Systems, under Andy Stevens, is a new group
dedicated to the design and manufacture of fluid and air
distribution, life support, countermeasures, air refuelling and
aviation auxiliary mission equipment.
Geoff Cooper and Alex Hannam continue in their roles of group
managing director, Avionics and Flight Operations & Services
respectively.
I am conﬁdent that the executive team now in place will ensure
Cobham’s continued success in the years to come.
Strategic direction
The key tenets of Cobham strategy are:
•
to sustain earnings growth in our existing businesses and to
support further organic and acquisitive growth;
•
to strengthen our focus and retain a balanced portfolio of
companies which are leaders in their particular ﬁeld;
•
to seize opportunities as they arise with the aerospace and
defence industry consolidation; and
•
to create an environment which encourages, rewards and
motivates staff at all levels within the organisation.
The group has, throughout 2003, worked steadily towards
meeting these aims. Not least has been the achievement of
sustained earnings growth in a dynamic and challenging
business environment.
8
Chief Executive’s Review
The Cobham group enters 2004 with a
strong order book of £1.2bn, a streamlined
organisation, a balanced portfolio of
companies and its activities aligned with
priority military expenditure conﬁdent that
the business will continue its growth proﬁle
through 2004
Allan Cook
“
” COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 9
well placed for any increase in the world demand, although it is
difﬁcult to predict when this will occur.
Prospects
The Cobham group enters 2004 with a strong order book of
£1.2bn, a streamlined organisation, a balanced portfolio of
companies and its activities aligned with priority military
expenditure, confident that the business will continue its
growth proﬁle through 2004.
In January 2004, the Ministry of Defence announced that the
AirTanker consortium, in which the group has a 25%
shareholding, had been selected as the bidder which offers “the
best prospect of securing a value for money PFI service” for the
future strategic tanker aircraft (FSTA) – a 27 year programme to
supply air refuelling capability to the Royal Air Force. It is
expected that a contract will be awarded in 2005, allowing
substantial beneﬁts to the group companies engaged in the
supply and support of equipment and through the group’s
shareholding in AirTanker.
The underlying strength of Cobham is based on the key
positions which have been established in existing and future
work platforms and programmes. This in turn relies heavily on
market intelligence, excellent product technology and services
and the enthusiastic support of all employees. I am delighted
with the progress achieved in 2003 and remain conﬁdent of
sustained success in the future.
Allan Cook Chief Executive
18 March 2004
Components for Euroﬁghter Typhoon
supplied by Cobham have a ship set
value of some £800,000.
The successful acquisition of thirteen companies during this
period, coupled with organic growth, has ensured a strong
increase in revenue.
Work is being undertaken to ensure improvements in the
group’s operational performance as part of our continuous
improvement programme. The divestment of Westwind to 
GSI Lumonics in December 2003 has further balanced our
product and service portfolio and improved group underlying
proﬁtability.
The group continues to invest in new products, processes,
facilities and people development to create a positive,
challenging and productive working environment for its
employees.
The group’s success in 2003 gives us conﬁdence in our strategic
direction.
Markets
The aerospace and defence market is polarised between the
military and commercial areas. Cobham has experienced
growth in its military business, particularly in the USA. However,
growth in European defence business is subject to budgetary
pressure and there is a widening gap in research and
development spending between other NATO countries and 
the USA.
In the civil aviation market the volume of air trafﬁc has now
stabilised following the downturn after 11 September 2001, the
conﬂict in Iraq and the SARS virus epidemic. Airbus has, for the
ﬁrst time, outpaced Boeing in the supply of civil airliners.
Cobham remains a major supplier to both companies and is 
