 6   COBHAM PLC
INTRODUCTION
We continue to operate in a demanding and ever
changing business environment. 2004 was
challenging but successful for the Group. Since
2000 we have increased our revenues by £415m
and underlying earnings per share have grown by
31p. With businesses extending over five
continents, Cobham has become a truly global
company.
MARKET IN CONTEXT
The aerospace and defence markets have
continued to develop and grow during 2004. In
the military market the key priorities now include
increased interoperability, rapid reaction, precision
strike and information superiority. These priorities
have driven technology insertion into systems
and sub-systems for network enabling capability
and for the development of unmanned aerial
vehicles.
More traditional but equally important
equipment such as air refuelling (AR), antennas
and life support systems have also shown
considerable growth.
Intelligence is key to defeating terrorism and
predicting threats. The USA and NATO continue
to invest in the development of capabilities for
collecting, producing, ﬁltering and communicating
intelligence between space, air, land and sea
operations.
In the commercial market, airline traffic has
returned to levels seen in 2000, and 2005 is
expected to see a further increase. Our two
major commercial customers, Airbus and Boeing,
are forecasting higher levels of output for 2005 
with further potential increases in 2006. Three
new commercial aircraft are on the horizon -
Airbus A350, Boeing B787 and, potentially, the
Bombardier C Series.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Cobham performed robustly in 2004 with record
order intake and strong revenue growth. The fall
in the dollar has slowed proﬁt growth, but this
has been partially offset by our currency hedging
programme.
It has been a year of transition and investment in
the Aerospace Systems Group. Improved
performances in air refuelling and auxiliary
equipment and life support sectors have been
overshadowed by poor operational performances
in countermeasures and ﬂuid and air distribution
sectors. The loss of a major bid at our US
countermeasures business in Milan, Tennessee
•
Cobham performed robustly in 
2004 with record order intake 
and strong revenue growth.
•
In the military market the Group’s
products and services address key
priorities which now include
increased interoperability, rapid
reaction, precision strike and
information superiority.
Chief Executive’s Review
ALLAN COOK and continued technical challenges on the A380 fuel pump system were
the major reasons for this reduction in operational performance.
Chelton had another good year of organic growth. US businesses
performed strongly driven by increased opportunities in the defence
market. Margins reduced slightly due to the dilution effect of acquisitions.
Order intake improved in antennas, avionics, microwave and law
enforcement and national security (LENS) product lines. Requirements for
increased capability on many platforms will beneﬁt Chelton. Network
enabled capability opportunities are increasing – caused by the
requirement for faster, more secure data transfer.
Flight Operations & Services had an excellent year, exceeding all its
ﬁnancial targets and winning important new business in the UK and
Australia. Proﬁt margins have continued to improve and the Group is well
placed to seek further growth opportunities.
The order book is £1.3bn. In the last twelve months a number of signiﬁcant
long-term contracts have been won or successfully renewed. In February
2005 the UK Ministry of Defence announced that the AirTanker
consortium, in which the Group is a shareholder, had been awarded
Preferred Bidder status on the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft (FSTA)
programme. This is a signiﬁcant milestone in this 27 year programme to
provide the Royal Air Force with a new tanker/transport service based on
the Airbus A330-200 aircraft. Our bid cost has been £2.3m (2003 - £1.2m).
The cost incurred on this Cobham wide programme is not attributable to
any particular division, and is excluded from the segmental proﬁts shown
in the Business Review.
PROSPECTS
After more than a year of negotiations between the European
manufacturers of the Euroﬁghter Typhoon and the governments of the four
partner nations, UK, Germany, Italy and Spain, agreement was ﬁnally
reached on 14 December 2004 for the second production tranche of 236
combat aircraft. The announcement brought a guarantee of production
continuity through to 2013. This is a major boost for Cobham as tranche 2
production commences.
In the ﬁeld of avionics, combat aircraft require ever higher data acquisition
rates to support improved capabilities. This will require further upgrades of
new and existing aircraft in both Europe and the USA. Chelton is well
placed to support this requirement as part of its network centric capability
programme.
The Group now has a strong worldwide presence in LENS including
offshore and onshore surveillance and advanced multi-mode
communication systems. This area of activity is expected to expand
signiﬁcantly in the years ahead.
In addition, the Group’s products and services address the current military
priorities of countries with the largest defence budgets. In recent years the
Group has greatly increased its industrial presence in the USA and has
continued to invest in research and development and improved facilities 
in its US businesses. The Group is actively involved in bilateral
government/industry discussions to facilitate the secure interchange of
technologies between the USA and the UK.
Group companies are pursuing further opportunities worldwide and the
outlook for further success is encouraging.
Allan Cook Chief Executive
10 March 2005
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004   7
Light armoured tactical vehicles and ABRAMS main battle tanks currently deployed
in Iraq with Chelton’s intercom systems installed (AN/VIC 3 and LV2).
