 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 3
Chief Executive’s Review
Allan Cook, Chief Executive
Introduction
2005 has been a successful year and the start of a
transformational process.We have delivered a strong
financial performance, successfully integrated our
largest acquisition to date and completed a strategic
review which is a defining point for Cobham.
Implementation of this strategy is proceeding well
with good progress in reshaping the portfolio with
value already being derived from disposals, and with
improvements in operating performance.
Market in Context
The UK Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS) and the
Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) in the USA
have provided good visibility of priorities.
US military budgets continue to rise with renewed
emphasis on intelligence, communication and
the efficient and safe deployment of assets,
areas where Cobham is a market leader for land,
sea and airborne platforms.
Cobham will continue to benefit from the 
growth in aircraft and passenger numbers in the
commercial and civil markets, for both fixed and
rotary wing aircraft. Customers increasingly place
a premium on products that enhance the safety,
efficiency and utility of platforms, which align
with the Group’s technology focus.
Business Overview
2005 was a successful year for us with double-
digit growth in revenue, trading profit and
underlying earnings per share and an improvement
in operating cash conversion to 99%.Across the
Group we were successful in winning some major
contracts that will underpin our future growth.
New order intake increased by 24%.The order
book at the end of March 2006 was more than
£1.8bn including the new Coastwatch contract.
Chelton had a very strong year. As well as the
acquisition of REMEC Defense & Space Inc.
(REMEC), the performance was underpinned by
double-digit organic growth in revenue and
trading profit.This performance has been driven
by a relentless focus on technology investment
in new products that meet very demanding
customer requirements.
The Aerospace Systems Group reported relatively
flat revenue, with sales impacted by the disposal
of Fluid and Air in November and the acquisition
of H Koch and Sons. Organic growth in trading
profit for the Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission
Equipment Division was particularly strong and
this, together with other operational performance
improvements, more than offset transaction
exchange headwind.
Margins in Flight Operations and Services have
normalised following the exceptional result in
2004. Revenue was slightly up and trading profit
reduced reflecting higher bid costs, fuel price
increases for outsourced flying for the Australian
resource industry, and lower profitability on the
renewed Qantas contract.
Prospects
Our proven technologies and those under
development position us well to take advantage 
of the evolution and growth of the aerospace
and defence market, where we serve a wide range
of civil and military customers.
Looking ahead, we will secure additional benefits
from portfolio reshaping and the operating
performance improvement programme, and
investment in R&D.The Group continues to seek
acquisitions and to dispose of some smaller
companies, both of which will enhance
shareholder value.
People
Finally, let me extend my thanks to our people.
We achieved an immense amount in 2005 
driven by the passion, energy and commitment 
of our people. It is a privilege to lead this world-
class organisation.
Allan Cook,
Chief Executive
7 April 2006 
Cobham’s strategy
Defence spending in the USA
continues to be robust
Good visibility of US and UK
defence priorities
Civil aerospace market remains
buoyant
Cobham’s technology focus
aligns with customer demands
Excellent organic growth
prospects and order book
Focus 
on leading
technology
positions
Build
capabilities
Drive
operating
performance
Enhanced shareholder value 
through profitable growth
