 5	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
1
2
3
4
5
Chief	 Executive’s	 review
2007	 was	 an	 excellent	 year.	 There	 was	 good	 progress	 integrating	 existing	 and	 newly	 acquired	 businesses,	 and	 further	 investment	 in	 technology	 which	 aims	 to	 deliver	 leading	 edge	 products	 	 whose	 future	 success	 can	 drive	 revenue	 growth.
Introduction
This	 section	 in	 conjunction	 with	 the	 Directors’	 report	 addresses	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 statutory	 business	 review,	 to	 provide	 a	 fair	 review	 of	 the	 business	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 an	 analysis	 	 of	 development	 and	 performance	 during	 2007	 and	 the	 position	 at	 the	 year	 end.	 Overall business performance
2007	 was	 an	 excellent	 year,	 with	 increased	 levels	 of	 new	 business	 across	 the	 Group	 and	 growth	 in	 the	 order	 book.	 This	 provides	 visibility	 and	 increases	 confidence	 for	 the	 future.
The	 order	 book	 for	 the	 Technology	 Divisions	 at	 £0.8bn,	 and	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 at	 £1.0bn,	 increased	 strongly,	 with	 the	 order	 book	 for	 Aviation	 Services	 now	 extending	 to	 2027.	 The	 proportion	 of	 revenue	 generated	 	 by	 the	 Group	 from	 the	 USA	 increased	 	 to	 47%	 and	 remains	 a	 primary	 driver	 	 for	 future	 growth	 prospects.	 Cobham	 	 is	 increasing	 its	 focus	 on	 a	 number	 of	 faster	 growth	 countries	 and	 regions,	 including	 the	 Middle	 East	 and	 India.
Operational	 improvements	 are	 leading	 	 to	 increased	 levels	 of	 profitability	 	 which	 have	 enabled	 further	 investment	 	 in	 technology,	 facilities	 and	 talent	 management.	 For	 the	 first	 time,	 recruitment	 activities	 in	 the	 USA	 and	 	 UK	 for	 graduates	 were	 coordinated	 Group	 wide.
Progress	 has	 also	 been	 made	 with	 respect	 to	 corporate	 social	 responsibility.	 Several	 targets	 set	 for	 2010	 have	 already	 been	 achieved.	 Key contracts
Orders	 and	 sales	 for	 High	 Mobility	 Multipurpose	 Wheeled	 Vehicle	 	 Improved	 Restraint	 Systems	 have	 	 been	 exceptionally	 strong,	 with	 an	 installed	 base	 of	 100,000	 vehicles.	 Follow-on	 orders	 were	 received	 for	 	 the	 F/A-22	 Radar,	 Electronic	 Warfare	 (EW)	 and	 Communication,	 Navigation	 and	 Identification	 systems,	 as	 well	 as	 the	 Advanced	 Anti-Radiation	 Guided	 Missile	 (AARGM),	 F-18	 Radar	 &	 EW	 systems,	 and	 the	 F-16	 E/F.	 Follow	 on	 orders	 were	 also	 received	 for	 On	 Board	 Inert	 Gas	 Generating	 System	 for	 the	 	 C-17	 aircraft	 with	 new	 contracts	 for	 	 the	 CH-53K	 helicopter	 and	 VH-71	 Presidential	 helicopter.	 The	 Group’s	 High	 Gain	 SATCOM	 	 antenna,	 for	 use	 in	 cockpit	 communication	 and	 passenger	 internet	 applications,	 	 has	 been	 selected	 by	 Rockwell	 Collins	 and	 Boeing	 for	 the	 787,	 747-8	 and	 	 777	 programmes.	 Cobham	 was	 selected	 by	 L-3	 Communications	 to	 supply	 the	 US	 Navy	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 ‘Cobham	 cockpit’	 suite	 of	 avionics	 equipment	 for	 the	 TH-57	 training	 helicopter	 retrofit	 programme.
In	 the	 first	 quarter	 an	 agreement	 worth	 up	 to	 AUS$300m	 was	 secured	 to	 operate	 Qantaslink’s	 entire	 operational	 fleet	 of	 11	 B717	 aircraft	 for	 five	 years.
Major programmes
First	 deliveries	 have	 been	 made	 to	 EADS-CASA	 for	 the	 Royal	 Australian	 	 Air	 Force	 A330	 Multi-Role	 Tanker	 and	 Transport	 (MRTT)	 aircraft	 marking	 	 the	 delivery	 of	 Cobham’s	 1,000th	 air	 refuelling	 system.	 The	 same	 90X	 pod	 type,	 developed	 under	 Company	 funded	 research	 and	 development,	 is	 offered	 	 for	 the	 UK	 FSTA	 and	 the	 US	 Northrop	 Grumman	 KC-45A	 solutions.	 The	 telescopic	 refuelling	 probe	 for	 the	 	 V-22	 Osprey	 tilt-rotor	 aircraft	 entered	 	 full	 rate	 production	 with	 a	 multi-year	 	 buy	 contract	 for	 deliveries	 to	 2017.	 Full	 rate	 production	 commenced	 on	 the	 BRU-61/A	 Small	 Diameter	 Bomb	 weapons	 carriage	 system,	 with	 the	 award	 of	 the	 Lot	 4	 contract	 from	 Boeing.	 Full	 rate	 Highlights
	 	2007	 was	 an	 excellent	 year
	 	Recent	 acquisitions	 strengthen	 position	 in	 higher	 growth	 markets
	 	Strong	 balance	 sheet	 	 for	 further	 strategic	 opportunities
	 	Strategy	 implementation	 	 is	 on	 track
Group revenues
	 2007		 2006
	 USA	 47%		 46%	
2	 Mainland	Europe	 17% 	 16%	
3	 Australia	 12%		 12%	
4	 UK	 13%		 15%	
5 Rest	of	World	 11%		 11%	 6	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
on	 pages	 18	 to	 22.	 PV	 expenditure	 (Company	 funded	 R&D)	 increased	 to	 £55.0m	 representing	 some	 6.3%	 of	 the	 Technology	 Divisions’	 revenue.	 This	 is	 steadily	 approaching	 the	 medium-term	 target	 of	 7%.	 The	 total	 number	 of	 reportable	 	 injuries	 reduced	 from	 73	 to	 54.	 Fifty	 percent	 of	 the	 injuries	 related	 to	 three	 specific	 categories	 and	 training	 and	 risk	 assessment	 are	 focused	 on	 these	 areas.	 Further	 detail	 is	 on	 page	 23.
Cobham	 continues	 to	 support	 customer	 supplier	 management	 initiatives,	 including	 the	 UK	 MoD’s	 key	 supplier	 assessment	 programme,	 achieving	 a	 	 top	 three	 position	 for	 the	 first	 time.	 	 A	 single	 approach	 to	 measuring	 customer	 satisfaction	 across	 the	 Group	 has	 	 not	 been	 identified,	 due	 to	 the	 large	 variation	 in	 contract	 types	 across	 the	 business	 and	 customer	 approaches	 to	 measurement.	 However,	 performance	 	 is	 addressed	 at	 business	 reviews.	 Voluntary	 staff	 turnover	 in	 the	 Group	 during	 2007,	 which	 is	 defined	 as	 turnover	 excluding	 retirements	 and	 redundancies,	 was	 10%.	 More	 than	 fifty	 percent	 of	 	 this	 movement	 is	 accounted	 for	 by	 	 two	 business	 units	 –	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 –	 Australia	 and	 Cobham	 Defence	 Electronics	 Systems	 –	 San	 Diego.	 	 In	 Australia,	 exceptional	 demand	 for	 pilots	 in	 the	 Asia	 Pacific	 region	 caused	 above	 normal	 turnover	 and	 in	 San	 Diego,	 there	 	 is	 a	 shortage	 of	 highly	 skilled	 defence	 electronics	 engineers.	 This	 is	 a	 world	 wide	 issue	 for	 the	 industry.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Defence spending
More	 than	 fifty	 percent	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 is	 defence	 related,	 selling	 products	 and	 services	 directly	 and	 indirectly	 primarily	 to	 governments.	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review	 continued
production	 also	 commenced	 on	 systems	 for	 Tranche	 2	 of	 the	 Eurofighter	 Typhoon	 aircraft	 following	 the	 award	 of	 a	 contract	 from	 BAE	 Systems	 for	 Saudi	 Arabia.	 Cobham	 now	 has	 well	 established	 positions	 on	 the	 F/A-22	 tactical	 fighter	 with	 over	 150	 microwave	 modules	 per	 aircraft	 in	 production	 and	 almost	 100	 modules	 	 per	 aircraft	 already	 in	 development	 for	 the	 F-35	 Joint	 Strike	 Fighter.	 Cobham’s	 businesses	 in	 France	 capitalised	 on	 excellent	 opportunities	 	 for	 the	 sale	 of	 avionics	 and	 precision	 engineered	 components	 into	 Airbus,	 Eurocopter	 and	 other	 OEMs.	 Key Performance Indicators 
The	 Key	 Performance	 Indicators	 (KPIs)	 below	 are	 used	 to	 monitor	 progress	 	 in	 implementing	 the	 Group’s	 strategic	 objectives.	 The	 first	 three	 measures	 	 are	 addressed	 fully	 in	 the	 Finance	 Review	 Key performance indicators
Results Strategic	 objectives
Performance	 indicator Definition
2007 
actual
2006	 actual Target 1 2 3 4 5 6
Technology 
division organic 
growth
Organic	 revenue	 growth	 represents	 the	 growth	 of	 technology	 division	 companies	 for	 the	 period	 they	 are	 within	 the	 Group’s	 control,	 translated	 at	 constant	 exchange	 rate	 13.2% 5.8%
High	 single	 digit
Underlying EPS 
growth
Underlying	 profit	 after	 tax	 divided	 by	 the	 average	 number	 of	 shares	 in	 issue	 (at	 constant	 translation	 exchange	 rates) 15.8% 10.2%
High	 single	 digit
Operating cash 
conversion
Operating	 cash	 flow	 after	 capex	 and	 R&D	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 trading	 profit,	 excluding	 profit	 from	 joint	 ventures	 81.1% 84.3% >	 80%
PV investment Company	 funded	 investment	 in	 R&D	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 the	 five	 technology	 division	 revenues 6.3% 6.0%
7%	 mid	 term
Staff safety The	 total	 number	 of	 reportable	 injuries	 and	 other	 occurrences	 per	 100,000	 employees 548 720 <	 800
1.	 	Be	 a	 leading	 subsystems	 supplier	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 	 range	 of	 distinctive	 technologies
2.	 Be 	 in	 the	 top	 three	 in	 each	 of	 our	 chosen	 markets
3.	 	Grow 	 faster	 organically	 than	 the	 markets	 in	 which
	 we 	 operate
4.	 Materially 	 enhance	 growth	 through	 strategic	 acquisitions
5.	 Develop 	 a	 global	 market	 presence	 with	 a	 unified	 brand	 	 and 	 identity
6.	 Have 	 an	 efficient	 organisation	 with	 a	 high	 performance	 	 culture 	 and	 motivated	 people 7	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Defence	 spending	 depends	 on	 a	 complex	 mix	 of	 political	 considerations,	 budgetary	 constraints	 and	 the	 ability	 	 of	 the	 armed	 forces	 to	 meet	 specific	 threats	 and	 perform	 certain	 missions.	 Defence	 spending	 may	 fluctuate	 from	 year	 to	 year	 as	 a	 consequence.
Government contracts
The	 governments	 of	 the	 UK	 and	 USA	 are	 the	 Group’s	 largest	 end	 customers.	 Any	 significant	 disruption	 or	 deterioration	 in	 the	 relationship	 with	 these	 governments	 and	 a	 corresponding	 reduction	 in	 government	 contracts	 would	 reduce	 	 the	 Group’s	 revenues.	 Cobham	 has	 placed	 additional	 emphasis	 on	 key	 account	 management	 as	 part	 of	 its	 divisional	 consolidation.	 Market access
Many	 of	 the	 products	 the	 Group	 designs	 and	 manufactures	 for	 military	 or	 dual	 use	 are	 considered	 to	 be	 of	 national	 strategic	 interest	 and	 are	 subject	 to	 licensing,	 export	 controls	 and	 other	 restrictions.	 Changes	 could	 have	 a	 material	 adverse	 effect	 on	 the	 Group.	 Formal	 systems	 and	 policies	 are	 in	 place	 to	 ensure	 adherence	 to	 regulatory	 requirements	 and	 to	 identify	 any	 restrictions	 that	 could	 adversely	 impact	 the	 Group.
Fixed price contracts
The	 Group	 has	 reduced	 its	 exposure	 to	 fixed	 priced	 design	 and	 development	 contracts	 which,	 in	 general,	 carry	 	 higher	 risk	 than	 fixed	 price	 production	 activities.	 To	 help	 mitigate	 contract-
related	 risks	 and	 uncertainties,	 the	 Group’s	 Lifecycle	 Management	 process	 is	 being	 progressively	 applied	 to	 bids	 and	 contracts	 across	 the	 Group.
Currency exchange rates
The	 global	 nature	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 means	 it	 is	 exposed	 to	 volatility	 in	 currency	 exchange	 rates.	 It	 	 is	 Cobham’s	 policy	 to	 hold	 a	 significant	 proportion	 of	 its	 borrowings	 in	 foreign	 currency,	 principally	 US	 dollars,	 as	 a	 natural	 hedge	 against	 US	 dollar	 and	 other	 currency	 denominated	 assets	 and	 earnings	 from	 overseas	 subsidiaries.	 The	 Group	 has	 a	 policy	 of	 managing	 	 12	 months	 of	 potential	 transactional	 exposure	 on	 a	 rolling	 three	 month	 basis,	 together	 with	 exposures	 for	 firm	 long-
term	 contracts.
Acquisitions 
Cobham	 actively	 seeks	 strategic	 acquisitions,	 which	 may	 involve	 risks	 that	 might	 have	 a	 material	 impact	 on	 	 the	 Group.	 These	 risks	 are	 mitigated	 	 by	 extensive	 due	 diligence	 and,	 	 where	 practicable,	 by	 representations,	 warranties	 and	 indemnities	 by	 the	 vendors	 and	 a	 rigorous	 approval	 process.
The markets we operate in
The	 Aerospace	 and	 Defence	 markets	 continue	 to	 exhibit	 strong	 growth	 	 and	 with	 this	 growth,	 demand	 for	 the	 Group’s	 products	 and	 services	 has	 	 never	 been	 higher.	 The	 US	 defence	 market	 is	 strong	 	 and	 their	 process	 for	 procurement	 	 is	 well	 documented,	 which	 provides	 good	 visibility.	 The	 general	 consensus	 	 is	 that	 the	 US	 defence	 market	 can	 continue	 to	 grow;	 with	 2008	 likely	 	 to	 be	 a	 record	 year	 with	 a	 budget	 of	 	 over	 $700bn.
In	 commercial	 aerospace,	 which	 covers	 civil,	 regional	 jets	 and	 general	 aviation,	 order	 backlogs	 are	 at	 an	 all	 time	 high.	 Airlines	 are	 still	 forecasting	 more	 orders	 and	 air	 traffic	 miles	 are	 still	 increasing.
The	 faster	 growth	 markets,	 such	 	 as	 India,	 the	 Middle	 East	 and	 South	 Korea	 provide	 exciting	 opportunities	 for	 	 organic	 growth.	 The	 UK	 defence	 market	 is	 less	 robust	 with	 continued	 pressure	 on	 an	 already	 weak	 defence	 budget.	 This	 is	 unlikely	 to	 improve	 in	 the	 near	 	 or	 mid	 term.	 Cobham	 has	 less	 than	 5%	 of	 its	 product	 revenues	 with	 the	 UK	 defence	 market.
Outlook and future prospects
Cobham	 has	 had	 a	 year	 of	 accelerated	 double	 digit	 organic	 revenue	 growth,	 double	 digit	 improvement	 in	 underlying	 earnings	 and	 strong	 cash	 generation.	 	 It	 is	 well	 positioned	 to	 benefit	 from	 the	 investment	 it	 has	 made	 in	 technology	 capabilities	 and	 talent.	 Cobham	 intends	 to	 continue	 to	 focus	 on	 revenue	 and	 earnings	 growth	 through	 increased	 investment	 in	 PV,	 focus	 on	 sales	 and	 marketing	 and	 the	 development	 of	 employees.	 The	 Group	 is	 determined	 	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 the	 exciting	 opportunities	 presented	 by	 its	 new	 consolidated	 divisional	 organisation	 	 and,	 as	 a	 result	 of	 these	 changes,	 aspires	 to	 outperform	 current	 organic	 growth	 expectations.	 Cobham’s	 business	 efficiency	 programme,	 to	 identify	 integration	 and	 other	 cost	 savings,	 will	 continue	 and	 will	 provide	 funds	 for	 reinvestment	 into	 PV	 and	 	 other	 growth	 enablers.	 The	 Group	 has	 also	 made	 sound	 progress	 in	 the	 execution	 of	 its	 acquisition	 strategy	 since	 the	 start	 of	 2007,	 agreeing	 to	 buy	 five	 high	 quality	 businesses	 for	 approximately	 US$750m	 in	 total.	 Cobham	 retains	 considerable	 financing	 capacity	 and	 remains	 confident	 that	 it	 can	 complete	 further	 acquisitions	 from	 its	 active	 pipeline.	 However,	 	 it	 will	 only	 continue	 to	 pursue	 its	 acquisition	 strategy	 where	 this	 creates	 value	 for	 shareholders.
Given	 the	 strength	 of	 Cobham’s	 order	 book	 and	 the	 healthy	 state	 of	 the	 Group’s	 markets,	 the	 Board	 is	 confident	 of	 achieving	 its	 growth	 targets	 in	 2008.
