 Chief Executive’s review
Overview of the year
We have delivered earnings growth in challenging markets. Good revenue growth in certain 
Strategic Business Units was masked by order slippages on significant defence and security 
programmes and some continuing softness in certain commercial markets. We have made 
encouraging progress on our operational improvement programme, Excellence in Delivery, and 
achieved cost savings which have contributed to 5% earnings growth from flat Group revenue.
The Group order book had increased at the year end to £2.5bn (2009: £2.4bn) with the increase 
attributable to the Technology Divisions. In all three Technology Divisions there has been 
improved order intake, with an aggregate 7% increase in orders received at constant translation 
exchange rates.
The Group has been selected on a number of important new multi-year programmes and platforms 
and has also won further work on existing platforms, which will result in incremental orders being 
placed over many years. These include the CH-53K helicopter, the Aegis surveillance and fire control 
radar system, the F-35 fighter aircraft and the US Missile Defence Agency Support Services 
(MiDAESS) umbrella contract. In addition, Cobham has continued to win positions in faster growing 
geographies, with the Chinese C919 commercial aircraft, the Indian Air Force Hawk advanced jet 
trainer, the indigenous Korean Utility Helicopter and significant programmes in the Middle East.
Despite good underlying progress in many of their markets, the overall growth in both Defence 
Systems and Avionics and Surveillance was impacted by delays in certain significant US defence 
and security awards, with continued softness in some of Avionics and Surveillance’s commercial 
markets. Group revenue was up 1% in the year with the Mission Systems Division delivering strong 
organic growth, driven by revenue from next generation air refuelling pods. The Aviation Services 
Division delivered strong organic growth largely from its Australian operations.
The Group’s trading margin increased 0.4% points to 18.3% driven by the Technology Divisions, 
where the margin increased 0.5% points to 19.0%. The improved margin was driven by cost 
efficiencies from Excellence in Delivery, efficiencies from facilities previously integrated during 
2009 and 2010 and ongoing procurement savings, but was partially offset by weaker trading 
volumes in some businesses. A few PV (private venture or company funded research and 
development – R&D) programmes were temporarily slowed where customer launches and 
demand from products were down in some subdued markets.
Strategy update
The Group’s strategy is to build and maintain leading market positions in selected high growth, high 
technology markets. Cobham’s chosen markets overlap significantly with the priorities set out in the 
US Government’s Quadrennial Defence Review and with the UK Government’s Strategic Defence 
and Security Review, both of which were published in 2010. These documents attribute particular 
importance to C4ISR capabilities, where Cobham has built good positions as part of its strategy.
The Group’s strategy will be underpinned by delivery of three strategic objectives; technology 
investment, operational excellence and portfolio optimisation.
Technology investment
Investment in technology is pivotal to developing and bringing to market products that are 
in high demand and at the leading edge of technology. During 2010 important and long term 
opportunities have been in development or have been brought to market which will generate 
revenue for the Group over a sustained period:
•  Fifth generation air refuelling pods have now been certified, along with the Airbus Military A330 
Multi Role Transport Tanker, for the Royal Australian Air Force. These pods are likely to be in 
service for the next 40 to 50 years and will generate recurring revenue for the Group. In early 
2011, Cobham’s air refuelling systems were also selected on the important new KC-46A tanker 
for the US Air Force;
•  Selection by Northrop Grumman to provide an aerial refuelling system, integration and expertise 
to support the autonomous air refuelling of the KQ-X Global Hawk programme to 2012;
•  Successful demonstration to the US Army of a 100 user radio system for the Wireless Network 
after Next (WNaN) programme;
Order book
£2.5bn
(2009: £2.4bn)
Andy Stevens Chief Executive Officer
Highlights
• Order intake in Technology Divisions 
up 7% at constant translation exchange 
and important awards on long term 
programmes
• Over £10m of efficiencies, including savings 
from the on track Excellence in Delivery 
programme
• Three acquisitions totalling US$1 75m 
completed in homeland security markets 
in 2010 and early 2011
We have long term 
positions in attractive 
markets with superior growth 
and we are focusing our 
technology investment and 
acquisition strategy in areas 
of customer priority. 
5 www.cobham.com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business overview
Corporate governance
Group financial statements
Other information Chief Executive’s review continued
•  Launch of the Wireless Sensor Network Node (or Nugget), a fully portable and networked 
unattended ground sensor for covert surveillance and asset protection applications; and
•  Launch of Cobham’s lightest, smallest and lowest cost SwiftBroadband solution, the unique 
SB200, for a new market of smaller aircraft. This enables satellite connectivity for data networks, 
internet, email and telephony.
Operational excellence
Cobham’s operational improvement and efficiency programme, Excellence in Delivery, involves 
rolling out a standard operating framework across 14 principal sites, integrating smaller production 
facilities, establishing standard processes in a standard Enterprise Planning Resource system and 
setting up shared service centres. Excellence in Delivery will bring a number of benefits including 
improved productivity, shortened manufacturing lead times, improved quality and reduced 
working capital. It will also simplify the business, improve focus on the customer and enhance 
internal communication and collaboration.
The locations of the principal sites, which are expected to cover 80% of manufacturing profit by 
the end of the programme, have been communicated and work is already underway to implement 
the Group’s standard operating framework in six of the sites. The Group has accelerated its 
integration plans for 2011, including the closure of three facilities, which will be integrated into 
existing sites, and the integration of a further six facilities into two new sites. The first of the 
integrations has been completed.
By the end of 2013, the Group expects benefits from Excellence in Delivery at a run-rate of  
£65m per annum, at a total cost of £131m. Progress on the programme together with other  
cost measures has delivered efficiency savings of over £10m in 2010. The Excellence in Delivery 
efficiency savings were primarily achieved through headcount reductions and facility overhead 
savings. In line with previous guidance, the Group expects to deliver further cost savings from 
Excellence in Delivery of £21m in 201 1.
Portfolio optimisation
The Group’s strategy is to acquire businesses that deliver technologies or capabilities that will  
help it build scale in its chosen markets, accelerate organic growth and reinforce the value added 
content of its products. In addition, the Group plans to exit certain businesses and product lines 
representing up to 15% of its technology revenue that have sub-scale positions or which do not 
otherwise fit the Group’s strategy. The Group has strict financial criteria and a disciplined approach 
to investments and disposals. Progress in 2010 was as follows:
•  Completion of the previously announced acquisition of RVision Inc. on 30 December 2010 for  
up to US$48m in cash; and
•  The divestment in September 2010 of Satori SAS, trading as Cobham Maintenance Repair and 
Overhaul, for €7 .9m. 
This progress has continued since the year end:
•  In January 2011, the acquisition of Telerob GmbH, a manufacturer of advanced bomb disposal 
robots based in Germany for homeland security applications, for €78m in cash and loan notes 
was completed; 
•  The acquisition of Corp Ten International was completed in February 2011 for up to US$24m in 
cash. The company develops software which allows multiple tracking devices to be managed 
within a single system; and
•  In February 2011, the divestment of the Engineering Consultancy Group for £13.5m. To date the 
Group has realised proceeds of £29m from the sale of Satori, the Engineering Consultancy 
business and the sale of part of the Wimborne, UK site.
The Group’s strategy is to finance bolt-in acquisitions from free cash flow generated after dividend 
payments and larger transactions from existing debt capacity.
Andy Stevens Chief Executive Officer, 2 March 2011
DID YOU KNOW? 
Haiti relief
Cobham donated use of its rugged 
portable satellite communications 
systems to connect emergency services 
in the aftermath of the Haiti earthquake  
in 2010. Cobham’s antenna technology  
is also part of the UK-DMC disaster 
monitoring satellite, part of a constellation 
that images natural disasters such as  
the 2008 California wildfires.
Business overview 6 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
