 Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that despite 2010 being a year of further economic and market uncertainty, 
the Company delivered good revenue growth in certain Strategic Business Units, although this 
was masked by order slippages on significant US defence and security programmes in others. 
Cobham was able to generate underlying earnings growth from flat Group revenue helped by 
early progress on its operational improvement programme that will enhance customer service. 
Corporate development
In my first year, I have visited many of the Group’s businesses and have been impressed by the 
deep market insight and dedication of Cobham’s employees. It is clear to me that the financial 
results that the Group has been delivering over many years is due to the strategy of long term, 
focused investment in technology and a culture of innovation, enabling the Company to develop 
differentiated products and services in its chosen markets. 
The next stage of the Group’s strategy roll out was announced with the interim results, including 
the launch of the Excellence in Delivery programme to improve efficiency and operational 
performance for our customers. The programme will help ensure that the business is not just 
known for technology and agility, but also has a sector-leading reputation for performance. 
The early results are encouraging.
During 2010 Cobham’s technology and its contribution to exports was acknowledged with one 
of our businesses being granted a Queen’s Awards for Enterprise in the Innovation category and 
another, a Queen’s Awards for International Trade. In the Innovation category, Cobham’s wireless 
digital audio and video link technology was recognised as a key contributor to numerous critical 
applications, including disaster relief and counter terrorism. 
In addition to generating distinctive technology internally, Cobham also strengthens its positions 
through acquisition, where this permits the Company to build scale in its markets. In 2010 and 
early 2011, three transactions were completed for a total of US$1 75m that strengthen the Group’s 
presence in the growing homeland security market. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.372p, which will be paid on 3 June, representing an 
increase of just over 10% on the prior year. The full year dividend of 6.00p is covered 3.3 times. The 
Board has also decided to return capital to shareholders through a share buy-back of up to £150m.
The Board 
I succeeded David Turner as Chairman at the 6 May 2010 Annual General Meeting (AGM), having 
been appointed to the Board on 1 February 2010 as Chairman designate. David left the Board at 
the conclusion of the AGM to take up the position of Chairman at the Commonwealth Bank of 
Australia, and we wish him well. 
On 1 December 2010, Michael Wareing joined the Board as a Non-executive director. Michael 
was formerly Chief Executive of KPMG International and prior to that Chief Executive of KPMG’s 
Europe, Middle East and Africa region. Michael’s deep business experience and financial insight 
will be a valuable addition to the Board. He will become chairman of Cobham’s Audit Committee, 
when its current chairman, Peter Hooley, retires from the Board of directors in May 2011.
Outlook
There continue to be challenges and uncertainties in some of our markets. As a consequence 
the rate of growth in our Technology Divisions remains at the level experienced during 2010. 
The business has been configured with a prudent view of top line growth for the current year 
and we have already accelerated integration plans to deliver £21m of cost savings in 2011. 
Cobham continues to have strong long-term positions in attractive markets with superior growth 
and is focusing its technology investment and acquisition strategy in areas of customer priority. 
This approach, together with customer and cost benefits from the operational improvement plan, 
gives the Board confidence that Cobham will continue to make progress over the medium term.
John Devaney Chairman, 2 March 2011
Full year dividend
6.00p +10%
(2009: 5.45p)
John Devaney Chairman
Highlights
• Underlying EPS growth of 5%
• £219m of free cash flow and year end 
net debt/EBITDA down to 0.8 times
• Recommended 10% increase in dividend 
for the year and share buy-back programme 
of up to £150m
This is my first year 
as Chairman of Cobham 
and I am pleased to report 
that despite 2010 being a 
challenging year in our markets, 
the business delivered 5% 
underlying earnings growth. 
Business overview 4 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
