 HIGHLIGHTS
 Group order intake 
increased 16% at 
constant translation 
exchange rates
 Excellence in Delivery 
programme realised 
£25m of year-on-year 
efficiency savings
 Underlying EPS 
increased by 13% at 
constant translation 
exchange rates
ORDER BOOK
£2.5bn
(2010: £2.5bn)
Overview of the year
The core businesses, which excludes 
Analytic Solutions which has now been 
divested and other smaller businesses yet 
to be divested, achieved modest organic 
revenue growth of 0.3% in the year driven 
by a good performance from Mission 
Systems and the Aviation Services 
business. Revenue from both commercial 
and rest of the world defence/security 
markets, representing 56% of core 
business revenue, grew strongly. As 
anticipated, revenue growth was 
constrained by continued uncertainty 
in the US defence/security market. 
Group order intake in the year increased 
16% at constant translation exchange 
rates with the book-to-bill ratio at 1. 10 
times. At the year end, the Group order 
book was £2.5bn (2010: £2.5bn), which 
is an increase of 7% on the prior year 
on a constant translation exchange 
rate basis and excluding the impact 
of acquisitions and divestments.
The Group received some very 
important multi-year orders during 
201 1 in all of its key markets. These 
include the initial orders for engineering 
and manufacturing development on 
the US KC-46A aerial refuelling tanker 
totalling US$73m and orders for the 
Brazilian KC-390 aerial refuelling tanker 
totalling US$72m. Other significant 
orders included a US$40m order from 
Inmarsat to be the maritime terminal 
launch partner on its Global Xpress 
broadband service, a significant 
AUD$500m extension of the Australian 
QantasLink contract and a €45m 
contract to a Cobham joint venture to 
provide helicopter air reconnaissance 
capability to the Dutch Caribbean 
Coastguard. 
Further progress has been made in 2012, 
with a further significant award on 
the KC-46 tanker programme for the 
supply of body fuel tanks, with an initial 
engineering order received and other 
significant bids submitted.
Overall, US defence/security revenue in 
the core businesses was down 7%, in a 
year when US Department of Defense 
investment outlays declined 10%. 
Encouragingly, non US defence/security 
revenue increased 5% driven by air 
refuelling and electronic subsystems 
exports following significant 
investments in PV and the development 
of customer relationships. Commercial 
revenue increased 10%, benefiting from 
increased flying activity for Australian 
resource industry customers, increased 
Boeing and Airbus production and 
revenue from the sale of SATCOM 
antennas to a range of aerospace and 
marine customers.
The Group underlying trading margin 
increased by 1.4% points to 19.7% and 
underlying EPS increased by 13% at 
constant translation exchange rates, 
driven by the Excellence in Delivery 
programme and other cost savings. 
The £150m share buy-back programme, 
completed in November, increased 
EPS by 3%. 
Strategy update 
The Group’s strategy continues to 
be underpinned by three investment 
priorities. These are a continuation 
of investment in technologies in 
selected faster growing markets, 
including prioritising investment 
where this brings more balance between 
the Group’s defence/security and 
commercial markets. Secondly, achieving 
excellence in operations; and thirdly 
focusing the Group’s portfolio of 
businesses on markets where Cobham 
has scale and differentiation. 
Technology investment
Cobham has a unique set of 
differentiated technologies with 
leading positions in all its core markets. 
It has invested to maintain and build 
on these positions, with a view to 
generating revenue over a sustained 
period. Examples of this investment 
include next generation wireless video 
links which have numerous airborne 
and ground security applications, early 
threat detection on oil and gas wells 
and broadcast applications, including 
for the 2012 Olympics. In addition, 
Cobham has developed an improved 
oxygen generation system for use in 
field hospitals and next generation 
Active Electronically Scanned Array 
radar subsystems, which provide 
significantly improved performance 
and reliability.
Cobham’s PV investment is focused 
on specific areas of customer demand, 
and this approach generates an excellent 
return on the investment made. For 
example, the Group has over several 
years invested US$14m in PV on 
its Radio and Audio Integration 
Management System, which has already 
won sole source positions on some 
key commercial aircraft programmes. 
These positions are currently estimated 
to generate Cobham some US$250m 
of revenue over the product’s life, 
which does not include potential future 
awards on other commercial and/or 
military aircraft. 
Operational excellence 
The Group is delighted with the progress 
being made on Excellence in Delivery, 
Cobham’s transformation programme, 
ANDY STEVENS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
7
Business overview
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW INNOVATION 
Cobham has been supplying tactical video links to US and other militaries for decades, for both aerial and ground unmanned vehicles for 
applications that include Counter-Improvised Explosive Device (C-IED). The technology is also used in applications ranging from TV broadcast 
of NFL games, to police helicopter surveillance for Super Bowl XLI held in Miami, Florida and the golf Ryder Cup held in Wales.
which was announced in August 2010 
and is planned to continue to the end 
of 2013. There are three components 
to this programme: the implementation 
of a Standard Operating Framework 
across a set of principal locations, the 
integration of smaller manufacturing 
facilities into these principal locations 
and the implementation of an ERP IT 
system. The programme is bringing 
a number of significant operational 
benefits including improved 
productivity, shortened manufacturing 
lead times, improved levels of quality 
and reduced working capital.
During 201 1, improvements to the 
production operations in 10 principal 
sites were progressively implemented 
with the remaining sites to be 
undertaken in 2012. The planned 
physical integrations are also starting 
to deliver efficiencies with nine site 
integrations completed. Work 
was started on the design of the new 
ERP system. In production operations, 
the benefits from the work done are 
being reflected in improved operational 
performance metrics such as on time 
delivery, first pass quality and 
productivity and production lead 
time improvements. 
The programme also achieved excellent 
financial results in 201 1 realising 
£25m of annualised year-on-year 
efficiency savings, ahead of the £21m 
savings planned. These savings were 
achieved at a cost in the year of £39m, 
well below the previously expected 
cost of £46m. Cumulative gross costs 
incurred on the programme to the end 
of the year were £62m.
Building on the considerable financial 
and operational success of the 
programme, the Group intends to 
expand the scope of Excellence in 
Delivery, including additional scope 
for supply chain improvements, with 
phasing such that significant additional 
benefits will be seen in 2013. As a result, 
the Group now estimates that the run 
rate of efficiency savings at the end of 
2013 will increase from £65m to £75m, 
at an unchanged total cost of £131m. 
In 2012, work will continue to 
consolidate and reinforce the 
production process improvements in 
the principal locations along with further 
work on engineering and supply chain 
processes. Design of the ERP system 
will be completed and four more site 
integrations will be undertaken to build 
further scale and deliver additional 
benefits. By the end of 2012, a further 
£8m of annualised, year-on-year 
efficiency savings are expected to be 
achieved, with the programme benefits 
and costs remaining in line with the 
original plan.
Portfolio optimisation
Cobham continues to have a robust 
balance sheet, good cash generation 
and a pipeline of attractive technology 
acquisitions, with focus maintained on 
existing markets, enabling it to build 
further scale and capabilities. 
In addition, the Excellence in Delivery 
programme gives Cobham an 
enhanced capability to more efficiently 
integrate acquisitions and generate 
cost synergies from them. Cobham 
remains determined only to undertake 
strategically attractive transactions 
where these satisfy its financial criteria 
and disciplined investment approach.
Consistent with its strategy, Cobham has 
invested up to US$280m on acquisitions 
before working capital adjustments in 
201 1, with the performance of these 
acquisitions in the year accretive to 
EPS and consistent with plan.
Cobham has continued to make 
good progress in its strategy to focus 
on markets where it has scale and 
differentiation. To this end and as 
previously announced, Cobham 
completed the planned divestment 
of the non-core Analytic Solutions 
business in November 201 1 for 
US$350m. Good progress is also 
being made on the divestment of 
the remaining non-core businesses,  
with Cobham MAL Limited having 
been divested in December 201 1.
Andy Stevens, Chief Executive Officer
6 March 2012
ACQUISITION 
INVESTMENT
US$280m
8
Business overview
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 1
