 Strategy
Since becoming CEO in June 2012, I have spent 
considerable time with our customers, suppliers 
and employees, with visits to many of our 
operating sites. I believe our business has many 
strong positives including innovative and 
energetic employees, a breadth of discriminating 
technologies, a global geographical presence 
giving it access to growing markets across the 
world and strong operating margins with  
excellent cash generation.
Cobham’s strategy is to leverage its innovative 
technology, know-how and understanding of 
customer needs to build and maintain leading 
positions in the second and third tiers of the 
global defence/security and commercial 
aerospace, land and marine markets. This enables 
us to generate sustainable top and bottom line 
growth, relative to the markets in which we 
operate, while consistently generating good free 
cash flow, thereby creating shareholder value.
Strategy overview and objectives
Technology and know-how are the key 
competitive differentiators for the Group, 
recognising the importance of providing 
customers with solutions that are responsive  
to their needs. The Group is focused on 
understanding and serving the needs of its  
current customer base, where it has long term 
relationships. It will also identify adjacent markets 
where its technology and know-how can be 
leveraged to meet the needs of new customers, 
securing sustainable, long term positions and 
delivering additional growth, with the Group well 
positioned to benefit from faster growing markets.
Cobham’s market positions and investment in 
innovation must be underpinned by sector leading 
customer delivery and operational performance.  
In this regard, the EiD programme is critical for  
the Group. It is the catalyst to drive a culture  
of continuous improvement and an integrated, 
streamlined business. The programme has been 
very successful, enabling Cobham to rationalise  
its footprint, generate productivity improvements 
and improve delivery. The Group previously 
announced the extension of this programme  
with further emphasis on streamlining the cost 
structure and focus on the Group’s US facing 
operations, given the expected decline in US 
Government budgets.
The Board believes the successful delivery of this 
strategy will increase the Group’s agility, enabling  
it to shift the emphasis of its portfolio over time 
given the cyclical nature of its markets, and 
provide sustainable growth in shareholder value. 
The Group is confident that the actions it is taking, 
in aggregate, should enable it to generate modest 
organic growth from 2014 and above mid-single 
digit organic revenue growth thereafter.
Technology investment
During the year total R&D investment, 
including customer funded projects was £1 55.9m 
(201 1 : £1 34.5m), including significant development 
work on aerial refuelling programmes. PV was 
£75.4m (201 1 : £75.3m) representing 5.3% (201 1 : 
4.9%) of Group revenue. As previously announced, 
we plan to increase PV investment in 201 3 to 
generate incremental organic revenue and gain 
market share. The renewed focus on customers will 
enable us to identify priority investment areas and 
optimise revenue from the PV programme. 
Operational excellence
There has been considerable focus during the  
year on the Group’s programme to re-engineer 
Highlights
 Strategic actions to enable a return to 
sustainable organic revenue growth, with 
increased investment in the business
 Considerable progress from Excellence in 
Delivery, with integration aspects extended  
to 2015
 Conservatively geared at 0.9 times net debt/
EBITDA, after the £275m net cash investment 
in acquisitions during the year
Total Excellence in Delivery savings
£100m by 2016
The Group is confident  
that the actions it is taking,  
in aggregate, should enable  
it to generate modest organic 
growth from 2014 and above 
mid-single digit organic  
revenue growth thereafter
7 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Chief Executive Officer’s review and streamline operations, EiD, which has  
reached the end of its second full year and  
made considerable progress. Alongside financial 
benefits, the programme is bringing a number  
of operational and customer benefits, including 
improved productivity, shortened manufacturing 
lead times and improved levels of quality.  
The programme has three components: the 
implementation of a Standard Operating 
Framework across a set of principal  
manufacturing sites (Principal Locations);  
the implementation of a standard Enterprise  
Resource Planning (ERP) IT system; and the 
integration of manufacturing facilities. 
Implementation of the standard production 
framework is now well underway in all Principal 
Locations, with significant operational 
improvements being seen. Work on the standard 
engineering and project management framework 
is now underway in five sites and the supply chain 
framework in six sites. 
The design phase on the ERP implementation  
was substantially completed in December 2012, 
with focus moving on to building and testing  
the system in 201 3. As planned, there were four 
integrations of manufacturing facilities in 2012.
During 2012, as a result of the accelerated 
achievement of the benefits, the programme 
exceeded the planned level of savings by £6m, 
with £14m of year-on-year efficiency savings.  
This brings the total annualised benefits to  
£48m since the programme commenced.  
EiD costs were £38m in the year.
The Group is taking further actions to make 
significant site and headcount rationalisations due 
to expected volume declines in the US defence/
security market.
The extension of the integration elements of the 
programme by two years to the end of 201 5 will 
provides additional benefits of £30m per annum 
on completion, with the majority of these savings 
being reinvested into the business. 
EiD remains on track to deliver a run-rate of £75m 
of annualised year-on-year efficiency savings  
by 201 3, albeit this declines to £70m over the 
following one to two years due to US Government 
contracting rules. Expected total costs over the life 
of the programme remain £191m, including the 
additional integration activity. 
Investment in management capabilities
T o reinforce the Group’s understanding of its 
markets and strengthen the link between customer 
needs and technology investment, a new Group 
level position has been established to address 
business development and technology. Cobham 
will also focus on further improving its programme 
management capabilities. A new Group level 
position has also been established to provide 
momentum and visibility on this key competency, 
which is critical to meeting customer expectations 
and delivering organic growth.
In addition, the delivery of Cobham’s strategy 
depends on the right skills and capabilities being  
in place. Cobham will increase its investment in 
learning and development to build the essential 
skills and capabilities to drive future growth.
Acquisition investment
Our acquisition strategy is to use the significant 
amount of cash generated after dividend 
payments and our balance sheet strength to 
reinforce our technology and market positions 
through carefully selected acquisitions. Our focus 
is to bring more balance to our defence/security 
and commercial businesses, promoting long  
term revenue growth through the cycles.
The £275m acquisition of Thrane & Thrane is a 
significant step towards this, with the June 2012 
acquisition doubling Cobham’s predominantly 
commercial SATCOM revenue. Integration has 
progressed well and the business has continued  
to perform ahead of plan.
Our focus continues to be on identifying and 
executing attractive acquisition opportunities 
within our chosen markets and adjacent areas.  
We have a strong balance sheet and the ability to 
successfully execute acquisitions, consistent with 
our disciplined financial criteria, to create value  
for our shareholders. 
Overview of the year
We have delivered a good set of results in market 
conditions that continue to be challenging.
Our order book at £2.4bn was unchanged on the 
prior year at constant translation exchange rates. 
Order intake continued to be strong in Australia, 
with significant contracts secured for fly-in fly-out 
services to the mining sector and an extension to 
the Sentinel maritime surveillance contract. In the 
UK, our joint venture company FB Heliservices 
received a significant order from the UK Ministry  
of Defence to provide helicopter flying training. 
There were also significant awards in the US  
from Boeing on the Wideband Global Satellite 
programme and from the US Navy for the ALQ-99 
Low Band T ransmitter, including for the first foreign 
military sale customer. 
Group organic revenue was broadly flat with 
growth in commercial and non US defence/
security revenue offset by US defence/security, 
mostly due to reduced revenue in land markets. 
Although the underlying trading margin decreased 
slightly to 19.0%, primarily due to anticipated 
declines in operating margins in Defence Systems 
and Aviation Services, underlying EPS increased 
2.6% to 22.63p (201 1: 22.05p), including a lower 
underlying tax rate and the full year effect of the 
201 1 share buy-back. At constant translation 
exchange rates underlying EPS increased 3.2%. 
Operating cash conversion was strong at 104% 
and, at the year end, we were conservatively 
geared at 0.9 times net debt/EBITDA, after the 
£275m net cash investment in acquisitions  
during the year.
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
6 March 201 3
Countering the menace of landmines
Cobham has been developing radar and radio 
frequency technology for many years to 
counter the menace of landmines and 
improvised explosive devices. Cobham’s 
MINEHOUND dual sensor mine detector is used 
in humanitarian mine detection and removal 
operations in Cambodia, Angola and Bosnia.
8 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
