 Corporate development
Cobham’s strategy is to leverage its innovative 
technology, know-how and understanding  
of customer needs to build and maintain leading 
positions in the second and third tiers of the 
global defence/security and commercial 
aerospace, land and marine markets.
We have made good progress in the year, 
including the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane, 
which reinforces our position in the predominantly 
commercial SATCOM market. In addition,  
we divested the emergency locator beacon 
businesses, our most significant remaining 
non-core business.
The programme to re-engineer and streamline 
operations, EiD, has received considerable focus 
and is bringing a number of operational, customer 
and financial benefits. 
Looking forward, we will continue to streamline 
our operations and we will re-invest the majority 
of the savings made into the business to develop 
further innovative technology solutions from a 
closer understanding of customer needs. We will 
increase investment in learning and development 
to build the essential skills and capabilities from 
which to drive future growth. 
The Board
Bob Murphy joined the Board as Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) on 25 June 2012. Bob brings a 
successful track record spanning more than 25 
years in the industry. He has joined us from BAE 
Systems where he was an Executive Committee 
member with global responsibility for the BAE 
Systems Inc. Product Sectors business.
Bob has taken over from Andy Stevens who took 
early retirement due to the recurrence of a long 
term, serious back injury. Andy remained on the 
Board during the CEO transition, continuing as a 
Non-executive Director to 1 August 2012. In all,  
he was a member of the Board for nine years  
and I would like to thank him for his tremendous 
contribution over this period. 
In April 2012, Warren Tucker, Cobham’s Chief 
Financial Officer, decided to stand down  
but is staying on until 1 May 201 3. We are grateful 
to Warren for his enormous contribution over  
10 years and for providing continuity during  
a time of change. Simon Nicholls, currently Group 
Finance Director at Senior plc, will join the Board 
on 1 May 201 3 and brings a successful track record 
of financial leadership in global aerospace and 
broader commercial markets.
Marcus Beresford has completed nine years  
as a Non-executive Director and is the  
Senior Independent Director. He will also  
stand down from the Board at the conclusion  
of the 201 3 AGM.
Dividend
Following the rebalancing at the interim stage, the 
Board is recommending a final dividend for 2012 
of 6.40 pence with a total dividend per share for 
2012 of 8.80 pence. This is an increase of 10%  
on the prior year, in line with the Group’s long 
standing, progressive dividend policy.
Cobham has a very long record of delivering 
dividend growth, increasing the dividend annually 
for more than 40 years. The dividend payment 
continues to be underpinned by Cobham’s cash 
generation and dividend cover of 2.6 times. 
Outlook
We have delivered a good set of results in market 
conditions that continue to be challenging.
The US defence/security market remains highly 
uncertain and we expect a period of declining, 
then flat, US Government budgets consistent  
with previous down cycles. In line with previous 
guidance, our plans are based on Group revenue 
declining organically by low-to-mid single digits  
in 201 3, as the decrease in defence/security 
revenue is only partially offset by growth in 
commercial markets. 
EiD has achieved £48m of savings to the end  
of 201 2. The majority of the savings achieved  
from additional restructuring of the cost base 
announced in November will be re-invested to 
generate incremental organic revenue. On the basis 
of current market trends, we continue to anticipate 
a return to modest organic growth from 2014, 
rising above mid single digit growth thereafter. 
The Group has a highly cash generative business 
model and a robust balance sheet. These allow  
us to invest in carefully selected acquisitions to 
bring more balance between our defence/security 
and commercial businesses, promoting long term 
revenue growth through the cycles, and underpin 
the Group’s policy of paying a 10% progressive 
annual dividend increase.
John Devaney
Chairman
6 March 201 3
Highlights
 Thrane & Thrane acquisition doubles 
predominantly commercial SATCOM revenue
 Continued focus on bringing more balance to 
defence/security and commercial businesses
 Recommended 10% increase in dividend for  
the year
Full year dividend
8.80p + 10% 
(201 1: 8.00p)
6 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s statement
