 Strategy
Last year, I set out the Group’s strategy which is to leverage its 
innovative technology, know-how and understanding of customer 
needs to build and maintain leading positions in the second and third 
tiers of the global defence/security and commercial land, marine and 
aerospace markets. This enables Cobham to generate sustainable top 
and bottom line growth, relative to the markets in which we operate, 
while consistently generating good free cash flow, thereby creating 
shareholder value.
As a Group, we have invested significantly in the development of  
our strategy during the year and we are making tangible progress 
towards achieving our objectives and we anticipate a return to 
mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
Investment in management capabilities
We have increased investment in the year to achieve the objective  
of enhancing the skills and capabilities of our employees, who are 
critical to the delivery of future growth. As part of this investment,  
we are implementing a strategic workforce plan, have commenced 
deployment of an integrated talent management programme and  
are continuing to invest in an online learning and development centre.
Programme management is a core competency focus which enables 
us to meet customer expectations and deliver growth. Considerable 
work has been undertaken to enhance functional excellence in 
project and programme management across the Group’s diverse 
range of customer and internally funded activities, together with  
an increased focus on lifecycle management.
To enable the next stage of our strategic development and to make 
further progress towards achieving sustainable growth, we have 
undertaken a review of our structure. We will be retaining our four 
previously reported Divisions, now calling them Sectors, and these will be 
Communications and Connectivity (previously Aerospace and Security), 
US Defence Electronics, Mission Systems and Aviation Services. Within 
this structure, we will consolidate our three separate Special Security 
“We are transforming  
the Group’s operational 
performance and 
customer delivery  
through our Excellence  
in Delivery programme”
Strategic Overview
This will enable us to:
Deliver growth – Generate free cash flow  
– Create shareholder value
See page 12 for more information
Our seven strategic priorities will enable us to return to sustainable 
growth. They focus on:
1. Innovation with insight
2. Focus on components and subsystems
3. Leverage our technology
4. Focus on M&A
5. Operational excellence
6. Programme execution
7. Invest in skills and capabilities
8 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Agreements into one, with all classified US Government work being 
carried out within US Defence Electronics. This consolidation requires 
the transfer of some business units from Communications and 
Connectivity to US Defence Electronics. There are no changes to the 
other two Sectors. We will reflect these changes in our reported results, 
commencing with our 2014 interims. 
We are also strengthening our senior management and reporting 
structure to support the continuing transformation. This includes  
the appointment of a Chief Operating Officer (COO) who will be 
given direct responsibility for some key Group-wide functions as  
well as direct responsibility for Communications and Connectivity 
and Mission Systems.
Technology investment
We have significantly increased PV investment to 6.2% (2012: 5.3%)  
of Group revenue. This is consistent with our previously announced 
plans to increase investment in our markets where there are good 
growth opportunities. 
As part of this, we have increased technology investment in SATCOM 
product development, relating to the new Inmarsat Global Xpress  
(GX) satellite constellation, with global coverage expected by the end 
of 2014. Within Antenna Systems, a revolutionary next generation 
Distributed Antenna System (DAS) platform, ‘idDAS’, has been 
launched. idDAS is the first major DAS platform that provides the 
ability to dynamically shift capacity around an ‘in-building’ facility  
on demand. 
 
We have also increased PV investment in Cobham Defence Systems 
in a range of critical defence/security technologies, including 
components and subsystems for next generation radar, electronic 
warfare and electronic attack applications, where there is an 
identified customer need and funding.
Total R&D investment, including customer funded projects, was  
up 19% to £186m (2012: £156m). The increased level of customer 
funding is primarily due to the ongoing significant funded 
development activity on aerial refuelling programmes, which  
is expected to increase in 2014.
Operational excellence
Our transformational EiD programme has continued to deliver critical 
improvements to operational performance and customer delivery. 
EiD has three components: the integration and rationalisation of 
operating sites into a set of principal locations; the implementation 
of a standard operating framework designed to drive operational 
excellence and establish a culture of continuous improvement; and 
the implementation of a standard ERP system.
Given the challenging conditions the Group is continuing to face  
in its US defence/security market, we have worked hard to accelerate 
the benefits of the integration and downsizing activities. A number  
of satellite facilities have been integrated or rationalised during  
the year and, in total, we have now rationalised 27 sites since the 
beginning of 2010. This has significantly reduced the cost base of the 
Group. We are using the savings generated in part to fund increased 
investment in our business, to help deliver sustainable organic growth. 
EiD has also simplified the Group’s operating structure and enhanced 
our flexibility and scalability.
Work has now been completed, as planned, in the principal locations on 
implementing the production, supply chain and engineering standard 
operating frameworks. Since the programme started, it has delivered 
significant improvements in the principal locations across a range of 
operational and customer metrics including on time delivery, quality 
and an improvement in direct labour productivity of 40%.
With centrally driven implementation activities largely finished,  
we are now focusing on actions to ensure that the significant 
progress that has been made to date is sustained, and that a  
culture of continuous improvement is embedded across the  
business to drive further improvements.
Work on the ERP system, also a major contributor to sustaining  
the operating and customer benefits of the standard operating 
framework, has continued. 
Largely driven by the significant acceleration of integration activity, 
we have achieved £28m of year-on-year efficiency savings during 
2013, well ahead of the £19m guidance. This brings the total 
annualised benefits to £76m since the programme began in 2010. 
The success in reducing costs means that we now expect EiD will 
generate £105m of annualised efficiency benefits by 2015, which  
is an increase of £5m on the previous guidance and this will be 
achieved one year earlier than planned. We expect to be able to 
achieve this within the existing budget, which is £191m over the 
programme life. EiD costs in the year were £56m, reflecting the 
acceleration of activity.
Capital allocation and mergers and acquisitions
We continue to prioritise investment for organic growth, followed  
by our long standing, progressive dividend policy. After this, we use 
the significant free cash flows generated and the strong balance sheet 
to acquire businesses that are complementary to, and reinforce,  
our differentiated technology and know-how and market positions. 
During the year, we invested over £150m in acquisitions: primarily  
Axell in May for up to £85m, including contingent consideration,  
and in July the £74m acquisition of the outstanding 50% stake in FBH, 
our helicopter joint venture. We remain focused on bringing more 
balance to the portfolio and we will achieve this through a rigorous 
and disciplined approach to investment.
Conclusion
We remain convinced that the successful pursuit of these objectives 
is key to the ongoing health of the business. Accordingly, we intend 
to maintain our strategic focus on executing our key priorities. This is 
especially important as conditions in the US defence/security market 
are likely to remain challenging in 2014. We remain confident that 
this will enable us to develop the capabilities, processes and people 
that we need to meet the Board’s growth expectations and deliver 
increasing value for Cobham’s shareholders and other stakeholders.
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
5 March 2014
9 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
