 0
2
4
6
8
10
2009
5.45
6.00
8.00
8.80
9.68
13% CAGR over ten years
pence
2010 2011 2012 2013
Overview
It has been a year of significant activity for Cobham. The Board  
has continued to give considerable focus to the Group’s strategic 
objectives, which underpin the drive towards sustainable organic 
revenue and profit growth and increasing shareholder value. 
The Group’s transformational EiD programme has enabled us to 
streamline and simplify the business and is achieving significant 
efficiency savings by reducing costs through an extensive site 
integration and rationalisation programme. In part, as we guided  
in 2012, we are using these savings to increase our investment in  
the business, as part of our focus on generating revenue growth.
EiD has continued to deliver improvements in operational 
performance and customer delivery through implementation  
of a standard operating framework across Cobham’s principal 
locations. With this first phase largely complete, the programme  
is moving into a continuous improvement phase that will not only 
sustain the progress already made but also drive further performance 
improvements. Operational excellence is essential to enable the 
Group to meet or, wherever possible, exceed customer expectations 
as the foundation for the delivery of sustainable organic revenue  
and profit growth. 
We have increased our investment in the business, linking this more 
closely to market opportunities and the needs of our customers.  
We have leading positions in attractive technology-led markets  
and we aim to grow market share and revenue by investing in  
new or improved products, which are often smaller, lighter and  
less power consumptive than legacy products. 
Furthermore, we also leverage our core suite of technologies into new 
commercial and geographic markets where suitable opportunities can 
be identified. This is aligned with our strategic objective of bringing 
more balance to the portfolio, so that the Group remains exposed to 
faster growth markets. The shift in the portfolio is also being achieved 
through carefully selected acquisitions, with two businesses with 
“There has been considerable 
focus on the drive towards 
sustainable organic revenue 
and profit growth”
Full year dividend
9.68p +10%
(2012: 8.80p)
6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement highly complementary technology and know-how purchased in the 
year, also reinforcing our market positions.
None of this is possible without the right skills and capabilities in the 
business. We have therefore increased our investment in our people 
in recent years, and we are linking our workforce requirements more 
closely to the business planning process, reinvigorating our approach 
to training and development and strengthening key management 
capabilities within the business. The Board is also mindful of the 
ageing demographics within the aerospace and defence industry and 
so we are gradually increasing the number of university graduates in 
the business, with a focus on science and engineering, and we are 
increasing the number of apprentices we recruit from schools.
A strong and effective governance framework is essential in enabling 
the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. Good progress 
has been made in this area in 2013, in particular in enhancing the 
Group’s programme management processes and introducing new 
procedures aimed at improving allocation of PV expenditure to 
targeted commercial opportunities. 
The Group strives for the highest standards possible in setting its 
ethics and compliance rules, and at all times to comply with all laws 
and regulations that apply in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  
It is therefore very disappointing for me to have to tell you about a 
potential issue with sales practices in a small business unit supplying 
products into Asia. This issue was identified internally and elevated 
through Cobham’s reporting lines, in accordance with our ethics 
policy and training. After an initial internal investigation, we made  
a voluntary disclosure to the US Department of Justice (DoJ) on  
24 February 2014. The investigation into this issue is ongoing and 
Cobham continues to co-operate fully with the DoJ.
The Board
We welcomed Simon Nicholls to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 
1 May 2013. Simon joined us from Senior plc, a FTSE250 international 
group manufacturing engineered products for aerospace, defence and 
industrial applications. In his previous role as Group Finance Director  
at Senior, Simon played a key role in the strategic evolution and growth 
of the business and his experience of financial leadership will make him 
pivotal to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Simon replaced Warren Tucker, who stood down after ten years 
service as Chief Financial Officer. The Board would like to thank 
Warren for his vision and enormous contribution to the Group  
over this time.
We also welcomed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Jonathan Flint  
as a Non-executive Director. Jonathan is Chief Executive of Oxford 
Instruments plc, a leading provider of high technology tools and 
systems for research and industry, where he continues to deliver 
strong growth and shareholder value in technology-led markets 
around the world. 
Marcus Beresford, Non-executive and Senior Independent Director, 
stood down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting. The Board is grateful to Marcus for his dedicated 
service over nine years and his invaluable contribution to Cobham 
during that time. With his departure, Michael Wareing has taken  
on the role of Senior Independent Director.
John Patterson, Non-executive Director and the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, will stand down from the Board at the 
conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The Board is grateful 
for his significant contribution and support over the last nine years. 
Alison Wood will assume the role of Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee following his departure.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 7.04p (2012: 
6.40p). This, together with the interim dividend of 2.64p (2012: 2.40p), 
will result in a total dividend per share for 2013 of 9.68p (2012: 8.80p), 
an increase of 10% on the prior year.
The Board is proud of Cobham’s long record of delivering a 
progressive dividend to our shareholders. The dividend has been 
increased consecutively for the last 43 years, an enduring track record 
that only a handful of other companies can match. This has been 
made possible in part due to Cobham’s cash generative business 
model, its differentiated positions in attractive technology markets 
and its prudent investment in acquisitions. Following investment in 
the business, we will continue to prioritise increasing the dividend 
payment in line with the long standing, progressive dividend policy.
Outlook
Cobham has delivered full year results in line with its guidance,  
in what remains a challenging US defence/security market. It has 
made good progress in the year against its strategic objectives, 
including increased technology and other organic investments,  
and accelerated benefits from the operational excellence  
programme. It is now realigning its organisational structure  
to enable the next stage of development.
 
Trading conditions in the US defence/security market are likely  
to remain challenging in 2014 with potentially significant foreign 
currency headwinds and continued pressure on US defence/security 
investment accounts. However, the Group anticipates that its strong 
and growing positions in attractive commercial markets and the 
generally positive prospects for its non-US defence/security markets 
will partially offset this, and Cobham continues to plan for Group 
organic revenue to decline by low-to-mid single digits in 2014. 
Cobham will continue to take further actions as appropriate to 
substantially mitigate the impact of this organic decline. 
Cobham has innovative technology and know-how supported  
by market leading positions, which allows it to leverage across  
its markets. As a result the Board continues to anticipate that it  
will deliver mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
Cobham benefits from a cash generative business model and a 
strong balance sheet, which enables it to maintain its long standing 
policy of a 10% progressive annual dividend increase.
John Devaney
Chairman
5 March 2014
7 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
