 Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
www.cobham.com 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Strategy and progress overview
The Board has a clear and unwavering focus on creating 
value for Cobham’s shareholders through leveraging the 
Group’s innovative technology, know-how and 
understanding of customer requirements to build and 
maintain leading positions in the second and third tiers  
of commercial aerospace, marine, wireless and other land 
markets and the global defence/security market. We will 
deliver sustainable top and bottom line growth, relative  
to the markets in which we operate, while consistently 
generating good free cash flow. 
Our strategy has two major strands. The first is an organic 
strategy, based on the three pillars of continuously investing 
in the business, improving execution and increasing 
customer intimacy. We invest to keep our technology, 
people and processes at the cutting edge in the markets 
in which we operate. Maintaining technology differentiation 
is critical to the future success of the business and it needs 
to be backed up with flawless execution to meet ever 
increasing customer expectations. This includes maintaining 
an efficient, competitive cost base. The combination of 
these pillars enables us to compete effectively and deliver 
organic growth.
This organic investment is supplemented by using the healthy 
cash flows that the business generates and its balance sheet 
capacity to acquire businesses that operate in the same or 
closely adjacent markets. This further strengthens our leading 
market positions and ensures our portfolio is exposed to 
markets that are growing organically as we move through 
economic cycles. Potential acquisitions must have similar 
operating characteristics and leading edge technology or 
know-how. As two thirds of the Group’s portfolio is now 
exposed to connectivity markets, which is underpinned by 
strong macro growth trends, this will continue to be a focus 
for the Group. 
Organic strategy and execution
We increased PV investment in the year to £97m 
(2013: £88m), representing 6.7% of revenue (2013: 6.2%). 
We continued to focus this investment on our leading edge 
technologies where there is most opportunity for profitable 
growth, investing in a range of exciting new products and 
technologies, including the following examples:
 − Development and launch of the SATCOM SAILOR 100 
GX system for the marine market and the EXPLORER 
5075 GX system for the land market. Shipments of 
SATCOM terminals are expected to benefit from the 
global entry into commercial service of the Inmarsat GX 
satellite constellation. This is currently anticipated to be 
early in the second half of 2015, with Inmarsat 
announcing the successful launch of the second of 
three satellites in February 2015;
 − The Semiconductor Solutions business, formerly part  
of Aeroflex, has successfully developed and brought to 
market a 90nm application specific integrated circuit for 
use in space, delivering size and weight benefits to its 
customers together with reduced power requirements;
 − The Mission Systems Sector has developed its on-board 
oxygen system (OBOGS), which has been used for 
military applications for the general and business 
aviation markets. First revenue is expected in 2015. 
OBOGS has a number of advantages over alternative 
technologies including being cheaper to use as well as 
being lighter. It also has additional safety features;
A CLEAR AND UNWA VERING
FOCUS ON CREA TING
SHAREHOLDER V ALUE
“ We’ve made good progress 
towards delivering our 
strategic objective of 
achieving sustainable 
organic growth.”
Commercial revenue
39%
(2013: 35%)
PV investment
6.7%
(2013: 6.2%) Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
11
www.cobham.com 
STRATEGIC REPORT
 − Within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, the 
technology focus within its defence businesses has been 
on developing smaller and lighter products which use 
less power, provide enhanced mission effectiveness and 
which are less costly for customers. These are for priority 
defence applications including: ship protection, the next 
generation of radar and contested airspace applications.
Total Group R&D investment, including customer funded 
projects, was £198m (2013: £186m). The increase in 
customer funded R&D was primarily driven by ongoing 
major development activity on aerial refuelling programmes. 
Total Group R&D investment, including customer funded 
projects, was £198m (2013: £186m). The increase in 
customer funded R&D was primarily driven by ongoing 
major development activity on aerial refuelling programmes 
which, as they move through this phase, tend to generate 
lower margins and so dilute the Group’s overall margin 
performance. In February 2015 we also announced we 
would make a one-off provision of £15m on these 
programmes, addressing cost escalation. However, these 
are critical programmes and we are confident that they 
will lead to significant future streams of production and 
aftermarket revenue over an extended timeframe. 
In addition to our investment in our core technology 
capabilities we have, as anticipated, substantially  
concluded the successful multi-year EiD programme.  
EiD has succeeded in significantly reducing the cost base 
through a targeted programme of site integrations and 
rationalisations. These, when combined with business 
improvements, have enabled us to deliver the anticipated 
£24m of year-on-year efficiency savings in the year, bringing 
total annualised benefits to £100m since the programme 
was launched in 2010. These savings have, in part, been 
used to significantly increase organic investment, including 
in technology and in skills and capabilities.
The Group has transitioned to a new operational  
structure in the year, through its organisational design 
project, with four realigned Sectors replacing the four 
Divisions and it has strengthened its senior management 
and reporting structure to align it with the drive to deliver 
sustainable growth.
Capital deployment strategy
In the context of maintaining a robust balance sheet,  
which enables recurring business commitments to be met, 
including external financing and pension obligations, the  
key elements of our capital deployment strategy are:
 − To prioritise investment in the business for  
organic growth;
 − To maintain a progressive dividend policy; and
 − To utilise the balance sheet and strong cash generation 
to acquire businesses that reinforce our differentiated 
technology and know-how, in particular where these 
enable us to leverage our capabilities into adjacent, 
growing commercial markets.
Acquisition of Aeroflex
In 2014, as well as continuing to meet our strategic 
objectives in respect of organic investment and dividends, 
we have increased our exposure towards growing, 
commercial markets through the acquisition of Aeroflex,  
for an enterprise value of approximately US$1,460m. In 
total, some 70% of Aeroflex’s revenue is generated from 
commercial markets. Consistent with Cobham’s strategy, 
Aeroflex’s revenue is connectivity focused, further 
increasing exposure to the growing demand for data, 
connectivity and bandwidth, so that approximately two 
thirds of the Group’s revenue is now focused in this area. 
Aeroflex is a leading global provider of radio frequency  
and microwave subsystems and components for critical and 
harsh environments. It also operates in high end, technology- 
led segments of the wireless and communications market, 
having a leading position in the provision of technology for 
specialist wireless infrastructure testing applications. Aeroflex 
has similar revenue growth potential to Cobham, with similar 
trading margins and cash generation characteristics.
We have been pleased with the trading performance of 
Aeroflex in the period since completion, which has been 
in line with the Board’s plan. Aeroflex also brings substantial 
revenue and cost synergy opportunities. Its microelectronics 
business has been combined with Cobham’s Advanced 
Electronic Solutions Sector, so that they are now being 
managed together, having considerable complementary 
technology and customer cross-selling opportunities.  
There are also opportunities for synergy between Aeroflex’s 
wireless business and existing Cobham businesses, including 
Axell Wireless. These businesses have also been placed 
under common management as part of Cobham’s 
Communications and Connectivity Sector.
We remain encouraged by the overall potential scope  
for realising synergies from combining the companies, 
targeting some US$85m on an annualised, run rate basis,  
for a total cost of US$215m. Approximately 60% of the 
benefits and 70% of the costs are expected to be in the 
first three years of ownership. The integration of the two 
businesses has got off to a good start, with good early 
progress on delivering the underlying synergies identified 
including a significant reduction in central costs, the 
commencement of supply chain initiatives and the 
announcement of the first major physical site integration. 
Conclusion
In 2014 we made significant progress on the delivery of 
Cobham’s strategic objectives. Completing the Aeroflex 
acquisition was a key highlight, increasing the Group’s 
exposure to growing commercial markets, and Aeroflex’s 
post acquisition trading and integration has been in line with 
the Board’s expectations. This progress enhances Cobham’s 
position as a technology company with exciting prospects 
based on its close customer relationships, differentiated 
technology and know-how, market leading positions and 
an increasingly strong operational foundation.
Overall we have made significant progress on the delivery  
of our strategic objectives in 2014 and, as anticipated, 
Cobham remains well positioned to deliver mid-single  
digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
4 March 2015
 Strategic Overview
Our strategic priorities allow us to: 
Deliver growth 
Generate free cash flow  
Create shareholder value
The seven strategic priorities that enable  
us to return to sustainable growth are:
1. Innovation with insight
2.  Focus on components  
and subsystems
3. Leverage our technology
4. Focus on M&A
5. Operational excellence
6. Programme execution
7 .  Invest in skills and 
capabilities
 See page 14 for more information.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
  See page 28 for more information  
on our financial performance 
