 Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8
www.cobham.com 
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
I am pleased with the progress we have made, 
implementing the Group’s strategy and positioning 
the business to deliver sustainable growth, despite 
the challenging market background in the year, 
In the US, the defence/security market is continuing 
through its periodic down-cycle, albeit with the rate of 
decline expected to moderate. Our other global defence/
security markets are mixed, with investment in Europe being 
held back but we are seeing growth in other parts of the 
world. Our commercial businesses continue to benefit  
from good momentum and we expect this to continue.
We are also going through a phase of increased engineering 
and development activity which, while it creates short term 
pressures for the business, will ultimately result in a stream 
of long term revenue from high priority programmes, as 
they move into production and aftermarket phases. 
Over a number of years, we have successfully increased 
the rate of our investment in technology and this now 
stands at 6.7% of revenue. We have also continued to  
invest in the Group’s employees, building on the training  
and development programmes that were initiated in 
previous years. Cobham has also joined the 5% club,  
an initiative which commits UK employers to hiring 5%  
of its intake as apprentices or graduates within five years. 
We substantially completed the multi-year EiD programme 
in 2014, which has improved productivity, as well as 
delivering a fundamental improvement across a range of 
operational metrics. It has also delivered significant cost 
savings. Not only is this programme supporting us in our 
efforts to grow the business through consistent delivery to 
our customers, the savings have also given us the 
opportunity to increase our investment in the business.  
We are now using the expertise gained during the EiD 
implementation in the integration of Aeroflex. Building on 
the progress made over the last few years, we have also 
further moved the balance of the portfolio towards 
attractive and growing commercial markets. We have 
continued to grow our commercial revenue organically 
often leveraging technology from our defence/security 
markets into adjacent commercial markets. 
Bob Murphy has transitioned the Group to a new 
operational structure in the year, through the organisational 
design project. Four realigned Sectors have replaced the four 
Divisions and it has strengthened the senior management 
and reporting structure to align it with the drive to deliver 
sustainable growth.
We have continued to review and align the culture of the 
business, with the initiation of the Great Place to Work
®
 
survey. Included in this, is a Group-wide employee 
engagement and feedback initiative, which had an initial 
response rate of over 80% of employees. Work will continue 
on this initiative through 2015 to build on and sustain 
engagement with employees. This should ensure the 
workforce is fully aligned with the Group’s growth strategy 
and other objectives as well as monitoring and building 
the job satisfaction of our employees.
Of course, acting ethically and in compliance with all 
applicable laws and regulations is another fundamental 
cornerstone of sustainable growth and a key foundation of 
our culture, on which we will not compromise. This principle 
is enshrined within the Cobham Code of Business Conduct. 
We have striven to ensure that every single Cobham 
MOVING THE BALANCE OF THE
PORTFOLIO TOWARDS A TTRACTIVE
COMMERCIAL MARKETS
“ We have a tremendous 
track record of providing  
an increasing dividend 
to our shareholders.”
Full year dividend
10.65p
(2013: 9.68p) 13% CAGR over ten years in dividend (pence)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
6.00
8.00
8.80
9.68
10.65
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
9
www.cobham.com 
STRATEGIC REPORT
employee knows what is expected of them and understands 
the standards to be met. We have been mandating training 
programmes on the Cobham Code of Business Conduct for 
a number of years and I am pleased to say that we have 
achieved 100% employee training in the year. This will 
continue to receive an appropriate level of senior 
management focus going forward.
The Board
After nine years service John Patterson, Non-executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee,  
stood down from the Cobham Board at the conclusion  
of the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2014. We are 
grateful for his significant contribution and support over  
this period. Alison Wood has taken over as Chair of  
the Remuneration Committee.
Also on 24 April 2014, we welcomed Birgit Nørgaard to  
the Board as a Non-executive Director. Birgit is a Danish 
national and has extensive experience in engineering related 
markets, including as the former Chief Executive Officer  
of Grontmij Carl Bro, the Danish engineering consultancy 
group, as well as the Chief Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, 
its Dutch parent company. She currently holds a number of 
non-executive roles in the private and public sector in the 
UK and overseas. Birgit has also joined Cobham’s 
Remuneration Committee.
We have also welcomed Alan Semple to the Board on 
25 February 2015. Alan is currently a Director and Chief 
Financial Officer at John Wood Group plc, a role which he 
has announced he will retire from in May 2015, after 15 
years service. Alan has also been appointed to the Group’s 
Audit Committee, so that it can benefit from his deep and 
extensive financial knowledge. At the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015, Alan will become 
Chair of the Audit Committee. He will replace Mike Wareing, 
who will stand down as Chair on that date but remain a 
member of the Audit Committee. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2014 
of 7.746p (2013: 7.04p). This, together with the interim 
dividend of 2.904p (2012: 2.64p), will result in a total 
dividend per share for 2014 of 10.65p (2013: 9.68p),  
an increase of 10% on the prior year, in line with the  
Group’s progressive dividend policy. 
The Group has a long track record of dividend growth 
and the Board remains committed to continuing to pay 
a progressive dividend. As Cobham now enters a new 
phase of sustainable growth, the Board has considered 
its future approach to dividends. It has concluded that 
future dividend increases should be broadly aligned with 
underlying earnings growth, while rebuilding dividend  
cover over time. This policy will give it flexibility to drive 
growth and maximise shareholder returns.
Conclusion 
We will now focus the Group on delivering organic revenue 
growth, integrating Aeroflex, generating strong cash flows 
from operations and continuing to upgrade our programme 
management skills and capabilities. We will also continue  
to make significant investment in the portfolio to further 
strengthen our leading market positions 
Overall, Cobham has excellent prospects based on its close 
customer relationships, differentiated technology and 
know-how, market leading positions and an increasingly 
strong operational foundation, enabling us to drive 
sustainable growth through economic cycles.
John Devaney
Chairman
4 March 2015
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
  See page 28 for more information  
on our financial performance.
