 Chief Executive’s Review
Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 3
The year ended 30 September 2003 was a critical year
in Cobra’s development, being the first full financial
year as an independent Plc. Under challenging market
conditions, we have increased contract manufacturing
revenue by 137% to £6.0 million (2002 £2.5 million)
and generated a pre-tax profit of £0.8 million (2002
£0.9 million loss). The foundation for further
expansion was laid with a further successful
fundraising of £5.2 million before expenses and the
acquisition of the new Oxford Facility, doubling our
present capacity. In addition, during 2003 we
concluded a number of deals, which demonstrate the
value of the Group’s technology.
Our Business
Cobra’s mission is to work in partnership with our
customers to accelerate the clinical development of
their products and in so doing add significant value to
their businesses. This added value is achieved by the
application of the most advanced manufacturing
technologies available that deliver products to our
customers of the highest quality standards. Cobra
specialises in the manufacture of new wave, high value,
potent medicines, whose origins are in the DNA
revolution and whose commercialisation requires the
development of innovative manufacturing solutions. 
Business Climate
The Group has been able to increase manufacturing
revenue in a difficult trading environment. Revenue
from the US has increased by 158%, this is the primary
target market for our services because 75% of the
global biotechnology research and development spend
is in the US. We have increased revenue by 151% in the
UK, the location of the most exciting product oriented
companies in Europe. In 2003 Continental Europe
revenue has dropped by 27%; a reflection of the
appetite for biotechnology funding in Europe. The
strength of Cobra’s offering is validated by our
increased sales under such an adverse trading
environment. We have also been able to establish
strong sales in regions not normally associated with
biotechnology, in particular Australia and South Africa,
with revenue up 928% in the Rest of the World.
Although the reduced level of funds flowing into the
biotechnology sector has weakened the overall market
for Phase I/II biomanufacturing, the reduction in
demand has been offset by the increasing involvement
of non-governmental organisations in vaccines
development and also investment by government
agencies in measures to protect against bio-terrorism. 
During the year sentiment towards the US
biotechnology sector has rebounded and 2003 is set to
become the second best year ever in terms of
financing.  This factor coupled with the predominance
of the US in this sector, makes Cobra’s penetration of
the US market pivotal to our continued growth and we
will increase our sales and marketing effort in the US
through 2004. 
Cobra’s Strategy
The Group’s short-term goal is to become a leader in
the supply of high value, high potency
biopharmaceuticals for early phase clinical trials with a
mid-term objective of moving into the supply of
commercial quantities of these drugs. The foundation
of this growth is in the application of those innovative
manufacturing technologies, which can capture long-
term value for the Group.  
Achieving the mid-term objective is the critical next
stage of the Group’s development. Biopharmaceutical
drugs require expensive specialist manufacturing
facilities. There is a significant risk of product failure in
clinical testing, investment in manufacturing plant is
high risk for all pharmaceutical companies. To manage
such risks contract manufacturers like Cobra need a
diverse pipeline of promising projects feeding through
from early clinical trials. Cobra’s current strategy is to
develop a pipeline of customers with successful
innovative products in early clinical trials to mitigate
the effect of their drug failure on our investment in
commercial manufacture.
Expansion in Oxford
In June 2003, the Group acquired the Oxford Facility,
previously operated by Accentus Plc (a division of AEA
Technology Plc). This acquisition is the keystone of our
expansion strategy. The facility, originally built by
British Biotech Plc for the GMP ("Good Manufacturing
Practice") manufacture of vaccines, is being completely
refurbished and will more than double the Group’s
current capacity. 
Three GMP manufacturing suites, one microbial, one
animal cell and one equipped to manufacture either
type of product will be fully validated and operational 
Cobra manufacturing Increase/
revenue (£000’s) 2003 2002 decrease
UK 2,114 843 151%
US 1,426 553 158%
Europe 711 972 -27%
Rest of the World 1,769 172 928%
Total 6,020 2,540 137% Chief Executive’s Review
Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 4
Expansion in Oxford (continued)
by the second quarter of 2004. This expansion will
give Cobra the capacity to support up to six GMP
microbial and four animal cell programmes
simultaneously and will also double our process
development capability.
Our Success is Our Clients Success
Cobra not only manufactures products per se but also
provides a comprehensive support service from
cloning through to preparation of the CMC
("Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls") dossier for
regulatory submission and then supporting our clients
with their ongoing dialogue with the regulatory
agencies. 
The success of this business is founded on excellence
in molecular biology, an innovative approach to
bioprocessing, an overriding commitment to quality
and where possible exceeding the requirements of
the regulatory authorities. This core competency in
advanced molecular biology allows Cobra to
manufacture all the major types of biopharmaceutical
products: Plasmid DNA, genetically engineered
Viruses, recombinant Proteins and Cell Therapies.
Molecular and Cell Biology
Although Cell Line construction revenue in 2003 only
increased by 4%, molecular biology underpins Cobra’s
competitive edge. Most projects handled by the
Group require upfront molecular biology to tailor the
final production cell line for scale up and regulatory
approval. In addition, our Molecular Biology Team
continues to engineer proprietary cell lines; the
cornerstone of our process intellectual property. This
research is aimed at improving the productivity
and/or safety of our partners’ products in ways that
can significantly add value to their products. Our Cell
Line intellectual property ranges from UCOE, an
animal cell expression technology, to Cobra’s
microbial strains designed to enhance product
quality; ORT
®
for antibiotic free manufacture of
biopharmaceuticals; high potency strains of
Salmonella for oral delivery of vaccine antigens and
strains of Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis
genetically engineered to reduce contaminant
profiles.  
Plasmid DNA and DNA Vaccines
Cobra has a global reputation for the quality of its
Plasmid DNA. DNA represented 53% of total revenue
for 2003, a 158% increase on 2002. We have
continued to consolidate our position as a major
manufacturer of DNA vaccines (70% of total DNA
revenue for 2003) and a leader in provision of DNA
HIV/AIDS vaccines (64% of total DNA revenue for
2003). The current mode of vaccination used in DNA
vaccination programmes uses a prime with Plasmid
DNA then either a boost with DNA or with a
genetically engineered Virus. Cobra is the only
contract manufacturer providing a "one-stop shop"
for all these strategies.
HIV/AIDS Vaccines
The Group now supports three DNA HIV/AIDS vaccine
programmes sponsored by the International Aids
Vaccine Initiative ("IAVI"), two for the South African
Aids Vaccine Initiative ("SAAVI") and two for the
EuroVac/CHIVAC consortium. The lead vaccine
candidate globally for the treatment of HIV/AIDS is a
DNA vaccine approach (DNA.HIVA) developed by
Professor Andrew McMichael at the University of
Oxford and Professor Bwayo at the University of
Nairobi in Kenya and manufactured by Cobra. This
product has been used in small Phase I studies in the
UK and Kenya. In addition a blinded Phase I/II trial,
being conducted at St Mary’s Hospital, London and at
the Kenya Vaccine Initiative in Kenya, is now close to
completion. The results from this study will be available
in the second quarter of 2004. The vaccine has also
been administered in a Phase I trial in Uganda
DNA manufacturing revenue 
(£000’s) 2003 2003%
DNA HIV/AIDS vaccines 2,033 64%
DNA other vaccines 209 6%
Total DNA vaccines 2,242 70%
DNA other 947 30%
Total 3,189
Cobra manufacturing 
revenue by 
product (£000’s) 2003 2003% 2002 Increase
DNA 3,189 53% 1,236 158%
Virus 1,063 18% 554 92%
Protein 1,576 26% 565 179%
Cell Line 192 3% 185 4%
Total 6,020 2,540 Chief Executive’s Review
Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 5
HIV/AIDS Vaccines (continued)
from which data will be available by mid 2004. A
second vaccine sponsored from Professor Andrew
McMichael’s laboratory is called DNA.RENTA. This
vaccine, again manufactured by Cobra in 2003 will
begin Phase I trails by the end of the second quarter of
2004. A third vaccine sponsored by IAVI called
DREP .HIVA and originating from Professor Peter
Liljstrom’s laboratory at the Karolinska Institute,
Stockholm has been prepared and shipped for pre-
clinical evaluation in the first quarter of 2004. Clinical
trials are anticipated to start in the final quarter of
2004.
In November 2002 we announced a long-term
manufacturing deal with SAAVI providing the Group
with the option to manufacture the DNA HIV/AIDS
vaccine for the South African market and also giving
the Group the commercialisation rights on the vaccine
for the rest of the world. Initial clinical batches were
manufactured by Cobra in 2003 and will enter clinical
trials in 2004 in the US, funded by the National Institute
of Health HIVTN Network.
Multiple Sclerosis
This year we were pleased to initiate work on two DNA
vaccines against mulitple sclerosis developed by Bayhill
Therapeutics Inc. a spin out of Stanford University in
the US. We are pleased to be working with such an
innovative company, which has invented a pioneering
approach to prevent the devastating affects of
autoimmune disease.
Virus Manufacture 
Revenue from Virus manufacture increased by 92% in
2003, driven largely by a prostate gene therapy project
with the Australian pharmaceutical company, Mayne
Pharma. We are pleased to report that our other
partner in prostate cancer gene therapy, ML
Laboratories Plc, entered a Phase II clinical trial, and we
have also initiated a contract for the manufacture of a
Lentivirus with Europe’s leading gene therapy
company; Oxford Biomedica Plc.
Protein Manufacture
Revenue from Protein manufacture rose by 179% in
2003, largely due to the process development and GMP
production of a generic interferon for clinical
evaluation. We were also pleased to begin work with
Dr Shirley Longacre of the Institute Pasteur on an
exciting protein sub-unit vaccine for Malaria. Sponsored
by the Institute, the French Ministry of Research, the
European Union and the World Health Organisation
this vaccine is manufactured in baculovirus and is the
only vaccine, which shows sterilising immunity in a Sri
Lankan macaque model. In November 2002 we
announced that one of our customers, Evolutec Limited
had obtained permission to carry out a Phase I clinical
trial for a Protein biopharmaceutical to treat
conjunctivitis. This project was the first clinical
programme involving a Protein manufactured by Cobra
under scrutiny from the US Food and Drugs Agency.
Protein biopharmaceuticals constitute over 90% of the
global research and development spend on
biopharmaceuticals. We expect Protein manufacture
will be a growth area for Cobra as the Group gains a
track record for delivery in this sector. Chief Executive’s Review
Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 6
Cell Therapies
The use of live cells or organisms as pharmaceutical
agents or vaccines is by no means new. However the
use of molecular biology to manipulate and enhance
the safety and efficacy of such organisms is a new and
fertile area of clinical research. In July 2003 it was a
pleasure to announce a long-term partnership with
the US company Advaxis Inc for the manufacture of a
vaccine against cervical cancer. Based on the
pioneering work of Yvonne Patterson of the University
of Pennsylvania, this vaccine is delivered by a live
genetically engineered but harmless strain of Listeria.
Cobra is also working on a long-term project with the
UK government’s Defence Science and Technology
Laboratories on an oral vaccine approach that could be
used to immunise against bio-terrorist instigated and
other diseases.
Outlook
Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc has a unique offering in
the biopharmaceutical sector. Based on the advanced
application of genetic engineering and bioprocessing
approaches we are able to significantly enhance the
value of our clients’ products and in exchange develop
long-term value flowing back to the Group. We have
demonstrated over the past year that the value of our
process know-how can be captured through
commercial manufacturing agreements, through
royalty deals on process intellectual property rights
and through the acquisition of rights to commercialise
the products themselves in designated territories.
Dr David Thatcher
Chief Executive
2 December 2003
Celline 3% DNA - HIV 
vaccines 34%
DNA - other
vaccines 3%
DNA - other 16% Protein 26%
Virus 18%
Revenue 2003 by product type
US 24% Europe 12%
Australia 9% UK 35% Africa 13% Asia 7%
Revenue 2003 by destination
