 Chairman’s statement
Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 2
Cobra’s first full financial year as an independent Plc has
fulfilled the promise of the business on its listing on the
Alternative Investment Market in June 2002.  Contract
manufacturing revenue for the financial year ending 30
September 2003 of £6.0 million is 137% ahead of the
previous year (2002 £2.5million) with a profit before tax
of £0.8 million (2002 £0.9 million loss) and cash flow
from our existing Keele Facility remaining positive.
These results have been achieved through increased
business development activity, particularly in the US
following the opening of our office in Chicago in
November 2002 (revenue from the US, the world’s
largest biopharmaceutical market, provided 24% of the
Group’s revenue in the year) and was supported by
repeat business from customers worldwide,
representing 67% of total revenue for 2003. 
Cobra’s scale of potential business in the supply of early-
stage clinical trials provided the impetus behind a
doubling of capacity in June 2003, through the
acquisition of an additional manufacturing site in
Oxford ("the Oxford Facility"), and a Placing and Open
Offer raising £5.2 million before expenses, which was 5
times oversubscribed. The Oxford Facility will be a
dedicated process development and production unit.
This will expand both DNA and Virus manufacturing
capacity, and importantly, will also allow for Phase I and
II Protein manufacture. This makes Cobra the only
organisation that we know of able to offer customers
all forms of biopharmaceutical products during their
critical development phases.
During the financial year we completed contracts for 24
customers, we maintained 27 customer programmes
and entered into an increasing number of long-term
supply agreements. These agreements provide the
option for Cobra to supply late stage clinical trial
materials and in-market supply and they cover products
with a relatively high probability of clinical and
commercial success. The Group is currently investigating
ways of accessing larger scale facilities in anticipation of
such an outcome.  
It should be appreciated that even without such
facilities, our business model provides for the Group to
participate in a customer’s product success via
technology transfer fees and/or royalties on sales where
products incorporate the Group’s patents and know-
how.
Accordingly, we continue to research new ways of
formulating and manufacturing with several new
patent applications in progress. During the year our
unique DNA process patent was granted in Europe
following its earlier approval in the US. This patent
relates to the large-scale manufacture of Plasmid DNA
medicines and vaccines to the rigorous quality standards
required by the regulatory authorities.
The funding environment for biotechnology companies
in the UK and Europe remains an issue, and many of
these companies are Cobra’s potential customers. The
US market remains relatively buoyant and a further
expansion of business development in the US is
underway. Recruitment of high calibre people is also
now taking place in Oxford to progressively staff the
new facility with the result that over the next financial
year employee numbers for the Group will almost
double. We anticipate key appointments in Human
Resource Management, Account Management and
Quality Assurance Management.  
As indicated, further expansion is now under review
and as the scale of the business increases so too will the
range of corporate development options on the one
hand and corporate compliance requirements on the
other. It is therefore with pleasure that I am able to
announce from today the appointment of a third non-
executive director, Michael Gatenby, a chartered
accountant with an Honours degree in Law, and
currently a director of Johnson Service Group Plc, Porvair
Plc, SRS Technology Group Plc and Protherics Plc.
Cobra is a knowledge-led business driven by its highly
qualified and experienced staff, whose commitment and
enthusiasm have resulted in demonstrable success.
These results are a credit to their hard work throughout
the year and I would like to thank everyone for the
positive way they have responded to our new operating
environment. Maintaining this momentum in the
present environment will be challenging, but the
fundamentals are in place to leverage our position in
the world-wide marketplace for biopharmaceuticals,
with market leadership as our goal.
G P Fothergill
Executive Chairman
2 December 2003
