 Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 3
Chief Executive’s Review
Cobra’s business is the provision of manufacturing expertise
to accelerate the clinical development of our clients’
experimental drug candidates. Recently Cobra has
successfully adapted to a rapidly expanding market for these
specialist services evidenced by an average growth in
turnover of 45% over the past four reporting periods. The
strategy underpinning this growth has been our sales focus
in the North American market and broadening our offering
to cover manufacture of all types of biopharmaceuticals.
Cobra’s major client base, comprising 90% of turnover, is
small to medium sized biotech product development
companies. The appetite for investment in such companies
continues, particularly in North America and the prospects
for Cobra’s sustained expansion are encouraging.
Geographic Trends 
North America continues to dominate the biotechnology
industry both in terms of product development and global
investment. Penetration of the North American market is a
key target for Cobra and the focus of the sales and
marketing effort in this territory led to a 460% increase in
turnover during 2005 to £6.1m (2004: £1.1m). This represents
79% of turnover (2004: 31% 2003: 24%). Cobra now has
three sales staff operating in North America centred in the
West Coast, Mid West and East Coast biotechnology hubs.
Because of our location, the UK and Continental Europe
remain important potential markets for Cobra. However the
funding environment in Europe for small biotechnology
companies, particularly start-ups, is extremely tight and
turnover in these territories has dropped by 36% and 20%
respectively compared with 2004. Given the opening up of
the IPO market and other investment trends we expect that
the European market for Cobra’s services will increase over
the coming financial year.
Protein Products
Protein products dominate the world market for
biopharmaceuticals. The recent outstanding success of
biopharmaceutical based medicines (with current sales of
$60.0bn*) continues with the introduction of a number of
recent blockbuster products (e.g. Herceptin, Avastin,
Remicade and Humira). Growth of the biopharmaceuticals
market is double that of the conventional drugs’ market and
is driving further investment in the search for new protein
drugs. Development of this type of medicine has become
and will remain the major potential market for Cobra’s
services. Cobra has over ten years of technical experience in
the development of both microbial and mammalian protein
products. Over the past year turnover from protein
production has grown by 473% to £3.2m (2004: £0.6m) and
now constitutes 41% of sales (2004: 16% 2003: 26%). The
worldwide market for biomanufacturing services the
majority of which is protein manufacture is approaching
$2.0bn** and the market for supply of early stage products
$460m**. Cobra is successfully building a track record in this
expanding market by offering specialised manufacturing
services where the production process is non-standard and
development requires the application of innovative science. 
Virus Products
Turnover from virus manufacture has continued to expand,
up 78% compared with 2004. Virus manufacture is highly
specialised requiring specifically designed containment
facilities and expertise in the production of each particular
virus type. Over the past two years Cobra has gained
expertise in the manufacture of all the major types of
genetically engineered virus being developed for medical
intervention and this puts the Group in a strong position to
compete globally for large scale virus manufacturing
programmes. Another attraction of the virus business is that
relatively modest capacity is required to manufacture
commercial quantities of many virus products. Cobra has
already invested in such capacity and we are able to offer a
highly competitive ‘clone to market’ development package
in a relatively small but potentially profitable market.
*   Werner 2005 – Bioprocess International (Sept 2005)
** High Tech Business Decisions ‘Biopharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 2005’
60011 Cobra Report & Accs 2005  27/1/06  5:19 pm  Page 3 Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 4
Chief Executive’s Review
DNA Products
After experiencing a rapidly declining trading environment
in 2004, the manufacture of DNA products recovered
throughout 2005 by an impressive 32% but is still below the
level reached in 2003. We expect turnover from DNA
manufacturing to remain at this level in the short term.
Cell Products
Cell products are medicines where the active principle is a
bacterial cell itself, unlike Cobra’s other microbial products
which are products purified from such cells. In November
2005 we announced a long term manufacturing agreement
with Advaxis Inc, which gives Cobra an option on the
commercial manufacture of Advaxis’ products. Cobra also
owns a product development platform, called ORT-VAC,
which we continue to develop in collaboration with DSTL
(UK Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton
Down). Earlier in the year Cobra and DSTL scientists jointly
published a paper in the prestigious peer reviewed journal
Infection and Immunity demonstrating that in a pre-clinical
model a single dose of an ORT-VAC based vaccine can
protect against a lethal plague challenge.
Regulatory Environment
Cobra’s major source of income is from the supply of drugs
for clinical evaluation. In order to assure patient safety, the
manufacture of commercially marketed pharmaceutical
products is governed by a code of Good Manufacturing
Practice referred to as cGMP. Under the EU Clinical Trials
Directive enacted in July 2004, products for all clinical
evaluation must also be manufactured under full cGMP.
These standards must be met regardless of the subsequent
regulatory destination of the products manufactured and
compliance to these standards can account for more than
50% of the manufacturing cost. During 2005 I am pleased to
report that Cobra’s Keele and Oxford facilities underwent a
comprehensive review by the GMP Inspectorate of the UK
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
(MHRA), and our licences were subsequently reaccredited for
the manufacture of all major types of biopharmaceutical.
Outlook for Cobra’s Services
Our market is small to medium sized public and well
established private biotechnology companies, which do not
possess the specialised manufacturing capacity required to
develop their products. Cobra is now working with several
companies whose products are showing much promise in the
clinic and the expectation is that these products will be
rapidly commercialised. Our corporate objective is to become
a manufacturing partner of these companies as their
products approach and gain regulatory approval.
A major step in Cobra’s development in 2005 was the
agreement with Auxilium Pharmaceuticals Inc on the
manufacture of their lead development product for Phase III
clinical trials (penultimate to commercialisation) and a long
term commercial manufacturing agreement with Advaxis
Inc. These agreements are an indication of how Cobra is
making progress towards its corporate goal of becoming a
major manufacturer of marketed biopharmaceutical
products.
Dr David Thatcher
Chief Executive
10 January 2006
60011 Cobra Report & Accs 2005  27/1/06  5:19 pm  Page 4
