 Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 3
Chief Executive’s Review
Financial year 2006 was a period of impressive progress for
Cobra.  Whilst increasing revenue to a record £10.1m (2005:
£7.7m) and moving back into profit, Cobra completed the
largest reorganisation we have ever undertaken. This
initiative has included the creation of separate research,
process science and manufacturing departments and a major
upgrade to our quality systems; thus positioning Cobra to
provide a higher level of excellence for our customers and
further our evolution towards becoming a major supplier to
the pharmaceutical industry. 
Much of this change has been fuelled by increasingly
stringent manufacturing quality standards which have been
spearheaded by the MHRA’s (the UK’s pharmaceutical
regulator) attitude to the implementation of the EU Clinical
Trials Directive which only recognises a single manufacturing
standard for all phases of clinical development and
commercial manufacture.  Our success in managing these
changes was shown this year by the completion of Cobra’s
first Phase III contract, a milestone in our history and a
remarkable achievement for the process science,
manufacturing and quality departments. The process
development and scale up programme was carried out in
record time and enabled our customer to initiate pivotal trials
in November 2006, nine months after scale up work began.
The process science department developed an efficient and
robust production process for this protein product from
scratch, enabling the customer to announce their plans for
product launch and commercial supply.
As well as consolidating our position as a protein
manufacturer, 2006 saw the potential for real growth in our
virus manufacturing business and in particular, the initiation
of a large contract with International Aids Vaccine Initiative
and GSK Biologicals (Belgium) (IAVI/GSK). This project involves
the manufacture of an HIV vaccine based on genetically
engineered chimpanzee adenovirus; a groundbreaking
technology. The selection of Cobra as lead manufacturer
recognises our track record in tackling the most challenging
projects in the industry. 
During 2006 we initiated further capital investment in our
Oxford Facility in order to enable multiple commercial scale
manufactures of virus product in three bioreactor suites.
Additionally, we constructed a further building adjacent to
the Oxford Facility to house a central storage area, additional
meeting rooms and offices for the quality department. This
investment now positions our Oxford Facility as an
international centre of excellence for large scale GMP
manufacture of virus products and for significant revenue
growth in 2007. In April 2006 we also expanded and
strengthened the US sales team with the appointment of a
sales executive in Washington DC; Cobra now has
representation close to all the major North American biotech
hubs.
Cobra continues to develop its technology base through
investment in research and development. We are
collaborating with the US Navy on a vaccine for malaria using
our proprietary oral vaccine technology ORT-VAC. The US
Navy is a major player in malaria vaccine research and is able
to bring with it significant development resources to validate
this technology. During the year Cobra was awarded a broad
patent on the ORT-VAC vaccine technology which along with
our granted patents in the USA and other major territories
gives us excellent coverage and an exciting opportunity to
gain value through out-licensing. In addition, the Group has
had a number of patents granted related to DNA
manufacture and we also acquired certain patents from
Valentis Inc., consolidating our leading position in ORT, the
antibiotic free manufacture of biopharmaceuticals in
genetically engineered micro-organisms.
We have entered the new year with the contracted forward
order book at a historic high of £6.0m and a real opportunity
to maximise the return on investment. Financial year 2006
was a record year in several respects and it is a credit to the
energy and commitment of our staff that made this year a
success against the background of rapid change within Cobra.  
Dr David Thatcher
Chief Executive
9 January 2007
Cobra signs manufacturing agreement with IAVI/GSK
for two HIV vaccine candidates
May 2006 Up 20% to £6.0m (Jan 2006: £5.0m)
Contracted Forward Order Book FY 2007
making tomorrow’s medicines
62235 Cobra Report 2006  25/1/07  17:53  Page 3
