 Cobra Biomanufacturing Plc 4
Chief Executive’s Statement
Contracted Order Book
Cobra has made significant progress this year, despite operating
in a very competitive market and a tough financial climate. Our
track record and reputation in the market resulted in 12 new
customers this year, in addition to winning repeat business from
our existing customers to increase the secured contracted order
book by 17% to £11m
(1)
(18 January 2008 £9.4m), £7.7m of
which is scheduled for the current financial year (18 January
2008: £6.0m). 
The contracted order book includes the payments that we will
receive under the variation agreed with GenVec, Inc to place
their contract on hold until 30 June 2009, as announced in the
trading statement on 23 March 2009, but excludes any
remaining revenue from the existing contract until we get
confirmation from the customer that they wish to either
continue or terminate. 
Nothwithstanding, the secured order book now has a broader
base of both European and North American clients than in
previous years and reflects the strength of Cobra’s reputation in
the biopharmaceutical contract manufacturing market and
confirms the potential for further growth within the sector. 
Management Focus
During the year we focused upon keeping costs to a minimum,
maximising working capital and improving the Group’s
operating efficiencies. 
We are also looking into ways of expanding Cobra’s capacity for
the manufacture of mammalian cell secreted proteins which is
the biggest sector of the market, as well as developing our
strength in the production of viral therapeutic products. 
We will continue to target other potential customers requiring
long term manufacturing agreements for viral based products
to reduce our reliance on short term supply contracts for clinical
material and thereby introduce more revenue predictability to
the business.
Revenue
The shape of the business continued to progress through 2008
with an increase in the number of contracts from European
customers including the UK and Cobra’s first major success in
Asia with the signing of two contracts with ViroMed Co Limited
in South Korea.
Revenue from our North American customers was still
predominant in 2008, but fell to £3.5m (2007: £6.0m) or 50% of
the total (2007: 65%) as our contract composition changed in
the year. Revenue from European based customers (including
the UK) provided £2.9m (2007: £3.0m), 41% of the total (2007:
33%) and revenue from the Rest of the World grew to £0.6m
(2007: £0.2m), or 9% of the total (2007: 2%). The increase in the
global spread of Cobra’s business provides for a more robust
future with less reliance on a single market.
Protein based revenue fell to £2.4m (2007: £4.3m), 34% of the
total (2007: 47%), primarily due to our limited capacity for
bacterial derived proteins. We have however, through a more
focused marketing effort been successful in winning a number
of significant contracts for mammalian cell derived proteins and
this will be reflected in future results. Virus based revenues were
£2.4m (2007: £2.8m), 34% of the total (2007: 30%) maintaining
Cobra’s position as a leading supplier in this market, with the
remaining revenue split between DNA with £1.7m (2007: £1.8m)
and Cell Line work of £0.5m (2007 £0.3m).
Growth of the Business
We have identified that the production of mammalian cell
secreted proteins is an area of the business that will provide
significant growth opportunities as demonstrated by the
number of contracts signed in 2008.  These products lend
themselves to manufacture using new disposable technologies,
which will reduce costs, increase our operating efficiency and
increase our capacity. 
In addition, Cobra is one of the few contract manufacturing
organisations capable of manufacturing commercial quantities
of regulatory compliant viral based products.
As part of the geographical expansion of the business and in line
with the opportunities in Asia, we have appointed an agent in
Japan to enable Cobra to focus significant effort on the rapidly
growing Japanese biologics market at a low cost entry level.
Outlook
I would like to thank all the staff at Cobra for their hard work,
expertise and dedication over the past year, all of which has
resulted in another record order book. A new CEO invariably
means change, and I would also like to thank the Board, the
management team and all the staff for their support and active
involvement in introducing changes to enable Cobra to
compete efficiently in the difficult financial climate faced by the
industry as a whole.  We will continue to fight for long term
development and manufacturing relationships and strategic
partnerships that will provide more predictable revenues and
opportunities to expand the business.
Simon Saxby
Chief Executive
25 March 2009
