 2 Cohort plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
I am pleased to announce this maiden set of results for Cohort plc 
since listing on AIM in March 2006. Cohort has traded in accordance 
with our expectations at ﬂ otation.
KEY FINANCIALS
In the year ended 30 April 2006, Cohort achieved turnover of £18.0m 
(2005: £14.6m) representing a 23% increase on the level achieved by 
Systems Consultants Services Limited (SCS), Cohort’s sole operating 
subsidiary, in 2005.
Group operating proﬁ t before accounting for the share of joint ventures 
and exceptional items was £1.8m (2005: £2.0m). This reduction was 
due primarily to an increase in staff costs as new revenue generating 
personnel and support staff were recruited to manage the increased 
scale of the business, provide a base for further expansion and meet 
the reporting and governance requirements of a public company.
Proﬁ t before interest and tax was £1.3m (2005: £1.6m), after accounting 
for the Group’s share of joint venture losses and exceptional items 
in relation to venture capital activities of £467k (2005: £401k).
As a private company , SCS had invested in some venture capital activities. 
At ﬂ otation, the decision was taken to provide fully for the maximum 
commitment to these activities so that Cohort could go forward 
on a ﬁ rm ﬁ nancial and strategic basis.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 3 Cohort plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
The proﬁ t after tax and before share of joint ventures and exceptional 
items was £1.3m (2005: £1.5m). Proﬁ t after interest and before tax 
was £1.4m (2005: £1.6m) and proﬁ t after tax was £0.9m (2005: £1.1m). 
Basic earnings per share were 5.47 pence (2005: 6.97 pence).
The Cohort cash balance at year end was £5.6m, reﬂ ecting primarily 
the proceeds of the share placing net of costs.
DIVIDENDS
The Group plans to pay an initial dividend of 0.4 pence, being approximately 
one third of the dividend which would have been paid had the Company’s 
shares traded publicly for the whole of the ﬁ nancial year. This will 
be payable on 6 September 2006 to shareholders on the register at 
4 August 2006 subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 31 August 2006. The Group plans to follow a progressive dividend 
policy in future and to pay interim and ﬁ nal dividends in respect of 
the current ﬁ nancial year in March and September 2007.
BOARD AND PERSONNEL
We were pleased to welcome Simon Walther , who joined as Finance Director 
in May 2006. Simon has experience in the defence industry and in mergers 
and acquisitions as well as in the ﬁ nance function in a quoted company 
environment. This has released Andrew Thomis, who handled the ﬁ nance 
function during the listing, to concentrate on his intended roles in strategic 
and business development.
The new Board of Cohort, brought together speciﬁ cally to pursue the 
strategy of ﬂ otation followed by expansion, both organic and through 
acquisition in the defence technical services market, has bedded 
in well. The operating team under Stanley Carter is busy and productive 
and the transition from a private to a quoted company environment 
is being well handled. Whilst Stanley is in the day to day charge of the 
business, I am spending signiﬁ cant time with the Company, particularly 
in relation to acquisitions and business development.
OUTLOOK
Cohort’s business is at present largely concentrated in the UK defence 
market. In overall terms the market is reasonably stable but growth 
is concentrated in certain areas. The view set out at the time of ﬂ otation, 
namely that the provision of independent technical services to the 
UK Ministry of Defence (MOD) and industry is one such growth 
area, has been borne out by the many customer contact meetings 
which have been held since March. SCS has a strong business 
model and we will continue to push for organic growth. At the 
same time we will seek complementary acquisitions of businesses 
which can benefit from the Cohort group concept.
Overall the Board is positive about the outlook.
NICK PREST CBE
CHAIRMAN
