 4 Cohort plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
The formation of Cohort, whose sole trading subsidiary is currently 
Systems Consultants Services (SCS), and its listing on AIM in March 
this year marked another successful year for SCS. It led to changes 
in the composition of the SCS Board and other senior posts and placed 
increased demands on SCS senior management. Despite the potentially 
unsettling effect common in these circumstances, SCS achieved 
a creditable 23% growth in revenue and 17% in gross proﬁ t. Employee 
response to the change in status of SCS and to the staff changes 
has been very positive and is reﬂ ected by the high take-up of shares 
and the SAYE share option scheme in June 2006. This augurs well 
for the continuing organic growth of SCS.
Notable contract awards won in competition during the year include: 
a year’s contract as part of a five year support agreement to the 
Joint Warfare Training Centre with SCS heading a consortium of EDS 
Defence and Titan; a two year exclusive agreement to provide support 
to the NATO Consultation, Command and Control Agency in the Hague 
with SCS heading a consortium of six companies; SCS’s key membership 
of a consortium of QinetiQ, Thales and others to provide human 
factors support in an exclusive pan-MOD agreement and SCS winning, 
with Roke Manor, an urban warﬁ ghting research support contract with 
the MOD Research Acquisition Agency. SCS continues to play a central 
role in two major Network Enabled Capability programmes: 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 5 Cohort plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
the Land Environment Air Picture and the Joint Effects Tactical 
Targeting System in consortiums headed by Lockheed Martin 
and Raytheon respectively. Another notable contract was won 
to support the National Audit Office study into a major defence 
communications programme. The Company is alert to opportunities 
to apply its expertise in non-defence areas and was awarded a contract 
to supply crisis management advice to a cruise liner operator.
The recent and continuing trends to integrate and consolidate in the 
wider defence market have included the absorption of some private 
technical advisory businesses by major international defence suppliers. 
This has led to a signiﬁ cant reduction in the availability of impartial 
and independent technical advice available to the MOD and correspondingly 
increased opportunities to companies remaining in the ﬁ eld. Also the MOD 
has declared an intention to compete in future much of the research work 
historically mandated to QinetiQ, which will result in opportunities both 
in the research programme itself and in related advisory work. At the same 
time the sustained high levels of operational commitment of HM Forces 
coupled with a natural “front-line ﬁ rst” policy is tending to leave gaps 
in military technical posts in the MOD, which is already having to cope 
with reduced technical support arising from the signiﬁ cant reduction 
of the scientiﬁ c civil service brought about by privatisation. All of these 
factors have beneﬁ ted the Group and will continue to do so in the future.
I am conﬁ dent that the comprehensive, ﬁ rst-hand defence market 
knowledge and experience of the Cohort team make it well able 
to recognise and respond to these and future trends and to meet 
the increasing need for independent technical advice and support.
STANLEY CARTER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
