 Cohort plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 04
Summary of Chief Executive’s review
  Acquisition of MASS
  Continued strong growth from SCS
  Senior appointments to subsidiary Boards
  Further investment in infrastructure
I am pleased to report that Cohort’s ﬁrst full year of trading has continued 
the successful trend of last year. The Group has been significantly 
expanded and strengthened with the acquisition of MASS and continued 
strong growth from SCS. In the year ended 30 April 2007, Cohort achieved 
Group turnover of £34.4m (2006: £17.8m) and operating proﬁt before 
goodwill amortisation and share-based payments of £3.0m (2006: £1.8m). 
MASS
Based in Cambridgeshire with an electronic warfare facility in 
Lincolnshire, MASS was founded in 1983. It is well known in the ﬁeld 
of electronic warfare, secure communications and associated specialist 
managed services. In the nine months since acquisition, MASS exceeded 
our expectations turning over £12.3m with an operating proﬁt of £1.3m, 
a very good performance. Andy Thomis was appointed as Managing 
Director of MASS on 1 May 2007. The previous post holder had retired 
on acquisition by mutual agreement; the other three executive directors 
remain in post. Employee response to the change in status of MASS and 
to the staff changes has been very positive and augurs well for the 
continuing organic growth of MASS.
A particularly important achievement during the year was the award 
to MASS of a £5.8m contract for electronic warfare operational support 
(EWOS) services to an export customer. This conﬁrms MASS’s position 
as a leading international EWOS provider and the Company continues 
to pursue further major prospects in this area. MASS continues to invest 
in the next generation of electronic warfare databases. This is a strategic 
decision by the Group to ensure its continuing critical role in support of 
the UK’s electronic warfare capability and its expanding role in overseas 
EWOS support and development work.
Good progress was made on SCA, a £9m contract to design and 
manufacture a number of airborne secure communication systems 
for the RAF . After the year-end an amendment was received increasing 
the value of the SCA contract by approximately £0.9m, extending the 
duration to 2009.
MASS continues to support OFCOM to assess radio spectrum quality in the 
UK, using our unique digital signal processing techniques and measuring 
equipment. Opportunities are being pursued to provide similar services 
to other users in the UK and overseas. 
MASS continued to perform well on its managed service contracts 
with the MOD’s Strategic Systems Integrated Project Team (IPT) and 
the Air Warfare Centre. A number of possible paths have been identiﬁed 
to grow these activities in future.
Chief Executive’s review
12_COH_ar07_front.indd   4 23/07/2007   10:32:18 Cohort plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
SCS
SCS continued to grow strongly: turnover £22.1m, 24% above 2006, 
operating proﬁt £2.3m, 19% above 2006. Further investment has been 
made in SCS’s infrastructure to support the continued top line growth. 
This investment will continue into 2008 with an improved management 
information system for SCS. Rick Bounsall took over as Managing Director 
of SCS from me on 1 May 2007. Rick, a Royal Artillery brigadier , has held 
senior appointments in the MOD involving major equipment programmes 
for the past six years and, most recently, has led the £2.5 billion Bowman 
communications programme. 
James Campbell, formerly Head of Capability and Support Division, 
has been appointed Operations Director . The two non-executive directors, 
John Tydeman and Michael Russell have resigned in accordance with Group 
policy not to have non-executive directors on subsidiary boards. I take 
this opportunity to thank both of them for their invaluable support over 
many years. Further management changes have been made by grouping 
the former six business areas and one division into four divisions, each 
with a divisional head.
Notable contract awards won in competition during the year include: 
  Support to the Defence Infrastructure IPT and the ATLAS Consortium; 
  A key Defence Logistics IS project (JAMES) and the MOD’s 
experimental workshop NITEworks; and
  the Integration Authority and signiﬁcant training tasks for 
the Permanent Joint Headquarters as part of our ongoing 
ﬁve year contract. 
SCS has worked throughout the year with UK Land Command on numerous 
tasks as well as assisting Defence Estates and the Defence Logistic 
Organisation. Contributions to new equipment capabilities include: work 
on the Army’s proposed new medium weight armoured vehicle project 
(FRES) and follow-up work for the RAF’s Joint Combat Aircraft. 
SCS is a key member of Lockheed Martin’s Team Athena for the provision 
of the Land Environment Air Picture Programme (LEAPP), and Raytheon’s 
team on the Joint Effects Tactical Targeting System (JETTS) and is heavily 
involved in the Network Enabled Air Defence System (NEADS). 
Beyond the UK, SCS has continued to lead an industrial consortium 
contracted to NATO’s NC3 Agency and has established a growing 
reputation with the World Lottery Association as a Security and Risk 
Advisor. This includes winning a contract from a Chinese lottery for 
audit work and teaming with Sugal & Damani in their bid for the next 
UK Lottery Licence.
Organisation
The demands on Cohort’s senior management grew following ﬂotation 
and the acquisition of MASS. The appointment of new Managing Directors 
at MASS and SCS has freed me to focus more on Group matters and 
acquisitions. Organisationally, the Cohort Board will remain tight, 
overseeing a Group Executive Committee which I will chair . This comprises 
the Executive members of the Cohort Board and the Managing Directors of 
the subsidiaries.
Market
The factors in the wider defence market have changed little from those 
I reported last year , with continuing trends to integrate and consolidate. 
The demand from the MOD for impartial and independent technical 
advice remains strong. The high level of operational commitment of HM 
Forces, coupled with a natural “front-line ﬁrst” policy, continues to leave 
gaps in military technical posts in the MOD, which is already having to 
cope with reduced technical support arising from the signiﬁcant reduction 
of the scientiﬁc civil service brought about by privatisation. These factors 
have beneﬁted the Group and are expected to continue in the future.
I am conﬁdent that the wide ranging and complementary expertise 
we are building into the Cohort Group make it well positioned to 
continue to grow, both organically and through acquisition to meet 
the increasing need for independent technical advice and support.
A E Stanley Carter
Chief Executive
The wide ranging and complementary expertise we are building into 
the Cohort Group make it well positioned to continue to grow, both 
organically and through acquisition.
”
“
12_COH_ar07_front.indd   5 23/07/2007   10:32:18
