 04
Cohort plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Cohort’s trading this year has continued 
the successful trend of last year. All three 
companies have achieved record annual 
revenues	and	profits.
In	the	year	ended	30	 April	2009,	Cohort	
achieved Group revenue of £78.6m 
( 2 0 0 8 : 	 £ 5 7 . 1 m ) 	 a n d 	 a n 	 a d j u s t e d 	 o p e r a t i n g	
p r o fi t 	 o f 	 £ 8 . 1 m 	 ( 2 0 0 8 : 	 £ 6 . 1 m ) , 	 r e fl e c t i n g 	 a	
full year of trading for all three subsidiaries.
Group overview
Cohort is an independent group whose 
constituent companies provide a wide range 
of technical advice, support and managed 
services and certain niche products, 
characterised by high tech design and 
low volume manufacture. It provides 
an environment in which companies can 
develop and continue to grow whilst retaining 
a high degree of autonomy and deriving 
benefit	from	being	part	of	the	wider	Group.	
We continue to seek opportunities to acquire 
complementary businesses. These may be 
either large enough to operate as an 
additional member within the Group or 
smaller businesses that can be integrated 
with one of the existing members.
Cohort’s well established businesses have 
continued to expand successfully through 
a combination of innovation, responsiveness 
and agility. Building from their core markets 
of defence and security, Cohort companies 
now provide technology and services in such 
markets as space, transport and offshore 
t e c h n o l o g y . 	 I n 	 a n 	 u n c e r t a i n 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 c l i m a t e ,	
this diversity both across the Group and 
within the individual companies, coupled 
with the ability to keep well abreast of 
and sometimes lead technology, enables 
us to respond quickly to market needs. 
W e	are	confident	the	Group	is	well	placed	
to continue to grow both organically, as 
demonstrated this year and by acquisition.
Trading subsidiaries
MASS
MASS	Consultants	Limited	(MASS)	is	an	
independent systems house with a strong 
defence focus, including the design and 
manufacture of niche technology products.
Based	in	St	Neots	near	Cambridge	with	an	
electronic	warfare	facility	in	Lincoln,	MASS	
was	founded	in	1983.	It	is	well	known	in	
the	field	of	electronic	warfare,	secure	
communications and associated specialist 
managed services.
Ashley	Lane,	Managing	Director	of	MASS	and	
the	two	other	directors,	including	Malcolm	
Lowes,	a	founder	of	MASS,	have	remained	
in	post	since	the	acquisition	in	 August	2006.
MASS	has	had	a	strong	year ,	securing	a	niche	
position with a number of prime contracts 
in	being	a	first	choice	systems	house	for	
outsourced technologically demanding design 
and	development.	MASS	continued	to	support	
its key managed service customers in the 
United	K ingdom	MOD	and	overseas.
In	Electronic	W arfare	(EW),	MASS	continued	
to	develop	its	own	EW	database	(Thurbon)	
and secured strategically important support 
from Saab for developing Thurbon to support 
the Gripen combat aircraft EW system.
Chief Executive’s Report
Stanley Carter Co-Chairman
Andrew Thomis Chief Executive
“ the Group remains agile and responsive 
to the needs of its customers. Cohort 
continues to exploit its position in 
key niche markets where customer 
need and focus remains high.” 05
Cohort plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
MASS	finished	the	year	by	being	selected	
as preferred bidder to provide the ICT 
implementation and managed service for 
North	Lincolnshire’ s	Building	Schools	for	
the Future programme. This programme 
should be on contract in the late summer. 
MASS	enters	an	important	year	with	
the renewal of its UKSF managed service 
provision and its part in the development 
of the United Kingdom’s new EW database 
as key objectives.
SCS
Systems	Consultants	Services	Limited	(SCS)	
is an independent technical advisory and 
managed service business operating primarily 
in the defence and security sectors. Its 
personnel have the appropriate technical 
expertise combined with practical experience 
of its application in the user domain. Over 
70%	of	its	employees	have	served	in	the	
Armed Forces.
Based in Henley-on-Thames, SCS was founded 
in	1992	and	has	consistently	grown	year	on	
year .	2008/9	was	no	exception,	with	another	
near	20%	growth	in	revenue.
Notable	contract	awards	during	the	year	
included winning the re-competition of 
the United Kingdom Land Command 
Brigade	Mission	R ehearsal	exercises,	
training	provision	to	the	R oyal	Saudi	 Air	
Force, technical and procurement support 
to	the	P olice	National	CBRN	Centre	and,	
along	with	MASS	and	SEA,	forming	part	
of the team leading a key United Kingdom 
MOD	concept	study .
Over the last few years SCS has invested in 
its internal system and business development 
resource. These investments have now begun 
to	show	a	return,	with	19%	revenue	growth	
driving	profit	growth	of	over	40%	this	year ,	
much of it from higher utilisation of core staff. 
SEA
SEA 	(Group)	Limited	(SEA)	is	an	independent	
systems engineering and software company 
operating in the defence, space, transport 
and	off-shore	markets.	Founded	in	1988,	
it is based in Beckington near Frome, 
S o m e r s e t 	 with	further	offices	close	to	the	
main	United	K ingdom	MOD	establishment	
in	Bristol.	During	the	year	SEA ’ s	sales	grew	
by	18%	over	the	equivalent	period	for	2008,	
producing	a	record	profit	for	the	business.
SEA continued to develop its offering in defence, 
securing a number of key programmes in its 
traditional 	 maritime 	 markets, 	 including 	 DAR T 	
and an underwater detection system for the 
French	Navy .	In	other	defence	areas,	SEA 	
continued to lead on a number of land based 
research programmes, which have the potential 
to pull through our own technology, as well 
as securing a software simulation programme 
for land based training and simulation. 
In the space market, SEA continued 
to progress its broad band radiometer 
instrument for the European Space Agency’s 
Earth	Care	Mission	as	well	as	securing	
elements of a number of other programmes 
including the European Sentinel 3 mission.
In transport, SEA successfully launched its 
R oadflow product with sales to a number 
of local authorities in the United Kingdom. 
Prospects for the product going forward look 
promising and SEA continues to develop both 
the	R oadflow product and its wider offering 
in 	 the 	 area 	 of 	 traffic 	 enforcement.
Outlook
Against an uncertain international and 
economic background, the Group remains agile 
and responsive to the needs of its customers. 
Cohort continues to exploit its position in 
key niche markets where customer need and 
focus remains high. The Group is diverse and 
is in a good business position with a strong 
order	book.	W e	are	confident	that	the	wide	
ranging and complementary expertise and 
capabilities we have in the Cohort Group 
make it well positioned to continue to grow, 
both organically and through acquisition, 
to meet changing market needs.
Stanley Carter 
Co-Chairman  
Chief	Executive	to	24	May	2009
Andrew Thomis
Chief	Executive	from	25	May	2009
