 Collagen Solutions plc Annual report and accounts 2014
I am pleased to present Collagen 
Solutions’ maiden annual report and 
accounts as a publicly listed company. 
Since being admitted to the AIM market 
of the London Stock Exchange as 
Healthcare Investment Opportunities plc 
in April 2013, we made our first strategic 
acquisition in the healthcare sector 
following a review and assessment of 
thirty different proposals in the fields 
of in-vitro diagnostics, biopharma, 
biomaterials, medical devices and 
software. The criteria used to evaluate 
the proposals included whether 
the target was or had:
 – revenue or near revenue generating;
 – capable of generating embedded 
or protected IP;
 – UK-based;
 – capable of significant growth 
potential; or
 – a capable management team.
The acquisition of Collbio Limited 
and Collagen Solutions LLC, in 
the Board’s view, met the key criteria 
above. The acquisition was approved 
by shareholders on 27 December 2013 
and the ordinary shares exchanged 
in relation to this transaction were 
admitted to AIM on 2 January 2014.
It involved combining businesses in the 
UK and USA, and provides the Company 
with a management team with extensive 
contacts, that has previously worked 
together servicing the medical devices 
industry, and which has the ability 
to generate long-term revenues and 
opportunities through investment 
and strategic input from the Board. 
The objective is to build a significant 
global biomaterials business by 
assisting customers in expediting 
the transition of their products from 
development through to manufacture 
by the provision of cost-effective, 
functional collagen materials and 
devices, across a range of clinical 
indications, for the ultimate benefit 
of providing effective and affordable 
treatment to patients.
Overview
The enlarged Group has only been 
trading for a relatively short period. 
However we are pleased to report that 
some of the key foundation stones 
have been laid in terms of creating 
long-term shareholder value.
In particular I would draw your 
attention to the following: 
 – The management teams in Glasgow 
and San Jose have been integrated 
and are working effectively as a 
cohesive unit.
 – The appointment of Gill Black 
as Chief Financial Officer.
 – The technology transfer of the 
first product from San Jose to 
GMP contract manufacturing 
in Glasgow is well underway.
 – We have made significant advances 
in our work with one of our partners, 
Jellagen, on the processing of jellyfish 
into vector-free collagen.
Chairman’s statement
Summary
 – In January 2014, we made 
our first strategic acquisition 
in the healthcare sector
 – Licence agreement signed with 
UCL for polymeric collagen
 – We are looking to develop strong 
collaborative partnerships with 
key players in the regenerative 
medicine space
‘‘
The enlarged Group has only been trading 
for three months; however, the key foundation 
stones have been laid in terms of creating 
long-term shareholder value.
4 Collagen Solutions plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
5
 – The licence agreement with UCL, 
signed in June 2014, for polymeric 
collagen accesses a breakthrough 
platform technology for the 
production of stronger, more durable, 
living collagen-based “tissues”.
We have set ourselves a target by 
2020 to create a biomaterials business 
with a value of £100 million through 
a combination of organic growth and 
exploitation of licensed IP, as well as 
through appropriate acquisitions, and 
we look forward to that journey, having 
already made some significant progress.
Results
The Group’s results for the period 
ended 31 March 2014 are set out 
in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. Revenue for 
the first three months’ trading was 
a nominal £24,023. Administrative 
expenses (before separately identifiable 
items) were £303,647, reflecting the 
costs of operating a public company 
and the related regulatory costs. Selling 
and marketing costs were £71,914. 
LBITDA (before separately identifiable 
costs) were (£388,269) and the loss 
per share was (1.1p).
Net cash used in operations during 
the period was £524,839, net cash used 
in investing activities was £1,357,278 
and net cash flow from financing 
activities was £3,373,777. The Group’s 
cash balances at 31 March 2014 
were £1,491,660.
As highlighted in my opening 
paragraphs, the acquisition of Collbio 
Limited and Collagen Solutions LLC 
was approved by shareholders on 
27 December 2013 and the ordinary 
shares exchanged in relation to the 
transaction were admitted to AIM 
on 2 January 2014. The passage of six 
days has given rise to an additional 
amount of goodwill of £466,250 shown 
in the accounts, reflecting the increase 
in the share price from 27 December 
(12.5p) to 2 January (14.5p), the date 
on which control technically passed.
Dividend
Due to the loss incurred for 
the period since incorporation, 
no dividends are payable.
Board and management
On the acquisition of Collbio Limited, 
Dr Stewart White was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer of the Group. 
Stewart has significant experience of 
the biomaterials space and has a clear 
strategic vision to build the Company 
into a major player in the industry.
In early March, Gill Black was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer and Company 
Secretary. Gill has considerable 
experience of working with early stage 
companies and also those within a 
manufacturing environment.
On the acquisition of Collagen 
Solutions LLC, the founders Jacci 
Burgin and Diane Mitchell became key 
members of the management team, 
as Chief Scientific Officer and Chief 
Commercial Officer respectively. They 
both have extensive knowledge and 
contacts within the industry and 
are also significant shareholders 
in the Company.
I am very pleased to see the team 
gel and work together as a cohesive 
unit under Stewart’s leadership. 
The challenge will be as we grow 
to retain that sense of purpose 
and camaraderie.
Outlook
The year 2014/15 will see a continued 
investment in people and facilities 
as we continue to expand our sales 
pipeline. We are looking to develop 
strong collaborative partnerships 
with key players in the regenerative 
medicine space, and we have seen 
since the year end the first product 
being transferred from our core 
R&D facility in San Jose to our 
manufacturing unit in Glasgow.
We are recognised within the industry 
for the quality of the materials that we 
produce, and our ability to do that within 
a GMP environment. That gives me 
confidence that our long-term revenue 
generation is secure as those revenues 
are effectively embedded into our 
customers’ products. What is more 
difficult to judge, is the exact timing 
of such revenues as our customers take 
their products through to launch and 
beyond. We have yet to reach a critical 
mass of manufactured products and 
we see this happening by the end 
of 2015, unless we see value-adding 
opportunities to shorten this timescale.
We are looking to continue to leverage 
opportunities to develop and exploit IP, 
and I will update you later on in the year 
as we formalise such arrangements. 
This investment will come from our 
existing resources.
Your Group is one of the most 
innovative and exciting that I have ever 
been involved in, and I see the ability to 
secure significant value accretion in a 
relatively low-risk manner, by adopting 
a portfolio approach with regard to 
development for our customers and 
ensuring our revenues are secured 
long term by taking that from R&D 
through to manufacturing.
Thank you for your support.
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman
9 July 2014
See page 14 for our financial review
