 Collagen Solutions plc Annual report and accounts 2014
I am pleased to report that all parts 
of the Group have integrated well in 
the relatively short period since the 
acquisition. The reported pre-tax loss 
of £479,998 is after charging separately 
identifiable items relating to acquisition 
costs of £74,769. The Group’s cash 
position remains strong at £1.49 million, 
which is sufficient for ongoing funding 
requirements of the Group and its 
planned investment in manufacturing 
and research and development.
Operational trading
Revenue has come from both 
development work and direct 
sales of existing collagen products. 
We believe the continued interest 
from new customers is due to an 
appreciation for the historic, and 
now combined, capabilities, but also 
reflects that the market recognises 
the value offering of the newly formed 
Collagen Solutions plc Group.
A number of customers are well 
advanced through the regulatory 
approval process for their own 
products, which contain our 
embedded collagen formulations 
or components. The Group has 
considerable experience of supporting 
customers through such regulatory 
processes with notified bodies or 
competent authorities and this is a 
bespoke service which we provide. 
When contributing to customers’ 
development requirements, it is 
always our intention to establish 
long-term partnerships with the 
aim of providing an increased scale 
of production or indeed contract 
manufacturing of the finished device. 
Our relationship with T axus Cardium 
Pharmaceuticals, is an excellent 
example of this. 
In order to provide materials 
and components into a regulated 
industry we must continue to make 
investment in our manufacturing base. 
Such investments will ensure we not 
only have the correct capabilities and 
capacities our customers require, but 
also that we ensure we retain our ISO 
13485 and ISO 22442 certifications. 
Notified body approval of our Quality 
Management System, and thereby 
extension, our own suppliers, is 
critical to demonstrate the safety 
and traceability of materials we supply 
and the production processes we carry 
out. Maintaining such systems and 
processes takes significant resources 
and of course the commitment from 
our dedicated team.
Our extensive research and 
development activities serve to 
demonstrate to customers that 
Collagen Solutions is committed to 
evolving by developing new collagen 
formulations which can be readily and 
quickly modified to meet customer 
requirements. As the Group responds 
to market forces, our development 
team will provide the know-how 
and innovation which will meet our 
customers’ expectations. We have 
a number of products undergoing 
development and proceeding through 
our design control process. We have 
been reviewing the market potential 
of these formulations and exploring 
the benefits and necessities of further 
regulatory approvals to expedite their 
use in our own devices. The value placed 
on our offering can be seen in the 
margins we can achieve on materials 
which are competitively priced.
Chief Executive’s statement
Summary
 – The Group’s cash position 
remains strong at £1.49 million
 – The Group has considerable 
experience of supporting 
customers through regulatory 
processes as a bespoke service
 – The strategic vision is being 
supported by the technology 
transfer from our US operation 
to full GMP manufacturing 
in the UK
‘‘
I share the Board’s view that there is a strong 
opportunity for the Group to be a global 
leading player in the biomaterials field.
6 Collagen Solutions plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
7
In addition to such direct commercial 
activities listed above, the Group is 
also open to closer collaborations. An 
example of this is the work being done 
with our strategic partner Jellagen Pty 
Ltd, in which we have a 10.5% interest. 
In this case the Group is providing 
development expertise to assist 
Jellagen to develop and move towards 
commercialising a range of novel 
jellyfish collagen-based products. 
Collbio and Collagen 
Solutions acquisitions
A key driver for acquiring Collbio 
Limited and Collagen Solutions LLC 
was the revenue synergies that could 
be achieved from combining the sales 
offerings of both development and 
manufacturing capabilities. These 
competencies, alongside our collegial 
approach will ensure that Collagen 
Solutions becomes a globally recognised 
centre of excellence in the chemistry, 
supply, development and manufacture 
of medical-grade collagen biomaterials. 
I am pleased to report that this 
strategic vision is being supported 
by the technology transfer, from our 
US operation to full GMP manufacturing 
in the UK, of material which we supply 
to a major medical device customer 
for use in their approved product, 
which is already available in the USA. 
Markets served
The Group is ideally positioned 
to have greater access to our 
main markets. We have a range 
of collagen-based products which 
typically have a common starting 
material or platform technology. 
Therefore, we can assess the potential 
of specific formulations and how they 
might be applied as reagents in in 
vitro diagnostics, for use in medical 
devices and as carriers or scaffolds 
for therapies in regenerative medicine 
and cellular therapies. Not only does 
the Group have the capability to 
supply different market segments, 
we can supply materials to a range 
of companies within each segment. 
That is, although the majority of our 
volume of materials is supplied for 
use in medical devices which require 
regulatory approval, we are active 
in multiple markets, with multiple 
customers using multiple collagen 
products, providing significant 
contingency in our business model. 
It should be noted for the initial 
three-month revenue-generating 
period, the directors consider, in 
view of the total volume generated 
through the sale of collagen products, 
that this comprised one operational 
segment for the purposes of 
segmental reporting.
Business development
Following the acquisition, the Group 
now has prime locations in the largest 
markets for value-added medical 
devices. Our facility in San Jose is ideally 
positioned to serve the North American 
markets and our manufacturing site in 
Glasgow, Scotland, is well placed within 
the UK to serve the European market. 
We expect this global reach to provide 
significant benefits moving forward, 
allowing the Group to benefit from 
available public sector support 
where possible, and to capitalise on 
the benefit of these locations for 
cost-effective conference and trade 
show attendance. In addition to typical 
business development activities, much 
of our business has been won through 
direct contacts. The team at Collagen 
Solutions has an extensive network 
across the industry and continues to 
utilise this to identify new opportunities.
Business development activities 
will continue to evolve, specifically, to 
investigate the potential to move into 
newer territories which will require the 
necessary skilled business development 
personnel to ensure we obtain rapid 
and meaningful traction.
Strategic risks and mitigation 
The combined entity provides medical-
grade collagen formulations for medical, 
diagnostics and research applications 
using specialised sourcing knowledge, 
relationships and agreements with 
a variety of leading suppliers of raw 
biomaterials. Our intentionally diversified 
approach on markets, products and 
customers, is key to supporting a robust 
strategy which we believe provides the 
contingency of a maximised number 
of opportunities, with least risk, and the 
greatest potential for shareholder return. 
Post-balance sheet events 
 – Retaining ISO 13485/ISO 22442 
certification for our manufacturing 
facility in Glasgow following 
external audit during April 2014.
 – Jellagen, our strategic partner, 
has secured the external funding 
required to undertake further 
research, with the aim of taking 
their products to market.
 – In May 2014, Professor Robert 
Brown, UCL, joined the Company as 
an exclusive consultant and an initial 
member of our Scientific Advisory 
Board. Professor Brown’s expertise 
will be invaluable in driving 
new and exciting product 
development activities.
 – In June 2014, a Licence Agreement 
was entered into with UCL, providing 
the Group with exclusive rights 
to commercialise a collagen 
formulation process which has 
been patented and already 
been granted in the USA.
Outlook/current trading
The next financial year will be a period of 
further consolidation when we continue 
to develop new revenue streams and 
work to exploit opportunities which 
will build value to the business. This will 
be in line with our strategic objectives 
to invest in the areas of Research and 
Development and Manufacturing in 
order to support our customers, 
win new business, and remain at the 
forefront of collagen biomaterials. 
Whilst we will strive to expand our 
direct sales, it is also likely we will 
look to work closely with an increased 
number of strategic partners who may 
have technology, facilities, know-how, 
distribution or market access 
that we can mutually exploit.
I share the Board’s view that there 
is a strong opportunity for the Group 
to be a global leading player in the 
biomaterials field.
Dr Stewart White
Chief Executive Officer
9 July 2014
See page 14 for our financial review
