 chairman’s statement report and accounts 2002
3
Chairman’s Statement
Results for 2002
In a challenging and successful year for the group I am pleased
to report for the year ended 31 December 2002 revenues of
£262.1m (2001: £236.1m), adjusted operating profits of
£25.2m
1
(2001: £26.0m), pre-tax profits of £12.9m (2001:
£6.7m), earnings per share of 4.9p (2001: 2.31p
3
) and adjusted
earnings per share
2
of 12.19p (2001: 13.75p
3
).
It is clear that the focus on customer service driven by our key
account initiatives, together with the benefits from the
reorganisation programmes undertaken in recent years, have
enabled communisis to maintain its competitiveness in difficult
market conditions and deliver these returns.
Evolution of the group
The communisis business has undergone significant change
in my time as Chairman, no more so than in this last
financial year. The acquisition of Centurion in May 2002 and
the winning of the Barclays print management contract have
been focal points of the year, demonstrating delivery of our
strategy of moving communisis to a more contractually-based
business.
communisis has a unique combination of world
class manufacturing facilities, excellent
customer service offerings and a proven
management team. communisis is now well
positioned to play a leading role in the
development of the print services industry.
The Board
This year the Board has been strengthened by the appointment
of Roger Jennings and Mike Firth as non-executive directors.
Roger is the Chief Executive of Austin Reed Group PLC and
previously he has held a number of senior management
appointments in consumer product companies and
international consultancy. Mike is a non-executive director of
Somerfield plc and has recently retired from his position as
Head of Corporate Banking at HSBC Bank plc.
Notes
1
Before amortisation of contract premium payment, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items.
2
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
3
Restated for the adoption of FRS19.
Aidan Hughes took on the role of Finance Director during the
year having previously held a non-executive position with
communisis and before that he was Finance Director of The
Sage Group plc. 
Mike Mitchell and John Hollowood retired from the Board
during 2002. They were formerly directors of Waddington PLC
at the time of its acquisition by communisis in 2000 and
subsequently joined the Board of communisis. In addition,
Andrew Lipinski resigned from the Board in 2002. The Board
would like to thank them for their contribution to the business. 
As previously announced, I shall be stepping down as
Chairman at the forthcoming AGM after more than five years
of considerable change in the group. I would like to take this
opportunity of thanking all those who have been involved for
their tremendous enthusiasm and dedication in the major
reshaping and development that has taken place. 
I am delighted that Mike Smith, the Chief Executive of The
Rank Group Plc, has agreed to join communisis as my
successor as Chairman. I feel confident that he will make a very
significant contribution to the further success of the group
during the next stages of its development.
Dividends
I am pleased to propose a final dividend of 2.933p per share
taking the proposed full year dividend to 4.4p (2002: 4.0p)
per share. Dividends will be paid, subject to shareholders’
approval, on 23 April 2003 to shareholders on the register at
the close of business on 21 March 2003.
Trading and outlook
We are pleased with the performance in 2002 and in particular
with the groundbreaking contract with Barclays. Despite
continuing uncertain market conditions our focus on
contractual business has improved the visibility of our trading
and gives us confidence for 2003.
Stuart Wallis
Chairman
