 communisis plc chief executive’s report
4
Chief Executive’s Report
2002 was a year of transformation for communisis with the acquisitions of
Centurion and the logistics operation in Leicester, the groundbreaking
five-year contracts with Barclays and the print management wins with
Sainsbury’s and Hutchison 3G.
communisis provides print solutions for its customers and the
£50 million per annum five-year contract with Barclays utilising
c-store is the UK market’s leading example. Barclays moved
from its traditional client/supplier relationships to a strategic
partnership with communisis for all its print solutions. Crucial
to this arrangement is Barclays’ adoption of c-store, the end-
to-end business workflow and document management system
developed by communisis. This is central to the delivery of
business efficiency and process savings within Barclays.
The acquisition of Centurion in May 2002 broadened
communisis’ print solutions offering into print management
and brought business with proven growth. The subsequent
contract wins with Sainsbury’s, worth £40 million, and
Hutchison 3G, and the encouraging pipeline of opportunities
going forward are evidence of the success of this acquisition.
It was Centurion’s strong relationship with Barclaycard that
helped communisis win the leading position with Barclays
Bank PLC.
communisis purchased the Response
Management Division of SR Communications
in October 2002. The business has since been
re-focused and re-launched as communisis
logistics, strengthening the group’s ability to
provide total project fulfilment as part of the
overall print solutions offering to major
customers. It is our intention to provide this
service to Barclays on a contractual basis
during 2003.
The past year has been difficult for manufacturing and order-
based business as price reductions more than offset any
volume gains and profitability was again supported by the cost
reduction initiatives of the past two years. In 2002 the contract
wins, such as Barclays and Sainsbury’s brought initial cost
rather than meaningful benefit to the year; their positive
impact will be felt in 2003. 
The year saw continued investment in our world class manu-
facturing resources including people training, quality processes
and systems to support the print solutions offering. Following
the greater emphasis on contractual business the group
developed a centralised resource for purchasing, planning and
supplier management. New contract wins will require
manufacturing resources beyond our in-house capacity.
Therefore it is critical to develop strategic supply arrangements
that work alongside our internal facilities. 
The objective of becoming the leading print solutions provider
to UK and Northern European markets will continue to be met
through the communisis key account programme. communisis’
growth strategy is customer specific using the group’s full
offering which now includes c-store, print management,
manufacturing and logistics. There is no equivalent competitive
offering for the markets which we serve.
Despite the difficult economic environment putting pressure
on prices and volumes of traditional manufacturers, we are
confident that communisis will continue to grow and on an
increasingly contractual basis. It will be growth that will
underpin improvement in profitability from both the service
and manufacturing ends of our business. chief executive’s report report and accounts 2002
5
Print Management
Print Management comprises communisis one – the home of c-store, Centurion –
acquired May 2002, Group Strategic Partnerships – Barclays contracts signed
November 2002 and communisis logistics – acquired October 2002.
The change in growth and margin potential of this business grouping reflects the mix
of businesses brought together to spearhead communisis’ development. In 2002 this
grouping had to absorb the cost of acquiring new contracts and the bespoking of
c-store for Barclays.
communisis one continues to provide digital asset management and creative agency
capabilities in support of key accounts. Its primary activity in 2002, however, was to
bring c-store to full development and begin the implementation into Barclays towards
the end of the year.
The Centurion acquisition has been highly successful for communisis and a vital
ingredient in the provision of print solutions to key customers. Anticipated growth
has continued with the Sainsbury’s and Hutchison contract wins confirming the
group’s strategy with its customers to be working effectively. 
The outlook remains encouraging with the contract pipeline expected to deliver
further wins in 2003. Print management will be promoted with customers in
Continental Europe in conjunction with the communisis Benelux operations.
A Group Strategic Partnerships business was formed during the year to manage larger
contractual clients where the fuller communisis print solutions offering is in place.
The Barclays print management partnership is now handled by this business following
the signing of a five-year contract which includes the implementation of c-store.
Many of communisis’ key people will be deployed with these partners. For example,
it is expected that in 2003 some 40 people will be working solely on Barclays, the
majority permanently on site at the bank’s major locations.
It is no exaggeration to state that the Barclays contract arrangement is ground-
breaking for the UK printing industry.
The acquisition of the business now called communisis logistics completes the
group’s offering to major clients from document origination through planning,
procurement and now to fulfilment. Increasingly, contract wins will include an
important element of warehousing and distribution to bank branches and retail
outlets. 
Print Management
2002 Turnover £m 55.7 4.8% ROS*
* Return on sales
9.1% ROS 2001 Turnover £m 5.0
In 2003, 700 Barclays staff will use the c-store
application named ‘fred’.
‘Barclays and communisis plc
entered into a five-year
contractual strategic partnership
for printing services in November
2002. This followed an exhaustive
print review and we are very
pleased to be working in
partnership with communisis
utilising their end-to-end
document management system.’
Ray Huntzinger, Head of Production,
Barclays Marketing Operations. communisis plc chief executive’s report
6
Personalised Products
Personalised Products is made up of direct marketing,
communisis chorleys and communisis broadprint, and
communisis security products.
Overall profits from these businesses improved in the year
with direct marketing slightly down, contributing £8.1m on
£77.6m of sales, being more than offset by the improvement
in security products, which contributed £7.3m on £33.4m of
sales.
In direct marketing communisis is the premium supplier of
direct mail and specialist print products in the UK. Targeting
mainly financial services and retail sectors the business
traditionally relies on high levels of data management and
personalisation to offer more sophisticated direct mail
products. However, the industry trend has been for simpler
personalised products as marketing budgets have been
trimmed and lowest cost purchasing has predominated in the
current climate.
Following a weak second half 2001, the first quarter 2002
showed some improvement but thereafter, and in particular
through the summer months, pricing came under increasing
pressure as the simpler requirements attracted a wider range
of print suppliers. However, direct mail volumes held up
better than most print products, where communisis
continues to supply at the highest quality end of the market
as well as being market leader at the most competitive end.
In June communisis and Air Miles produced the largest ever
digital mailing in the UK. The campaign targeted over 
3 million customers in one-to-one communications.
Our objective to be world class includes a statement about
being lowest cost producer. The direct marketing business
made further strides in 2002 on both quality and costs.
Increasingly the business will see growth in sales from the
key account programme and print management contract
wins. This, together with continuous productivity
improvement, will support profitability. 
In security products communisis is the market leader in the
supply of cheques and credit products for both retail and
corporate clients. Sole supply positions with several large
banking customers make this business strategic to their
overall print needs. In communisis’ key account programme
a majority of clients have strategic positions with our security
products business.
Despite cheque usage declining by 6% annually, communisis
security products increased volume in the year by 1% due to
further contract wins increasing market share. Nevertheless
overall turnover declined due to lower prices in new
contracts and market linked raw material cost reductions. 
Profitability improved again this year, despite the lower
turnover and driven by productivity. Continuous
improvement is fundamental to the manufacturing culture
and ISO 9000:2000 was achieved in all three cheque
production facilities during the course of the year.
It is our objective to increase the UK market share for this
business during 2003/2004 and maintain its position as part
of a strategic manufacturing offer to the key account
programme.
Personalised Products
2002 Turnover £m 111.0 13.9% ROS
12.9% ROS 2001 Turnover £m 114.8
over
3 million
Air Miles
customers
targeted with
one-to-one
communications chief executive’s report report and accounts 2002
7
Document Services Europe
Document Services Europe is a leading manufacturer of
business stationery in the UK and the Benelux.
In 2002 profitability suffered due to a 14% turnover decline
almost equally due to volume and price falls. Although UK
profitability held up relatively well despite the competitive
pressures, the Benelux fared worse.
The year saw the completion of factory rationalisations with the
closure of manufacturing in Belgium and the transfer of capacity
to expanded facilities in Luxembourg and The Netherlands.
Over the past two years six facilities across Northern Europe
have been reduced to three and despite a decline in profitability
in 2002 the level is considerably ahead of the industry and
reflects the quality of the communisis business.
Despite weak demand and reduced prices the UK business held
profitability well, driven by the rationalisations initiated in
2000/2001 and the continuous improvement programme.
In Europe, recession in the Benelux countries seemed to impact
immediately after the launch of the Euro had increased pre 
year-end activity in 2001. 2002 started poorly and struggled to
recover. The closure of the Belgian factory was completed by
the half-year and the benefits only started to emerge towards
the end of 2002.
We enter 2003 with a settled structure in Europe and a very
efficient UK cost base; both will benefit from the key account
programme and the contracts being delivered by print
management.
Business forms documents are fundamental to our major clients
in both the financial and retail sectors and our pan-European
capability is set to follow our customers’ development and
geographic expansion.
Document Services Europe
2002 Turnover £m 73.1 8.4% ROS
10.0% ROS 2001 Turnover £m 85.3
a leading manufacturer of
business stationery in the UK and the Benelux communisis plc chief executive’s report
8
Color Solutions
Color Solutions operates in the UK, France, Germany, Belgium, USA and Canada.
Its major customers are in the DIY, retail, automotive and cosmetics sectors.
It is a barometer of global economic conditions. 
The continued slowdown in North America impacted turnover and profitability in
2002. Overall, the European business proved more resilient with longer term
contracts supporting performance. North American customers reacted to the
economic slowdown by reducing stock levels and the order pipeline, and competitive
price pressures increased. Our response has been to change the organisation to be
able to respond on an international front, consistent with the development of global
customers particularly in the DIY and automotive sectors.
Sales and marketing is now operated on an international basis and customer
opportunities are co-ordinated between the UK, Continental Europe and North
America. We now offer to supply, with alternative products and services, on a multi-
country production basis.
In the UK the transformation of our sheetfed and flexible print operation continued
as a low cost, high quality alternative in support of not only colour cards but also the
key account programme. 
2003 will prove challenging, particularly in North America, and we will continue to
develop the color solutions offering consistent with our focus on key customers.
David Jones
Chief Executive
Color Solutions
2002 Turnover £m 36.4 10.0% ROS
11.1% ROS 2001 Turnover £m 39.7
a global
leader
in the manufacture of
colour cards
& labels
