 (2003)
Communisis forms
Wakefield Holdings
Print management
extended to
Continental Europe
Significant focus to
acquire transactional print/
statementing business
(2004)
Communisis completes 
non-core disposal
programme
Communisis buys 
Dataform for £22m
Organisation change
announced to
to facilitate growth
(2005)
Rebranding to support 
organisation change
Communisis agrees
£250m, 10 year
statement outsourcing
deal with HSBC
Chief Executive’s Report
3
Chief Executive’s Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Results for 2005
Communisis continued its progress in developing
contractual business with major financial institutions in 2005.
In particular, Print Management and Transactional Print
business sectors benefited from the HBOS 5 year, £60
million deal and will benefit in 2006 from the HSBC 10 year,
£250 million deal.
In the year ended 31 December 2005 turnover from
continuing businesses fell marginally to £264.8 million (2004:
£269.7 million) despite 10% growth in the Print
Management sector. Operating profit from continuing
businesses, before restructuring costs, was £15.1 million
(2004: £15.3 million). Profit before tax from continuing
operations, after the loss on the sale of Datadocs and
restructuring costs combined (£7.9 million), was £4.1 million
(2004: £6.2 million) with adjusted earnings per share of
6.31p* (2004: 7.68p). After results from discontinued
operations the profit for the year was £2.6 million (2004:
loss of £6.7 million). Net debt increased in 2005 to £36.0
million including one-off payments for the Barclays contract
extension and the payment into the pension fund totalling
£13 million.
Dividends
The Board proposes to increase the final dividend by 10%.
This will take the full year dividend to 5.850p (2004: 5.324p)
including a proposed final dividend of 3.897p. Going forward
it is the Board’s intention to hold this level of dividend whilst
commencing an initial £5 million share buy-back
programme. The programme will be within the Board’s
approval level to buy back up to 15% of the Company’s
shares.
Dividends will be paid, subject to shareholders’ approval, on
28 April 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 7 April 2006.
Transformation
Since its inception in 2000, Communisis, formed through
the acquisitions of Waddington PLC and Rexam PLC’s
printing division, has been developing a new base of
contract print business, principally with the leading UK
financial institutions.
During this period an extensive disposal and restructuring
programme has taken Communisis out of print manufacture
in the USA, Canada, France, Belgium, Holland and
Luxembourg as well as consolidating remaining business
stationery operations in the UK. 
At the same time Communisis also built its position to be the
leading supplier of cheque books in the UK, with three
dedicated production facilities and 100% share with HSBC,
RBS, Lloyds TSB, Barclays and HBOS. 
Entirely new contract business has been added in Print
Management and Transactional Print both by acquisition
and through organic growth. The annualised turnover of this
new business is £200 million with major contracts won with
Barclays, HSBC, HBOS and Sainsbury’s.
Communisis has had to absorb extensive restructuring
costs and selling price declines for its manufactured
products over this period; this has held back profit
improvement despite the new sales growth. Excess
capacity remains in UK print manufacturing and prices
continue to be under pressure. 
Communisis has closely managed its cashflow during this
period. Net debt at the beginning of 2000 was £240 million
and at the end of 2005 was £36.0 million. In 2000 there was
a small actuarial pension surplus that was off balance sheet.
At the end of 2005 the IFRS pension deficit, on balance
sheet, was £37.7 million. Your Board continues to look at
the most efficient way to eliminate this deficit in liaison with
the Trustees of the pension fund.
Following an extensive strategic review in 2005 your Board
concluded that Communisis should complete the
transformation it began back in 2000. We are committed to
this course and see exciting and profitable opportunities
ahead. We have excellent customer positions, especially
with the major UK banks. We manage the largest print
management contract in Europe with Barclays, deploying
our c-store software and integrated logistics operations.
We are leaders in the key strategic products of cheques
and now, statements, with the HSBC 10 year outsourcing
deal. Chief Executive’s Report (continued)
4
Communisis plc Chief Executive’s Report
Business Review 
Print Management Services 
Communisis Print Management Services made further
progress in the year with turnover up 10% and profits
improving by £1.1 million to £5.7 million. This performance
was helped by the acquisition of Dataform in September
2004 which added significantly to our operational print and
logistics capability.
During the year we launched a consolidation programme of
our UK Print Management business. This is designed to
enable us to serve all our customers from a single IT
platform base in the North East, and at significantly lower
cost.
Contract renewals in the year were achieved with the Post
Office and Coors. In Europe we made further progress and
opened Axa and Disney accounts in France; small to begin
with but offering growth opportunities across Europe.
New business wins included the Department for Work and
Pensions, RBS and Lloyds TSB but the highlight was the 5
year, £60 million deal with HBOS for the provision of direct
mail and security printing services. The deal includes the
roll out of Communisis’ document management software, 
c-store.
Barclays remains our largest contract, continuing to run at
over £56 million turnover annually. In the year we paid £3
million to extend the contract until 2010 and also to access
potential additional turnover; this includes working with the
bank on international business.
Print Management in the UK continues to offer growth
opportunities but at the smaller contract end there are
now too many competitors and pricing has become
commoditised. Communisis is targeting the larger contracts
that require management of the entire document process,
utilising c-store and our logistics capability as well as world-
class procurement. Here there are fewer competitors and
our focus on the major banks distinguishes our offer.
It is essential that we continually develop our procurement
capability especially in the areas of paper and print
purchasing. We are extending the supplier base across
Central Europe and the Far East, and we continue to
develop our e-procurement tools with dedicated IT support
and investment.
Communisis will look to win the bigger contracts that require
management of the customers’ end-to-end document
process; marketing campaigns through our c-store
software; operational print and logistics and data-critical
regulatory customer communications.
Print & Direct Mail Services 
Turnover in Print and Direct Mail Services fell 10% in the year
due in the main to continued, significant pricing pressure.
Despite the drive for efficiency improvements at each of our
locations, profitability was inevitably affected, reducing by
£2.9 million in the year to £7.2 million.
In Direct Mail we are the leading manufacturer predominantly
serving the financial sector of the direct mail market. This
market sector has deteriorated over the past 24 months in
particular; as a consequence of a combination of reduced
credit card mailings and highly competitive pricing. We are
continually looking to optimise performance against this
difficult trading background.
In the first half year we exited the remaining European
Business Forms manufacturing leaving us with a single, well-
invested UK facility. Communisis’ inter-company work also
Turnover
£’million
2004 2005
148.9
135.8
Operating Profit*
£’million
2004 2005
5.7
4.6
Turnover
£’million
2004 2005
125.5
139.3
Operating Profit*
£’million
2004 2005
7.2
10.1 Chief Executive’s Report (continued)
5
Chief Executive’s Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005
supports this business which has also faced extreme
pricing pressure over the past 12 months, particularly driven
by e-auction processes. The business will benefit from cost
efficiency programmes in 2006 and growth in statement
base stock printing; recent wins being RBS and the HSBC
outsourcing deal.
Transactional Print Services
Despite the 10% decline in turnover Transactional Print
Services, which has to date comprised Communisis’
personalised cheque book business, increased its profits.
The normal annual decline in cheques is about 6% but it
remains a strategic product for our customers. It is
important to restate that we have 100% of the personalised
cheque business for the top five banks; HSBC, RBS, Lloyds
TSB, Barclays and HBOS. In the year we achieved a
significant breakthrough winning the Allied Irish Bank’s
cheques business in Ireland. This opens the door to further
business with the bank.
Communisis’ position with the banks is helpful in developing
new business. The 10 year, £250 million HSBC statement
outsourcing deal is groundbreaking in the UK. With effect
from 16 January 2006 we have taken over 255 staff in three
locations and have committed to building a world-class
statementing facility to be ready second quarter 2007. This
will not only house all of HSBC but also other statementing
business. We are actively pursuing the next opportunities.
This business sector offers Communisis attractive turnover
and profits growth potential.
The Board
The composition of the Board has remained unchanged
during 2005.
People
Communisis continues its training and development strategy
despite the difficult background trading environment. Our
people distinguish the Company from its competitors and
are responsible for managing the most prestigious contracts
in the industry; Barclays, HSBC, HBOS and Sainsbury’s.
We continue our training programmes; Cranfield
Business Leaders, Communisis “bespoked” Management
Development and Customer Service Relationship
Management.
This approach, we believe, makes Communisis attractive to
the best people in the industry.
Outlook
We are well positioned to see progress this year, despite the
challenging industry conditions.
We have a strong pipeline of growth opportunities,
importantly the majority being with our existing customer
base. 
The HSBC outsourcing deal is a breakthrough for the
Company in our focus to partner with major customers. 
David Jones
Chief Executive
Turnover
£’million
2004 2005
27.1
30.4
Operating Profit*
£’million
2004 2005
5.4
4.7
*Before exceptional restructuring costs 
