 The Communisis Timeline
(2000)
Mansfield buys 
Waddington PLC 
for £323m
Mansfield buys Rexam 
Printing for £85m
Mansfield rebrands 
as Communisis
Communisis disposal 
programme – £220m
Strategy to develop 
contractual business 
with major customers
(2001)
Review of print management 
and transactional/statementing 
markets for contractual growth
(2002)
Communisis buys 
Centurion for £42m
Communisis buys 
Logistics Leicester
Communisis signs 
£250m, 5 year 
strategic contract 
with Barclays
Chairman’s Statement
2
Communisis plc Chairman’s Statement
2005 has been an eventful year for Communisis. Short term
results have been under pressure through the continued
weakness in the UK printing industry. Price pressure
intensified at a time of increased costs, caused in part by
falling demand in key market segments. 
We firmly believe, however, that the outlook for Communisis
remains exciting and in the year we made strategic progress
in those market sectors we have declared to be of
increasing importance to the business. In particular we
strengthened our position as the leading provider of printed
products and services to financial institutions by acquiring
HSBC’s UK bank statement production business and
signing a 10 year statement outsourcing contract.
Perhaps not surprisingly, given our longer term prospects,
there have been persistent rumours of outside interest from
buyers for all or part of Communisis. To bring this to a head
the Board instigated a strategic review with the help of our
financial advisers. This review not only assessed our own
competitive position but also the prospects for co-operating
with third parties including becoming part of a larger group.
We made contact with many identified potential buyers but
nothing materialised on a basis that was acceptable to your
Board. 
Now that the process has ended and with it the inevitable
uncertainty for both employees and customers, we feel
freshly energised to continue to take the Company forward.
Morale is high and we believe that we can show meaningful
progress in 2006.
Mike Smith
Chairman
