 Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
2
The results for 2009 were disappointing as Communisis faced
the impact of the severe downturn in the UK economy. As a
result, on revenues of £190.2m, we reported operating profits
of £7.2m compared to £15m in the previous year. The Board
is proposing a final dividend of 0.43p per share, making the
dividend for the year 1.29p per share.
Operations
In spite of the macro-economic difficulties, particularly in the
financial services industry, all major parts of the business
remained profitable. The Leeds Direct Mail activities
particularly suffered from the decline in demand from their
major banking customers. However, the value-added
segments of our business performed well and a first
contribution from Ai was very satisfactory.
At the same time cash was tightly controlled so that net debt
by the year end had been contained at £16.8m. This has
enabled the Company’s investment plans to continue, leading
to the decision to purchase the most up-to-date digital
technology from Hewlett Packard. Communisis is the only
UK company to offer the HP platform to deliver highly
personalised mass communications. The strategy of moving
into non-financial services business was successful with
significant contracts obtained from T-Mobile, William Hill,
Tesco, Department for Children, Schools and Families, Ogilvy
and Wolseley. This diversification strategy continues. On the
financial side, the pension deficit is being addressed with
an agreed medium-term plan designed to manage the deficit
issue.
Management
There were a number of management changes during the
year; Steve Vaughan, Chief Executive since November 2006,
indicated that he did not wish to continue with the Company
beyond the end of the year. Following a thorough internal
process, the Board appointed Andy Blundell as Chief
Executive in November. Andy has been with Communisis for
two years having previously been Sales Director.
We also took the opportunity to change the structure of
the Board with the appointment of Dave Rushton as
Operations Director and John Wells as Commercial Director.
This means that we now have five senior executives on the
Board, bringing the activities of the Company closer to the
boardroom. Below Board level, we have also strengthened the
management team with the appointment of two General
Managers for the Speke and Leeds operations, together with
a Director of Sales for the Direct Mail business.
Outlook
Whilst 2009 was a difficult year, we are now seeing some of
our customers returning to higher levels of marketing activity.
We have built a unique range of services which enable highly
personalised communications. I believe we have a new
management team which is able to take those services to
market and deal with the challenges of 2010 and beyond.
We will continue to invest in the most modern technology,
particularly in areas such as higher margin data analysis and
online services. This will enable us to exceed the future
demands of our customers and accelerate our penetration in
markets other than financial services.
Our performance in 2010 will be linked to the rate at which
the economy emerges from recession. At this stage, it is too
early to judge how quickly demand will return. However,
I believe that with the steps we have taken, and continue to
take, we are well placed to benefit from the opportunities an
upturn will bring.
Peter Hickson
Chairman
25 February 2010
We have built a unique range of services
which enable highly personalised
communications.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chairman’s Statement
