 Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
3
Summary
2009 was a year characterised by very challenging market
conditions, with the double impact of a recession and severe
disruption in the important financial services market.
Despite the impact of this on our financial performance in the
year, we continued to generate both profits and cash and
kept our debt position under control. This underlines the
importance of the strategy we have implemented over the past
three years and means that we have been able to continue to
invest in differentiated, value-added services.
Communisis is a data-driven group which delivers
effective and profitable customer communications through
a combination of (1) data and analytics and (2) specialist
multi-channel output.
We are committed to continued investment in technology to
maintain a leading position in our chosen strategic market.
Our investment was £6.1m in 2009 and is cumulatively in
excess of £30m over the past three years. Our latest
announcement is a £3m investment in an HP T300 colour
output platform. This technology changes the landscape in
the Direct Mail market and offers customers the opportunity to
access personalised full-colour messaging at output speeds
previously unheard of. HP have appointed Communisis as
their Foundation Partner in this field and, in addition, have
selected us as their preferred service delivery partner for
the HP Exstream document composition software which will
feed directly to the HP platform. Live customer work starts
in April.
Having been appointed Chief Executive from 31 October
2009, I have started to make changes to the senior team and
two executives, John Wells and Dave Rushton, have joined
the Board adding a wealth of additional market experience to
the team. We are also strengthening the next tier with new
General Managers for our Leeds and Speke facilities along
with a Director of Sales for Direct Mail. These appointments
are key to our plans to improve operational efficiency and new
business acquisition respectively.
In the face of a difficult trading environment in 2009,
management focus has been on delivering the key
fundamentals of profitable contributions from each division;
strong controls on cash and the year-end net debt position;
and renewal of the credit line from KBC Bank taking our total
committed facilities to £50m.
Technology & Services
We have again seen sales and profit growth in this business
despite the recessionary pressures witnessed through
the year. Technology & Services is central to the Communisis
strategy.
We have completed the integration of Ai. Revenue has grown
more steeply than profits because Ai treats the cost of the
acquisition of data as a pass-through. We expect Technology
& Services overall to be able to maintain a return in excess of
25% going forward.
Our technology development strategy is moving forward.
We continue to develop MRM (Marketing Resource
Management) and digital asset management solutions with
our customers, thereby reducing processing costs and
providing robust electronic audit trails of all their activity.
One of our largest deployments in 2009 was for the
Department for Children, Schools and Families (‘DCSF’),
where our digital asset management technology hosts the
imagery for all their communications.
In 2010 we plan to integrate the database capabilities of Ai with
our MRM platform, enabling customers to draw on vast data
Segmental Review Year ended Year ended
31 Dec 31 Dec
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue
Technology & Services 20.3 11.9
Print Sourcing 58.1 96.7
Direct Mail (*) 53.6 91.8
Transactional 58.2 57.3
190.2 257.7
Profit
Technology & Services 6.3 5.1
Print Sourcing 0.6 1.3
Direct Mail (*) 0.5 5.5
Transactional 9.7 13.3
Central costs (9.9) (10.2)
7.2 15.0
(*) Year ended 31 December 2008 includes Bath Business
Forms disposed of in June 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
We are committed to continued investment
to maintain a leading position in our
chosen strategic market. Communisis plc 2009
sets to more effectively target and individualise documents. We
continue to react to the needs of the changing market by
extending our customer database management capabilities to
deliver a true single customer view for our clients.
The significant enhancements made to our point of sale
module enable customers to track all items, target campaigns
down to individual spaces in stores and automatically
calculate quantities, print costs and distribution instructions.
There is real evidence of savings of 5-8% simply by eliminating
wasted print, as well as significant process savings.
In addition, our pipeline is getting stronger, with Tesco buying
our point of sale solution, Ogilvy taking our print procurement
software and a major UK energy company using our document
composition technology to add marketing messages to bills.
We have established a Group Technology Steering Board for
Communisis to ensure that we continue to strengthen our
technical leadership and remain ahead of the market.
Print Sourcing
The role of Print Sourcing is to act as an incubator for new
client relationships, which we then develop and take up the
value-chain.
Demand from some existing customers was very weak in 2009
as the recession took hold. For example, one of our major
banking customers reduced volume by 40% during the year.
However, run rates improved a little in the second half as some
confidence returned.
We have commented previously on challenging the orthodox
print management model. That means the early introduction of
an integrated technology platform to enable direct interaction
with clients, simplification of process and better management
of the supply chain.
We have announced a series of new customer wins during
2009, including T-Mobile, DCSF and William Hill. These
contracts are all well-embedded and the relationships are
generating opportunities for our other service lines.
The pipeline of opportunities is reasonable and we are finding
interest in our managed service offering from some
unexpected quarters, for example social housing, where we
have contracted with several providers.
Direct Mail
We previously commented that the downturn in marketing
spend across the industry was negatively impacting our Direct
Mail business. Our exposure to the financial services sector,
where many organisations stopped acquisition mailings
entirely, had an additional impact. This volatility and adverse
product mix, coupled with operational gearing, led to the risk
of cost under-recovery in times of low demand and excess
costs when demand within tight delivery windows peaked
toward the summer.
We have responded in a number of ways:
First, we are basing our plans on modest market recovery
and assuming that increasing our market share in the
‘Direct’ market will offset slower demand from our ‘Key
Accounts’. We also think that the credit-crunch has, to
some extent, changed customer behaviours for good –
toward more targeted and personalised communications –
which suits Communisis.
Secondly, we have made substantial changes to the
management team – bringing in a new Director of Sales
and a new General Manager to run operations.
Thirdly, we have already achieved significant reductions in
the cost base and automated key processes.
Fourthly, major new investment will continue to be
made at the data front-end and in our digital output
capability; we have already described how the HP T300
colour output platform is going to change the market and
we will lead the trend.
To summarise, we are going to substantially change the shape
ofourDirectMailbusinesstobettermirrorthewaythemarket
is changing and to reduce our operational gearing. Having a
major presence in Direct Mail remains central to our
overall strategy of delivering more effective and profitable
communications on behalf of our customers. This is a
business which made a substantial contribution to Group
profits in 2008 and we expect its performance to improve
as these changes take effect.
Transactional
Our Transactional business covers two areas of specialist and
secure output – cheques and bills & statements.
Our cheques business performed well in 2009. This was
despite a continued delay in re-branding projects and the
previously documented decline in cheque-mailers. On the
latter we expect Government legislation to have an impact
from Q2 2010 but we believe that alternative opportunities
may emerge for related products and services. There was
considerable media interest in personal cheques recently
following the announcement of a planned phase-out by 2018.
This date resonates with our own long-term planning. We will
continue to reduce the cost base in our cheque business in
tune with annual reductions in demand.
We did encounter some issues with the performance of our
statement printing facility in Speke. At the half year we
reported volumes down on two of our main contracts and
challenges with cost controls and the maintenance of service
levels. Considerable efforts have gone into resolving these
issues and the trend over the past three months has shown a
marked improvement, driven by a new senior management
team which was in place from the fourth quarter of 2009.
The integration issues with the Mail Solutions work have been
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
4
Chief Executive’s Review continued Annual Report & Financial Statements
resolved and we are confident about profitability on the parts
of this work which we will retain. We have just added a fourth
main customer in Wolseley, to whom we already supply
operational print.
We will continue to be in the vanguard for developing the
statement vehicle and are now providing transpromotional
(marketing messaging) output both in hard copy and on-line
formats.
Strategy update
Communisis is an expert in customer communications.
We help companies to engage with their customers effectively
and profitably.
Our clients’ challenge is to get their message heard. To do that
they need insight and multi-channel delivery capability in order
to send relevant communications through the appropriate
channels.
The market is growing in these areas. In data and analysis
services, where we made our recent acquisition of Ai,
data intelligence customer budgets continue to shift into
analytics, measurement and database management. As for
multi-channel output, industry research continues to predict
significant growth in email and online channels.
Communisis has built competitive differentiation through a
unique combination of data and analysis services and
specialist multi-channel output. There are very few other
companies able to offer this combination. Customers benefit
from everything being in one place, from ‘Insight to Action’,
enabling them to achieve reduced cycle times, true
personalisation and superior returns on their investment.
We hold some important customer relationships and 40 of our
top 100 customers now take two or more service lines from
Communisis. Our priorities to take the Company’s growth
strategy forward are threefold:
First, we want to expand the value our services provide to
customers – which means greater integration and the
development of new service propositions. Our expansion
into postal consultancy services is a good example.
Secondly, we aim to expand the technology platforms
through which we deliver value – which means continuing
to take the business upstream and further capital
investment. Our investment in the HP output platform is the
latest evidence of this strategy in action.
Thirdly, we plan to expand the number of customers to
whom we deliver value. This means new customer
acquisition, strategic partnerships such as that with HP and
alternative channels to market, such as with logistics
provider Prolog to deliver a managed service for DCSF .
Looking ahead
Like many companies we are cautious about the extent to
which the economy will emerge from recession in 2010 but
believe that new customer demand will favour our integrated
communications capability. We have invested further in our
capabilities and we are aggressively targeting to expand sales
of Technology & Services to new customers and recover sales
of complex Direct Mail. We have targeted some important
contract renewals in 2010 and we expect to deliver further
significant efficiency gains in our operational businesses.
It is our expectation that the reduced availability of credit and
general trading pressures will force market consolidation in
the Print Sourcing and Direct Mail sectors, which will benefit
Communisis. We are already seeing some customers seek a
more resilient supplier base.
We have well-developed plans designed to address our
challenges and deliver the next stage of our strategy. These
break down into four parts:
Diversification outside the financial services sector – where
we are seeing some successes already announced.
Transition from established products, most notably on
cheques – the solution being (a) to participate in the
replacement technology – whenever that emerges and
(b) related security printing opportunities for our existing
skill base.
Re-purposing our production facilities – most notably
Direct Mail to further reduce our traditional asset base
whilst investing in data services and digital capacity to
continue to take the business upstream and reduce
operational gearing.
Re-structure of our pension fund – we have a project
well-developed and early retirement success has already
been achieved.
There is much to do in 2010 to push these initiatives forward
and with an invigorated management team we are optimistic
in taking the Company forward.
In summary, Communisis is now further down the road to
becoming a fully-fledged marketing services provider.
Andy Blundell
Chief Executive
25 February 2010
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
5
