 8
Chief Executive’s Review
Summary
2012 has been another successful year during which we have 
developed the identity of the business, clarifying its purpose 
and activities for clients, employees, investors and other 
stakeholders, and continued to deliver against our  
strategic initiatives.
During the year we have:
 grown the business organically with a 10% increase  
in revenues to £230m;
 expanded the portfolio of services through three  
niche acquisitions;
 diversiﬁed the sources of revenues with a greater 
proportion coming from  non-ﬁnancial services sectors  
and overseas territories;
 won a number of prestigious contracts from a strong 
pipeline of opportunities, providing further evidence  
that Communisis is becoming the trusted partner of 
leading consumer-facing brands in delivering their 
customer communications;
 remained committed to market-leading technology, 
driving efficiency and product innovation;
 substantially improved proﬁt from operations and 
operating margin before exceptional items for the  
third consecutive year in a difficult and very competitive 
macro-economic environment;
 actively managed the pension deﬁcit with an innovative 
arrangement that limits the Group’s annual cash payments 
to the Pension Scheme to £1.15m p.a. until at least the 
beginning of 2015; and
 secured the ﬁnancial resources required for the next phase 
of proﬁtable growth through an equity raise of £20m in 
early 2013. The net proceeds will be used for investment in 
new contracts, restructuring costs, small acquisitions and 
working capital.
 
What we do
Communisis is a leading UK marketing services provider 
that specialises in helping clients communicate with their 
customers more effectively and more proﬁtably in  
fast-changing markets. 
Services are focused on the integrated design, production  
and deployment of personalised customer communications. 
These communications are typically of a marketing, regulatory 
or transactional nature and can be distributed either on paper 
or in digital formats, through e-mail, text message, mobile 
content or social media.
The Group offers a broad range of services that can be delivered 
either separately or in combination to make its clients’ 
communications more targeted and efficient.
Our services include:
 the overall development of integrated off-line and on-line 
marketing strategies;
 the acquisition, analysis and management of lifestyle 
and credit data to generate target lists of prospects for 
marketing campaigns;
 the design, creation and management of customer content 
that is used to produce the documents that convey the 
marketing messages;
 the application of software tools to manage 
communication campaigns on behalf of clients and to 
source materials;
 the production and deployment of highly personalised 
marketing, regulatory and transactional documents; and
 the management of responses to marketing messages  
and the measurement of their effectiveness.
Communisis has a reputation for production excellence and 
innovation and is trusted by many leading consumer-facing 
brands to deliver their personalised customer communications 
accurately, securely, reliably and at scale. Many of these 
services are business critical and of operational necessity for 
clients. Competitive differentiation is built on the breadth of 
the Group’s portfolio of customer communication services, 
which is matched by few competitors, its market-leading 
technology, the scale of its operations and the depth of its 
embedded expertise and innovative capabilities. 9
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
We partner with market leading e-mail 
platforms and can broadcast up to  
20,000 e-mails per second
We bought 900 million envelopes on 
behalf of 114 clients in 2012
In 2012 we sent over 25 million e-mails 
on behalf of 13 customers
We produce 1 billion of the 8 billion packs that enter the Down Stream Access network per annum
1,000,000,000
20,000
We work with all of the top 10 Building Societies in Britain
900
m
25
m 10
Chief Executive's Review continued
Aspiration
The Group’s aspiration is to be the UK market leader in 
providing personalised customer communication services.
The key ﬁnancial targets for the medium term are to deliver 
a double-digit margin on sales (excluding pass through) 
and to derive 20% of revenues from overseas sources whilst 
continuing to grow UK sales.
Strategic initiatives
The Group’s aspiration will be pursued through a number of 
strategic initiatives including:
 growing sales both organically and through niche 
acquisitions;
 extending activities to broaden and deepen the  
service offering;
 further diversifying the client portfolio beyond the 
ﬁnancial services sector;
 following international clients into overseas markets;
 investing in specialist, market-leading technologies; and
 continuing to optimise the direct cost and overhead base. 
Market trends  
The Group operates in an overall market that is attractive and 
fast-moving. There are growing trends toward the outsourcing 
of outbound customer communication services, precision 
marketing through personalised communications and more 
consistent messaging in global campaigns. Companies are 
also increasingly looking to use single suppliers that provide 
a range of services, and there is a client-led diversiﬁcation of 
creative services away from marketing agencies. There is also 
a progressive migration from print to digital formats for many 
types of customer communication, an increasing use of data 
analytics and a growing client need to demonstrate improved 
returns on transactional processing and marketing spend.
Communisis is well-positioned to capitalise on these trends as 
evidenced by the recent contract wins.
Growth 
2012 revenues increased by 10% to £229.8m (2011 £208.3m) 
with most of the overall growth coming from managed service 
contracts in overseas markets. The services comprise the 
deployment of people and technology, alongside client teams 
in the overseas territories, for the purpose of managing local 
supply chains rather than the export of product from the UK. 
As a result of this strong overseas demand, which is set to 
continue and expand, overseas revenues grew to 7% of total 
turnover in 2012 (2011 4%).
Communisis has continued to develop its on-site operations 
across Western Europe and has grown signiﬁcantly, increasing 
from 21 Communisis specialists in 7 countries in 2012 to a 
projected 40 or more specialists in 15 countries by the end 
of 2013. The teams manage the production, sourcing and 
deployment of exhibition services, point of sale materials, 
artwork services and premium gifts across a number of 
household, fashion and premium brands. 
There has also been an underlying change in the mix of 
revenues with the value of new business more than offsetting 
a reduction in demand for more mature services; a trend that 
is expected to continue.
New contracts  
Organic growth has been maintained with two signiﬁcant new 
contract awards from British Telecommunications plc (“BT”) 
and Nationwide Building Society (“Nationwide”) being recently 
announced. Both will be operational in the ﬁrst half of 2013.
The ﬁve year BT contract is for the production of all billing and 
associated customer communications using high-speed colour 
digital technology at our transactional centre of excellence in 
Liverpool to make the billing formats clearer , more personal 
and more dynamic. This is in addition to the BT shareholder 
communications that Communisis has produced for  
many years.
The Nationwide contract is for a nine-year term and covers the 
development and production of its customer communications, 
including transactional, marketing and regulatory mailings. 
The new contract signiﬁcantly extends the Group’s existing 
relationship to include all of the transactional documentation 
that is currently produced in-house by Nationwide. Over a 
number of years Communisis has expanded the range and 
volume of services provided as part of its strategic account 
programme. The Group will continue to produce direct mail, 
regulatory communications and security products, source 
point of sale and marketing collateral through its managed 
supply chain and deploy its workﬂow, document asset 
management and document composition technology to help 
Nationwide transform the clarity and effectiveness of its 
customer communications. 11
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Activity on other client accounts has also expanded. Amongst 
the many interesting projects, Communisis has been at the 
heart of the high proﬁle launch of the new EE brand, which 
offers the UK’s only 4G mobile and ﬁbre optic broadband 
service. This has been through the successful execution of 
a managed service contract for the sourcing and delivery of 
the associated marketing collateral to EE’s 700 retail outlets 
throughout the UK and for all of its direct mail requirements 
and internal communications.
More recently, a further series of important contract wins and 
extensions from a strong pipeline of opportunities has been 
announced, all of which will help to underpin the results for 
2013 and beyond.
Yorkshire Building Society (“YBS”) has awarded Communisis 
a three year contract, beginning in March 2013, which is an 
extension of a long-standing relationship and signiﬁcantly 
expands the service offering beyond the existing provision 
of security products. Communisis will also be producing all 
direct mail for YBS, managing the deployment of all its point 
of sale branch material through the Group’s distribution 
centre in Newcastle and providing access to the Mantl 
marketing technology platform for campaign and digital asset 
management purposes. This contract strengthens Communisis’ 
presence in the mutual sector where it now works for all of the 
top ten building societies in Britain.
Thames Water Utilities Limited (“Thames”) has recently 
awarded the production and deployment of all revenue 
generating communications to Communisis under a three 
year contract. Thames has designed a clearer bill which from 
February 2013 is being produced on the HP T400 high-speed 
colour digital platform at the Group’s Liverpool facility.
The contract with a ﬁnancial services client for the production 
of transactional documents which started in 2006 has been 
extended by two years until January 2018. All of this production 
will now migrate to the HP T400 high-speed colour digital 
platform providing this client with a more cost effective  
white-paper solution and access to the broader beneﬁts of 
variable content and product innovation.
2012 has seen further diversiﬁcation in the sources of revenue. 
Approximately 46% (2011 51%) of revenues were derived from 
the ﬁnancial services sector whilst other sectors, notably 
utilities, telecoms, retail, consumer goods, charities and 
government, accounted for the remaining 54% (2011 49%). 
The ﬁnancial services sector provides a substantial proportion 
of the demand for the Group’s transactional and security 
products and is therefore likely to continue as a signiﬁcant 
source of revenues for the foreseeable future. These products 
are ones of operational necessity for clients so that demand for 
them is less susceptible to changes in the broader economy. 
Demand for marketing communications can be more variable. 
Competitive pressures in the insurance sector , particularly 
from comparison websites, during the year resulted in 
reduced demand for the Group’s data and direct mail services. 
This was countered, to some extent, by growing demand 
for data insight services in other sectors and for specialist 
manufacturing project work. Communisis is winning more 
AGM communications; the Electoral Reform Services Limited 
commissioned the Group to produce the ballot papers for the 
Greater London Authority Assembly and Mayoral elections 
and a project has been successfully executed for the Standards 
Testing Agency (“STA”). Such activity exempliﬁes the power of 
combining data analytics with the personalisation capabilities 
of high-speed colour digital output.
Acquisitions 
Three, carefully chosen, niche acquisitions in strategic growth 
areas were completed during the year to expand the Group’s 
growing capabilities in on-line communication, social media 
and specialist content management.
Kieon builds websites and mobile and other digital 
applications. Its sales office is now based in the Group’s London 
Headquarters and the operational base is in Bangalore, where 
over 50 software developers are employed.
Yomego is a UK-based specialist social media agency that 
advises on the role of social media and measures its impact 
as an integral part of broader on-line and off-line marketing 
campaigns. 
The Garden Marketing extends the Group’s creative services 
offer , adding further strategic planning expertise, conceptual 
creative services, copywriting and artworking resources as well 
as specialist knowledge of ﬁnancial services regulations to the 
Group’s strong and growing marketing services proposition.
These acquisitions did not have a material effect on the 2012 
results but the Group is starting to unlock the sales synergies 
by introducing these businesses to its larger clients as part of 
an integrated service offering.  12
Chief Executive's Review continued
Operational excellence 
Communisis has been at the forefront of high-speed colour 
digital technology deployment in the UK for some time. Two 
HP T300 lines were installed in the Leeds facility during 2010 
and 2011. They sit at the heart of the Group’s new offering into 
the direct mail market and played a key role in the successful 
delivery of the STA project. 
Two HP T400 lines were commissioned during the year in the 
Group’s transactional centre of excellence in Liverpool which 
delivered an extremely high average of 99.8% compliance 
with client deﬁned service levels during the year . This facility is 
expected to change the UK market for statements and billing 
signiﬁcantly and all major clients are expected to transition to 
these platforms during 2013, whilst also attracting new clients 
directly onto the technology. The beneﬁts of wholly variable 
content, in colour and at high deﬁnition, have been inﬂuential 
in a number of the recent contract wins. 
The plan to consolidate all client-facing software onto one 
platform, called “Mantl” is advancing and similarly all  
back-office functions will be consolidated onto one platform 
called “Skyline”. The beneﬁts of this to the Group’s clients 
include improved transparency on workﬂow and cost-reduction 
opportunities. 
On-site teams are a valuable part of Communisis’ client 
service and business development model. The Group now has 
115 employees operating with 12 clients across 19 locations 
whereas in March 2012 there were 94 employees operating with 
11 clients across 16 client sites. 
The number of Communisis locations increased following the 
addition of the offices of Kieon (Bangalore), Yomego (Glasgow) 
and The Garden Marketing (London) but subsequently reduced 
as the London operations of Kieon and The Garden Marketing 
moved to the Group’s expanding base in the City. 
In line with the strategic initiative of optimising the direct cost 
and overhead base, the Group announced in November 2012 
the closure of its cheque personalisation facility in Lisburn, 
Northern Ireland, and the consolidation of production at 
certain other facilities. A further restructuring of the direct 
mail operations in Leeds was also announced at the same 
time in order to reduce costs following pricing pressures in 
the market and falling demand in some areas, particularly in 
the insurance sector . Both programmes are expected to be 
completed during the ﬁrst quarter of 2013.
Corporate costs reduced during the year by 8% to £3.5m  
(2011 £3.8m) as the beneﬁts of earlier restructuring  
initiatives ﬂowed through.
Results  
The combined effect of these activities is that the Group has 
grown the business and substantially improved proﬁt from 
operations and operating margin before exceptional items for 
the third consecutive year in a difficult and very competitive 
macro-economic environment.
On increased turnover of £229.8m (2011 £208.3m), proﬁt from 
operations before exceptional items grew by 23% to £11.6m 
(2011 £9.4m) whilst the operating margin on sales (excluding 
pass through) improved to 6.5% (2011 5.5%) and toward our 
target of a double-digit margin in the medium term.
Resources 
The Group raised growth capital for the ﬁrst time in early 
2013 with gross proceeds of £20m. The net proceeds (after 
transaction costs) will be used for investment in new contracts, 
for restructuring costs and for small acquisitions and working 
capital. The share issue was substantially oversubscribed with 
strong demand from both existing shareholders and new 
investors demonstrating their conﬁdence in the Group’ s strategy 
and growth opportunities. Completion of the fundraising was 
approved by shareholders at the General Meeting held on  
5 March 2013.
The Group’ s unsecured bank facilities were extended by £5m 
early in 2012 to £50m whilst its exposure to the pension deﬁcit 
was actively managed through an innovative asset-backed 
arrangement that limits the Group’ s annual cash commitment 
to the Pension Scheme (other than for administrative expenses) 
to an affordable £1.15m p.a. until at least the beginning of 2015.
Tight cash management has resulted in increased free cash 
ﬂow in each of the last three years and in excess of the annual 
dividend payments to shareholders. This will continue to be an 
area of focus and a target for ongoing improvement despite the 
need for additional, growth-related working capital.
Two signiﬁcant legacy issues, being the pension deﬁcit and the 
structural debt in the Group, have therefore been addressed, the 
Balance Sheet has been strengthened and the resources needed 
to fund the next growth phase have been secured.  
Andy Blundell
Chief Executive
7 March 2013 13
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Built 21 different models in 12 months to ensure data collected is proﬁtable  
to the client, this generated £23 million value of sales for the client in 2012
Communisis On-site Teams
115 Communisis employees
12 clients
6 countries
Germany France Italy Republic of Ireland Spain UK
19 locations
12
21 £23
m
Capacity to web print 4 billion A4 pages annually
4,000,000,000
