 Revenue growth
Greater financial performance 
drives shareholder value
Cost efficiencies
Client sales and
marketing
Food costs
Consumer sales
and marketing
Unit costs Above unit 
overheads
06 Compass Group PLC
Annual Report 2006
Chief Executive’s statement
Our objective is to maximise shareholder
value through delivering profitable and
sustainable growth in our chosen markets.
Richard Cousins Chief Executive
Profit drivers
We are focused on two elements 
of the income and expenditure 
account – revenue growth and 
cost efficiencies.
First impressions
In my first three months I visited 15 of our
largest countries and received presentations 
on a further 30 key markets. It is clear to me
that our customer service is excellent and that
our people are committed and passionate 
about what they do. We have strong client
relationships and market leading positions 
in our core markets. We also have a global
footprint that should enable us to leverage 
our scale and expertise to develop growth for
the future.
Hence my conclusion is that fundamentally 
this is a good business with a sound strategy.
However, the model has been a little
overstretched and in some parts of the world
governance and control have been lacking. 
We therefore need to create a more intensive
performance culture. This implies the need 
to support customers locally but asking our
managers across the world to operate within
simple global frameworks. We seek intelligent
top-line growth and a more disciplined approach
to reducing our global cost base.
Very simply we need to build on our strengths
and correct our weaknesses. We have to create 
a management and performance culture that 
has at its core the delivery of profitable growth 
to maximise shareholder value. Aligning the
business around this single unifying objective is
the priority for me and my management team.
Business strategy
To be successful we must deliver the highest
quality and performance, whilst relentlessly
driving to be the lowest cost, most efficient
provider. Our focus going forward will be 
on the creation of real shareholder value
delivered in a disciplined and sustainable way.
At the moment we trade in too many countries
where future growth prospects do not offer
adequate returns. Over the next 12 months we
will reduce the number of countries we operate
in to 60-65.
Our core business will remain contract
foodservice. We are focused on it and excited 
by the opportunity. The market is some
£150 billion in size and, with outsourced
penetration still at around 50%, our market
grows at about 5% a year.
03
Thinking and acting 
like one business 07 Compass Group PLC
Annual Report 2006
There is clearly a growing trend amongst some
clients to source catering and other support
services, such as cleaning, from a single provider.
This market, including catering, has a value 
of around £700 billion, and with circa 35%
outsourced, growing at around 10% a year.
Support services already account for around
10% of our revenue and we are ideally placed 
to leverage our existing client relationships to
offer them integrated food and support services.
We will only do this, though, where it makes
sense and enhances value for shareholders.
Offering clients an integrated foodservice and
vending solution has been a key competitive
advantage in North America. Our European
vending business, Selecta, though highly
profitable, only has 9% of its revenues with our
contract foodservice clients. We have decided
that this business is not a core part of our
operations and will be sold. We will continue to
offer European clients an appropriate vending
solution when they require it.
The sale of Selecta following other disposals
(such as SSP , Moto and Au Bon Pain) and the
gradual withdrawal from a number of small
countries will mark the end of a phase for
Compass. From this new, tighter core Compass
will be able to grow in a sustainable way. Capital
expenditure, which three years ago exceeded
£300 million a year will, for the next two-three
years be held at circa 2% of revenue a year.
Profit drivers
Our objective over the next two-three years will
be to drive disciplined profitable growth with the
focus more on organic growth and much less 
on acquisitions. Within that philosophy we will
drive performance by concentrating upon five
simple profit drivers:
Client sales and marketing: winning new
business is, and will continue to be, a clear
strength for Compass. However, as we improve
discipline and focus on unit margins, organic
growth rates may, for a period, slow a little 
before increasing back to trend rates. We will
work closely with clients to deliver like-for-like
revenue growth seeking to balance the needs 
of value for money, efficiency and a fair reward
for a job well done. In the medium-long term, 
we will work harder to demonstrate to potential
clients the benefits of outsourcing.
Consumer sales and marketing: we will seek 
a more innovative approach to our consumers
improving the quality of our offer, restaurant
designs and point of sale displays. Like-for-
like volume growth will be an important key
performance indicator and where we face
inflationary cost pressures we will seek 
reasonable price increases.
Food cost: we spend over £3.5 billion a year 
on food. Our objective must be to procure the
optimal quality and range of food to meet 
the needs of our customers at the lowest cost.
This means having an efficient supply chain 
that leverages our scale whilst being much more
disciplined about rationalising our supplier and
product base. Driving in-unit compliance with
approved purchasing lists through a much more
systematic approach to menu planning and
portion control will be critical.
Unit costs: we spend nearly £6 billion a year on
unit costs. We will work closely with clients and
employees to improve labour scheduling and
efficiency and to reduce unit overheads.
Above unit overheads: we lose too much of
our unit profit to overheads. We need a simpler
model with fewer layers of management and 
less bureaucracy. This year we have achieved 
our target of £50 million of overhead savings
and are seeking a similar reduction once again 
in 2007. Thereafter, the drive for overhead
efficiency will continue.
Focus on management and 
performance (‘MAP’)
I have dismantled the divisional structure so 
that we have greater visibility of the underlying
performance of local businesses. New monthly
reporting processes and regular business reviews
with country management teams will ensure 
that all of us are constantly focused on the same
things. As part of this process the five profit
drivers outlined previously are being
orchestrated into a global performance
framework called ‘MAP’. Local managing
directors are empowered to run their business
within clearly defined corporate governance
rules and MAP .
The actions that have already been taken to
improve financial discipline and governance 
are focusing management on value creation.
There are three simple questions that managers 
at all levels in the business are beginning to use
in their decision making. Does it fit with our
strategy? What are the risks and rewards? 
Does it create value for shareholders?
Through creating a performance-driven culture
we are increasing the focus and intensity with
which we manage the business to deliver value
for shareholders.
Conclusion
2006 has been a transitional year for 
Compass against which we can benchmark 
our performance.
By stepping up the intensity with which we
manage the performance of the business, 
and with a disciplined focus on the key profit
drivers, we are well placed to create and deliver
sustainable shareholder value.
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive
29 November 2006
Effective decision making
To help us make the right operational decisions, 
we use a simple process that confirms value 
genuinely exists.
Does it fit with our strategy?
What are the risks and rewards?
Does it create value for shareholders? 
