 04 Compass Group PLC
Annual Report 2006
Chairman’s statement
Our priority is to manage your business
with the creation of shareholder value
firmly at the top of the agenda.
Our strategy
Focused on our contract
foodservice business.
Growing our support 
services business.
Committed to giving our 
customers superior levels 
of service.
Focusing on driving cost
efficiencies.
I was delighted to take over as Chairman 
of Compass in July. This is a good business. 
We have a significant presence in the countries
and sectors in which we want to trade. Our
people are passionate about what they do and
are proud to work for us. We also continue to
achieve excellent levels of contract retention
demonstrating that we have a satisfied client base.
These are solid foundations on which to build. 
Our priority now is to create value for
shareholders.
During the year we took the actions necessary 
to improve our future performance. We have
streamlined and reshaped the management 
team to better reflect the needs of the business.
We have improved financial discipline and
governance right across the Group, giving 
the Board much better visibility as to the
performance of the business.
In June we sold our travel concessions 
business, Select Service Partner (‘SSP’), for 
£1.8 billion. This disposal will enable us 
to focus on our contract catering operations 
and exploit the significant growth opportunities
in support services.
In November we announced our plan to 
sell our European vending business, Selecta. 
As the business derives only 9% of its revenue
from our contract foodservice clients, it is not 
a core part of our operations.
These actions provide the basis for improving
returns to shareholders.
Strategy
The creation of shareholder value is our priority.
Contract foodservice offers attractive and
sustainable growth potential which, allied to
support services, represents our core activities.
The business model is sound and our focus now
is on better executing our strategy to deliver
sustainable growth and profits. We will do this 
by growing our business in a more disciplined
way, continuing to give our customers superior
levels of service whilst being focused on driving
cost efficiencies for the shared benefit of our
customers, shareholders and employees.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman
02
Delivering greater
shareholder value 05 Compass Group PLC
Annual Report 2006
Returns to shareholders
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
6.7 pence per share for payment in March 2007,
bringing our full year dividend to 10.1 pence, 
a year-on-year increase of 3%. Whilst we 
remain committed to growing the dividend in
real terms, our objective over the medium term 
is to move the dividend cover more towards the
two times level.
In June 2006 on completion of the sale of
our travel concessions business, SSP , we
commenced a £500 million on the market share
buy-back programme. As of 30 September 2006
we had purchased shares for cancellation to the
value of £149 million.
Once the planned sale of Selecta is completed,
our aim will be to achieve a balanced use of the
net proceeds and this will include an extension 
of the current share buy-back programme.
Management
Since becoming Chairman I have looked at the
management skills needed to meet the future
needs of the business. I have begun a process 
of re-invigorating the Board.
During the year Sir Francis Mackay, Chairman,
and Michael Bailey, Chief Executive, left the
Company. On behalf of the Board I would like
to acknowledge their role in establishing Compass
Group as the global leader in contract foodservice.
In June we appointed Richard Cousins, 
previously Chief Executive of BPB plc, as 
our new Group Chief Executive. Richard’s 
track record in operational management, 
business transformation and the creation of
shareholder value has already been invaluable 
in mapping out the Group’s future strategy.
In December Val Gooding will step down 
from the Board after seven years. On behalf
of the directors I would like to thank Val for 
the enormous dedication and commitment 
she has shown to the Group.
Peter Cawdron, who has been a member of
the Board since 1993 and is currently Deputy
Chairman and Senior Independent Director, 
will retire from the Board at the Annual General
Meeting in February. I would like to thank Peter
on behalf of the Board for his outstanding
contribution to the Group and on a personal
note for the support he has given me since
taking over as Chairman.
I am delighted to welcome two new additions 
to the Board. Sir Ian Robinson, formerly 
Chief Executive of Scottish Power and 
currently Chairman of Ladbrokes plc 
(formerly Hilton Group plc) and a Director 
of Siemens Holdings plc will join the Board 
as a non-executive director on 1 December. 
His experience of developing international
businesses will be enormously valuable to us.
Gary Green will join the Board as an executive
director on 1 January 2007. He has been at
Compass for over 20 years and has successfully
led the development of our business in North
America since 1999.
Corporate governance
The way the Group is managed has been a 
matter of concern for shareholders. During the
year I have taken a number of decisive steps to
improve corporate governance. We have put in
place more robust centralised controls to ensure
effective decision making. I have also established 
a sub-committee of the Board to focus on
corporate responsibility. Its terms of reference 
include looking at all aspects of business
conduct, safety, health and environmental
management and responsible business practice.
United Nations
This has been an unfortunate episode in the
Group’s history. The Board has instituted a
number of changes to control procedures as a
result of the lessons we have learned. In March
2006 two competing food companies brought US
lawsuits totalling some £600 million against ESS,
Compass and various ESS staff. Though these
claims would have been resolutely defended we
decided that it was in the best interests of the 
on-going business and shareholders to settle 
these claims without prolonged litigation. 
In October, with no admission of legal liability,
we reached final settlement of all claims for less
than £40 million. We continue to cooperate 
fully with the relevant UN and US authorities 
in their on-going investigations.
Our people
This has been another tough year for our
people. They have supported one another as 
we have taken the actions necessary to improve
our performance and restore our reputation.
They have also acted professionally to produce
the highest level of customer service. On behalf
of the Board I want to record our appreciation 
of their continued dedication and commitment.
Outlook
The results we have reported for 2006 are a
benchmark from which to measure our future
performance. Fundamental changes have been
made during the year, including new leadership,
a comprehensive review of the business, and
establishing clear strategic priorities for the
future. We have improved financial discipline 
and governance across the Group and we are
now well placed to leverage the significant
opportunities our global platform gives us. These
actions will, in the years ahead, improve our
performance and deliver value for shareholders.
Sir Roy Gardner
Chairman
29 November 2006
Full year dividend
10.1 pence +3%
Sale of SSP
£1.8bn
30/09
2005
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index
29/09
2006
30/11
2005
31/01
2006
31/03
2006
31/05
2006
31/07
2006
160
180
200
220
240
260
280
300
Compass share price performance 
vs FTSE 100 2006
The FTSE 100 index has been rebased to the Compass
Group share price on 30 September 2005 (206.25 pence).
