 02 Compass Group PLC
Annual Report 2006
Our market sectors
Focused businesses operating in clearly defined
market sectors. 
We operate in six clearly defined market sectors:
Business & Industry
We are the world leader in providing a 
wide range of consumer-facing foodservice 
solutions to people at their place of work.
Fine Dining
We have an unrivalled reputation for fine
dining in corporate boardrooms and at
prestigious social and hospitality events
around the world.
Healthcare & Seniors
This is the most sophisticated and
demanding market in which we operate.
Success requires the highest standards of
customer service and food safety plus a
detailed understanding of the nutritional
needs of those we care for.
Group at a glance
We provide contract 
foodservice and support 
services to clients in 
over 70 countries.
Our business
How we work
We work in partnership with our clients, 
usually in their premises, utilising their
equipment and facilities to provide foodservice
and support services solutions tailored to the
needs of consumers.
Contracts with our clients are usually based
around one of four models:
Management fee
All of the operating costs are paid by the
contractor and recharged to the client along 
with an agreed fee. This type of arrangement is
most often used where the client is subsidising
the food offer.
Fixed price
The client pays an agreed price for a specified
range of services. This may be varied, 
for example, if the number of consumers 
changes considerably.
Profit & loss 
The foodservice contractor has control over 
the offer to the consumer and sets the price. 
This type of arrangement usually occurs where
there is little or no client subsidy.
Concessions 
The foodservice contractor pays an agreed
percentage of revenue for the right to trade at 
the clients’ premises. This type of arrangement 
is widely used in the leisure sector.
Market overview and trends
Overview
Contract foodservice and support services offer
significant growth opportunities.
The global contract foodservice market has an
approximate value of £150 billion with around
50% outsourced to contractors like Compass
and our market grows at around 5% a year.
The support services market (including 
catering, soft services such as cleaning and 
hard services such as building maintenance) 
has an approximate value of £700 billion. 
Circa 35% of this is outsourced to contractors
with the outsourcing market projected to grow 
at around 10% a year.
Trends
Both the markets in which we operate have
significant growth potential. The trend by
organisations over the last decade to reduce
subsidies and to outsource their foodservice
requirements is continuing. Clients are moving
away from management fee contracts to
arrangements where the contractor bears the
risk. Approximately 70% of our contracts are
now fixed price or profit & loss. This means that
we have to adopt different operating disciplines
that are more retail orientated in order to grow
profitability and returns for shareholders.
We are also seeing organisations accelerate 
the consolidation of a range of support services
such as cleaning and reception as well as
catering under one outsourced contract. We are
ideally placed to offer an integrated solution to
clients. Our challenge is to leverage these growth
opportunities profitably and sustainably in order
to create value for shareholders.
Education
From nursery schools to the world’s 
most prestigious universities, we offer 
tasty and nutritious food for tomorrow’s 
healthy generations.
Sports & Leisure
From local museums to the most famous
sporting and iconic cultural venues, we
provide foodservice solutions for consumers
and corporate events.
Defence, Offshore & Remote sites
In difficult and often inhospitable
environments we provide an integrated 
range of foodservice and support services on
offshore oil and gas rigs, major construction
sites and at remote mining locations.
Where there is a demand we can also offer
vending across any of our six market sectors. 
Vending
An integral part of the food and beverage
operation for most modern organisations. 
We provide high quality and innovative 
vending solutions for customers across the 
USA and Europe.
