 06 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s statement
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive 
Over the last 18 months we have tightened
our strategy , simplified the business to focus
on our core food and support services offer 
by selling non-core businesses and have
considerably reduced our risk profile by
exiting high risk or volatile businesses. 
Our strong operating performance is being
driven by concentrating on the five key profit
drivers of MAP , our operating framework,
which is now embedded within our business.
Each MAP component has its own set of key
performance indicators. Performance is
reviewed with country management teams
both monthly and in our detailed business
reviews. Together these give greater visibility
of country performance, enable us to respond
more quickly to opportunities and changes in
our markets and ensure that our businesses
are constantly focused on profitable organic
growth. 
MAP has enabled us to deliver £101 million
of constant currency operating profit growth
through:
£30 million of net new business
growth driven by better quality new
business and retention
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing:
achieved through better targeted businesses,
tighter contracts and sharper contract
evaluation. Included among our new business
wins: Asda in the UK; The House of
Representatives, Dell and DreamWorks in 
the US; Continental in Germany; and Shell
across Europe. 
£35 million of base estate profit
growth driven by like for like revenue
growth and cost efficiencies
Driving like for like revenue growth:
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing: 
addresses driving like for like revenue through
client pricing strategies and growing client
volumes, for example: through additional
services, such as: cleaning, portering, reception
and concierge.
MAP 2 – Consumer sales and marketing: 
focuses on developing our retail philosophy in
order to increase participation and spend per
head, for example: extending our offer to
include breakfast and ‘Grab & Go’ concepts.
Driving cost efficiencies:
MAP 3 – Cost of food: addresses cost
efficiencies through a systematic approach to
menu planning, purchasing and supply chain,
and unit processes.
MAP 4 – Unit costs: we spend nearly £5.5
billion per year on unit costs and we have been
managing this through: labour productivity
and scheduling; control of labour costs; and 
in-unit overhead opportunities.
£36 million of above unit overhead
savings after allowing for inflation
MAP 5 – Above unit overheads: we spend
£0.8 billion on above unit overheads per year .
The savings have been achieved through:
management reorganisation; consolidated
back office functions; change management
processes; and tightened control of
discretionary spend.
Driving performance
Through the MAP process we have
delivered good quality organic
revenue growth, driven the operating
margin forward and significantly
increased operating profit. We have
achieved this through better quality
new business and retention, a greater
focus on like for like growth and
improved cost efficiencies. Our focus
on capital expenditure and working
capital has resulted in a step change
in the delivery of free cash flow . 07 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Food cost inflation
We spend around £3.5 billion a year on food.
We estimate that for last year we have seen
about a one percentage point increase in the
rate of inflation. To put this into context each
one percentage point of food cost inflation
adds about £35 million to the total cost base
of £9.7 billion. This is before taking into
account that around one third of our
contracts are cost plus. We believe that our
basket of goods is currently experiencing
market increases of some 4% to 5%.
In terms of its impact, most of the
geographies in which we operate and most
food categories have seen some inflation.
However, the larger double digit inflationary
increases have been in dairy , rice and pasta.
Together these categories account for only
about 10% of the Group’s spend on food.
Food price inflation is not a new phenomenon.
We have managed it well for many years and
continue to do so, but now , through the MAP
framework, with greater intensity . The specific
actions we are taking to address food inflation
fall into three categories: purchasing and
supply chain efficiencies; unit cost efficiencies
including menu re-engineering; client and
consumer price increases.
So, in conclusion, food price inflation is well
understood and being acted upon. Crucially ,
despite the inflation we have seen this year, 
we have been able to hold our gross margins
steady through the combination of cost
efficiencies and price increases.
Processes and people
Our new monthly reporting processes and
regular business reviews with country
management teams ensure that we are all
constantly focused on the management and
performance of the five MAP value drivers.
Our country managing directors are now fully
empowered to run their businesses, operating
within a clearly defined MAP operating
framework. 
The new measures have also led to tighter
discipline and sounder governance. Approval
processes have been strengthened and
remuneration policies reviewed. The
Corporate Responsibility Committee, a 
subcommittee of the Board, continues 
to oversee all aspects of health and food
safety , environmental impacts, governance
and its reporting. 
Over the past 18 months we have made
significant management changes at a Board,
Executive Committee, Group head office and
country leadership level. We have put in place
succession planning and are focusing on
management development to ensure that 
we are developing our leadership strength 
for the future.
The introduction of MAP and the removal 
of divisional management structures have
resulted in greater transparency across 
the organisation. We now have greater
management strength at both country 
and head office level and this new global
leadership team has been central to driving
the improved performance.
Strategy and the future
Looking back over the achievements of the
last 18 months, strategically , we have defined 
a clearer focused strategy and launched MAP .
We have made good progress in developing
our support services business and we have
simplified the business by exiting non-core
businesses such as SSP , Selecta, Hotels and
other non-core assets. We have also reduced
the number of countries in which we operate
and considerably reduced our risk profile.
We believe we now have a focused and
transparent business model which will
generate significant opportunities to grow 
the top line organically , improve margins 
and grow profitability and generate significant
cash flow . We believe we are entering a new
phase of sustainable value creation.
There will be no change in our core 
strategy as we enter the next phase of our
development. We remain very excited by 
the prospects for growth with significant
outsourcing potential in our core food and
support service markets. We estimate that
outsourcing growth in the foodservice market
(valued at £150 billion) is at least 5% per
annum. The support services market is larger
than the foodservices market and growing 
at a faster rate. Operationally we will stay
focused on MAP and embed it deeper into 
the organisation. The drive for like for like
growth and increased operational efficiencies
will also continue. From this we will expect
further significant cash flow generation.
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive
28 November 2007 
New business
Base estate
Client sales 
and marketing
Consumer
sales and
marketing
Cost of food
Unit costs
Above unit
overheads
Above unit
overheads
Cost efficiencies – purchasing, menu planning,
supply chain and in-unit processes 
Labour productivity, labour and in-unit 
cost control
Like for like price and volume growth – more
services, retention, and innovative offers
Market development, good quality 
new business
Simplified organisation, control of 
discretionary spend
Map – Driving profitable growth 08 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing
MAP 1 focuses on delivering
profitable growth from existing
and new clients and developing
our penetration in our chosen
markets.
Growing our markets
We continue to see growth in our core
contract foodservice market. We see exciting
growth in every sector, especially Healthcare
and Education, driven by innovations such 
as ‘Steamplicity’, and in a growing Sports 
& Leisure market where we have had 
great success in winning contracts for 
prestigious events and major venues, such 
as The O2 in London, the largest sports and
entertainment complex in Europe, Kruger
National Park in South Africa and the 
Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre
(ADNEC) in the United Arab Emirates.
Our country MAP plans detail our approach
to developing each market. Our global 
sector forums, supported by our new market
development function, provide the means 
to identify and respond to emerging market
trends, facilitate the rapid transfer of
best practices from one part of the Group 
to another and drive innovation in our 
client offer. 
Last year we identified the support services
market as an attractive opportunity for a
number of reasons:
We have an existing capability to build 
on, with some industry leading expertise 
in certain services and sectors; 
It enables us to respond to an increasing
number of clients who are looking to
bundle services, including foodservice; and 
It complements the service and health 
and safety ethos that has gained us 
our reputation for excellence in the
foodservice market.
Our strategy is to develop the support services
market in a disciplined way by focusing on
selected services, sectors and countries. 
To give us real competitive advantage in this
market we have developed the Compass
Service Framework, using the very best
knowledge that we can find in the world to
ensure that we can deliver the world-class,
consistent capability that clients demand.
Driving like for like revenue
The size and depth of our client base and the
loyalty of our clients reflect the quality and
scope of the services we provide, and we are
proud to count organisations that are leaders
in their markets as our clients. 
The focus over the last 12 months and going
forward is to improve the discipline with
which we manage our existing client
relationships and improve the performance 
of our contract base. To achieve this we have
focused on the following areas:
Ensuring that we have the right contract
terms in place that accurately reflect the
services we are being paid to provide and
that we have the appropriate review
processes and controls in place to monitor
service levels, client satisfaction and price
indexation, the latter being vitally
important in managing through
inflationary cost increases;
Extending the services we provide, 
for example, adding vending or cleaning 
to a foodservice-only site, or increasing the
number of sites we support, and driving
like for like volume and average spend
increases in our existing operations; and
Proactively reviewing contracts where the
financial and operational performance 
does not meet expectations and taking the
opportunity to renegotiate these to put
them on the right basis going forward. 
More disciplined new business
As we develop our core markets it is vital that
we maintain a healthy new business pipeline,
supported by the necessary disciplines to
ensure that we take on the right business 
on the right terms. We have been putting in
place across all our businesses clear guidelines
and training for our sales teams on our key
contract terms. This is supported by a robust
approvals process for new business bids at a
country level and, dependent on the scale 
of the opportunity or the level of capital
investment required, review and approval 
at a Group level.
International clients management 
Through our international clients programme we 
are developing closer relationships with multinational
organisations. They recognise that we have the
geographical coverage and capability to deliver
outsourced food and support services to the same
world-class standards, globally and enable them to
achieve their own global objectives.
Steamplicity – market-leading innovation
Market-leading innovations like ‘Steamplicity’ are
helping us to open up new segments of our core
market sectors. Already being enjoyed by consumers
in the UK and Europe, ‘Steamplicity’ , uses patented
valve technology to healthily steam-cook meals within
minutes, retaining nutritional content and promoting
wellness and vitality. Ideal for providing hot meals
‘cooked to order’ for hospital patients, schools 
and environments where traditional kitchen space 
is often restricted. 
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
In response to our clients’ 
needs we have developed a
strong capability in a selected
range of support services 
that complement our core
foodservice offer. 09 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Our consumer focus 
is driving continued
innovation in our brands 
and foodservice offers.
MAP 2 – Consumer sales and marketing
MAP 2 reflects the importance of
having the right offers and retail
skills to drive growth in consumer
volume and spending.
Understanding consumer trends 
to drive innovation
Whilst we may be feeding people either in
their workplace, at college or in a hospital
restaurant, their demand for quality , choice
and value are equally as discerning as you
would find on the high street. Our focus on
understanding consumer needs and future
trends is driving the development and
innovation in our food offers, brands and
services. In Healthcare, for example, we have
led the market with the introduction of
personalised patient meal ordering, such as
our ‘Catering to Y ou’ service, which provides
greater flexibility , choice and individual
dietary control. Developed in the USA,
‘Catering to Y ou’ has already successfully
transferred to other countries.
Health, wellbeing and sustainability are
important topics that matter to our
consumers in every sector. As a global
foodservice company we fully understand 
the responsibility we have in helping
consumers make informed choices about 
diet and nutrition. Our in-house dieticians
work with our culinary , product development
and purchasing teams to create menu
programmes that combine menu planning,
labelling and promotion, and educational
training for our people to deliver food choices
that are safe, nutritious and balanced, and
suit the lifestyle and tastes of our consumers.
For example, in our US Education business,
‘Eat, Learn, Live’ is a market leading
commitment to the health and wellbeing 
of children and students from primary
schools to college. This holistic approach
drives innovations such as ‘Brake for
Breakfast’ and ‘Morning Editions’ providing 
a healthier start to the day . In addition we
help educate students to recognise and 
choose healthier options, provide a nutrition
and physical activity for the curriculum
‘Healthsmart’ and support health related 
in-classroom and outreach programmes.
Improved pricing management
In an increasingly ‘retail’ market we are
taking a more thorough approach to pricing
and are deploying pricing tools and processes
to enable our managers to undertake 
‘local market basket’ benchmarking which,
combined with national benchmarking,
enables a regular, fact-based pricing review
with our clients. For example, in our UK
business our units receive a regular ‘Price
Watch’ update providing information, based
on ‘high-street’ benchmarking research. 
Driving volume and spend
A greater understanding of our consumers
enables us to more effectively target offers
that entice consumers into more repeat visits
and encourage them to spend more per visit.
To achieve this we are developing a more
retail-focused approach to promotions, selling
skills and merchandising. In our Business &
Industry sector this might mean extending the
use of the restaurant through different day-
part offers, for example, broadening out from
a lunch time only service to include breakfast.
In Germany , in response to consumer
research we have developed a ‘Grab and Go’
offer as an additional service which is now
generating a like for like volume increase 
of 4%.
Controlling the cash
Learning from the retail sector, at the same
time as driving increased sales, we have
focused on ensuring that we are not losing this
cash to poor cash handling disciplines, stock
shrinkage or even theft. The experience of
a considerable number of trial sites for 
our ‘Profit Protection’ programme in the 
UK has shown that a focus on this area
(putting training and processes in place,
supported by the right technology) can 
lead to sales increases of up to 7%, cash
reconciliation improvements of up to 3% 
and a significant reduction in cash ‘loss’. 
Selling more beverages
In the Czech Republic we have doubled like for 
like beverage sales in our 350 Business & Industry
units. Through understanding consumer behaviours
we identified a significant opportunity to capture
incremental beverage sales by focusing on ‘hydrating’
people better in the workplace. Key initiatives were
based around expanding day-parts, increasing variety 
and choice and educating the consumer on the
importance of hydration. Solutions were to increase
range and package types, introduce larger pack
sizes, install incremental equipment (coolers and
racks), improve merchandising and place hydration
messages at point of sale.
Improved pricing through ‘Value Planning’
2,000 of our operating units in the USA are using 
the ‘Value Plan’, a simple but highly effective price
management and benchmarking tool which 
provides the framework for setting pricing strategies.
Through the ‘Value Plan’ we compare unit pricing
information against national and local ‘market basket’
benchmarks and inflation forecasts, to set our target
price points for each of our major categories. This
provides our Unit Managers with credible data to
develop their own unit pricing plan and set regular
pricing reviews with our clients. Performance is 
now being tracked through weekly ‘owners reports’
from each unit, comparing the actual price achieved
against our target price for the top selling categories.
Recently developed supporting tools such as
‘mapping the servery’ and ‘station profitability’ 
enable managers to analyse the performance of
individual areas of the restaurant. The impact of the
‘Value Plan’ is evidenced in like for like sales growth 
of 5% and an increase of up to 10% in average 
spend per transaction. 10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
MAP 3 – Cost of food
We spend over £3.5 billion a
year on food alone. Our MAP 3
objective is to buy the optimal
quality and range of food and
products to meet the needs of
our customers at the lowest
cost, whilst having the most
efficient distribution and 
in-unit production.
Managing food cost inflation
We have held our cost of sales flat throughout
a year in which we have seen food cost
inflation affect most food categories in most 
of the countries in which we operate. The
drivers of inflationary pressures stem from
growth in demand, such as population and
economic growth, changes in eating habits
and the increased use of staple crops for 
bio-fuels, combined with pressure on the
supply side brought about by reduced
harvests, often caused by extreme weather, 
or the impact of food scares.
Our ability to manage these inflationary
pressures is a result of:
The work we have done to include food
cost indexation in our contracts, giving 
us the contractual right to review pricing
with our clients;
Re-engineering our menus to switch food
items in response to forecast shortages 
and cost increases; and
Continuing to drive greater purchasing
efficiencies through supplier rationalisation
and compliance.
Leveraging our scale
Our approach to purchasing reflects the need
to have the right supplier relationships and
partnerships in place at a local, regional,
national and international level. We now 
have country purchasing teams in place to
drive purchasing efficiencies in support of
individual country business plans. For
example, in the UK we have a programme
called ‘85:10:5’, the purpose of which has 
been to move all of our purchasing spend 
into the following categories: 
85% spend or greater through approved
suppliers; 
10% spend or less through suppliers of
unique products or services; and
5% spend or less through suppliers who
meet specific, local contract requirements.
‘85:10:5’ provides the right levels of control
and compliance combined with the flexibility
to meet individual contract or service specific
needs. At the same time we are better
leveraging our purchasing volumes by 
moving to a smaller group of suppliers and 
a narrower product range, as we have done 
in countries like Germany where we have
consolidated 80% of our purchasing volume
with 11 suppliers and decreased the number
of products from 40,000 to 7,000.
We are also seeing significant benefits in
compliance, cost control and forecasting
through more effective menu planning. 
In Brazil, for example, our units have 
online access to a centralised menu planning
database and have reduced average meal
costs by up to 10%. 
Reducing in-unit production costs
Another focus area under MAP 3 is reducing
the cost of in-unit meal production. A key
component of this is reducing food waste,
targeting wastage in the production process
itself, overproduction or incorrectly ordered
or out-of-date stock. Programmes such as
‘Trim Trax’, which has been trialled in the
US Business & Industry and Education
sectors, are providing simple, high impact
tools to raise awareness of the issue of
wastage with our in-unit teams and embed
the disciplines necessary to reduce it.
Trim Trax – reducing wastage
The ‘Trim Trax’ programme has been developed in 
the US Business & Industry sector to help reduce 
in-unit food wastage, focusing on the most frequent
reasons we have identified for production loss –
overproduction, out-of-date inventory and wastage 
in the food preparation itself. The programme
provides some very simple, very visible ways to
reinforce the message about reducing waste for our
in-unit teams. One simple, but effective way is giving
each member of the food production team their 
own individual ‘Trim Trax’ food waste bin, which has
the volume recorded, categorised and assigned a
value each day. Results are then tracked, with the
team identifying actions to reduce wastage and
recognition going to the best performers. 
Reducing supply chain costs
Our newly created European Consolidation Centre 
in Southern Spain has reduced supply chain costs 
by having fresh produce delivered directly to this
facility from our own nominated growers, which we
then quality assure and consolidate for dispatch 
to our distributors in 12 European countries. By
consolidating our spend and buying at source we
have significantly improved our buying price, quality
and traceability, reduced distribution costs, and
reduced the number of lorries on the road. We
received the UK Institute of Grocery Distribution’ s
2007 Food Industry Award for Supply Chain
Excellence in recognition of our fresh produce 
buying strategy.
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
We are addressing food 
cost efficiencies through 
a systematic approach to
menu planning, purchasing
and in-unit processes. 11 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
MAP 4 – Unit costs
MAP 4 focuses on driving 
cost efficiencies from our 
£5.5 billion of unit labour and 
other in-unit, non-food costs.
Improving labour productivity
Our objective is always to deliver the right
level of service in the most efficient way
possible, by ensuring that we have the right
number of trained people, performing the
right activities in the right place at the right
time, and have the flexibility to absorb
increases in volume.
With the focus on labour productivity
through MAP we have been deploying tools
and processes across our business to improve
our labour optimisation. These are scalable 
to suit the differing sizes of our operations
and range from simple unit-based labour
scheduling tools that track and forecast labour
hours against sales, through to intensive 
on-site reviews by productivity specialists 
in our major sites. These programmes, such 
as ‘Performance Plus’ in our US Healthcare
business, involve detailed time and motion
studies to analyse labour scheduling and
efficiency in all areas of the operation, from
food production to mapping front of house
service needs against consumer footfall. This
gives a clear picture of the optimal labour
hour requirements on a unit level, allowing us
to adjust rostering and employee hours
accordingly . 
With the work that we have been doing 
in this area we continue to deepen our
understanding of the key drivers of
productivity and how to measure, report 
and manage it more effectively .
Effectively managing labour and
ancillary costs
Through MAP we are also exercising better
control over other labour costs such as
absenteeism, overtime and third party 
agency spend.
We have put in place processes and disciplines
to improve our management of salary and
benefit costs and control labour cost inflation.
These include local sector benchmarking, 
a robust process for managing national or
sector wage agreements and reviewing
benefits to ensure that those we provide 
are competitive with local market practices,
are valued by our people and that, where 
we use external providers for benefits such 
as health insurance, we are leveraging our
scale effectively .
Along with food costs, we are now including
labour costs as part of our pricing indexation
models, which drive our pricing strategy ,
product tariffs and which we use in our
contract pricing review process.
Reducing unit overheads
Unit overheads are all the remaining non-
food and non-labour costs associated with
managing our units such as uniforms, linen,
crockery , laundry/cleaning, utilities and
occupancy costs where we have them.
Through good local initiatives and more
thorough analysis and measurement we 
have made solid progress in the last year,
resulting in a reduction in unit overheads 
as a percentage of revenue, which we aim 
to continue. Improving efficiency
Good progress is being made to further reduce costs
in the UK business. Unit labour scheduling is now
receiving intensive focus, following the creation of 
a dedicated business efficiency team. This team 
is directly supporting our operations in embedding
processes and disciplines to more effectively 
manage labour scheduling, temporary labour, the
management of payroll, sickness and holiday in our
units and the better usage of reporting tools. Integral
to this is the roll-out of a communication and training
programme for all our Unit Managers focusing
attention on getting the right people in the right 
place at the right time in order to maximise sales 
and improve customer service and productivity. 
Effective labour cost management
Based on the work done in Australia we have
developed tools which are now being used as a 
global template to more effectively measure and 
cost labour turnover and the use of agency staff at a
country and operating unit level, identifying previous
hidden labour costs. In Australia we have seen a 
1.6% reduction in direct labour costs as a result of
accurate KPI measurement and the implementation
of tailored retention strategies, improved absence
management and reduction in agency spend.
Improving efficiency and
costs in our units is a real
opportunity that we are
starting to address. 12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
HR shared services
T o reduce overlap and duplication in its HR support
functions our US business has created a central
Human Resources Service Centre, as a single 
point of contact on HR related issues for over 85,000
employees. This has reduced HR overhead costs 
by 5% and led to speedier and more effective issue
resolution, reduced management intervention and
improved employee satisfaction.
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
We are improving overhead
efficiency by simplifying the
way we run the business
and tighter control of
discretionary spend.
MAP 5 – Above unit overheads
As a Group we have £800
million of above unit costs
associated with managing 
the business. MAP 5 focuses 
on how we create a simpler
organisational model with 
fewer layers of management
and less bureaucracy. 
Simplifying management structures
We have made significant inroads in reducing
duplicate layers of management and putting
in place simpler, affordable structures 
that give greater transparency through 
the business and improve the speed of
decision making.
To achieve this we have dismantled the
previous divisional structure creating a clear
line of sight between the businesses and 
the Group. This is supported by our new
Group financial and non-financial reporting
framework which, combined with regular
business reviews of country MAP plans, 
gives us greater visibility and understanding
of the underlying performance of each
business and makes us better placed to
respond to opportunities and risks.
The management teams in our countries 
are empowered to run and develop their
businesses within a ‘light’, non-bureaucratic
Group framework. This relies on a culture 
of openness, honesty and transparency ,
supported by good communication and the
disciplines and good governance expected 
of a major international group. 
We have taken a similar approach within 
the countries themselves, focusing first 
on businesses like France, Japan and the
Netherlands, and reorganised how we
manage the business to create much leaner,
more effective structures.
In developing countries or those where 
we don’t have density we have developed
successful zone management structures, 
with a single management team overseeing 
a cluster of countries within a specific region,
for example, Central and Eastern Europe, 
our Central Asia, Middle East and Africa
(CAMEA) remote site businesses and the
Nordic region.
Consolidated back office functions
As part of reducing overlap and duplication
we have consolidated common back office
functions, retaining separate functions only
where they are genuinely sector specific. 
The UK and the USA are good examples of
where we have created a more streamlined,
shared services model for HR, reducing cost
and improving service to our front-line teams. 
