 02 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Our strategy focuses on the
outsourced foodservice and
support services markets,
building on the existing
expertise and strengths we 
have as a Group. 
We estimate that outsourcing growth in the foodservice
market (which we estimate is £150 billion) is at least 5%
per annum. As market leader, we will strive for more and
faster penetration of the foodservice market that is still self
operated. The support services market is significantly
larger than the foodservice market and growing at a 
faster rate.
Our marketplace
Group at a glance
We are a world leading provider
of food and support services.
Every day we serve literally
millions of people around the
world, whether it is to provide
them with a meal, a cup of coffee,
a clean office or helping to keep
the entire workspace around
them working at its best. 
Business & Industry
No-one understands food at work quite like we do, 
whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any 
other work environment. Our consumer focus drives 
the development and innovation in our food offers, 
brands and service to deliver the optimum solution from
restaurants and café style outlets to coffee bars and
vending. We also provide a selected range of support
services that complement our foodservice offer. This
includes cleaning, grounds maintenance, hospitality 
and reception services.
Fine Dining
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working 
with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional
gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to
executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural
events and world famous venues. 
Healthcare & Seniors
One of the most demanding markets in which we 
operate. The very highest standards of food safety and
hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed
understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care for
have made us a leader in this market. Our offer is broader
than simply foodservice for patients, staff and visitors, 
and includes a range of complementary support services
including services such as cleaning and housekeeping.
Education
From primary schools to some of the world’ s most renowned
universities, we provide a nutritious, well-balanced diet to
fuel the development of young minds and bodies. 
Sports & Leisure
We have unparalleled experience in providing high 
quality foodservice for some of the world’ s most 
prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor attractions
and social events. In addition we have the specialist in-
house expertise and resources to provide a single source
for the complete marketing and management of corporate
hospitality packages.
Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites
We provide vital workplace support for people working 
in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in 
the world from oil and gas to major construction sites 
and remote mining locations. Our technical and logistical
competence, commitment to health and safety and ability
to effectively mobilise contracts have earned us an enviable
reputation for providing fully integrated food and support
services for global clients with workers around the world. 
Vending
Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and we
are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions to our
customers. In North America this is through Canteen, our
specialist vending operation.
We have unparalleled experience in providing these
services to people in a whole range of environments –
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting
or cultural events, or in remote environments. Our
proven capability in each of these markets results
from our sector focus, with dedicated operating
businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
This in-depth understanding of the demands of these
markets and the needs of our customers drives our
market-leading innovation, our operating efficiency
and ultimately the quality of the service our
customers experience.
Leading sector expertise
Our aim is to achieve market leadership in the sectors
and countries that we have identified as having real
prospects for strong long-term organic growth and
provide the global capability necessary to grow our
international client base.
Our guiding principles form the basis of our approach 
to delivering this strategy:
Health, safety and environment first
Never to compromise on the health and safety of our
customers and our people, and to manage responsibly
the impact that our business has on the environment.
Delivering for clients and consumers
T o earn the continued loyalty of our customers by
consistently demonstrating why we are the first choice
for quality, service, value and innovation.
Developing our people and valuing diversity
T o value and recognise the diversity and contribution 
of our people. We create a work environment that is
challenging and provides the opportunities and support
for everyone to develop, learn and succeed.
Profitable growth
T o deliver shareholder value through disciplined,
sustainable growth, underpinned by strong governance,
that contributes to and leverages the benefits of our
global scale.
Constant focus on performance and efficiency 
T o deliver the highest quality and performance, 
whilst relentlessly driving to be the lowest cost, most
efficient provider.
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Healthcare & Seniors
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
North America
Continental Europe
United Kingdom
Rest of the World
Market sectors and operating companies
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World
In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing
multi-sector solutions. For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan. 03 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
£4,162m
Revenue
2006: £4,290m
North America
£261m
Operating profit
3
2006: £245m
For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang
Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event,
the Governor’ s Ball. In the same month Compass’
foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th 
Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players’ Party 
and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this 
year’ s Super Bowl.
Regional highlights
Continued excellent progress
delivering 6% organic revenue growth.
Operating profit from continuing
operations increased by £39 million 
on a constant currency basis to 
£261 million (2006: £222 million), 
a 60 basis point margin improvement. 
The Business & Industry sector has
been driven by innovation in our offer,
delivering 4% like for like revenue
growth. 
In Healthcare, 7% organic growth 
from increased cross-selling between
Morrison, our foodservice business,
and Crothall, our support services
business. 
Healthy eating programmes and 
the strength of the Chartwells brand
contributed to 9% organic revenue
growth in the Education sector. 
Good growth in Levy, our Sports 
& Leisure business.
Continued good progress with 
our business in Canada.
Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy .
£1,931m
Revenue
2006: £1,882m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
19%
2006: 18%
United Kingdom
£107m
Operating profit
3
2006: £107m
The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched
in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a
leading provider of executive hospitality , dining and
business support services to its prestigious blue-chip
clients; including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in
London, law firms and leading organisations. The move
consolidated our previous brand operations under one
strong identity and management structure. Our new
business goals reflect a commitment to innovation,
service, lifestyle and simplicity .
Regional highlights
Revenue in the UK was £1,931 million
(2006: £1,882 million), growth of 
2% on an organic basis.
A solid result with, as expected,
operating profits in line with last year.
Largely completed the turnaround or
exit of poor performing contracts.
The Education sector has stabilised
following a difficult period.
We have continued to reorganise the
business to drive further efficiencies.
We expect a broadly similar
performance in 2008.
£2,553m
Revenue
2006: £2,484m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
25%
2006: 24%
Continental Europe
£151m
Operating profit
3
2006: £122m
Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid
expansion of the senior-living market. Building on our
experience of providing foodservice in the residential
care homes market, we have developed a delivered
meals service for senior and handicapped people 
at home; a model for other countries with ageing
populations looking for an alternative to moving 
people into rest homes. In the last year we have
delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home
providing a varied, healthy diet.
Regional highlights
Organic revenue growth has doubled 
to 4%, with good growth opportunities
for the future. 
On a constant currency basis, growth 
of £31 million operating profit from
continuing operations to £151 million
(2006: £120 million) represents a margin
improvement of 100 basis points.
In Spain, like for like growth, driven 
by new offerings and an increase in
consumer numbers, together with 
new business in the Healthcare and
Education sectors, have driven 
organic revenue growth of 13%. 
Continued high activity in the oil 
and gas industry in the Nordic region
contributed to 14% organic revenue
growth, while the focus on healthy
eating continues to drive volumes
through much of the region. 
Good turnaround in previously 
underperforming countries such 
as France and the Netherlands.
We are becoming more established 
in the Eastern European market, 
which is growing well.
£1,622m
Revenue
2006: £1,611m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
16%
2006: 16%
Rest of the World
£64m
Operating profit
3
2006: £47m
T engizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron managed joint venture
in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support
services at their Atyrau and T engiz facilities after a
competitive re-tendering process. This is one of our
largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our
people providing a range of services, including full 
daily catering services and the full maintenance of
offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
Regional highlights
Another very strong year, delivering
£64 million operating profit from
continuing operations (2006: 
£43 million on a constant currency
basis), an increase of £21 million.
Australia continues to deliver strong
organic revenue growth driven by the
ongoing buoyancy of the extraction
industries.
Encouraging progress in Japan, where
the focus on driving efficiency and 
restructuring the business has resulted
in good margin improvement.
Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and
Dubai have seen good revenue and
margin growth.
Good revenue growth with some
margin improvement in Latin America.
Looking forward there remains
significant opportunity to further
develop our businesses in the 
Rest of the World both in size and
operating performance.
Regional review at a glance
Percentage of 
Group revenue
40%
2006: 42%
See footnotes on page 1.
