 06 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REPORT
Aegis delivered robust
results in 2010, during which
we saw a return to growth 
in advertising and market
research.
“
A year of
outperformance
ensuring good
forward momentum
The positive momentum 
from 2010 at both Aegis
Media and Synovate has
continued into 2011.
”
“
” 07 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Aegis delivered a robust set of financial results in 2010, during
which we saw a return to growth in advertising and market
research, with both Aegis Media and Synovate outperforming
their respective markets. 
We took significant steps in delivering on our objectives for our
two businesses: positioning Aegis Media for a more convergent
media environment and consolidating Synovate’s position in a
changing market dynamic. We made good progress in increasing
our exposure to both faster-growing regions and digital media
platforms and we aim to increase this exposure further in the
future, supported by the delivery of continued organic revenue
growth and an on-going focus on acquisitions in these areas.
Our strong operational and financial performance in 2010 was
testament to the hard work and commitment of our people and,
in my first year as Aegis’s CEO, I am grateful to all of our people
for their continued support. This performance, together with
good new business momentum at Aegis Media and Synovate’s
healthy orders on hand position going into 2011, ensures the
Group is well placed for the future. 
Delivering on key strategic objectives in 2010 / We have high
quality, focused senior management teams at both Aegis Media
and Synovate which were further strengthened by a number of
key appointments and promotions in 2010. The management
teams have the right balance of energy and experience to
develop our businesses going forward. In 2010, we were focused
on delivering six key strategic objectives: 
1. Increasing global reach, in particular increasing our exposure
to faster-growing regions;
2. Strengthening our product portfolio and service range,
including growing digital revenue at Aegis Media;
3. Building on our leading market positions and increasing our
presence in key markets, reflecting client needs;
4. Developing international clients and building new business
momentum;
5. Targeting potential acquisitions, subject to strategic and
financial criteria; and
6. Driving revenue growth and cost control to improve our profit
margins. 
We will continue to focus on these key strategic objectives,
ensuring our businesses remain well positioned for future
growth. 
1. Increasing global reach, in particular increasing our exposure
to faster-growing regions / Our geographic profile has
changed significantly over the last five years, demonstrated
by our increased presence in the faster-growing regions of
Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle
East and Africa over this period. Last year, Group revenue
contribution from these regions increased to 33%, from 20%
in 2006, following the acquisition of Mitchell Communication
Group (“Mitchell”), Australia’s leading marketing
communications agency in November 2010. 
Mitchell, Aegis’s largest acquisition in 11 years, along 
with our investment in, and joint venture with, Charm
Communications Inc (“Charm”), one of China’s leading media
buying and advertising agencies, give us a significantly
strengthened base from which to further improve our already
strong position in the Asia Pacific region.
2. Strengthening our product portfolio and service range,
including growing digital revenue at Aegis Media / In 2010,
Aegis Media and Synovate management reviewed and
optimised their respective product portfolios and service
ranges. This will ensure we are well placed to meet the needs
of clients operating across a range of different markets, using
a wide range of media and research platforms for their ever-
changing requirements. 
At Aegis Media, our digital capability is at the heart of our
strategy, with digital contributing approximately 32% of Aegis
Media’s revenue in 2010. Going foward, we expect the
proportion of digital revenues to continue to grow as a result
of continued acquisitions and anticipated organic growth from
our existing businesses in this area. In addition, to meet
increased client need for improved accountability,
performance measurement and returns on investment, we
have ensured that data management and platforms at both
businesses continue to be fully integrated into our product
and service offerings. Also in 2010, our market-leading CCS
(Consumer Connection System) insight product was extended
into 27 markets around the world. 
3. Building on our leading market positions and increasing our
presence in key markets, reflecting client needs / We
continue to build on our leading market positions, whilst also
growing our presence in key markets, reflecting the needs of
our clients. In 2010, we achieved this organically at both
businesses, as exemplified by strong performances in North
America and faster-growing regions. We also improved our
position in certain markets via acquisition, as illustrated by
the Mitchell transaction in Australia and our agreement to
acquire a majority stake in COMCON, a leading Russian
market research business, announced in December 2010. 
As a result, we are now the leading player in the Australian
media market and we will become the second largest custom
research provider in Russia. 
4. Developing international clients and building new business
momentum / In 2010, new business momentum remained
strong at both businesses. Last year, Aegis Media delivered
over $2.0 billion in net new business wins, including a
number of new international assignments such as Beiersdorf
in the US and Germany, ING in Italy and France and Deutsche
Bank around the world. Aegis Media succeeded in winning 99
additional market appointments from our major international
clients, including Diageo, Nokia, Kellogg’s and Disney.
Synovate was also successful in winning a number of major
multi-national projects around the world in 2010, for
companies including Unilever, Coca-Cola and HSBC. In
addition, client retention at both businesses was very good
during the year. This successful trend for both businesses has
continued so far in 2011, with $1.5 billion of net new business
wins already achieved at Aegis Media and a strong orders on
hand position at Synovate at the start of the year. 
5. Targeting potential acquisitions, subject to strategic and
financial criteria / Given our strong balance sheet and improved
debt profile, we are able to re-focus on acquisitions with a
view to extending our capabilities and driving growth. We have
been and will continue to target acquisitions which provide
scale, infill and innovation, with a focus on small to medium-
sized bolt-ons in both faster growing regions and digital. 
All acquisition targets are evaluated against strategic and
investment criteria, including management and cultural fit,
the delivery of good returns against financial hurdles and
earnings accretion in the first full year after they are completed. 
BUSINESS REVIEW 08 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REPORT
(continued)
Management’s re-focused strategic approach bolstered Aegis
Media’s performance in 2010 / Aegis Media’s management team
implemented a re-focused strategic approach in 2010, the Power
Brand strategy, based on delivering a consistent range of
services integrated across one operating model through Carat,
Vizeum, Posterscope, isobar and iProspect on a network basis.
This re-focused strategic approach helped to support our
performance in 2010 and will continue to do so going forward. 
Aegis Media delivered organic revenue growth of 5.7% in 2010,
with 7.4% organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter of the
year. This was supported by another excellent new business
performance, with net new business wins of $2.0 billion in
billings. Operating margin was 18.6%, up 40 basis points at
reported rates and 60 basis points at constant currency. 
Our businesses in faster-growing regions performed extremely
well in 2010. Our North American management team achieved
further progress in revitalising our businesses there, while the
health of Western European markets remained mixed. 
Operational delivery was also driven by our excellent new business
performance in 2010. New business wins were characterised by
a return to a strong competitive position in the US, with Beiersdorf,
Diageo, Relativity Media and Red Bull won during the year . Towards
the end of the year, our North American team was also successful
in renewing our long-standing Pfizer/Wyeth contract. Elsewhere
around the world new business wins included Disney in
Australia, Tiffany across Asia Pacific, Orange in Spain, Nokia 
in the Middle East and Anheuser Busch InBev in the UK. This
new business momentum has continued into 2011, with a
number of wins already recorded so far this year including
Disney and Home Depot in North America, Fastweb in Italy, Kraft
Cadbury in South Africa and Electronic Arts across Latin America. 
Aegis Media’s performance in 2011 and beyond will be supported
by the acquisition of Mitchell, which was completed in November
2010. The combination of Aegis Media’s global network and
Mitchell’s outstanding capabilities in the Pacific region will
create a compelling offering for clients, positioning us for
continued growth in the wider Asia Pacific region. 
The acquisition of Mitchell is a good example. There is a
strong strategic and cultural fit and we expect the transaction
to be earnings accretive in 2011 at current exchange rates by
low to mid-single digits. This is despite Mitchell shareholders
taking up the maximum allotment of Aegis shares available
as part of the consideration for the transaction.
6. Driving revenue growth and cost control to improve our profit
margins / Emerging from recession, upward pressure on
staff costs is a growing feature as we ensure competitive
salaries, increase headcount to support new business and 
re-introduce incentives to retain key staff to support the growth
of our business. Total overheads were up 5.3% at constant
currency during the year. To counter these cost pressures, 
we will maintain a clear focus on cost control and efficiencies
throughout the Group. This focus is a key part of our culture,
with management incentives aligned to margin performance.
Strong operating and financial performance by Aegis in 2010 /
Aegis’s robust underlying operational performance in 2010,
supported by management focus on these strategic objectives,
translated into a strong set of financial results. 
Total revenue for the year was £1,459.4m, up 8.4% at reported
rates and up 6.4% at constant currency. Organic revenue growth
for the Group was 5.8%, driven in particular by strong top line
growth from our businesses in North America and faster-
growing regions. 
As was expected at the half year stage, both businesses
delivered a continuing trend of improvement in organic growth 
in the second half, compared to the first half. As we anticipated,
a combination of more challenging prior year revenue growth
comparatives in the fourth quarter and the relative revenue
weighting between the third and fourth quarters meant the trend
rate of organic revenue growth was impacted in the fourth
quarter of the year:
Aegis delivered a strong improvement in underlying operating profit
for the year to £192.2m, an increase of 12.9% from the prior year
at reported rates, and 12.3% at constant currency. There was a
modest improvement in Group operating margin to 13.2% during
2010, an increase of 60 basis points from the prior year. 
Our underlying earnings per share on a fully diluted basis
increased by 5.2% at reported rates and 4.1% at constant
currency, to 10.1p from 9.6p in the prior year.
Aegis Group Quarter Half year Full Year 
Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10
Organic revenue change % 1.1 4.7 9.7 7.0 3.2 8.1 5.8 09 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Strong performance recovery at Synovate / Following the global
economic downturn in 2009, which had a significant impact on
the ad hoc custom market research sector, 2010 saw a strong
recovery in performance at Synovate. Sales rose 6.7%, with organic
gross revenue increasing 5.9%, with organic gross revenue
growth of 6.3% in the fourth quarter. Our strong performance 
in the second half, drove operating margin to 8.0%, up 90 basis
points at reported rates and at constant currency. 
Management’s clear focus on driving profitable sales, supported
by a broad geographic network and extensive product portfolio,
ensured an encouraging performance from Synovate in 2010,
with a healthy 8.8% underlying increase in orders on hand
achieved at year end. Performances from the vast majority of
businesses across the Synovate network performed very well 
in 2010, particularly our business in North America.
With a strong foundation now in place, management is
implementing a re-focused strategic approach to improve
Synovate’s long term position in the global custom market
research sector around the world. This strategic approach 
aims to increase traction and build momentum with key global
clients, provide competitive differentiation through operational
excellence, prioritise gateway geographies which represent 
key markets for international projects and expand our existing
capabilities in key industrial verticals and research
methodologies. The implementation of the first phase of this 
re-focused strategic approach across the organisation will 
be completed by the end of 2011. 
Balance sheet strengthened & capital discipline maintained /
During 2010, we took a number of actions to strengthen our
financial position. In April 2010, we launched a convertible bond,
due in April 2015, to raise £190.6m, including the exercise of an
over-allotment option. In July 2010, we re-financed our £450.0m
revolving credit facility, lengthening its tenure to 2015. 
Net debt fell from £398.4m at the end of the first half to £331.3m
at the end of 2010, a year-on-year increase of £74.1m from the
end of 2009. This increase was mainly due to acquisition spend,
partially offset by strong operating cash flows in the second half
of 2010. 
Our covenant positions remain robust and we had undrawn
available facilities at the end of the year totalling £450.0m 
(2009: £376.4m). Looking ahead, we aim to ensure that capital
continues to be sensibly allocated and our cash pools remain
well managed.
Outlook / Our clients’ advertising and research expenditure for
the first few months of this year is ahead of the same period in
2010, and their current indicated budgets for the remainder of
2011 suggest that this year-on-year trend will continue. In
addition, the momentum Aegis has built through 2010 has
continued into the first few months of 2011, with Aegis Media
winning $1.5bn in net new business so far this year and Synovate
starting the year with a healthy orders on hand position. 
Given these positive signals for the short term outlook, and in
spite of the relatively limited medium term visibility, we are
increasingly optimistic about the prospects for our businesses
this year. We therefore expect Group organic revenue growth for
2011 to be at least in line with the level achieved last year. 
We experienced upward pressure on staff costs at both
businesses in the second half of 2010. This will continue in 2011,
with increasing headcount and pay reviews particularly in high
growth regions, as well as an increase in bonuses where
performance justifies. 
Despite these cost pressures, given the Group’s momentum and
our expectations for organic revenue growth this year, we expect
underlying operating profit to improve further in 2011. 
Jerry Buhlmann
Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Group plc
