 Aegis’s 2010 performance,
together with the successful
management of change 
and continuity, gives us
confidence as we face 
into 2011.
04 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
”
“
We continue to deliver 
an improved underlying
operating performance 
in a demanding market
environment.
”
“
2010 was 
a year of
further
progress 05 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Continued progress / I am pleased to report that 2010 was a
year of further progress. We continue to deliver an improved
underlying operating performance in a demanding market
environment with the main achievements including:
– A return to full year revenue growth at our Synovate market
research business with improved sales, profits and margins
following its recovery in the second half of 2009
– Continued strong above market growth from our Media
division with good organic growth, continued new business
wins and increases in underlying operating profit and
margins
– Overall, our underlying results, pre-exceptionals, delivered an
8.4% increase in revenue, a 12.9% increase in operating profit
and a 5.2% increase in earnings per share.
These advances are covered in more detail in the Chief Executive
and Business reviews. A significant additional focus in the year
has been the integration of our diverse and specialised media
and digital services into an improved client-facing suite of
services.
The strategy of strengthening our balance sheet, extending 
our long term debt profile and adding acquisition capability,
announced last year, has worked well with the use of a US
private placement and a successful convertible bond issue. That
put us in a position to renegotiate our previously expiring five
year revolving credit facility of £450 million. We now have in place
a new five year deal, on acceptable terms. These actions have
been reinforced by the continuing benefits of a strengthened
reporting and cash management environment.
The strength of the balance sheet has allowed fuller
development of a much more strategic programme on
acquisitions. At Synovate we announced an agreement to acquire
a majority stake in a leading Russian research provider to
strengthen our position in that market. We have developed our
media market position in China, with the Charm joint venture
and investment, and completed the £229.1 million Mitchell
acquisition in Australia in November. This transaction has
transformed our market position there and increased our digital
profile and is expected to be an earnings enhancing acquisition
in its first full year. It has also allowed us to further strengthen
our Board with the appointment of Harold Mitchell, the founder
of Mitchell with his media market knowledge and experience, 
as an Executive Director.
Your board & management / On the subject of Board matters we
were pleased to appoint Jerry Buhlmann, the experienced Chief
Executive of our Media Division, as CEO of Aegis Group plc
(“Aegis”) as a whole. He took up the post on 1st May 2010 and
brings continuity, energy and expertise. He was selected with the
assistance of an externally led evaluation process, and has made
a strong and effective start allowing me to step back
immediately to a Chairman-only role, whilst maintaining
maximum continuity for the business.
Looking back, your Company has successfully achieved a very
full reorganisation and near replacement of its Board and senior
management over the last two years. At the same time it has
dealt effectively with the downturns in the world economy and 
in many of our major markets from late 2008 through 2009. 
We have significantly raised our operating performance and
strengthened key functions, the benefits of which are reflected 
in our results for 2010. There is still work to do but we now have
in place an effective and settled Board, a strengthened reporting
process and a more cohesive and better directed operational 
and strategic management team under the leadership of a very
capable Chief Executive.
The latest proposals on Corporate Governance recommend that
Boards consider on a “comply or explain” basis the annual
election of all its directors. This is a new initiative and will take
some time to settle and for Boards everywhere to consider fully
the merits and demerits of this recommendation. It is not
without risks. In this year the Board proposes to follow the
previous re-election guidelines by putting up for election those
appointed in 2010, Messrs Harold Mitchell, Executive Director
and Robert Philpott, Executive Director, and the second longest
serving director, Lorraine Trainer who is due for re-election on
the three year rule. 
The Board has also discussed the question of a formal Board
evaluation. Given, however, the significant number of changes
made, recent appointments and the part year period of the new
Chief Executive, the Board decided to defer that process in 2010.
I can confirm all members of the Board have made an effective
and significant contribution to the Board and the Company for
which I thank them.
Summary / The strong performance in 2010 together with the
successful management of change and continuity gives us
confidence as we face into 2011. Markets and the world economy
have improved but there are still significant regional difficulties
and areas of strategic imbalance. We have made strategic
acquisitions and investments in Russia, Australia and in China.
We remain focused on sustainable growth. We expect to continue
to face a demanding and competitive market environment. We
continue to focus on improvements and the development of
quality integrated services which deliver support and solutions
for our clients. We believe that we have the strength and
resource to continue our progress.
Dividend / Given our confidence in the short term outlook for
the Company, the Board has recommended a total dividend of
2.75 per share for 2010. This represents a 10% increase on the
prior year. 
Our people / Over the last three years, our employees have
worked in a demanding market environment. Their success and
efforts have been rewarded by our performance in 2010. Our
future success depends on their continued efforts. On behalf of
the Board I would like to thank them for the progress they have
made and their continuous endeavours to further transform and
improve our Company and its services.
John Napier
Chairman
BUSINESS REVIEW
