 Group at a glance 
Computacenter is Europe’s leading independent
provider of IT infrastructure services. To help 
our customers maximise the value of IT to their
businesses, we offer services at every stage of
infrastructure deployment. 
Our corporate and government clients are served
by a network of branch offices across the UK,
Germany, France, Austria, Luxembourg and
Belgium, and through our international partners, 
at locations throughout Europe, Asia Pacific and
North America.
2 Computacenter plc
Coverage
United Kingdom
Number of employees: 4,629
Aberdeen, Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff,
Edinburgh, Gatwick, Hatfield, Leeds, London,
Maidenhead, Manchester, Milton Keynes, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, Reading, Swindon, Watford
Computacenter’s European regions
Belgium and Luxembourg
Number of employees: 93
Brussels, Luxembourg
France
Number of employees: 1,300
Paris, Bordeaux, Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, 
Nantes, Nice, Orléans, Pau, Rennes, Rouen, 
Strasbourg, Toulouse
Germany
Number of employees: 3,666
Aachen, Berlin, Cologne, Essen, Frankfurt, Hamburg,
Hannover, Kerpen, Kiel, Ludwigshafen, Munich,
Nürnberg, Stuttgart
Austria
Number of employees: 224
Gotzis, Graz, Innsbruck, Klagenfurt, Linz, Vienna 3 Computacenter plc
Computacenter advises customers on 
their IT strategy, implements appropriate
technologies and manages elements 
of their IT infrastructures on their behalf. 
At every stage we aim to help customers
minimise the cost and maximise the
business value of their IT expenditure.
We advise
We offer our customers trusted advice 
on such matters as the planning and
design of IT infrastructures, or the choice
of specific technologies. We are able to
assist in preparing a business justification,
specifying and testing a solution, and
providing ongoing advice on how to
optimise availability and performance. 
Our Solutions Centre has added
significantly to our depth of service 
in this area, enabling us to compare
different technology solutions for our
customers in an off-site test environment.
We implement
We procure, configure and deliver a 
wide range of IT products across multiple
platforms, and with our consultancy and
project management expertise we can
ensure successful integration with the
customer’s existing technology. Typical
projects include major technology roll-outs
across multiple locations, consolidating
widely dispersed IT infrastructures,
implementing local or remote hosted
environments and optimising our
customers’ security, application, network
and storage platforms.
We manage
We help our customers minimise the
technology management burden 
by managing elements of their
infrastructures on their behalf. Our
outsourcing services range from 
managing on-site or centralised help
desks, through responsibility for all 
large-scale infrastructure moves and
changes, to the provision of ongoing
technology support, including remote
monitoring and intervention services.
Computacenter ensures high standards 
of service by committing to contracted
service levels agreed with the customer.
Business activity
1 Excluding results of associated undertakings and joint ventures.
2 Calculated as profit before tax excluding non-operating exceptional items.
3 Excluding non-operating exceptional items.
Highlights 2002
2002 2001
£million £million
Group revenue £1,926.7 £2,093.4
Group operating profit
1
£56.2 £55.1
Profit before tax
2
£54.2 £51.1
Diluted earnings per share
3
19.3p 17.9p
Year-end Group employee numbers 6,022 5,894
2002 revenue by country
£millions
UK 1,597.3
France 316.8
BeLux 12.6
Austria 58.9
Germany 737.0
2002 Computacenter Group revenues
2002 revenues of GE CompuNet in Germany and GECITS Austria, acquired by Computacenter in January 2003
