 6 Computacenter plc
UK
The desire of customers to improve the
cost effectiveness of their IT management
helped drive Computacenter’s managed
services growth in the UK, where our
contract base grew 38.6%, compared
with 19.9% in 2001.
As a result of winning the BT desktop
services contract early in the year, 
some 350 former BT staff transferred 
to Computacenter under TUPE regulations.
The award of this contract reflects the
investment we have made in developing
our outsourcing capabilities. We are
continuing to pursue a strategy of growth
in our managed services activities to achieve
economies of scale, raise barriers to entry
and secure our competitive advantage. 
Additionally, in 2002 we won major
managed service contracts with BAA 
and Hays. For BAA we will provide HP
technology, together with hardware
support and the management of moves
and changes. The five-year contract
covers approximately 10,000 seats,
mostly at Gatwick and Heathrow airports.
Our three-year contract with Hays
includes technology supply, hardware
support and technical consultancy.
Other managed services successes
included wins at HBOS, the UK
Government’s Environment Agency,
JPMorgan Chase and North Yorkshire
County Council, as well as contract
extensions with such customers as 
Thus and Scottish Power. 
To support our managed services growth,
we continued to invest in the development
of tools and processes, in particular the
integrated Services Management Tool
Suite (SMTS) that we use to track and
manage user support requests. By
deploying one or more SMTS components
we have been able to improve service
levels for many of our customers. A related
investment has enabled us to streamline
national handling of our customers’ support
calls, with e-mails and phone enquiries
automatically routed to the analyst with
the most appropriate skills or experience.
By integrating this system with SMTS, 
we are confident in our ability to further
improve service levels and drive down costs. 
Hardware support services were an
important focus in 2002. In the course of
the year, we re-engineered our maintenance
services to deliver greater efficiency, which
contributed to a growth rate of 38.8% 
Chief Executive’s review
Mike Norris
“The desire of customers to improve the cost
effectiveness of their IT management helped 
drive Computacenter’s managed services growth
in the UK.”
European HQ 
Over 1,300 staff are 
based at our European
Headquarters and
Operations Centre 
in Hatfield, UK. The
Operations Centre’s
advanced configuration
service covers mobiles,
desktops, servers 
(both Wintel and UNIX
based) and networking
technology.
Service Operations
Centre 
Our Service Operations
Centre allows us to 
monitor remotely and,
where necessary, 
resolve our customers’
IT systems problems
before they affect 
end-users. 7 Computacenter plc
in our maintenance contract base during 
the year. Successes included Cazenove,
Royal Mail and the UK Atomic Energy
Authority. Our pricing of support services
incorporates the considerable body of
information on relative failure rates that
Computacenter has accumulated over
many years of supporting a wide range of
hardware, and this represents a significant
source of competitive advantage.
Partly due to our continuing focus on
improving internal processes and
accountability, we saw higher professional
services utilisation rates and a growth in
professional services billing throughout
2002. This led to a professional services
revenue growth of 13.0% over the
previous year. 
The increased adoption of the 
latest Microsoft technology by large
organisations led to a number of major
infrastructure standardisation projects. 
For example, we deployed a standard
Microsoft Windows XP desktop
environment for ChevronTexaco, as 
part of a major global upgrade of its 
IT infrastructure, and migrated 6,000
users and 500 servers at Nationwide
Building Society to Windows 2000. In 
the Government sector, we implemented
a Windows 2000 desktop project roll-
out for a new hospital with Swindon &
Marlborough NHS Trust, for whom we will
also provide hardware maintenance and
other support services over a potential
twelve-year term.
We were also awarded a three-year support
contract for Nationwide’s Sun enterprise
servers, delivered a new IT infrastructure
for the Greater London Authority (GLA)
and won a contract for the design, build
and implementation of a new Windows
2000 office deployment for Orange UK. 
The opening of our Solutions Centre in
early 2002 was an important development
for Computacenter, allowing our
customers to test their choice of
technology before purchase, or verify 
the performance and scalability of new
applications before deployment.
Market pressure was most evident in the
product supply side of our business. Whilst
product sales fared better throughout 2002
compared to the second half of 2001, 
we saw an overall year-on-year decline.
Performance differed considerably across
sectors. Throughout the year, sales to
government departments continued to
grow, whilst financial services revenues
continued to decline, particularly in
investment banking. As our financial
services business has a higher proportion
of enterprise products and more demanding
service levels, this change in mix had an
overall adverse effect on UK margins.
Increased capacity at our Hatfield
Operations Centre allowed us to expand
the range of services we offer and the
technologies we support. For example,
Computacenter won a major technology
refresh contract to support NCR’s delivery
of new point-of-sale devices to a large
high street retailer. The contract includes
survey, storage, build and installation
services, together with the preparation and
installation of over 1,500 back-end servers.
A significant development in our product
re-sale business over the longer term 
was the merger, in May, of Compaq and
HP , two of our major vendor partners.
Computacenter is the UK market leader 
in Compaq products and we were
pleased to see our share of their business
grow still further in 2002. In view of our
mutual reliance, we are working closely
with the new HP management on forging 
Mike Norris, Chief Executive, in conversation at 
our European Headquarters and Operations Centre.
Solutions Centre 
Our Solutions Centre
ensures that technology
solutions are established
to be robust, compatible
and appropriate to our
customers’ needs before
they are introduced 
into a live business
environment. 8 Computacenter plc
the way ahead for our partnership. 
One early consequence of the merger 
is that Computacenter’s historical
Compaq volume has now moved to 
HP’s payment terms, which substantially
reduces credit days in return for early
payment discounts.
Our recycling and re-marketing arm, 
RDC, continued to respond to our
customers’ growing need for the effective
management of end-of-life IT equipment.
In April, the company won the Queen’s
Award for Enterprise in Innovation for its
unique service model, which provides
organisations with a better return from
their unwanted equipment and maximises
the potential for recycling. RDC achieved
an overall 58% increase in service
revenues over the previous year. 
CCD, our trade distribution business
offering products and logistics services to
resellers, maintained revenues comparable
to the previous year, despite continuing
market pressure. The business again
retained leading market share with several
major vendors, and we were only the
second organisation in the UK to be
appointed as an authorised HP-UX
distributor by HP .
In 2002 Computacenter opened new UK
offices in Newcastle and Belfast, with the
aim of widening our national coverage and
providing improved support to local offices
of our larger managed services customers.
International
In November, we announced our intention
to acquire GE CompuNet in Germany 
and GE Capital IT Solutions Austria.
These transactions were subsequently
completed on 2 January 2003, and both
companies are now wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Computacenter.
GE CompuNet (now CC CompuNet) 
has a strong services element in its
portfolio, which supports our strategy 
of growing our services base and building
contracted revenue streams. Whilst both
acquisitions are fundamentally sound
businesses, we are confident that 
they will benefit considerably from the
application of Computacenter’s experience.
These transactions give Computacenter
leading positions in Europe’s three largest
markets and a stronger pan-European
positioning with key vendors. The
combined businesses are able to share
certain investments and best practices,
and to develop common processes to
improve the scope, quality and cost-
effectiveness of their offerings.
We believe the acquisitions will be marginally
earnings enhancing in 2003 and will create
shareholder value in the long-term.
France
Assisted by acquisition, our French
operation saw 20.7% sales growth during
2002. However profit performance was
disappointing, reflecting difficult market
conditions and the costs of integrating 
the GECITS business following its
acquisition in February 2002.
Service revenues grew 80.6% compared
with the previous year and we won some
significant new customers, including
Ministère des Finances, Valéo and l’Oréal.
The acquisition of the GECITS business
involved the transfer of some 350
employees and brought with it several
major new accounts including Eurotunnel
and Renault France Automobiles. 
As the business was loss-making on
acquisition, the Group received a payment
from the vendor to assist in the financing
and development of the operation. 
The costs of restructuring  amounted 
“Our European acquisitions give Computacenter
leading positions in Europe’s three largest 
markets and stronger pan-European positioning
with key vendors.”
International 
Support Centre 
The ISC in Liverpool
provides a range of
managed services, such
as help desk support, to
international customers.
All technical analysts 
are required to speak 
a minimum of two
languages and coverage 
is 24x7.
Chief Executive’s review
Continued 9 Computacenter plc
to £3.2 million during the year, offset by a
release of £3.7 million negative goodwill to
operating profit.
Belgium and Luxembourg 
Our results in Belgium and Luxembourg
improved modestly in 2002 despite a
decline in corporate spending adversely
affecting our business, with product sales
particularly affected in the first half. The
second half showed an improvement,
due to some major customer wins. These
included Bridgestone Europe and Amcor,
who selected Computacenter for a pan-
European e-procurement service with
centralised reporting. 
We also won some major technology
refresh projects, including Citibank
Belgium, significant contract extensions
for project and support services at Nestlé
and UCB, and new CRM application roll-
out projects with Carlsberg Importers 
and Schneider Electric subsidiaries.
Biomni
After performing ahead of budget in the
first half of the year, our e-commerce 
joint venture, Biomni, saw a decline in
spending on e-procurement applications
in the second half.
Although Biomni has performed creditably
against its competition, the market for 
e-procurement services has not grown 
in line with expectations. Consequently,
Biomni has concentrated upon extending
its offering into the managed services
provider (MSP) marketplace, where 
the company has identified significant
business opportunities. Computacenter
will assume greater control over some 
of the e-commerce activities that have
historically been managed on its behalf by
Biomni, including CC Connect, through
which customers can order products 
and services from Computacenter over
the internet. Biomni continues to be a
strategic supplier to Computacenter, and
our 50% investment stake is unchanged.
Computacenter’s share of Biomni’s
loss reduced to £1.3 million 
(2001: £2.2 million). 
Organisation
Throughout 2002 we maintained our
focus on programmes designed to 
reduce our cost base and to leverage our
resources more effectively. As a result,
over the second half of the year, we
achieved a 11.5% reduction in sales,
general and administration (SG&A) costs
to the UK business compared with the
second half of 2001. Successful initiatives
included the merger of our Retail Finance
and City sectors into a single Financial
Services operation, reflecting the smaller
proportion of our revenues arising 
from investment banking and insurance.
We continued to operate tight cash
management disciplines and were
successful in our efforts to maintain high
levels of professional services utilisation.
We believe corporate and government
organisations will continue to look to
Computacenter to reduce their IT
infrastructure costs and are confident
that this, together with our focus on 
tightly controlled and effective operations,
provides a sound platform for the future.
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
“Throughout 2002 we maintained our focus on
programmes designed to reduce our cost base
and to leverage our resources more effectively.”
CC CompuNet
The acquisition of GE
CompuNet (now CC
CompuNet) in January
2003 gives Computacenter
a market leading 
position in Germany and
stronger pan-European
positioning with key
vendors. The company’s
Kerpen operations centre 
is pictured.
