 06. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
Chairman’s statement
‘ Computacenter made steady progress 
during 2006. in each of the group’s 
three principal markets, management 
continued to make determined efforts 
to improve both strategic focus and 
operating performance.’
r on san DLer Ch AIRmAN
Computacenter made steady progress during 2006. In each of the 
Group’s three principal markets, management continued to make 
determined efforts to improve both strategic focus and operating 
performance. 
The steep fall in revenue in recent years was arrested in 2006. 
Despite continuing product price erosion, revenues of £2.27 billion 
were only marginally lower than the previous year (2005: £2.29 
billion), reflecting improvements in the competitiveness of our 
offerings and the increased focus on mid-market sales 
opportunities. Operating profit, before exceptional charges, 
increased by 14.5% to £33.6 million (2005: £29.3 million) and this 
figure includes approximately £6.2 million of losses arising in 
Germany associated with the start-up of two shared datacentre 
contracts. Taking into account non-operating exceptional charges  
of £5.0 million in France, operating profit increased by 3.2% to  
£28.5 million (2005: £27 .7 million). A reduction in net interest  
receipts following the return to shareholders of £74.4 million in July 
resulted in a 3.2% fall in profit before tax to £32.9 million (2005: 
£34.0 million). The share consolidation that accompanied the return 
of capital had a beneficial impact on the Group’s diluted earnings  
per share, which rose by 16.9% to 13.8 pence (2005: 11.8 pence)  
on a pre-exceptional basis, and by 1% to 11.0 pence (2005: 10.9 
pence) after taking exceptional items into account.
Notwithstanding the £74.4 million return of capital, the balance  
sheet remained strong, with year-end net cash of £29.4 million 
(2005: £101.0 million), prior to customer-based loans and finance 
leases. Inclusive of these, the net funds of the Group finished the 
year at £10.8 million (2005: £100.4 million).
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 5.0p per 
share, bringing the total dividend for 2006 to 7 .5p (2005: 7 .5p).  
This is consistent with our stated policy of maintaining the level  
of dividend until earnings have risen sufficiently to bring the  
cover to within the target range of 2 – 2.5x. The final dividend  
will be paid on 31 may 2007 to shareholders on the register  
as at 4 may 2007 .
Operating profit in the UK increased by 16.8% to £37 .5 million (2005: 
£32.1 million), principally as a result of improved gross margins on 
product sales. Our UK Product Division has been re-engineered in 
recent years to serve our customers more cost effectively, involving 
considerable investment in new e-commerce systems and a 
reorganisation of resources. These improvements are beginning 
to show benefit, both in terms of margin and in our market share. 
We also continue to target the mid-market segment through our 
telesales operation, Computacenter Direct, where revenues in 2006 
grew in excess of 40%.
Technology Solutions, the consulting and systems integration unit 
within our UK Services Division, performed strongly and continued 
to enhance its reputation for technical excellence, particularly in 
datacentre-related activities. Professional services revenues grew by 
10.6% in 2006. elsewhere within the Services Division, performance 
was mixed. margins in our contractual services business units, 
Support Services and managed Services, remained attractive, partly 
as a result of further centralisation of resources within a shared 
services delivery model; however, in a disappointing year for 
contract renewals, revenues for contractual services increased 
by just 1.0% from the previous year.
In January 2007 , we concluded the acquisition of Digica l imited for a 
consideration of £28 million, including the settlement of approximately 
£12 million of debt. Digica is a leading provider of infrastructure 
management and application services for medium sized public and  Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
www.computacenter.com
07. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
private sector organisations, with particular expertise in datacentre 
managed services. Its operations are highly complementary to those 
of Computacenter, and the combination will give both businesses the 
opportunity to deliver a far broader offering to their respective client 
bases. This acquisition fits neatly with Computacenter’s strategy of 
developing its contractual services business. 
Computacenter Germany produced revenue growth of 5.9%, 
stimulated in the latter months of 2006 by the impending change 
to German vAT, which became effective in early 2007 . Profit 
performance in Germany was less encouraging, with operating profit 
falling to £2.8 million (2005: £5.0 million), although this decline can be 
attributed to higher than anticipated start-up losses of £6.2 million 
associated with two shared datacentre services contracts. 
Nevertheless, this should not be allowed to obscure the encouraging 
underlying improvement in the German business. Services 
revenues, which account for over a third of the German total, grew 
strongly, particularly in managed Services (both desktop and 
datacentre) and in telephony projects, including voice Over IP .
The performance of Computacenter France remained 
unsatisfactory, although pre-exceptional operating losses for the 
year reduced from £7 .6 million to £6.5 million. The restructuring 
during the first half of 2005 contributed to this improvement, 
although its benefits were mitigated by intense price competition 
in the French market and further product margin erosion as a 
consequence. Additional restructuring of the French cost base took 
place towards the end of 2006, resulting in an exceptional charge of 
£2.4 million, and we expect the business to show further progress in 
2007 towards an eventual return to profitability. The financial 
statements also show a non-cash exceptional charge of £2.6 million 
representing an impairment of the French non-current asset base. 
In October, I was pleased to announce that John Ormerod had 
joined the Board as a Non-executive Director and also assumed  
the chairmanship of the Audit Committee. John brings a wealth  
of experience to both roles and I very much look forward to  
his involvement with the Group in the years ahead.
As we have stated before, it is difficult to draw any meaningful 
insights from current trading until we have completed the first 
quarter. Notwithstanding this, a considerable amount of work has 
taken place in recent years to improve the strategic positioning of 
Computacenter, through developing significantly the services 
capabilities and restructuring the cost base of our product 
businesses. Alongside these initiatives have been a series of 
operational enhancements, aimed at improving efficiencies in  
our core processes and at upgrading our sales capabilities.  
The combination of these activities positions the Group well  
for the future.
As always, the credit for the Group’s performance belongs to the 
staff, to whom I offer my wholehearted thanks for their dedication 
and hard work.
r on sandler
Chairman
Our  strategy
To ensure long-term earnings growth, Computacenter 
is focused on:
•  Improving our competitiveness by reducing the cost 
of sale in our product supply business.
•  extending our presence in growth markets, and in 
particular the medium-sized business segment.
•  Broadening the range and depth of our 
service activities.
•  Improving the efficiency of our operations by 
deploying shared services facilities across our 
customer base.
•  Accelerating the growth of our contractual 
services business.
