 08. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
‘ uK o perating profit grew 16.8% to 
£37.5 million (2005: £32.1 million). 
t he improvement came mainly from 
better product margins, but also 
reflected our success in penetrating 
new markets and delivering 
operational efficiencies.’
miKe norris Ch IeF exe CUTIve OFFICeR
Chief executive’s review
u K
UK revenues declined by 5.2% to £1.28 billion (2005: £1.35 billion). 
modest services growth partially mitigated a product sales decline 
of 7 .2%, which was principally due to our withdrawal from selected 
low margin volume sales in trade distribution. 
Operating profit grew 16.8% to £37 .5 million (2005: £32.1 million). 
The improvement came mainly from better product margins, but 
also reflected our success in penetrating new markets and delivering 
operational efficiencies.
services Division
Overall services revenues grew 3.1%, with strong Technology 
Solutions growth compensating for a disappointing 1.0% increase 
in contractual revenues. 
We continued to focus on reducing operational costs and improving 
customer service. In particular, we sought to make more effective 
use of shared resources and tools for service delivery. The 
increased use of the Technical Resource Group, a flexible, shared 
engineering resource, across our client base, helped reduce 
our operational overheads significantly and made our offerings 
more competitive.
Throughout 2006, we saw a growth in contractual opportunities 
arising from an increase in the number of organisations seeking  
to split their service contracts across a range of specialist partners. 
These were typically for contracts of three to five-year terms, rather 
than the ten-year service engagements traditionally placed with 
large systems integrators.
The Services Division comprises three business units: managed 
Services, Support Services and Technology Solutions.
Managed s ervices
Despite a disappointing year for contract renewals, our managed 
Services business unit grew revenues by 6.6% and improved its 
profit contribution.
The UK outsourcing market continues to grow at 4 – 5% annually. 
Promising market developments for Computacenter’s business 
include increased interest from medium-sized organisations for 
desktop and datacentre managed services. 
Our growth plans include the continued expansion and 
enhancement of our service desk and datacentre capabilities. 
This strategic focus led to the acquisition in early 2007 of Digica, 
a provider of infrastructure management and application services 
with a particular focus on medium-sized public and private 
sector organisations.
managed Services successes in 2006 include a five-year £28 million 
distributed IT and datacentre outsourcing contract with eversheds, 
a five-year £6 million contract with IT firm Parity to manage its entire 
IT infrastructure including its datacentre, and an extension in 
scope and terms of our contract with the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority.
support s ervices
A highly cost-conscious market led to an overall decline in our 
Support Services revenues. Performance from this business unit 
was strongest in the datacentre environment, where pressure on 
unit price was less intense.  Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
www.computacenter.com
09. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
Our service desk capabilities were extended 
through our new multi-lingual shared service desk 
in Barcelona and the facility in Cape Town, RSA 
that comes as part of the Digica acquisition.
servi Ce Des Ks exten De D
market demand was driven by clients seeking to centralise and 
consolidate their IT infrastructures to improve service and reduce 
both risk and costs. Growth also came from an increase in the 
subcontracting of support by large outsourcing organisations and 
systems integrators, a market upon which we placed particular 
focus in 2006. Such a partnership approach helped us secure a 
BT-subcontracted three-year hardware maintenance and support 
contract with l iverpool Direct.
Support Services continues to be strong in the traditionally attractive 
financial services market. In addition, our more recent efforts to 
improve our coverage of the mid-market, where there is greater 
growth potential, helped us win business with approximately 30 
organisations that had not previously traded with Computacenter. 
We also saw growth in areas such as the retail sector, where we 
won a three-year contract with John l ewis Partnership for the 
support of all their desktops, laptops, printers and networks across 
the UK.
Other significant wins in the period include a three-year contract for 
the support of Taylor Woodrow’s entire server estate. 
t echnology s olutions
Our Technology Solutions business grew strongly, with much of  
the growth coming from an increase in datacentre projects. With  
a majority of Technology Solutions projects in 2006 including a 
datacentre component, we sought to develop new offerings to 
answer client demand in this area. As a result, we are now able to 
offer an end-to-end datacentre solution for reducing operating costs, 
speeding up business applications deployment and improving 
environmental efficiency.
In addition, we benefited from closer integration with our product 
supply business, as an increasing number of clients chose to couple 
product supply with the purchase of project services. 
A 15% increase in revenues from consulting and project 
management led to very high professional services activity, and 
helped the overall profitability of the Technology Solutions business. 
We now have a substantial pipeline for professional services projects 
in the UK and we anticipate further growth in this area.
We continued to refine our propositions to answer changing client 
requirements. For example, our shared risk approach to Technology 
Solutions projects, which answers a growing demand for assured 
outcomes rather than hired expertise, proved of interest to 
organisations seeking to reduce the risk and fix the cost of projects.
Significant new business in the period included a five-year contract 
with Doncaster College of Further education, worth £6 million, for its 
new 35,000 sq. m. campus. 
product Division
Our ongoing programme of re-engineering our product business to 
deliver improved profitability and growth began to bear fruit in 2006. 
Following a decline in product revenues in 2005, we saw a 
stabilisation in revenues from end-user sales in 2006. 
A 1.7% increase in product gross margins reflects our success 
in implementing improved business controls relating to product 
purchasing and supply. We also continued to lower the cost of sale 
through use of a lighter-touch sales model for product-only clients, 
enabled through our deployment of improved e-commerce systems. 300
250
200
150
100
50
0
06 05 04 03
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
£ million
group servi Ces Contra Ct base 2003–06
10. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
Chief executive’s review
Our services contract base across the Group 
continued to grow year on year.
Continuing Contra Ct base gro Wt H
We benefited from our evolving product mix, with a still greater 
proportion of sales coming from network, server and other 
enterprise technologies. This was partly driven by the increased 
criticality of enterprise systems and partly by the growth of our 
Technology Solutions business, where such technology is often 
part of a bundled solution.
The Product Division comprises four business units: Corporate 
h ardware, Software, Computacenter Direct and CCD.
c orporate  Hardware
Technology sales to end-users increased slightly, although following 
a major investment in the latest version of our webshop, Connect 6, 
we experienced 28% growth in online revenues. Web sales now 
comprise over 16% of all hardware orders.
Product margins benefited from an increase in business with 
the financial sector, as well as the growing enterprise technology 
proportion in the product mix. We saw particularly strong growth 
in our Sun, emC, Cisco and IBm enterprise business. 
With price competition still intense in the product market, the 
Corporate h ardware business sought to enhance the range of 
supply-related value propositions it provides to customers. In 
particular, we focused on developing and communicating our 
offerings in the areas of managed multi-vendor procurement 
contracts, extensive multi-site deployments and environmental 
advisory services. 
Significant new product business includes a £50 million contract 
with the ATl AS Consortium, covering managed supply and 
deployment services to support the Defence Information 
Infrastructure (Future) programme within the UK ministry of Defence.
software
Our Software business grew revenues 7% during 2006. Growth 
was across our vendor base, and partly a result of an expanding 
software services market. 
The increased threat of vendor audits, rising merger activity and the 
business disruption of off-shoring, all drove clients to look for greater 
security, efficiency and agility in software purchasing. many of these 
organisations sought help to ensure compliance, consolidate multi-
vendor agreements and renegotiate licence terms. 
To capture better these opportunities, we increased our investment 
in dedicated sales and marketing resources. Whilst this has had 
some short-term impact on this unit’s profit contribution, it is 
envisaged that future software business growth will be achieved 
without the requirement to add further to the cost base.
Significant successes in 2006 include a renewal of microsoft 
licences with BAA in a three-year Direct enterprise Agreement.
c omputacenter  Direct
This business unit, targeting the growing medium-sized business 
market, continued to grow strongly, with improved product margins 
and revenue growth in excess of 40%.
Recruitment of additional sales staff helped drive a 23% increase in 
product volumes, predominantly related to server technology. This, 
together with our increasing success in attaching deployment and 
integration services to technology supply, contributed to an 
increased profit contribution from this unit.
Computacenter Direct continues to attract new clients, and now 
has over 1,500 trading customers. We are confident of continuing 
growth in the mid-market sector.
Our UK Software business, where we increased  
our investment in dedicated sales and marketing 
resources, grew revenues 7% during 2006. 
u K soft Ware revenues up 7% Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
www.computacenter.com
11. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
cc D
Following a management reorganisation in 2006, CCD, our trade 
distribution arm, sought to reduce its exposure in a small number 
of unprofitable, high volume accounts. As a result, we saw rising 
margins and profitability in the second half of the year.
Profit performance also benefited from a merger of the two 
operating units comprising CCD, reducing our operating costs and 
streamlining the sales operation. Increased sales focus led to a 
number of notable successes during the year, in particular the 
growth of our IBm System x server revenues, which significantly 
increased CCD’s market share in these systems, and the successful 
introduction of a focused server-based computing initiative in 
partnership with h P .
The management team was further strengthened in the last quarter 
and a comprehensive sales development plan has been initiated to 
underpin the business during 2007 and beyond. Although market 
conditions are expected to remain fiercely competitive, management 
believe that we are well placed to build on the improvements seen
in 2006.
r Dc
After breaking even in the previous year, RDC, our technology 
recycling and remarketing operation, returned to profit in 2006. 
Our margin on remarketing services increased by 15.1% and we 
continued to be profitable in Germany.
Our success in 2006 was in part due to a renewed sales focus in 
the first half of the year, with the launch of Computacenter Asset 
Recovery Services and the creation of a new frontline sales team 
instrumental in a number of service wins.
Throughout 2006 we saw significant successes in both our direct 
business, and business won with Computacenter accounts. We 
now see a healthy sales pipeline, which we anticipate should provide 
a secure platform for profit and revenue growth in 2007 .
g ermany
Computacenter Germany recorded revenue growth of 5.9% to 
£654.7 million, although full-year operating profits declined 44.2% 
to £2.8 million (2005: £5.0 million).
The fall in profitability was largely due to the implementation of two 
shared datacentre contracts, and the creation of the underlying 
infrastructure, which collectively produced a loss of approximately 
£6.2 million. Whilst elements of this were planned costs of start-up, 
these losses were on an unacceptable scale and considerable 
efforts were made in the second half of the year to rectify the failings. 
We are confident that this has now been achieved. 
This has obscured to some extent a marked underlying performance 
improvement in the German business. Trading was particularly 
strong at the year-end. Although this may signify a developing 
recovery in the German market, some of this growth appears to 
have arisen from additional spending by clients ahead of the vAT 
increase in Germany in early 2007 .
Sales growth also came from an increase in managed Services 
business, as clients turned to outsourcing to help reduce IT 
operational costs. Overall, we continued to attract new business, 
with some significant wins and renewals leading to 22% contract 
base growth.
As elsewhere, an increased proportion of our product business 
came from sales of enterprise technology. We saw particular growth 
in networking offerings, reflecting the further commoditisation of
the PC and laptop business and our increased focus on business-
led solutions. 
In Germany, we continued to attract new business, 
leading to 22% contract base growth.
servi Ces gro Wt H in germany 12. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
Chief executive’s review
In our Technology Solutions business, we continue to see the fruits 
of the investment made five years ago in the development of voice 
Over IP telephony and voice on Demand. Revenues from this 
competitive but highly profitable market segment were twice
their 2005 value and we expect them to continue to grow 
attractively in 2007 .
To support a growing requirement for the provision of a more 
international service to large global customers such as Adidas, we 
took full responsibility in October for our Service Desk facility and its 
120 employees in erfurt. This was previously managed via a joint 
venture with Sellbytel. Through stronger integration with our other 
facilities in milton Keynes (UK) and Barcelona, this will help us build 
a more integrated international service centre network.
Significant wins include a five-year outsourcing contract with Union 
Investment IT for DZ Bank Gruppe, worth up to £60 million in 
product and service sales. We will provide an end-to-end service  
to include support of approximately 10,000 workstations and the 
outsourcing of the client’s datacentre, with all service managed on 
our systems.
Other successes include a three-year europe-wide contract 
with Airbus, worth 30 million euros, and major extensions of our 
contracts with Daimler Chrysler, for network support of its mercedes 
Technology Centre, and with Bosch, to include the support of 
38,000 workstations over a three-year term.
f rance
Performance in France remains unsatisfactory, although pre-
exceptional operating losses reduced 15.0% to £6.5 million (2005: 
£7 .6 million) as revenues grew 3.9% to £307 .3 million (2005: £295.8 
million). Taking into account the effect of exceptional charges, which 
related to additional restructuring of the French business, operating 
loss increased from £9.3 million in 2005 to £11.5 million.
Despite further product margin erosion over 2006, we saw a 
slowdown of the trend over the first nine months and a slight 
improvement in margins in the last quarter. encouragingly, services 
margins improved over the year and we completed the final stages 
of business take-on of our largest multinational services contract. 
We benefited from our ongoing focus on reducing the cost base in 
France in both people and non-people expenses and we intend to 
continue with these measures in 2007 . We also saw some promising 
product and services sales growth, particularly in the second half of 
the year. 
The growth of our profitable maintenance business was another key 
focus, with the launch of a comprehensive sales training programme 
designed to improve the identification, qualification and capture of 
these opportunities. We are already starting to see the benefits of 
this programme, with a significant increase in maintenance business 
over the period and into 2007 . A similar sales training programme for 
enterprise products, which are less subject to price pressures than 
desktop systems, led to an expansion of our team of IBm technical 
consultants and helped grow our IBm revenues by 13%.
To support the provision of a more international 
service to large global customers such as Adidas, 
we took full responsibility in October for our 
previously partnered Service Desk facility and 
its 120 employees in erfurt.
er f urt servi Ce Des K in -sour CeD Job:	 7603_CC_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Dave	 Date:	 15/03/07	
Server:	 3	 Set-up:	 Bradley	 First	 Read/Revisions
www.computacenter.com
13. Computacenter plc  Annual report & accounts 2006
Significant wins include a three-year managed services contract 
with Texas Instruments France, worth approximately £2 million. 
The contract scope includes help desk provision, installations, 
maintenance, disposal and support for more than 3,500 devices. 
We also secured a five-year enterprise and professional services 
contract with the Centre National d’etudes Spatiales (CNeS) worth 
£13 million.
benelux
Our Benelux operation recorded an operating loss of £191,000 
(2005: £109,000). The Belgium and Netherlands business achieved 
a break-even result, in spite of costs arising from the development 
of new communication and storage business units to address rising 
demand in those markets. Our sub-scale l uxembourg operation 
recorded an overall loss. 
Product supply performed strongly, with an increased profit 
contribution, as did managed Services, mainly from the growing 
financial sector.
Key wins included a renewal on product supply with Pioneer, a 
technology refresh project at SWIFT, a desktop managed services 
contract with Burgo Ardennes, and a CRm project for the european 
salesforce of Ansell.
international
We saw increasing client interest in our international capabilities  
in 2006, with a number of contract wins and extensions having a 
multi-country component. Typically these were with multinational 
organisations headquartered in europe, such as Cognis, which 
outsourced its global IT infrastructure to Computacenter, including 
management of its datacentre and service desk.
Our service facilities have been extended through the building of 
a multi-lingual shared service desk in Barcelona and through the 
service desk capability in Cape Town, RSA that comes as part of  
the Digica acquisition. This enables Computacenter to determine  
the most suitable location, in terms of both quality of service and 
cost, when configuring service contracts for customers.
mike n orris
Chief executive Officer
We are starting to see the benefits of a new sales 
training programme in France, with a significant 
increase in our profitable maintenance business.
fren CH maintenan Ce gro Wt H
Significant new Group business won in 2006 
included John l ewis Partnership, the UK Defence 
ministry, Bosch and Texas Instruments.
Key Customer Wins
