 Chief Executive’s strategy review 
Building a strong platform
Mike Norris, Chief Executive
For the Executive Management at 
Computacenter, 2013 has been about 
three main priorities. All of them relate to 
our aim of building a strong platform for 
our business.
It is a strong platform that will allow us 
to deliver consistently for our customers 
and ensure that we remain in a position to 
respond to the current and future needs 
of their businesses.
Firstly, we have taken action to ensure that 
we have in place appropriate governance 
processes and procedures, so that the 
Services we provide to our customers 
adhere to our Group standards of quality 
and reliability no matter where from, or by 
whom within the Group, those Services 
are delivered. With this in mind, you will see 
reference within the following pages to the 
implementation of our Group Operating 
Model. We believe that this is fundamental 
to the development of our business and 
the achievement of our strategic objectives 
as we look to pursue medium term 
Services growth. The background to, and 
operation of, this model is explained in  
more detail on pages 10 and 11 of this 
strategy review by our Chief Operating 
Officer, Chris Webb.
I am pleased to inform you that the impact 
of the model on our German business, 
since its implementation in January 2013, 
has been very positive. We look forward 
to its full implementation within our French 
business over the coming few months. 
We have additionally carried out an 
extensive strategy review process, and our 
current shareholders that received our 2012 
Annual Report and Accounts will notice that 
the Group’s strategic objectives have been 
modified as a result. As is explained on 
page 19, we will continue to invest in our 
technical capability and scale to allow us 
to achieve these updated objectives.
Finally, although 2013 has been a year  
of good underlying business performance 
by the Group, it has also required some 
tough decisions to be made by the 
Group that have impacted our short-term 
profitability. However, we are confident 
that these decisions will allow us to 
provide additional value for our 
shareholders over the medium term.
We hope to receive your support at the 
Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting.
04 Computacenter plc 
Enabling IT Users 
Annual Report and  
Accounts 2013 The following pages describe the elements that are 
helping us to build a strong platform for our business. 
Our strategy – page 06
Delivering for and retaining our customers will allow 
us to grow our Services business and maximise the  
return for our shareholders over the long term.
Our sustainable business model – page 08
Puts the needs and satisfaction of our customers  
at the heart of our business.
Our Group Operating Model – page 10 
Enhancing and driving efficiencies within our 
operational capability through investment in our 
people and industrialisation of our processes will  
allow us to compete in our markets through both 
quality and cost of our Services.
Our risk management approach – page 12
Robust risk mitigation underpins everything we do.
Our key performance indicators – page 16
Measurable performance is key to future growth  
and achieving our aims.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Computacenter plc 
Enabling IT Users 
Annual Report and  
Accounts 2013
05
