 4
Chairman’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder,
2013/14 was a pivotal year for Coms plc. In early January 2013 with the investment by, 
and appointment of, Dave Breith as CEO the Company secured the leadership and 
vision it so desperately needed. The turnaround in the Company’s prospects since 
his appointment has been remarkable. Early on Dave developed, implemented and 
communicated his ‘blueprint’ for the Company and through structural re-organisation, 
an aggressive M&A strategy coupled with numerous initiatives designed to promote 
significant organic growth, he has created the foundations upon which he and his 
professional management team can build a truly outstanding company.
During the year the Company has made good progress in developing a sound 
technology platform and through its acquisition of third party companies including 
Redstone and more recently Cloud XL it has ensured an ever increasing revenue base 
which will provide the funding required to build a sustainable long term business. 
As a consequence in 2014 and beyond, whilst we will continue to manage the business 
on a financially prudent basis your Board and management we will continue to strive 
to achieve our goal of building substantial shareholder value in the medium and long 
term. We will continue to assess both organic growth as well as M&A opportunities.
Corporate Governance
The Directors remain committed to maintaining the highest standards of 
transparency, ethics and corporate governance, whilst also providing leadership, 
controls and strategic oversight to ensure we deliver sustainable value to all the 
Company’s shareholders. 
Each non-executive Director brings independence of character and judgement to the 
role. Board and Committee meetings are characterised by robust, constructive debate 
based upon reporting from management and the Board keeps its performance and 
core governance principles under regular review. The Company’s non-executive 
Directors have extensive experience and impressive track records in corporate 
development and we are very lucky to have been able to attract them to join the 
Company and the Board will continue to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience amongst its members.
With the first phase of our transformation completed, I want to thank the Board, the 
management and the staff for their tireless efforts during a challenging but rewarding 
12 months. As Chairman it has been a pleasure to work with Dave Breith and his team 
and I look forward to working with them on the next phase of the transformation as 
we build our revenue base and realise the value from our technology platform, which 
is of the highest quality.
Finally I would like to thank the shareholders for their support and I look forward to 
working more closely with you over the coming 12 months.
Iain G Ross
