 5
Chief Executive’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
Chief Executive’s statement
I am pleased and honoured to report on the company’s performance for my first full 
year as Chief Executive. Throughout the period my actions have been governed by 
several established mantras. 
Ensure financial viability….
The 2013/14 audited accounts are extremely positive in that during the year we 
generated revenues in excess of £14m (2013: £1.6m) which coupled with a significantly 
re-aligned cost base resulted in the Company starting the 2014/15 financial year with 
£0.98m of cash available to it (2013/14: £0.2m). The EBITDA for the year on continuing 
operations was £1.50m (2013: loss of £0.8m) and the profit before tax on continuing 
operations was £1.24m (2013: £0.9m). These numbers speak for themselves when 
compared to the previous year’s performance.
This business is now financial viable, substantive and sustainable.
Get the right people to focus on the hard decisions early on….
Following my appointment in early 2013 and supported by some truly robust 
managers we embarked upon a turnaround of the business, which has had an 
incredible impact. We were presented with some significant and serious challenges as 
early in my tenure it became apparent that the business was in need of “life support” 
and I cannot over emphasise the task that has been achieved to date. Whilst we had 
the intention and ambition to grow the business from day 1, in the early days we were 
hindered by a plethora of unresolved matters, which were a legacy from the past. 
As a result dealing with, and addressing issues from the past, has taken up more time 
this year than I had hoped. Having said this with careful planning and an eye on our 
strategic goals the Coms team has done an incredible job to get us to where we are 
now. As our business matures so will our people who have an unquenchable thirst for 
success and a ‘can do’ attitude which I intend to continue to harness.
I have my team in place.
Plan, implement, acquire and integrate… 
Some of the key highlights and challenges addressed in the year are outlined below: 
Whilst we have looked to develop and organically grow our core business I made it 
clear from the date of my appointment that I wanted to implement a comprehensive 
M&A strategy. As a consequence we have made 10 acquisitions of varying size during 
the year all of which have allowed us to significantly expand our technology offering 
and capabilities, broaden our business and customer base, and markedly increase our 
revenue generating capability.
However the key is not only identifying the right sort of business to acquire but also 
integrating the acquired business effectively and ensuring there is no duplication 
in the on-going cost base. Easier said than done I can assure you and although I 
am pleased to report that the Coms team has dealt well with all the integration 
challenges of the acquired businesses I would just like to highlight some of the 
challenges with which we have had to deal.
Cont. 6
Chief Executive’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
Systems – The Company was running various billing platforms and multiple servers 
for email, domain control, different versions of software and finance products. So for 
each business that we have acquired, we have and continue to ensure they are moved 
onto the Company’s billing and telecom ERP platform known as AskMerlin. Bespoke 
finance products are being rolled out throughout the Group companies and an 
internal secure wide area network across our locations has been installed and is being 
utilised. Video conferencing will also be adopted across our locations in due course. 
All the ‘acquired businesses’ now share the same infrastructure and where possible 
software, platforms etc. This has created a “one company, one ethos” attitude 
amongst our people and has assured our internal communication and processes are 
aligned throughout  
the organisation.
Personnel – The Company now has circa 400 staff and as a consequence it has 
undergone substantive restructuring with us adopting a centralised departmental 
approach whereby now all HR, Marketing, Media, Internal Networks and the majority 
of Operations fall under a single head of department. Bringing this many people 
together and working as “One Company” has been challenging but also good fun 
and rewarding by seeing the positive attitude within our people, pulling in the same 
direction and the enthusiasm they have to succeed.
Location, Location, Location. – As a result of our aggressive acquisition 
strategy we have acquired numerous offices and warehouses in a variety of locations 
throughout the country and we have actively sought to rationalise these quickly 
and efficiently. During the year we have closed our old headquarters in Cannon Street, 
London, three further offices in the West End of London and a small office in Oldham. 
There have been, further office closures in Loudwater, Elstree and Spalding plus 
warehouses closed in Basildon and Watford. In total we have closed 10 locations as 
part of our M&A integration programme. 
At the time of writing the Company has 4 main locations, - Head office (Stokenchurch, 
Buckinghamshire), Old Broad Street (London), Basildon and a Warehouse (Becton). In 
late 2013 we moved into our new state of the art 22,000 square foot Head office for 
which we have negotiated a lease, paying 3.5 years rent over a 5-year period. 
In July 2014 we will close our 5,500 square foot offices in Old Broad Street, London, 
which we have outgrown and we will open a new 12,500 square foot office in High 
Holborn, which will be our “Coms London Showcase” and will incorporate a media 
studio in order that live broadcasts can be achieved. We anticipate renting the 
facility out to BBC and other large broadcasters. In addition in June 2014 we will close 
down our 5,000 square foot offices in Basildon in favour of a new 10,500 square foot 
office in Brentwood which will predominantly house direct sales, NOC and network 
personnel, project management, pre-sales and some aspects of the finance function. 
The Company has also opened a new 12,000 square foot warehouse in Becton.
Creating the right working environment and motivation for our 
people – All staff across the organisation have been, and are being aligned through 
the provision of pension schemes, death in service benefits and private health care 
as appropriate in contrast to the past where 80% of the staff had no benefits at all. 
These additional benefits are worth the investment not only because it demonstrates 
how the Company feels about its staff and recognises how valuable they are but also 
this benefit is easily measured in the enthusiasm and drive into which it translates.  
We adopted a staff incentive scheme early 2013, which has helped further motivate 
our team and I am pleased to report that this scheme will be rolled out over the next 
3 years where every member of staff will be given the option to participate. This will 
increase the motivation throughout the Group.
Cont. 7
Chief Executive’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
New Initiatives – We don’t intend to rest on our laurels and new initiatives are 
being introduced to drive our business and our people forward. A “Coms Academy” 
will be launched whereby every member of staff will undergo training for all products 
and services across the Group. The Company believes that this investment in its 
people will further drive more ambassadors in the business, which will have long term 
benefits for both the Company and the individuals.
Cash Management and Finance – Dealing with multiple businesses, 
different systems and cash management has needed close attention to detail. I am 
pleased to report that the hard work done implementing strict process from the day I 
started in the business has paid off as the business runs on a single reporting structure 
and is moving towards a single instance of Sage 1000. This will align all of the various 
elements of the business and drive all reports throughout our AskMerlin platform. 
Cash balances in the Group have remained positive throughout the year and tight 
controls on cash and credit-control continue to be adhered to. During the year the 
Company had to work with 6 separate banks and a move to a lead and sole Bank is 
underway; this is expected to be completed within the first half of the 2014/15 year.
We have integrated our businesses.
Focus on the Business…..
During the year the Company signed up numerous deals and contracts, raised 
new funding and made some significant acquisitions. As with any rapidly growing 
organisation there were some initiatives which surpassed our expectations and there 
were others that did work out as originally intended. A brief overview including the 
pluses and minuses is as follows:
In February 2013 the Company agreed through a related party transaction to acquire 
the database and customers of World Telecom. This database was acquired from a 
company that belongs to me and had a list of nearly 50,000 large corporate customers 
including Virgin Atlantic, Xerox, BOC Gases, Thermo Electron, Bank of New York, 
American Express, British American Tobacco and Rio Tinto and was already generating 
£50,000 per annum. The acquisition has proven to be a success and has provided Coms 
with an increased blue chip customer base into which it is selling its telephony services.
Concurrently through another related party transaction the Company licensed the 
software “AskMerlin” from AskMerlin Limited, which is owned by me, for an initial period 
of six months. Subsequently this licence was extended on an exclusive basis. The 
AskMerlin platform is a fully automated piece of telecoms software that has zero 
touch capability for all products and services that the Company is deploying. It has been 
utilised as an integration tool to support the Company’s ongoing acquisition strategy.
For both these transactions the independent directors, having consulted with the 
Company’s nominated adviser, considered that the terms of the transactions were fair 
and reasonable insofar as the Company’s shareholders are concerned.
In March 2013 the Company signed a 24 Month partner contract with Worldstone to 
commit to add an additional 400 hosted seats per month, for a minimum period of 
24 months, selling across the international reseller base of Worldstone. By the end of 
the term it was intended that the additional seats would effectively double the size of 
the existing Coms core business. Unfortunately this project has not been a success and 
whilst there has been an on-going dialogue in respect of the contract, I am very sad to 
report that during the period the MD of Worldstone became terminally ill and died. 
This has resulted in a restructuring of Worldstone (which is part of Jersey Telecom) 
and the contract has been terminated by mutual consent on compassionate grounds.
Cont. 8
Chief Executive’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
In April 2013 the Company announced that it had signed a contract to sell broadband 
and lines to an outsourcing company with turnover of over £2.0 billion. At the time 
for reasons of confidentiality, we were restricted from providing more detail on the 
contract or the client company. Subsequently in June we were able to provide an 
update to the market and to identify the client as MITIE Property Services Limited 
(“MITIE”). MITIE, whose clients include Local Authorities, Housing Associations 
and Registered Social Landlords has been working with Coms to deliver low cost, 
sustainable broadband services to tenants as part of a digital inclusion and energy 
monitoring initiative across the social housing ‘estate’. Coms is providing an end 
to end managed broadband solution on 24 month individual contracts, on behalf 
of MITIE to its respective clients. Since this contract was first announced, Coms 
has commenced the installation of lines, whilst establishing the initial processes 
and workflows of the project with MITIE and its respective third parties. Together 
we have been securing the resources to deliver a best in class service across the 
social housing sector. However the roll out of this project has been a lot slower 
than anticipated and aspects of the project had to be delayed due to general roll 
out process. As a result the Company saw very little revenue during the year from 
this project with only some £60k being billed. Having said this as a result of intense 
discussions we have been able to sort out all the teething problems and remain 
confident we will start to see a major impact in the 2014/15 and 2015/16 financial years.
In May 2013 the Company announced it had acquired the broadband customers and 
certain other assets of So Purple Tech Limited trading as “ADSL24” . This included 
almost 4,000 broadband customers as well as cloud based mail and hosting. This 
acquisition has proven a great success and has provided the Company with further 
upsell opportunities on the broader range of services that we offer. As well as 
acquiring the entire issued share capital of Premium-O Limited.
Also in May the Company announced that it had raised £1.5m before expenses, 
through the issue of 81,081,081 new ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each (“Ordinary 
Shares”) at a price of 1.85 pence. Under the terms of the deal, each new Ordinary 
Share had a warrant attached, entitling its holder to subscribe for additional 
Ordinary Shares at an agreed exercise price of 3.7 pence per share. Under specified 
circumstances, these warrants were able to be exercised at any time up to 24 months 
from the date of the agreement and subsequently a further £3m was raised in  
August 2013 and the warrants exercise totalled 157k. 
In addition in May 2013 the Company announced that it had successfully been 
added to the Government framework procurement “G-Cloud III” , being services 
accessible through the Cloudstore. Cloud computing and Cloud based services have 
brought stepped changes in the economics and procurement of such services. The 
Government Cloud strategy is aiming to achieve large, cross government economies 
of scale, to take advantage of new technologies in order to deliver faster business 
benefits and reduce cost; meet environmental and sustainability targets; and allows 
the government to procure in a way that encourages a dynamic and responsive 
supplier marketplace and supports emerging suppliers. Coms plc was successful in 
submitting 5 services: Hosted telephony; SIP trunking; Lync 2010 Enterprise Voice; 
Integrated Mobile and Hosted Openscape Unified Coms. Concurrently the Cabinet 
Office announced that Government departments buying IT products and services 
are now obliged to consider solutions offered by G-Cloud providers before they can 
consider alternatives.
Cont. 9
Chief Executive’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
In June 2013 the Company announced that via a related party transaction it had 
acquired two sets of telecoms and IT hardware used in providing data networks. The 
Company acquired one set of assets from me and a further set of assets from TFM 
Networks Limited. This equipment provides Coms with a proprietary platform that 
has enabled the Company to offer a wide range of voice and data services. Having 
its own hardware has reduced the Company’s costs, given additional flexibility and 
enhanced resilience. The independent directors, having consulted with the Company’s 
nominated adviser, considered that the terms of the transaction were fair and 
reasonable insofar as the Company’s shareholders are concerned.
In October 2013 the Company announced that it had raised some £4.8m before 
expenses through the placing of 167,586,000 new ordinary shares at 3 pence per share, 
with certain institutional and other investors. The placing was undertaken in response 
to institutional demand to support the Company’s stated strategy of building a full 
service telecommunications business via organic growth and acquisition. 
In November 2013 the Company announced that it had conditionally agreed to 
acquire from Redstone plc, its subsidiary, Comunica Holdings Limited and its wholly 
owned subsidiaries Comunica Group Limited and Redstone Converged Solutions 
Limited (together “Redstone”), a significant player in the UK Information Technology 
and Communications sector. Redstone is a leader in infrastructure, smart buildings 
and support services with a strong financial services client base. Founded in 1995, 
Redstone has a strong recognisable brand and has grown to an over £30 million annual 
revenue base with 300 staff. In the year ended 31 March 2013, Redstone reported 
revenue of £30.8 million and EBITDA of £2.5 million. Redstone has a list of blue chip 
clients and partners including Cisco, IBM and HP, and Coms has identified potential 
for growth in new markets and industries for the enlarged Coms Group. 
Although the true impact of the Redstone acquisition is yet to be realised in financial 
terms, this acquisition is earnings enhancing and provides Coms with the scale needed 
to further build the Coms group of companies. It provides a significant increase 
in income generation to fund the enlarged business and also establishes a sound 
infrastructure, which allows the Coms group to provide an integrated service for 
our customers from “telecoms connectivity through to telecoms solutions” . Whilst 
Redstone continues to operate as a subsidiary of Coms plc we have already gained 
significant commercial synergies and cost savings by bringing these two businesses 
together under the Coms umbrella. As a result in 2014/15 and beyond we will achieve 
a significant uplift in operating profit, access to European markets currently served 
by Redstone and a significant ‘value add’ to customers of both businesses. This 
acquisition fundamentally changed the dynamics of our business and positioned us 
for the next phase of growth.
In December 2013 the Company announced the formation of a new subsidiary,  
Coms Media Ltd, following the acquisition of the media, design and animation 
specialist companies, Clicks Media Studios Ltd and Darkside Animations Ltd. Through 
these acquisitions the Company established a unique in-house capability, which has 
further strengthened Coms’ abilities to produce new, exciting and dynamic content 
in its established markets of cloud based solutions, hosted telephony, broadband and 
mobile. Both Clicks Media Studios Ltd and Darkside Animations Ltd have established 
a successful track record in delivering cutting edge content for digital and non-digital 
environments to a wide client base which includes BBC, ITV, Virgin Media, Discovery 
Channel, National Geographic, Saatchi, Google, Warner Brothers, Channel 5, Universal 
Studios, Disney and Rolls Royce.
Cont. 10
Chief Executive’s statement
©2014 Coms PLC | www.coms.com
Through Coms Media these companies provide Coms and its customers with a 
unique in-house creative capability, including branding, video production, media 
services, radio and TV advertising expertise, digital applications, merchandise 
implementation and presentation production. In addition, they offer commercial 
benefits to clients and channel partners - prospective and current - by providing a full 
suite of communications products and services from managed services to hardware 
to creative output. As an example this might include provision of everything from 
broadband, VOIP telephony and mobile to websites, apps and customer engagement 
campaigns using cutting edge digital technology. Through these acquisitions, multiple 
‘touch points’ have been created to buy and engage with the Coms.
Focus on the Brand...
Whilst we have been very active in terms of acquisitions, organic growth will remain 
the key to our success going forward. As a result during the latter part of the year 
under review we implemented a “Back to Basics” look at how we market the business 
and help drive sales. This has resulted in the recently announced rebranding of the 
business including new websites, new marketing material etc. 
The Future and Outlook… 
I remain very excited and committed to building Coms plc. The recent appointment 
of Brendan Loughrey as Chief Operating Officer confirms our intent on ensuring that 
we consider every aspect of the business whether that be servicing clients, delivering 
new deals or ensuring through our branding campaign that we enhance our profile 
in the market place. The pipeline of sales opportunities is expanding and as the year 
progressed we saw our teams close more than our fair share of contracts.
With additional management support the Company is able to research a global model 
and opportunities. I intend to make Coms a global household brand over the coming 
years and accordingly we intend to employ the services of Gartner Inc to help us 
refine our value proposition and ‘go to market’ strategy over the coming months. I 
believe that this investment will be invaluable in the medium to long term and we will 
report on our progress in due course.
In conclusion 2013/14 has been a year of change with several acquisitions and we 
have successfully integrated these new businesses both operationally and financially 
ensuring where possible we immediately remove duplicated costs. However, 
inevitably as the organisation integrates and becomes more efficient, additional 
savings will be identified.
Having reviewed current trading, commercial prospects and the cost of on-going 
integration initiatives I am pleased to report that the Board remains confident that 
the current 2014/15 market estimates revenue and profit before tax remain valid. 
However it is anticipated there will be a carry over of one–off re-organisation costs, 
which may impact performance in the first half of 2014/15 but which will be fully 
recovered in the second half of 2014/15 ensuring we perform in line with current 
market expectations 
Whilst I see the year ahead as presenting many challenges, these are all borne out of 
our success to date and I know I have now got the team in place to ensure the business 
continues to grow, that I will continue to have sleepless nights BUT that I will jump 
out of bed every morning through pure excitement of going to work at Coms.
Finally I want to thank the Board, all my staff at Coms and the shareholders for  
their support. 
David Breith
CEO
