 leadership
06
Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
 Chairman’s 
Statement
>
“ 2007 has been a 
transformational year for 
Concateno. We have 
developed a unique offering in 
the European market for the 
testing of drugs-of-abuse and 
alcohol and are well placed to 
build on our leading position in 
this high growth and high 
margin sector.”
Keith T ozzi
Chairman 07
Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
> Philips Collaboration
    “ The main aim of our work with Cozart 
is to develop an effective tool which 
can be used by the police and 
workplace sectors to identify those 
that are under the influence of drugs 
with similar speed and ease-of-use 
as the breath-analyser for alcohol. 
Using state-of-the-art magnetic bio-
sensor technology, illustrated below, 
our revolutionary product will be able 
to test for up to eight drug classes 
within 90 seconds. The project is 
progressing well.”
Dr Ad Leenaars, General Manager, 
Venture Handheld Drugs-of-Abuse 
Testing, Philips Healthcare Incubator
I am delighted to report Concateno’s 
financial results for the year ended 
31 December 2007. It has been a very 
busy period in which we have delivered the 
acquisition of six companies to supplement 
the acquisition of Medscreen in 2006.  
The integration of these businesses is 
progressing well and the reception from 
customers has been positive.
It is clear that we have created a market 
leading and powerful position in the 
European drug and alcohol testing sector. 
The Group also has the benefit of enjoying 
strong revenue visibility with many key 
customer contracts for periods of between 
three and five years. The nature of the 
services we offer also means Concateno 
benefits from low customer churn. These 
dynamics, coupled with the above average 
margins and significant growth rates seen 
across our markets has inspired the team 
to deliver an excellent performance during 
the period.
Revenue in the year to 31 December 2007 
was £26.1m (2006: £1.4m) and earnings 
before share-based payments, non-
recurring items, interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA) was £6.2m 
compared with a loss of £0.5m in the nine 
months to 31 December 2006. Group 
profit before interest and tax was £2.0m 
(2006: loss of £0.7m).
Our objectives
Our aim in 2007 was to build a group  
that could offer a comprehensive range  
of drug testing solutions to clients. By 
consolidating a traditionally fragmented 
market we are able to offer a single point  
of contact to a wide variety of customers. 
Looking back at 2007, it is clear that we 
have more than met our objective in terms 
of the service offerings now available to  
our customers. 
We will look to further augment our 
position in the UK market primarily by 
leveraging off our comprehensive product 
and service offering. In our key international 
markets we will look to grow organically 
and through targeted infill acquisitions. Our 
main focus will be in the Scandinavian and 
mainland European markets, and in 
Australia and New Zealand where we 
already have a presence.
The Board believes that the Company is 
successfully delivering on its strategy.
Management changes
During the year there have been a number 
of additions to the Board. Neil Elton joined 
the Board as Group Finance Director in 
September. Neil was previously Finance 
and Executive Director at Mecom Group 
plc, the European newspaper consolidator, 
and before that Group Finance Manager at 
Huntsworth plc, the international PR and 
communications group.
We welcomed two new Non-Executive 
Directors to the Board in October. Vin 
Murria has over 20 years experience of 
working for venture capital, private equity 
and publicly listed companies focused on 
the software sector. Dr Chris Hand joined 
the Board from Cozart plc, which he 
founded in 1993. 
I would like to thank everyone in the Group 
for their efforts in the past year and for their 
dedication and enthusiasm. I am confident 
that the Group will continue its high rate of 
organic revenue growth and exemplary 
level of customer service in 2008.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company is to be held on 13 May 2008. 
The Notice convening the AGM 
accompanies this report.
Current trading and outlook
The outlook for the Group’s key markets 
remains positive. Elements of the public 
sector drug testing market remain 
challenging in parts but overall demand for 
our services in this sector remain robust. 
Workplace and legal sector growth rates 
are particularly strong. Overall trading 
performance in 2008 has started positively 
and in line with our expectations. With the 
management infrastructure in place and 
the integration phase well under way, we 
look to 2008 with confidence.
Keith Tozzi
Chairman
28 March 2008
