 Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 10
Chief Executive   >
Officer’s Review
Fiona Begley 
Chief Executive Officer
40
%
Sales generated from outside the UK
(2007: 30%)
£3.3
m
Annualised operational synergies achieved earlier than plan
> enabling 
growth
‘Having integrated the businesses in 
2008 our focus turns to international 
growth and leveraging the resources 
of our UK centres of excellence.’ 11
Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Restructuring and Margin Improvement
At the end of 2007, Concateno consisted of seven separate acquired 
entities, operating under their own brands and methodologies. During 
2008 we have integrated those businesses and rolled out a common 
Group wide approach to sales, sample collection, laboratory 
processing, training and quality assurance.
Integration
A review of the integration projects and synergies achieved was set 
out in the 2008 Interim Report and Accounts. A number of sites were 
rationalised during the year, including:
migration of the Warrington oral-fluid testing laboratory to •	
Abingdon (completed May);
closure of the CPL International site in Liverpool with the migration •	
of the workflow to Cardiff and Canary Wharf (completed June);
closure of the Paddington office with the migration of the workflow •	
to Canary Wharf (completed July);
closure of the Gothenburg office in Sweden with the migration of •	
the workflow to Canary Wharf (completed July); and
closure of the Wakefield office with migration of the workflow to •	
Canary Wharf (completed January 2009).
The result is that we now have three Centres of Excellence in the UK:
Abingdon – oral-fluid testing, Cozart POC (‘Point-of-Care’) device •	
manufacture and R&D.
Cardiff – hair testing. •	
Canary Wharf – urine testing. •	
as well as our laboratory product manufacturing site in Girona, Spain 
and sales offices in Stockholm, Barcelona and Rome.
The resulting annualised synergies are £3.3 million.
Sales and Marketing
At the beginning of 2008, we restructured the sales and marketing 
functions of the various businesses to address ‘vertical’ markets in 
order that the specific needs of customer groups would be better 
targeted, product and service offerings tailored to their requirements 
and best practice rolled out to other clients. This approach has been 
well received by customers.
Highlights in 2008 included:
The renewal of the Drug Intervention Programme (‘DIP’) with the •	
Home Office in July 2008, which included upgrading their installed 
base of Cozart POC devices to the higher margin Cozart
®
 DDS 
variant. Contracts with the Home Office now have an annual value 
of ~£3.4m.
Increased uptake of hair-testing in the medico-legal sector. •	
TrichoTech, the Group’s hair-testing specialist operation based in 
Cardiff, is the leader in this field. Hair testing benefits from being 
able to detect drug misuse in the previous months rather than just 
days and is therefore of particular value in family law. TrichoTech 
also offers an expert witness statement service.  Year-on-year 
revenue growth in this market sector was more than 40%.
Criminal 
Justice Workplace Maritime
Medico-
Legal Healthcare
Lab 
Products
Summary  
of product/
service 
provided.
Products 
and services 
to support 
drug-testing 
in prisons, 
police 
custody 
suites and  
at the 
roadside.
Provision of 
pre- and 
in-employment 
drug testing for 
regulated and 
safety-critical 
industries.
Provision of 
fully 
managed 
drug-testing 
services to 
merchant 
vessels.
Hair testing 
to support 
court cases 
around family 
law and child 
protection. 
Pre- and 
in-
employment 
hair testing.
Provision of 
drug-testing 
services  
to support 
non-
custodial 
court  
orders and 
prisoners  
on probation
Supply of 
reagents 
and 
analysers to 
distributors 
principally 
for use by 
hospital and 
clinical 
laboratories.
Example
customers
–  HM Prison 
Service, 
–  Home 
Office, 
–  State of 
Victoria 
Police
–  Laing 
O’Rourke
–  TFL
–  United 
Biscuits
Fleet 
management 
companies, 
e.g. V Ships, 
and direct to 
ship owners 
worldwide.
Individual  
law firms  
and social 
services 
covering both 
private and 
public cases.
Drug Actions 
Teams and 
Private 
Healthcare 
organisations.
–  Santé Lab 
(Algeria).
–  Labcenter 
(South 
America)
–  Chronolab 
Systems 
(Spain)
Tender win to provide the NHS with a full range of DoA products •	
and services from our expanded portfolio.
Roll-out of dried blood spot testing methodology for blood borne •	
viruses (‘BBV’) to healthcare clients, particularly in the drug 
treatment services where harm reduction is part of their remit. 
BBVs, including Hepatitis C and HIV, are prevalent amongst  
drug users.
New Workplace contract wins including Defence Forces Ireland, •	
First Group, Greater Manchester Police and Irish Rail. Additional 
contracts in 2009 include Scottish Police, Bovis Lend Lease and 
Speedy Hire.
Adoption of Cozart POC devices by HM Revenue & Customs to •	
help in the fight against drug-trafficking.
Successful roll-out of testing for benzene, a major carcinogen and •	
component of many maritime cargoes, to the Group’s installed 
maritime client base.
These contract wins, and others, combined with high customer 
retention rates have meant that we have seen year-on-year growth in 
all vertical sectors during 2008.
       Lab 
       Products 
  Criminal Work-  Medico- Health- & Intl  
£’m Justice place Maritime Legal care  distributors Total
2007  
(Pro forma) 6.9 4.8 5.9 3.6 10.7 9.9 41.8
2008 7.6 5.5 6.4 5.2 11.0 11.8 47.5
% Change 10% 13% 9% 44% 3% 19% 14%
Following the successful adoption of the ‘Concateno Model’ in the 
UK, we have started to roll-out the same model across Europe, 
offering a comprehensive DoA product and service offering. Initial 
successes have included:
Roll-out of hair testing to the Spanish market. •	
Rapid Development of a urine variant of the DDS product to meet •	
recent Italian workplace legislation (see below).
Distribution of POC products to Swedish Customs Service. •	
 
We see growth coming from a number of areas:
Growth in existing markets driven by increased acceptance of •	
regulation, growing prevalence of drug misuse and recognition by 
employers and government bodies of the benefits of structured 
testing programmes and associated support services. 
New product and service offerings to current and new customers •	
in the DoA arena (e.g. DDS-U, BBV, Benzene).
Expansion into new markets, either through geographical •	
expansion, or by leveraging off current relationships by offering 
new products and services. 
Excellence of Service
The Group has focused on ensuring that the highest standards are 
met at all times, illustrated by the fact that our Cardiff laboratory won 
the Queens Award for Enterprise in Innovation. Quality Assurance 
Managers are based at each of our laboratories to ensure that 
standards are rigorously applied and all Account Managers have 
been trained on the Group’s products and our expert toxicologists 
ensure that up-to-date advice and results of a consistent standard are 
given regardless of where our clients are in the world. We have also 
increased resources in our Customer Services department to ensure 
that customer queries are answered expeditiously and that we are 
pro-active in anticipating customer needs.
All of our locations are covered by third party accreditation and/ 
or certification. 
   ISO 17025  ISO 9001 
   Testing and  ISO 13485 Quality 
   Calibration  Medical Management 
   Laboratories Devices System
Abingdon  Yes Yes Yes
Canary Wharf  Yes NA Yes
Cardiff  Yes NA NA
Spain  NA Yes Yes Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 12
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued >
Further developments in 2009
Additional work will be undertaken during 2009 to integrate the 
businesses further including:
An ongoing procurement review to rationalise our product offering •	
and reduce costs including the development of a centralised 
warehousing and stock control system.
Integrated ‘New Product Development’ process leveraging •	
innovation and expertise across the wider group; forthcoming 
products include the next generation of oral fluid sample collector.
Progressing the development of the UK’s information management •	
systems including the Laboratory Information Management 
Systems (‘LIMS’), Customer Relationship Management tools, and 
finance systems.
Roll-out of a ‘Training Academy’ to develop our key staff. •	
We continue to invest in the businesses, with the latest laboratory 
testing equipment being maintained, so that we can meet the 
increased demands of our customers, test for a wider range of drugs 
of abuse and provide more detailed analysis to our clients.
We also continue to develop new products and services. The benzene 
and EtG tests announced in our last annual report have been 
successfully rolled out and in 2009 we are supplementing this with an 
emergency benzene test kit in case of an accident on site or at sea.
Following a change in legislation in Italy, we were able to develop a 
urine Point-of-Care device to provide a quantifiable reading. We 
brought this product to market within three months and we are 
already seeing encouraging sales in the first quarter of 2009. 
We have a pipeline of new products and services which we are 
currently developing and will roll-out over the forthcoming months 
and years.
We also continue to explore ways to make the sample collection 
process easier and more efficient. We have rolled-out a training 
programme to all our collectors around the world and reviewed the 
Quality Assurance process to ensure that standards of collection are 
consistently high and the integrity of the ‘chain-of-custody’ is 
maintained. We offer a 24/7 collection service. Our TrichoTech 
operation is also trialling ‘walk-in centres’ in Liverpool and 
Manchester.
The Group continues to develop the next generation of handheld 
drug testing devices in conjunction with Philips, and both companies 
announced the successful launch of the Magnotech technology at the 
Medica conference in Dusseldorf in November 2008. Development 
and commercialisation of the device is ongoing and launch is due in 
the second half of 2009.
By understanding and anticipating our customers’ needs and 
demanding exceptional quality in the products and services that we 
offer we feel that we are well positioned to benefit from the growing 
Drugs of Abuse testing market in 2009 and beyond.
Fiona Begley
Chief Executive Officer
30 March 2009
Case study
Concateno and Phillips share a commitment to  >
help reduce the impact of drug abuse
With drug abuse a growing issue in today’s society, Concateno and 
Philips share a commitment to working with government, employers, 
healthcare and law professionals to help reduce the impact of this 
problem. Since 2006 the two organisations have been developing an 
innovative handheld drugs of abuse detection device. The new 
solution will be launched to selected customers in 2009 and brings 
together Concateno’s expertise in the field of immunoassay 
development with Philips’ revolutionary ‘Magnotech’ technology.
 
‘The Concateno-Philips drug screening test will be the first product 
that features Philips’ Magnotech technology, a new biosensor 
technology that uses magnetic nanoparticles to measure low 
concentrations of target molecules in blood and saliva.’ said Marcel 
van Kasteel, VP of Philips and CEO of Philips Handheld 
Immunoassays. ‘This first collaboration is a means of demonstrating 
the excellence and robustness of the new technology with a company 
that is synonymous with road-side testing and is already working 
closely with government departments and police forces. It will be the 
catalyst for them to grow and expand their European and global 
markets. Magnotech delivers them a highly accurate result in less 
than two minutes from a saliva sample,’ added Mr. van Kasteel.
