 Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 08
Chairman’s Statement >
Keith Tozzi 
Chairman
> looking 
forward
‘Concateno has enhanced its market 
leading position by substantially 
increasing revenues and margins 
whilst maintaining high levels of 
customer service and retention.’
14
%
Increase in unaudited pro forma
1
 adjusted revenue
2008: £47.5m (2007: £41.8m)
£4 7.5
m
Revenue
(2007: £26.1m) 09
Concateno plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
I am delighted to report Concateno’s financial results for the year 
ended 31 December 2008. Following a series of acquisitions of drugs 
of abuse testing businesses the previous year, during 2008 we have 
transformed Concateno from a group of seven separate businesses 
into the integrated European market leader. 
Each constituent acquisition was an expert in its field, whether it be in 
the testing of a particular matrix (such as hair or oral fluid), through 
unique networks (such as Spinreact’s distributors or Medscreen’s 
global collection operation), or technical expertise (such as 
TrichoTech’s award winning hair testing methodologies, or Cozart’s 
state-of-the-art Point-of-Care devices). By integrating these 
businesses, we are now able to offer all this expertise to all our clients.
The success of this strategy in 2008 has been borne out by high 
customer retention, new contract wins, and growing cross-selling of 
products and services in both the UK and increasingly in 
overseas markets.
Sales in the year to 31 December 2008 were £47.5m (2007: £26.1m) 
and earnings before share-based payments, non-recurring items, 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) were £12.3m 
(2007: £6.2m
2
). Group profit before interest and tax was £4.2m (2007: 
£2.0m) and adjusted basic earnings per share increased to 6.34p 
from 5.29p in 2007. Further details are provided in the Financial 
Review on pages 13 to 15.
Operational Leverage
We stated at the time of the acquisition of Cozart in October 2007 that 
we would seek to achieve annualised operational synergies of £3m by 
the end of 2008, and as I confirmed in my Interim report in September 
2008, we actually achieved total synergies of £3.3m, that are 10% 
above our target and earlier than planned. With the integration phase 
now effectively complete we are focusing on leveraging operational 
synergies, by servicing existing and new customers through our current 
infrastructure. We are investing in our core sales, laboratory and finance 
business systems and undertaking further procurement reviews.
Our focus is on maximising value from our existing asset base 
through organic growth and driving international opportunities, 
extending the model that we have successfully implemented in the 
UK to Europe and other territories. Our strategy for international 
development is fourfold:
to drive organic growth from our existing operations; •	
to extend the ‘Concateno Model’ into territories where we have a •	
direct presence (such as Sweden and Italy); 
to leverage the current ninety distribution relationships and global •	
support network that we have around the world to selectively 
target specific markets and territories that are ready to develop 
drug testing (i.e. through regulatory change); and 
to make selective in-fill acquisitions in international territories to •	
accelerate growth.
Market dynamics
Each of our markets shows differing dynamics:
Criminal Justice •	 – moderate growth and higher margins in the UK 
underpinned by long term government contracts. Encouraging 
signs of international growth
Workplace •	 – an expanding pipeline of opportunities and customer 
conversions as regulation and best practice amongst employers is 
extended. We have a very low level of exposure to the pre-
employment market
Maritime •	 – continued growth in sales aided by new products and 
sales. The regulated oil and chemical tanker market in which we 
predominantly operate remains robust
Medico-Legal •	 – rapid adoption of hair testing in the UK Courts 
system has seen dramatic growth in our business. Exciting 
international opportunities exist in this field in which we are  
world leaders
Healthcare •	 – capped UK budgets have meant only limited growth, 
albeit with opportunities to develop access to budgets in disease 
prevention and the wider health service
Lab Products •	 – Spinreact continues to leverage its niche position 
in this large market. There are exciting opportunities in many 
developing economies
Our staff
I would like to thank all our staff for their continued hard work during 
2008 and for helping us make Concateno the industry leader in the 
European Drugs of Abuse testing sector. 
Offer update
On 8 July 2008, following press speculation, we confirmed that we 
had received a number of expressions of interest in Concateno and 
that we had appointed UBS Investment Bank as financial adviser to 
help the Board consider a range of options for enhancing shareholder 
value, including a possible sale of the Group. Since that time, we have 
been in an ‘Offer Period’. The Company is now at an advanced stage 
in that process and expects to be able to announce its conclusion in 
the relative short term.
Current Trading and Outlook
Despite the difficult wider macro-economic environment we have 
been encouraged by the trading performance of the Group in the year 
to date. We have good visibility over revenues, with approximately half 
of our sales generated from the public sector and an additional 
quarter from highly regulated private sector customers.
The Board believes that the Company is successfully delivering on its 
strategy and looks forward to 2009 with confidence.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on 14 May 
2009. The notice convening the AGM accompanies this report.
Keith Tozzi
Chairman
30 March 2009
1  Pro forma results (unaudited) are annualised results as if all business combinations 
were in place on 1 January each year.
2   See EBITDA reconciliation in Financial Review.
UK: Workplace testing – BBC uses Concateno’s reference data  >
Over the 2008 August Bank Holiday weekend, six BBC TV and radio programmes referred to 
Concateno’s workplace drugs and alcohol data for news and commentary. The broadcasts, 
including the top-rated BBC Radio 5’s Drive, Radio 4’s Today and BBC TV’s Working Lunch 
programmes, highlighted statistics indicating that drug and alcohol tests in the UK had risen by 
nearly a fifth in the first half of the year, with employers requesting over 100,000 workplace tests.
As Europe’s largest provider of drug and alcohol testing solutions, conducting over 8 million 
tests annually, Concateno has the most extensive reference database to draw upon, enabling 
drug misuse trends to be monitored, helping support employers, government and healthcare 
leaders in formulating their drug and alcohol policies. 
Case study
