 04
Hot Tuna (International) PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
It gives me great pleasure to give my first Chief Executive’s review since 
joining the Company on 1 June 2007. 
During 2007, the Group has made significant strides and secured the delivery 
of its products into important independent retailers in all of its core markets. 
STRATEGIC REVIEW
Since I have taken on my new role, the Board and I have been focusing 
on driving sales growth as well as creating efficiencies that will ultimately 
generate cost savings and improved margins for the Group. Hot Tuna have 
planned the global launch of their product for Spring/Summer 2008 and 
up until this season the operations have not been cohesive and as a result 
of many inefficiencies the margins generated and the operating result has 
not been favourable.
The first improvement in our process recommended during my global strategic 
review was a reduction in the number of manufacturing partners (from fourteen 
to three). This will enable quicker delivery times and added reliability through 
stronger relationships. Most importantly we will be in a much stronger position 
SHEA LOPEZ
Shea has enjoyed a successful career on the World 
Championship Tour (WCT), and remains one of the most successful 
athletes still competing in the water (and way above it!).
NIELS JUUL, CEO – with 
members of Homeboyz, a US 
charity that reforms hard-core 
gang members into working 
citizens, through special 
training and job-placements. 
Hot Tuna is a proud corporate 
sponsor of Homeboyz and 
recently organised a major 
event in California with its 
team riders, teaching ex-gang 
members how to surf.
Niels Juul is the one with 
the glasses.
SARAH BEARDMORE
Beardmore 24, originally grew up in Western 
Australia and now resides in Ballina on the East 
Coast of Australia. She won the 2006 Boardfest 
in Huntington Beach Califoria, was placed second 
in the 2006 Billabong Queensland Surﬁng Series, 
was a competitor on the World Qualifying Series, 
is a big character and personality on the women’s 
tour, and studied one year of bachelor of ﬁne 
arts and currently completing bachelor of 
business degree during travels.
US TEAM RIDERS
htfrontLR.indd   4 26/10/2007   10:42:29 05
Hot Tuna (International) PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
to negotiate better prices and therefore secure better margins. Additionally, 
we are in the process of establishing our own sourcing office in Shanghai. 
From here we will co-ordinate our production, quality control and global 
logistics, leading to substantial improvements in delivery rates and making 
sure that Hot Tuna is not only a strong brand but also a credible and efficient 
supplier for our distributors and main retail partners.
Secondly, our team will be moving to a new showroom in the Cooper Building 
in downtown Los Angeles, where Hot Tuna will feature alongside many other 
reputable fashion and sportswear leaders. The new showroom will give us 
instant access to fashion buyers whilst serving as our design, marketing and 
branding headquarters. Furthermore, all aspects of the design process will be 
overseen by myself from this central location whereas previously our designers 
were based across our three regional offices. These changes will reduce the 
overall design time by six to eight weeks, which is significant not only in terms 
of reducing the cost of the process, but it will also allow the Company to 
secure more orders by offering a quicker time to market. 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
UNITED STATES
The US’s launch plan was to establish an initial account base of ‘A’ grade 
independent surf retailers. The Company succeeded in securing orders from Jacks’ 
Surfboards, (voted Retailer of the Year 2006 by the Surf Industry Manufacturers 
Association (SIMA)). Jacks’ Surfboards are based in four locations in California, 
namely Huntingdon Beach, Newport Beach, Corona del Mar and Dana Point. 
Orders were also received from key accounts and trendsetting retailers in 
New York, Miami, Dallas, San Francisco and other major cities across the 
USA. Additionally, the Company has fulfilled orders from Diane Beachwear, 
a leading swimwear retailer with fourteen stores in southern California and 
the Cocoa Beach Surf Company (based in Florida). Cocoa Beach houses 
the largest surf complex in the world and is the location of Hot Tuna’s first 
concept store launched in Spring 2006. 
UNITED KINGDOM
The appetite for the brand within the UK is strong and this is illustrated by 
orders received from some of the most respected independents, including: 
Fluid, Two Seasons, Cult Clothing, Shore Watersports, Free Spirit, Extreme Pie, 
Shred Head and Surfdome.
Free Spirit is currently the largest and most prominent group on the high street 
for surf lifestyle and stocks all the main surf lifestyle brands. Free Spirit has 
38 stores nationwide. Extreme Pie is the online and mail order retail division 
of the Extreme Group and is now one of Europe’s largest online board action 
sports stores. The Extreme Group possesses a large customer base with 
the Extreme channel broadcasting non-stop through satellite.
In addition to the above, we have secured orders from Otto, the mail order and 
online sales group, who own titles such as Freemans and Grattan. Otto have 
established a new mail-order catalogue and online business called “Oli”, which 
will feature Hot Tuna men’s apparel and women’s swimwear going forward. 
Early sell through results have been very positive, with the Hot Tuna ranking 
in the top 20 selling mens’ brands.
...FASHION TREND SPOTTING AUTHORITIES 
HAVE RECENTLY RECOGNISED HOT TUNA AS 
ONE OF THE TOP TEN SWIM BRANDS TO WATCH 
FOR 2008
CODY GRAHAM
Cody Graham is perhaps the most fearless surfer ever to charge 
the biggest waves of Oahu’s North Shore.
Cody now heads Hot Tuna’s marketing team in Los Angeles 
and has been instrumental in assisting Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Niels Juul with the new brand direction.
US TEAM RIDERS
htfrontLR.indd   5 26/10/2007   10:42:35 06
Hot Tuna (International) PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
AUSTRALIA
In Australia, Hot Tuna has re-launched into the key independents including, 
amongst others, Glue, Surf Vision and Beach Street, however, our greatest 
achievement has been to secure orders from both Myer and David Jones, 
on a national level.
Myer is Australia’s largest department store with 60 stores nationwide. Myer 
placed orders for the Hot Tuna boys clothing range (8–16 years) and delivery 
of these products commenced during July 2007 to all Myer stores. Myer are 
also implementing 15 Hot Tuna concept stores into their retail premises which 
will be used to market and sell Hot Tuna accessories (backpacks, caps, wallets 
and sunglasses). The first sell through reports have been very encouraging, 
illustrating sell through of approximately 20% weekly, which is very impressive 
by industry standards.
DISTRIBUTION
Hot Tuna is continuing to pursue strong partnerships with distributors globally 
and will continue to foster new and lucrative relationships as the year goes on. 
Presently, we have distributors in Spain, Portugal and the Canary Islands, and 
most recently in the Middle East. In addition to selling apparel through established 
retail outlets, we have also reached an agreement with Sourcerite, our Middle 
Eastern distribution partner, to open a dedicated Hot Tuna store in Dubai by 
autumn 2008, which will significantly raise the brand’s profile in this region. 
MARKETING AND PROMOTION
On the marketing front we have successfully re-launched our new website 
and established an online sales store in the USA, which is expected to be 
rolled out globally. Hot Tuna has also been receiving a lot of encouraging 
fashion press from the recent trade shows and promotional activities, including 
most recently, the Mercedes Benz fashion show and the Home Boy Industries 
Charity Day in California. 
Hot Tuna has also recently signed a sponsorship agreement with another 
famous Australian brand, Carlton Cold, which is owned by Foster’s Brewing 
Group. Carlton Cold is aimed at adventure lifestyle-seekers, male and female 
18–35 year-olds, as is Hot Tuna’s surf apparel. Carlton Cold will support Hot 
Tuna’s surf team through a number of branding initiatives, and similarly Hot 
Tuna will support promotions run by Carlton Cold with Hot Tuna merchandise. 
The alignment of the two brands will raise awareness of the Hot Tuna brand 
and also facilitate Carlton Cold’s launch of their brand in the UK. This support 
marketing gives Hot Tuna access to new platforms and is intended to further 
drive the Group’s penetration of the trendy young adult market.
Hot Tuna also continues to support the sport of surfing through sponsoring 
athletes, events and grass roots surfing and surf schools. In August 2006, 
Hot Tuna signed former World No. 11 and X-Games Champion surfer Shea 
Lopez to its roster as lead team rider. Under the Hot Tuna banner, Lopez shot 
to the top of the 2007 Association of Surfing Professionals (ASP) ratings and 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
TOBY ATKINS
Hot Tuna signed Toby Atkins as its ﬁrst European team rider. 
Originally from Australia, Toby has been settled in Constantine 
Bay, Cornwall, England for the past four years and is one of the 
hottest young surfers in the country.
MICAH LESTER
Hot Tuna signed 26-year-old Micah Lester 
shortly after cinching his first British 
Professional Surfing Association (BPSA) 
Tour Championship title.
UK TEAM RIDERS
htfrontLR.indd   6 26/10/2007   10:43:04 07
Hot Tuna (International) PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Building on the great initial success of our kids ranges in Australia, we are 
also looking forward to the global launch of the Hot Tuna kids wear in the fall 
of 2008.
We remain very confident about the future of the brand and delivering results 
to our shareholders at same time as fostering a great, supportive working 
environment for all of our employees.
NIELS ANDERS JUUL
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
16 OCTOBER 2007
as of the date of press, he was the No. 2 surfer on the ASP World Qualifying 
Series (WQS) tour. In the United Kingdom, BPSA champion Micah Lester and 
British Professional Surfing Association (BPSA) – ranked No. 7 Toby Atkins were 
retained by Hot Tuna, ensuring a steady stream of national media play at the core 
of their sport, and top-flight representation at the highest levels of European 
and Australian competition. 
In March, the whole Hot Tuna surf team converged on Hot Tuna’s birthplace in 
support of the Company’s crown-jewel event of the year, the ASP 4-star-rated 
Hot Tuna Central Coast Pro Surfing Championship, held at Soldiers Beach, NSW, 
Australia. More recently, Hot Tuna was the sponsor of the prestigious BPSA 
Tour, held at Widemouth Bay, Cornwall. 
From sponsorship of world-class talent and championships, to support of local 
and regional athletes and events, Hot Tuna retains its global stature as a surfer’s 
surfing brand true to the sport and spirit of authentic surf culture. 
MOVING FORWARD
The year ahead looks very exciting and it has begun in a very positive manner. 
Subsequent to our recent brand “makeover” Hot Tuna has gained some high 
profile publicity and fashion trend spotting authorities have recently recognised 
Hot Tuna as one of the top ten swim brands to watch for 2008 (WGSN August 
DNR magazine). We have also strengthened the talent within our team, with 
the likes of Anna Kenney, one of the leading swimwear designers in the USA 
(former Ocean Pacific and Ralph Lauren) who brings tremendous experience 
and creativity to the team.
...WE HAVE ALSO REACHED AN AGREEMENT 
WITH SOURCERITE, OUR MIDDLE EASTERN 
DISTRIBUTION PARTNER, TO OPEN A DEDICATED 
HOT TUNA STORE IN DUBAI BY AUTUMN 2008
HOT TUNA HOSTS BEACH DAY EVENT FOR 
‘HOME BOYS’
Hot Tuna along with Pro Surfers Shea Lopez, Sarah Beardmore, 
Cody Graham and Sunny Garcia taught ex afﬁliated gang 
members to surf in Newport Beach, CA..
UK TEAM RIDERS
htfrontLR.indd   7 26/10/2007   10:43:15
