 09 Smiths News PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview
The Group as a whole has performed 
well, with financial and strategic progress 
across all divisions. We remain on track 
with our stated strategy of achieving 50% of 
profit from activities outside of newspaper 
and magazine wholesaling by 2016.
Smiths News increased operating profit 
by 2.5% to £40.0m. In what are challenging 
and mature markets, this is a particularly 
pleasing performance. Our track record of 
delivering sustainable operating efficiencies 
continues, with £8.7m annualised savings 
achieved through a combination of network 
restructuring and continual re-engineering 
of operating processes. We have now 
contracted 53% of revenues through to at 
least 2019, giving a high degree of certainty 
that will support and sustain future profits.
Bertrams increased operating 
profit by 6.1% to £7.2m. Highlights 
of the year include the acquisition of 
Erasmus, a specialist distributor based 
in The Netherlands; the acquisition of a 
range of academic supply contracts from 
Blackwell’s; and the launch of Wordery, 
an online book offer to consumers. The 
Group’s continued investments has ensured 
Bertrams now supplies a diverse range 
of sectors including UK trade, public and 
academic libraries, international markets, 
digital content to academic customers 
and trading direct to consumers. It is this 
range of channels which gives the division 
both resilience and future opportunity. 
The Consortium increased pro forma 
operating profit by 15.3% to £7.4m. 
In our first full year of ownership The 
Consortium has demonstrated its excellent 
fit and contribution to the Group. The 
Education and Care markets have strong 
underlying growth fundamentals and with 
the Group’s support The Consortium is 
well placed to increase profitability and 
market share. This year’s strategic priority 
has been the integration of West Mercia 
Supplies (acquired by The Consortium 
in April 2012) into one organisation, with 
consequent improvements in customer 
service and underlying efficiency. In 
addition we have invested in renewing 
websites, customer relationship software 
that will target and drive sales effort, 
and increased telesales resource. 
In October 2013, Glenn Leech took over 
from Melanie Teal as managing director. 
We now have a new and ambitious 
senior team at The Consortium, fully 
focused on growing the business 
and meeting our strategic targets. 
Media increased operating profit by 
11.1% to £2.0m. The division continues 
to pursue a strategy of winning print media 
contracts, improving operating efficiency 
and widening its provision of digital 
content. In April 2013, the Group sold the 
small marketing and fulfilment company, 
Marketlink Marketing Communications 
Limited (‘MMC’), concluding that its 
activities were not core to our strategy.
Group Chief Executive’s review
How have we performed?
‘We have delivered another 
strong financial performance 
with underlying PBT up 11.6% 
to £53.0m and EPS up 12.6% 
to 22.4p.’
It is pleasing to report another year of 
progress for the Group. Underlying profit 
before tax is up 11.6% with profit growth 
reflecting the strong market positions of 
all of our businesses in what remains a 
challenging economic environment. 
This was our fourth consecutive year 
of earnings growth and we remain on 
track with our strategy to develop the 
Group as a leading specialist distributor 
across a range of market sectors. Free 
cash flow of £32.6m has grown by 19.8% 
supporting an 8.1% increase in the full 
year dividend to 9.3p (FY2012: 8.6p).
