 03 Smiths News PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Earnings per share Pence
25
09 10 11 12 13
13.8
14.6
15.5
19.9
22.4
20
15
10
5
I am pleased to report that the Smiths News 
Group continued to deliver strong results. 
Earnings are up for the fourth consecutive 
year, with profit increases achieved by all 
the divisions in the current financial year. 
Our strategy of diversifying into carefully 
chosen markets has supported growth, 
facilitated new opportunity and positioned 
the Group to make further progress. 
The front section of this report includes 
details of our financial and strategic 
performance from which it is clear that the 
Group continues to make good progress 
towards its medium-term targets. This year, 
29% (FY2012: 24%) of our profit will derive 
from activities outside of newspaper and 
magazine wholesaling and we continue to 
work towards our target of 50% by 2016.
In what remains a challenging wider 
economy, it is ever more important to 
differentiate our offer. The Group’s key 
businesses are all leading businesses in 
their field and acknowledged experts with 
reputations for market leading service and 
cost-effective solutions. Our approach 
has been to invest and build on these 
qualities, focusing on those markets and 
sub-sectors in which our specialist skills 
can add value for customers and suppliers.
Smiths News remains the largest contributor 
to Group revenues and profit. The renewal 
this year of a number of major contracts 
provides an enviable degree of stability. 
This provides us with confidence that, 
by driving process efficiencies, we can 
broadly offset the long-term trend of 
declining sales. In addition, we will explore 
opportunities for growth through additional 
services and incremental contract wins, 
leveraging our core capabilities and assets. 
The books market is increasingly complex 
and traditional distribution models are 
changing. Under our ownership, Bertrams 
has become a multi-channel business, 
with strength in a range of specialist 
sectors and an increasing international 
reach. The Group’s acquisitions and 
investments have positioned Bertrams 
as a leading academic supplier across 
Europe. The continued growth of our digital 
platform and the early success of our 
joint venture with Wordery demonstrates 
how a changing market can provide 
opportunity for those prepared to invest.
We remain pleased with the performance 
of The Consortium since acquisition 
in April 2012. The Education and Care 
markets are forecast to continue growing in 
response to well documented demographic 
and policy trends. The increasing 
independence of schools, particularly 
the increase in ‘academy status’ schools, 
and the renewed focus on value in the 
public sector will add momentum to the 
underlying opportunity for further growth.
Turning to financial performance, underlying 
profit before tax is up 11.6% to £53.0m and 
underlying earnings per share increased 
12.6% to 22.4p. Free cash flow increased 
to £32.6m (FY2012: £27.2m). The Board 
is committed to maintaining strong 
returns to shareholders and, given our 
confidence in the future prospects for the 
Group, a final dividend of 6.3p per share 
has been proposed, making a full year 
dividend of 9.3p, up 8.1% on last year. 
I am conscious that this progress is 
ultimately due to the efforts and dedication 
of all of our colleagues throughout the 
Group. It is their capacity to embrace 
change while delivering excellence every 
day that is the foundation of our success. 
I would like to thank them for their 
dedication, and acknowledge the role of 
Mark Cashmore and his Executive Team in 
providing clear leadership across the Group.
Thanks also go to my colleagues on the 
Board for their support and challenge 
throughout the year. As described in the 
Corporate Governance section on page 36, 
we have carefully reviewed the role and 
effectiveness of the Board and I am pleased 
to report that we believe that the Board 
continues to work diligently and effectively.
In summary, the Group has delivered 
another strong performance, augmenting 
its track record of growth and strategic 
progress in a challenging environment. 
I can confirm that the Board remains 
fully focused on the strategies that are 
outlined in this report and look forward 
to reporting on future success.
Dennis Millard
Chairman
Chairman’s statement 
What is our strategy for growth?
