 Chairman’s statement
Record results
Peter Fellner 
Chairman
The Company saw record revenues and proﬁts  
for the last ﬁnancial year, and has strengthened  
the product pipeline.
2 I 
am very pleased to report that 
the Company has delivered record 
revenues and proﬁts before tax for  
the last ﬁnancial year. In particular, there 
has been a very strong performance 
within the Bespak business unit.  
New product launches and additional 
programme wins have positioned the 
business well for sustained growth.
Continuing growth 
Revenues from products and services 
grew by 8% to £136.6m (2011:£126.8m) 
and operating proﬁt before special items 
grew by 5% to £21.5m (2011: £20.5m). 
EBITDA increased by 15% to £28.8m 
(2011: £25.0m). Adjusted earnings per 
share increased by 15% to a record 52.2p.
Group cash ﬂow continued to be strong, 
and net debt remains tightly managed at 
1.3 x EBITDA.
Pipeline strengthening
The Bespak division continued to perform 
well, with encouraging trading in its core 
respiratory franchise and good progress 
in executing its strategy of diversiﬁcation 
into adjacent markets such as Point-of-
Care (POC) diagnostics and nasal drug 
delivery. The approval by the FDA and 
subsequent launch of the ﬁrst device to 
use Bespak’s proprietary Integrated 
Dose Counter is particularly pleasing, 
as it represents the culmination of a 
number of years’ development of this 
device. The development contract that 
was won to scale up Kind Consumer’s 
Oxette nicotine delivery device also 
represents a signiﬁcant potential 
opportunity for Bespak.
The King Systems division delivered mixed 
results for the year in challenging markets, 
with margin pressure from higher material 
prices not being passed on to customers. 
However, airways products and 
international sales achieved growth 
and the King Vision laryngoscope has 
been well received. This product, along 
with the beneﬁts to be delivered 
by the manufacturing automation 
programme, will position the division 
for growth going forwards. 
Board changes 
Several changes within the Board of 
Directors will occur during this year.
Toby Woolrych, Group Finance Director, 
has decided to leave after nearly four 
years with the Company. He will be 
stepping down later this month. 
The Board would like to thank him for 
his continued contribution to the growth 
and development of the Company during 
this period, and wishes him every success 
in the future.
He will be succeeded as Group Finance 
Director by Richard Cotton, who will join 
the Company and will be appointed as 
an Executive Director, with effect from 
25 June 2012. 
From 2008 to 2011 Richard served as 
Group Finance Director of Vitec Group plc, 
from 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance 
Director of Wagon plc, and from 2001 to 
2005 he was Group Finance Director of 
McLeod Russell plc. He qualiﬁed as a 
Chartered Management Accountant. 
After six years of service, Chris Banks 
and Jim Dick have decided to retire as 
non-executive directors at the Company’s 
AGM on 30 August 2012. Chris Banks was 
appointed in April 2006. He chairs the 
Audit Committee and is a Member of the 
Nomination Committee. Jim Dick, who 
was also appointed in April 2006, chairs 
the Corporate and Social Responsibility 
Committee, and is a member of the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination 
Committees. The Board would like to 
thank Chris and Jim for their valuable 
contributions during their tenures as 
Directors of the Company, and wishes 
them well for the future. 
The Company has therefore recruited two 
new non-executive directors, and I am 
delighted to announce the appointments, 
from 13 June 2012, of Steve Crummett and 
Ian Nicholson to the Board. 
Steve Crummett is Group Finance Director 
of Filtrona plc, a FTSE 250 company, 
having been appointed to the role in 2008. 
Filtrona is a leading international supplier of 
speciality plastic, ﬁbre and foam products. 
From 2003 to 2006, Steve was Group 
Director, Mergers & Acquisitions of the 
FTSE 100 company Exel plc. Steve 
qualiﬁed as a Chartered Accountant with 
Arthur Andersen. He will Chair the Audit 
Committee, and join the Nomination 
Committee. 
Ian Nicholson has been Chief Executive 
of Chroma Therapeutics Limited, a drug 
discovery and development company 
since 2004. He is Chairman of Bioventure 
Ltd, a diagnostics company, and a 
non-executive director of Symphogen A/S, 
an antibody therapeutics company. 
From 2000 to 2004 Ian was Senior Vice 
President, Business Development at 
Celltech Group plc, then the UK’s largest 
biotechnology company. He has extensive 
experience in licensing, mergers and 
acquisitions, and market development in 
the UK, Europe and the US. He will join 
the Nomination Committee. 
We warmly welcome the appointment 
of Richard, Steve and Ian to the Board. 
They bring substantial and wide-ranging 
experience and we look forward to 
working with them as we grow Consort 
for the beneﬁt of our stakeholders.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to our 
employees, and to thank them for their 
commitment throughout the year. I would 
also like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support for the Company.
Peter Fellner
Chairman 
13 June 2012
Key information  
for shareholders
 
8%
 
5%
 
15%
Revenue growth 
Operating proﬁt growth 
Adjusted EPS growth 
3 Consort Medical plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
