 6 Conviviality Retail Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s review
Creating successful relationships
“ These are strong results achieved during 
a period of significant change for our 
business and we are making good 
progress to deliver our strategy.”
Diana Hunter Chief Executive Officer
Overview
Over the last year we have been focused on 
building a long-term and sustainable future for 
our Franchise partners who work with the 
Group, for our employees who work for the 
Group and our shareholders. In a period of 
confirmed uncertainty for high street retailers  
we have focused on delivering against our aim  
of being the UK’s best value off-licence and 
convenience retailer. We have been working on a 
programme to deliver substantial change to the 
business, and we have made good progress in 
achieving these strategic objectives. The Group 
is committed to building and maintaining strong 
relationships with its Franchisee partners and 
growing the number of stores in its portfolio. 
Central to this is an incentivised and motivated 
Franchisee base. 
Results
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased 
£2.2 million to £9.3 million demonstrating the 
benefit of our new capital structure. First year 
earnings per share are 12.5 pence prior to 
exceptional items.
We are pleased to report profit slightly ahead of 
market expectations with EBITDA at £12.4 million 
against £12.6 million last year. We have improved 
the quality of the business through a managed 
rationalisation of the store portfolio and the 
acquisition of 22 Wine Rack stores generating 
turnover of £356 million, an increase of £20,000 
per store. Gross profit margin increased 0.7ppts 
helping EBITDA improve to 3.5% of sales from 
3.4% last year.
Post IPO the Group is debt-free. Following the 
acquisition and integration of 22 Wine Rack 
shops and seven corporate stores, the Group 
ended the year with net cash balances of £10.0 
million. Immediately post year end we further 
strengthened the store portfolio by investing £1.8 
million to acquire 31 Rhythm and Booze stores.
Strategy – To strengthen the relationship 
with our Franchisees to drive sustainable 
and profitable growth
The first steps toward achieving our aims were  
to create greater alignment between those who 
work with and for the Group and introduce a 
more stable and long-term capital structure. 
Becoming a public company enabled us to 
create equity to distribute to our Franchisees to 
give them a stake in the Group for the first time. 
This is the first scheme of this type, unrivalled  
in the market and offering free shares based  
on commitment to our brand standards. 
Franchisees are very aware of the growth in 
value of these shares (over 60%) and are keen  
to be rewarded for their part in the Group’s 
success. The full allocation to Franchisees is 
expected to be 1.2 million shares. A total of 351 
Franchisees achieved the required minimum 
standards to receive awards and 130 were 
granted the maximum award. New Franchisees 
receive share awards on their first anniversary 
and the scheme is becoming increasingly 
attractive to potential Franchisees.
We have made significant strides in the first year 
maintaining a level like for like performance 
against a tough competitive backdrop. We have 
recognised the need to drive increased levels  
of footfall, to ensure our brands are front of 
customers minds through clear and confident 
marketing, and ensuring our prices are 
competitive (promotions over 11% cheaper than 
the multiples), whilst still offering opportunities to 
up sell and create further margin opportunities. 
We have a new advertising campaign to 
emphasise to customers the great value we 
offer. We have continued to develop our 
capability in events and expect to improve our 
proposition in the year ahead as was evident 
during Easter and Christmas, when Bargain 
Booze stores achieved like for like improvements 
of 2.2% and 2.8% respectively.
Franchisee margin has also seen a consistent 
improvement every week and has improved  
on average by 0.3% year to date. Not all 
Franchisees have benefited at the same level 
and this is a key indicator of the varying 
performance across the business. With  
better management information to support 
Franchisees, more store visits to improve best 
practice and opportunities to discuss ideas, we 
expect more Franchisees to benefit. Franchisees 
also gain from an over rider scheme which 
rewards Franchisees quarterly for improving their 
wholesale sales. This scheme has paid out 
£365,000 in cash benefit to Franchisees this 
year, which is equivalent to 0.2% of margin 
improvement in the second half of the year. 
Overall Franchisees have seen the equivalent of 
0.5ppts improvement in their margin versus the 
prior year.
Strategy – To attract quality new recruits 
and incentivise growth from within
On Admission we identified that we would 
undertake a managed reduction of stores to 
improve the quality of our estate and store 
standards thereby making the Group more 
attractive to new recruits. We are also focusing 
on helping our existing Franchisees to maximise 
sales and profit in their catchment areas. Conviviality Retail Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
Strategic report Governance Financials
During the year 62 stores closed, the majority of 
which occurred during the first half. The impact 
on turnover was £15.7 million. We opened fewer 
new stores than planned and closed the year 
with 595 stores, 11 fewer than our stated aim. 
However, it has been encouraging to record  
that our average weekly sales per store have 
increased by £430. We expect this to improve 
further in the year ahead. We have concluded 
the bulk of our store closure programme and 
anticipate a lower number in the current year.
In May, we welcomed North East Convenience 
Stores to our Franchisee group as they acquired 
stores in Longbenton and South Shields. The 
North East is an area where we have identified 
further growth opportunities and this is a key 
step forward in our approach to the recruitment 
of high quality Franchisees. We have also 
continued our push into the South with new 
store openings in Ramsgate, Stevenage, 
Broxbourne and Leighton Buzzard. 
We are currently working with 25 existing 
Franchisees who wish to open more stores  
with us and our more targeted approach to  
site finding will support them in securing 
successful openings.
This represents a key shift in the momentum  
for growth and new store openings and the 
introduction of additional Franchisees will  
remain a priority.
Strategy – To strengthen the Bargain 
Booze brand, driving awareness and 
broadening its appeal to attract new 
shoppers
The high street is a challenging place to trade 
and we have to keep the brand vibrant and 
relevant to our customers. With Operation  
Spring Clean, we will uniquely invest in every 
Franchisee’s fascia and at the same time, collect 
accurate space data which is critical to us driving 
the next step change in margin improvement 
through mix. Our analysis of the performance  
of our existing estate has identified that there  
is further headroom for growth in many of  
our catchments. We will be working with our 
Franchisees to determine how to drive further 
sales in their catchments. 
Strategy – To build greater capability  
and credibility in wine to attract new 
customer groups
Our appointment of Susan McCraith, Master of 
Wine, has enabled us to build our credentials in 
wine and drive greater recognition for all of the 
brands in our wine offer. The wine category  
now accounts for a 1.2ppts increase sales 
participation and will as a result, drive more 
margin benefit for the Group and its Franchisees. 
Strategy – To undertake strategic 
acquisitions to drive long-term value
The acquisition of 22 Wine Rack stores and  
its website on 30 August 2013 significantly 
increased our credibility and capability in wine, 
accelerated our expansion into the south and 
provided a new fascia for growth.
The performance of Wine Rack during the 
Christmas and Easter trading periods was 
particularly pleasing with 21.8% and 6.4% like  
for like sales growth respectively. We are 
confident that customers are starting to 
recognise the improvements in the offer and 
value for money. Our new design Wine Rack 
store at West Byfleet has been received 
positively by customers and suppliers and  
we expect to roll-out this new design to further  
new stores. We have been pleased with the 
integration of the business and the progress 
being made to drive improved performance,  
and during the second half of the year sales 
improved by 1.4% and 23 new suppliers have 
started working with us. The Wine Rack 
proposition as a wine and spirits specialist on 
the high street offers our Franchisees another 
complementary fascia to operate alongside  
the Bargain Booze proposition.
The successful acquisition of Wine Rack was 
followed by the acquisition of 31 Rhythm and 
Booze stores during May and June 2014. The 
majority of the acquired stores are located in 
Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, which strengthens 
our presence in these areas with 6 of the  
31 stores converting to the Wine Rack fascia. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the  
31 stores acquired generated revenues of  
£16.6 million and net profits of £0.1 million.  
We are delighted with the acquisition of these 
stores and their teams, and the opportunity 
for growth they bring to the Group.
Strategy – To expand into new 
territories using a mix of 
fascias and formats
Having taken proactive steps to 
learn the lessons of the past 
approach to recruitment, we 
are creating a more robust 
site assessment and 
forecasting model, to use with 
both existing and potential 
new Franchisees. Through our 
analysis we have identified 
priority locations for growth for 
both Bargain Booze and Wine 
Rack fascias in the North East, 
Yorkshire and the South. 
Outlook 
The year ahead will see us start to reap the 
benefits of the acquisition of Wine Rack and the 
Rhythm and Booze stores, improve Wine Rack’s 
online presence, develop Click and Collect and a 
Bargain Booze App, trial a new larger format 
store and update the fascias across our existing 
estate through Operation Spring Clean.
Good progress has been made and more is 
ahead of us. We worked through the first part  
of our financial year as a private company, and 
transitioned to public from 31 July 2013. The 
impact of the change to a public company has 
been positive, although this created a pipeline 
lag in our new store openings as Franchisees 
begin to understand the opportunities that our 
change programme presents to them, in terms 
of additional rewards and a more resilient 
structure to the business. It has only been in the 
last quarter that we have seen the full benefit 
with our pipeline of new openings increasing.  
As we look ahead to the new financial year  
we will continue to build on this strong start to 
growth and continue to build on consumer 
enthusiasm for our brands.
We have a significant opportunity ahead of us 
and we are confident that the firm platform  
that we have put in place will deliver further 
improvements for our Company and its 
Franchise partners.
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
11 July 2014
