 04 Cosalt plc Annual report & financial statements 2009
Chairman’s statement Overview
Ch airman ’ s 	 s t a t e me n t
We are making good progress in 
g r o w i n g 	 o u r 	 b u s i n e s s 	 i n 	 t h e 	 O f f s h o r e	
and Marine industries
Overview
I am pleased to report that the Group continues to make 
progress towards its strategic objectives of becoming  
a specialist provider of critical safety equipment and services 
for the Offshore and Marine industries.
In August we announced a placing and fundraising to raise  
£17 million, net of expenses, which has provided the Group  
with financial stability and security to conduct its business  
and enable us to pursue our strategy.
Since our exit from the Holiday Homes business in November 
2008, we have focused on our core activities and aim to 
establish Cosalt over the longer-term in the international 
Offshore and Marine sectors. Given the geographical proximity 
between our European branch network and recent franchise 
awards for the Offshore renewable energy sector, we are 
hopeful we can offer our existing services into this growing 
Offshore activity.
In May, the Company entered into an agreement with Bridon 
International Limited, a major specialist wire rope manufacturer, 
to develop and expand its Aberdeen based activity serving the 
UK North Sea Offshore sector. Since the year end we have also 
secured a number of key contracts in both the Offshore and 
Marine divisions. The Group’s development will continue to be 
driven primarily by organic growth across both divisions where 
there remains scope for us to increase our market share. 
Results & financing
As previously reported, conditions in the Group’s markets 
became more difficult over the course of 2009. In the Oil and 
Gas sectors, the falling oil prices at the beginning of 2009 
prompted customers to defer spending. Similarly in the Marine 
sector, port activity and the volume of container traffic 
(particularly in Northern Europe) reduced. Market conditions  
in both the Offshore and Marine sectors in the first half of 2010 
continue to prove challenging.
Group turnover from continuing operations for the year was 
£107.8 million (2008: £105.0 million), a 2.6% increase. 
Headline operating profit from continuing activities was  
£8.6 million (2008: £9.5 million) while corresponding headline 
earnings per share were 4.2p (2008: 7.71p). Statutory loss  
for the period was £2.6 million (2008: £24.8 million) with 
corresponding loss per share of 2.93p (2008: loss 32.52p).
Following the approval of the Placing and Open Offer and  
Firm Placing at the General Meeting on 1 September 2009,  
the Group received net proceeds of £17 million which enabled  
it to reduce net indebtedness and achieve a more stable, long 
term funding structure. The strengthened financial position  
of the Company will facilitate the long term implementation  
of the Group’s strategy. Net debt at November 2009 stood  
at £18.6 million (2008: £26.8 million). 05 Cosalt plc Annual report & financial statements 2009
Overview Chairman’s statement
The Company issued 180,000,000 New Ordinary Shares 
through the Placing and Open Offer and 198,000,000  
New Ordinary Shares through the Firm Placing at a price  
of five pence per New Ordinary Share. 
We continue to manage our cost base down and cash 
management remains a priority. We have implemented a cost 
reduction programme across the Group which delivered net 
savings of approximately £1 million during the last financial  
year and annualised savings of £3 million. In addition to this, 
further cost cutting is being implemented in 2010.
Dividend
The Board has concluded that the current priority must  
be to conserve cash, and maintain a robust financial base from 
which to pursue the Group’s strategy and increase shareholder 
value. Accordingly, it is not recommending a final dividend  
be paid. The Board will continue to review its dividend policy  
on a regular basis, and will take account of the trading and 
strategic priorities in considering the level of future dividends.
Pensions
The Group’s defined benefits pension scheme was closed  
to future accrual on 31 December 2006 and active members 
were transferred into a stakeholder defined contribution  
plan. The deficit in the pension scheme according to 
International Accounting Standards has risen to £11.8 million 
(2008: £6.3 million), largely as a result of falling bond yields. 
Addressing the pension deficit is of primary importance  
for the Group.
Board & management
During the course of the year we have made three new 
additions to the Board. Calum Melville, currently responsible for 
our Offshore division, joined the Board as an Executive Director. 
We also appointed two new Non-Executive Directors. Maurice 
White is a mechanical engineer with a wealth of experience  
in the Oil and Gas industry, and Simon Gilbert has worked in  
a number of operational and investing roles and is a Managing 
Partner with Hanover Investments. I was re-appointed as 
Chairman, replacing David Hobdey who stepped down from  
the Board in November 2009. John Kelly, who was Chairman  
of the Group between 2005 and 2008, retired in January 2010 
after 22 years with the Group. On behalf of everyone at Cosalt  
I would like to thank David and John for the contribution they 
have made to the Group.
Current trading & outlook
Last year was one of consolidation for our core businesses  
and above all, we established a strong platform from which to 
develop the business. The Group is now focused on building  
its core critical safety equipment and services activities. We 
continue to make progress in establishing Cosalt as a specialist 
provider of critical safety equipment and services for the 
Offshore and Marine industries.
The market environment continues to be challenging as our 
customers delay investment decisions. However, we have taken 
action to reduce costs in response to the resulting lower 
revenues. Importantly, we have been successful in renewing 
and winning a number of new contracts which will contribute  
to an improvement in trading in the second half of the year.
David Ross
Chairman
2 February 2010
David Ross
Chairman
Placing and Open Offer and Firm Placing (net of expenses)
£1 7.3m
