 06 Cosalt plc Annual report & financial statements 2009
Chief Executive’s review Business review
C h i e f 	 E x e c u t i v e ’ s 	 r e v i e w
Strategy
I am pleased to report that we continue to benefit from the 
implementation of our strategy to become a specialist provider 
of critical safety equipment and services for the highly regulated 
Offshore and Marine industries. 
Through our two core divisions, Offshore (Oil and Gas) and 
Marine (Commercial & Cruise), the Company has developed  
a reputation for quality and reliability, and we have made great 
strides in targeting companies in highly regulated industries 
overseen by national governments and a common international 
platform. We work closely with advisory regulators such as the 
International Maritime Organisation (IMO).
Globally, the Offshore and Marine sectors we serve have  
an annual worth of approximately £4.5 billion and £1 billion 
respectively. Working within the frameworks of these markets  
is expected to underpin the Company’s growth prospects  
going forward.
We are building a high quality blue-chip customer base and 
focusing on larger operators who are increasingly wishing to 
work with fewer contractors on a longer-term partnership basis, 
in order to meet their global needs. In meeting our customers’ 
needs with their own development plans we are broadening  
our existing product range.
 
Today, Cosalt is predominantly a European operator but as  
our markets improve and our customers seek to extend their 
geographic reach then we will have the opportunity to support 
them in their expansion through the provision of products  
and services. 
Not only are we looking to expand our product and service 
offering but, due to the fragmented nature of the industry, we 
are also looking for opportunities to identify and make selective 
value enhancing moves to bolster our business portfolio.  
In addition, we intend to expand our businesses into emerging 
markets wherever they fit in with our core areas of expertise.
Operations 
Cosalt Offshore
Cosalt Offshore reported turnover of £44.3 million (2008:  
£41.8 million) and operating profit before special items of  
£5.3 million (2008: £8.3 million) for the year.
Cosalt Offshore operates out of three sites – Aberdeen, 
Stavanger and Lowestoft – and this gives us a pan-North Sea 
network of service and rigging centres. The division supplies, 
inspects, tests, maintains and manages a wide range of safety 
equipment from portable lifting equipment to lifeboats and 
liferafts. We also supply and service powered hand tools, 
Drager gas detection and breathing apparatus, working at 
height equipment and provide inspections on offshore fixed 
platforms and portable rigs.
We have experienced difficult trading conditions in the North 
Sea Oil and Gas sector over the past 12 months, with most 
clients tightening their investment commitments, particularly  
on capital expenditure projects. We have introduced new 
services to our client base such as wire rope and lifeboat 
services and this is going some way to make up for the shortfall 
in traditional business.
The division has been awarded a number of contracts including 
a three-year contract with BP , worth up to £4.5 million to  
supply all lifting equipment to BP and its subcontractors in  
the North Sea. We have also secured a three-year extension  
to our existing contract with CNR for lifting and inspection 
services in the North Sea and a one-year contract for crane 
inspection services with Subsea7 in Norway. We have also 
agreed a three-year contract extension with PSN, our largest 
customer, worth up £18 million to supply lifting and tooling 
equipment in the North Sea. Group revenue increased in the 
year as a result of a full year’s trading of the Norwegian 
acquisition. Margins were however, impacted as drilling projects 
were curtailed. 
We are a strongly focused and 
streamlined business, in good shape 
to deliver on our strategic objectives
Headline operating profit (2008: £9.5m)
£8. 6 m 07 Cosalt plc Annual report & financial statements 2009
Business review Chief Executive’s review
We launched Funis Veritas, a wire rope integrity management 
system, which complements our new business with Bridon 
International and includes the supply of specialist wire ropes. 
The initial response to this system, which monitors and controls 
the through-life integrity of large wire ropes, has been very 
positive with orders for both the management system and wires 
already in place.
Market conditions in 2010 are expected to continue to be 
challenging, however our product and service offering should 
give us an advantage over our competitors to secure new 
contracts in 2010, whilst cost reductions will form an important 
factor in maintaining profitability. 
Cosalt Marine
The Marine division delivered turnover of £63.6 million  
(2008: £63.2 million) and operating profit before special items 
of £4.9 million (2008: £2.1 million) through a number of 
significant contract wins and contract renewals.
The division, which comprises four main business units, namely 
UK Marine, Continental Marine, Crewsaver and Workwear,  
has a particular focus on regulated and legislated safety. 
Cosalt Marine secured and extended major contracts within  
all business areas including Netherlands MOD, UK MOD 
lifejackets and buoyancy aids, further cruise vessel lifejacket 
and liferaft hire contracts, a two-year extension with Network 
Rail for hi-visibility workwear, and a three-year contract  
with Babcock Rail for hi-visibility workwear. Additionally, the 
division won several other new contracts within the marine  
and industrial sectors that have excellent potential for further 
development.
During the year we launched several key new products in the 
marine sector including Crewsaver designed inherent and 
inflatable lifejackets. The recently introduced SeaCrewsader 
lifejacket achieved particular success in the North Sea offshore 
market and the new Premier 2010 lifejacket aimed at the cruise 
and ferry market won a Safety at Sea innovation award. This 
product was introduced to the market with advanced orders  
in line with the Board’s expectations. In the coming year, 
Crewsaver is launching a new range of Crewfit 190N single  
and twin chamber inflatable lifejackets. These products have 
already been well received by both customers and distributors.
Our Workwear business has developed a number of new 
products including hi-visibility clothing for use on the UK rail 
network and police public order clothing. It is currently working 
on a number of key competitive tenders including several  
major fire clothing fully managed service contracts, and  
we are looking to develop our product range offering across  
all business sectors. In particular, we are aiming to expand  
our lifeboat and fire equipment servicing on the continent and 
our existing liferaft hire contracts. We are also looking to secure 
the supply of new safety equipment to the cruise and ferry 
market with our new product designs and proven service 
model, we are well placed to secure further new business. 
In Marine, whilst shipping activity is still low, this is, in part, 
compensated by increased demand for Crewsaver branded 
products and some signs of renewed activity on UK lifting 
projects.
The actions which are being taken to align the cost base with 
current trading conditions will support the profitability of the 
Company in anticipation of an upturn in market activity.
Summary
We have achieved a number of key objectives over the past  
12 months, in particular exiting from the Company’s legacy 
businesses; strengthened the Group’s management team; 
focused our long-term strategy; and addressed the Group’s 
optimal long-term financing structure.
Although there is still much to do, we are now a more 
streamlined business, with a much improved capital structure 
and despite the challenging market conditions we can look  
to the future with momentum in our chosen market sectors.  
We are now well positioned to implement the next phase  
of our strategic development and I look forward to reporting  
on further progress in due course.
Mark Lejman
Chief Executive
2 February 2010
Mark Lejman
Chief Executive
Group revenue (2008: £105.0m)
£ 1 0 7. 8 m
