 14 Aero Inventory plc 2008 
Our Business Our Markets Our Strategy
Introduction
The 2007/08 financial year showed 
significant and exciting growth for  
Aero Inventory. Two key new contracts 
were signed and we continued to 
make progress in our operational 
performance to support the service 
levels to which we have committed. 
The year has not only benefited from  
a full year’s trading from our contract 
with Qantas but also includes 
significant contributions from the new 
contracts with ACTS and ANA (All 
Nippon Airways).
Review of results
Turnover for the year ended 30 June 
2008 increased by 78 per cent to 
$440 million (2007: $247 million). The 
largest part of the increase resulted 
from our new contract with ACTS, 
which generated higher revenues than 
originally anticipated, but the figures 
also benefited from a full year’s 
revenue contribution from our contract 
with Qantas. There was some 
expansion of our business with the 
HAECO group, particularly in China,  
as well as some expansion in revenues 
from SR Technics. The new contract 
with ANA also contributed to revenues 
in the latter months of the year. 
As a company listed on AIM we are 
now obliged to present our results 
under International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs). The two principal 
adjustments made are to show our 
Rupert Lewin
Chief Executive
capitalised IT development costs as an 
intangible asset rather than a tangible 
one and to retrospectively change our 
functional and presentational currency 
to US Dollars at 1 July 2006, resulting 
in the value of stocks being stated at 
the US Dollar values at which they  
were purchased. All the figures in this 
statement are shown in US Dollars 
including comparative figures from last 
year and almost all our trading and our 
debt is now denominated in US Dollars. 
The change in reporting currency is a 
logical step for a business that trades 
almost entirely in US Dollars and gives 
a clearer picture of the underlying 
financial performance. 
Operating profit rose by 76 per cent to 
$93.3 million (2007: $52.9 million) with 
significant contributions arising from the 
new contracts (ACTS and ANA) and 
continuing contributions from Qantas, 
SR Technics and HAECO. The operating 
margin remained at 21 per cent.
Net interest payable amounted to 
$20.2 million (2007: $7.3 million) 
reflecting a higher level of borrowings 
following the commencement of the 
contract with ACTS. The pre-tax profit 
was $73.1 million (2007: $45.6 million).
After a tax charge of $21.5 million 
(2007: $14.5 million) – an effective rate 
of 29.4 per cent (2007: 31.7 per cent) 
– profit after tax was $51.6 million 
(2007: $31.1 million) and basic 
Chief Executive’s statement
The full operational go-live of the Qantas 
and ACTS contracts during the course 
of the year trebled the operational 
transactions processed by Aero Inventory.
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page Aero Inventory plc 2008 15 
Governance Our Performance Financials
earnings per share were 108.7 cents 
(2007: 65.9 cents). Diluted earnings 
per share were 102.0 cents (2007: 
65.3 cents).
Net debt at the year end was $391.0 
million compared to $110.6 million  
at 30 June 2007. Although we have 
strong positive operational cash flow 
from our established customers, we 
invested heavily in the year to support 
our contracts with ACTS and Qantas. 
In particular we acquired $95 million of 
stocks and intellectual property from 
ACTS in November 2007 and then 
purchased further parts to support the 
higher than expected levels of trading 
at ACTS. The intellectual property 
consisted principally of the database 
of parts usage in historic maintenance 
activity which has a considerable value 
to our business. We will be amortising 
the cost of the intellectual property 
purchase over the initial ten year term 
of the ACTS contract.
Year-end shareholders’ funds 
amounted to $294.2 million (2007: 
$253.8 million). This takes into account 
the retained profits for the year less 
dividends paid during the year.
The year-end consolidated balance 
sheet once again shows significantly 
increased stocks at $690.1 million 
(2007: $390.9 million). The principal 
increase in stock levels reflects the 
inventory purchase connected with our 
contract with ACTS. In addition to the 
initial stock purchase referred to above 
we also made further purchases of 
stock during the period to enable us to 
achieve the service levels to which we 
had contractually committed to, 
particularly for the contracts with ACTS 
and Qantas. High levels of stock have to 
date been necessary to provide a high 
level of performance for our customers 
and, as our business expands further, 
we are increasingly well placed to 
service new customers from our existing 
stocks. As our contracts mature and as 
the initial stocking requirements are met 
there is a significant reduction in monthly 
stock purchases; in September 2008 
stock purchases are expected to be 
some 40 per cent below the level seen 
in March 2008. 
Growing stock efficiencies 
The commonality of parts between our 
growing customer base is increasing. 
On average 73 per cent of our active 
parts on hand at the year end are  
used to service two contracts and this 
presents considerable opportunities  
to us to improve the utilisation of our 
stocks. The increasing commonality  
of our stocks coupled with improved 
purchasing and secondary market 
trading is beginning to improve our 
stock turn. Despite the stock increases 
required to support our newer contracts, 
annualising the last quarter’s revenues, 
Group revenues are running around  
80 per cent of period end stocks,  
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page 16 Aero Inventory plc 2008 
Our Business Our Markets Our Strategy
the same level reported at the end of 
our half year.
Transfers of stock between sites are 
also increasing as we seek to locate 
stocks where they are most likely to  
be consumed by customers. Some 
$18 million of stocks were transferred 
in the second half of our financial  
year compared to only $9 million 
transferred in the first half. We have 
also increased the amount of stock 
sold to non-contract customers. 
Enlarged bank facilities
In February 2008 we signed a new 
syndicated asset based lending facility.  
The new five year syndicated facility 
was led by Lloyds TSB Commercial 
Finance and is an asset based lending 
facility secured on Aero Inventory’s 
stocks and trade debtors in the UK, 
Switzerland, Ireland, Canada, the 
United States, Hong Kong, Australia 
and Japan. As was anticipated the 
facility was further extended in June 
2008 to $500 million. The asset based 
lending facility is well suited to the 
business given its potential 
for expansion.
The Group’s bank facilities have 
therefore risen from £85 million 
(equivalent to $170 million) to $500 
million during the year and this 
increase has given the business  
the capability to take on significant 
amounts of new business, in particular 
the contracts with ACTS and ANA. 
Dividend
Reflecting our confidence in the future, 
the Board is recommending the 
payment of a final dividend of 12 
pence per share (equivalent to 23.7 
cents per share at the period end 
exchange rate). Taken with the interim 
dividend of 6.0 pence per share 
(equivalent to 11.3 cents per share) 
paid in May 2008, the total dividends 
for the year amount to 18 pence 
(equivalent to 35.0 cents at the period 
end exchange rate). The final dividend 
will be paid on 11 December 2008  
to shareholders on the register on  
14 November 2008.
Operational review
Aero Inventory’s business is essentially  
a straightforward one and just seeks  
to ensure that the right parts are 
available to customers at the right 
time. However the number of parts 
required, the number of sites involved 
and the irregularity of the usage of 
parts used in maintenance as well as 
all the challenges of operating a global 
supply chain provide great complexity. 
We now hold in stock over 50 million 
individual parts with over 400,000  
part numbers held in over 40 different 
locations. The number of part picks  
in a typical month now approaches 
200,000.  
Given these complexities in our 
business and our rapid growth we 
constantly need to continue to develop 
and improve the operational procedures 
Chief Executive’s statement continued
We now hold in stock over 50 million 
individual parts with over 400,000 part 
numbers held in over 40 different locations. 
The number of part picks in a typical 
month now approaches 200,000.
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page Aero Inventory plc 2008 17 
Governance Our Performance Financials
within the business. We continued to 
develop our operational structure during 
the year in order to provide a robust 
framework to support both current 
operations and future business and we 
have expanded our global presence 
significantly. Strong central direction 
from the UK head office is 
underpinned by highly capable 
regional offices which deal with 
customers and suppliers around the 
world in their own regions and time 
zones. This structure enables 
customer service and responsiveness 
to be maximised. It also allows strong 
relationships to be developed with 
suppliers in different regions and 
provides access to all relevant sources 
of parts while bringing to bear Aero 
Inventory’s position as an increasingly 
important player in the aircraft parts 
supply chain. Good progress was 
made during the year in strengthening 
our relationships with a number of  
key suppliers.
It is worth noting that the full 
operational go-live of the Qantas and 
ACTS contracts during the course  
of the year trebled the operational 
transactions processed by Aero 
Inventory compared to the previous 
activity level.
We have continued to develop Aero 
Inventory’s proprietary system, Parts 
Central, to support the growing 
business. We also invested in the 
infrastructure of our IT resource to 
support the ever more widely spread 
locations and to provide greater 
capacity and resilience.
In a year which saw us complete our 
work to bring the Qantas contract  
into full operation, we also remained 
strongly focused on our existing 
customers and it is very pleasing to 
report that we achieved high service 
levels with all our major customers, in 
all cases achieving better performance 
levels than were previously achieved 
by customers’ in-house operations.
In more detail, the key operational 
developments during the year were 
as follows:
Canada – Our largest contract, with 
ACTS (shortly to be renamed Aveos 
Fleet Performance), was signed in 
November 2007 and we are well on the 
way to full contract implementation. We 
have opened an office in Canada and 
have recruited a team to support the 
four ACTS locations across Canada  
and the ACTS subsidiary, Aeroman,  
in El Salvador.
Japan – Following the signing of our 
contract with ANA in March 2008 we 
have opened an office in Japan and are 
currently involved in recruitment and 
detailed contract implementation.
Australia – Our office in Melbourne has 
some 50 locally recruited staff to support 
the supply of parts to the four Qantas 
+78%
Revenues up to $440m
The HAECO Group  
carries out passenger aircraft  
to freighter conversions as part 
of its range of services
+76%
Operating profit up to $93.3m
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page 18 Aero Inventory plc 2008 
Our Business Our Markets Our Strategy
maintenance and repair locations in 
Australia. The Australian team also 
deals with the local Australian supply 
base. Contract implementation was 
successfully completed in July 2007. 
Many of the developments in operational 
procedures and IT systems developed 
for Qantas are now being used to 
improve our service at other sites.
Europe – Our major contracts with  
SR Technics in Zurich, Stansted and 
Dublin all performed satisfactorily. This 
business is operated from our office in 
New Barnet in the UK, supported by 
local on-site account support staff.
Hong Kong and China – Business in 
Hong Kong and China has continued 
to grow, largely driven by increasing 
business with HAECO’s subsidiaries in 
China, TAECO in Xiamen and STAECO 
in Jinan. We have enlarged our local 
support team in Hong Kong and we 
also have a dedicated warehouse and 
distribution facility. As well as providing 
the interface to customers in the region, 
the Hong Kong team has responsibility 
for procurement and purchasing from 
our Asia Pacific based suppliers.
Middle East – We continue to  
support ADAT in Abu Dhabi and have 
opened a small facility in Bahrain to 
support HAECO.
Indonesia – Business in Jakarta 
continues to be satisfactory with good 
potential for further expansion. 
United States – The team based at 
our facility in Los Angeles has 
expanded significantly during the  
year. The number of buyers there in 
particular has increased to service the 
US based supplier base. The facility 
also acts as a logistics consolidation 
point for the considerable volumes of 
material which we source in the US for 
supply to our customers worldwide.  
In addition we have positioned some 
inventories not immediately required 
for current customer contracts in the 
facility and we market such materials 
to customers in the US.
Staff
During the period, Aero Inventory 
increased headcount significantly  
from 268 at June 2007 to 371 at  
June 2008. Over 50 per cent of our 
staff are now based outside the UK.  
This is a clear demonstration of the 
globalisation of Aero Inventory’s 
business. 
There has been a major recruitment 
exercise in Canada to support the  
new contract with ACTS. An 
experienced team has been assembled 
with backgrounds in operational 
management, procurement, purchasing, 
inventory and demand planning. There 
has also been considerable expansion 
at our Los Angeles facility where we 
have increased our number of buyers 
in particular, so that they are based in 
the same time zone as the suppliers 
they buy from. More recently we have 
also been recruiting for our new 
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Aero Inventory has grown its revenues 
and profits considerably in the last 
financial year. Aero Inventory is  
now an established industry player  
and in an excellent position to win  
further contracts.
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page Aero Inventory plc 2008 19 
Governance Our Performance Financials
contract with ANA in Japan. At a 
global level, we substantially increased 
our training efforts to ensure that all 
staff are equipped with the skills to 
maximise their effectiveness and 
contribution.
Current trading and prospects
Aero Inventory has grown its revenues 
and profits considerably in the last 
financial year and has strengthened  
its position within the industry. Aero 
Inventory is now an established 
industry player and in an excellent 
position to win further contracts. The 
business is also now realising some  
of the benefits of its increased size  
and is beginning to use its stock more 
efficiently which will lead to improving 
stock turn and cash flow. Although 
there is much more that needs to be 
done to achieve optimum stock turn 
we are now accelerating our plans for 
improvements in the current year.
Airlines are now being forced to react 
to the impact of both increased fuel 
costs and recessionary pressures and 
this has resulted in more enquiries for 
new business than ever before. This 
places Aero Inventory in an excellent 
position to win new contracts in 
addition to working on the successful 
implementation of our contracts with 
ACTS and ANA.
Rupert	 Lewin	 Chief Executive 
22 September 2008
Aero Inventory supports Aveos Fleet Performance Inc., 
with parts for its engine, airframe and component  
maintenance solutions
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page
