 12 Aero Inventory plc 2008 
Our Business Our Markets Our Strategy
Nigel McCorkell
Chairman
Strong growth
I am pleased to report another year of 
substantial growth from Aero Inventory, 
with revenue up 78 per cent, pre-tax 
profits up 60 per cent and diluted EPS 
up 56 per cent. We are proposing an 
increased final dividend of 12 pence 
per share to give total dividends for  
the year of 18 pence. Aero Inventory 
has now reinforced its position as a 
leading aircraft consumable parts 
service provider and is better placed 
than before to continue its expansion.
Asset based borrowing facility
As well as the strong financial results,  
I would like to highlight the $500 million 
asset-based long-term financing facility 
that we put in place during the year. 
This innovative financing reflects the 
quality of our stocks and debtors and 
the quality of the cash flows from our 
long-term contracts. The interest rate 
on this facility is US Dollar LIBOR +3 per 
cent. The facility has been designed to 
be expandable as Aero Inventory grows.
The future
Aero Inventory’s strategy is to grow  
the business rapidly and profitably  
by securing further long-term sole-
supplier contracts with airlines or 
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul 
companies (MROs) to supply a wide 
range of consumable parts used in 
commercial aircraft maintenance. The 
market is very large and continues to 
grow despite the recent pressures on 
the airline industry and this presents  
a considerable opportunity for Aero 
Inventory. During the last year there 
appears to have been a tipping point 
in airlines’ attitude to the outsourcing 
of consumable parts. Following many 
approaches from major airlines, we  
are currently discussing a number of 
potential multi-year contracts with an 
aggregate value of several billion US 
Dollars. While such a level of new 
business will involve challenges, we 
think it is essential that Aero Inventory 
takes this unique opportunity to secure 
a dominant position in its marketplace.
Further rapid expansion of the 
business should bring considerable 
benefits to shareholders. This is 
because new contracts are not 
expected to involve a proportional 
increase in operating costs or stocks, 
meaning that the profitability on 
incremental business should be high. 
There are increasing opportunities to 
reduce the total amount of stocks that 
need to be held by the business and 
this provides considerable potential  
to improve both stock turns and  
the return on capital employed.  
The unsolicited approach received  
by the Group in June 2008 by  
a potential offerer is, I believe,  
a reflection of the increasing 
attractiveness of the business.
Chairman’s statement
During the year there appears to have 
been a tipping point in airlines’ attitude 
to the outsourcing of consumable parts.
We	think	it	essential	that	Aero	Inventory	 take	this	unique	opportunity	to	secure	a	 dominant	position	in	its	market	place.
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page Aero Inventory plc 2008 13 
Governance Our Performance Financials
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Aero Inventory Long-Term Incentive 
Plan was approved by shareholders 
and adopted by the Group in 
December 2007. It provides an 
important incentive to management to 
maximise the growth of the business 
and provides substantial rewards to 
management if the Group’s share price 
reaches 1500 pence per share at the 
end of three years.
Appointment of joint broker
I am pleased to announce that Numis 
Securities Limited has been appointed 
as joint broker to the Group. We look 
forward to working with both our 
brokers to maximise shareholder value.
Thanks to staff
Our success is driven by our employees. 
They play the key role in helping us  
meet client service expectations and in 
supporting our growth. The Board would 
like to welcome those who have joined 
the Group during the year and to thank 
everyone across the Group for all their 
hard work during the year.
Nigel	 McCorkell 
Chairman 
22 September 2008
+60%
Pre-tax profits
Air Canada is a major customer of Aveos Fleet 
Performance Inc. Now an independent 
maintenance and repair organisation, it was 
formerly Air Canada Technical Services
+56%
Diluted EPS
Back to contents Next page Previous page Back to contents Next page Previous page
