 04 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Greater focus will also allow us to play 
to our core strengths, including a
reputation for technical capability coupled
with exceptional customer service.
Costain’ s recent successes have
highlighted, in many areas, a quality and
delivery of a far higher calibre than that 
of the competition. Now we must ensure
that this is a consistent theme across all 
of our operations and that everyone in the
business strives for continual excellence.
This is not new territory for Costain and
our people are very ambitious. We are
already the market leader in Asset
Management in the water sector where, 
in 2005, we were successful in renewing
all of our ﬁve-year framework contracts
and, in most cases, with enhanced
opportunity of increased turnover. 
Our people regularly receive awards 
and praise for their work. We have 
a skills base second to none, which 
is enhanced through our training and
general development programmes. 
The components of success are to 
be found in many parts of the business.
Our priority is to ensure that they are
replicated across the whole Group.
Chief Executive’s
report
I am delighted to have been given the
opportunity to lead one of the UK’ s best
known construction and engineering
companies. 
My impression of Costain before my
arrival in August 2005 was of a company
with a strong brand, quality contracts and
talented people – all of the raw materials
needed to take a business forward. 
Since joining, I have met many of the
Group’ s skilled and dedicated people 
and spoken to a wide range of
customers. There is much to inspire
conﬁdence. My predecessor, Stuart
Doughty, and his team had achieved 
a great deal. The business has grown,
there is a good order book with an
emphasis on long-term relationships 
and there is a belief, both internally and
externally, in the Group’ s ability to build 
on its recovery.
When I arrived, I said that my intention
was to embark on a course of ‘evolution
not revolution’. That remains the case. 
I have spent a considerable amount of
time analysing the strengths of Costain
and the areas which could and will be
improved. A clear conclusion was that, 
as the Group expanded during its
recovery phase, resources in certain 
parts of the business, especially in
Building, were stretched. Management
teams in those areas have been
signiﬁcantly strengthened and working
practices brought into line with those 
in the rest of the Group. 
With my fellow Executive Board Directors,
I have completed a strategy document –
‘Being Number One’. This has been
approved by the Board and will provide
the foundation for future Costain success.
‘Being Number One’
‘Being Number One’ is about striving for
leadership through focus and excellence.
Capitalising on our core strengths, it is 
a strategy to ensure that we are the best
in everything we do. Our approach is
underpinned by a strongly held belief that
developing strong market positions is a
pre-requisite for sustainable proﬁtability
and cashﬂow. 
T o grow and to create strong market
positions, we need to adopt a greater
focus in fewer areas of operation. This will
enable us to commit more resources to
those areas where we believe we have
competitive advantage and where we can
generate the greatest return.
Above: Andrew Wyllie, Costain Chief Executive,
briefs colleagues at the Channel Tunnel Rail
Link project at St Pancras. 05 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
2006 objectives
T o ensure that we deliver our strategy, 
we have set some clear objectives for
2006 which are:
> T o maintain our priority on the
management of Health and Safety, 
with zero tolerance for accidents
> T o focus our efforts and develop 
even stronger positions in our key
targeted markets
> T o achieve progress towards our three
year objective of double-digit growth 
in turnover and underlying proﬁt 
> T o provide a challenging and stimulating
working environment where our people
enjoy their jobs, can fulﬁl their potential
and are recognised for their efforts
> T o ensure we achieve improved
customer satisfaction scores by
providing excellent and innovative
project and framework solutions
> T o continue to develop our supply chain
through closer working relationships
with a reduced number of key suppliers 
> T o implement Best Practice and
rigorous risk management across
Costain to ensure that our operations
are as efﬁcient and effective as possible.
Safety, Health and Environment
I have made it clear, both internally and
externally, that safety will continue to be
Costain’ s ﬁrst priority. Everybody in the
business has a corporate and individual
responsibility to ensure that our operations
are properly and effectively managed 
in a safe, healthy and environmentally
controlled manner. We will adopt a zero
tolerance to accidents. 
We cannot afford to fail in this area, 
not least because we know that excellent
health, safety and environmental
performance also has a direct correlation
with bottom line business results. 
It makes good business sense for both
the Company and our customers. 
We are working closely with the Health
and Safety Executive (HSE) and the Major
Contractors Group on the introduction 
of further initiatives relating to speciﬁc
issues including noise, lifting, vibration
white ﬁnger, stress and asbestos working.
The Costain Safety, Health and
Environment (SHE) culture will be
developed through continuous
improvement across our operations.
Although our current performance 
places us in the upper quartile of our
industry peer group of Major Contractors,
we are still not satisﬁed, and are aiming 
for Costain to be recognised as being 
at the very vanguard of SHE leadership.
‘Being Number One’
is about striving 
for leadership
through focus 
and excellence.
Andrew Wyllie
Achieving leading market positions
Our strategy is focused on building 
long-term partnership and framework
relationships with large sophisticated 
‘blue-chip’ customers, who have the
ability to place repeat orders with Costain. 
These major customers are looking 
for Costain to deliver much more than 
just consistently high-quality projects.
Within long-term framework relationships,
they are also looking for us to be
proactive in delivering tangible beneﬁts 
to their businesses. T o do this on 
a consistent basis requires us to have 
a detailed knowledge of their operations
and the challenges that they face,
whether they be a water utility, a retailer 
or Government department. T o provide
such a service naturally requires a high
degree of sector expertise, a specialist
supply chain and teams led by
knowledgeable people. 
All of the major customers in the industry
are moving – in one form or another –
towards longer-term relationships with
contractors, and are increasingly
demanding higher levels of sector
expertise and service. Our future success
will depend on our ability to focus and
properly align our organisation to be 
at the forefront of meeting these sector
speciﬁc needs.  06 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
In the water sector, we are already the
number one contractor, and we have
every intention of retaining that position.
Costain’ s success in water is the result of
a focused strategy in pursuit of the market
leading position and the deployment of
specialist teams to deliver results. 
Drawing on the water model, we intend 
to repeat that success elsewhere,
speciﬁcally in the roads, health, education,
nuclear, rail, marine, retail, airport and oil 
& gas sectors. We will also seek to grow
our Spanish land development activity. 
In all of these markets, we already have 
a signiﬁcant presence on which we intend
to build, and our skills are recognised in
UK and international markets. 
In roads, for example, we are currently
number two and hold the leading position
in the Highways Agency Capability
Assessment T oolkit (CAT 2) that measures
a contractor’ s capabilities. Recently, 
in joint venture, we pre-qualiﬁed for the
M25 PFI scheme, which is valued at 
£1.5 billion. This is the largest single PFI
road scheme to be issued to the UK
roads market. Pursuing awards such 
as this will help to achieve our goal of
attaining the market leader position.
We have made good progress in other
sectors too such as education and health.
Key individuals, with specialist sector
knowledge, have been appointed and
high-quality teams are actively pursuing
new opportunities. 
The construction market is generally
buoyant and there is a high demand 
for the services provided by Costain. 
This positive environment is good news
and allows us to be more selective in
ensuring that we achieve proﬁtable growth.
Financial growth
It is important that we continue to grow
our business so that we can achieve 
even stronger market positions, provide
numerous career opportunities for our
people and deliver increasing returns for
our shareholders.
We will deliver our 2006 proﬁt and
turnover targets through a range of
initiatives such as customer targeting,
product innovation, effective key account
management and building stronger
relationships with clients. This objective 
is underpinned by having already secured
£760 million of turnover for 2006. 
People
Our success will depend largely on the
quality of our people. Simply put, to be
the best and to be Number One, we will
need to continue to recruit, retain and
develop the very best people.
We have a vibrant, challenging and
growing business – and an environment
that provides tremendous opportunities
for everybody. Our policy is to provide
proper recognition and reward for the
efforts of both individuals and teams,
where appropriate. We are committed 
to linking reward to performance.
We are prioritising training and
development, detailed performance
reviews and succession planning. 
We have already put in place an 
Executive Development Programme 
for senior management advancement.
The majority of participants have already
been promoted. 
As we continue to grow we must further
develop project management, design
management and commercial skills
through forums and the general sharing 
of best practice. 
Customer satisfaction
Improving customer satisfaction by
understanding their needs and exceeding
their expectations through excellent
delivery is essential to achieving repeat
orders. We must also work to enhance
our reputation with our customers so that
they recommend us to others.
Key Account Managers have been
appointed for each of our customers. 
It is their job to manage and co-ordinate
the overall Costain relationship with that
customer. It is also their responsibility to
maximise the number of projects and
services that we provide to that customer
from across the Costain organisation. 
We ask our customers to provide regular
detailed feedback on our performance
increasingly using the Costain Heartbeat
approach, which is the Company’ s 
in-house scorecard to measure
performance. We monitor the feedback
by project, division and across the whole
of Costain and, we take appropriate
action where necessary.
It is encouraging that our customer
performance results generally indicate 
a steady improvement. However, detailed
analysis indicates that there is still room
for speciﬁc improvement. Enhanced
targets have been set for 2006 to 
ensure that we continue to enhance 
our reputation with our customers.
Supply chain
Costain recognises the potential for
enhanced performance through
developing long-term partnership
relationships with suppliers. 
These mutually beneﬁcial relationships,
based on trust and a common set of
objectives, deliver real business beneﬁts
to both parties. By providing greater
certainty of future workload to our
suppliers, we generate commitment,
encourage innovation, strip out duplicated
and abortive costs, improve efﬁciency 
and increase reliability. 
T o achieve this, we are concentrating on
supplier development within key trades
and have set a speciﬁc supply chain
action plan. This includes a reduction in
the number of suppliers.
Risk management 
When a customer purchases a project
from Costain, that customer rightly
expects the very best service that we can
offer. Likewise, it goes to the heart of our
values that Costain people are committed
to doing a good job.
Consequently, we have set out clear
procedures to help ensure that we deliver
our objective of consistently high levels 
of service. These processes are called the
Implementation of Best Practice (IBP) and
are mandatory on every Costain project.
I am committed to ensuring we have 
a strong focus on processes, and that
these are constantly reviewed and
updated to ensure that they are still as
relevant, efﬁcient and effective as they
should be. An important area that will
receive much attention in 2006 is design
management.
Chief Executive’s report
continued 07 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
We must also appreciate that there are
risks associated with some of the things
that we do, and so live risk registers are
maintained on every project. Risk
assessments are carried out on all of our
activities and, where appropriate, detailed
method statements are put in place.
Risks and opportunities are also reviewed
at a corporate level, and a new Executive
Investment Panel has been formed to
review all major new project opportunities.
Conclusion
‘Being Number One’ is as much about
corporate culture as it is about strategy. 
It highlights and focuses on Costain’ s
strengths which will be the building blocks
for the future. Everybody at Costain must
aim to be and supply the best. There
must be a commitment at all times to
premier performance and mediocrity will
not be accepted. This is already part of
the Costain culture and that is why I am
optimistic about the future. All our
stakeholders – who include shareholders,
customers, suppliers, local communities
and employees – are looking to Costain
to maintain the momentum into the future 
as we seek to occupy the Number One
position in everything we do. 
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
20 March 2006
Costain Non-Executive Directors visited the
Company’s St Martin-in-the-Fields project 
in London. Pictured are (left to right) Geoff
Hunt, Costain Project Manager; Saad Shehata, 
Costain Non-Executive Director; The Rt Hon
The Earl of Home, CVO, CBE, Chairman 
of Coutts & Co, (Lord Home is an advisor to the
St Martin-in-the-Fields fundraising campaign);
Dato’ Ahmad Senin, Costain Deputy Chairman;
Azman Sulaiman, Costain Non-Executive
Director and Hugh Player, St Martin-in-the-
Fields Chief Executive.
