 02 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
I am pleased to report that the Company
continued to make good progress in
2005. The year saw a number of major
developments including the appointment
of a new Chief Executive, the successful
restructuring of the balance sheet and 
a record forward order book including
long-term contracts that give the Group
an outstanding quality and visibility of
sustainable earnings.
In September 2005, Andrew Wyllie
formally succeeded Stuart Doughty 
as Chief Executive. Andrew joined 
from T aylor Woodrow Construction
Limited where he was Managing 
Director. We were delighted to have 
found someone of Andrew’ s immense
experience of, and track record in, the
industry. Since joining Costain, Andrew
has completed a strategic review and 
this was recently approved by the Board.
He sets out in detail the key components
of the ‘Being Number One’ strategy in 
his Chief Executive’ s Report.
Following the signiﬁcant water contract
wins of the ﬁrst half, the latter part of the
year also recorded some notable
successes including a major contract 
on the M1 motorway, Costain’ s largest
road project to date, further work on 
the M25 motorway and a nuclear
decommissioning contract. These awards
further reinforced Costain’ s strategy of
targeting sectors where it can establish
leading market positions through
partnering relationships with major clients
and develop long-term framework
agreements.
Results
This is the ﬁrst set of annual results that
the Group is reporting under International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)
which, as previously reported, have no
impact upon the underlying cash ﬂows 
or trading activities of the Group but do
impact on the timing of accounting for
both revenue and proﬁt recognition from
the Group’ s property development
activities in Southern Spain. 
Such revenue can now only be recognised
when risk associated with ownership of the
land is transferred to the purchaser and 
all signiﬁcant acts (such as infrastructure
works) are complete. The impact of 
this change is to defer sales recognised
by the joint venture. As was previously
explained in the announcement published
on 17 August 2005 on the ‘Transfer to
IFRS’, this reduced the Group’ s earnings
for the year ended 31 December 2004 
by £6.4 million. As expected, the majority
of these infrastructure works were
completed in 2005 and the corresponding
proﬁt recognised. 
The results for the year ended 
31 December 2005 show a turnover 
of £773.2 million (2004: £695.2m). 
As expected, the balance of earnings 
for the year was more weighted towards
the second half with a full-year proﬁt
before tax of £25.0 million (2004:
£10.5m). Proﬁt after tax of £23.6 million
(2004: £8.8m) includes a contribution 
of £14.0 million from the Alcaidesa joint
venture and £3.5 million proﬁt on the sale
of half of the Company’ s shareholding in
King’ s College Hospital PFI. Earnings per
share were 6.7p (2004: 2.5p). 
At the year-end, the forward order book
was £1.9 billion (2004: £1.1bn) up 73%,
of which £760 million relates to 2006 and
of which 70% is repeat order business. 
The Group has no signiﬁcant borrowings
and net cash balances at the full-year
totalled £74.0 million (2004: £62.6m),
including the Group’ s share of cash held
by joint arrangements (construction joint
ventures) of £25.0 million (2004: £18.9m). 
The continuing changing proﬁle of the
business into framework/partnered client
relationships will result in a more evenly
balanced cash ﬂow proﬁle going forward.
Pensions
Following discussions with the Trustee of
the Costain Pension Scheme, the Board
agreed that the ﬁnal salary scheme would
Chairman’s
statement
David Jefferies, Costain Chairman (left),
pictured with Andy Wright (Thames Water
Principal Project Manager) and Costain
colleagues. 03 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
be closed to new employees who would
have the opportunity to join a deﬁned
contribution scheme. This change was
effective as of 1 June 2005. In addition,
the ﬁnal salary scheme is being changed
to a Career Average Revalued Earnings
(CARE) scheme with effect from 
1 April 2006. The Company is increasing
its contributions to the Costain Pension
Scheme from 15.6% of pensionable
salaries to 21.6% of pensionable salaries
also with effect from 1 April 2006. 
The active members of the Pension
Scheme are also increasing their
contributions from 8% to 10% from the
same date. These steps have been taken
to help address the deﬁcit on the Group’ s
pension scheme. 
Dividend
In April last year, shareholders approved 
a restructuring of the Group’ s balance
sheet, by way of a reduction of share
capital and cancellation of the share
premium account. Following the
restructuring, the Company’ s distributable
reserves were re-set at nil. As reported
last year, this will allow the Board to
consider, subject to prevailing trading
conditions, a resumption of a ﬁnal
dividend payment in respect of 2006.
As well as prevailing trading conditions, 
a resumption of dividend payments must
also take into account our obligation to
address the deﬁcit on the Group’ s pension
scheme which, as at the year-end, stood
at £69.5 million net of deferred tax.
Following extensive discussions with the
Trustee of the Costain Pension Scheme,
the Board has agreed that a resumption
of dividend payments will be matched
pound for pound by a payment into the
scheme. The Pensions Regulator, having
been approached by the Board, has
agreed the proposal in principle and
formal clearance will be sought at the
appropriate time.
Board
Charles McCole, Finance Director, had
previously notiﬁed the Board that he
wished to pursue new opportunities in 
the future and did not feel able to give a
long-term commitment to the Company.
The Board was therefore pleased to
announce on 6 March 2006 that Anthony
Bickerstaff FCCA, Finance Director of
T aylor Woodrow Construction Limited,
would succeed Charles McCole as
Finance Director at a date to be ﬁnalised
but expected to be not later than June
2006. Charles McCole will remain with the
Company to ensure a smooth handover.
Anthony Bickerstaff has considerable
experience both in the industry and the
ﬁnance arena. He will be an able
successor to Charles McCole, who has
made a signiﬁcant contribution to our
Our forward order
book stands at
record levels but, 
more importantly,
includes secure
work over a 
ﬁve-year term.
+1 38
%
+1 68
%
Proﬁt before tax increased to £25.0 million 
(2004: £10.5m).
Earnings per share 6.7p (2004: 2.5p).
successful recovery and whom we wish
well for the future. 
Outlook
The Group made good progress in 2005.
We are particularly pleased with the
forward order book, which not only
stands at record levels but, more
importantly, includes secure work over 
a ﬁve-year term of which a signiﬁcant
proportion is repeat business.
The current year has started well, with
continuing high levels of customer spend
in our targeted markets. Our ‘Being
Number One’ strategy will see a greater
emphasis on establishing market leading
positions in selected sectors and this,
combined with other actions, will help
ensure that Costain achieves its new
objective of double-digit growth in both
turnover and underlying proﬁtability over
the next three years. 
David G Jefferies
Chairman
20 March 2006
