 34  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Chief Executive’s review
Costain is now established as one of the UK’s premier 
construction and engineering businesses.
Clear strategy 
We have benefited from the continued implementation of our 
‘Being Number One’ strategy that deliberately focuses the 
business on major blue-chip customers. As anticipated, these 
large sophisticated organisations, which include a range of 
public, private and regulated enterprises, are seeking to work 
with fewer contractors on a longer term or partnership basis.
We have targeted market sectors where we believe work will  
be undertaken because of its strategic significance to the 
nation. Consequently, we have been working successfully 
towards developing leading positions in markets such as 
highways, water, waste, energy, health and education.
Our strategic focus and high quality customer base has 
significantly lessened our exposure to sectors particularly 
susceptible to the macroeconomic climate and has allowed  
us to secure a record high quality order book. 
In order to provide even greater emphasis on our customers’ 
needs, we have realigned our operational structure into five 
divisions: Infrastructure, Environment, Oil, Gas & Process, 
Community and Property Development. This will allow us to 
respond quickly to the changing requirements of our customers, 
and ensure that Costain continues to allocate its resources 
effectively towards markets with the greatest potential.
Our brand, corporate values and reputation are hugely 
important to us. They set the standards by which we do 
business and have allowed us to attract quality customers, 
suppliers and people to enable us to achieve our growth. 
Delivering a strong performance 
There have been a number of key achievements during  
the year: 
•  Delivered 17% growth in Group profits and 13% growth  
in revenues 
•  Strengthened the balance sheet and enhanced the net cash 
position to £146.6 million
•  Increased the profits and revenues from our civil engineering 
operations
•  Profit from Oil, Gas & Process operations increased, with net 
margins in excess of 6%
•  Actively traded our PFI portfolio to re-invest in bidding for  
new projects 
•  Reduced our overheads and central costs
•  Made key appointments across our executive team as part  
of our succession planning
•  Secured a record high quality order book of £2.0 billion
“ Our brand, corporate values 
and reputation are hugely 
important to us.”
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive 35  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
•  Paid an interim dividend for the first time in 17 years 
•  Recommended a 50% increase in the total dividend payout 
for the year
However, the Building and Property Development divisions  
are not providing the required level of returns and a number of 
initiatives are in place to improve performance. Further details  
of these are set out in the Business review.
Robust finances
We were successful in achieving our financial objectives  
for the year.
The year end net cash position increased to £146.6 million 
(2007: £132.8 million). The Group has no significant  
borrowings, which is important given the prevailing  
macroeconomic conditions. 
During 2008, banking and contract bonding facilities were 
increased by 42% to £285 million and extended to September 
2011. These facilities provide the headroom needed for us  
to continue to develop the business. 
Record order book
As a direct result of the implementation of our customer  
focused strategy, we have been greatly encouraged by the 
growth in our high quality order book, which increased by 25% 
to a record £2.0 billion at the year end (2007: £1.6 billion).
Despite the more difficult market conditions, we were successful 
in securing over £1.4 billion of quality new orders during the 
year from a range of blue-chip customers. We also ended  
the year with over £1.0 billion preferred bidder positions 
(2007: over £800 million) including preferred contractor for  
the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) on the Greater Manchester 
Waste Disposal Authority’s PFI contract.
Reflecting the strategic focus by Costain on large customers who 
favour the long-term framework or partnership approach, the 
level of repeat business in the order book has increased to 87%.
The year end order book included £777 million for work to be 
carried out in 2009.
During the year, we saw a number of high profile contract wins 
across the business reflecting the breadth of our operations. Of 
particular note was the award by the Highways Agency of their 
Area 7 MAC five-year maintenance contract, the early extension 
of our AMP4 contract at Southern Water into the AMP5 
2010-2015 period, the redevelopment of Felixstowe port for 
Hutchison Port Holdings and the major Riverside waste facility 
for VonRoll. 
These are all examples of work awarded on the basis of 
excellent customer relationships and our growing reputation  
for delivery.
Since the year end, Costain has continued to win a number  
of major contract awards, including Severn Trent AMP5, the 
M53 Bidston Moss viaduct refurbishment and the Port Talbot 
Relief Road. 
The level of tendering and estimating activity remains high 
supporting our belief that our customers remain committed  
to their expenditure plans.
Operations 
Our ability to secure high levels of repeat order business reflects 
our proven track record in delivering projects safely to quality, 
time and budget, often exceeding our customers’ expectations.
Our Civil Engineering operations had an exceptional year, 
increasing profits, revenues, margins and order book. A number 
of projects were completed ahead of schedule generating early 
completion bonuses. Major new contract awards also ensured 
that we have strengthened our position in each of our key target 
market sectors and as a result the order book in the division has 
increased by over 30% in the year. We are well placed to seize 
the opportunities that will be presented by the anticipated future 
investment in major infrastructure and environmental related 
projects; examples include Crossrail, high-speed rail links,  
new nuclear power, waste schemes and airport expansion. 
HRH The Prince of Wales (with Andrew Wyllie, Costain  
Chief Executive (left) and Geoff Hunt, Costain Project 
Manager (centre)) pictured at London’s St Martin-in-the- 
Fields Church in April 2008. The Prince is Patron of the  
St Martin-in-the-Fields Development Trust that commissioned 
the £36 million restoration and renewal project. 36  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Lord Adonis, Minister of State for Transport (fifth  
from right), and Andrew Wyllie, Costain Chief Executive  
(third from right), pictured holding the plaque to 
commemorate the completion of the M27 Improvement 
Schemes. The schemes were completed two months  
ahead of schedule allowing motorists to fully benefit from  
a £36 million scheme to widen 2.5 miles of the motorway  
by providing an additional lane in both directions between 
Junction 3 (M271 to Southampton) and Junction 4  
(M27/M3 Interchange).
Chief Executive’s review 
continued
The Building division’s trading performance was disappointing  
in the year and further actions have been taken to address a 
number of operational issues. This division now accounts for  
just 9% of the order book and we are concentrating on the 
health and education sectors where we expect there to be 
significant spend over the next few years. 
PFI remains a strategically important activity given its 
prominence as a procurement route for major public projects. 
We continued with our policy of trading our PFI equity portfolio 
to reinvest in bidding for new projects and disposed of two 
equity stakes in the year. 
Our Oil, Gas & Process operations made excellent progress 
with increases in profit, revenue and margin. The order book  
is also up and we benefit from specialist expertise in the areas 
of nuclear design, underground gas storage and process 
modularisation. This division is a core part of the Group and  
is well placed to capitalise on the demand for energy related 
projects in the future.
Further progress has been made in closing out the legacy 
projects from our International division. During the year, we 
achieved substantial completion on the Costa Azul project  
in Mexico and the customer has operational use of the facility.  
The results for the year reflect an additional provision for the 
project which is expected to be completed by mid-2009 
following the extension of the project’s scope by the customer. 
Market conditions in Spain remained very difficult as a result  
of the global economic downturn and, as anticipated Alcaidesa, 
our Spanish strategic land development operation in joint 
venture with a subsidiary of Santander Bank, did not complete 
any significant land sales in the year. Construction of the 
800-berth marina is progressing well and is scheduled for 
completion in 2010. There has been a good level of interest  
from potential customers seeking to secure berths. 
There is a more detailed review of each operating division in the 
Business review.
Safety, Health and Environment
The effective management of Safety, Health and Environment 
remains our top priority. 
Further progress was made in the year and we recorded an 
improved Group Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) of 0.17 ,  
once again making us the best performing company in the 
Major Contractors Group (MCG) peer group. 
We received a total of 45 RoSPA safety awards including  
the prestigious Order of Distinction for our Oil, Gas & Process 
operations recognising 15 consecutive annual Gold Awards.  
The consideration we show for the local communities in which 
we work was recognised by the receipt of 11 Awards from the 
Considerate Constructors scheme. 
Southern Water’s £15 million Cross Solent Main project, 
completed over two years by 4Delivery, the joint venture 
between Costain, MWH and United Utilities, won the Major 
Projects Award category at the Institution of Civil Engineers 
Southern Association Construction Awards. The successful 
delivery of this innovative project means that The Isle  
of Wight can now be provided with up to 20 million litres  
of drinking water per day through the new pipeline. 37  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notwithstanding our industry leading safety performance,  
there was a fatal accident on the M25/A2 motorway project. 
This devastating event reinforced the need for continuous 
vigilance and improvement in our safety performance.
As part of our commitment to ensuring the health and welfare  
of our workforce, medical screening was provided to over  
700 employees during the year.
Our efforts to mitigate the environmental and social impacts  
of our operations were rewarded by the receipt of our first  
Silver award following an external assessment by Business  
in the Community.
A series of challenging objectives have been set for 2009,  
which include enhanced performance targets for all activities. 
People
We have achieved our strong business performance by ensuring 
that we employ and retain a highly talented and motivated team 
of people. There was a net increase of over 200 people in the 
business during the year and we have made a significant level  
of investment in training and development at all levels.
A growing business provides plenty of opportunity for our 
people to develop their careers and achieve their full potential. 
Our management development programmes have enabled 
many people to take on new and enhanced responsibilities. 
There were changes of responsibilities and new appointments 
to strengthen the Executive Board, which is the Group’s 
operational Board. These included Alan Kay’s appointment  
in the new role of Chief Operating Officer; Darren James,  
Alex Vaughan and David Jenkins appointments as Managing 
Directors for respectively the new Infrastructure, Community 
and Environment divisions; and the promotion of Tracey Wood  
to HR and Legal Director. 
Our management strength in depth allows us to develop 
succession planning across the whole business.
Supply chain
Progress has been made in further rationalising our supply  
chain as we focus on developing more strategic longer term 
relationships and the number of suppliers used has reduced  
to around 3,000, a sixth of the level on the Group’s database 
three years ago. 
Developing supplier relationships in this mutually beneficial way 
enables us to enhance the service we provide to our customers, 
increase innovation, access the best project teams, improve 
safety and drive out cost from the production process.
We recently hosted an annual supply chain conference  
which was attended by the ‘Top 100’ supply chain partners. 
During the event we set out our objectives, discussed areas  
for collaboration and agreed clear performance targets.
Managing costs
We continue to manage costs robustly and notwithstanding the 
very significant increase in revenue and order book, overhead 
costs in 2008 were held at the same level as the previous year. 
The move to the Group’s new open plan headquarters in 
Maidenhead was successful and has provided the anticipated 
improvements in efficiency and working environment. The 
regional office in Chelmsford has been closed, as it was no 
longer required to support our strategy. 
In addition, we outsourced part of the Group’s IT function and, 
as a result, an enhanced service is provided to the business at  
a lower cost.
Summary
We have achieved a great deal in the last year and delivered  
a strong business performance, despite the very significant 
economic downturn. 
We have a clear strategy, robust finances, a record order book 
and a motivated management team. The Group is benefiting 
from the focus our strategy is bringing to everything we do. We 
are deliberately targeting the key market sectors that we believe 
will be of strategic importance to the nation and that will receive 
significant investment over the next few years. 
No company can be immune from the current uncertain 
environment but Costain is demonstrating resilience in these 
turbulent times. 
We are expecting to deliver further progress in operating 
performance during 2009. We are confident about Costain’s 
future which I look forward to reporting on during the year.
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive
11 March 2009
