 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2011
06 Directors’ Report > Business review 
Chairman’s statement 
We are transforming  
Costain into a broad-based 
Tier One engineering 
solutions provider...
Costain delivered 
another strong 
performance  
in 2011, in line  
with the Board’s 
expectations.
It is particularly pleasing to report a 
substantial increase in operating profit 
and an increase in our order book, the 
result of a deliberate and ongoing focus 
on those UK market sectors where there 
is, and will continue to be, significant 
private and public investment to meet 
critical national needs. 
The year also saw Costain pursuing  
its twin strategic objectives of growing 
by acquisition, as well as organically,  
and broadening its range of services to 
include a greater proportion of support 
service activities as we continued  
to build on our position as a leading  
Tier One engineering solutions provider. 
Revenue, including the Group’s  
share of joint ventures and associates,  
for the year was £986.3 million  
(2010: £1,022.5 million). Our focus  
is on higher margin work and 
consequently, Group operating profit, 
before other items, was £24.1 million 
(2010: £17.4 million), an increase of 38%. 
Profit before tax and other items was 
£25.5 million (2010: £27.9 million), with 
the prior year having benefited from  
a profit of £11.2 million realised on  
the transfer of the Group’s interest  
in a portfolio of six PFI investments  
into The Costain Pension Scheme.
Strategic delivery
Costain secured a number of major, 
nationally strategic contracts during the 
year. A highlight was the award of the 
five-year £400 million contract by Network 
Rail for the redevelopment of London 
Bridge station, notable not just for the 
scale and scope of the contract, but  
also that it was awarded in recognition  
of Costain’s proven ability to manage  
such complex projects on its own. 
As a result, the Group’s year-end order 
book increased to £2.5 billion, including 
over £650 million of work already 
secured for 2012. In excess of 90%  
of our order book is from repeat orders 
and support services activities now 
represent 25% of the work secured  
for 2012. Further contract awards  
and extensions since the year-end  
has increased the level of revenue 
secured for 2012 to over £750 million.
 
Whilst the continuing uncertain macro-
economic environment is impacting the 
UK market as a whole with total volumes 
reduced, procurement periods extended 
and a variation of activity levels across 
regions, our strategy of targeting 
customers with committed long-term 
capital and operational spending plans 
has enabled us to pursue and win work 
less affected by the downturn. Moreover, 
we believe that our target customers will 
continue to commit substantial 
expenditure over the medium to 
long-term, providing Costain with 
significant opportunity to grow. 
To achieve that growth, we must also 
continue to diversify and broaden  
the range of services we offer. Our 
‘Choosing Costain’ strategy was 
developed and is being implemented  
in line with major structural market 
changes as our customers increasingly 
seek suppliers who can offer both an 
innovative cost-effective approach and 
provide a broad, end-to-end service 
across the life-cycle of an asset.  
The ongoing drive, both organically  
and by acquisition, to broaden  
our services across engineering 
consultancy, construction, and 
operations and maintenance will  
remain a key priority in 2012. 
Potential acquisitions must meet  
a range of strict criteria, including 
strategic rationale and shareholder value 
enhancement. During the year, we were 
pleased to announce the acquisitions  
of ClerkMaxwell, a front-end engineering 
and operations support services provider 
operating in the upstream oil and gas 
sector, and Promanex, an industrial 
support services business providing 
facilities management, installation, repair 
and maintenance and general asset 
management. Both companies have 
been successfully integrated, are 
operating in line with our expectations, 
and provide Costain with a broader 
range of services to offer its customers.  07
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial statements Other information Corporate Governance Business review Overview
With a £140 million net cash balance 
and no significant debt and with 
banking and bonding facilities increased 
to £465 million, and extended to 
September 2015, the Group is in a very 
strong position to deliver on its strategy. 
Dividend
Reflecting another successful year 
and our continuing confidence in the 
long-term prospects for the Group, the 
Board is recommending an 8% increase 
in the final dividend, the fifth successive 
year of increase. If the 6.75 pence per 
share (2010: 6.25 pence) final dividend 
is approved at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, then it will be paid 
on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on 
the register as at the close of business 
on 20 April 2012. This would bring the 
total for the full year to 10.0 pence per 
share (2010: 9.25 pence), an increase 
of 8% over the prior year.
Staff
The year would not have been a 
success, nor would we be as confident 
for the future, without the people we 
have at Costain. On behalf of the whole 
Board, I would like to express our 
gratitude to all our colleagues and 
place on record our recognition and 
appreciation of their commitment 
to the business.
Group pension scheme
At the year-end, the Group’s pension 
scheme deficit in accordance with 
IAS 19, net of deferred tax, was 
£39.7 million (2010: £28.9 million), 
the increase is primarily as a result of a 
reduction in the discount rate, based on 
corporate bond yields, used to calculate 
the liabilities. We have in place a deficit 
recovery plan based on the latest 
actuarial position as at 31 March 2010, 
agreed with the Pension Scheme 
Trustee and expected to eliminate 
the deficit over a period of less than 
ten years.
Since the year-end, the Group has made 
a further transfer of two PFI investments 
into the scheme at an agreed value of 
£20.3 million. Furthermore, the Group 
has instigated a liability risk management 
exercise and is in the process of issuing 
Enhanced Transfer Value and Pension 
Increase Exchange offers to the 
members of The Costain Pension 
Scheme. Together, the above actions 
are estimated to reduce the pension 
deficit by approximately £16 million, 
with an associated potential reduction 
in annual deficit contributions, following 
the next triennial actuarial valuation of 
The Costain Pension Scheme which is 
due as at 31 March 2013. Full details 
of these measures are contained 
in the Group Finance Director’s review.
Summary and outlook 
Costain delivered another strong 
performance in 2011, with operating 
profit up substantially and an increased 
order book. 
The Group has been successful in 
targeting those blue-chip customers 
who are spending billions of pounds 
per annum on essential capital projects 
and ongoing maintenance of essential, 
nationally strategic assets. This provides 
a major opportunity to grow the 
business further.
We are transforming Costain into a 
broad-based Tier One engineering 
solutions provider, aligned with structural 
market changes. Winning projects such 
as the complex £400 million London 
Bridge redevelopment is testimony 
to that. Meanwhile, our strong cash 
position, robust balance sheet and 
increased banking and bonding facilities 
provide us with the resources to grow 
the business by acquisition as well 
as organically.
Our confidence in Costain’s future, and 
in achieving our ambition of doubling 
profit over the medium term, is reflected 
in the Board’s recommendation to 
increase the final dividend for the 
fifth successive year.
David Allvey
Chairman
7 March 2012
David Allvey Chairman
