 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2011
10 Directors’ Report > Business review 
The Board continues to believe that, 
over the next decade, such expenditure 
will be primarily in the critical areas of 
transport, energy, water and waste, 
where national needs are being 
addressed. These areas provide a 
strong and sustainable pipeline of future 
investment to ensure energy security, 
the provision of a sustainable water 
supply, and creating key transport 
infrastructure capable of supporting 
vital economic growth.
We are continuing to transform the 
Group through the implementation of 
our ‘Choosing Costain’ strategy and are 
reinforcing our position as one of the 
UK’s top Tier One engineering solutions 
providers, with well-established positions 
in sectors such as highways, water 
and rail.
Our business model
Chief Executive’s review 
Andrew Wyllie outlines the 
successful transformation 
of the business and gives 
the reasons behind a strong 
performance in 2011. 
Alongside this imperative is the reality of 
the global macro-economic environment 
and the impact it is having on the 
prioritisation of spending plans. 
We have, therefore, maintained a focus 
on targeting and working with blue-chip 
customers in sectors whose spending 
activity is underpinned by strategic 
national needs, regulatory commitments 
or essential maintenance requirements. 
Our target customers are spending 
billions of pounds per annum on capital, 
operations and maintenance contracts. 
In its 2011 Autumn Statement, the UK 
Government identified an increase in 
infrastructure investment, and has 
recently announced the go-ahead 
for the second high-speed rail link. 
Notwithstanding this welcome increase 
in commitment from the public sector, 
by far the majority of future spending 
is expected to continue to come 
from the private sector. 
Costain has 
delivered another 
strong performance. 
An increase of 38% 
in operating profit, 
an increase in the 
size of the order 
book and an 
increase in the 
recommended 
final dividend are 
testimony to the 
success of our 
strategy and its 
implementation.
The UK faces unprecedented 
challenges, including the impact of 
a rapidly growing population, climate 
change, and the need to ensure a 
secure, sustainable and balanced 
portfolio of energy sources. An ageing 
and increasingly obsolete infrastructure 
means that there is a clear and 
recognised national need for 
strategic investment. 
Engineering 
solutions to 
meet national 
needs
Focusing 
on the needs 
of major 
blue-chip 
customers
Targeting 
clearly 
defined 
markets
See page 14 See page 14 See page 15 11
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial statements Other information Corporate Governance Business review Overview
We are developing the skills, capabilities 
and service offering necessary to meet 
the changing needs of our major 
customers. They are increasingly 
expecting Tier One suppliers to provide 
broad and bespoke solutions to their 
specific requirements by delivering an 
innovative service across engineering 
consultancy, construction and operations 
and maintenance, through larger and 
longer-term bundled contracts. 
These skills enable us to engineer 
solutions to meet some of the country’s 
most complex and pressing national 
needs. For example, Costain is delivering 
the largest waste PFI project in Europe, 
the largest nuclear decommissioning 
project in the UK and is the leading 
service provider to the Highways Agency.
In addition to the organic development 
of those skills within Costain, for the 
first time in over 20 years, Costain 
augmented the implementation of its 
strategy through the acquisition of two 
businesses, ClerkMaxwell, an upstream 
oil and gas consultancy, and Promanex, 
an industrial support services business. 
Both businesses have been integrated 
successfully and are performing well 
and in line with our expectations.
ClerkMaxwell provides Costain 
with a full hydrocarbons value chain 
capability from upstream oil and gas, 
gas processing, LNG and gas storage 
through to downstream, and provides 
the Group with access to a larger and 
broader customer base in the oil & 
gas sector.
Promanex’s customer base includes 
such blue-chip companies as 
ConocoPhillips, EDF, E.ON, Magnox, 
RWE, Scottish and Southern Energy, 
Siemens and TOTAL, a number of 
which are existing Costain customers.
Consequently, the services we can offer 
to our customers, and the composition of 
our earnings, are being transformed as 
we broaden the business through the 
implementation of our strategy. Currently, 
25% of our 2012 order book now comes 
from support services activities and we 
expect this to continue to grow. 
Core to our transformation and our 
value proposition to customers is our 
‘Costain Cares’ initiative which places 
responsible, effective and collaborative 
stakeholder relationships at the core 
of everything that we do. 
Identified 
strategic
priorities
Our 
‘Choosing 
Costain’ 
strategy
Developing 
our business 
to meet 
our ambition
Operating 
effectively 
and
responsibly
Planned 
investment 
to meet our 
targets to...
...deliver 
shareholder 
value
See page 16 See page 16 See page 17 See page 18 See page 19 See page 19
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive Officer Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2011
12 Directors’ Report > Business review
This ranges from taking a unique  
and innovative approach to finding 
solutions for each individual customer 
requirement, to wider initiatives such as 
our school leavers’ apprentice scheme 
or our participation in an ex-offenders’ 
programme. As well as having a 
beneficial effect on our corporate 
culture, these factors differentiate us 
from our peer group, are an increasingly 
important factor in our stakeholders’ 
selection processes, and have directly 
contributed to the award of our largest 
contracts this year. 
Increased order book providing 
long-term earnings visibility
Costain’s strategy is to focus on 
securing longer term and higher  
margin contracts from major blue-chip 
customers. Whilst this approach  
has led to a decrease in revenue in  
2011, our operating profit and quality  
of earnings have improved significantly.
During the year, we secured new 
contracts and extensions to existing 
contracts of some £1.1 billion and as  
a consequence, the Group finished the 
year with an increased forward order 
book of £2.5 billion (2010: £2.4 billion), 
providing good earnings visibility.  
The order book included in excess of 
£650 million of work secured for 2012 
(December 2010: circa £800 million 
secured for 2011), and over £1.8 billion  
of revenue secured for 2013 and 
beyond. In addition, we again ended  
the year with preferred bidder positions 
on contracts with an aggregate value  
in excess of £400 million. Further 
contract awards and extensions since 
the year-end have increased the level  
of revenue secured for 2012 to over 
£750 million. These include a £60 million 
three-year maintenance contract for  
a new customer in the energy sector,  
a contract we were able to secure  
as a consequence of the skills acquired 
following the purchase of Promanex. 
We are delighted that major customers 
continue to reappoint Costain for their 
investment plans with the result that 
repeat orders now account for in excess 
of 90% of the order book. We were also 
pleased to secure a number of new 
customers during the year with the 
potential for increasing the scope and 
scale of work we do for them. 
The focus on key customers, and the 
provision of value-adding solutions  
to complex challenges, has ensured  
that Costain has maintained a strong 
pipeline of business development 
opportunities. During the year, we 
increased our business development 
and bidding activity to capitalise on 
these opportunities, resulting in an 
increase in the order book. 
Progress in Operations
The Group has three core divisions: 
Environment, Infrastructure and 
Energy & Process.
The Environment division focuses on 
the water and waste markets as well  
as the specific requirements of a number  
of long-term customers. Customer 
spend in this market is underpinned by 
regulatory and legislative requirements 
and is expected to grow over the 
medium and long-term.
Revenue (including share of joint 
ventures and associates) in the 
division for the year was £375.4 million 
(2010: £489.8 million), with profit  
from operations of £17.5 million  
(2010: £17.2 million including profit  
of £11.2 million from the transfer of  
six PFI investments into The Costain 
Pension Scheme). Underlying operating 
profits increased very significantly, 
reflecting strong project delivery 
performance and the successful 
close-out of a number of legacy issues 
well within our allowances. The reduction  
in revenue in this division was fully 
anticipated and is a consequence  
of the strategic decision to withdraw 
from lower margin activities, as well  
as a slower than anticipated start  
to the AMP 5 programme of work.
The division finished the year with  
a forward order book of £0.8 billion  
(2010: £1.2 billion), the reduction 
reflecting the completion of a number  
of historic contracts in the year. With  
our established positions in water and 
waste, and the continued broadening  
of our services portfolio, we look forward 
with confidence to continued progress  
in this division.
The Infrastructure division, which 
incorporates activities in the highways, 
rail and airports sectors, saw a year  
of significantly increased investment  
in business development in order  
to take advantage of a strong pipeline  
of opportunities. 
 
Revenue (including share of joint 
ventures and associates) in the division 
for the year increased to £466.0 million 
(2010: £395.3 million) although adjusted 
profit from operations decreased to 
£10.2 million (2010: £12.2 million).  
This short term decrease reflects the 
costs associated with the higher level  
of bidding activity, which has resulted  
in a 36% increase in the order book  
to £1.5 billion (2010: £1.1 billion), as well 
as the costs of the Promanex acquisition 
and additional costs for the completion 
of a project.
The Energy & Process division 
undertakes work in the hydrocarbons 
and chemicals, nuclear process and 
power sectors.
Revenue (including share of joint 
ventures and associates) in the division 
for the year increased to £143.4 million 
(2010: £136.6 million) with adjusted  
profit from operations of £4.7 million 
(2010: £8.2 million). Profits were 
impacted by increased investment in 
business development, the costs to 
complete the ClerkMaxwell acquisition 
and the additional costs required  
to complete a project in Abu Dhabi.  
The division’s year-end order book  
has increased to £215 million  
(2010: £127 million) and we see  
a number of exciting opportunities  
for further growth in this division.
Chief Executive’s reviewcontinued 13
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial statements Other information Corporate Governance Business review Overview
Our non-core Land Development
activity in Spain, which is a joint venture 
with a subsidiary of Santander Bank, 
continued to be subject to very difficult 
market conditions. Revenue was 
£1.5 million (2010: £0.8 million) and 
the loss after tax was £2.0 million 
(2010 £1.8 million). As anticipated, no 
land sales were completed in the year 
and land development activity has been 
scaled back until the market improves 
and maximum shareholder value can 
be secured for the assets. Our activities 
during the year have been focused 
on our leisure businesses of golf 
courses and our 600-berth yacht 
marina adjacent to Gibraltar. 
Further detail on each operating division 
is contained within the Business review.
Enhancing our Safety, Health and 
Environmental performance
Costain places the highest priority on 
the effective management of Safety, 
Health and Environment. 
Further progress was made in the year 
and we again recorded an improved 
Group Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’) 
reducing from 0.15 to a new record low 
of 0.11, which continues to compare 
favourably with our major Tier One 
peer group. 
We received 22 RoSPA Gold safety 
Awards and two prestigious Orders of 
Distinction recognising 15 consecutive 
annual Gold Awards. 
A significant achievement was an 
external accreditation by the Cambridge 
Centre for Behavioural Studies for our 
in-house Costain Behavioural Safety 
initiative. We are the first company in the 
UK to achieve this accreditation and it is 
a unique differentiator for our industry.
However, despite our continuous 
vigilance and focus on our safety 
performance, there was a fatal accident 
involving an employee of a subcontractor 
on the Newbury Parkway project. Also, 
four Costain employees were killed 
in a fire in an accommodation facility 
in Abu Dhabi. The cause of the fire, 
which was in a facility not owned or 
operated by Costain, is still being 
investigated by the authorities. 
Everyone in Costain extends their 
deepest sympathies to the families 
of those involved.
We received our first Platinum award 
following an external assessment by 
Business in the Community, recognising 
our proactive commitment to mitigating 
the environmental and social impacts 
of our operations. 
Developing our team
A strong business is one that employs 
and retains good and motivated people. 
During the year, we increased our 
training and development programmes 
across the organisation to ensure that 
we continue to have the requisite skills 
and resources. There was a 30% 
increase in the number of training days 
which, through improved efficiency, 
were delivered at a lower total cost 
than in 2010.
There was also an increase in the 
number of apprentices across the Group 
and the introduction of a new graduate 
development programme.
Tracey Wood became Group Company 
Secretary on 1 June 2011, following the 
retirement of Clive Franks after 30 years 
of service with Costain. Tracey continues 
to be responsible for HR and legal 
matters on the Executive Board, whilst 
Fiona Ware has been promoted to 
Group HR Director reporting to Tracey.
Summary 
Costain has delivered another 
strong performance.
The implementation of our ‘Choosing 
Costain’ strategy continues to transform 
the Group, as we develop or acquire 
the skills and capabilities to reinforce 
our position as one of the UK’s leading 
Tier One engineering solutions providers.
Looking ahead, whilst mindful of 
economic conditions, we see significant 
opportunity for the continued successful 
implementation of our strategy which, 
in turn, will lead to the delivery of the 
Board’s ambition of doubling profit 
over the medium-term.
I look forward to reporting on further 
progress during the year.
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
7 March 2012
