 14  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review 
 Chief Executive’s review
Engineering value  
 is our business
Against a backdrop of changing industry dynamics and 
ongoing challenging economic conditions, 2012 was another 
year of progress at Costain.
Our focus on providing innovative and cost effective solutions 
to increasingly complex and large-scale national needs, along 
with our partnership approach, is enabling Costain to build 
new and extend existing long-term relationships with a range 
of major customers. As a result, during the year we secured 
new contracts and extensions of some £900 million and our 
year-end total order book stood at £2.4 billion. 
Reflecting the increasing quality of our customer relationships, 
over 90% of that order book now comprises repeat orders. 
The order book also provides good long-term visibility with 
over £700 million of revenue secured for 2013, and in excess  
of a further £1.7 billion of revenue secured for 2014 and 
beyond. In addition, the Group has maintained a strong 
preferred bidder position of over £400 million. 
Trends & Developments
During the year we saw a continuing trend amongst our major 
customers to consolidate their supply chains, as they seek to 
derive business benefits by working in a much more strategic 
and collaborative manner with a reduced number of preferred 
Tier One service providers who have the ability to deliver the 
entirety of their service needs.
Engineering  
solutions to 
meet national  
needs
1
Focusing on 
the needs of 
major blue-chip 
customers
2
Our market 
focus
3
Our business model
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
Page 18 Page 18 Page 19 Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  15
As a consequence, our customers  
are rapidly changing their procurement 
approach, consolidating a broader range 
of services across consulting, project 
delivery and operations activities into 
larger, longer-term contracts. As 
examples of this trend, in 2012 we were 
appointed by Magnox as one of two 
service providers under a 10-year 
framework contract that now covers  
all ten of their UK nuclear sites, and  
we were appointed by the Oil & Pipelines 
Agency on a 3-year operations and 
maintenance contract that now covers 
the whole of their estate. 
In this changing and competitive 
environment, it is essential that Costain 
is able to demonstrate that it has the 
scale, skills, experience and financial 
strength necessary to secure, and then 
deliver, a strong performance on these 
increasingly large and complex 
contracts. The Costain Group has been 
transformed in recent times to meet  
our customers’ evolving requirements.  
Our progress in recent years, despite 
economic conditions, is a reflection of the 
Group’s strategic focus on meeting the 
complex needs of customers by ensuring 
the Costain provides integrated consulting, 
project delivery and operations and 
maintenance capability.”
David Allvey
Chairman
We now deliver Engineering services 
across the full asset life-cycle, from 
advisory and design to operations  
and maintenance. Developed both 
organically and by acquisition, 29% of 
our revenue in 2012 was derived from 
support service activities.
The provision of an increasing range  
of skills and services, along with the 
recognised capability of our team, our 
acknowledged engineering expertise 
and reputation for reliable safe delivery 
has enabled us to secure large, 
integrated and complex projects: the 
contract from Network Rail for the 
London Bridge Redevelopment, a key 
part of the Thameslink programme; the 
Evaporator D project, one of the largest 
nuclear decommissioning projects in  
the UK, where we are utilising innovative 
modularisation techniques used in our  
oil and gas operations to deliver units  
to site; the Greater Manchester Waste 
project, one of Western Europe’s  
largest waste PFI contracts; and with  
the 	 High w a ys 	 A ge ncy , 	 whose 	 o wn	
assessment rates Costain as a leading 
supply chain partner. 
During the year, we secured our  
first highways technology framework 
contract for the Welsh Government, an 
important contract given the increased 
levels of investment in technology 
expected in the highways sector. We 
also recently secured, in joint venture, 
our first rail electrification contract for 
Network Rail, with electrification forming 
a key part of their £37 billion investment 
programme. 
Costain’s growing in-house ability to 
design, procure and deliver projects  
is being utilised by Centrica for the 
delivery of its gas plant at Easington  
to serve the York field in the North Sea. 
As a result of successful delivery on the 
new plant, we have just been appointed 
by Centrica to develop the Front End 
Engineering design (‘FEED’) for a similar 
project at Barrow. The Aberdeen based 
ClerkMaxwell specialist oil and gas 
FEED consultancy, acquired by Costain 
in 2011, has almost doubled in size since 
acquisition. 
Our 
‘Choosing 
Costain’ 
strategy
4
Strategic 
priorities  
and progress 
in 2012
5
Our business 
divisions  
6
Our business 
architecture 
7
Operating 
effectively and 
responsibly
8
Investing in...
9
Delivering 
shareholder 
value
10
Page 20 Page 20 Page 21 Page 22 Page 23 Page 24 Page 24
“ 16  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review 
 Chief Executive’s review
 continued
‘Engineering Tomorrow’
Engineering excellence runs through  
our DNA and ‘Engineering Tomorrow’  
is the Costain commitment to identifying, 
developing and implementing innovative 
solutions to major national needs. 
Our customers are increasingly looking 
to their preferred supply chain partners 
such as Costain for innovative products 
and services that will shorten lead times, 
enhance the quality of project delivery 
and, above all, provide cost-effective 
solutions. To remain a preferred Tier One 
supplier, we need to stay one step ahead 
of our peer group. 
We have increased our investment  
in Research and Development, and  
have introduced the Costain Start-Up 
initiative to encourage and support 
entrepreneurial members of staff to 
develop their ideas into business 
opportunities. The ‘Mario’ asset 
management tool was one such idea, 
which is now being sold commercially  
to rail and highways customers as an 
addition to Costain’s range of services. 
We are currently undertaking consulting 
projects to develop Plasma Vitrification 
and Graphite Gasification technologies 
as potential solutions for addressing the 
treatment and storage of intermediate 
level nuclear waste. We are also 
undertaking work on behalf of the 
Energy Technology Institute to develop  
a prototype process for carbon capture. 
‘Costain Cares’
One of our competitive advantages is 
the recognition some time ago of the 
increasing importance customers were 
placing 	 on 	 the 	 “ good 	 citiz e n ” 	 cr ede n tials	
of their supply-chain partners. Failure  
to embrace and deliver on what our 
customers regard as vital components 
of corporate and social responsibility 
means non qualification for tender lists. 
We passionately share these values  
and Costain believes that investment  
in corporate social responsibility  
capital is a vital investment in the 
Group’s future success. 
Core to our transformation and our  
value proposition to customers is our 
‘Costain Cares’ programme which 
places responsible, effective and 
collaborative stakeholder relationships  
at the core of everything we do. 
We received a Platinum award from 
Business in the Community, recognising 
our proactive commitment to mitigating 
the environmental and social aspects  
of our operations. 
Costain places the highest priority on the 
e f fe ctiv e 	 manage me n t 	 o f 	 Sa fe t y , 	 He alth	
and Environment. Further progress was 
made in the year and we again recorded 
an improved Group Accident Frequency 
Rate (‘AFR’) reducing from 0.11 to a new 
record low of 0.09, which continues  
to compare favourably with our major 
Tier One peer group. We also received 
19 Gold Awards from RoSPA and  
two prestigious Orders of Distinction. 
Teamwork
The results generated by Costain in 2012 
were delivered by an outstanding team. 
During the year, we increased our 
training and development programmes 
across the organisation so that we have 
the requisite skills and resources. There 
was a further increase in the number  
of apprentices across the Group.
There were also a number of 
adjustments to the senior executive 
team. Mark Rogerson MBE, who joined 
the Group in June from Serco in the  
new role of Chief Development Officer, 
has since been appointed Managing 
Director of the new Natural Resources 
division. Mark has a track record of 
successfully managing and growing 
support service businesses. The 
Infrastructure division will continue to be 
led by Managing Director Darren James.
Alan Kay, previously Managing Director 
of the Environment Division, and who 
recently completed the Advanced 
Manage me n t 	 P r ogramme 	 a t 	 Har v ard	
Business School, was appointed in 
November to the new role of Group 
Technical & Operations Director on the 
Executive Board to drive innovation, 
operational and engineering excellence 
across the Group. 
T im 	 Bo w e n , 	 pr e viously 	 High w a ys	 
Sector Director, was appointed to the 
Executive Board to develop our 
consulting and operations activities  
for major customers in the Middle East.  
The senior management team was 
further strengthened by the appointment 
o f 	 Fiona 	 W ar e 	 as 	 Human 	 Re sour ce s	
Director. 
Engineering value  
 is our business Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  17
A New Structure
One of the strengths of Costain is the 
ability to focus group-wide resources  
to meet specific customer requirements, 
address opportunities and optimise 
returns for the Company as a whole 
irrespective of divisional structure. 
In November, the Group announced the 
formation of the new Natural Resources 
operating division, encompassing the 
W a t e r , 	 Hy dr oc ar bons 	 & 	 Chemicals ,	
Nuclear Process and Waste sectors, 
combining most of the existing Energy  
& Process and Environment Divisions 
and some support service activities 
previously in Infrastructure. This new 
divisional structure will enable the  
Group to align itself more closely with  
its customers’ evolving requirements  
and to combine further its front end 
process engineering, project delivery, 
and operations capability into an 
integrated service for customers.
The Natural Resources division will 
operate alongside the Infrastructure 
division which will now also include all 
power activities as well as the Group’s 
activities in the highways, rail, and airports 
sectors. The new divisional structure 
took effect from 1 January 2013.
The Future
Costain has delivered another strong 
performance and demonstrated again 
that it has the right strategy to drive 
profitable growth even through the most 
challenging of economic conditions.
We entered 2013, having already 
secured over £700 million of work for  
the year and we continue to benefit  
from a strong pipeline and high levels  
of tendering activity. 
Looking forward, we expect the rate  
of change in Costain to accelerate as  
we take further steps to broaden our 
services and enhance our product 
range. We believe that we will continue 
to be successful by further increasing 
the agility of the business to react to 
customer’s changing requirements and 
by driving innovation and new technology 
across all of our operations in line  
with our commitment to ‘Engineering 
Tomorrow’.
I look forward to reporting on further 
progress during the year.
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
6 March 2013
