 04  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview 
2012 highlights
continued
Focused on  
 o ur re sponsibili tie s
Platinum status
Costain’s commitment to being a 
responsible business was underlined  
by the retention of Platinum status in 
Business in the Community’s (‘BITC’s’) 
2012 Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) 
Index. 
“I 	 congra tula t e 	 Costain 	 on 	 achie ving	
Platinum in the 2012 BITC Corporate 
Responsibility Index. The CR Index has 
helped to highlight clearly those best 
practice examples that bring to life in a 
powerful way what integrated responsible 
practice really looks like. As we celebrate 
ten years of our CR Index it has given 
me great pleasure to witness each 
company’s responsible business journey 
and the transformations they are making 
both within their businesses and the 
impact they have in our communities.”
Stephen Howard
Chief Executive
Business in the Community
Environmental and social highlights
£1 71,142
Donated to charitable causes in 2012, including 
£22,000 to Great Ormond Street Hospital
C o sta i n ’ s 	 S a ra h 	 B a r t o n , 	 L is a 	 B ra v e r y 	 a n d 	 M a r tin 	 H u nt e r 	 p re s e nt e d 	 a 	 c h e q u e 	 t o	 
G re at 	 O r m o n d 	 S tre et 	 H o s p i ta l ’ s 	 C h r istin a 	 P a n a y i o t o u 	 ( s e c o n d 	 f ro m 	 r i g ht ) .
38
RoSPA Awards
Cos t ain ’ s 	 Health 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 per f ormance	
was recognised by the achievement  
o f 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 A w ards . 	 T he	 
Group received 38 RoSPA Awards, 
including two Orders of Distinction,  
one President’s Award, five Gold Medals  
and 19 Gold Awards.
27% 
Reduction in measured 
carbon emissions over 
the last four years
Costain donated over £22,000 to Great 
O rmond 	 Str e e t 	 Hospital ’ s 	 ‘ Raising 	 the	
Roof’ appeal, which will go towards 
upgrading the hospital’s world-renowned 
neuroscience centre.
Earlier this year, Costain instigated an 
enhanced transfer value offer and  
a pension increase exchange offer  
to members of The Costain Pension 
Scheme. This aimed to offer scheme 
members greater choice and flexibility 
regarding their pension entitlement and 
gave Costain the opportunity to reduce 
the overall pension liabilities and risk 
remaining within the scheme.
Costain considered it important that all 
members fully understood the offer and 
that they sought financial advice. The 
Company decided to make a donation 
o f 	 £ 1 0 	 t o 	 G r e a t 	 O r mond 	 Str e e t 	 Hospital	
for each member who contacted the 
appointed independent financial adviser, 
Oval Financial Services Limited. During 
the offer period, 2,246 members 
contacted Oval, generating a donation  
of over £22,000.
93% 
Waste diverted from 
landfill Financial statements Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  05
Costain receives 
accreditation for 
carbon footprint
Costain has received independent 
accreditation for reducing its carbon 
footprint, following an external audit by 
Achilles to the Certified Emissions 
Measurement and Reduction Scheme 
(‘CEMARS’).
Accreditation to CEMARS means 
Costain’s commitment over the last 
three years to accurately report and 
reduce its carbon emissions has been 
officially recognised. The CEMARS 
standard includes a yearly review to 
ensure the Company continues to meet 
its reduction goals.
Costain’s target is to achieve a 55% 
reduction in emission intensity by 2020 
against a 2009 baseline, by actively 
engaging with its employees, customers 
and supply chain. 
CEEQUAL award for 
Crossrail project
In October, the C330 Royal Oak Portal 
contract in west London, for which a 
Costain Skanska joint venture (‘CSJV’) 
was the contractor, won Crossrail’s  
first ‘Whole Project Award’ under the 
Civil Engineering Environmental  
Quality Assessment and Award Scheme 
(‘CEEQUAL ’).
CEEQUAL is the assessment and award 
scheme for improving sustainability in 
civil engineering and the public realm.  
It aims to demonstrate the commitment 
of the civil engineering industry to 
environmental quality and social 
performance.
CSJV Project Manager Dr Vicknayson 
Thevendran said examples of 
sustainability on the project included 
recycling aggregates for temporary and 
permanent works, using rainwater for 
the wheel-wash for vehicles leaving the 
site, and installing solar panels to power 
monitoring equipment. 
Costain launches supply chain academy
Costain Annual Report wins Investor  
Relations Society Award
In November, Costain was recognised  
at a prestigious investor relations award 
ceremony in London for its 2011 Annual 
Report.
Costain won the ‘Most Effective Overall 
Annual Report (Printed and Online) 
Award’, in the SmallCap & AIM category 
at the Investor Relations Society’s  
(‘IRSs’) Best Practice Awards held at  
The Pavilion, Tower of London, on  
20 November.
Now in their 12th year, the IRS Best 
Practice Awards recognise and reward 
best practice in investor communications, 
both online and in print.
The awards, which were attended by 
approximately 450 people from across 
the investor relations and corporate 
communications industry, were compered 
and presented by former Conservative 
cabinet minister Michael Portillo.
The IRS is the professional body for 
those involved in investor relations and  
is the focal point for investor relations in 
the UK.
The awards’ winners are determined 
through a robust, three-part review 
process. All entries are reviewed and 
scored against a checklist, based on the 
IRS’s best practice guidelines and the 
specific criteria for each award, set out  
in the awards entry form.
Commenting on the award, the judges 
said : 	 “ Costain 	 G r oup 	 pr e se n t ed 	 a 	 cle ar	
and easy-to-navigate report with the 
Remuneration Committee content being 
a particular feature.”
Investor relations is a strategic 
management function that incorporates 
finance, communication, marketing  
and strict compliance with Stock 
Exchange listing rules to enable the 
most effective two-way communication 
between a company, its shareholders 
and stakeholders, and the financial 
community.
Costain started to integrate its financial 
and corporate responsibility reporting 
into its Annual Report five years ago.
This allowed shareholders and other 
stakeholders to better gauge how the 
company performed financially and, 
through the successful implementation 
of the Costain Cares initiative launched 
in May 2011, to see how it conducted  
its business in the communities in which 
it operated.
In September, Costain officially opened 
its supply chain academy, a new  
initiative that aims to support and 
develop small to medium-sized 
enterprises.
The Company welcomed 15 suppliers 
on 3 September 2012 to attend the first 
of 19 modules covering business 
administration, commercial and financial 
be st 	 practice , 	 insurance , 	 He alth 	 and	
Safety, behavioural safety and quality.
The academy has been launched to 
align the Company’s supply chain 
partners with the high standard of 
training and development adopted 
across the Group. 
