 06  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
 C hairm a n ’ s s ta t e m en t
Delivering  
 e x c e l l e nt r es u l ts
Overview & Strategic Update
Costain has delivered another strong performance.
As a result of the implementation of our ‘Choosing Costain’ 
strategy, the Group is one of the UK’s leading engineering 
solutions providers, delivering integrated consulting, project 
delivery and operations and maintenance services to major 
blue-chip customers in targeted market sectors. 
Our success is the direct result of our focus on major 
customers who are continuing to invest billions of pounds  
in capital, operations and maintenance contracts to address 
essential national infrastructure requirements across the 
transport, energy, water and waste sectors.
During 2012, we increased the proportion of revenues from 
support service related activities to 29%. To meet the 
demands of major customers for an increasingly integrated 
service, we must continue to enhance and broaden the  
range of services we offer. The ongoing drive to develop  
our services particularly across engineering consultancy, and 
operations and maintenance will remain a key priority in 2013. 
The spending plans of our customers provide a major 
opportunity to grow the business further. With a strong  
cash position, robust balance sheet and banking and bonding 
facilities in place, we have the resources to continue to grow 
the business organically and by acquisition.
Performance
Revenue, including the Group’s share of joint ventures  
and associates, for the year was £934.5 million  
(2011: £986.3 million). Our focus on higher margin activities  
led to an increase of 4% in Group underlying operating profit  
of £25.1 million (2011: £24.1 million). Adjusted profit before  
tax increased by 16% to £29.5 million (2011: £25.5 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share were up 33% to 41.4 pence 
(2011: 31.1 pence), reflecting increased profits and a 
non-recurring tax timing benefit. 
As a result of the Group’s ongoing strategic focus on major 
blue chip customers who increasingly utilise a target cost 
based form of contract, our net cash position includes  
a lower level of advanced payments typically paid on lump 
sum contracts. Additionally, our increasing emphasis on 
support service related activities and changing industry cash 
flow trends, together with the cash flow timing implication  
of a delayed contract completion, accounted for the reduction 
in net cash to £105.7 million (2011: £140.1 million). We expect 
these trends will continue to be reflected in a lower average  
net cash position.
David Allvey
Chairman Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  07
The Group has flexible financing in place 
with total banking and bonding facilities 
of £465 million with a maturity date of  
30 September 2015.
We were successful in securing  
a number of major new contract awards 
and extensions to existing contracts. 
Consequently, the order book, as at  
31 December 2012, was £2.4 billion 
(2011: £2.5 billion). We have increased  
to over £700 million the revenue secured 
for 2013 (2011: over £650 million secured 
for 2012) and it is encouraging to have 
started the new financial year with such 
long-term visibility.
Dividend
Reflecting another successful year  
and our continuing confidence in the 
long-term prospects for the Group, the 
Board is recommending a 7.4% increase 
in the final dividend, the sixth successive 
year of increase. If approved, the  
7.25 pence per share (2011: 6.75 pence) 
final dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013  
to shareholders on the register as at  
the close of business on 19 April 2013. 
This would bring the total dividend for 
the full year to 10.75 pence per share  
(2011: 10.00 pence), an increase of  
7.5% over the prior year.
Board & Staff
The Board was pleased to announce  
the appointment of Jane Lodge as  
a Non-Executive Director with effect 
from 1 August 2012. Jane has also been 
appointed Chair of the Audit Committee, 
succeeding James Morley who became 
Senior Independent Director. James 
succeeded John Bryant who retired 
from the Board at the end of 2012 after 
nearly 11 years as a Board member.  
We would like to thank John for his 
considerable contribution over that time. 
There were a number of operational 
management changes and these are 
covered in the Chief Executive’s Review.
On behalf of the whole Board, I would 
like to place on record our recognition 
and appreciation of the excellent 
colleagues we have at Costain who 
continue to play a major role in our 
success. 
Group Pension Scheme
The deficit on the Group’s legacy 
Costain Pension Scheme (‘CPS’) at  
31 December 2012 was £40.0 million  
net of deferred tax (2011: £39.7 million). 
The assumptions and sensitivities used 
in the valuation of the pension scheme 
are set out in the notes to the financial 
statements.
Costain has in place a deficit recovery 
plan based on the latest actuarial 
position as at 31 March 2010, agreed 
with the Pension Scheme Trustee, 
expected to eliminate the deficit over  
a period of less than ten years and 
continues to take various decisive 
actions in that regard. Additionally,  
in February 2012, the Group announced 
two further actions being taken to 
manage the obligations in the CPS 
(further detail is provided within the 
Financial Review). In accordance with 
the requirement for a tri-ennial review, 
another full actuarial valuation of the CPS 
will be carried out as at 31 March 2013.
Summary & Outlook 
Costain has delivered another strong 
performance in 2012, and our confidence 
in the Group’s future is reflected in the 
Board’s recommendation to increase  
the final dividend for the sixth successive 
year.
Costain has delivered another 
strong performance in 2012, 
and our confidence in the 
Group’s future is reflected in 
the Board’s recommendation 
to increase the final dividend 
for the sixth successive year.”
Our progress in recent years, despite 
challenging economic conditions, is  
a reflection of the Group’s strategic  
focus on meeting the complex needs  
of customers by ensuring that Costain 
provides integrated consulting, project 
delivery and operations and 
maintenance capability. 
The Group believes that, driven by 
innovation, the strategic development  
of the business will be accelerated as  
we work with customers on their future 
programmes. 
With a robust balance sheet, positive net 
cash position and banking and bonding 
facilities in place, we have the resources 
to continue to grow the business 
organically and by acquisition.
David Allvey
Chairman
6 March 2013
“
