 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2014
12 Strategic report: Chairman’s statement
David Allvey, Chairman
Chairman’s  
statement
I am delighted to report that Costain had another year of strong performance 
and made further progress in its corporate development.
Delivering growth
The rigorous implementation of our ‘Engineering Tomorrow’ 
strategy has delivered increases in revenue, underlying 
operating profit and a record forward order book which 
now stands at £3.5 billion.
Across the business we have continued to create and deliver 
innovative solutions to help address critical national needs in 
energy, water and transportation.
We successfully completed a capital raise of £70.3 million 
(net of expenses) to enable the business to take greater 
advantage of opportunities in its chosen markets and 
thereby accelerate the Group’s medium and long-term 
growth prospects.
Dividend
At the time of the capital raise, the Group confirmed that 
it intended to continue with a progressive dividend policy, 
targeting an ongoing dividend cover of around two times 
underlying earnings.
Our performance and confidence in the long-term prospects 
for the Group has resulted in the Board recommending a final 
dividend of 6.25 pence per share on the capital base enlarged 
by the capital raise completed in March (2013: 7.75 pence per 
share). On a pro forma basis, allowing for the issue of new 
shares in connection with the capital raise, this represents an 
increase of approximately 25% in the total amount of dividend 
paid to shareholders compared with the total dividend for 2013.
Governance
As Chairman, my priority is to ensure the effectiveness of the 
Board and, once again, we made good progress in delivering 
against our objectives. During the year, an externally facilitated 
evaluation of Board performance was conducted and actions 
were agreed to further improve the effectiveness of the Board.
In 2014, we welcomed two new independent Directors to 
the Board. Alison Wood joined Costain as a Non-Executive 
Director in February, succeeding Mike Alexander as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee when he retired from the Board in 
March. We were also pleased to announce the appointment of 
David McManus as a Non-Executive Director in May.
Corporate citizenship
We have an outstanding team at Costain, one that takes its role 
in society and its corporate responsibility very seriously.
In 2015, Costain is celebrating its 150th anniversary and, 
to help mark this special occasion, we are undertaking the 
Costain 150 Challenge, which will change many people’s lives 
by raising £1 million for the Costain Charitable Foundation’s 
four chosen charities: British Heart Foundation, Macmillan 
Cancer Support, The Prince’s Trust and Samaritans. A number 
of fundraising events are taking place across the business. 
Outlook
We have delivered another strong performance, with increases 
in revenue and underlying operating profit and an enhanced net 
cash position.
Costain has an established reputation for innovative 
multi-disciplined services that enables the Group to win large, 
long-term contracts addressing the UK’s national needs in 
energy, water and transportation. 
This strong market position and the additional capital secured 
during the year is enabling the Group to accelerate its growth, 
as demonstrated by a record order book of £3.5 billion.
David Allvey
Chairman 
02 March 2015
Go to page 45 for more
