 Strategic report 02 – 44 Governance 45 – 82 Financial statements and other information 83 – 132
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2014
Andrew Wyllie, CBE, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s  
review
This has been another good year for Costain, the engineering 
solutions provider.
Through our unique and focused ‘Engineering Tomorrow’ 
strategy we have successfully positioned the business 
to provide the range of innovative integrated services 
demanded by our customers to meet critical national needs 
in energy, water and transportation. 
During the year, we added to our skills and breadth of 
capability, developed our market proposition through 
the introduction of new technologies and ensured that 
we consistently delivered on the commitments given to 
our customers.
Our capability was further enhanced in March when we 
successfully completed a capital raise of £70.3 million 
(net of expenses). 
The proceeds are being utilised for a number of purposes 
including: ensuring the requisite financial capacity to 
support anticipated further increases in contract size and 
duration; investing in innovation and technology; financing 
bid costs; and, providing flexibility to make selected in-fill 
acquisitions to complement Costain’s existing capabilities 
as opportunities arise.
Market trends and developments
There is growing consensus across the political spectrum 
of the explicit link between investment in a 21st century 
infrastructure and the creation of sustainable economic 
growth and global competitiveness. 
The UK Government’s 2014 National Infrastructure Plan 
has set out an overall investment of over £320 billion to 
2020-21 in an identified pipeline of projects in the UK, 
including a further £15 billion announced in December 2014 
on road infrastructure. 
The UK market is further defined by significant and long-term 
planned expenditure programmes underpinned by committed 
regulated spend and essential capital investment. With the 
majority of this total investment expected to continue to 
come from the private sector, the opportunities in our markets 
are substantial.
At the same time, and as we anticipated, the changing nature 
and increasing complexity of the requirements of the major 
customers in these markets continues to change fundamentally 
the way in which they procure services and work with their 
supplier partners.
These trends have created a rapidly changing and dynamic 
market environment in which further consolidation has taken 
place and is expected to continue.
Unique ‘Engineering Tomorrow’ strategy
We have been successfully implementing our unique and 
evolving ‘Engineering Tomorrow’ strategy for a number of 
years. Our target customers are large organisations that need 
solutions to their complex business requirements.
We are a trusted delivery partner that collaborates strategically 
at all levels with our customers. We use our detailed customer 
understanding to create and deliver innovative engineering and 
technology-led solutions. 
We win by developing insightful and trusted relationships 
with our customers, enabling a better understanding of their 
needs and allowing us to identify, create and deliver the best 
solution. Our strategy is profitable because our customers value 
our long-term commitment to the relationships and trust us to 
address their challenges in a collaborative and innovative way.
Go to page 26 for more
13 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2014
14 Strategic report: Chief Executive’s review
We sustain our competitive advantage by delivering on our 
promises and staying ahead using our customer insight to 
constantly improve our proposition.
Our major customers, who are spending and will continue to 
spend billions of pounds in meeting national infrastructure 
needs, are consolidating their supply chains as they seek to 
derive business benefits by working in a more strategic and 
collaborative manner with a reduced number of preferred Tier 
One providers through larger longer-term contracts. To be 
successful in the future we must continue to grow the business, 
both organically and by targeted acquisition, to ensure that we 
have the scale and capability to satisfy the full range of their 
service needs for increasingly complex and large-scale projects. 
Innovation driving value
Engineering, technology and innovation are in the DNA 
at Costain.
We recognise that no customer will buy the same product, 
with the same attributes at the same price point year after 
year. It is therefore essential that we continuously improve the 
products and services that we provide and enhance value for 
our customers.
Our ability to develop and offer innovative solutions – often 
ones which our customers have not previously considered – is 
a fundamental differentiator. It drives our ability to secure very 
high levels of repeat business with major customers who regard 
Costain as a long-term partner in the development, delivery and 
optimal operation of their assets.
Our contracts now involve a significant amount of collaboration 
amongst the supply chain, our partners and external 
stakeholders, such as researchers and universities, utilising 
the latest information-sharing software and technology.
We have research and development relationships established 
with eight leading universities and have continued to progress 
a number of patent applications. We also moved 400 people 
into our new engineering centre in Manchester.
Chief Executive’s  
review
continued
£28.7m
£m
0
2011
24.1
2012
24.5
2013
27.4
2014
28.7
5
10
15
20
25
30
 
Underlying operating proﬁt Strategic report 02 – 44 Governance 45 – 82 Financial statements and other information 83 – 132
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2014
£3.5bn
record forward order book 
Innovations, in collaboration with partners, which have added 
value to our customers’ businesses this year, include:
• Use of the Costain ‘WeCARE’ system for predictable 
pre-planned and cost-effective Technology Asset 
Maintenance using data analytics;
• Creation of 3-D models utilising 3-D printing technologies 
to articulate complex engineering solutions;
• Application of manufacturing assembly best practice 
to achieve significantly accelerated project delivery and 
cost savings.
Good operating results and strong cash 
position
Revenue, including the Group’s share of joint ventures 
and associates, for the year increased to £1,122.5 million 
(2013: £960.0 million), circa 30% of which was derived from 
support service related activities. 
Group underlying operating profit increased to £28.7 million 
(2013: £27.4 million).
Adjusted profit before tax was £28.5 million 
(2013: £31.0 million); the reduction is due to the significant 
profit generated in 2013 on the sale of the Group’s minority 
shareholdings in three joint ventures. Adjusted basic earnings 
per share was 27.8 pence (2013: 41.0 pence), the lower level 
also reflecting the enlarged capital base following the capital 
raise completed in March 2014. 
The Infrastructure division had an excellent year with increases 
in revenue, operating profit and order book. The Natural 
Resources division delivered an operating profit excluding 
the impact of a provision associated with the legacy Greater 
Manchester Waste PFI contract awarded in 2007, as detailed 
in the Divisional review.
The Group’s net cash position at 31 December 2014 was 
£148.5 million (2013: £57.7 million). The increase in the net cash 
position reflects the successful £70.3 million (net of expenses) 
capital raise in March, and benefitted from the timing of positive 
contract cash flows at the period end. As previously highlighted, 
the Group’s net cash position has changed as we continue to 
increase our workload with major customers who utilise lower-
risk target-cost, cost-reimbursable contracts. The average 
month-end net cash was £95.6 million (2013: £50.7 million) and 
we anticipate small increases from this level going forward.
Record order book
The ability to provide and integrate a wide range of 
multidisciplined skills and services, along with our strong market 
position and reputation for innovation, has enabled us to secure 
over £1.5 billion worth of large and complex projects and 
contract extensions during the course of the year which include:
• the delivery of Network Rail’s National 
Electrification Programme;
• appointment to the Highways Agency’s Collaborative 
Delivery Framework;
• a position on three transmission frameworks for National Grid;
• a framework contract with BAE Systems for their submarine 
site redevelopment programme;
• appointment by Southern Water for their AMP6 
investment programme;
• the delivery of EPC services for the upgrade of the Dimlington 
gas terminal for Perenco.
Consequently, the Group’s order book has further increased, 
finishing the year at a new record level of £3.5 billion 
(31 December 2013: £3.0 billion).
As well as including over £1.0 billion of revenues secured for 
2015 (as at 31 December 2013: over £750 million secured for 
2014), the order book also provides good long-term visibility 
with £2.5 billion of revenues secured for 2016 and beyond.
15 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2014
16 Strategic report: Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s  
review
continued
The increasingly strategic nature of Costain’s long-term 
customer relationships has ensured that over 90% of the order 
book comprises repeat business and, given the complexity 
of the customer’s requirements, over 90% is in a target cost, 
cost reimbursable, collaborative forms of contract providing 
good long-term earnings visibility. The Group also has a strong 
preferred bidder position increased to over £500 million.
Such a level of secured work gives us good reason to look to the 
future with confidence, especially as the level of active tendering 
across all our target markets remains high. 
The Group’s tender success rate is now better than one 
in three of all opportunities pursued, a win-rate that has 
improved significantly as a consequence of the implementation 
of our strategy to focus on the needs of major customers. 
These customers are increasingly procuring contracts on a 
larger and longer-term basis, reflected in the fact that over 70% 
of the Group’s order book is for contracts or frameworks with a 
remaining value in excess of £100 million. The average life of a 
contract in the Group has increased considerably in the last few 
years and is now over four years in duration.
‘Costain Cares’
Our customers continue to place great emphasis on the 
‘good citizen’ credentials of their supply chain partners. 
Given the profile of their businesses and the nature of the 
activities we undertake, how we deliver our services is as 
important to them as what we do. Increasingly, customers 
insist that their Tier One providers share their corporate and 
social responsibility values and failure to embrace this means 
non-qualification for tender lists.
The management of Health and Safety is a core value at Costain. 
We place a priority on the management of Safety, Health and 
Environment, and the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
improved to 0.10 (2013: 0.12), which compares favourably with 
our peer group. We also received 17 Gold Awards from RoSPA, 
seven Gold Medals and a prestigious Order of Distinction. 
Notwithstanding the improved performance, and in view of the 
prosecution and fine for Health and Safety breaches following 
the death in 2011 of a subcontract worker at a site in Newbury, 
we recognise that there is still more we must do to achieve our 
objective of zero accidents.
Our ‘Costain Cares’ programme places responsible, effective 
and collaborative stakeholder relationships at the core of 
everything we do. It is a central part of our value proposition to 
customers and has a direct impact on the size and quality of our 
order book.
In the year, we retained our Platinum status in the Business in 
the Community index, recognising our proactive commitment to 
the environmental and social aspects of our operations.
Costain further improved its position in the annual assessment 
by Management Today magazine of Britain’s Most Admired 
Companies, ranking 52nd overall, up from 55th the 
previous year.
Teamwork
We adopt a ‘One Costain’ philosophy across the Group, and 
that is evident in the way in which our team of over 3,500 people 
work together to deliver an outstanding service to customers 
and deliver strong business performance. 
We have continued to develop and enhance skills across 
the business and there are currently 179 graduates and 
80 apprentices on our structured development programmes.
During the year, David Taylor was appointed to the Executive 
Board as Group Commercial Director, replacing Patrick Bruce 
who is retiring from the Group in March 2015 after over 40 years 
of service.
Outlook
We have delivered a strong performance, and successfully 
completed a capital raising to enable the Group to accelerate its 
growth. We are excited by the many opportunities that lie ahead 
and, with an outstanding team and record order book, we look 
forward to reporting on further progress in 2015.
Andrew Wyllie CBE
Chief Executive
02 March 2015
