 I am delighted to report a year of tremendous progress for Country
& Metropolitan. 
Turnover was up by 67% to £32.3m with pre-tax profits before
amortisation of goodwill up by 81% to £3.99m. 
At the corporate level, highlights included the sale of our stake in
Tay Homes Plc for a profit of £1.1m and the acquisition of
NorthCountry Homes Group Ltd for a maximum consideration of
£14.5m (excluding costs), part of which was funded by the issue of
2,250,000 new shares in Country & Metropolitan. 
NorthCountry Homes was founded by Jolyon Harrison, the current
Managing Director and is a market leader in the provision of low
cost homes for sale in the North of England via five trading
subsidiaries. It completed 630 homes up to 30th June 2002 and
further volume growth is expected in the current year. 
NorthCountry has a land bank of 1,550 building plots owned with
planning permission and has secured substantial further land on
which it is seeking consent.
As widely reported in the press, there are concerns about the
housing market being overheated and it is true that the overall
house price inflation that has been seen over the last few years
cannot be sustainable for much longer. Particularly as the first time
buyers have been priced out of the market in large parts of the
South East of England and other "Hot Spots" around the country. 
As one of the smaller companies in the quoted sector, we are able to
adapt quickly to changing market conditions and having acquired
NorthCountry, I intend to refocus a large part of the existing Country &
Metropolitan business into the "Affordable Sector", particularly in the
South East, where we have some exciting new initiatives underway. 
Our current forward order book for the enlarged group is very
strong with forward sales of £44.1m. We have a wide geographic
spread and are currently building on 29 developments with homes
priced from £50,000 to £2m. 
I am pleased to report that in line with government guidance
approximately 70% of our developments are now on Brownfield sites.
The planning system in this country has now become a complete
farce with enormous delays and illogical decisions becoming
common place. It appears obvious that the government has little
understanding of what is going on at a local level with the difficulty
in obtaining consents forcing house prices higher due to lack of
supply coming through. 
However, despite the continued irritation of planning, our highly
skilled land teams are unearthing an exciting stream of new
opportunities for the Group, which should stand us in good stead
for the future. 
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive
28 November 2002
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Country & Metropolitan PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002
“As one of the smaller companies in the quoted sector, we are able to adapt
quickly to changing market conditions. We have an exciting, well positioned
development portfolio, with a particular focus on affordability.”
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive ‘Blue’ Granary Wharf, Leeds City Centre
(Architect’s Computer Generated Image)
A landmark development of 61 contemporary waterside apartments,
penthouses and duplexes situated on the banks of the River Ayr and Leeds
Canal Basin adjoining Leeds City Centre station. The development commenced
in November 2002 with completion expected in Summer 2004.
