 Country & Metropolitan has achieved another set of outstanding
results in a year in which it made a significant profit on the sale of
its investment in Tay Homes PLC and during which it completed the
acquisition of NorthCountry Homes Group Limited.
Results and dividend
During the year ended 31 August 2002 the Group made pre-tax
profits before amortisation of goodwill of £3.99m, an increase of
81% over the previous year’s result of £2.21m. This included a
profit of £1.1m from the sale of our investment in Tay Homes PLC.
Operating profit before amortisation of goodwill increased by 37%
to £5.1m (2001: £3.7m) and basic earnings per share before
amortisation of goodwill increased by 34% to 16.56p per share
compared to 12.35p in the previous period. I am pleased to report
that the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.14p (2001:
1.7p) per share bringing the total for the year to 2.75p, an
increase of 22% over the previous period in line with the
progressive dividend policy maintained since flotation. The final
dividend will be paid on 7 April 2003 to shareholders on the
register on 7 March 2003.
Net asset value per share has increased to 102.7p per share (2001:
86.4p) representing shareholders’ funds of £19.4m (2001: £14.4m).
These results demonstrate the Group’s ability to grow organically
and create further shareholder value by acquisition, identifying and
building strategic stakes in undervalued companies in the sector.
Operating review
The Southern Region’s programme included the sale of five houses,
with prices in excess of £950,000, prior to the year end and it has
contracted the sale of a property under construction for £2m. It
has two further properties under construction in this range for
which demand is expected to be strong. The Board is now taking a
more cautious view of developing properties in this price range,
with the emphasis now being placed on the more affordable end
of the market.  
The Region has however, purchased what we believe to be one of
the most prime sites in London, opposite Hampton Court, with a
direct frontage to the River Thames. By purchasing the land
unconditionally an extremely attractive price was agreed. We are
now well advanced with an agreement with Railtrack, regarding a
comprehensive development of our land and the adjoining land 
of Hampton Court Station, where we envisage a major mixed 
use development.
The final phase of 10 detached houses at Rissington is well
advanced with only two units remaining for sale. The annual rental
stream from the Business Park at Rissington has increased
significantly and now stands at £695,000 per annum. Although the
claim by the Ministry of Defence for additional consideration of
£820,000 by way of overage was lost, we are still confident of
obtaining a significant allocation for further residential development
on the remaining 70 acres.
The North and North West Regions have experienced good progress
with no properties in stock at the year end. They have strong
forward reservations on developments under construction and are
actively promoting a number of sites through the planning system.  
Chairman’s Statement
2 Country & Metropolitan PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002
“The enlarged Group now has a diverse product range and a wide geographical
spread. Demand for our product in the current economic climate remains strong
as demonstrated by the strong forward order book.”
David Laing
Chairman Country & Metropolitan PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 3
We have now secured a resolution to grant planning consent on
the 140 acre site at the former Poole Hospital in Middlesborough to
develop 94 residential units, including the conversion of a
magnificent Grade II* Listed Mansion into 12 apartments.  
A prime site has been acquired in Leeds City Centre, for a waterside
development of 61 units. The development is expected to
commence before the end of 2002. This scheme will have a
completed value in excess of £12m. The current forward sales and
completions since the year end for Country & Metropolitan group
(excluding NorthCountry) is £15.4m.
The major difficulty we are experiencing is in obtaining planning
permissions. Politicians have now created a planning system which
is so complex that too few new homes are being built. This
serious shortage of supply is driving up prices, causing tremendous
frustration in the house building community who are prevented
from "getting on with the job". I cannot think of any other
business sector that suffers so much from government regulation
and interference.
Corporate activity
Having profitably disposed of our investment in Tay Homes PLC the
Board pursued the acquisition of NorthCountry Homes Group
Limited ("NorthCountry"), a specialist in low cost quality homes for
people on low incomes, which was concluded on 1 August 2002.
NorthCountry operates principally in the North of England and has
five trading subsidiaries. It completed 630 homes in its financial
year to 30 June 2002 and we expect further volume growth in the
current year. The integration of the enlarged group has taken place
smoothly and trading since 1 September 2002 has been particularly
strong with contracted and completed sales of £17.8m and forward
reservations of £10.9m. As a result of the acquisition of
NorthCountry, the Group will change its financial year end to 30th
June and accordingly will prepare its interim accounts for the 4
months to 31st December 2002.
The Group has recently accumulated a strategic stake of 9.98% in
an AIM quoted company, Headway PLC, a provider of managed
business space on 5 brownfield sites, totalling approximately 25
acres. These shares are currently held as a trade investment.
Prospects
The enlarged Group now has a diverse product range and a wide
geographical spread. Demand for our product in the current
economic climate remains strong as demonstrated by the strong
forward order book.
The Group’s comprehensive approach to residential and commercial
property development places it in an excellent position to secure
large urban renewal projects on brownfield sites which should
provide additional opportunities for NorthCountry. Our developments
are situated in appropriate locations in the markets we operate in
and I therefore anticipate further growth in the current year. 
David Laing
Chairman
28 November 2002
No.17 Nicholas Way, Northwood, Middlesex
A substantial detached 6 bedroom house, comprising approximately
5,500 sq ft. The construction is expected to complete Spring 2003.
The property has been sold from plan for £2.0m.
