 I am delighted to report we have had our most successful year over
the last 13 years. 
Turnover was up by 94% to £62.8m with pre-tax profit before
amortisation of goodwill up by 72% to £6.85m. 
The results are even more impressive given that they are for a
shorter accounting period of ten months to 30 June 2003. Our 
year-end was changed to align with that of NorthCountry Homes
Group Ltd, which was acquired in August 2002. 
The NorthCountry Group has fitted seamlessly into the Group with
their skills in the development of affordable new homes on
environmentally challenging sites, complementing our wider
experience in mixed-use urban renewal projects in city centres and
conversions of listed buildings. 
The enlarged group sold 643 homes in the period at an average
price of £85,000 trading from 28 outlets. 
Our land teams have been working hard to increase our Land Bank
and I am pleased to say we now own or control 4,200 plots of
which 1,790 plots have planning consent. In addition we control
strategic land representing approximately 1,800 plots.
Our forward order book as at 30 September 2003 is £45.3m
comprising 394 units, which is a very satisfactory position. 
The housing market in the South East of England has continued to
slow down, due in part to the inability of first time buyers to be
able to afford to purchase. Prices had become over heated and I
am sure most people will welcome a return to a more stable
marketplace. 
Our Southern Division has started a programme of lower cost flats
and houses of which some will be created from the conversion of
former office blocks.
We are at the early stages of discussions with a number of
landowners within areas being promoted by the Office of the
Deputy Prime Minister to promote low cost housing in the Thames
Gateway and the South Midlands.
Our industry suffers from a dreadful planning system which we
have to endure where, with few exceptions, planning departments
find more and more spurious reasons to delay and prevent us
getting on with the job. Despite this continuing irritation our land
teams, led by my colleague David Foster, are still however
producing the plots as evidenced by our increasing Land Bank.
The Group has proved, with these results, its ability to grow all
aspects of the business and I remain confident that this can be
continued in the future.
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive
6 October 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Country & Metropolitan PLC   Annual Report & Accounts 2003
“The most successful year for Country & Metropolitan to date. Our substantial land
bank and varied mix of developments with a wide geographical spread provides a
strong platform for future growth.”
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive Robinsons, Moseley, Birmingham. A conversion of a former furniture warehouse into 46 apartments.  
Country & Metropolitan PLC   Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5
