 Country & Metropolitan continues to go from strength to strength and
once more I am delighted to report on another record set of results.
Turnover was up by 35% to £81.4m with pre tax profit before
amortisation of goodwill up by 91% to £10.9m. We have achieved
our seventh consecutive year of growth in profits and our stature
continues to grow within the house building industry.
During the last 12 months the Group has carefully repositioned
itself to become a major provider of lower priced homes which are
affordable to working people and in doing so we have successfully
anticipated the slow down in the market which is now taking place.
The market has, as expected, moderated over recent months and
we welcome that. The house price inflation over the last few years
was excessive and not sustainable and we are now seeing a return
to more normal conditions. We expect house price inflation to be
minimal which will help affordability.
The number of homes sold increased by 27% to 759 in the last
year at an average price of £121,000 and we traded from 38
outlets. 92% of completions were in the North of the country with
8% in the South.
During the year the Southern Division was refocused and
strengthened with a new Managing Director appointed and I am
pleased to report that we now have 290 (2003: 64) units under
construction in the South, with a Southern forward order book of
£10.6m.
The Group currently has forward orders (contracted and reserved
properties) in excess of £81m, comprising 599 units, which is an
extremely satisfactory position.
NorthCountry Homes (NCH), the low cost home provider based in
the north of England which we acquired some two years ago, has
been a major contributor to profit, based on its philosophy of
building in areas of deprivation where substantial regeneration is
required. NCH led by the original founder and Chairman, Jolyon
Harrison has a unique business model, providing aspirational homes
for working people, many of whom did not believe it would be
possible to become a home owner.
The change in communities when people “take ownership” is quite
dramatic, with our developments becoming the catalyst for change
in the wider areas of the community.
Commercial property income remained approximately static at
£861,000 and we are currently reviewing our portfolio with a view
to selling a number of properties and reinvesting the proceeds into
our core business.
A great deal of effort has gone into increasing the size of our land
holdings and despite working within a planning system that in
many parts of the country has become a complete farce, we have
made considerable progress against all the odds.
We now own or control 2,800 plots with planning consent, together
with a further 3,150 plots where planning has been applied for or
where contractual terms have been agreed. The Group also owns or
controls 195 acres of “strategic land” where we believe there is a
reasonable possibility of obtaining consent in due course.
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Country & Metropolitan PLC   Annual Report & Accounts 2004
“The Group has proved with these results its ability to anticipate changing market
conditions and we are confident we will continue to grow our business for the
benefit of our shareholders.”
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive Country & Metropolitan PLC   Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
Despite the Government making “the right noises” and seeming to
encourage more home building, there is little sign that this
enthusiasm has filtered down to local planning authorities, who
continue to be pitifully under resourced and suffer ongoing
interference from local politicians who are pressured by anti
development groups and the nimby fraternity.
Notwithstanding the planning issues, the fundamentals of the
housing market remain attractive with demand for affordable
homes outstripping supply. The upward trend in interest rates has
moderated house price inflation and with a substantial number of
sites in place we anticipate a significant increase in our unit
production.  
The Group has proved with these results its ability to anticipate a
changing market and to grow all aspects of the business and I
remain confident that this can be continued in the future.
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive
22 October 2004
Abacus, Digbeth, Birmingham
The successful launch of ‘Abacus’ within
the regeneration area of Birmingham
resulted in approximately 25% of the
units being sold. This former coffee
warehouse is being refurbished to provide
178 studio, one and two bedroom
apartments. 
Pictured: The Mayor of Birmingham,
Michael Nangle with Jean Atkins, Group
PR & Marketing Director and model of the
regeneration project.
