 Country & Metropolitan has produced yet another outstanding set of
results with record profit before amortisation of goodwill and tax of
£10.9m. This record result has been achieved by developing a
portfolio of homes that are affordable to a large cross section of the
UK market.
There has been a significant slowing down of the housing market in
the south of England over the last six months, with signs that the
north is also “cooling down”. Having re-positioned the Group to
become a major provider of lower priced homes, we are now taking
advantage of the strong demand for our homes which had an
average price of £121,000 during the last financial year.
Results and dividend 
The Group has increased its pre tax profit before amortisation of
goodwill by 91% to £10.9m (2003: £5.7m) from 759 (2003: 598)
units. This has translated into basic earnings per share before
amortisation of goodwill of 33.41p (2003: 21.07p) taking account of
approximately 5m shares issued in November 2003 that raised
£7.9m.  Following the introduction of FRS 5 Application Note G
“Revenue Recognition”, the Group has changed the point of income
recognition from exchange of contracts and substantially built to
exchange of contracts and build complete. The comparatives have
been restated in accordance with the new policy.
In line with my interim statement I am pleased to report that the
Board is proposing to increase the total dividend by 25% to 4.125p
(2003: 3.30p) per share resulting in a final dividend of 3.025p (2003:
2.60p) per share. The Board intends to increase the total dividend at
this rate over the next two years subject to matters beyond the
Group’s control. The final dividend will be paid on 7 January 2005 to
shareholders on the register on 3 December 2004.
Operating review
House price inflation in the UK over the last few years has been
excessive and clearly not sustainable. After five increases in interest
rates over the past ten months the housing market is gradually
settling down to more sustainable levels and we should see a return
to more normal trading conditions.
The Group completed its withdrawal from the premium homes
market in the south of England some time ago and our new
production in this market is focused on studio, one and two bedroom
apartments with prices starting from £87,500.
The markets in which NorthCountry Homes (“NCH”) operate have
been extremely buoyant and have experienced a strong level of
sales during the year, which has accelerated since 1 July 2004. NCH 
is now focused on an aggressive land acquisition programme and 
we intend to substantially increase the number of outlets to exploit
its position in the market place. I am particularly proud to inform 
you that NCH won the Derbyshire Business of the Year Award in 
June 2004.
A particular development of note is the 250 unit scheme at Havelock
Park near Sunderland which was launched a number of weeks ago.
Over three hundred people visited the development on the first day
and the demand was so strong that a ticketing system had to be
introduced to enable an organised entry to the Show Homes. A
substantial number of the units on this site have now been reserved.
Chairman’s Statement
2 Country & Metropolitan PLC   Annual Report & Accounts 2004
“The Group is now a major provider of lower cost homes for sale in the UK and it
is well placed to significantly increase unit production.”
David Laing
Chairman Another development of note was Abacus, comprising 178 units
close to Birmingham city centre, where 25% of the development
has been sold since the launch in July 2004 for £6.9m. 
The legal agreement in connection with our planning application
for High Royds Hospital in Menston, Leeds is expected to be
concluded shortly and the purchase of this major urban village is
expected in the early part of the second half of the current
financial year. The Group has a 50% interest in this project via a
joint venture company.
The Group is continuing to expand its land bank and currently owns
or controls 2,800 plots with planning consent and a further 3,150
plots where planning has been applied for or where terms have
been agreed.
The overall planning scenario in the UK is still very unsatisfactory.
The time it now takes to obtain planning permissions is an ever-
growing problem but we do have an extremely good track record
of obtaining consents on appeal.
Corporate activity
We sold our interest in Headway Plc in this current financial year at
a profit realising £2.7m of cash.
Prospects
Despite the doom and gloom in the media on house prices and the
market, Country & Metropolitan has commenced the new financial
year with the strongest ever order book, with contracted sales of
£38.3m and forward reservations of £43.4m at 30 September 2004.
There is tremendous pent up demand for housing in the UK
providing it is affordable and Country & Metropolitan is focused on
satisfying this need. The Group has been quick to react to the
changing market place and it would be a great shame if negative
comments in the press undermined house buyers’ confidence, as
the fundamentals are sound.
We believe that Country & Metropolitan will maintain its record of
increasing shareholder value over the forthcoming years.
David Laing
Chairman
22 October 2004
Country & Metropolitan PLC   Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3
