 8
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group o verview: Chief exeCutive offiCer’s review
it is a great pleasure to present to shareholders 
my first review as Chief executive of Cpp, 
having joined the business in october 2011 . 
since my arrival i have spent a significant 
amount of time listening to our various 
stakeholders, and observing at close hand  
how our business works in practice. i have 
talked to many hundreds of people within Cpp, 
and have engaged with Business partners and 
customers in most of the markets we serve. 
t he feedback has been consistent, and 
encouraging. Cpp has many strong assets  
that set it apart as a business – a strong team 
of dedicated people, a portfolio of market-
leading product and service offerings, a 
resilient and scalable systems infrastructure,  
a very well established customer base, 
long-standing relationships with an impressive 
mix of Business partners, a multi-country 
footprint which includes many of the world’s 
fastest growing emerging economies and a 
B2B2C business model that has served the 
business extremely well for many years.
t he most significant event of the past year,  
an event that had a disruptive impact on the 
performance of the Group, occurred in March 
2011, when the fs A launched an investigation 
into the selling practices employed in parts  
of our uK business. Although the investigation 
is not yet concluded, in f ebruary 2012, the 
Group and the fs A reached an agreement. 
firstly, to make certain amendments to our 
auto-renewal processes in the uK and secondly 
to carry out a pBr of those customers of Cpp 
who have bought our Card protection and/or 
identity protection products through our  
direct channels. 
t he pBr for identity p rotection relates to the 
possible mis-selling of policies to customers 
who may have been confused or misled in  
the sales process.
t he pBr for Card p rotection is different in  
that the product has a feature, namely post 
notification fraud cover, which in actual fact  
is not required, as, post notification, it is the 
issuing bank that covers any fraud. t his feature 
has been in our Card protection product for 
many years; however, it was removed during 
2011 . t he feature has been commonplace in 
Card protection products in the market offered 
by other players. 
in respect of the agreed pBr, where 
customers of either identity protection or  
Card protection are found to have been  
misled, confused and/or mis-sold at point  
of sale, we will ensure they get full redress.
As at the time of writing, the planning and 
logistics for the pBr is in process. we have 
provided £15 million for the estimated one-off 
costs to the business of the changes to the 
renewals process, and of the pBr (based on 
the estimates of likely response rates provided 
to us by our advisers).
we are disappointed and deeply sorry that  
our past sales practices have not met the 
standards required, and we are determined  
to do everything in our power to demonstrate 
that the quality of our sales practices going 
forward set new benchmarks for the industry.  
i know that my colleagues share my own 
desire to see Cpp emerge from this period as  
a stronger, more customer-centric organisation. 
t he sense of team spirit i observe within the  
business, together with the determination we 
all share to do the right thing by the customer, 
are the all-important building blocks of a new 
and exciting future for Cpp . however, one of 
the financial implications of the investigation 
has been the announcement of a voluntary 
redundancy programme to help align our cost 
base to our revenue.
t he year ahead will be challenging, not least 
because of the difficult economic conditions 
we face in some of the markets in which  
we trade, as well as having to deal with the 
outcome of the fs A investigation. Despite 
these short-term challenges, i believe the 
longer-term potential for the business 
remains significant. 
Financial results
i am pleased to report that Cpp has delivered 
good revenue growth in 2011, notwithstanding 
the difficulties caused by the disruption from 
the fs A investigation. f or the year as a whole, 
Group revenue is up 6%, although underlying 
operating profit is down 2%.
New assistance income decreased in the year 
by 3% from £88.0 million to £85.5 million, in 
large part as a result of lower sales of our retail 
policies in the uK and spain. t he decline in the 
uK was a direct result of the lower level of 
retail sales following the cessation of sales of 
the insured identity protection product in uK 
voice channels from March 2011 . in spain, the 
difficult economic environment has continued 
to affect sales of new policies. our total live 
policy base has decreased 2% during the year 
and now totals 11 .0 million. 
our blended renewal rate was 75.4% at the 
end of December 2011, marginally lower than 
in 2010 (75.9%). however, our renewal rate 
calculated on a constant country mix compared 
to December 2010 would be 76.0%. t he 
marginal decline in renewal rate is due to the 
increase in the proportion of our live policy 
base from lower renewal markets. t hese 
markets include our newer markets where  
the renewal model is less established. 
our cost/income ratio, representing cost  
of sales (excluding commission) and other 
administrative expenses as a percentage  
of revenue, has increased 4% to 55%.  
t his increase is largely due to the growth  
of our uK p ackaged Accounts business,  
which generally has a lower revenue  
per policy and higher direct costs. 
finally, our operating profit margin has 
decreased from 15.0% in 2010 to 13.8%  
due to the impact of lost identity protection 
sales in the uK market and higher uK  
operating costs. t his has been partially  
offset by improvements to operating  
margins in Germany, turkey and spain.
“ t he sense of team spirit i observe  
within the business, together with  
the determination we all share to do  
the right thing by the customer, are  
the all-important building blocks of  
a new and exciting future for Cpp .”
Paul Stobart
Chief executive officer
Chief exeCutive offiCer’s review 9
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategy
As i have already mentioned, Cpp has great 
strengths in its people, its products, its 
customer base, its systems and its business 
model. Yet there is more that we can do to 
strengthen the business.
i would point out three areas, in particular, where 
i believe we need to place additional focus.
f irstly, we must give more attention to  
product marketing. it is, after all, through our 
efforts in product marketing that we will create 
the great product and service ideas of the 
future. product marketers take great care to 
understand the customer’s perspective in 
intimate detail and gain insights on the pain 
points that customers currently experience. 
t hese insights then inform the creation of 
powerful, relevant and compelling products  
and services that provide real benefits to 
customers. And for every product or service 
they create, product marketers also ensure  
that the quality of the customer experience  
is sacrosanct. 
in many ways, Cpp’s great successes of  
the past have come about as a result of 
outstanding product marketing. w hat we  
need to do is ensure that product marketing 
thrives once again within Cpp so that we 
create the right propositions for customers. 
encouragingly, i see excellent product and 
service innovation taking place right across  
the Group, much of it in the online, mobile  
and social media spaces, which is exactly 
where we need to be if we are to enhance  
our presence, visibility and relevance to 
Business partners and customers.
secondly, we need to be even more focused 
on serving the customer to the best of our 
ability. h ere we are building on a great history 
of excellence in customer service; indeed our 
customer satisfaction statistics are some of  
the highest i have come across. Yet we do  
not want to be complacent; rather we want  
to move the organisation even further towards 
a customer-centric way of thinking and 
working. to this end, we are investing in 
leadership development, training and 
communications as well as making 
improvements to business processes,  
systems and governance. we are united in  
our ambition to provide customers with the 
kind of experience that will set us apart from 
our competitors, and that will encourage our 
customers to renew their policies, to buy  
more products from us, and to recommend  
us to others.
i can already see that our increased focus on 
the customer is reaping rewards. i have, for 
example, seen many instances of Cpp people 
going the extra mile for the customer, and not 
resting until outstanding issues have been 
resolved to the customer’s satisfaction. 
equally, i see leadership behaviours shifting, 
new strategic thinking emerging, and growing 
investment being made in the people through 
whom we will deliver on our customer 
promise. h owever, there is more to be done.
t hirdly, we need to ensure that, as a leadership 
team, we manage our business, and measure 
our performance, with enhanced discipline.  
in the u K the fs A investigation and its 
consequences have proved to be highly 
disruptive and have created an environment  
of uncertainty that affected the business  
far beyond the confines of the u K market. 
Going forward, however, everyone in the  
wider leadership community is united in  
being determined to drive the business  
forward responsibly and with great discipline.
Regulation and our relationship 
with the FSA
we operate in a regulated environment in  
many markets around the world and enjoy  
good relationships with the regulators in  
each of those markets. 
in the u K, though, and with the benefit of 
hindsight, it is clear that we should have 
worked harder to ensure that we were 
compliant in every respect and developed a 
Key priorities 
 – Ensure that the agreement we 
have reached with the FSA  
is effected to the satisfaction  
of all stakeholders
 – Shift our culture and operating 
model to one of growth  
through customer-centricity, 
supported by strengthened 
management discipline and 
enhanced governance
 – Encourage our product 
marketing people to use  
their creativity and flair to 
develop the product and  
service propositions that  
will drive our future success, 
especially in the online, mobile 
and social media markets
 – Ensure our investments in the 
emerging markets of China, 
India, Turkey, Mexico and Brazil  
take full advantage of the 
significant growth opportunities
 – Do everything we can to retain 
and recruit the talent we need, 
at all levels, to deliver our 
future success 10
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group o verview: Chief exeCutive offiCer’s review CONTINUED
stronger working relationship with the fs A. 
More recently and post the fs A investigation 
we have adopted an entirely different approach. 
firstly, we have put more investment into our 
legal and compliance areas. secondly, we have 
effected change throughout the organisation 
both in people and in process, in order to make 
sure that compliance receives the right level  
of focus. t hirdly, we have engaged two leading 
firms of lawyers, the first specifically for the  
uK to advise us on how we meet or exceed 
customer-facing business standards demanded 
by our obligations as a regulated firm, and the  
second to advise the Group as a whole on how 
we can improve our governance more 
generally. t his advice is being implemented as 
quickly as is practicable to demonstrate we are 
as robust as we can be from a regulatory, 
compliance and governance perspective, not 
just in the uK, but throughout the Group. 
f ourthly, and since the onset of the 
investigation, we have been working much 
more closely and co-operatively with the fs A. 
our experiences in the last 12 months have 
served to remind us in no uncertain terms 
about our regulatory responsibilities and i am 
satisfied that the right work is being done to 
safeguard against finding ourselves in a similar 
situation again.
Business review
in Northern europe our performance has  
been resilient under what have been 
challenging circumstances; despite this,  
the uK business delivered some notable 
successes. our p ackaged Accounts business 
continued to grow strongly and, importantly, 
our contract with t-Mobile has been extended  
to september 2012.
in southern europe the economic challenges, 
compounded by market sentiment around the 
euro, have undoubtedly had an impact on our 
business, particularly in spain, where we have 
seen revenue decline. Conversely, our main 
Latin American market, Mexico, reported  
good growth and we are excited by our recent 
launch into Brazil, a market with a large and 
rapidly growing economy presenting us with 
significant growth opportunities.
in North America, we had a successful 2011 
with revenue and profit up significantly, 
including increased customer acquisition of 
products across our Business partner portfolio.
in Asia pacific we have brought new focus and 
vigour to the leadership of this region, which  
is beginning to pay dividends. t he prize in Asia 
pacific is undoubtedly the untapped potential  
of india and China. we are working hard in  
both these markets to drive both significant 
revenue growth and an appropriate return  
on investment.
Key priorities
i am still early in my tenure at Cpp, yet i have 
identified five key priorities. t he first, and most 
immediate, is to ensure that the agreement 
with the fs A is effected to the satisfaction  
of all stakeholders. t he second is to shift our 
culture and operating model to one of growth 
through customer-centricity, supported by 
strengthened management discipline and 
enhanced governance. t hirdly, i want to  
see our product marketing people be more 
encouraged to use their creativity and flair to 
develop the product and service propositions 
that will drive our future success, and i want  
to see a particular focus, going forward, in  
our product and service thinking on the online, 
mobile and social media markets. f ourthly,  
focus on ensuring our investments in the 
emerging markets of China, india, turkey, 
Mexico and Brazil take full advantage of the 
significant growth opportunities. t he fifth 
priority is to do everything we can, at a  
difficult time for the Group, to retain, and  
in some areas recruit, the talent we need,  
at all levels, to deliver our future success.
Outlook
t he year to December 2011 has been a  
difficult period for the Group. Much has  
been learned, and much needs to change. 
however, the longer-term opportunities remain 
considerable, and we are well placed to make 
the most of these, building on our strengths  
as a multi-product, multi-geography, multi-
channel business with specialist product 
marketing expertise.
finally, i would like to thank the people of  
Cpp for their unwavering support, loyalty and 
commitment. it is through the efforts of the 
many people at Cpp that, notwithstanding the 
disruptions to our business during the year, we 
were able to deliver the 2011 financial results.  
i am personally very grateful to each and every 
one of our people for their contributions this 
year and i look forward to working with them  
in the years to come.
Paul Stobart
Chief executive officer
“ we are well placed to make the most  
of our longer-term opportunities, building  
on our strengths as a multi-product,  
multi-geography, multi-channel business 
with specialist product marketing expertise. ”
