 12
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group o verview: Chief operA tiNG offiCer’s review 
201 1 has been a challenging year for Cpp and 
for many of our employees, especially in the uK. 
Nevertheless we have made progress across  
the Group. 
operationally we have made great strides in 
improving our internal processes to demonstrate 
we have a true customer-centric culture that will 
provide a solid platform for future growth. we are 
very cognisant of the need to make sure that  
our sales processes are as robust as our proven 
service operations, which help thousands of 
anxious customers with lost payment cards, 
stolen identities, stressful legal disputes and  
lost and stolen mobile phones. 
it is our absolute priority that we focus our efforts 
on improving the entire customer experience  
and the Company’s fulfilment of all its promises. 
t he continued development of our people 
remains a priority and will help us achieve this.  
in the uK, the business implemented a leadership 
programme called ‘developing a leadership 
mindset’ that inspired managers to get the best 
out of their teams and orientate all our people 
behind our strategic ambitions and our common 
purpose. it is this investment that will help Cpp 
improve its performance, increase productivity 
and deliver improved bottom line results.
if we look towards our regions, our performance 
across Northern europe in 201 1 was robust, 
despite the uncertain economic environment, 
helped by our resilient customer base and the 
growth of our Mobile phone insurance business 
in the uK. in addition, our uK p ackaged Accounts 
business has performed well and seen us work 
closely with santander and rBs Group. 
Notwithstanding these successes, Barclaycard 
suspended new sales to their uK-based 
customers through their call to confirm channel 
after announcement of the fs A investigation in 
March 201 1 and, following their normal tender 
process, will not renew their contract when this 
expires on 31 March 2012. in turkey, revenue  
and profit are up in this growing economy with 
renewal rates improving and new Business 
partners signed.
r evenue has increased 7% in this region  
although operating profit for this region is  
5% lower, impacted by lost retail income and  
reduced operating efficiency as a result of the  
fs A investigation.
Across southern europe and Latin America,  
the picture is more mixed. r evenue across the 
region has decreased 7%. t he continued difficult 
economic situation in the eurozone has affected 
our trading performance through higher 
unemployment and lower amounts of disposable 
income. Despite this we have entered into new 
relationships with some major banks including 
Banca Banesto, which is the fifth largest banking 
group in spain and owned by Banco santander 
and Caixa Geral de Depósitos (CDG), a state-
owned banking corporation and the largest bank 
in portugal.
our Mexican operation has continued to make 
good progress with strong revenue and profit 
growth as this market becomes established.  
As our business matures, it is encouraging to see 
our renewal rates improve and margins increase. 
elsewhere in Latin America, we are pleased to 
have commenced sales of Card protection in 
Brazil where we consider the opportunity for 
growth significant. t his is based on a large 
bankable population that totals 134 million adults 
with more than 700 million financial cards in 
circulation. Brazil also has over 191 million mobile 
phone subscriptions.
our newer markets in Latin America are a good 
example of how we are leveraging our existing 
international Business partners such as santander, 
hsBC and the rBs Group to launch in new 
markets. Not only does this accelerate our  
entry plans, but it gives us additional confidence 
having succeeded in other markets with  
the same proven products and Business  
partner relationships.
in North America, our performance has been 
excellent. r evenue is up 24% and profit is up 
21% as we have focused on managing our 
renewal income and developed relationships  
with Business partners whose customers 
typically choose to retain their products for longer. 
Growth has been helped by an increase in the 
number of customers acquiring our retail products 
and renewal rates that have increased. i am also 
pleased we have launched packaged Accounts in 
this market with Citizens financial Group, inc. t he 
united states, with a population of 312 million and 
1 .8 billion financial cards in use, remains a very 
important market for Cpp , with all the ingredients 
for long-term success.
China and india offer significant opportunities  
for long-term growth in our Asia pacific region.  
in india we continue to make good progress.  
A new Business partner relationship has been 
signed with sBi Cards, a joint venture between, 
the state Bank of india, the largest indian banking 
and financial services company and Ge Money, as 
well as expanding our presence in the debit card 
market with iCiCi Bank and Kotak Bank. i am 
delighted that india has seen an increase in 
revenue, underlying operating profit, new sales, 
renewals and margins. 
in China, although we are in the early stages  
of development, revenue is up strongly. Good 
progress has been made and i am confident  
we will continue to grow our customer volumes 
and Business partner relationships in this rapidly 
developing economy. w ith over 3 billion financial 
cards in circulation in this country alone and over 
900 million mobile phone subscriptions, the 
potential for growth is huge and we are working 
hard to maximise these opportunities as we 
increasingly understand how to do business  
in this economic superpower.
elsewhere in this region, notably hong Kong and 
Malaysia, regulatory challenges persist in affecting 
our performance, but we continue to work hard  
to overcome these issues.
in conclusion, the progress we have made in 201 1 
is encouraging. t he actions we have taken will 
create a more customer-centric organisation that 
will help the Group move forward with added 
confidence, clarity and certainty. we will continue 
to deliver products that meet our customers’ 
expectations and everyday needs. i am confident 
in our ability to deliver sustained growth and 
believe there are significant opportunities to  
grow the business across all of our geographical 
markets. i am also looking forward to working 
with my colleagues across the Group to make 
Cpp a more rewarding place for our people to 
work in order to deliver substantial value for our 
customers and investors.
Stephen Kennedy
Chief operating officer
 
Note: All growth percentages are stated on constant  
currency basis.
“ t he progress we have made in 201 1  
is encouraging. t he actions we have  
taken will create a more customer-centric 
organisation that will help the Group  
move forward with added confidence, 
clarity and certainty. ”
Stephen Kennedy
Chief operating officer
Chief operA tiNG offiCer’s review o PERATIn G 
REvIEw
13
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
o per Ati NG review
