 7
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Gr Oup Overview: c hair Man’s state Ment
201 1 has been a difficult year for the Group,  
in large part due to the investigation by the 
Financial services authority (Fsa ) into some  
of the Group’s sales activities in the u K business. 
t he investigation commenced in March 201 1,  
and detailed discussions remain ongoing. we are, 
however, pleased that we have been able to 
reach an agreement with the Fsa on the remedial 
actions necessary to ensure not only that our 
sales processes improve going forward, but  
also that we provide appropriate redress for 
customers who were confused or misled  
when buying our products in the past. 
Outside the u K, there have been some notable 
and very pleasing achievements across the  
Group that we must not lose sight of and which 
are by no means insignificant.
we have continued to expand the Group’s 
international activities with important new 
Business partner agreements signed in c hina, 
india, turkey and Mexico as well as delivering  
our first policy sales in Brazil. in n orth a merica 
the business has performed exceptionally well 
driven by robust new sales and a strong renewal 
performance. in europe we have expanded the 
range of products sold, and in the u K h ome 3, 
our home emergency joint venture service  
with Mapfre a sistencia, has signed a contract 
with scottishpower. internationally our a irport 
l ounge business continues to develop its 
portfolio of partners. c ritically, and in spite of the 
Fsa investigation and associated publicity, many  
of our customers have chosen to retain our 
products; a clear demonstration that they value 
the reassurance that our products and services 
provide. Of all our operational achievements,  
it is this loyalty towards our products and  
services that gives me the most satisfaction  
and reinforces my belief there is a large and 
growing market for our products, which should 
once again deliver robust growth for the Group.
n evertheless, the announcement to the  
market of the Fsa investigation in March 201 1 
represented the first in a chain of events and 
announcements leading ultimately to the 
suspension of trading in the Group’s shares  
in February 2012. t his is the point at which 
changes to the renewal process and past 
Business r eview (pBr ) required by the Fsa 
became known. t he Fsa’s investigation and 
identification of practices below the required 
standard is of course a deeply regrettable chapter 
in the development of the Group. it has absorbed 
a significant amount of resource, with both 
operational and administrative management in 
the u K dedicating significant time and effort  
to satisfying the Fsa’s requests for information 
and co-operating with the Fsa on all aspects of 
the investigation; this has inevitably impacted 
adversely on the performance of the business.
away from the business activities of the  
Group there have been a number of significant 
organisational changes. we were delighted  
to announce the appointment of paul stobart  
as c hief executive Officer in september to 
replace eric woolley. paul joins the Group with  
a wealth of experience having had a number of 
u K and international senior roles at sage Group,  
a business with a similar profile to the Group, 
albeit in software services rather than l ife 
assistance. paul started in October and is  
already making a positive impact on the business. 
we also made a change to the management of 
our a sia pacific business with the recruitment of 
r ichard Brady who has many years’ experience  
of operating in c hina and the asia pacific region. 
we have also strengthened our legal and 
compliance teams particularly in the u K, to 
ensure not only that are we compliant with new 
rules and regulations in so far as they relate to 
sales of financial products to the consumer, but 
also that we are able to meet the current and 
anticipated requirements of regulators in all of  
the jurisdictions in which we operate.
to comply with the changes in the u K c orporate 
Governance c ode we have separated the 
functions of audit and r isk into two separate 
committees with l es Owen continuing to chair 
the audit c ommittee and d uncan Mcintyre 
chairing the new r isk and c ompliance 
c ommittee. we have also established  
a Governance c ommittee to ensure that  
we are fully compliant with all the rules  
and regulations of those organisations who 
supervise our business formally and informally 
around the world.
w ith regard to the u K c orporate Governance 
c ode we have not complied with the requirement 
to appoint a senior independent d irector; with 
some 75% of the c ompany’s shares owned  
by two investors and the uncertainties created  
by the Fsa investigation, we do not feel that  
it is appropriate to do so. we have noted the 
recommendations of the d avies c ommittee 
regarding the appointment of women  
to the Boards of listed companies in the u K. 
h owever, we believe that diversity rather than 
gender should be the criterion and furthermore 
that relevant experience is more important than 
gender or diversity. i strongly believe that  
we have a Board that is ‘fit for purpose’, but  
will continue to keep this under review.  
a n independent evaluation of the Board was 
carried out during 201 1 and its recommendations 
are currently being implemented. t he evaluation 
identified no major issues with regard to the 
performance of the Board.
in conclusion, as i said at the beginning of  
this statement, it has been a difficult year for  
the Group, but we remain committed to providing  
our customers with products and services that 
give them real value and at a price that is 
affordable. we also intend to be at the forefront 
of our competitors in providing a level of 
customer service that is unequalled in our 
industry. Finally for you, our shareholders,  
we are determined to rebuild confidence in  
the Group’s business model to a level at least 
comparable with the resolute trust that millions  
of satisfied customers have in our products and 
services across all our geographical markets.
Charles Gregson
c hairman
c hair Man’s state Ment
“ it has been a difficult year for the Group, 
but we remain committed to providing  
our customers with products and services 
that give them real value and at a price that 
is affordable. ”
Charles Gregson
c hairman
