 www.cppgroupplc.com
10 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer 
Brent Escott gives his views on the organisation and its performance, reflects on the 
challenges and looks ahead to the future. Brent has over 25 years’ experience in the 
insurance industry and has been Chief Executive Officer of CPP since September 2013.
Why did you take this job and what 
experience do you bring with you to CPP?
Above all else, the determination of our 
people here at CPP is very compelling. 
In spite of the significant challenges over 
the past few years, their determination 
and team spirit is unsurpassed. At a macro 
level I was excited by the opportunity to 
leverage the strengths of CPP and recognise 
what I believe to be the growing global 
opportunities within our market. As 
importantly, I bring relevant skills and 
experience to support CPP through the 
challenges we face, towards a period 
of stability and growth in the future.
I have led many different organisations, 
both large and small and also in the various 
stages of growth and distress. My knowledge 
of insurance and regulation is extremely 
beneficial in addressing the immediate 
issues within CPP, particularly as retaining 
revenue from the existing backbook is 
fundamental to the Group’s performance, 
but longer term I’m excited by the 
opportunity of rebuilding CPP. 
What were your initial priorities when you 
became CEO of CPP?
The Group has undergone a difficult period 
and challenging times require focused action. 
Therefore, my priority was to take the time 
to listen and speak with our people across the 
Group and our stakeholders in order to move 
the business forward and emerge stronger.
Managing change and rebuilding a business 
requires a specific skillset different to 
managing growth in a steady environment. 
You have to act rapidly, identify key issues 
and take decisive action. 
At CPP, we had to act decisively to preserve 
cash and review all expenditure across the 
Group. We also had to ensure that we really 
understood the true state of our operations 
and the robustness of our existing products 
and distribution model. In parallel, I wanted 
to strengthen the management team 
and expertise that supports our future 
development. At the same time, it was 
critical that we worked with the FCA to 
ensure that the Scheme became operational 
in order for us to put right the mistakes of 
the past. We’ve achieved an enormous 
amount in a short period of time.
Taking people on this journey is important 
as they need to believe in the plan and look 
towards a better future.
Can you explain what you believe are 
CPP’s strengths?
CPP has many strengths and knowledge 
that we can build on. We see demand for our 
products from our customers who value the 
support we provide during difficult times and 
also with our Business Partners where we 
enable them to enhance their customer offering. 
We look after 7.1 million live policies from 
operational centres around the world, our 
renewal rates are 69.4% and we have strong 
telemarketing capabilities. An over-riding 
factor though is our people, who are our most 
important asset and their commitment, 
professionalism and willingness to embrace 
change is critical to our success in the future. 
2013 was an important year for the 
Group; can you explain why?
We made good progress during the year 
to support the next phase of the Group’s 
development and achieved a number of 
milestones which provided the business 
with a position of greater stability. 
That said, we’re on a journey to re-engineer 
the business and there is much work that 
remains. However, as a result of the actions we 
are taking, the milestones achieved and the 
investment to strengthen our management 
capabilities, things are changing for the 
better and we can now look forward.
What is the main focus for the year ahead? 
We need to stabilise the operational 
environment, implement a new IT 
infrastructure and further strengthen our 
governance to ensure we meet the necessary 
regulatory standards across all the countries 
we operate in. This, ultimately, will allow us 
to apply to remove the restrictions on our 
regulatory permissions. At the same time, 
we will review all our country activities, 
product and distribution channels and 
work to strengthen our Business Partner 
relationships. 
A key focus for 2014 is our commitment 
to achieving the best outcome for customers 
through the Scheme and completing the 
process to review claims and, where 
appropriate, pay redress to customers. 
What do you believe has changed to 
address the legacy issues of the past? 
CPP was very successful and grew rapidly. 
However, the governance, controls and 
framework required to operate a sustainable 
business were lacking. The way a business 
acts and behaves is central to its success 
and the delivery of sustainable financial 
performance. Our culture is customer 
focused; providing the right product at the 
right price matched with a high quality 
service that our customers deserve. The 
organisation has changed considerably from 
the practices and culture that existed in the 
past, which resulted in the well documented 
regulatory challenges that the business has 
faced and we should be judged on our 
current merits rather than past mistakes. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
 ǔ Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
What do you believe is the value that CPP 
can bring to customers?
Our products provide assistance at times 
of need to our customers. We continue to 
monitor customer feedback and track our 
net promoter score (NPS) to ensure our 
customers place value on the products and 
the services we offer. The world is rapidly 
changing and customer needs are changing 
with it. This provides an exciting opportunity 
for us to lead the development and distribution 
of new products and services as we move 
forward.
When do you expect financial 
performance to return to growth?
The Group’s headline financial results 
reflect the overall challenges of our 
environment and on-going risks that we 
face. Our plans are therefore subject to 
execution risk and the on-going challenges 
and uncertainties which remain, particularly 
related to the Scheme and liquidity. 
Nonetheless, we are investing in people, 
expertise and technology to improve 
our business processes and increase 
operational efficiency and, in parallel, 
managing our costs is key as we create 
a sustainable business that will generate 
growth in the longer term.
What does the future hold for CPP?
Our focus over the next few years is to 
show that CPP can return to growth in its 
core products and markets. At the same time, 
we will invest more resource into understanding 
emerging opportunities for CPP which will 
lead to another phase of development. But 
we have to make sure that the building blocks 
are in place first and I envisage a scenario 
where we will completely reinvent CPP. The 
business, as a result, will be more efficient 
and modern and I am excited about the 
longer term prospects for the Group.
