 www.cppgroupplc.com
08 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Progress made
•  Refinanced the Group, commenced 
restructure and streamlined the 
cost base
• Reviewed operational and IT 
capabilities, existing products 
and distribution 
• Improved internal governance 
and controls
• Developed a clear short term 
plan for the business
• Strengthened the depth and 
expertise of management
Our priorities
• Complete the Scheme of 
Arrangement
• Implement a robust and efficient 
operational and IT environment
• Strengthen governance and 
controls across the Group
• Modernise our products to 
enhance our customer experience 
• Apply to remove the restrictions on 
our regulatory permissions in the 
UK (removal of VVOP) 
• Strengthen Business Partner 
relationships
• Engage with stakeholders 
to agree the long term future 
of the business
We are moving forward and building a stronger business 
to realise our future opportunities
Our progress
In my first review as Chief Executive Officer 
of CPP I am encouraged by the progress that 
the Group has made, despite the challenges 
it has faced. I joined CPP in June 2013 as 
Interim Deputy CEO before being appointed 
Group CEO in September 2013. It is clear 
to me that the journey for CPP has been 
difficult and that the milestones achieved 
would not have been possible without the 
hard work of our people. I give great credit 
to them for their continued dedication to 
both CPP and our customers. 
Much work took place during 2013 and we 
have made considerable progress in a short 
time; evident in the sale of the US business, 
the successful refinancing, repositioning the 
Group and streamlining our cost base. Since 
my appointment in September, there has 
been a clear focus on reducing cost, 
assessing the capability of the operational and 
IT environment and undertaking a thorough 
assessment of the future potential of the 
existing business model – both products 
and distribution. At the same time, we have 
successfully commenced the Scheme and we 
are encouraged that those who voted were 
overwhelmingly in support of the Scheme. 
We have refocused our international business 
development and sales efforts, minimum 
standards have been introduced across the 
Group and we are finalising plans to embed 
a cost-effective IT platform and a more 
efficient operational environment. The review 
of our existing activities has resulted in the 
planned exit from France and Singapore and 
we also completed the sale of our 
shareholding in Home3, a joint venture with 
Mapfre. Most importantly, we have 
identified and delivered further operational 
cost savings, expected to be £15 million 
year-on-year. 
There is more work ahead as we modernise, 
reposition the business and complete the 
required changes to our operating and IT 
environment. Nevertheless, the progress 
made has provided CPP with a more stable 
platform from which to move forward and 
build the foundations that will support our 
future growth.
Our performance 
As expected, our financial performance 
during 2013 reflects the challenges of the 
Group’s environment, particularly in the UK, 
and has been compounded by the loss of 
key business contracts. Revenue reduced 
to £178.0 million (2012: £269.9 million) and 
underlying operating performance which 
excludes exceptional items reduced from 
a profit in 2012 to a loss of £1.8 million 
(2012: £26.7 million profit). The Group has 
recognised significant exceptional items in the 
period of £37.5 million (2012: £43.9 million), 
mainly comprising customer redress 
and associated costs, restructuring costs 
and IT asset impairments that reflect the 
write-down of historical capital expenditure 
on the balance sheet. This has resulted in 
a reported operating loss of £39.3 million 
(2012: £17.3 million). At a Group level, 
renewal rates for the year were 69.4% 
(2012: 73.5%) and live policies totalled 
7.1 million (2012: 9.1 million).
In the face of these challenges and the 
significant risks and uncertainties the Group 
has endured, it has been difficult to grow 
the business in recent years.
Scheme letters were issued from 12 February 
2014 and Scheme claims are tracking broadly 
within our expectations. We have further 
increased the provision for customer redress 
and associated costs by £4.0 million since 
20 December 2013, resulting in the total cost 
Brent Escott
Chief Executive Officer
Our business model 
page 12
Our strategy 
page 13
Our stakeholders and Corporate 
Responsibility 
pages 14 and 15
Operating review 
pages 16 and 17 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 09
“ The progress made has provided CPP with a more 
stable platform from which to move forward and build the 
foundations that will support our future growth.”
Brent Escott, Chief Executive Officer
provided to date of £69.8 million. This 
increase reflects the current best estimate 
of customer responses and associated 
costs and is based on the latest information 
available to the Board. We have also been 
granted an amendment to our loan facilities 
with our existing lenders to increase the 
covenant default limit regarding customer 
response rates leading to a successful 
claim under the Scheme from 32 per cent 
to 40 per cent. This increase provides the 
Group further headroom and additional 
comfort as the Scheme progresses. The 
Group has worked hard to ensure it has 
sufficient financial resources to complete 
the Scheme and whilst there continues 
to be risk in this area, the Group continues 
to make positive progress regarding its 
financial stability. It is however anticipated 
that the Group total cash balance will reduce 
significantly in 2014 as a result of redress 
payments.
Change for the better
Since 2011, a review of our business has 
been undertaken in the light of legitimate 
concerns raised by the UK regulator, the 
FCA. Recognising and understanding where 
CPP went wrong is a pivotal step in the 
journey to rebuilding a responsible, modern, 
customer-led business. A number of positive 
steps have been taken and substantial 
changes have been made to practices and 
culture, yet there is more that we need to do 
in order to fully realise this ambition and have 
the full confidence of our stakeholders. 
Our priorities
Following my appointment as Chief Executive 
Officer in September 2013, a key priority has 
been to clearly understand the issues that 
the organisation faces, how we can address 
those challenges and identify the expertise 
required to achieve our goals. In parallel, 
we have worked constructively with the 
FCA and Business Partners in relation to the 
Scheme, with a clear priority to achieve the 
best outcome for customers and complete 
the Scheme.
We have identified a number of core priorities 
and developed a realistic short term business 
plan from which we can move forward in 
the next phase of reshaping our organisation. 
It is essential that we implement a robust 
and efficient operational environment and 
cost-effective IT platform whilst we also 
continue to strengthen our governance, 
controls, compliance and risk management 
capabilities. Rebuilding the business on solid 
foundations will provide a stronger position 
from which we can apply to remove the 
restrictions on our regulatory permissions.
We will also place great emphasis on our 
people, our customers, our performance and 
strengthening relationships with our Business 
Partners. These aspects are central to achieving 
an optimal balance for the business and 
moving towards our aim of being an efficient 
organisation which is compliant and looks 
after customers well.
Our plan
The Board and I have developed a clear plan 
to stabilise the Group whilst we complete 
the Scheme, resulting from a realistic 
understanding of our strengths, market 
opportunities and the challenges that 
remain. The key aspects of our immediate 
business plan are outlined on page 13, 
which encompasses four elements: rebuild, 
improve, modernise and evolve.
As we gain greater certainty and the Scheme 
progresses, we will continue to engage with 
key stakeholders to agree the future plans 
for the Group. We can then begin to build 
the foundations that will support the longer 
term direction of the business. Once these 
uncertainties are removed we expect to 
move into 2015 in a stronger position.
During 2014, our aim is to complete the 
improvements required as we begin to 
modernise our products and service channels 
to enhance our customer experience, with a 
renewed focus on realising the demand for 
solutions in the digital environment. We will 
continue to work with our stakeholders as we 
explore the emerging opportunities for CPP 
in order to clearly understand the long term 
growth potential of the business.
Understanding and engaging with 
our stakeholders 
We proactively seek to maintain strong 
relationships with our stakeholders 
through frequent, transparent dialogue 
and consultation. In view of the difficult 
and exceptional circumstances that the 
Group has faced, we believe this is critical 
to re-establishing positive perceptions of 
the Group and sustaining valued relationships. 
The Group has a credible plan, a strong team 
and my commitment is to do everything 
to ensure our business operates in a 
responsible and accountable way, meeting 
the needs of all stakeholders. 
Looking ahead
We are moving forward with a clear short 
term plan and objectives that will support 
the development of our longer term strategy. 
There is a long way to go and we need to 
place great focus on completing 
the changes and improvements required, 
whilst concluding the Scheme. 
We are taking decisive action and are 
focused on working hard to deliver against 
our plans. Nonetheless, material uncertainties 
remain, particularly in relation to the Scheme, 
liquidity and the execution and delivery of 
our plans. As a result, the outlook continues 
to reflect the significant challenges and risks 
ahead and performance in 2014 will 
continue to be constrained. However, my 
team and I are concentrating our efforts on 
rebuilding the business and realising the 
future opportunities that will bring success 
and sustainable growth back to CPP.
Brent Escott 
Chief Executive Officer
23 April 2014
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
 ǔ Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
