 7  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
The Group’s excellent 
performance demonstrates  
the health and strength of our 
business model and ultimately  
the delivery capability, skills  
and longstanding experience  
of our people.
This year the Group has delivered increased output, 
sales volume and operating margin in a housing 
market that has altered significantly since 2008, 
and that is still suffering the effects of the global 
credit crunch and restricted mortgage availability.
one of the main drivers of these excellent results  
is crest nicholson’s own workforce, who have once 
again demonstrated resilience and adaptability  
in implementing the Group’s strategy for growth.  
i thank them wholeheartedly for their contribution.
Allied to this strength of talent is ‘the  
crest Difference’ – the Group’s ethos and delivery  
of high quality design and sustainable development 
focused on the needs of customers and 
communities. This is a valued heritage – the 
Group’s DnA – and the Board has continued  
to emphasise its constant renewal to meet the 
demands of an evolving market, technology 
challenges, and the ever changing complexities  
of regulation that are part of the Government’s 
‘zero carbon’ timeline for new housing. 
While the operating environment remains 
challenging, i believe that this focus on customers, 
design and sustainability creates the right culture 
of innovation for delivering the new homes in which 
today’s purchasers and those of tomorrow will  
want to live. 
on a foundation of secure finances and with  
the full support of our shareholders, the  
Board’s priority has been to build on last year’s 
robust performance. The continuing drive has  
been to deliver business value through the  
acquisition of sites in prime areas; consensual, 
community focused planning outcomes; and  
well designed, viable, sustainable developments.  
in addition, the Group has successfully partnered 
with the public and private sector to bring forward 
sites and projects in its operating regions across  
the southern half of the country. 
in this light, we have welcomed the Government’s 
presumption in favour of sustainable development  
and the measures taken not only to kickstart 
housing development, but also the intention  
to simplify planning processes and reduce the 
regulatory burden. in the Board’s view, the 
streamlined planning framework currently 
proposed is much needed. We are not calling for 
deregulation, but rather for clarity on the standards 
that should apply and a means to a resolution of 
conflicting regulations that can affect the quality, 
viability and delivery of residential development. 
While acknowledging that the Group has 
successfully negotiated significant financial  
hurdles over the last two years with the help  
of its shareholders and lenders, the Board  
remains alert to economic uncertainty in the 
Eurozone and globally. in addition, consumer 
confidence continues to fluctuate and mortgage 
availability still constrains the market. The Board 
continues to exercise effective control through a 
robust governance framework that provides the 
necessary oversight of decision making in land 
acquisition, planning and project delivery.  
The outcome is an extremely strong land bank  
and development pipeline.
i am grateful to the Board for their continued  
support and effectiveness. The senior management 
have great depth of experience in the sector and  
have successfully led the Group through several 
fluctuating economic cycles. Armed with this 
knowledge and experience, i am confident in  
the Board’s ability not only to respond to future 
changes in the business environment but, also to 
exploit to the full the opportunities that an evolving 
market will bring. 
William rucker
chairman
ChAirmAN’s 
st AtemeNt
our focus on 
customers, design 
and sustainability 
creates the right 
culture of innovation 
for delivering the new 
homes in which 
today’s purchasers 
and those of tomorrow 
will want to live.
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome
