 8  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
As the Group approaches its 50
th
 anniversary in 2013, it remains  
on a trajectory of steady growth based on strong results and  
underlying business performance. 
stroNg fiNANCiAl resul ts 
from soliD fuNDAmeNt Als
This has been a very good year for crest nicholson, 
driven by a 24% increase in housing legal completions 
in the year . This growth reflects both stronger rates  
of sale and our rising number of sales outlets.
commercial revenues were broadly level with 2011, 
generated from the sale of a significant commercial 
premises at Bristol and a partnership with a major 
supermarket retailer at Milton Keynes.
This strong operational performance is reflected in 
the financial results, with revenue at £408m, up 28% 
on 2011, and operating profit at £73m, up 30%. 
operating margins at 18.0% have improved against 
the 17.7% achieved last year .
Equally pleasing was the growth in our consented 
land bank, which rose from 14,772 plots to 16,959 
plots at october 2012. A significant part of this growth 
came from the conversion of plots from the strategic 
land bank, having secured planning consent on four 
strategic land sites in the year .
in parallel with investment in the future of our 
business, we generated positive cash flow through  
the year and are going into the next financial year 
confident that our southerly geographic positioning, 
distinctive design and sustainability credentials, and 
strong partnering approach will enable us to continue 
delivering good business returns in the year ahead.
the mArKet 
Despite a difficult economic backdrop, which has put 
real incomes under pressure, the housing market has 
proved to be very resilient through the year . indeed, 
our overall sales rates were stronger this year than in 
2011, notwithstanding some softness around the time 
of the Jubilee celebrations in June and again during 
the London olympics in the summer . 
As a developer in the southern half of the country, 
crest nicholson has its operations in regions that 
typically have better employment prospects and 
higher earnings than the national average, and this 
correlation serves the business well in more difficult 
markets. in these parts of the country the greatest 
imbalance exists between housing demand and 
supply, which, all other things being equal, should 
provide support for prices.
The constrained level of mortgage lending continues 
to be the greatest barrier to an improved level of 
participation in the housing market. As a group,  
we have done much this year to engage with the 
Government and government sponsored schemes to 
try to stimulate house building and house purchases. 
We remain hopeful that such support will be effective 
in improving access to the housing market for those 
who aspire to own their home.
stephen stone
chief Executive
Chief eXeCutiVe’s 
reVieW 
At crest nicholson 
we believe that 
creating successful 
sustainable 
communities is not 
about bricks and 
mortar, but people.
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome 9  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
pArtNeriNg for gro Wth
our business model, page 17, is underpinned  
by our 50 year heritage and capitalises on our  
key strengths in targeted land acquisition, 
consensual planning success, outstanding  
design and quality delivery. 
The fact that the Group has traded very well in  
the current market is evidence of the trust we have 
built with both public and private sector partners 
who, i believe, recognise the long term value that 
flows from our approach. it has been an 
outstanding year for our land bank (especially 
strategic plots), and we have also achieved 
planning permissions and milestones on a 
number of key developments. 
Among these is Bath Riverside, which is an 
important regeneration site in the heart of  
a UnEsco World Heritage city. After a longer 
planning stage than we would have wished for,  
we have moved well into delivery at Bath, with  
142 unit completions this year . We are currently 
working to create the supporting infrastructure, 
including leisure spaces, roadways and bridges. 
other notable milestones include permissions 
obtained for 274 units at Wokingham, Berkshire 
and 1,695 units at Tadpole Farm, swindon.
At crest nicholson we believe that creating 
successful sustainable communities is not about 
bricks and mortar, but people. At centre stage are 
not only our customers, but also local authorities 
responsible for delivering new housing and local 
people, including those for whom new 
development may not always be welcome.  
our approach has always been based on clear 
interaction with all relevant groups to understand 
the spectrum of opinion and interests. 
industry leading knowledge in planning,  
design, sustainable construction and regulatory 
compliance is not enough on its own. We also 
bring the mindset and skills to facilitate honest 
engagement, which requires a commitment to 
build relationships; to listen and respond genuinely 
and to help create and implement a shared vision 
in tune with local needs and expectations – always 
accepting that not everyone can be satisfied. 
We take great pains to go the extra mile by openly 
sharing our senior talent and expertise with local 
authorities and other stakeholders – often in 
person, with sleeves rolled up, helping to work 
through possibilities and challenges. in April we 
held one such Vision Workshop with planning 
officers, local members and county councillors 
from Runnymede to invite their input in identifying 
the key themes for a new community at our site at 
Longcross. This is part of an ongoing process and 
we will present the progress we have made to 
them early next year . 
uNit CompletioNs 
this yeAr A t  
BAth riVersiDe
Bath riverside, Bath
142
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome 10  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
supportiNg AND  
iNCreAsiNg DeliVery
it is the strength and depth of talent from senior 
management to apprentice level that inspires 
confidence in the Group’s capacity to deliver a  
strategy for growth, and a managed increase  
in output over the next three to four years. 
cost effective, quality delivery is essential.  
The Government itself recognises the social 
imperative for new housing, as well as the economic 
impetus that comes from it. The Home Builders 
Federation (HBF) reports that every home built 
creates 1.5 full time jobs, plus up to four times  
that number in the supply chain, meaning that for 
every £1 spent, an estimated £2.84 of wider economic 
activity is generated.
As a group, we have welcomed central and local 
government commitment on the housing growth 
agenda and have successfully bid for opportunities 
including Get Britain Building, which has enabled  
us to bring forward seven schemes representing  
709 new homes. We have also remained steadfast  
in helping first time buyers by supporting government 
backed shared equity schemes including FirstBuy  
and HomeBuy Direct, and remain committed to 
supporting the joint industry government initiative 
newBuy, helping to bridge the deposit gap.
is Also the  
first iNgreDieNt 
iN CreA tiNg  
A leg ACy
of VAlue
gooD 
DesigN
Kings gate, Birmingham
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome 11  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
operA tioNAl highlights  
AND ChAlleNges
Design excellence is a key differentiator for  
crest nicholson and a notable example is  
Rowan Park, Merton which was Project Winner  
in the Housing Design Awards 2012. Good design  
is also the first ingredient in creating a legacy  
of value. i am reminded of this when i look at  
Port Marine, Portishead where the masterplan we 
first developed 10 years ago has delivered delightful 
homes and high quality public space enhanced  
by distinctive sculpture, proving that good design 
stands the test of time. it is equally true that urban 
planning and design must continue to move 
forward, and for this reason, we are pleased to be 
working in collaboration with the Town and country 
Planning Association to explore how we embed 
Garden city principles into our future developments. 
We are applying our ethos equally in London.  
our London operations are based on a model of 
prime site acquisition, an unwavering commitment  
to quality design and build, and an ability to bring sites 
forward efficiently through smart, lean processes. 
A highly skilled team with a passion for the capital 
is a significant factor in meeting the challenges  
and constraints inherent in London development. 
Quality and excellence are just as sought after  
by buyers in the capital as anywhere and the very 
robust sales of our elegant, functional apartments 
at ixia in shoreditch are proof of this. 
our focus on customers has remained as strong  
as ever and in March 2012 we maintained our 5 star 
rating in the HBF industry wide independent survey. 
The results from our own customer satisfaction 
survey show we have maintained a high level of 
performance, but have scope to do more to reach 
our own stretching targets. 
sustainability is another core value that threads 
itself through every part of our process. The Group 
has remained a consistent high performer in the 
next Generation industry benchmark for the last 
five years, through our focus on high standards of 
governance, sustainable delivery and transparent 
reporting to globally recognised standards. 
Fundamentally, the sustainability of our business  
and our developments centres on future thinking  
and innovation, which are essential to meeting 
major environmental challenges including climate 
change and resource depletion.
We continue to anticipate and prepare for the 
Government’s target for all new homes to be  
‘zero carbon’ by 2016. The award winning AiMc4 
consortium homes built at noble Park in Epsom 
have taken us well along the road to delivering  
well designed low carbon homes cost effectively 
through a ‘fabric first’ approach that provides  
highly energy efficient dwellings driven by  
customer needs.
This year we have challenged ourselves to look 
even further to the future by engaging with external 
experts to develop a 10 year sustainability strategy 
for the Group. it will focus on long term value 
creation in the context of emerging trends and 
issues including evolving society, customer needs 
and product design. This will deliver a sustainable 
business model, capable of delivering value now 
and into the future for customers, wider society  
and shareholders. 
of our Customers 
sAiD they W oulD 
reCommeND us  
to A frieND
9/10
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome Apprentice day at Noble park, epsom
A VisioN  
thA t iNspires  
A geNerA tioN 14  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
AppreNtiCes
Are W orKiNg 
With us 
 
(7.6% of our W orKforCe)
45
AWArDs AND reCogNitioN
housing Design Awards Project Winner 2012: Rowan Park, Mitcham
housebuilder Awards 2012 Best Low or Zero carbon Development –  
AiMc4 houses at noble Park, Epsom
hBf Annual Customer 
satisfaction survey
5 stars for customer service in March 2012,  
for the third consecutive year
Next generation sustainability 
Benchmark
second position among sustainability leaders  
in our industry, for the fifth consecutive year .
NhBC health and safety commended and Highly commended awards  
for our employees in health and safety leadership,  
engagement and on site management
NhBC pride in the job six of our site managers achieved Quality Awards
NhBC regional Regional award winner multi-storey category:  
Terry Huntingdon, Kaleidoscope, cambridge
pension Quality mark The leading standard recognised by government  
and the HR/pensions industry
Apprentice day at Noble park, epsom
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome 15  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
AN employer of ChoiCe
Without our people none of this would be possible 
and i am grateful for their hard work and dedication, 
which has been recognised once again this year  
in several external commendations in the nHBc 
awards, the industry’s leading benchmark for site 
management and health and safety leadership. 
We aim to be a responsible and ethical employer  
that offers everyone the opportunity to excel in a 
fair and safe environment. i am determined that  
we should maintain and strengthen our skillbase 
at all levels across the Group and develop our 
capacity for the future. once again, we have 
welcomed graduates and apprentices to the Group 
this year and invested in high quality training and 
career development. it is particularly pleasing  
to see one of our young female apprentices who 
came on board in 2011 moving on with us  
to become a trainee site manager . 
As the Board director responsible for occupational 
health and safety, i am pleased that our Annual 
injury incidence Rate has outperformed our sector 
peers and the construction sector as a whole. 
Disappointingly the reduction in 2012 has not 
matched the exceedingly good performance  
we have made annually since we base lined our 
data in 2008. We remain committed to continuous 
improvement and to that end we have reinforced 
our Group health and safety team with three 
appointments. Each of these roles combine  
health, safety and environmental responsibilities, 
reflecting our integrated approach to preventing 
and managing risk on our sites.
outlooK 
in the near term, our business is in good shape  
to continue growing volumes, as we open an 
increasing number of sales outlets and the new 
London division delivers its first legal completions.
Public policy measures to support the housing 
sector and to help first time buyers are providing 
useful support, but activity is likely to be 
comparatively subdued while mortgage  
lending remains constrained. 
We will continue to work with all our partners  
to deliver well designed and sustainable homes 
that delight our customers. in the longer term, the 
structural imbalance between supply and demand  
is likely to provide strong support for our business. 
nurturing existing talent within our workforce  
and developing the skillbase of people joining  
our apprentice and graduate schemes will remain  
a fundamental part of our strategy to support  
further growth. 
With a high quality land bank and the team to 
deliver the schemes upon which crest nicholson 
has built a proud 50 year reputation, we look 
forward to the future with confidence.
stephen stone
chief Executive
reDuC tioN 
iN ANNuAl 
iNjury rA te 
siNCe 2008
48%
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome 16  DiREc ToRs’ REPoRT & A ccoUnTs 2012
the Crest 
DiffereNCe
crest nicholson has developed a focused business 
model emphasising customer led design and 
sustainability in the planning and delivery of 
schemes, irrespective of size and location.  
our delivery encompasses major mixed-use 
projects through to smaller housing developments 
in the southern half of England. 
Customers
Providing an outstanding 
customer experience 
from start to finish, 
delivering quality homes 
and high levels of 
customer satisfaction.
DesigN
Reinforcing an 
aspirational, design led 
approach to create 
vibrant, mixed-used 
communities where 
people want to live,  
work, learn and play.
sust AiNABility
integrating the three 
pillars of social, 
economic and 
environmental 
sustainability to deliver  
a legacy of enduring 
value to communities 
and to the business.
Long term value creation
DesigN
Cust omer s
sustAiNABil it y
our focus
our expertise
success
our continuing journey
the Crest 
DiffereNCe
Business Review Governance Financials Welcome
