 CRESTON plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
In our second full year of trading as a marketing
services group, Creston has continued its strategy of
organic and acquisitive growth in tightly focused
marketing services sectors. In December 2002 Creston
made its third acquisition supporting this strategy. The
other Group companies continue to deliver organic
growth well above the relevant market sector average.
RESULTS
Group turnover was £18.6 million (2002: £9.8 million),
an increase of 90 per cent on the prior year, and gross
profit was £6.7 million (2002: £3.4 million) representing
a gross margin of 36 per cent. These results reflect not
only contributions from The Real Adventure Marketing
Communications Limited (“TRA”) for a full year and
EMO Group Limited (“EMO”) for four months, but they
also include strong organic growth by the Marketing
Sciences Group (“MSL”). Profit before taxation for the
year was £0.9 million (2002: £0.2 million), an increase of
over three times. This also reflects the increasing
operating leverage of spreading the head office costs
over an increasing number of operating companies.
Basic earnings per share were 6.38 pence (2002: 1.23
pence), some five times that of the previous year.
Annualised turnover for the Group is approximately £24m
and annualised operating profits of the operating
subsidiaries are approximately £2.5m before central
overheads.
DIVIDEND 
In line with the stated strategy of pursuing a progressive
dividend policy, the Board proposes to increase the
dividend for this year to 1.4 pence per share (2002: 0.7
pence per share). The cost to the Group of this
dividend is £157,000.
STRATEGY 
Creston’s strategy is to build an international marketing
services group which reflects the way the market is moving,
namely to having a one-to-one relationship with customers.
This strategy will be achieved by acquiring companies with a
record of strong organic growth and management who are
committed to further growth under the Creston “umbrella”.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Our most recent acquisition was EMO, a group based in
Swindon and Bristol specialising in channel marketing, which
was completed in December 2002 and is already earnings
enhancing. Following this acquisition, Creston comprises
three marketing services companies: MSL – providing
quantitative and qualitative market research;TRA – providing
direct marketing and customer relationship marketing
(“CRM”) and EMO – providing marketing communications
and channel marketing. All of these companies have
demonstrated consistent organic growth over the year
under review despite difficult trading conditions.
Creston has focused on making acquisitions in resilient
sectors, hence its robust performance has been derived not CRESTON plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5
just from acquisitions but also from strong organic growth:
• MSL’s organic growth in operating profits has been 32 per
cent. Its resilience is in no small part due to a high
visibility of earnings from clients like Tesco and Unilever;
• TRA’s organic growth in operating profits has been 30 per
cent. Its resilience lies both in its high repeat revenues
and durable clients like Lloyds Black Horse, Pfizer and
Cow & Gate; and 
• EMO’s pro forma annualised growth in operating profits
has been 103 per cent for continuing businesses. Its
resilience lies in a high level of contracted revenue,
especially from the BMW Group, which includes BMW
(GB), MINI and Rolls Royce.
In view of this encouraging performance Creston’s long
term strategy remains unchanged, namely to become a
major player in marketing services by building on our
domestic base and by expanding overseas to become an
international company in the medium term.
EMPLOYEES 
It has been a further year of growth and the Group now has
210 employees, compared to 156 last year, in six locations in
the United Kingdom. I would like to thank the directors and
staff both new and old for their continued hard work, so self
evident with the excellent results achieved.
The one sad event this year has been the sudden death
of  Vincent Moran, a non-executive director of Creston,
on 10 August 2002. He was a strong supporter of
Creston’s refocus to a marketing services group and
was highly valued, not just for his business advice, but as
a friend. Our best wishes go to his widow Anne and
their children.
OUTLOOK 
We continue to actively identify and review acquisitions
that meet Creston’s criteria. Specifically, we have
identified complementary opportunities within market
research and marketing communications, including direct
marketing and CRM.We will bring specific proposals to
shareholders at the appropriate time. The creation of
synergies across the Group in terms of additional
income and efficiencies has begun to bear fruit. In spite
of the continued challenging economic environment,
Creston has begun the new financial year with a strong
performance from all subsidiaries. The Creston model
has proved to be robust and the Board believes that the
outlook for the Group remains highly positive.
I look forward to building on this year’s success, both
organically and through further acquisition.
David Marshall
Chairman
13 June 2003 
