 CRESTON plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW
The year to 31 March 2003 was Creston’s second full
year as a marketing services group. The Group has had
a very successful year and has achieved its operational
and financial objectives and the results confirm the good
progress that has been made. Both the main operating
companies, MSL and TRA, produced excellent results
demonstrating significant organic growth. EMO, acquired
in December 2002, also had a very encouraging first
four months as part of the Group.
The performance of the operating companies was
achieved in difficult market conditions and the Group
has considerably out-performed the marketing services
sector as a whole.
STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES
Creston’s strategy remains to build the Group both
organically and through selective acquisitions to become
a substantial diversified marketing services group. It is
the Board’s objective that each element of the Group
will reflect the continued trend away from mass
marketing towards one-to-one marketing between
clients and customers.
The Board believes an important part of its strategy is
to build a broadly based group and to avoid over-
concentration in any one sector, thereby minimising risk.
At the current stage of development, it is the Board’s
intention to continue to avoid very cyclical sectors such
as above-the-line advertising. However, we will consider
acquisitions of companies that have demonstrated
strong organic growth in cyclical sectors. The Group will
consider potential acquisitions particularly in marketing
services sectors such as market research, direct
marketing, CRM and digital marketing.
Creston is committed to harnessing the entrepreneurial
skills of the vendors and senior management of its
operating subsidiaries. Creston encourages them to
deliver continued organic growth through exploitation
of their existing niche market positions and through
leveraging cross-selling opportunities that exist within
the Group. Creston is achieving this objective by
providing appropriate levels of incentivisation through
earn-out targets, payment of acquisition consideration
through both ordinary shares and cash, and competitive
remuneration packages.
CRESTON OPERATING BOARD
Creston has created an Operating Board, which reports
to the Board on a monthly basis, to review overall
strategy, performance, and acquisition opportunities and
to create synergy opportunities between the
subsidiaries. This is the key forum for the operational
management of the Group and the Board believes that
it is a vital element in harnessing the entrepreneurial
talent of the subsidiary managements’ expertise and
experience. CRESTON plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 7
TRADING IN THE YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003
As reported in the Chairman’s Statement, turnover for the
Group increased by 90 per cent compared to last year.
Operating profit increased by 307 per cent in the year to
31 March 2003. Each of the main operating subsidiaries
has generated a net contribution and all are budgeted to
do so in the forthcoming year.
MARKETING SCIENCES 
Turnover for MSL was £6.6 million (2002: £6.0 million),
a 10 per cent increase on the prior year, a particularly
strong performance when compared to the British
Market Research Association’s (“BMRA”) reported
growth of 2.6 per cent for 2002. Operating profit
increased by 32 per cent to £0.83 million (2002: £0.60
million).
MSL’s performance was underpinned by the fact that
over two-thirds of its turnover has been generated by
repeat business from existing clients. MSL provides a
wide range of quantitative and qualitative research
services to clients such as Tesco, Unilever and 
Kimberly-Clark.
Since the appointment of a new business development
director, MSTS is currently generating record levels of
new business enquiries. The Board anticipates that
MSTS will deliver further profitable growth in the year
to March 2004.
The Board has also taken the decision to close the US
joint venture,Visualiser Llc, because trading conditions
in the USA have remained extremely difficult. This will
affect the trading performance of MSL positively in
2004. The Visualizer intellectual property rights remain
with MSL.
THE REAL ADVENTURE 
Turnover for TRA was £8.6 million with operating profit
of £0.98 million. Although no directly comparable
figures are available because the agency was acquired in
November 2001 and its year end moved to 31 March,
proforma year-on-year turnover growth was 22 per
cent and operating profit growth was 30 per cent.
Repeat income from TRA’s client base represented 85
per cent of turnover, primarily a result of TRA’s close
working relationships with its clients and
implementation of proven strategies in direct and
customer relationship marketing. During the year, the
company recruited a further 10 employees. Significant
new work has been won from Pfizer Consumer
Healthcare, a new CRM campaign has been launched
for Cow & Gate, and the level and breadth of
contracted work for Lloyds TSB Black Horse Finance
has seen a significant increase with two new areas of
that business having been competitively pitched for and
won during the year. CRESTON plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW continued
EMO
Creston acquired EMO on 2 December 2002 and the
results therefore reflect only four months’ trading.
Turnover for that period was £1.9 million and operating
profit was £0.23 million. Proforma year-on-year operating
profit growth excluding discontinued businesses was 103
per cent.
EMO manages all the UK dealer and sales channel
marketing programmes for BMW (GB). This work
includes both the MINI brands and the newly launched
Rolls Royce and covers all areas of automotive
marketing including new and used cars, servicing, parts
and financing. The EMO Group has also undertaken
significant work for Andreas Stihl in helping to increase
brand awareness and sales in the UK over the last five
years, in which time its sales have almost doubled. Sky
Rock Communications Limited (“Sky Rock”), another
member of the EMO Group, provides creative and
technical support to electronic communications
programmes on behalf of EMO’s clients. Other notable
clients of EMO include Intel Corporation (UK) and
George Wimpey.
EMO has shown consistent earnings growth over the
last three years and the Board has been encouraged by
their trading performance since acquisition.
OUTLOOK
I am pleased to report that the new financial year has
started well with performance comfortably ahead of
budget.
With the acquisition of EMO, the synergy opportunities
within the Group have increased. In particular,
opportunities exist to facilitate client referrals and
create joint products as well as to leverage the Group’s
specialist marketing skills within each business to
generate cross-selling opportunities. Referral
opportunities are already being seen across the Group
including clients such as Cow & Gate, PHH Arval,
Scottish Courage and Coca-Cola.
It is the Board’s intention to continue its acquisitions
strategy throughout the current financial year. However,
we believe that organic performance, including a full
year of EMO, will produce strong growth.
The Board believes that in just two years Creston has
established a significant platform within the marketing
services and communications sector to achieve
sustainable future growth and is confident of the future
prospects of the Group.
Don Elgie 
Chief Executive 
13 June 2003 
