 Chief Executive’s review
4
The heart and soul of the company is 
creativity and innovation.
Robert Iger
Depilene Retards hair growth – new in antiperspirants in 2009. 5
Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive
Full Year Results
For the full year, we increased continuing pre-tax 
profit before exceptionals by 61.8% to a record 
£98.4m. This was achieved by the hard work of the 
whole team in completing the integration of Uniqema, 
in the timely disposal of non-core businesses and our 
relentless focus on pricing in the face of rampant raw 
material cost inflation. In our Consumer Care business 
we maintained our target margins and improved 
turnover by 28.0%. Innovation is the key driver in 
these attractive markets, coupled with the unrivalled 
quality of our product offering and the strong 
technical sales and marketing teams across the world.
The result from Industrial Specialities was even 
further ahead, with profits up from £8.9m to £24.8m. 
As discussed elsewhere, some of this increase came 
from the abnormally high glycerine prices, which have 
now fallen back. Also, most of the markets served 
by this business were substantially depressed in the 
second half of 2008.
Current and Future Market Trends 
Consumer Care
In spite of strong macro economic headwinds, sales 
rose 28.0% in 2008, with the strongest growth in the 
fourth quarter. Within Consumer Care, there are four 
sectors – Personal Care, Health Care, Home Care 
and Crop Care.
Personal Care
The main drivers of the continued global growth 
in this market are vanity and an ageing population. 
Other major drivers include a move to “naturals” and 
ever more stringent quality standards. The industry 
has a growing appetite for innovation and Croda is 
recognised as a world leader in speciality ingredients 
for the whole range of Personal Care products. 
Added impetus to growth is provided by the rapid 
evolution of developing markets such as Asia and 
Latin America. We expect these factors to continue 
to underpin growth in global personal care markets 
for the foreseeable future. Croda’s ingredients 
represent a very small proportion of the final selling 
price of a personal care product, but they are often 
the reason the product has an effect and, perhaps, 
more importantly, sells. The pipeline of new products 
continues to grow from our research teams across 
the world, which gives us great confidence that we 
can maintain our position of leadership in this vibrant 
market.
2008 was the most tumultuous and difficult year in living memory for the 
global chemical industry. The first half was characterised by unprecedented 
rises in raw material and energy costs. The second half saw a precipitous 
fall in demand in markets related to vehicles, consumer durables and 
construction. T en years ago we decided to focus on markets that had 
intrinsic growth in good times and bad, and it is this strategic focus that has 
enabled Croda to weather the storms and produce record sales and profits.
40% reduction of hair after  
a 2-month treatment Chief Executive’s review
6
Health Care
The main drivers in this market are the developed 
world’s increasing focus on well-being, the ageing 
population demographic and a move to “natural” self 
medication. These factors have meant high growth 
rates and we expect these to continue even during a 
global slowdown. Croda’s two main areas of expertise 
are in excipients and in essential fatty acids. Excipients 
are the vehicles for topical medicaments which may 
also aid recovery, such as high purity lanolin in wound 
care. Croda is also a world leader in the production 
of high purity essential fatty acids, such as Omega 3 
lipids for nutritional supplements and, increasingly, for 
therapeutic treatment of heart and inflammatory 
problems.
Home Care
The global market for household products has seen 
many years of growth. The market is driven by a 
growing global population, hygiene and pride in the 
appearance of one’s home. Croda provides natural 
solutions to a market that is moving inexorably 
towards more biodegradable and concentrated 
products with lower environmental impact. Innovation 
is at the forefront of the major household product 
companies and Croda’s historic expertise in natural 
ingredients makes us an ideal partner in formulating 
products ranging from fabric softeners to toilet 
cleaners.
Crop Care
The key drivers in this market are the growing food 
demands of a rapidly expanding global population, 
coupled with the pressure on agrochemical 
companies to constantly reduce their environmental 
impact. Croda is a world leader in the design and 
production of adjuvants and vehicles for a variety of 
agrochemical actives and works with all the major 
companies in the market. This was one of our fastest 
growing sectors in 2008 and the market is expected 
to show good progress in the future.
Industrial Specialities
The main parts of this business are Polymer Additives, 
Lubricant Additives and Coatings Additives plus 
a number of smaller market areas such as water 
treatment.
These businesses are more exposed to the industries 
most affected by the current recession. Demand in 
the second half of 2008 was reduced and we expect 
this to continue in the first half of 2009. In spite of the 
second half severe downturn in the more industrial 
markets, the business overall grew sales by 11.9% in 
2008. Sales in the fourth quarter actually declined by 
15.7%. Our strategy has been to reduce our exposure 
to the more commoditised products in the portfolio 
and the recent market shocks have convinced us that 
we are moving in the right direction. 
Never before in history has 
innovation offered promise of so 
much to so many in so short a time.
Bill Gates 7
Vegetable Omega 3 The value to human health of Omega 3 supplements is now accepted by the 
worldwide medical profession. Until now, the only viable source of these fatty acids was marine oil. 
Croda has patented Omega 3 products derived from echium oil, a plant seed oil. This has taken many 
years to commercialise through crop development and larger scale planting. 8
LoVoCoat A green innovation for the surface coatings industry which allows the incorporation of 
more water, resulting in more environmentally friendly paints. 9
Chief Executive’s review
These operations are more 
exposed to global GDP trends, but 
our focus on innovating the product 
range and on more speciality 
products has helped soften the 
blow of the global downturn. 
Operating profits for 2008 in 
Industrial Specialities almost trebled 
and, although boosted to a certain 
extent by favourable glycerine 
pricing, this result is a testament to 
our plan to improve the product 
mix and adhere strictly to a price 
before volume policy.
We expect these markets to remain 
depressed during the first half of 
2009. We will continue the planned 
restructuring in this business to 
ensure its exposure to the more 
commodity oleochemicals markets 
is substantially reduced.
Strategy
Our strategy has been unchanged for ten years. We 
aim to be a leading, independent, global speciality 
chemicals company. We only invest in businesses 
if they can be truly global, can create innovative 
technology, can operate in markets with long term 
growth significantly higher than global GDP and can 
realistically sustain high operating margins.
Our success is predicated on choosing the right 
markets and our focus markets have been selected 
based on these criteria. But choosing correctly is not 
enough. We have also invested in innovative plant and 
processes to enhance our leadership position. We 
have an innovation culture deeply embedded in the 
whole Croda organisation, especially in our Research 
teams and our global Sales and Marketing units. We 
are also innovative in our responses to the global 
challenges to society and the environment.
Our operating companies are set sales, profit growth 
and operating margin targets that form the basis of 
our budgets and strategic plans. We report annually 
on our progress against five key financial performance 
indicators:
n	 Return on sales 
n	 EPS growth 
n	 Post tax ROIC 
n	 Net debt to EBITDA 
n	 EBITDA to interest cover
Our relentless focus on our customers and on 
innovation has brought us success in the past and we 
will continue this focus to create our future success
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive
Creativity is thinking up new things. 
Innovation is doing new things.
Theodore Levitt  
