 4 4
In 2009, in 
the worst 
recession 
in living 
memory, 
Croda 
delivered a 
record  
pre-tax 
profit
Mike Humphrey  
Group Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review
A key feature of the Croda business model is the ability to 
sell thousands of different products to thousands of different 
customers all over the world. Our relentless focus on 
innovation in specialities has given us the ability to get true value 
for our products.
Over the last decade, in good times and 
bad times, Croda has achieved pre-tax 
profit growth every year. In 2009, in 
the worst recession in living memory, 
Croda delivered a record pre-tax profit 
of £106.4m, up 10.5% (2008: £96.3m). 
This performance followed a significant 
increase in pre-tax profit in 2008 and is a 
testament to the rigorous adherence to 
our strategy and the execution ability of 
our high quality team around the world. 
We continued to reshape the business 
during the year and maintain our strict 
policy of ‘quality of business over volume’. 
In the first half of the year, demand in 
some industrial markets was down over 
50% but, as a result of our value added 
strategy, the full year increase in pre-tax 
profit was delivered.
During the year we closed our loss-
making commodity oleochemical factory 
at Bromborough. We also ceased 
production at our Wilton site following 
Dow’s decision to close a vital raw 
material site in the UK. Almost all of 
Wilton’s output has been transferred 
to other Croda sites around the world. 
We would like to thank the departing 
workforces of these sites for their hard 
work and professionalism during what has 
been a very difficult time for both them 
and their families.
In Consumer Care, we increased our 
margins to 22.4%, increased sales by 
11.8% and improved operating profits 
by 17.2% to £104.9m. In a time of deep 
global recession, we increased sales to 
all of our key global accounts in Personal 
Care. 
In Industrial Specialities, sales were down 
by 9.0% to £448.5m due to the severe 
downturn in demand in many markets. 
There were healthy signs of recovery 
later in 2009 and operating profits were a 
respectable £15.0m for the full year.
In addition to the outstanding pre-tax 
profit outcome, we had an impressive 
cash flow which resulted in debt 
reduction of £109.6m to £288.5m, 
including currency translation benefits. 
This was a notable performance in 
tough conditions and in a year where 
we invested £39.8m in new plant and 
equipment.
Performance and Prospects
Consumer Care
There are three main business areas 
within the Consumer Care segment: 
Personal Care, Health Care and Crop 
Care. In 2009, sales increased by 11.8% to 
£467.7m (2008: £418.4m) and operating 
profits increased 17.2% to £104.9m 
(2008: £89.5m).
The macro trends in Personal Care 
fit very well with Croda’s innovation 
platform - natural, renewable raw 
materials, vanity and an ageing, but 
increasingly affluent, population. Croda 
is recognised as the world leader in 
speciality ingredients for Personal Care. 
The total market for ingredients is over 
£4.5 billion and is extremely fragmented, 
with hundreds of suppliers. The market 
grows at about one and a half to two 
times global gross domestic product 
(GDP), with higher growth in the rapidly 
developing markets such as Asia and Latin 
America.  5 5
Essenskin
TM 
& Dynalift
TM
 are 
used in Dr. Brandt’s time 
arrest v-zone neck cream 
to help firm and tighten the 
neck and décolletage. 6 6
Herbs of Gold in Australia 
use Croda’s Incromega oils 
in their Omega 3 products. 
The value to human health 
of Omega 3 supplements 
is now accepted by 
the worldwide medical 
profession. 7 7
Normally, we supply a very small 
percentage of the total raw material in 
any formulation. It may be a small part, 
but it is often the vital part that makes 
the product work and supports the 
essential marketing claims. The output 
of new products from our innovation 
centres across the world continues to 
increase to meet the ever changing 
demands of this fast moving, vibrant 
industry. We remain confident of 
continued progress in this exciting market. 
In 2009, strong growth was seen in South 
America and Asia, boosting more modest 
uplifts in North America and Europe.
Health Care is one of our fastest growing 
business areas. Croda’s essential fatty 
acids (EFAs) and excipients are designed 
to meet the market’s growing appetite 
for natural, self-medication and an ageing 
population’s desire for extended health 
and well-being. This market continued to 
grow rapidly in 2009 and we expect high 
levels of growth to continue. The lipids 
(EFAs) market is growing at 15 to 25% 
per year and the excipients market grows 
at approximately 4% a year. Croda is a 
world leader in the production of super 
high purity essential fatty acids such as 
Omega 3s, which are finding increasing 
use in the treatment of a number of 
inflammatory conditions and also in 
heart disease medication. Excipients 
are valuable vehicles which carry active 
ingredients used in topical treatments. 
Like high purity lanolin in wound 
treatment creams, they can often have 
a synergistic and beneficial effect on the 
efficacy of the active ingredient. Strong 
growth was seen in this sector in both 
2008 and 2009.
Since 2006, Crop Care has also been 
one of our fastest growing businesses. 
Our target market is worth over £500m 
a year.  After a strong 2008 and first 
quarter of 2009, sales in the rest of the 
year were down compared to 2008. This 
was due to adverse climatic conditions in 
a number of geographies, which disrupted 
the planting cycle and reduced demand 
for all agrochemicals. The mega trend of 
a rapidly growing global population and a 
need for a parallel increase in crop yields, 
combined with a desire to constantly 
reduce environmental impact, gives 
us every confidence that high growth 
rates will return to this market in 2010 
and subsequent years. Croda produces 
adjuvants, vehicles and seed coating 
ingredients, which are used by a growing 
number of companies in many countries.
Industrial Specialities
There are five main business areas 
in our Industrial Specialities segment: 
Polymer Additives, Lubricant Additives, 
Home Care, Coatings and Polymers and 
Geo Tech. Overall, these markets were 
severely hit by the recession in the first 
six months of 2009, with appreciable 
recovery in the second half. Sales were 
down by 9.0% to £448.5m (2008: 
£492.7m) and continuing operating profit 
fell by 35.1% to £15.0m (2008: £23.1m). 
In the second half, year on year profits 
were up 120.3% on a sales increase of 
2.5%. Lower commodity prices and the 
absence of the previous year’s £8.2m 
windfall glycerine profit, combined with 
the lack of demand in ultimate consumer 
markets led to the overall decline in 
profits. Lower overall GDP figures had 
a much smaller effect. Our focus on 
growing the speciality portfolio and 
reducing our dependence on commodity 
fatty acids and glycerine leads us to be 
confident of future profit growth in this 
area.
Chief Executive’s review 8 8
Chief Executive’s review
In Polymer Additives, Croda is the 
global market leader in slip additives for 
polyolefins and is very strong in a number 
of additives such as anti-static agents for 
a range of other plastics. In spite of the 
recession, sales in this sector were at the 
same level as the previous year.
The Lubricant Additives business area is 
ultimately exposed to the automotive 
and engineering sectors, which virtually 
stopped in the first half of 2009. Sales 
were well down year on year, but recent 
months have shown increasing demand 
for our environmentally benign additives. 
The desire for less harmful lubricants and 
reduced fuel consumption are trends that 
match our innovation programme and 
we expect that the market will have an 
increasing demand for greener products.
Sales in Home Care were slightly ahead 
of 2008, as the market increased its 
appetite for our more environmentally 
friendly ingredients.
Progress on transforming our Coatings 
and Polymers business from one that 
relies on commodities to a more dynamic, 
focused speciality portfolio was slowed 
by the recession. Sales were down and 
customer development on our exciting 
new products to reduce Volatile Organic 
Compounds and mitigate environmental 
impact also slowed. We are seeing good 
signs of a turnaround as end market 
demand returns to a more normal level.
Geo Tech is a new business area, formed 
to take advantage of our technology 
advantage in mining chemicals, oil field 
chemicals and water treatment. These are 
rapidly growing markets driven by the 
need to maximise resource extraction 
and provide clean water for a growing 
population.
In all our business areas, we have sales 
of commodity products such as fatty 
acids and glycerine, where we have no 
real pricing power. The margins are low 
compared to our speciality products, 
though in some cases we sell low 
value products which are produced 
as by-products when we make other 
higher value chemicals. We continue to 
reduce the impact of commodities on 
our business. We have sold businesses 
(Chicago and Klang), restructured (the 
closure of Bromborough) and walked 
away from unprofitable product streams. 
Continuing turnover of commodities 
in 2009 was £135.8m compared to 
£165.1m in 2008. We cannot move out of 
commodity products completely, but we 
will continue to explore ways of reducing 
our exposure to them.
Atmer 7325, Croda’s easy to use 
additive concentrate containing a 
synergistic mixture of anti-static 
agents, is used in plastic shampoo 
bottles. It reduces static on the 
surface of the bottles which in 
turn reduces the amount of dust 
pick-up, giving more aesthetically 
pleasing products on store 
shelves. 9 9
Perfad fuel additives, based 
on renewable sustainable 
raw materials, are used in 
Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel 
across Europe and North 
America to reduce friction 
and prolong fuel pump life. 10 10
Croda offers an 
innovative solution for the 
enhancement of sugar cane 
production. Atlox Semkote 
is a polymer range that 
enables cost-effective seed 
coating. 11 11
Chief Executive’s review
Strategy
The core principles of Croda’s strategy 
have remained valid since 1999. We test 
them every year and every year we have 
found them to be a solid framework 
for successful growth. Our aim is to be 
a leading, independent, global speciality 
chemical company. We will only invest in 
businesses, current and future, that can:
n be truly global 
n create profitable innovation 
n operate in end markets that have long  
 term growth well above global GDP 
n realistically sustain high operating 
 margins.
Our focus on markets and market drivers 
means we are well aligned with the 
mega trends which will shape the future 
consumer and industrial markets. Trends 
like an ageing population, health and 
well-being, sustainability and the correct 
use of renewable resources present great 
challenges and even greater opportunities. 
Croda’s culture of pragmatic innovation 
in every aspect of the business, not just 
in product development, means we are 
well-placed to be a truly leading speciality 
chemicals company. We have offices and 
technical facilities in 36 countries and 
operate 19 state of the art factories 
across Europe, Asia and the Americas. 
Through this network we are able to 
match and, in many instances, exceed our 
customers’ rapid globalisation.
Our operating companies are set sales, 
profit growth and operating margin 
targets that form the basis of our budgets 
and strategic plans. We report annually 
on our progress against five key financial 
performance indicators:
n Return on sales 
n EPS growth 
n Post tax ROIC 
n Net debt to EBITDA 
n EBITDA to interest cover.
Summary
Croda is a truly global company with 
less than 7% of its sales in the UK. Our 
customer focused business model has 
been the basis of our success for many 
years. We will continue to increase this 
focus to create our future success.
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive
Croda is a 
truly global 
company 
