 4
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
 
Our Strategy
We focus on niche markets driven by 
strong, positive megatrends in beauty 
and ageing, health and wellbeing, 
and the increasing importance of 
sustainability and environmental 
protection. These factors, coupled 
with the strong structural drivers 
of population growth, increasing 
disposable incomes and, ultimately, 
growing consumer spending, give me 
great confidence that the core markets 
in which we operate will continue to 
grow.
In today’s world, people not only want 
to look and feel good, but increasingly 
want to use renewable raw materials 
that combine great performance with 
excellent sustainability credentials. The 
trend towards sustainable products in 
our industrial markets is also growing 
rapidly. Our customers want improved 
performance from products which are 
also safe to use and can meet the ever 
increasing regulatory demands imposed 
on specific industries and in different 
countries around the world.
With our continued focus on innovation, 
coupled with approximately 70% 
of our raw materials coming from 
natural sources, Croda is well placed 
to take advantage of these drivers. 
We are continuing to drive top line 
growth through successful new product 
development, moving even closer to 
our customers and increasing our focus 
on faster growing emerging economies, 
particularly in Asia and Latin America. 
Within our industrial businesses, we are 
replicating this approach to significantly 
increase sales of speciality products, 
adopting the same emphasis on niche 
markets, differentiated technologies 
and innovative marketing that we have 
applied so successfully in Consumer 
Care.
We will accelerate the capture of new 
technologies across the Group, with a 
strong focus on sustainability.
We will only invest in businesses, 
current and future, that can be truly 
global, in which we can create 
profitable innovation, that operate in 
end markets which have long term 
growth prospects well above global 
GDP , and in which we can realistically 
sustain high operating margins.
New Reporting Segments and 
Medium Term Targets
From 2012, we will change the way 
we report our sales and profits to better 
reflect the new internal management 
and business structure in place from  
1 January 2012. 
Industrial Specialities will be renamed 
Performance Technologies. Process 
Additives, previously part of Industrial 
Specialities, will in future be reported 
separately and renamed Industrial 
Chemicals. 
Chief Executive’s review 
Croda has delivered 
another year of record 
sales, profits and 
margins, despite a 
challenging economic 
environment in 2011. 
We made significant 
progress in both our 
business segments 
throughout the year and 
2012 has started well. 
This continued strong 
performance underlines 
the resilience of our  
unique and highly 
innovative business  
model which is focused 
on fast-growing niche 
markets and high 
margin businesses 
where we can utilise 
our global reach.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive
The business moved forward in all our four 
operating regions 5
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
This will result in three segments for 
reporting purposes:
Consumer Care (unchanged), 
comprising Personal Care, Health Care 
and Crop Care.
This segment accounts for 31% of 
Group volumes, 54% of turnover and 
72% of operating profit. Sales are 
driven by global population dynamics. 
The majority of product launches are 
patented and competition is fairly 
fragmented. Volumes are relatively 
low but margins are high, driven by 
innovation, quality and the highly 
technical nature of the products.
The segment is targeting sales growth 
of 5-10% per annum and ROS above 
25%.
Performance Technologies, comprising 
Lubricants, Coatings & Polymers, Geo 
Technologies, Polymer Additives and 
Home Care.
This segment generates 42% of Group 
volumes, 36% of turnover and 25% 
of operating profit. Sales are driven by 
product performance and the strength 
of our “green” credentials. Many, but 
not all, new product launches are 
patented. Margins are good, though not 
as high as in Consumer Care.
The segment is targeting sales growth 
of 4-8% per annum and ROS of 20%.
Industrial Chemicals produces basic 
fatty acids, glycerine and other by-
products together with our textile 
business and other industrial products. 
There are also some speciality products 
in the portfolio.
This segment accounts for 27% of 
Group volumes, 10% of turnover and 
3% of operating profit. Much of the 
volume in this business is driven by our 
activity levels elsewhere, but we have 
little pricing power and margins are 
lower than the other two sectors and 
can be erratic. Volumes are high but 
their value is relatively low.
The segment will seek to maximise 
profitability.
These segments have different 
dynamics in terms of drivers, growth 
and margins and we believe that 
managing and reporting them 
separately will permit us to maximise 
our focus and drive profitability 
improvements in all parts 
of the Group.
Business Performance and 
Prospects
Consumer Care
The sector continued to break all 
records, with sales growing by 11.2% 
to £574.3m (2010: £516.4m) and 
operating profit increasing by 27.0% 
to £173.4m (2010: £136.5m). Our ROS 
rose by 3.8 percentage points to 30.2% 
(2010: 26.4%), the first time in Croda’s 
history that ROS has exceeded 30%. It 
was particularly pleasing to see strong 
sales and profit increases in all three 
business areas throughout the year. 
Our best performance was in Health 
Care, driven primarily by very strong 
growth of our excipient business selling 
into the pharmaceutical, dermatology 
and animal health markets. During 
the year our production facility in 
Leek, Staffordshire, was successfully 
inspected by the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA). This is a really 
exciting development, which we have 
worked for 10 years to achieve, that 
gives us the ability to supply Omega-3 
into the pharmaceutical arena. 
We continue to seek new opportunities 
to expand the market for Omega-3 in 
dietary supplements and will shortly 
launch a new Incromega™ 3mulsion, 
responding to market demand for 
a tastier Omega 3 in the form of a 
concentrated, flavoured emulsion that is 
particularly well suited for consumption 
by children.
Crop Care also performed extremely 
well, particularly in Europe, the USA 
and Latin America, and especially in 
excipient and adjuvant products. We 
have successfully developed new 
polymeric surfactants for electrolyte 
tolerant systems that offer significant 
performance advantages in Crop Care 
formulations.
In recent years Croda’s operations in 
China and Taiwan have been scaled 
up with sales offices in six major cities 
employing 50 people and serving 
over 1,200 customers. The area also 
has laboratories in Guangzhou with 
facilities to perform efficacy testing and 
formulation development.
Guangzhou Shenzhen Hong Kong
Beijing Shanghai Taipei 6
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Personal Care, which is the largest 
business area within Consumer Care, 
achieved impressive turnover and 
profit growth, driven by sales to our 
major multinational customers in all 
parts of the world. Throughout the 
year, consumers showed no inclination 
to trade down even in those areas 
under most economic pressure. Our 
product pipeline in this area has never 
been stronger and we launched a 
number of successful new products 
during the year. Highlights included 
the Crodasone™ Cystine hair therapy 
smoothing system and Resistem™ for 
skincare, making revolutionary new use 
of plant stem cell technology to deliver 
anti-ageing protection and improved 
skin transparency. 
Industrial Specialities
Sales increased by 1.8% to £494.1m 
(2010: £485.5m) and operating profit 
grew by 11.1% to £69.0m (2010: 
£62.1m), representing a ROS of 14.0% 
(2010: 12.8%). Breaking this down into 
the new reporting sectors we will use 
from 2012:
Performance Technologies sales 
increased by 2.6% to £389.2m (2010: 
£379.4m) and operating profit rose by 
17.4% to £60.1m (2010: £51.2m), a 
ROS of 15.4% (2010: 13.5%). 
Lubricants, Home Care and Coatings 
& Polymers all contributed to the 
strong profit growth in this sector. 
Geo Technologies also made good 
underlying progress, though the 
windfall sales and profits resulting from 
the Gulf of Mexico clean-up in 2010 
were obviously not repeated in 2011. 
In Polymer Additives, weak sales in 
Europe outweighed strong growth in 
other parts of the world. 
Our strategic aim in this sector is to 
replicate the success we have achieved 
in Consumer Care by launching many 
new products into profitable niche 
market applications, and good progress 
was made in this during the year. In 
Lubricants, we introduced the Perfad™ 
3000 series of organic friction modifiers, 
which offer outstanding friction 
reduction and improved fuel economy 
in oil based systems. In Home Care, we 
launched Modisurf™ Clarity, a stay-
clean additive for hard surface cleaners, 
acting as an effective lime scale 
repellent that is also environmentally 
friendly and mild to the skin. 
In Coatings & Polymers, our new 
Maxemul™ polymerics capitalise on the 
trend to water-based coatings driven by 
ever tighter environmental regulations 
restricting the use of Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOCs). Maxemul™ permits 
the total elimination of VOC solvents 
without any compromise on product 
performance. In Polymer Additives, we 
have focused our efforts on developing 
products for wood-plastic composites to 
improve output, decrease water uptake 
and provide internal lubrication.
In Geo Technologies, we have launched 
a range of green demulsifiers to help 
with the challenge of improving 
environmental performance in the oil 
industry. Our launches have included 
several new products that are designed 
to help oilfield service companies 
meet the very specific needs of each 
oil production well with improved 
environmental ratings.
Right across the sector, our successful 
innovation has meant the replacement 
of higher volume, low margin products 
by new lines that add real value for 
our customers and offer higher levels 
of profitability. This was the key driver 
of the significant improvement in the 
sector’s return on sales during the year. 
Chief Executive’s review 
We are continuing 
to drive top line 
growth through 
successful 
new product 
development, 
moving even closer 
to our customers 
and increasing our 
focus on faster 
growing emerging 
economies, 
particularly in Asia 
and Latin America
The Cystine Hair Smoothing system is a unique set of demonstration formulations
put together by Croda’s application scientists to show how Croda ingredients can be
combined to create products for effective semi-permanent hair smoothing. The hair
smoothing category has seen an explosion of global market interest in the last few
years yet safe and effective technical solutions have been hard to find. Cystine Hair 
Smoothing is the ideal solution for this significant market need. 7
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Industrial Chemicals sales were down 
1.1% at £104.9m (2010: £106.1m) 
and operating profit was 18.3% lower 
at £8.9m (2010: £10.9m), a ROS of 
8.5% (2010: 10.3%). This reflected high 
raw material prices and competitive 
commodity and textile markets, though 
we did see an improving trend in the 
final quarter.
Geography
The business moved forward in all 
our four operating regions, with the 
strongest progress being achieved in 
Latin America, where sales grew by 
11%, and in Europe, with sales growth 
of 9%. Sales in North America grew by 
a more modest 4% as we exited from 
a major distributor, which reduced sales 
in the second and third quarters. In 
Asia, our deliberate de-marketing from 
the tail of our Industrial Specialities 
business held sales back to an overall 
increase of 3%.
Sustainability
Croda’s “green” credentials are one of 
our greatest strengths, with our focus 
on the production of natural ingredients 
and some 70% of our raw materials 
already derived from renewable 
resources. As a leader in sustainable 
technologies, we are proud that so 
many of our products enhance the 
quality of life through their beneficial 
impact on human health and wellbeing, 
and on the wider environment.
We continue to place a strong emphasis 
on responsible sourcing and on 
minimising the environmental impact 
of our operations through a series of 
initiatives to reduce our consumption 
of energy and water, and to cut the 
quantities of waste we send to landfill. 
We also remain strongly committed 
to being a first class employer and a 
good neighbour to the communities in 
which we operate. Full details of our 
policies and actions can be found in 
the Sustainability review on pages 12 
to 21 and in our separately published 
Sustainability (formerly Corporate Social 
Responsibility) Report.
Our People
Croda employs more than 3,200 people 
in 33 countries around the world. Many 
are highly qualified chemists; all share 
an overriding commitment to putting 
our customers first, through their focus 
on identifying and meeting customers’ 
current and future needs.
Our continuing business success 
depends on our ability to attract and 
retain individuals who are passionate 
about personal and business 
development and who want to make 
a significant contribution to the future 
of Croda. We recognise that our 
employees want to make a difference 
and through open and honest dialogue 
we are able to design reward strategies 
and development opportunities that 
meet the individual needs of our global 
workforce. We have a terrific talent pool 
in Croda and we look forward to seeing 
our people grow in the organisation.
I am grateful to all my colleagues for 
their contributions as individuals and as 
teams to another year of outstanding 
progress for the Group.
Summary
We have a clear strategy, a strong 
business model, robust finances, 
talented people, great products and a 
strong development pipeline. Taken 
together these provide us with the 
soundest of platforms for continuing to 
deliver customer satisfaction, meeting 
our ambitious performance targets 
and delivering shareholder value. 
I look forward with confidence to 
leading Croda’s continued growth and 
development in the years ahead.
Steve Foots 
Group Chief Executive
We will accelerate 
the capture of new 
technologies across 
the Group, with 
a strong focus on 
sustainability
Perfad™ 3000 and Perfad 3050 are unique organic friction modifiers, both in terms 
of their chemistry and their performance. Based on polymer chemistry, they deliver 
outstandingly low friction properties, which is the key to increasing fuel efficiency, 
reducing CO
2
 emissions and engine wear, as well as extending the durability of engine 
equipment. A small improvement in individual vehicle fuel efficiency has a dramatic 
impact on total fuel consumption and exhaust emissions.
