 04
Chief Executive’s Review
Croda employs
3,288
people in 34 countries around the world
of our UK employees participate in our 
SAYE scheme or Share Incentive Plan
75
Croda’s record results underline the resilience of our unique and highly innovative 
business model, focused on fast growing niche markets and high value products 
where we can utilise our global reach.
Business Performance
It has been a busy and very enjoyable ﬁrst year at the helm as Chief 
Executive, and I am pleased to report that Croda has again delivered 
a strong set of results. This was achieved despite a weak macro global 
environment, driven largely by the European debt crisis, ﬁscal cliff 
concerns in the USA and a noticeable economic slowdown in China. 
The continuing strong demand for our products bears witness to the 
effectiveness of our strategy, focusing on differentiation, innovation 
and investment for a sustainable future. 
Strategy
We have made signiﬁcant progress in a number of areas this year. 
Separating Performance T echnologies and Industrial Chemicals has 
allowed greater management focus in both segments, which is key to a 
continued improvement in their performance. The disposal of Cremona 
was an important step forward in making Industrial Chemicals more 
differentiated and market focused, with a growing emphasis on speciality 
products. We have created a fully resourced Enterprise T echnology group 
charged with identifying the next generation of technologies and 
accelerating their capture, and this has already achieved two important 
successes with the acquisitions of IRB (plant stem cells) and Innovachem 
(specialised emollients), both with rich patent portfolios which we will 
consolidate and develop in our Consumer Care sector. T o drive even 
faster growth in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America, we 
have bolstered our commercial teams by signiﬁcantly increasing resource 
in sales and marketing. We have also started to expand our R&D and 
manufacturing presence in both regions and this will continue in 2013 
and beyond.
Geography
Geographically, underlying sales from continuing operations moved 
forward in all of our four main regions with the strongest progress being 
achieved in the USA where sales grew 6% and in Latin America where 
sales grew by 4%. Sales in Asia were 3% ahead, held back by the 
slowdown in China and our continued withdrawal from undifferentiated 
products in both our Performance T echnologies and Industrial Chemicals 
portfolios. Europe held up relatively well given the lower overall market 
growth and the exchange rate headwinds, particularly acute in the 
second half of the year, ending the year only 0.5% behind 2011.
Sustainability
During the year, whilst the business has continued to grow, we have 
made excellent progress in respect of a number of our sustainability 
targets, notably in our reduced use of energy and water along with 
a signiﬁcant reduction in the amount of waste we have sent to landﬁll. 
Our separate Sustainability Report provides detailed information on this 
progress and our continued commitment to sustainability.
We were delighted to receive recognition of our achievements in the 
latest report from Canadian company Corporate Knights, where we 
were ranked 25th in the Global T op 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 
in the World. We were the highest ranking UK based company in this 
survey, providing independent testimony to the effectiveness of fully 
integrating sustainability into our approach at all of our operations, 
both manufacturing and non-manufacturing. 05
People
Our people play a vital role in the success of our business. Croda employs 
around 3,300 people in 34 countries across the world. They all share an 
overriding commitment to working hard and delivering great results by 
putting our customers ﬁrst. We have a terriﬁc talent pool and I look forward 
to seeing our people grow and develop in the organisation.
Croda’s continuing business success depends on our ability to attract and 
retain outstanding individuals who are passionate about personal and 
business development, and who want to make a signiﬁcant contribution 
to the future of Croda. I am pleased to report that our staff retention rates 
around the world are at record levels. The fact that we have a highly 
motivated workforce who want to buy into the Croda story is reﬂected in 
the fact that more than 75% of our UK employees participate in our SAYE 
scheme or Share Incentive Plan, a performance that saw Croda honoured 
for best overall performance in fostering employee share ownership at 
the 2012 IFS Proshare awards. 
I am grateful to all my colleagues for their contribution both individually 
and as team players.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
The continuing strong demand for 
our products bears witness to the 
effectiveness of our strategy, focusing 
on differentiation, innovation and 
investment for a sustainable future.
