 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Two
In a challenging year for the leisure industry, and for
health and fitness clubs in particular, I can report that
we performed creditably at the operating level, with
profits before exceptional items of £4.3m against
£6.5m last year, and an operating loss of £6.2m (2001:
£5.9m) after exceptional items. All of the profit
reduction was in our non-core business with flat health
and fitness profits.
Our interim statement, last September stated: “Trading
looks likely to continue to be tough for the remainder
of the year. However, we are tackling the conditions
realistically and are ensuring costs and overheads are
tightly controlled.” This proved to be an accurate
diagnosis, and by taking action on costs early we were
able to protect operating profits. Mid year the
management team made significant progress in quickly
reducing both the Plc and operating overheads of the
business. As a result the company is now leaner, more
focussed and well positioned in the current trading
environment.
The events in the final quarter of 2002 involving the
offer for the company by Bennelong were expensive
and potentially disruptive, but we were pleased to
negotiate an agreement that ensured a 40%
improvement on the original offer to those
shareholders wanting to accept cash. The 7 pence a
share offer also represented a 280% improvement over
the lowest level which the Crown Sports Plc share
price reached during the year. I am also pleased to
report that, despite the potential distraction, the
management team continued to focus on operational
matters, thereby ensuring that a creditable financial
result was achieved for the year. 
It is also worth restating the key elements of the
agreement reached with Bennelong, namely that:
• the Company would focus on its core Health and
Fitness business, and would dispose of its other
businesses;
• the proceeds from the sale of the non-core
businesses would be used to pay down debt;
• the Board would be restructured, creating a more
stable environment for operational management.
We have made progress against all of these objectives.
We are focussing on building a successful health and
fitness clubs business which members, employees and
shareholders can profit from and enjoy. The economic
environment in which we are operating is hardly
helpful, but we are nonetheless achieving satisfactory
progress. Once the economic scene is brighter, I am
confident this progress will be reflected in significant
improvements in shareholder value.
2002 RESULTS
During the second half of 2002 we sold our 9.9% stake
in Esporta Plc, using the proceeds of £14.5m to retire
debt, and this resulted in a book profit of £2.9m,
which is shown in the year-end accounts. Similarly, at
the end of 2002 we agreed to sell Crown Golf to
Bennelong, for the sum of £15.4m. This transaction
was completed on 8 January 2003, and £13.9m of the
proceeds was used for a further debt repayment.
Assuming the money had been received by 2002 year
end our net debt position would have been £21m,
representing a gearing of 41%, a substantially healthier
position than at the end of 2001, when net debt was
£47m (excluding member advances).
As previously noted, our strategy is now to focus on
the health and fitness business, and we are therefore in
discussions to dispose of both The Winning Line and
Crown Content. It is unfortunate that market
conditions have continued to deteriorate as
negotiations have progressed, but I am hopeful that
these deals will be concluded in the near future.
Ray Pierce
Chairman Three
These results include significant negative exceptional
items relating to the non-core Crown Golf, The
Winning Line and Crown Content businesses. The
overall result, we believe, is that the company’s assets
are now valued at a realistic level.
Returning to our operating results, turnover increased
from £31.6m to £37.0m, although this included the
positive effect of full year operations at the acquired
Axis and Trainstation health and fitness clubs, and the
negative effect of franchising food and beverage
operations in several clubs. Group operating profit was
£4.3m before exceptional items, compared with £6.5m
in 2001. However, the bulk of the reduction resulted
from poor trading performance in The Winning Line
and Crown Content. Crown Golf was down by £0.3m,
while the core business, Dragons, was flat. 
In the circular to shareholders dated 9 December
2002, we highlighted a number of revenue enhancing
and cost saving initiatives, which we are currently
implementing. Martyn Grealey describes these in more
detail in his report, and we expect to be able to report
more progress in these areas at our 2003 half-year
announcement.
OUTLOOK
We entered 2003 with a clear vision of what we want
to achieve this year. We will complete the disposal of
Crown Content and The Winning Line, and turn
Crown Sports Plc into a pure health and fitness
operator. We will continue to drive operational
excellence, working hard at maintaining and
improving margins through keeping a careful eye on
our cost base, and delivering new initiatives aimed at
recruiting and retaining members. We will continue to
invest in maintenance and upgrading the current
portfolio of clubs and will benefit from not having any
clubs in development.
The health and fitness sector is experiencing for the
first time the pressures of relative maturity, and
different management skills will be required to return
the sector to a growth path. We expect tough trading
conditions throughout 2003, and well into 2004.
However, we believe we are well placed to respond
successfully to these pressures because:
• management took early action to significantly
reduce the operating overheads of the business,
the benefits of which will flow through into the
current financial year;
• of the 22 Dragons clubs that we operate 11 are
freeholds and 7 are long leaseholds. This provides
the company with a valuable platform of tangible
assets and a low operating cost base;
• our net debt is down to a manageable £21m,
representing a lower gearing of 41%;
• our management team, with a broad range of
experience in other sectors is experienced in
managing in tighter markets;
• our clubs are focussed on meeting and satisfying
our customer needs, and are differentiated from
the competition;
• we have a clear strategy and a stable management
and Board.
We believe that there is still substantial potential for
long term growth in the health and fitness sector, and
that growth will be re-established once current
economic uncertainties have been reduced. Our focus
will continue to be on improving our operations,
delivering profit growth, and improving shareholder
value. The year has started satisfactorily , and providing
market conditions do not deteriorate further we
should continue to progress.
Finally, I would like to thank all the staff of Crown
Sports Plc for their contribution to the company’s
performance during 2002.
Ray Pierce
Chairman
15 April 2003
