 The trading environment in 2002 through to the
present has thrown up a number of challenges for both
the health and fitness industry and the Crown Sports
health and fitness businesses. Weakening consumer
confidence and growing pressure on consumer
spending combined with competitive saturation in
certain markets has created unprecedented industry
uncertainty .
In order to actively manage our position through this
difficult period we have pursued two strategic aims. 
Firstly, we have focussed on improving the quality of
the members’ experience - and in particular the
achievement of their personal goals - in the drive to
improve sales and member retention. 
Secondly, the management team has worked hard to
significantly reduce the operating overheads of the
business. 
The Dragons and Fitness Express businesses quickly
recognised the changing conditions last year and as a
result reviewed all operating plans, processes and costs
within the business. The outcome was a profit
improvement plan developed mid year that has and
will continue to be implemented. The management
team took early and decisive action and as a result we
successfully achieved our objectives of;
• increasing the accountability and focus of the local
operational management teams particularly in the
key areas of delivering club sales and profitability;
• substantially reducing the level of central overhead
and club operating costs. This was achieved
through the elimination of layers of management
and low value adding overheads;
• more effective control of capital expenditure;
• improving buying terms by taking advantage of the
increased scale of the health and fitness business.
This has resulted in substantial financial savings
and more importantly operational improvements
in the way we manage the business. 
DRAGONS
Dragons operates 22 mid sized health and fitness
clubs across England that provide quality gym,
swimming, spa, racquets and social facilities.
In Dragons we have consolidated our business
following the acquisitions made in 2001 and retain our
position as one of the leading operators of health clubs
in the UK. 
The tough trading conditions resulted in our
membership declining by 5% to 51,000 adult
members by the end of December 2002. This took
place in a relatively mature estate where the youngest
club is almost 3 years old. T urnover grew by over 15%,
including the benefit of full year trading for the Axis
and Trainstation clubs, whilst club operating profits
remained flat.
In 2002 we actively pursued our longstanding
objective of being the “Friendly face of health clubs”
with a number of member based initiatives that
focussed on our core values of friendliness, service and
the delivery of member results. These, we believe,
reflect the needs of our increasingly mature member
base who use our mid sized format clubs. At an
average size of 20,000 sq ft with a gym, studio,
swimming pool, food and beverage and crèche
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Four
Martyn Grealey
Chief Executive Five
provision the clubs appeal to the socially minded
member. Importantly, 15 clubs provide squash
facilities whilst five clubs provide tennis. In many
clubs these form a core part of our offering. 
In the latter part of the year we introduced the
“Dragons Promise”, a results based programme
available to all new members which is showing early
positive results in the area of member retention and
revenue generation. We have also introduced new
longer term membership categories that are aimed at
ensuring greater member satisfaction and improved
retention which are proving popular with our new
members.
The estate of clubs was further improved with £2.4m
invested in improving our facilities, including £0.6m
as part of the Trainstation acquisition integration
programme. In addition, major refurbishment projects
were undertaken at Brentwood, Epsom, Lincoln,
Maidstone and Western Avenue clubs.
Looking forward we continue to see tough trading
conditions with ongoing pressure on joining fees and
memberships. However, we believe that we are well
placed to face up to the difficulties ahead in part due
to;
• the full year benefit that the business will enjoy as
a result of the decisive management action taken in
the second half of 2002 to significantly reduce the
operating costs of the business; 
• a high exposure to the more loyal over 35’s market;
• a high percentage of freehold and long lease 
properties; 
• a strong social base due in part to the high racquets 
usage.
In 2003 we will continue to manage our business with
a focus on building higher value and more robust
longer term memberships, developing the retention
building “Dragons Promise” programme and striving
towards achieving a best in class operating cost base.
FITNESS EXPRESS
Fitness Express operates 27 health and fitness
clubs on a contract management basis in Europe
and the Middle East.
In 2002 Fitness Express maintained its position as the
leading operator of independently owned hotel health
clubs continuing its expansion strategy through its
partners. With over 21,000 paying members in
addition to the usage it attracts from hotel residents,
we enjoy a high percentage of usage by the growing
over 40’s market.
We currently operate 21 health clubs on behalf of our
partners in the UK taking full responsibility for the day
to day management of the health club element of their
businesses. Key to our success is the level of client
satisfaction with clear targets being set and achieved in
a number of key operational areas including health
and safety where we have developed significant
expertise. 
In 2002 progress was made with our relationship with
the Millennium and Copthorne group where in
addition to integrating the 9 “Le Club” operations in
the UK we also assisted in the group’s expansion
abroad. During 2002 we opened a new club in Abu
Dhabi and this year we have opened new clubs in
Sharjah and Agadir. In addition we have provided
brand management skills and expertise in the
Millennium and Copthorne “Le Club” health clubs in
Hannover, Calais and Paris. 
Looking forward we see opportunities for further
expansion as our high levels of expertise in the areas of
operations, training and health and safety management
are in demand from independent and chain hotel
operators keen to develop their on site health club
facilities. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued Six
CROWN GOLF AND OTHER BUSINESSES
In 2002 the Crown Sports Plc group companies
included three further businesses which are outside of
our core activities of health and fitness – these are
Crown Golf, Crown Content and The Winning Line.
Crown Golf is one of the leading owners and operators
of golf clubs within the UK, owning eight Golf Clubs.
This business was sold on 8 January 2003.
Crown Content is a publishing business based in
Melbourne, Australia which Crown Sports Plc
acquired in April 2001. The business specialises in
Guides, Newsletters and Books, with the emphasis on
sports publishing.
The Winning Line was acquired by Crown Sports Plc
in April 2001. At that time the business had two
elements – that of sports betting and racehorse
syndicated ownership. Following a review of the
business it was decided in 2002 to terminate the
racehorse syndication – all the horses have now been
sold. The business now focusses on specialised sports
betting. 
Following the sale of Crown Golf, the group is
reviewing its options for disposing of its interests in
Crown Content and The Winning Line. Going forward
we intend to focus exclusively on our core sector of
health and fitness.
Martyn Grealey
Chief Executive
15 April 2003
