 Crown Sports plc operates the Dragons Health
Club brand which currently consists of 21 mid
sized health and fitness clubs across England that
provide gym, swimming, spa, racquets and social
facilities.
Despite the continuing difficult trading environment in
2003 we can report that last year we achieved a
number of our key business and financial objectives. 
In particular we have:
• disposed of our identified non core businesses
enabling us to focus on the health and fitness
sector where we see good long term prospects for
growth;
• increased the operating profit of our continuing
business by 32%;
• improved our overall financial position with a
further £18m of debt paid down in a business
which is underpinned by a high level of freehold
and long leasehold assets.
During 2003, as a result of the competitive market
conditions and the increasing level of new
membership deals and offers both the yield per
member and joining fees were put under pressure.
Primarily as a result of these factors our membership
revenues fell by 6%, however this was offset by
operational cost reductions of 11% which resulted in
an operating profit before amortisation and any central
costs of £6.0m, which was in line with previous year’s
performance.
Importantly, the Dragons business maintained its
strong focus on customers which resulted in a 21%
reduction in the number of members terminating their
membership compared to the previous year. This was
due, in part, to our unique Dragons Promise retention
programme and the introduction of new categories of
longer term memberships. As a result we reversed the
previous decline in membership and in 2003 grew our
membership finishing the year at just over 51,500. 
In the area of joiners we introduced a number of new
membership initiatives and in the latter part of the year
recruited additional marketing expertise and resource
that contributed to an improvement in our sales
position.
In addition, we invested £0.4m in refurbishment 
work in 6 clubs in order to improve the member
environment and enhance the sales potential. Early
results have been positive and as a result we plan to
roll out these improvements into a further group of
clubs in 2004. 
All of the above financial performance excludes the
Leamington Spa club which was sold as a going
concern for £1.3m. The sale of the club, which was our
only town centre operation and did not reflect the
location profile of the rest of the group, represented a
good opportunity to generate cash that has been used
to further pay down debt.
Looking forward, we believe that the measures put in
place during 2003 have put us in a good position to
take advantage of the long term positive trends in
health and fitness.
In particular, the Dragons business will benefit from
the following:
• a robust member base with a high percentage of
the more loyal over 35’s age group and a proven
record of retention improvement;
• strong cash generation combined with a high
freehold and long leasehold asset base;
• a solid management team who have a proven
ability to deliver substantial cost efficiencies and
positive member trends.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Four Five
In the short term the market remains tough and highly
competitive, but we are continuing to see encouraging
growth in our membership levels as a result of highly
effective retention programmes combined with strong
marketing and club specific pricing strategies. 
Finally, in the first quarter of 2004 we can report that
on a like for like basis the number of new joiners has
increased by 11%, this was combined with better
retention, with a 13% reduction in the number of
leavers. Overall, the net increase in members is almost
3 times that achieved in the first quarter of last year.
MARTYN GREALEY
Chief Executive
