 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Two
"2003 has seen a significant change in the
structure and financial health of the company"
At the end of the 2002 financial year Crown Sports
consisted of 22 Dragons Health Clubs, 27 Fitness
Express management contracts, an Australian
publishing business, 8 golf clubs, and a horse betting
business. We had reported Group operating losses of
over £6.0m and net debt of £35.7m. 
A year later I am able to report a significant change in
the structure and financial health of the business.
During 2003 Crown Sports took significant strides
forward and is now an operationally stronger business
with a clear focus on Health and Fitness, a market in
which we see opportunities for future growth. For the
year to 31 December 2003, the Group achieved a small
operating profit despite £3.0m of exceptional costs,
and most significantly reduced debt by around 50% to
£18.0m.
Despite continuing tough conditions I am able to
report a solid year for the Dragons Health Clubs
business which is our continuing business going
forward. Turnover from these continuing operations
fell to £22.6m (2002: £24.6m) mainly due to the
ongoing pressure on joining fees and competitive
marketing offers. Due to a reduction in central
overheads and good club cost control, operating
profits from the continuing businesses, before
exceptional items and goodwill, improved by 32% to
£3.7m (2002: £2.8m). Exceptional items relating
principally to the sale of the disposed businesses
totalled £3.0m and resulted in the Group reporting
pre-tax losses of £2.0m (2002: loss £6.1m). Earnings
per share before exceptional items reduced slightly to
0.3p (2002: 0.4p).
During the year we completed the sale of Crown Golf
to Bennelong for £15.4m in cash, disposed of The
Winning Line to Last Race Ltd for £0.07m and sold
Crown Content, the Australian publishing business 
to Sportsbrand Media Group for an initial
consideration of £1.0m. Since the year end we have
also sold our health club in Leamington Spa for £1.3m
representing 16 times earnings before interest,
taxation, depreciation and amortisation. On 30 March
2004 we also sold the Fitness Express business for
£1.15m.
During 2003 we also commenced the process of
making two important changes to the structure of our
business that we hope to implement in 2004.
First, a resolution will be put to shareholders at the
AGM in respect of the re-organisation of capital which
will eliminate the deficit on the profit and loss account.
If this is successfully implemented we will be in a
position where we can, if we choose to do so
commence dividend payments in the future.
Secondly, at the Interim results in September 2003 I
indicated that we hoped to move to AIM by the end of
the financial year. The administrative process has
proceeded slower than anticipated, however we are
confident that this will be concluded within the next
few months. 
OUTLOOK
Last year I communicated to shareholders that we had
a clear plan for 2003 and I can confirm that the
strategic and operational objectives highlighted were
met. The transitional year for Crown Sports is behind
us and we can now concentrate fully on growing the
core Dragons business.  Three
For the future we remain well placed in the industry
and the market in which we operate due to:
• consistent profit delivery and cash generation from
our core business;
• a level of net debt which at year end had reduced
down to £18.0m representing a lower gearing of
37% (following the disposals of the Leamington
Spa club and Fitness Express in Q1 2004, gearing
has reduced further to 31%);
• a property portfolio that is underpinned by 10
freehold and 7 long leasehold properties which
provides a valuable platform of tangible assets and
low operating costs.
The board of Crown Sports Plc remain committed to
our belief that the health and fitness market has good
long term prospects and that our focus on improving
our operations, delivering profit growth and reducing
debt will improve shareholder value. 2004 has started
well with positive trends in new joiners and
membership growth and providing that market
conditions do not deteriorate we should continue to
progress.
Finally, once again I would like to thank the staff of
Crown Sports Plc for their contribution to the
company’s performance in 2003.
RAY PIERCE
Chairman
