 6 Changing the way the world connects
Chief Executive Officer’ s review
2005 was another strong year for CSR with our
revenue of $486.5 million dollars representing an
increase of over 90% compared with 2004 as we
shipped (directly and under manufacturing licence)
over 150 million single chip Bluetooth devices.
Our pre-tax profits nearly doubled to $114.4 million
dollars and at year end the share price closed at 
more than four and a half times the IPO price of 200p.
In early 2006 we entered the list of the top 200
companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Highlights of the year included;
• continued strong growth of the Bluetooth market
with the first products for the consumer segment
such as stereo headsets being offered on the market
and the adoption of cellular products by consumers 
in the USA. 
• growth in CSR’ s share of the Bluetooth market 
from 45% to over 50% and the release of
BlueCore5, our fifth generation Bluetooth solution.
• successful completion of the design of our UniFi
solution for the embedded Wi-Fi market.
• the successful acquisition and integration of Clarity
T echnologies, Inc. providing noise and echo
suppression technology with ‘Clear Voice Capture’
software and establishing CSR Detroit as an audio
engineering centre.
• the acquisition and integration of UbiNetics’
software business which will play a key role in
securing Bluetooth and UniFi design wins in mobile
phones and enabling the convergence of fixed 
and mobile services.
• aggressive cost reduction programs allowing us
to maintain our gross margins as we continued 
to drive down the cost of Bluetooth solutions to
enable further adoption of the technology in our
customer’ s products.
• building our organisation to almost 700 people
in 11 locations worldwide.
Leading in Bluetooth designs
CSR continues to lead the Bluetooth market. 
Over the lifetime of the Bluetooth standard, we have
secured more than 60% of the total recorded design
wins. We maintained that level in 2005 with a
particularly strong performance in GSM (global
system for mobile communications) handsets. 
We continued to secure more design wins than all 
our competitors combined, not just overall but in
every application sector. At year end, CSR had won
70% of the designs for the new v2.0 specification 
with EDR (Enhanced Data Rate) with our fourth
generation BlueCore4 product family. This design
performance enabled CSR to achieve unit market
share of over 50% of all Bluetooth devices shipped 
2005 was another strong year for CSR…
with our pre-tax profits nearly doubling.
T he combination of a fast gr owing Bluetooth
market and our continued leadership in
design wins, make us confident for the
outlook for 2006 as a whole. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 7
in the year, a significant increase on the 45% unit
share achieved during 2004. 
An expanding Bluetooth market
We believe the Bluetooth market is still early in 
its growth phase. Major customers using our
products are undertaking significant consumer
marketing programmes around the world, including
television advertising. 
Mobile phones and headsets are currently the
largest markets for Bluetooth, and at the end of 2005 
we believe that only about 25% of all mobile phones
shipped were Bluetooth enabled. We see this attach
rate increasing. For example a leading European
specialist mobile phone chain now offers Bluetooth 
in 80% of their models, and major retail chains in the
USA and Europe are increasingly offering their own
branded low cost Bluetooth headsets. We expect 
the rate at which Bluetooth is adopted into mobile
phones to increase to around 35% at the end of 2006,
significantly increasing the volume demand 
in 2006 and continuing to grow beyond there. 
The use of Bluetooth in PCs has lagged that in
mobile phones but emerging use of the technology 
in wireless stereo headphones is now increasing the
attach rates with applications for music streaming,
gaming playing, and VoIP (Voice over Internet
Protocol) phone calls. CSR’ s strengths in EDR
technology provides a further stimulus to both the 
PC and consumer Bluetooth market segments.
Bluetooth for automobiles is a market that continues
to develop for both OEM and aftermarket products as
legislation requiring ‘hands on’ driving continues to
spread around the world. Volume vehicle
manufacturers are now following the lead of prestige
brands in embedding Bluetooth capability into the
dashboard with a number of product qualifications 
in the year. 
The evolution of the Bluetooth specification is also
opening up the consumer market segment. Bluetooth
specification additions such as the AV (audio visual)
Profile and EDR enable new applications such as
streaming stereo audio over a Bluetooth link. Multi-
function stereo headphones became available in
2005 which can stream music from MP3 players and
FM radio receivers and pause the music to take calls
from a mobile phone on the stereo headset. Stereo
headsets can be used with PCs, mobile phones and
other portable devices such as MP3 players. Wireless
consoles and controllers were announced in 2005 by
the leading manufacturers of gaming products. Acquisitions
During the year our resources were strengthened 
with two acquisitions and we are delighted with the
progress made in integrating our organisations.
In March 2005, we acquired Clarity T echnologies
based in Detroit, USA. Its leading technology for 
noise and echo suppression in wireless headsets 
and automotive ‘handsfree’ systems is marketed 
as CVC (Clear Voice Capture) and has already been
incorporated into CSR’ s BlueCore devices in products
sold by a number of our major customers.
In August 2005, the acquisition of the Cambridge
headquartered software business of UbiNetics was
completed. UbiNetics provides CSR with a strong
R&D team who developed an industry leading 
multi-mode wireless communications software. 
This adds significant capability to enable us to
design our BlueCore and UniFi devices into mobile
phones and to independently develop software for
FMC (Fixed and Mobile Convergence).
Lowering cost, improving performance
A fundamental belief at CSR is that we must
continuously drive down the cost of the solutions we
offer and increase their performance, thereby both
encouraging further adoption of the technology and
maintaining our competitive position. Beyond the
traditional cost reduction activities focusing on silicon,
package and test, we offer continuously higher levels
of integration to reduce the bill of materials of the end
application and provide increased functionality. 
Our successful BlueCore3-MM (multi-media)
device for stereo headphones, for example, provides
added value by integrating onto the device a CSR
developed DSP (digital signal processor), a stereo 
Hi-Fi quality CODEC (coder-decoder) and battery
charging and power management functions. These
reduce the physical size, power requirements and
cost of the solution. 
Chief Executive
Officer’ s review
continued
Automotive applications benefit 
from CSR’ s CVC technology through 
the suppression of noise and echo,
giving improved sound quality
8 Changing the way the world connects T otal shipments into the Bluetooth Market
Millions of units
64
1
2003 2004 2005 2006E
142
1
317
1
c500*
1
source IMS 
*CSR estimate 
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth brings new
connectivity solutions to mobile devices
CSR continues to dominate both stereo 
and mono headset qualified design wins
Our headset solutions also offer a licence for 
our added-value CVC software from CSR Detroit 
that suppresses echo and noise for much improved
audio quality. CVC is being used on a broad range 
of headset and automotive products which our
customers are developing.
CSR’ s fifth generation Bluetooth solution,
BlueCore5, was announced in 2005 and will be
available for design in and production this year.
Included in the family of devices is BlueCore5-MM
offering an improved DSP , lower power requirements
and reduced cost of the bill of materials. CVC software 
is available with the device for next generation designs.
In 2006 CSR intends to build on the very strong
base we have in Bluetooth and broaden our market
position with our UniFi device which we announced 
at the end of 2004. The highly integrated UniFi device
is the first single chip Wi-Fi product for the embedded
marketplace. T wo on-chip radios enable it to meet 
the IEEE 802.11 a/b/g specifications. UniFi solutions
are now being offered by our partners as completed
modules. At the Consumer Electronics Show in 
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 9 Las Vegas in the first week of 2006, the first product
was shown using CSR’ s reference design with UniFi
and BlueCore4 on a single circuit board. We are the
first to be able to provide the silicon for this combined
solution solving the co-existence issues for 
our customers. 
The number of broadcast radios and the
complexity of connectivity within the modern mobile
phone are increasing. This makes it increasingly
difficult for equipment manufacturers to make new,
very small form factor designs. Connectivity has now
expanded from Bluetooth to include Wi-Fi and will 
add UWB (ultra wideband) in the future. GPS (global
positioning systems) is established today and new
broadcast receivers such as FM radio and Digital TV
broadcast will be added in the next few years. 
This trend has led to the emergence of ‘non-cellular
wireless’ as an increasing value centre in personal
portable devices. Integration of more than one 
‘non-cellular wireless’ technology onto one IC is the
best way of meeting our customers’ time-to-market
and size requirements. CSR’ s proven competence 
in wireless systems integration positions us well to
exploit this opportunity. 
Our research and development organisation
expanded further in 2005 and in particular our
software resources grew significantly with the
acquisitions of Clarity T echnologies and UbiNetics 
in addition to organic growth as we expanded existing
teams. The investment in R&D more than doubled
year on year and we expect it to continue to increase. 
In addition to the UniFi product line, announcements
have been made on the integration of an FM radio
receiver into the BlueCore5 family and the planned
development of a UWB radio to meet the Bluetooth
SIG (special interest group) Seattle specification. 
Other standards are being considered and worked on. 
As a fabless supplier of semiconductor chips 
we rely on our manufacturing partners and enjoy 
close relationships with two industry leaders; TSMC
for wafer fabrication and ASE for assembly and test. 
On 1 May 2005 a major fire at ASE’ s Chung Li facility
disrupted production but the effects on our customers
were minimised with close co-operation throughout
the supply chain. The incident underlined the value of
the ongoing detailed review of our supply chain being
undertaken in order to improve our delivery capability
and further reduce risk. Our devices are now
produced at three separate wafer fabs in T aiwan with
one more being added in T aiwan in the second half of
2006 and a fifth currently being brought on line in the
USA. Assembly and test has been expanded from 
two sites in T aiwan, with the addition of a further facility
in South Korea and two others planned for later in the
Chief Executive
Officer’ s review
continued
10 Changing the way the world connects year of which one will be in China. This in a year when
we increased unit shipments to more than 150 million
which was more than double the prior year, whilst
maintaining high quality levels and further driving unit
costs down.
At the close of 2005, the headcount at CSR had
doubled from the beginning of the year and we now
occupy 12 sites in 11 different locations worldwide.
During the year new design centres were opened in
Lund, Sweden and Sophia Antipolis, France. The
acquisitions of Clarity T echnologies and UbiNetics
added Detroit USA, Shenzhen China, and Bangalore
India. Approximately 70% of our staff have technical
qualifications and over 60% are in R&D.
We believe that 2006 will be another year of 
strong growth and CSR is well positioned to expand
from the current business base to exploit both existing
and emerging wireless communications markets.
We expect the Bluetooth market to continue
growing strongly in 2006 and estimate the year on
year growth in unit shipments to be around 60%.
Whilst the market is highly competitive, CSR’ s share 
of design wins remains strong. We will continue to
drive down the average selling price of our products 
by between 15 and 20% in 2006 with the units
shipped under manufacturing licence diminishing.
The combination of a fast growing Bluetooth
market, our continued leadership in design wins 
and our knowledge of our customers’ development
programmes, make us confident for the outlook for
2006 as a whole.
As previously announced, I retired at the end 
of February. My successor John Scarisbrick, has 
been closely involved with CSR and its business
strategy since June 2004 when he joined the Board 
as a non-executive director. He brings a wealth of
successful semiconductor experience both developing
new product lines and running very large worldwide
businesses. I believe I am indeed very fortunate to
have him take over the significant responsibility of
further developing CSR. 
It has been an exhilarating experience and privilege
to manage such a vibrant company as CSR and I would
like to thank our employees and customers, suppliers
and investors for their support over the last six years. 
I wish the Board and all CSR stakeholders the best of
fortune in the exciting years ahead. Thank you.
John Hodgson
Chief Executive Officer
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 11 CSR’ s markets and opportunities
CSR’ s business is expanding rapidly from its roots 
in Bluetooth. Our vision is based on our core strengths 
of developing software-rich system-on-chip wireless
modem solutions combining analogue and logic
circuits on the same chip. Our technology targets
personal or local area elements of the evolving 
wireless network, particularly those applications that
need to operate in power-sensitive environments.
CSR is now sampling the fifth generation of our
BlueCore single-chip solution for Bluetooth applications.
Five generations of improved performance, tripling 
the data rate supported and providing lower power
and lower cost variants. We have entered a new
market with a single-chip solution for Wi-Fi 
(802.11 a/b/g) applications, called UniFi. Last year , 
we announced our support for integrating UWB 
(ultra wideband) technology with the Bluetooth
specification, and acquired Clarity T echnologies 
and UbiNetics. Here, we look at where our evolving
capability is taking us.
12 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  13 As the global leader in the Bluetooth segment 
of the wireless communications market, we
continuously invest in product development. 
CSR’ s silicon solutions integrate circuits often left 
off the chip. These solutions include providing
complex battery management and power supply
management circuits which prolong battery life and
lower customer manufacturing costs. Our solutions
also integrate the memory on the same chip which
lowers costs for our customers and allows them 
to build the smallest possible Bluetooth devices. 
This enables them to create innovative, appealing,
product designs. 
We have created Bluetooth solutions with
advanced functionality, even offering variants with 
an advanced Kalimba Digital Signal Processor.
Kalimba technology means DSP software can be
added to the chip for superior voice and music quality .
CSR is the only company to provide such advanced
features, which are critical to our headset customers.
But we go much further than just supplying 
the silicon chip. We create system solutions for
Bluetooth applications. This takes two forms. First is
vital software support and integrated components
that reduce the cost and effort required to build
products. This makes CSR chips fast and easy for 
our customers to use. Secondly we develop unique
solutions for specific application areas like mobile
phones, headsets and automotive handsfree kits. 
Our Clear Voice Capture technology running on the
Kalimba DSP in the Bluetooth chip is an example,
providing superior audio quality in demanding
environments. In a mobile phone application, it can
run on the phone’ s processor, providing flexibility 
for our customers to tailor their solution.
As the adoption of Bluetooth proliferates, 
more and more complex user modes are emerging.
T oday’ s predominant single connection applications
such as the Bluetooth headset and in-car handsfree
systems are being augmented by multiple connection
PANs (personal area networks). These include
simultaneous printing, mouse and keyboard control
and mobile phone synchronisation from the PC and
multi-user consumer games consoles featuring both
wireless controllers and wireless audio feeds. This
increases the demand for the most robust and secure
radio solution and CSR is well placed to deliver this
next wave of Bluetooth solutions.
Bluetooth – from cable replacement 
to personal area network
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
14 Changing the way the world connects In the future, CSR will introduce other
improvements to drive Bluetooth forward. We will 
add ‘sniffing modes’ to our Bluetooth solutions to
further improve battery consumption. And we will 
add an ‘extended enquiry’ feature to allow Bluetooth
devices to link up faster, so headsets will hook up 
to phones faster. We will be introducing enhanced
quality of service features, which will further improve
voice and music quality and the user’ s experience.
Driving Bluetooth performance and features is
CSR’ s core mission. Better, smaller, faster Bluetooth
products will increase the rate that Bluetooth is built
into mobile phones and other devices – the so called
attach rate. It will drive innovative accessory development
for personal audio, music and video applications. 
Importantly CSR will integrate an ultra wideband
(UWB) capability into its Bluetooth chips. T oday’ s EDR
(extended data rate) CSR Bluetooth chips are 
already available and are up to three times faster 
than most of the devices being shipped by 
our competitors. UWB will increase this by up to a
hundred times. This will drive compelling applications
like fast downloads of music to phones, or the super-
fast transfer of tomorrow’ s high resolution digital
camera or camera-phone images to printers. 
And by re-using the well established and rich 
software already developed for Bluetooth, it will be
easier to use and therefore be adopted faster than
other schemes. UWB opens up enormous potential.
Mobile phones are incorporating more and more
consumer services such as cameras and music
players. UWB-based Bluetooth will enable the
uploading and downloading of large multi-media 
data files with ease. It also opens up many new
applications in areas such as home entertainment, 
for example, streaming video from a set top box to 
an on the wall flat screen – without unsightly wires 
or expensive installations. It may enable wireless
docking stations, so notebook and laptop PCs can
connect with office networks with ease and security.
While we’re busy painting the world blue we’re
also expanding into other wireless communications
areas where our core competence in integrated
CMOS chip and systems design can bring real value.
First among them is Wi-Fi.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  15 Bluetooth
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
16 Changing the way the world connects Automotive is a growth opportunity for wireless
technology . Bluetooth is already used for headset to
mobile phone voice links to allow handsfree driving. 
It is also increasingly being installed in the car itself as
part of a standard handsfree capability with the addition 
of smart features like linking to your mobile phone’ s
address book and displaying it on the car’ s dashboard
and providing voice recognition satellite navigation
equipment for added safety and convenience. It’ s only 
a short step from there to provide a wireless pathway to
the vehicle diagnostics unit for service calls or roadside
assistance, eliminating bulky and expensive cables.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  17 We have a distinctive position in Wi-Fi. Originally
developed for the PC market, Wi-Fi chips have not 
been well suited for use where power consumption 
or operating near other wireless communication
devices is a prime consideration. Our UniFi device
family offers extremely low power consumption and 
is designed to co-exist with other wireless systems
such as mobile phones and Bluetooth. This makes
UniFi particularly suitable for emerging high-volume
applications for Wi-Fi in the embedded environment,
such as mobile phones and other portable battery-
powered products.
Wi-Fi is already seen as a valuable feature for 
high level converged phones, which are targeting
business users with features such as high speed web
browsing. However , what will drive UniFi attach rates
is the ability to design a phone which will work as a
normal mobile phone much of the time, but when near
a “hot spot” or wireless access point will be able to
connect to it using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol).
Such access points could well be in our homes too.
These “converged phones” will be able to take
advantage of the different costs that normal and 
hot spot connections may offer.
Such handsets, switching between mobile 
phone and Wi-Fi communications channels, will need 
a high performance, lower power Wi-Fi solution which
is happy co-existing with mobile phone and Bluetooth
wireless systems – such as UniFi. They will also 
need considerably more software to manage the
communication. This was one of the driving reasons 
for our acquisition of UbiNetics.
This is an exciting opportunity. The mobile 
handset market is already 700 to 800 million units a
year and a large part of the broadband infrastructure
for ‘converged’ handsets is already in place, with
approaching 100 million homes in Western Europe
and North America now having broadband internet
connections. Many of these homes have also installed
Wi-Fi access points to provide the added flexibility of
wireless connectivity.
Wi-Fi – increasingly important within 
the mobile phone and other battery 
powered devices
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
18 Changing the way the world connects With Bluetooth and Wi-Fi solutions – and UWB in
development – CSR is emerging as a broad supplier
of wireless communications solutions for shorter-
range applications on power-sensitive client devices.
We operate in standards-driven marketplaces and
have pioneered the technology that has proved to be
the catalyst for these fields: the use of the low-cost
CMOS process for radio-frequency applications. 
We possess an enormous amount of know-how in 
this area, and our future value will be driven by our
exploitation of this and related design principles: 
• We will continue to offer complete system solutions
for wireless applications including software, as well
as silicon building blocks that demand a lot of
integration effort. 
• We have a gifted design team with a proven track
record of making the right architectural decisions,
greatly benefiting all our customers and particularly
those who rely on our radio know-how. 
• Our portfolio and roadmap now encompasses 
a range of wireless technologies for personal and
local area networking. With each addition we make,
we become a more valuable partner to our OEM 
and ODM customers. 
Moreover, the highly integrated nature of our offering
means that we eliminate much of the challenging
design and manufacturing work that would otherwise
be required to create and build a radio-based product.
It is this that has allowed – and continues to allow – us
to support many new manufacturers wishing to enter
exciting product markets.
We believe the foundations that we have built 
and the rich set of future market opportunities give 
us the potential to grow from being the largest fabless
semiconductor company in Europe to being in the top
tier of worldwide fabless semiconductor suppliers in 
a few years time.
Our evolving vision
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  19 V oIP (V oice over Internet Protocol) is coming soon,
enabling low-cost global voice and data
communications. CSR’ s UniFi chips are the first
specifically designed for the battery-powered mobile
environment and provide low power , small size and
high performance. CSR’ s investment in software 
means that our Bluetooth and UniFi applications will 
work smoothly and seamlessly .
Wi-Fi
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
20 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  21
