 4 Changing the way the world connects
Chairman’ s statement
2005 has proved yet another remarkable year 
for CSR. Our sales grew impressively by 92% to
$486.5 million, earnings per share rose from $0.48 
to $0.62, and our market capitalisation passed the
billion pound mark.
Such results do not come easily; they have 
been won by excellent product and application
knowledge, good organisation and systems (ERP 
is now implemented across most of the company)
and hard work by our staff and partners alike –
combined, of course, with good executive leadership.
Many events occur throughout a year which can
disrupt progress. Last year we had a major challenge;
a fire at an assembly plant belonging to our production
partner ASE. CSR and ASE staff worked highly
effectively to achieve an astonishingly quick recovery –
for which I congratulate them. 2005 also stands out 
for positive challenges, notably CSR’ s first acquisitions.
Clarity T echnologies, Inc. was acquired in March and
this was followed by the acquisition of the software
business of UbiNetics in August. Clarity T echnologies
provides innovative software to filter out background
noise and improve the quality of audio reception. 
The technology has been integrated extremely quickly
into our product offering and was available to
customers before year end. UbiNetics complements
CSR’ s skill base with extensive wireless software
know-how. Among its assets is a substantial technical
development centre in India, giving us access to 
highly cost effective skills and resources for our future
technology and product development.
As a result of this corporate development and 
our own organic growth, CSR has evolved into a
substantial company with almost 700 staff, and 11
locations across the world.
There have been a number of changes to the
Board in the past year. John Hodgson – who has 
led CSR for the last six years – indicated his wish to
retire and rejoin his family in the USA. John Scarisbrick,
who joined your Board in 2004 and had served as a
non-executive director, takes over from 1 March
2006. John, having been a Senior Vice President of
T exas Instruments Inc responsible for TI’ s $5 billion
DSP (digital signal processor) and Wireless businesses,
in addition to other senior roles in the industry, brings 
a profound knowledge of semiconductor business
development. He will have a significant impact on 
your company’ s future progress and I look forward 
to working with him.
During the past year , significant value
creation has been achieved by your
company , earnings per share rose from
$0.48 to $0.62 and market capitalisation
passed the billion pound mark. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 5
Mike Shone, chairman of CSR up to the IPO and
subsequently a non-executive director, retired from
the Board as agreed in March 2005. In July 2005, 
we brought the non-executive element of your 
Board back up to strength with the appointment of 
Anthony Carlisle, who has spent his career in
marketing and communications and who has an
extensive knowledge of the mobile telephony market.
Progress towards good corporate governance
has also been made by your Board.
Because of my personal experience with 
public companies, I became chairman of the
Remuneration Committee at the time of the IPO, 
as a practical measure. I have now relinquished 
this role in favour of one of our independent non-
executive directors, Ron Mackintosh. We have 
also undertaken our first Board Effectiveness review
which shows that the Board has matured rapidly 
and is working together effectively .
During the past year significant value creation 
has been achieved by your company. This is a
consequence not only of our own actions, but also
those of our manufacturing partners, our suppliers
and our energetic customers who develop the
application markets so effectively. T o all these
stakeholders, our thanks for their patronage, support
and initiative. 
And finally , I must express the Board’ s deep
appreciation to all our staff, be they in Cambridge,
Asia, Europe, or the USA who respond so well to 
the dynamics of the business with such dedication. 
In particular , I must single out John Hodgson who
retired in February 2006. He has done so much for
CSR over the last six years that it is hard to do it justice
in a few words. His energy , enthusiasm, diligence –
and above all leadership skills – deserve the greatest
praise. Thank you John, and enjoy the future.
John Whybrow
Chairman
