 “ 2006 WAS A RECORD YEAR. 
WE HA VE MAINT AINED OUR MARKET
SHARE AND OUR CLEAR LEADERSHIP
IN BLUETOOTH DESIGN WINS”
Changing the way the world connects
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
CSR delivered another record year
and strengthened its position in a fast
growing but developing marketplace.
Our revenues grew by 45% to 
$705 million, we shipped over 
250 million Bluetooth units and our
diluted earnings per share were up
32% to $0.82.
This was achieved despite the
performance for the second half
being tempered by over ordering
from a key account, followed by 
a market shift to lower end phones
(which do not yet contain the
Bluetooth capability) which reduced
anticipated sales. As a result, our
share price, having risen in the first
half of the year to around the £12.00
to £14.00 mark fell back in the
second half to the £6.50 level.
New markets, including the Bluetooth
market, exhibit high growth rates but
are also volatile. When growth is at 
the 100% level, as we have seen in
previous years for CSR, the volatility
element is masked as a consequence
of supply constraints. However, as
growth rates fall back to 40-50%, still
a high and very respectable growth
rate for any business, this volatility
becomes visible and the organisation
needs to develop appropriately.
We have now strengthened our key
account management, along with
improving the understanding of the
market dynamics within each of our
Business Segments to ensure we are
able to understand and anticipate
changes better.
Nevertheless 2006 was a record year.
We responded quickly to changes 
in market demand, began shipping
UniFi products to address new
emerging markets and maintained
our clear design win leadership in
Bluetooth at around 60%.
Bluetooth remains our core strength
and we believe that the market will
continue to be strong in 2007 and
beyond, driven by the global growth
in mobile telephony. Our ability to
offer handset manufacturers increased
functionality on a single chip will be
the cornerstone of our future success.
Furthermore, our recent acquisitions
of NordNav T echnologies AB and
Cambridge Positioning Systems
Limited secures our position in GPS
technology and will underpin our
desire to incorporate location finder
technology on the chip at a price far
below that currently on offer.
Of equal importance are applications
beyond the phone handset and
headset which show great promise.
Our recently announced partnership
with Sony, to provide wireless
technology for the PlayStation 3, 
is a landmark contract that extends
our reputation for winning important
business from category leaders.
STRENGTHENING 
OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
Within CSR, we have strengthened
the infrastructure as we move from 
a small business to a medium-sized
company and now to a major player
in the UK’ s technology sector.
Chief among recent developments 
is the establishment of Business
Segments which will bring sharper
focus to our markets, aligning resources
more accurately to opportunities.
ERP is now fully functioning across
the business, improving efficiency
and enabling us to track products
around the world from wafer
assembly plants in the Far East to
customers around the globe. We
have also strengthened our Human
Resources function, putting in place
several measures which will enable
us to follow best practice, including
the introduction of a company-wide
performance evaluation process.
CHANGES TO YOUR BOARD
John Scarisbrick is nearing completion
of his first year as Chief Executive
Officer. John has taken the reins 
with skill and determination, bringing
strong leadership to his position. 
We were delighted to announce 
the appointment of Sergio Giacoletto
in January 2007 as a non-executive
director. As Executive Vice-President
of Oracle Corporation Europe, Middle
East and Africa, Sergio gives your
Board the benefit of both proven
management ability and extensive
experience in high technology,
international markets.
I should also comment on my own
position. I joined the Board back 
in 2003 with the task of leading the
Company into the public arena with
our flotation in March 2004 and
06 | 07 building a new board to serve the
needs of a listed company and its new
shareholders. I have been proud and
honoured to serve CSR as Chairman
for the last three years. Over that time,
CSR has grown significantly from a
company with revenues of $68 million,
in 2003, to $705 million by 2006,
whilst building a strong global position
in the Bluetooth market and launching
into other wireless standards with
UniFi 802.11 a/b/g. Your Board 
has also built a solid base of good
governance but it is with these
demands in mind and the time
required that I am conscious that it 
is increasingly difficult to do full justice
to the demands which CSR has
rightfully placed upon my time. 
As a consequence I have decided
that I should stand down. I am
delighted that Ron Mackintosh, 
who has served on your Board since
2004 as a non-executive director,
more recently as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and who
knows the Company well, will become
Chairman on 2 May 2007. I know that
in his capable hands the Board will
further develop and give high quality
leadership to the Company.
LOOKING AHEAD
In 2006, CSR faced a number of
challenges, not least a rigorous testing
of our ability to respond to short-term
variations in demand from major
customers. I am pleased to report 
that our response was immediate and
aggressive. In addition, the flexibility
and speed of response from our
manufacturing partners, TSMC and
ASE was also critical and they receive
our wholehearted thanks.
I have no doubt that the wireless
sector will continue to grow and
present extensive opportunities to
CSR. The need to react to short-term
issues with agility is well understood
by your management team and the
lessons learnt during 2006 will prove
invaluable in the coming years.
I wish to thank all our stakeholders for
their support through the year . Without
the abilities and knowledge of our
manufacturing partners, suppliers
and customers we would not be able
to translate ideas into the innovative
applications that are transforming 
the lives of consumers worldwide.
Finally, the Board’ s sincere thanks go
to all our staff. Whether they are based
in Cambridge, Asia, Europe or the
USA, the determination of our people
to respond so well to the dynamics 
of the business is the single greatest
reason behind our continued success.
John Whybrow
Chairman
John Whybrow
Chairman
