 Changing the way the world connects
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
08 | 09
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
2006 was a mixed year for CSR.
Clearly our share price performance
was disappointing. As previously
reported, we experienced lower than
anticipated demand for our headset
chips starting in the third quarter. 
In the fourth quarter we saw the
effects of a shift in mix to lower end
phones at our customers – which
further reduced demand below 
the level we expected. This was a
challenging change for the Company
to deal with. Importantly , these were
not losses of share, or even the rate
of design-wins – both of which
remained generally strong throughout
the period – rather they were shifts 
in end-consumer demand to which
we had to respond. I’m pleased to
say that CSR’ s management team
rose to these short term challenges
well, quickly reducing hiring,
expenses and the orders on our
foundry and assembly partners to
slow inventory growth. This effective,
disciplined approach when the going
gets tough served us well and is an
important organisational capability 
in the competitive and dynamic
global markets we serve. 
As well as responding to these 
shifts in our customers’ demand, 
CSR continued to make real progress
elsewhere. The Company grew diluted
EPS by 32%, revenues by 45%, while
winning more than 500 new Bluetooth
designs world-wide – around 60% of
the total – holding more than half the
unit market and shipping over 250
million Bluetooth chips. 
John Scarisbrick
Chief Executive Officer Our design-win market share
was around three times that of 
the nearest competitor and over 
ten times that of the number three
player. We maintained a strong new
product pipeline, starting extensive
sampling and design-in of our 5th
Generation Bluetooth devices and
began customer shipments of UniFi,
our first Wi-Fi solution.
We continued to build a strong
diversified chip business at CSR in
2006. On a common foundation of
superior radio, chip, software and
packaging technologies, we continued
to expand the depth and breadth of
the markets we serve. This model
has strong operational leverage. 
So, for example, the technologies we
develop for the mobile phone market
also form the basis of the Bluetooth
chips we use for our class-leading
headset devices as well as those
found in game console controllers 
like Sony’ s PlayStation 3, automotive
applications and music players etc. 
This model, of foundation technologies
serving multiple product market
spaces, allows us to tailor our offering
in each of these markets – for
instance to encourage attach rates 
in the competitive space of lower 
end mobile phones and to develop
the lowest cost system solutions for
high performance headsets while
effectively re-using much of our
foundation technology investment.
This forms a strong combination of
businesses serving diverse markets. 
The mobile phone market is the
largest we serve and, not surprisingly,
the most competitive. We won nearly
half of the GSM Bluetooth handset
design-wins in 2006 – down slightly
on 2005. The percentage of mobile
phones attaching Bluetooth grew to
over 35% for the year. In this market
we work with our customers to
engineer our devices to the right price
point to drive volume and attach rate,
especially into lower end phones.
This involves using the smallest chip
size, with lowest raw silicon cost
technology and using our least
expensive packaging – Wafer Level
Chip-Scale Packaging (WLCSP) – 
a technology in which CSR leads the
world. CSR’ s Bluetooth chips have
the highest performance radios, with
the smallest packages and are keenly
priced. T ogether with a strong new
product flow we expect a strong
performance in the handset market 
in 2007 – with attach rates reaching
between 40% – 50%.
Our new product pipeline focusing 
on the mobile phone opportunity 
was strengthened in 2006 by the
introduction of our 5th Generation
BlueCore5 FM part, a state of the art
Bluetooth chip integrated with a high
performance stereo radio. Multiple
design-ins are underway. We also
developed UniVox Mobile – a solution
to add VoIP into the GSM mobile
phone space. This will allow
subscribers using phones with this
technology to make low cost calls via
VoIP operators like Vonage or Skype
when near a supported Wi-Fi access
CSR’s vision is to change the way 
the world connects. We see a
specific opportunity here. For some
considerable time the ‘last mile’ the
last connection between, originally,
the traditional phone system and a
customer’s premises was the focus of
innovation and market growth. Digital
connections proliferated through
cable-modems, digital-subscriber-
lines (DSL), wireless telephony and
wireless local loop technologies. Now
we see that much of the growth and
opportunity, much of the value, in the
last mile is now behind us. Where the
real excitement, the real value
opportunity lies, is in the last 25
metres – inside homes and offices.
This is about connecting the last mile
broadband internet connection to a
multiplicity of devices for audio, video
and control. It might be a Bluetooth
headset allowing hands-free
connection to a mobile phone, or an
Internet Radio – classically styled as a
consumer friendly table top appliance
– tuning into an unlimited number 
of streaming audio sources. It could
include Bluetooth equipped TVs;
sensibly muting when an incoming
mobile phone call is detected, or long
lasting VoIP (Voice over Internet
Protocol) phones using the low cost
tariffs of the next generation of phone
service providers. These will be
demanding markets to create,
needing the highest quality radios,
with ultra-long battery life, extensive
software and systems support and 
all delivered on low cost platforms –
all CSR core strengths.
“ WE CONTINUED TO BUILD A DIVERSIFIED
CHIP BUSINESS A T CSR IN 2006. ON A
COMMON FOUNDA TION OF SUPERIOR
RADIO, CHIP , SOFTWARE AND P ACKAGING
TECHNOLOGIES, WE CONTINUE TO
EXP AND THE DEPTH AND BREADTH 
OF THE MARKETS WE SERVE” Changing the way the world connects
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
10 | 11
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
continued
point. In January 2007 we acquired
NordNav T echnologies AB and
Cambridge Positioning Systems
Limited to add more products to this
pipeline. The software based eGPS
technology which CSR now has 
will allow the addition of the highest
performance location capability on
any CSR Bluetooth equipped phone
for less than one dollar. This is truly 
a breakthrough in price performance
and will herald an era of ubiquitous
location awareness in the coming
years. The flow of compelling new
CSR wireless devices for the handset
market will continue beyond these
technologies. We’ve announced
support for Wi-Fi in combination with
Bluetooth to be in a future variant –
most likely when the uptake of 
Wi-Fi in phones moves from its
current low levels. We’ll also add
Wibree over time. Wibree is entirely
complementary to our Bluetooth
technology and will extend the
pervasion of wireless connectivity
into completely new areas. Ultra
Wideband (UWB) is also on our
roadmap for the mobile phone
market. UWB will allow the transfer 
of photos, videos or music files at 
the highest speeds ever achieved
over a metre or so distance – and
open up new business opportunities
for CSR in this space. 
CSR’s business model is to take
these foundation technologies and
re-use them across a diverse range 
of other markets – adding substantial
revenue opportunities in the process.
This diversity is already very evident –
with around 55% of CSR’ s 2006
revenue being beyond the mobile
phone market in the headset, PC,
Automotive and Consumer spaces.
Beyond the handset market, 
we continued to make progress in 
the Bluetooth headset marketplace
where we won more than four times
the design-wins of all our competitors
combined. In this market we engineer
complete solutions based on our
foundation Bluetooth technology –
ensuring that the headset
manufacturer has the lowest possible
cost for all the parts required to make
a headset. In this we have a distinct
advantage – since we are able to
include important functions like the
battery charger circuits right on the
same chip as the Bluetooth device. 
Again, new product introductions
characterised our efforts in this
market with the introduction of our
5th Generation Bluetooth technology
in a headset variant– adding a
powerful Digital Signal Processor
(DSP) to the Bluetooth radio chip. 
In premium headsets, this DSP can
be used to run special CSR software
to reduce echo and background
noise. T o further differentiate CSR’ s
product offering, we also built a
network of third party DSP software
suppliers to add further noise
cancellation, text to speech and
other functions to CSR’ s headset
solutions. We are also introducing
products to support the low cost
mono headset market, specifically
BlueVox QFN – a complete reference
design that supports the highest
audio quality levels that can be built
by OEMs with an electronic bill of
materials of less than $6. We expect
entry level Bluetooth headsets to
thrive in 2007 at the resultant
attractive resale price points. 
Nowhere exemplifies the pervasion 
of wireless connectivity, however,
more than our non-cellular business
(PC, Automotive and Consumer). In
2006, the range of CSR Bluetooth
enabled products in these markets
was quite remarkable – ranging from
the controllers in Sony’ s PlayStation 3
game console, to T omT om, Garmin
and other Personal Navigation
Devices, Samsung’ s world-first
Bluetooth enabled Yepp T9 MP3
music player and a myriad of other
devices. The revenue contribution
from these and other design-wins 
in 2006 was significant – and will
grow considerably in 2007. The pace
of pervasion is exciting – with new
and novel applications frequently
announced. Recently the first TV 
with integrated Bluetooth was
qualified by Samsung, and the
leaders in the Voice-over-Wi-Fi 
and DECT cordless phone spaces; Accton and SunCorp announced
adoption of CSR’ s UniVox VoIP
technology for their product 
ranges – opening completely new
markets for CSR. 
CREATING THE RIGHT 
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
As you can see from the map on
pages 4 and 5, we now operate 
in ten countries. However, 
although our locations are diverse,
CSR adopts a truly global approach
to business and its customers. 
You will often find engineers from 
labs in one geography working 
to help a customer in a completely
different location, as it is routine to
have complete solution development
spread across a world-wide team
collaborating together. 
At the end of 2006, CSR’ s headcount
had increased to 923 from 688 a year
earlier. About 70% of our employees
have technical qualifications – and
some 60% are employed in new
product research and development. 
We focus on attracting the most
talented people – and then on creating
an environment where the best people
can do their best work. Committed,
motivated and given the flexibility to
perform, our teams act quickly and
execute at speed. Above all else, 
the results outlined in this report 
bear testament to the dedication 
and expertise of our people.
I would also like to take this
opportunity to extend my thanks 
to John Whybrow, our Chairman,
who will be stepping down at our
forthcoming AGM. John has been 
an excellent leader of the Board 
and has successfully overseen a
sustained period of growth for the
Company . Ron Mackintosh, who has
served as a non-executive director 
of CSR since 2004, will succeed
John as Chairman. Ron is also hugely
experienced and I am confident will
continue the high quality leadership
of the Board to which we have
become accustomed.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
In 2007 we expect the Bluetooth
market to continue to grow driven 
by increasing attach rates in mobile
phones, pull through of headsets 
and the strong growth of Bluetooth
beyond the mobile phone in
computing, automotive, gaming 
and music devices. Building upon 
its investments for the mobile phone
segment, CSR will continue to
diversify into associated markets.
As a result of the extraordinary 
talent in CSR throughout the world,
we continue to develop technologies
that are changing the way the 
world connects.  Leveraging these
leadership foundation technologies
into diverse products and markets,
we are developing the products 
and solutions to help our customers
create the wireless products that
consumers want. We will continue 
to do this in 2007, growing and
diversifying CSR’ s business.
John Scarisbrick
Chief Executive Officer
