 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
06
2008 was my first full year at CSR, having joined the 
company in November 2007. In common with most,  
if not all businesses in our sector and beyond, our 
plans for 2008 were affected by the global financial 
and economic crisis that developed during the year. 
The liquidity constraints brought about initially by the 
banking crisis have had a significant impact on all 
aspects of the global economy. Falling confidence in the 
economic outlook and a squeeze on disposable income 
have changed consumer spending decisions and this 
has translated directly into lower sales for our customers. 
Throughout the year, we took steps to secure the longer 
term strategic and commercial success of the Company. 
As the economic events became more acute during the 
autumn of 2008, we acted decisively and implemented 
significant cost reduction measures in order to position 
the business appropriately for the economic recession. 
Regrettably, this has necessitated a reduction in 
headcount. It was not a decision we took lightly. At the 
same time, it shows our commitment to taking the 
decisions which are necessary to keep the Company  
on the right financial footing and we believe will see the 
Company through these difficult times. The cost savings 
programme was fully implemented by the end of 2008 so 
we will benefit fully from this action in 2009. Overall we 
have reduced our cost base by approximately $25 million 
on an annualised basis.
Strong fundamentals
CSR is a sound business with world-leading skills in  
a dynamic market. The markets we supply are also 
fundamentally sound. Wireless connectivity is an integral 
part of how people want to communicate, whether at 
work or in their leisure time and CSR is supplying the 
products and delivering the solutions to meet the 
demands for ease of wireless connectivity, whether for 
voice, music, video or data. In 2008 we shipped nearly 
40% of the world’s Bluetooth chips and were designed-in 
around 50% of all Bluetooth-qualified products.
2  WIRELESS CONNECTIVITY IS AN 
INTEGRAL PART OF HOW PEOPLE WANT 
TO COMMUNICATE
1
2
1  CSR IS SUPPLYING THE PRODUCTS AND 
DELIVERING THE SOLUTIONS TO MEET 
THE DEMANDS FOR EASE OF WIRELESS 
CONNECTIVITY csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
our Priorities are to 
continue to strengthen 
our leading market 
Position, maintain our 
strong balance sheet  
and manage our costs  
and working ca Pital in  
line with the realities  
of the market Place
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer
Perhaps more importantly still, we have been developing 
a number of exciting products during the year:
–  BlueCore7000 range, our next-generation Bluetooth 
chip, combines Bluetooth with FM Transmit, FM 
Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.  
We believe that BlueCore7000 is a world leading 
product. We anticipate shipping BC7000 to our lead 
customer in the third quarter this year.
–  MusiCore is a high performance product aimed at 
improved audio quality for music phones. MusiCore 
adds audio to Bluetooth, allowing people to enjoy up  
to 100 hours of high quality playback via their mobile 
phone handset. It also provides our customers with  
a significant bill of materials saving. Once again, CSR 
has created a world first with this product.
–  UF6000 is our third generation embedded Wi-Fi 
product family which offers the smallest chip size of any 
comparable product together with an ultra low cost. 
BlueCore7000 and MusiCore have been demonstrated 
to customers at various international trade shows early  
in 2009 and each of these three products is sampling at 
Tier 1 customers. 
Operational assessment
Undoubtedly, a key highlight of the year was the 
development and implementation of our new strategy, 
following a comprehensive review which I initiated soon 
after I joined CSR. 
During the assessment, we looked at our market in  
great detail and consulted widely to critique our existing 
views on the opportunities for winning in the global 
market for wireless solutions. Crucially, we undertook 
in-depth discussions with our customers on all 
continents, and asked the leading players where they 
anticipated the most growth. We also carried out a 
ruthless analysis of our own capabilities, identifying 
strengths and weaknesses to determine our most 
advantageous positioning.
The review was a major investment in resources and 
commitment and it revealed a significant opportunity. 
CSR has the products, the customer relationships  
and the capabilities to lead what we have called the 
‘Connectivity Centre’. As a result of the review,  
we were also able to make better informed choices  
about where we wanted to focus our capabilities, which 
resulted in discontinuing certain operations associated 
with the acquisition we made in 2005 of UbiNetics.  
These resources were largely redeployed onto  
projects consistent with executing on the Connectivity 
Centre strategy.
 
CSR enters 2009 with a very clear strategy and  
roadmap for our long term growth which is to focus  
on the Connectivity Centre. 
The Connectivity Centre
The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects  
of short range wireless connectivity products with 
excellent co-existence, capable of operating concurrently 
without degradation in optimum performance. Bluetooth, 
FM radio, Wi-Fi, UWB, high quality audio for music, 
Bluetooth low energy, GPS location-finding technology 
and Near Field Communications can all ultimately 
co-exist alongside each other.
Our research shows that the market for Connectivity 
Centre products in the medium term will be driven  
by the exciting developments in smart and feature 
phones. With our help, customers can put world-class 
connectivity in their products at competitive prices  
and are able to choose, within reason, exactly what 
capabilities they need for any particular product to meet 
end-customer demand. This provides our customers 
with an important differentiator. Despite the economic 
slowdown, we expect the Connectivity Centre market 
has the potential to grow from around $3.5 billion in 2007 
to between $5 billion and $7 billion in 2012. 
07 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
GPS GPS

DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
08 THE CONNECTIVITY CENTRE
The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects of short range wireless connectivity products with excellent  
co-existence, capable of operating concurrently without degradation in optimum performance. Bluetooth, FM radio,  
Wi-Fi, Ultra Wideband, high quality audio for music, Bluetooth low energy, GPS location-finding technology and  
Near Field Communications can all ultimately co-exist alongside each other.
GPS GPS
Bluetooth
FM radio
GPS location-finding 
technology
High quality  
audio for music
Wi-Fi
A new low  
power wireless  
technology
Ultra Wideband
Near Feld  
Communications
the connectivity centre 
informs every key decision 
from where we invest the 
bulk of our r &d dollars , to 
how we lay out our roadmaP
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer
Bluetooth

Bluetooth csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
We recognise the importance of our business activities 
being supported by a sound financial footing. CSR remains 
strongly cash generative, with an operating cash inflow  
for the final quarter of 2008 of $34 million and a closing  
net cash balance for the year of $262 million. This, 
combined with our tight management of costs  
and inventory, will allow CSR to support its existing 
business through our own cash resources.
Notwithstanding the more immediate challenges facing 
many businesses, we are confident in the long-term 
potential of the Connectivity Centre and in our ability  
to take advantage of our position as a leading player  
in its development. 
Today, our focus is sharper than ever before. As a leading 
player in wireless connectivity, we are faced with many 
opportunities – each of which represents a significant 
commercial market. It was important to make an informed, 
clear choice about where our expertise should be directed 
in order to generate maximum returns for shareholders.  
We have made that choice and now have a clearly defined 
set of priorities for the business.
2009 will be tough for all businesses. We are budgeting  
on the basis of a continued slowdown in economic  
activity as well as a continuation in the entire supply chain 
de-stocking. Our priorities are to continue to strengthen 
our leading market position, maintain our strong balance 
sheet and manage our costs and working capital in line 
with the realities of the marketplace.
Commercially, we enter 2009 with a product development 
pipeline in excellent shape, as demonstrated by the recent 
launch of three new products BC7000, UF6000 and CSR 
Synergy as well as the soon to be launched CSR9000, our 
leading edge Bluetooth/GPS/Wi-Fi/FM combination chip. 
We expect all these products will have a positive impact on 
our revenues starting later this year and building through 
the next. Each of these is superior in performance and 
cost-effectiveness to competitors’ offers.
Financially, we have ensured we are strong. Operationally, 
our execution has noticeably sharpened and we have the 
ability, should it become necessary, to respond to further 
deterioration in markets.
Joep van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer
The Connectivity Centre focus informs every key 
decision, from where we should invest the bulk of  
our R&D dollars to how we lay out our roadmap and 
which potential strategic partnerships merit further 
investigation. The first question in any discussion is 
always the same: how will this action help us build 
strength in the Connectivity Centre?
Further progress
During 2008 we implemented more effective project 
management that plans, monitors and supports the 
execution of our projects. This allows us to have greater 
confidence in the delivery of our product roadmap and 
ultimately meeting our strategic goals. It also ensures  
that we have a clear understanding of how our critical 
financial and people resources are being applied, 
enabling us to respond quickly where necessary to  
meet changing circumstances, as demonstrated  
by the events of the final quarter of 2008. We have 
institutionalised programme management within  
the organisation and have improved the way in which  
we track programmes through monthly reviews.  
Our approach to projects has also been revitalised,  
with an emphasis on multi-disciplinary teamwork,  
with a single owner of each project, from conception 
through to delivery. 
The results of this focus is demonstrated by the recent 
launch of three new products that we expect will have a 
positive impact on our revenues starting later this year 
and building through the next. Based on the encouraging 
level of customer engagement, we believe that our 
products will be in demand in the future as they are 
becoming increasingly core to the wireless and 
‘connected’ world in which we now live.
We have also upgraded and improved our commercial 
organisation. A new team has been established and their 
commercial acumen, combined with a suitable amount 
of assertiveness, is already showing effect.
In the following sections of this Annual Report,  
we outline in more detail our expectations for the 
Connectivity Centre and how we intend to implement  
a winning strategy for the future. 
2009 and beyond
2009 will be equally if not more challenging than  
2008. However, looking beyond the short-term macro-
economic difficulties, we have great cause for optimism.
2008 has seen CSR change in ways which better 
position us for the future. Our company is a strong 
business with huge opportunities brought alive by our 
focus on the Connectivity Centre and delivered by the 
most talented and committed people in our industry. 
BlueCore7 , MusiCore and UF6026 will all come to market 
during the next 12 months. We anticipate revenue from 
the second half of the year onwards and, together, we 
expect these three products will help lay the foundations 
for growth in 2010 and beyond.
09 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
CONNECTIVITY TECHNOLOGY ROADMAP
10
• Constant evolution since 1999.
•  A progressive increase in functionality coupled with a steady reduction in size.
•  BlueCore7000 Bluetooth, FM Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS functionality on one chip. 
•  The ‘shrink the chip but expand the functionality’ trend will continue.
TIME 2004 2001 2005 2002 2003
Audio on-chip  
ROM added 
Added  
Enhanced  
Data Rate
Bluetooth  
2.0
SIZE AND DEVELOPMENT  
IN FUNCTIONALITY
(dimensions mm)
BC1
4.86 x 4.86
First Bluetooth  
chip implemented  
into mobile handset
BC2
(4.24 x 4.41)
BC3
(3.84 x 3.40)
BC4
(3.8 x 3.62)
GENERATION OF 
CSR TECHNOLOGY
(dimensions mm)
0 mm
2
5 mm
2
10 mm
2
15 mm
2
20 mm
2
25 mm
2
30 mm
2
35 mm
2
40 mm
2
Shrink process  
continues
Shrink process  
continues
Shrink process  
continues
BC1
(4.86 x 4.86)
Shrink 
design
Shrink 
process csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
11
2008 2006 2009 2007
FM radio 
first 
added 
to chip
(FM 
Receive)
UniFi 1
802.11 a,b,g
(5.84 x 6.44)
UWB 
100 Megabit 
per second 
data transfer 
(5.12 x 5.12)
Improved  
voice and  
music quality
Added  
FM  
Transmit,
BLE and 
GPS
UF6000
802.11 a,b,g,n
(3.70 x 4.17)
Increasing future connectivity
BC5
(4.04 x 4.12)
BC6
(3.49 x 3.21)
BC7
(3.60 x 3.25)
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
12
CSR is changing the way the world connects. We have 
developed products that help people interact, navigate,  
play music and connect to the internet. CSR technology 
inspires, enlivens and offers an ever-improving user 
experience for people worldwide.
Our customers – the leading manufacturers who incorporate  
our technology in their products – include many of the world’s  
top names in electronics. Bose, Nokia, Samsung, Sanyo, Sony 
Ericsson and many more rely on our expertise to add value to  
their products and give them global commercial appeal.
World class products
We are a world leader in connectivity. During 2008 we shipped  
our one billionth chip since the first shipment was made in  
2001 and continued with strong positions in each of our two  
key market sectors: cellular handsets and headsets; and  
Non-cellular applications. 
•  BLUECORE7000 IS OUR NEXT- 
GENERATION BLUETOOTH CHIP  
AND CONTINUES OUR RELENTLESS 
DRIVE TOWARDS PUTTING GREATER 
PERFORMANCE ON AN EVER – 
SMALLER CHIP
•  MUSICORE IS OUR HIGH 
PERFORMANCE COMBINED AUDIO 
AND BLUETOOTH PRODUCT FOR 
MUSIC PHONES ALLOWING 100 HOURS 
OF HIGH QUALITY AUDIO PLAYBACK
•  UF6000 IS OUR EMBEDDED WI-FI CHIP 
THAT OFFERS HIGH PERFORMANCE, 
HIGH SPEED DOWNLOADS OF LARGE 
FILES SUCH AS VIDEO CLIPS
•  OUR CUSTOMERS INCLUDE MANY  
OF THE WORLD’S TOP NAMES IN 
ELECTRONICS
CONNECTING WITH QUALITY csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
13
Cellular
In handsets, over half of all products sold now incorporate 
Bluetooth technology. Over the last four years, we have seen this 
figure (known as the attach rate) rise from just 14% and expect this 
upward trend to continue over the long term. Our products benefit 
from a loyal, established and diverse customer base, and we are 
key suppliers to many of them.
We anticipate that the Bluetooth attach rate for handsets will 
continue to increase over the next few years, albeit that the total 
number of handsets sold is expected to drop in 2009 as a result  
of the current economic environment.
The Bluetooth standard has evolved year-on-year as more 
technology has been added. Not only has the performance of  
our Bluetooth continued to improve, but we have also been able  
to combine that enhanced performance with the addition of new 
functionality. For example, the integration of FM radio onto our 
chips provides improved sound quality that enables the user to 
enjoy listening to music tracks as well as experience improved 
voice reception.
We recognise that a potential challenge to our strength in 
Bluetooth could be mounted by a competitor choosing to integrate 
the Bluetooth-only function into the baseband chip in the phone. 
However, based on our own research, we believe that there are 
several key reasons why such a challenge is not likely to be 
successful. Firstly, the evolution of baseband technology is 
significantly slower than the changes being made to the wireless 
connectivity technology. Secondly, the continuing growth in attach 
rates in a number of applications, as mentioned in this section of 
the report; and thirdly, we believe that Bluetooth will continue  
to be used as an ‘anchor point’ around which other technology is 
integrated. This latter point is reflected in both our existing product 
roadmap and the development of the Connectivity Centre (see the 
diagram on page 8).
In headsets, we again lead the market with a share of around  
80%. Our products are particularly strong at the top end of the 
market where customers demand the greatest capability and 
performance and here we have almost 100% market share. 
Demand for headsets is driven in part by legislation and in June 
2008 we benefited when laws concerning the mandatory use  
of a hands-free device for making phone calls while driving were 
introduced in California and Washington state in the US. 
In addition, we are seeing an increasing number of new headset 
applications leading to opportunities in areas such as the market 
for games consoles (or ‘gaming’) where several leading headset 
manufacturers are now active. Stereo headsets are also expected 
to be a market opportunity of the future. Our solutions provide long 
battery life and high quality audio comparable with that offered by 
wired headphones.
1 2
1  WE LEAD THE HEADSET 
MARKET WITH A SHARE OF 
AROUND 80%
2  CSR TECHNOLOGY INSPIRES, 
ENLIVENS AND OFFERS AN 
EVER IMPROVING USER 
EXPERIENCE csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
Non-cellular
Non-cellular applications are served by our PC, Automotive and 
Consumer division. Wireless connectivity continues to provide 
growth potential across many consumer devices in the medium 
term, with both the total available market and the attach rate 
showing growth. Gaming is an exciting market as is the 
automotive segment, where we lead the market for Bluetooth 
solutions. Although sales of cars are likely to fall during 2009,  
we believe that a greater percentage of new models will feature 
Bluetooth functionality. The inclusion of Bluetooth is relatively 
inexpensive for manufacturers while being extremely attractive  
to their customers. 
Personal Navigation Devices (PNDs) are also an important sector 
for us and our RoadTunes product is now installed in the high 
volume devices of a leading US manufacturer. RoadTunes 
combines in a single device the capability to make and receive 
phone calls simply through a voice instruction from the driver.  
It features state-of-the-art noise and echo cancellation for a better 
user experience and also allows the driver to access in-car 
information and entertainment systems (termed ‘infotainment’)  
by voice activation alone. 
Other notable CSR design wins in the Non-cellular sector include 
digital photo frames, and TVs.
Indeed, we are seeing an increasing number of new applications 
for Bluetooth technology as it becomes a more mainstream and 
cost-effective connectivity solution. We are therefore encouraged 
by the enormous opportunities for our technology that have still  
to be exploited.
World class innovation
We made significant progress with three important new products 
during 2008.
BlueCore7000 is our next-generation Bluetooth chip and 
continues our relentless drive towards putting greater 
performance on an ever-smaller chip. Size is a key factor for  
our customers – and as we demonstrate on pages 10 and 1 1, we 
have a proven track record of increasing functionality while also 
reducing the size of our chips. This is important to our customers, 
since it reduces the space required by our chip when incorporated 
into their products. BlueCore7000 combines Bluetooth with FM 
Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.  
It therefore delivers good radio performance for the user, while 
consuming less power than even conventional Bluetooth and at 
the same time providing personal navigation via a mobile phone  
or other hand held device – all on a single chip. We expect to enter 
mass production towards the end of the second quarter of 2009 
and anticipate sales revenue in the second half of the year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
14
CONNECTING WITH QUALITY  continued
1  OUR ROADTUNES PRODUCT IS NOW INSTALLED IN THE HIGH 
VOLUME DEVICES OF A U.S. MANUFACTURER
2  BLUECORE7000, OUR NEXT GENERATION CHIP COMBINES 
BLUETOOTH WITH FM TRANSMIT, FM RECEIVE, BLUETOOTH LOW 
ENERGY AND GPS CAPABILITY
1
2 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
MusiCore adds audio to Bluetooth and is perfectly matched to  
the increasing consumer demand for music phones which have 
traditionally received poor uptake due to limited battery life and 
poor audio quality. Here again the size and power consumption  
of CSR’s chips enable our customers to create breakthroughs  
in the quality of their products. Our chip offers market-leading 
performance, including 100 hours of high quality playback time 
with audio quality comparable to leading-edge MP3 players and  
a bill of materials that is significantly lower than the competition. 
We expect to see revenue streams from leading manufacturers  
in the second half of 2009.
UF6000 is our embedded Wi-Fi chip. With UF6000, 
manufacturers are able to create handsets that offer high 
performance, high speed downloads of large files, such as  
video clips or large music files that the user can send or receive via 
their mobile device. Our Wi-Fi chip co-exists effectively alongside 
Bluetooth in the same device. This means that the user can make 
a phone call using Bluetooth while also carrying out a Wi-Fi activity 
such as uploading a video clip at the same time – without the 
performance of either function being compromised.
World class manufacturing
We work with the world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers in 
order to maintain and enhance our reputation among customers 
for leading-edge technology supported by reliable supply, proven 
quality and excellent cost advantages. 
CSR is a ‘fabless’ semiconductor company. All wafer fabrication, 
assembly, testing and shipping is subcontracted to Taiwan 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Advanced 
Semiconductor Engineering (ASE). TSMC is the largest wafer 
manufacturer in the world offering the leading technologies in 
wafer fabrication. ASE is the largest packaging and testing 
company in the world with significantly greater capability and 
capacity than any other supplier.
In 2008, we developed a range of new products utilising both 
90nm and 65nm technology and also completed development  
of advanced new packaging technology to complement our 
world-leading Wafer Level Chip Scale Package (WLCSP) 
capability. WLCSP enables us to prepare and package a chip  
at the wafer level instead of the more traditional method which 
involves assembling the package after the wafer has been diced 
into individual chips.
We expanded our assembly manufacturing base by qualifying 
ASE’s facility in Shanghai, China for manufacturing low cost 
packages. Furthermore, we extended our WLCSP capability  
by transitioning new products from 8” wafers to ASE’s new 12” 
wafer manufacturing line. This provides efficiencies in testing  
and packaging and therefore saves on costs. The year also saw  
us work closely with TSMC on the development of 40nm 
technology for advanced RF/wireless product applications. 
In 2009, we intend to ramp volume production for both 90nm  
and 65nm products. As demonstrated by the graphic on pages  
10 and 11, over the period since 2001, we have progressively 
transitioned to smaller ‘geometries’ as part of our drive to reduce 
cost, thereby remaining price competitive. We work closely with 
our key partners when implementing these new products, as the 
process of adopting leading-edge technologies brings significant 
challenges. In conjunction with TSMC and ASE, we work to 
ensure that the introduction of these changes does not impact  
on either delivery schedules or product quality. We will continue  
to build on the strong relationships with both TSMC and ASE, 
ensuring that our customers benefit from an operational capability 
focused on world-leading quality, delivery and performance. 
World class talent
We employ around 975 people at 18 sites in 10 countries 
worldwide. Over 75% of our people are engineers, reflecting  
our emphasis on leading-edge science and our commitment  
to innovation.
We carried out a restructuring of our teams during 2008.  
Business units have been merged and reorganised and this  
action has hugely simplified the way in which we allocate our  
R&D resource. There is now significantly better alignment 
between R&D projects and the business units, which has resulted 
in greater commercial agility and more rapid decision-making, 
allowing us to exploit new opportunities as well as respond at 
speed to our customers’ requirements.
we work with the world’s 
leading semiconductor 
manufacturers Providing 
leading edge technology 
suPPorted by Proven quality
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer
15 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
16
•  WE ARE COMBINING DIFFERENT 
WIRELESS STANDARDS TO ENHANCE  
THE CAPABILITIES OF CONSUMERS’ 
MOBILE DEVICES TO COMMUNICATE  
WITH EACH OTHER
•  CSR HAS THE EXPERIENCE AND THE 
KNOW-HOW TO BUILD AND CONTINUALLY 
INNOVATE CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS
•  BLUECORE7000, MUSICORE AND UF6000 
ARE EXAMPLES OF NEW PRODUCTS 
COMING TO MARKET, HERALDING THE 
START OF A NEW PHASE IN CSR’S 
DEVELOPMENT
CONNECTING WITH PERFORMANCE
CSR is pioneering connectivity, changing the way the  
world connects. The trend towards a wire-free world  
is set to continue in the coming years. This is the future  
that consumers demand and which CSR, through its  
ground-breaking technology, enables leading  
manufacturers to exploit.
Personal devices featuring CSR technology can direct you to the 
nearest coffee bar, petrol station or supermarket. On your journey, 
you can listen to FM radio stations, broadcast from the handset to 
a set of stereo headphones. Or you can choose to listen to any of 
around 500 of your own music tracks, using only a fraction of the 
battery power usually associated with a music capability. While 
you’re waiting for your coffee to cool, you can check your 
Facebook wall, catch up on the news or download music or 
podcasts through your Wi-Fi or Ultra Wideband connection.
Tightening our focus
Following the operational review, we have been focussed on  
the Connectivity Centre. 
Although the term ‘Connectivity Centre’ was originally coined  
by CSR and first used when we announced the results of our 
operational review in the spring of 2008, such is the compelling 
case of the concept that it is already used by competitors and 
customers alike. However, we believe that the Connectivity Centre 
is far more than a neat phrase for describing the bringing together 
of different wireless technologies. The Connectivity Centre is not 
only the future of wireless communication: it is already happening. 
We are combining different wireless standards to enhance the 
capabilities of consumers’ mobile devices to communicate with 
each other. Significantly, we believe also that only CSR offers  
a true Connectivity Centre, with all technologies fully-integrated 
and capable of operating together while sustaining optimum high 
level performance for the user.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
17
Market opportunity
The Connectivity Centre offers a significant growth opportunity. 
Smartphones and feature phones, which have additional 
functionality and provide the user with greater flexibility of 
applications in their mobile phone, will become increasingly 
important at the expense of more basic and ultra low cost models. 
According to industry sources such as ABI and IMS, the number  
of smartphones and feature phones – the core market for the 
Connectivity Centre – will surpass 1.1 billion units worldwide  
by 2012. By the same year, the total addressable market for the 
Connectivity Centre has the potential to grow to be between  
$5 billion and $7 billion compared to around $3.5 billion in 2007 .
CSR has the experience and the know-how to build and 
continually innovate connectivity solutions in order to meet 
end-user demand for increasingly sophisticated and multi-
functional wireless interface between devices. 
The Connectivity Centre
Today, Bluetooth represents over 95% of our revenues. We 
recognise that the continuing success of CSR lies in developing 
additional technologies that operate seamlessly with Bluetooth  
as one part of a connectivity capability. 
At the end of 2008, our Connectivity Centre was offering proven 
performance in a number of key technologies:
 
Bluetooth
Our teams continue to push back the boundaries of Bluetooth. 
During 2008, we shipped nearly 40% of the world’s Bluetooth 
chips and our technology featured in around 50% of all new 
product designs that incorporated Bluetooth.
FM
Music and audio are increasingly important to consumers and, 
therefore, to our customers. Our FM capability allows people  
to listen to radio stations on the move, via a Bluetooth mono  
or stereo headset.
GPS
Interest in and use of GPS grew rapidly in 2008 and is expected  
to continue to increase during 2009. Our GPS solution, which 
features significant technical advantages, is a fraction of the cost  
of alternative solutions while also being capable of acquiring a 
location signal more quickly, even inside buildings. This means  
we can offer greater reliability and therefore an enhanced user 
experience. 
Bluetooth low energy
This new low-power wireless technology can be used to transfer 
simple data sets between compact devices, and can run for up to 
an astonishing ten years on one button-like cell battery. This opens 
up whole new opportunities for Bluetooth, addressing compact 
applications such as watches, TV remote controls and medical 
sensors. In fact low-power wireless technology can transfer data 
from one location to another at a fraction of the cost of existing 
products. For example, training shoes can incorporate monitors  
to record fitness and sports data which can then be downloaded 
wirelessly onto a home computer. Similarly, pulse rate data 
recorded by a medical device can be downloaded wirelessly at 
home or at a local surgery, giving physicians valuable information 
about the patient’s day.
Wi-Fi
With UF6026, our Wi-Fi solution, people can transfer data at  
high speed, downloading music or films and browsing the web. 
UF6026 co-exists alongside Bluetooth in the same device so that, 
for example, consumers can make wireless phone calls while 
uploading files at the same time.
We believe that these products, which will support revenue 
opportunities in 2009 and beyond, demonstrate our firm 
commitment to extending our technology capabilities. 
BlueCore7000, MusiCore and UF6000 are examples of new 
products coming to market, heralding the start of a new phase  
in CSR’s development.
1  OUR FM CAPABILITY ALLOWS PEOPLE  
TO LISTEN TO RADIO STATIONS ON THE 
MOVE, VIA BLUETOOTH MONO OR STEREO 
HEADSET
1
