 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
Wireless connectivity is becoming an increasingly core 
feature of our everyday lives. Our strategy is to position 
CSR to take advantage of this and to strengthen our 
ability to do so.
Decisive Action
CSR does not under-estimate the task ahead in 2009. 
Already we have taken decisive action to reduce costs 
for the very different business conditions. We believe 
these necessary actions were essential to safeguard the 
core strategy which is our focus for 2009 and beyond. 
Joep addresses this in more detail in his statement.
Quickly adapting to the changing circumstances  
of the current economic conditions as they prevail  
will be important for us in the near term to ensure that 
CSR is in a strong position to benefit from any future 
economic recovery. 
Management Team
2008 saw the emergence of a new management team 
led by Joep, who has himself been in position for only  
a little over a year. Joep has impressed me with his 
expertise as a team builder, skills as a business 
strategist and attention to detail.
We welcomed Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer,  
to CSR during the year. Will took over from Paul 
Goodridge, who played an important role for us over 
many years. Prior to joining CSR, Will was Director  
of Finance Technology and Enterprise at BSkyB plc, 
responsible for a 100 strong team which supported the 
technology platforms across BSkyB and its enterprise 
division. He has also been CFO of Easynet Group plc,  
a pan-European broadband telecoms company,  
and held a number of senior roles within J P Morgan’s 
investment banking division.
Chris Ladas was appointed to the Board at the start  
of 2008, following almost eight years as our Senior Vice 
President of Operations. Chris has extensive experience 
of electronics, particularly the semiconductor sector, 
and his wealth of knowledge has made valuable 
contributions to Boardroom discussions.
No one needs telling that 2008 has seen the rapid 
emergence of the worst global economic down-turn 
any of us can remember. Nor do we see any current 
signs of the economic trends returning to growth.
No sector has been immune from these pressures,  
and CSRs’ is no exception. We have inevitably seen 
significant decline in demand, and the scale of this 
decline increased post the September financial crisis as 
a result of customers de-stocking their supply chains. 
For the first time, CSR did not achieve growth.  
Our revenues fell by 18%. After taking account of 
non-cash items and exceptional charges, we also 
recorded an operating loss of $8.5 million. Nevertheless, 
we generated positive cash, maintained our strong 
balance sheet and increased our net cash.
2008 was also a year of transition for CSR. In the first 
quarter of the year, the Board completed a detailed 
operational review led by the new CEO, Joep van 
Beurden. This review both confirmed the potential for  
the markets in which CSR already operates and has led 
to the development of a clear strategy on how CSR can 
succeed in these markets. Our new strategy is therefore 
to focus solely on the Connectivity Centre where we see 
significant future growth opportunities, and have an 
advanced portfolio of suitable products.
Notwithstanding the current wider economic 
challenges, the Board believes that the strategy 
developed in 2008 combined with our recognised 
capabilities in wireless connectivity provides a solid 
foundation that will enable us to deliver long term  
growth for CSR and for our shareholders.
Even allowing for the current fall in demand, wireless 
connectivity will continue to grow and our strategy is to 
position CSR to take advantage of this. Consumers want 
to communicate quickly and efficiently using devices 
that connect with one another easily and reliably. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
Revenue  $’000
2008
2007
2006
2005
694,865
848,622
704,695
486,531
underlying R&D Expenditure  $’000
2008
2007
2006
2005
152,749
140,932
107,252
59,425
David Tucker, who has served as a non-executive 
director since 2004, will retire at the AGM. I would like to 
thank David for his skills, insight and good humour over 
the last five years. David’s role as chair of the audit 
committee will be taken by Andrew Allner.
Outlook
Looking ahead, 2009 will undoubtedly be a difficult year. 
Consumer confidence is low, economic uncertainty high 
and determined global action by governments will be 
required in order to minimise the further impact of the 
downturn, while CSR fights to maintain market share 
and seek out opportunities for growth.
CSR will continue to work to safeguard and build upon 
the existing strengths and market leading positions 
which we have established. As Joep explains in more 
detail in his Chief Executive Officer’s statement, the 
strategic review we carried out in 2008 has set out a path 
for growth in exciting, high-potential markets.
We have excellent people who are executing a powerful 
strategy in a long term growth industry. I thank them for 
their continued support and commitment. Together, we 
face the long-term future with confidence in our potential.
Ron Mackintosh
Chairman
wireless connectivity  
is becoming an  
increasingl y core feature 
of our everyday lives.  
our strategy is to Position  
csr to take advantage  
of this and to strengthen 
our ability to do so
Ron Mackintosh, Chairman
05
Further appointments have also strengthened our 
executive team. As our new Global Head of Sales, 
Charlie Lesko has added valuable sales and marketing 
experience and a healthy amount of assertiveness to  
our sales organisation. Our new HR Director, Elaine 
Rowe, has similarly wide-ranging experience. Her 
appointment underpins the enormous value we place  
on our workforce.
We now have an accomplished and truly international 
team at CSR. I would like to extend my thanks on behalf 
of the Board for the continuing efforts which all our staff 
have made during 2008.
In October, we appointed Andrew Allner as a non-
executive director. Andrew is a chartered accountant 
with extensive experience in senior executive and 
non-executive positions. Between 2004 and 2007 he 
was Group Finance Director at RHM plc, and has also 
served in senior executive positions with other global 
and well respected listed companies. Andrew’s 
experience and qualities have been well received by  
his new Board colleagues.
