 Business review
14
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s 
review
Osman Shahenshah, 
Chief Executive and Founder Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
“ In 2012 we achieved record ﬁnancial results driven 
by strong production growth at our greenﬁeld 
development offshore Nigeria. We realised an 
E&A success ratio of 88% and a 2P reserves 
replacement ratio of 265%. We have started 
our 2013 multi-well E&A campaign with success 
at Okwok, offshore Nigeria, and Simrit-2 and 
Simrit-3, in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. With a 
track record of project delivery, exploration 
success and strategic acquisitions, we are well 
placed to continue to create signiﬁcant value for 
our shareholders.”
2012 was a period of major success for 
Afren and represents an important step in 
our journey and evolution. Over the past 
eight years Afren has positioned itself as 
the leading independent oil producer 
offshore Nigeria; built a track record as a 
skilled and efﬁcient fast-track developer of 
oil and gas assets; an agile deal-maker that 
is able to deliver signiﬁcant reserves and 
resource growth at a low cost; and is now 
demonstrating its credentials as an explorer, 
having delivered major success in 2012 and 
ongoing execution of a multi-well E&A 
drilling campaign across some of the world’s 
most prospective basins.
There are a number of key attributes that 
have enabled Afren to thrive, and form 
the foundations of our success. Whilst we 
have invested in assembling a world-class 
portfolio of assets, we have also invested 
in making sure that we have the right 
people in place to manage and operate the 
business, and that we prioritise long-term 
relationships with all of our stakeholders 
including local partners, host communities 
and governments alike, ahead of short-term 
gains. This long-term approach is what sets 
us apart, and coupled with our strategic 
foresight means that we have been able 
to access oil and gas plays in both new 
and established basins that are of genuine 
world-class quality while creating signiﬁcant 
value for our shareholders. 
US$ 9 35m
+1 7 7 %
Operating cash ﬂow
88%
E&A success ratio in 2012 Business review
16
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s review 
Continued
Proving our exploration credentials, 
delivering commercial success
This time last year we set out our exploration 
strategy, and the three play-based themes 
it is predicated on. Successful exploration 
remains one of the most efﬁcient ways of 
creating signiﬁcant value, but it requires 
capital, technology, knowledge and most 
importantly a high-quality and balanced 
portfolio of assets. At Afren, we believe 
that we have all of the necessary ingredients 
to be a successful explorer. Early results 
from our ongoing multi-well E&A drilling 
campaign have been highly encouraging, 
and we have multiple wells planned over 
the remainder of the year targeting over 
650 mmboe of net prospective resources.
1. Low-risk, quick to monetise 
opportunities in and around our 
core production and development 
areas in the Niger Delta and 
Kurdistan region of Iraq.
In 2012 we made three discoveries that 
have materially added to Afren’s discovered 
reserves and resource base. In Nigeria, the 
Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault 
Block discoveries represent high-value 
incremental development opportunities and 
we have already started production at both 
ﬁelds by utilising our existing infrastructure, 
ahead of implementing full ﬁeld development 
solutions that will add signiﬁcant new 
production capacity in the region. In the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq, the Simrit-2 discovery 
is a major step forward in unlocking the 
vast potential of the Ain Sifni PSC. Having 
achieved aggregate ﬂow rates of 18,952 
bopd on test from the Triassic Kurra Chine, 
Mus, Adaiyah and Butmah formations, 
we see this discovery as a transformational 
opportunity for Afren. Drilling on Simrit-3, 
exploring the eastern extent of the large 
Simrit aniticline is continuing and has 
successfully encountered hydrocarbon bearing 
intervals in the Cretaceous, Jurassic and 
Triassic reservoirs. A multi-zone testing 
programme across Simrit will be undertaken 
once drilling operations conclude.
We have got off to an excellent start in 2013 
with the successful appraisal of the Okwok 
discovery, and over the remainder of the year 
have further wells planned across the Ebok/
Okwok/OML 115 area and Ain Sifni PSC in 
order to de-risk further upside potential that 
we can rapidly commercialise and develop 
over the near to medium term.
There are risks associated with monetising 
our reserves in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, 
while ongoing discussions between the 
Kurdistan Regional Government and the 
Federal Government of Iraq continue. 
However, we believe our ﬁrst export is 
imminent and we will continue to monitor 
this situation in order to manage our risk 
proﬁle accordingly.
2. Moderate risk, proven play 
concepts that offer signiﬁcant upside 
along the West Africa Transform 
Margin and other parts of the region.
In 2012 we continued to mature our 
prospect inventory along the West Africa 
Transform Margin and Atlantic Margin, and 
in 2013 will participate in exploration wells 
at OPL 310 offshore south-west Nigeria 
and at the La Noumbi Block onshore 
Congo Brazzaville. 
3. Higher risk, play opening 
opportunities in the rift and coastal 
basins of East Africa.
2012 was a period of extensive data 
acquisition across our East African portfolio, 
when we acquired 3,483 km of 2D seismic 
and 2,262 km
2
 of 3D seismic together with 
1,193 km of aero-magnetic data. We have 
signiﬁcantly increased our net prospective 
resource volume across the region by 
176% to 5,838 mmboe, and are now in 
the process of selecting what prospects we 
plan to drill on each of our licences. Having 
already participated in our ﬁrst well onshore 
Kenya, over the next 18 months we will 
be drilling further wells in Kenya, Tanzania, 
Seychelles, Madagascar and Ethiopia. 
We may also look to actively manage our 
portfolio from a risk/reward perspective, 
and will consider farm-out opportunities 
as appropriate.
Strong production performance
The combined performance of our 
producing assets in 2012 yielded full year 
average production of c.43,000 boepd 
(compared to c.19,300 boepd in 2011) 
including associated volumes from OML 26. 
This strong production performance was 
driven by the year-on-year increase in net 
production from the Ebok and Okoro ﬁelds 
offshore Nigeria, where Afren is now the 
largest independent oil producer. During 
the period, the Company commenced 
production from the Okoro Field Extension 
offshore Nigeria within ten months of 
announcing the discovery and also initiated 
production from the Barda Rash ﬁeld in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq. In keeping with 
our fast-track development strategy we 
commenced production from the North Fault 
Block discovery in January 2013, just nine 
months after announcing the discovery. 
With a pipeline of large-scale development 
projects and multiple exploration and 
appraisal wells planned, the Company is well 
positioned to maintain production growth 
in 2013 and beyond.
Signiﬁcant reserves growth
2012 has been a year of continued reserves 
growth. We achieved an enviable E&A 
success ratio of 88% in the period, a 
testament to our growing credentials as a 
high-impact explorer. Our success with the 
drill bit in Nigeria has resulted in net 2P 
reserves additions of 39 mmbbls, representing 
a 265% 2P reserves replacement ratio, and 
increasing net 2P reserves to 210 mmboe.
Delivering excellent total 
shareholder return
In 2012 Afren’s Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) was 53%, representing an upper 
quartile performance versus our Main 
Market listed independent peer group. 
We outperformed the FTSE All Share and 
FTSE 350 Oil & Gas indices by 45% and 
65% respectively during the period. Since 
IPO to the end of 2012 we have delivered 
a TSR of 556%. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
17
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Making good progress towards 
our 2012 to 2015 business targets
Having expanded the business signiﬁcantly, 
we set out last year our business targets for 
the period 2012 to 2015, in alignment with 
our strategic vision and objectives. Targets 
to 2015 and the progress we made towards 
achieving them in 2012 are shown in the 
table below.
It is evident that Afren made signiﬁcant 
progress against its business objectives 
during the period, and we have carried 
this momentum into 2013.
Outlook
Looking to the year ahead we are well 
positioned for ongoing success and delivery 
against our business targets and strategic 
objectives. We will continue to de-risk our 
portfolio through a high-impact E&A 
campaign in established and new basins and 
will continue to target material growth in 
our reserves and production base. Through 
maintaining this balanced mix of production, 
development, appraisal and exploration 
activities and a rigorous capital allocation 
process, we are building a world-class 
reserves and resource base and delivering 
commercial results. 
With an exciting work programme in 2013 
encompassing both established and new 
basins we expect to further solidify our 
leading position in Nigeria, further demonstrate 
the quality of our asset base in the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq and open up new oil and 
gas basins in East Africa. With numerous 
opportunities for growth, 2013 promises 
to be another excellent year of achievement 
for Afren. 
Osman Shahenshah 
Chief Executive and Founder
Business target Progress in 2012
Continue to grow Afren’s presence in our core areas 
of activity and geological plays
Established Afren as the leading independent oil producer in Nigeria and a leading industry participant 
in both East Africa and the Kurdistan region of Iraq
Progressively transition a signiﬁcant portion of our 
existing 2C resource base into the 2P reserves category
Net 2P reserves growth in 2012 of 39 mmbbls, representing a 265% 2P reserves replacement ratio
Field Development Plan to be submitted at the Okwok ﬁeld, offshore Nigeria, in 2013 following successful 
E&A campaign conﬁrming management estimates of gross recoverable reserves of 52 mmbbls
Maintain valuation discipline by targeting 2P/2C 
additions at a cost of under US$4/bbl
The Company made no acquisitions in 2012, but did deliver the 2P reserves growth at a ﬁnding cost 
of US$1.5 per barrel
Discover 250 mmboe of net recoverable 2P/2C 
reserves and resources from our forward exploration 
drilling programme
The Company made three signiﬁcant discoveries in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of Iraq representing 
an E&A success ratio of 88%. Our discoveries in Nigeria have added net 2P reserves of 39 mmbbls. To date, 
our 2013 multi-well E&A campaign has delivered successful results on the Okwok appraisal in Nigeria and 
the Simrit exploration wells on the Ain Sifni PSC in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Both results are expected 
to further grow our reserves and resources base in 2013
Deliver year-on-year production growth Net production in 2012 increased by 123% year-on-year to 43,059 boepd (including OML 26)
Manage and optimise our production and development 
operations to maximise the core value of the business
Production at the Ebok ﬁeld increased by 276% year-on-year and at the Okoro ﬁeld by 7%
The Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault Block discoveries have both been brought onstream with 
early production wells via existing facilities, within ten months of announcement of discovery
Ensure that available capital is deployed in the most 
efﬁcient way and in alignment with our full cycle 
business requirements
2012 capital expenditure was in line with guidance at US$520 million, and balanced across the Company’s 
production, development, appraisal and exploration activities
Continually improve CR performance The Group prioritises CR performance. Whilst EHSS performance came in below expectations in 2012, 
measures have been put in place to drive continual improvement in future years
During the year the Group continued to participate in numerous community projects in its areas of operation. 
In Nigeria, our ongoing participation with the University of Uyo project has helped the Petroleum Engineering 
department to receive re-accreditation from COREN and NUC following earlier funding constraints. In Kenya, 
we are in our third year of a business skills and micro-credit scheme which provides six months of business 
training to three women’s co-operatives in Shimoni and Mtwapa. In the Kurdistan region of Iraq, we provided 
recreational and IT equipment to the Barda Rash Community and Youth Centre. This centre provides an 
important area for the local community to congregate and participate in social and educational classes 
556 %
Afren’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) since IPO
P20
Discover our strategy
