 Business review
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08
Chairman’s 
statement
Egbert Imomoh, 
Chairman 09
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
Our vision and strategic priorities
Afren’s vision is to be the leading 
independent E&P company in each of the 
areas in which we operate. We also aim to 
be recognised as the partner of choice by 
all of our stakeholders, and have created a 
balanced portfolio of high-quality upstream 
assets across the E&P value chain. 
In order to achieve our vision, we have 
clear strategic priorities that are focused on 
delivering growth and creating shareholder 
value in a responsible and efﬁcient way. 
High-impact exploration and 
appraisal drilling campaign 
delivering success
2012 was a year in which the Group enjoyed 
excellent exploration success. In Nigeria, the 
proximity to existing infrastructure of the 
Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault 
Block discoveries, means that we have been 
able to establish early production at both 
assets, and are very well positioned to 
leverage our detailed understanding of the 
subsurface and our development track 
record offshore south-east Nigeria as we 
progress full ﬁeld development solutions. 
In the Kurdistan region of Iraq we have 
made a truly world-class discovery with the 
Simrit-2 exploration well on the Ain Sifni PSC, 
and to date have tested aggregate light oil at 
a rate of 18,952 bopd. The latest test results 
continue to suggest excellent production 
capability and the transformational potential 
of this discovery to Afren. Drilling on the 
Simrit-3 well, exploring the eastern extent 
of the large scale is continuing with 
hydrocarbon intervals logged in the 
Cretaceous, Jurassic and Triassic reservoirs. 
Record ﬁnancial results
The Group beneﬁted from increased 
production and stability in the oil price 
environment in 2012, achieving record proﬁts 
of c.US$200 million on turnover of c.US$1,500
million. During the year we successfully 
completed a second Bond issue, proceeds 
of which were US$300 million before issue 
costs. The proceeds have been used to repay 
the Group’s US$200 million VTB/BNPP 
facility which was issued in connection with 
the acquisition of the Group’s interests in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq and for other corporate 
purposes. We continue to adopt a prudent 
approach to ﬁnancial management and have 
in place a ﬂexible capital structure that is 
supported by a cash-generative production base. 
Low-cost reserves growth
In 2012, we achieved a 2P reserves 
replacement ratio of 265%. This growth in 
reserves has been achieved through our 
exploration success in Nigeria. Following our 
successful E&A campaign at Okwok, offshore 
Nigeria, and at the Simrit discovery located 
on the Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq, 
we expect further growth in our reserves 
and resources base in 2013.
Following the completion of an independent 
assessment of the reserves and contingent 
resource potential of the Ogini and Isoko 
ﬁelds for First Hydrocarbon Nigeria (FHN), 
an Afren associate, in March 2013, 2P & 2C 
oil reserves and resources at the ﬁelds are 
estimated to be 135 mmbbls and 68 mmbbls 
respectively, representing a year-on-year 
increase in net 2P reserves carried by FHN 
of 231% and net 2P & 2C reserves and 
resources carried by FHN of 10%.
Key Performance Indicators
We measure the performance of the business 
with ﬁve KPIs that are designed to measure 
progress against our strategic objectives. 
In 2012 we achieved strong year-on-year 
performance. More information on our KPIs 
and 2012 performance is included on pages
22 to 23.
The Afren team
We have continued to witness a tightening 
recruitment market with demand and 
competition for skilled and experienced people 
increasing further during the past year. Afren’s 
growth and success revolves ﬁrst and foremost 
US$ 1 ,499
million
Record turnover in 2012
12 3 %
Increase in net working interest production 
year-on-year
26 5 %
2P reserves replacement ratio
“ Afren made excellent progress in 2012 across all fronts. We 
delivered record production and ﬁnancial results, and achieved 
signiﬁcant exploration success in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region 
of Iraq. With a high-quality portfolio located in some of the 
world’s most proliﬁc and emerging oil and gas basins, we have 
a rich opportunity set to enable us to grow our reserves base 
through a multi-well E&A drilling campaign in both established 
and new basins, funded by our growing production base. With 
robust cash ﬂows, a strong balance sheet and operational control 
on all key assets, we are well positioned to leverage our track 
record to deliver further growth in 2013 and beyond.” 
We have made a successful start to our 
2013 drilling campaign with the Okwok-10 
and Okwok-11 appraisal wells and in 
aggregate have encountered 256 ft of net 
oil pay in the ‘D’ series reservoirs. We will 
be looking to replicate this success offshore 
Nigeria with further wells planned across the 
Ebok/Okwok/OML 115 area and OPL 310 
over the remainder of the year. In East Africa, 
having spent the last two years acquiring 
substantial amounts of new seismic data, 
we are now moving ahead into an active 
phase of exploration drilling that will see us 
participate in multiple high-impact wells in 
the key rift and coastal basin plays, each of 
which has the potential to materially increase 
our discovered resource base. 
Record production levels in 2012
In 2012, net working interest production at 
the Group’s assets averaged c.43,000 boepd 
representing a year-on-year increase of 
123%. Our strong production performance 
was primarily driven by increased output at 
the Ebok ﬁeld and early production start-up 
from the Okoro Field Extension, both 
offshore Nigeria, within ten months of 
announcing the discovery. In the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq we initiated production 
operations at the Barda Rash ﬁeld and 
maintained stable output at the Group’s 
assets in Côte d’Ivoire.
We will continue to grow production by 
developing the existing production and appraisal 
opportunities within our portfolio, whilst also 
pursuing high-impact exploration targets 
across our three business units, Nigeria and 
other West Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration 
as well as the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Business review
10
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
around the quality and commitment of our 
people – and the values to which we all 
subscribe, namely professionalism, dedication, 
creativity and respect. In order to ensure that 
we can attract and retain the best people, 
we have in place a remuneration policy that 
is necessarily competitive within the industry, 
and rewards exceptional performance with a 
balance between short and long-term rewards 
and a comprehensive beneﬁts scheme. 
We continued to grow our team in 2012 
with 62 new arrivals joining us during the 
year. Our total workforce grew to 460, up 
28% year-on-year. We remain committed 
to developing local content in each of our 
operating areas and employ 190 people 
in Africa, of whom over 96% are local 
nationals. We will continue to evolve our 
employment practices and policies to ensure 
we are able to attract and retain the 
best talent, and are wholly committed to 
developing all our staff to their full potential.
Corporate responsibility
At Afren, we strive to be a responsible 
and transparent business. Our CR policies 
encompass our relationship with all 
stakeholders including shareholders, 
employees, contractors, local communities 
and host governments, as well as with the 
environments in which we work. To further 
demonstrate our commitment and to set 
visible benchmarks for our stakeholders, 
we intend to expand our CR reporting 
during 2013 using the Guidelines on 
Sustainability Reporting developed by 
the International Petroleum Industry 
Environmental Conservation Association 
(IPIECA) as the framework.
Our safety performance in 2012 proved to be 
below expectations as we recorded our ﬁrst 
fatality in Block 1, onshore Kenya, following 
a road trafﬁc accident involving one of our 
seismic contractors. We deeply regret the 
loss of this life and are very saddened by 
the effect this tragedy has had on the family 
involved. Following a full and thorough 
investigation into the incident, we have 
further strengthened measures in place with 
our contractors to ensure that the required 
standards of driver training and vehicle 
safety are met across all of our operations. 
During 2012 our Lost Time Injury Frequency 
(LTIF) increased to 0.53 from 0.22 in 2011. 
The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
however did improve, decreasing to 1.47 from 
1.96 in 2011. 
An achievement of note during the year 
was the award of Sword of Honour from 
the British Safety Council (BSC) for our 
operations in Côte d’Ivoire. This represents 
the culmination of several years’ work to 
establish a robust safety management system 
in our Côte d’Ivoire operations. Afren is 
continuing with the BSC Five Star Audit 
system for operations in both Côte d’Ivoire 
and Nigeria and will commence auditing 
in Kurdistan during the course of 2013.
In 2012 we continued to develop and 
implement social and economic capacity 
building programmes in our areas of activity. 
More information on our CR initiatives and 
performance in 2012 is included on pages 
56 to 65.
Managing risks to our business
The monitoring and management of risks 
to the business are integral to Afren’s 
organisational framework. We are constantly 
identifying and analysing potential risks that 
could adversely affect our ability to deliver 
against our objectives. 
We have a robust, solutions-based reporting 
system in place that enables the direct and 
timely reporting of risks to the Board of 
Directors. So that we can identify all risks 
to the delivery of our strategy early and 
put mitigation measures in place, we are 
continuing to enhance our risk management 
process and to embed it in the organisation. 
We are therefore cascading the management 
of risks to all organisational levels to reafﬁrm 
that everyone is responsible for managing 
those risks that may impact their day-to-day 
work. More information on our risk 
management and performance in 2012 
is included on pages 26 to 31.
Governance and the Board
Your Board is collectively responsible for 
the long-term success of Afren and for its 
overall strategic direction, its values and 
its governance. It provides the leadership 
necessary for the Company to meet its 
business objectives within the framework of 
its internal controls, while also discharging the 
Company’s obligations to its shareholders.
“ We remain committed to developing local content in 
each of our operating areas and employ 190 people 
in Africa, of whom over 96% are local nationals.”
Our governance principles
Independence
The independence of each of the 
Non-Executive Directors is considered 
upon appointment, annually and at any 
other time a Director’s circumstances 
change in a way that warrants 
reconsideration. Following a review of 
Board composition, the Company has 
reassessed the independence of all its 
Non-Executive Directors. It regards all as 
“independent” within the meaning of 
the term as deﬁned in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
Knowledge
Our Non-Executive Directors contribute 
international operational know-how and 
were chosen for their wide range of skills 
and experience. They understand the 
sectors in which we operate and have 
valuable knowledge of international 
capital markets. In addition, they bring 
in-depth understanding of the health, 
safety, environmental, political and 
community challenges we face.
Responsibility
The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters speciﬁcally reserved to it for 
decisions. Responsibility for developing 
and implementing the Group’s strategic 
and ﬁnancial objectives is delegated to 
the senior management of the Group. 
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are separate and the responsibilities of 
Chairman and Chief Executive are 
independently deﬁned.
P68
For more information on 
our corporate governance Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
11
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
As Chairman, I recognise that it is my role 
to provide the leadership to the Board to 
enable it to discharge its role effectively. 
The Board takes seriously its responsibility for 
promoting the Group’s values. We have a 
zero tolerance approach to corrupt practices, 
and we continue to keep our anti-corruption 
policies and practices under review to ensure 
that they fully reﬂect this approach.
It is our commitment as a Board to maintain 
a culture which expresses our core principles 
of respect, honesty and transparency. 
This is based on the recognition that good 
governance is fundamental to achieving our 
goal to create and protect value on behalf 
of the Company’s shareholders. We strive to 
demonstrate ethical leadership and promote 
the collective vision of the Group’s purpose, 
values, culture and behaviours. Good corporate 
governance is vital to achieving our objectives. 
We have formalised our focus on maintaining 
high ethical standards and strong personal 
integrity in our Group Code of Business 
Conduct, which is implemented across the 
business and clearly sets out expectations 
of how our employees and those who work 
for or on behalf of Afren, should behave. 
The Board sets the “tone from the top” 
and works with management to embed 
the values throughout the organisation.
Outlook
2012 saw record production and ﬁnancial 
performance combined with signiﬁcant 
exploration success in Nigeria and the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq. In 2013 we expect 
to further grow our reserves base through 
a multi-well exploration and appraisal drilling 
campaign in both established and new basins, 
funded by our growing production base. 
We are ﬁnancially well positioned with robust 
cash ﬂows, a strong balance sheet and the 
necessary ﬁnancial capacity and ﬂexibility 
to optimally explore and develop our 
high-quality portfolio of growth opportunities 
well into the future. There is much to look 
forward to in 2013 and beyond.
Egbert Imomoh 
Chairman
We are committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance and consider it critical for 
upholding our business integrity wherever we work 
around the world. 
The Board has been fully briefed on the new UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Key areas include annual re-election of all Directors, Board diversity, 
external evaluation, greater emphasis on risk, and a clear explanation 
of business model and strategy. We welcome these changes and are 
committed to complying with them.
Explore our governance in more detail
Board breakdown
P81
Audit and 
Risk Committee P80
Nomination 
Committee P85
Remuneration 
Committee 
Non-Executive Directors 5
Executive Directors 3
Chairman 1
5
3
1
Board experience
Oil and gas industry 6
Engineering 4
Finance 4
Capital markets 4
Accountancy 2
6
4
4
4
2
Mr Egbert Imomoh
Chairman
Dr Osman Shahenshah
Chief Executive
Mr Peter Bingham
Non-Executive Director
Mr Toby Hayward
Non-Executive Director
Mr Darra Comyn
Group Finance Director
Mr Ennio Sganzerla
Non-Executive Director
Mr Shahid Ullah
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Mr John St. John
Non-Executive Director
Mr Patrick Obath
Non-Executive Director
