 5 curidium annual report & accounts 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am very pleased to say that 2006 has seen signiﬁcant and very positive developments for 
Curidium Medica plc. Through the application of the Company’s Homomatrix
®
 technology, 
efforts to bring the right drug to the right patient have been substantially advanced.
within the biopharma industry to commercialise the 
resultant intellectual property. Curidium is now in the 
position to offer support in the area of drug discovery 
and development as well as provide unique and novel 
drug targets to the industry in the schizophrenia/bipolar 
disorder area. The Company naturally intends to broaden 
its efforts and is examining other diseases that could 
be amenable to Homomatrix
®
 analysis. 
Overall, the area of personalised medicine and targeted 
drug therapy is an exciting and expanding arena. While 
we believe that we are well positioned and poised to 
exploit our knowledge, expertise and Homomatrix
®
 
technology, we are aware that this is an area that will 
become increasingly competitive. 
Results The ﬁnancial results for the year ended 31
st
 
December 2006 were in line with our expectations 
and show a healthy increase of 147% in Research 
and Development expenditure to £304,712 (2005: 
£123,212). Losses before tax increased to £945,036 
(2005: £224,716) reﬂecting the increase in R&D and 
the costs of the reverse take over and associated 
private placing. Cash burn has been and is closely 
monitored and the Group consumed £627,290 cash 
in the year (2005: £245,049).
In closing, I would especially like to thank the directors 
and staff at Curidium for all of their hard work and 
commitment during this past year and to thank our 
shareholders for their ongoing support. I wish my 
successor Dr Gosse Bruinsma and all the staff best 
wishes for the future.
Simon Cartmell
30
th
 April 2007
In July, the reverse acquisition of Curidium Limited by 
Cielo Holdings plc was accomplished which resulted 
in the listing of the enlarged group on AIM. This was 
accompanied by a private placement, strengthening 
the ﬁnancial foundation of the Company. As the 
ﬁnal element of the transition to a public market a 
process was initiated to strengthen the executive 
management of Curidium. I am therefore delighted by 
the appointment of Dr Gosse Bruinsma as Executive 
Chairman. With signiﬁcant relevant clinical experience 
and as the former CEO of Axonyx Inc a specialist 
CNS focused, US listed biotech, Gosse brings the 
necessary experience to lead Curidium forward in 
the next stage of its growth. 
The development of Curidium’s core technology, 
Homomatrix
®
, was completed during the course of the 
year to the stage of being a fully automated data analysis 
system. Its applicability and unique approach to assess 
large gene expression datasets of heterogeneous patient 
populations was successfully validated in schizophrenia/
bipolar disorder patients. Homomatrix
®
 repeatedly 
showed that within these diseases there are in fact distinct 
and signiﬁcantly different subgroups of patients; each 
subgroup potentially responsive to different drugs or drug 
combinations. These ﬁndings are important as there is 
much concern at regulatory and pharmaco-economic levels 
that currently marketed drugs are wanting as many patients 
simply do not respond adequately to their prescribed 
treatment. Homomatrix
®
 analyses of gene expression 
data may lead to the development of diagnostic tools 
that in turn allow the prescription of the right drug to 
the diagnosed patient with consequent improvements 
in clinical outcome and cost effectiveness.
The Company is ﬁnalising its investigation and review 
of these exciting ﬁrst Homomatrix
®
 analysis results 
and has initiated a business development programme 
