 6 www.curidium.com
The test is aimed to help drug prescribers, such 
as psychiatrists, to select the most effective drug 
treatment for a patient; an approach that should beneﬁt 
both patients as well as healthcare payers. This is an 
exciting development as drugs presently used to treat 
heterogeneous human diseases, such as schizophrenia 
or bipolar disorder, are often effective in only a minority 
of patients and may cause serious side effects. 
Curidium, using its core technology, Homomatrix
®
, to 
analyse gene expression proﬁles, initially demonstrated 
the existence of four different patient groups in the brain 
samples (obtained post-mortem) from two independent 
cohorts of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder patients. These 
subgroups were found to be represented by four statistically 
signiﬁcantly different gene expression proﬁles. 
We extended these studies of brain samples by 
investigating samples of blood from schizophrenia and 
bipolar disorder patients with the aim to develop: 
1.  A diagnostic blood test that could provide physicians 
with information on the patient subgroup a patient 
belongs to, and
2.  A guide, for physicians, as to which drug would most 
likely be effective for each patient, and 
3.  A tool to help the pharmaceutical industry develop 
novel and effective drug treatments for speciﬁc 
patient groups
During 2006, Curidium has invested its resources towards the development of a diagnostic 
blood test that could enable the classiﬁcation of a schizophrenia or bipolar disorder patient 
into one of four different patient subgroups. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Figure 1: 3-D Overview of the Four Different 
Schizophrenia / Bipolar Disorder Patient Subgroups 
as Identiﬁed in Blood Samples.
Schizophrenia/bipolar disorder patients, characterised 
by their different gene expression proﬁles in blood, 
have been mapped in a 3-D space. The subgroups 
have been indicated in different colours. 
The gene expression profiles of the subgroups, 
identiﬁed using Curidium’s Homomatrix
®
 technology, 
were found to be statistically signiﬁcantly different. 
The analysis of the blood samples again identiﬁed four 
distinct patient subgroups (see Figure 1) with statistically 
signiﬁcantly different gene expression proﬁles (Figure 2). 
We believe that this is the ﬁrst time that the existence 
of four distinct subgroups has been demonstrated 
using gene expression proﬁles in blood samples of 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder patients. Figure 1 7 curidium annual report & accounts 2006
We are now studying the gene networks and disease mechanisms that underlie the speciﬁc 
expression proﬁles for each of the patient subgroups in order to identify the most suitable 
drug targets for each. This approach may lead to the development of drugs that can 
speciﬁcally and effectively treat the different patient groups.
 
Figure 2: Overview of the Different Gene Expression 
Proﬁles in Blood Samples from Schizophrenia / 
Bipolar Patients
Graphic overview of the different blood gene 
expression proﬁles found in schizophrenia/ bipolar 
disorder patients.
Each bar represents a gene whose expression is 
altered in that patient subgroup. The colours indicate 
the different gene clusters a gene belongs to, which 
in turn may indicate different gene networks and 
mechanisms involved in a subgroup. 
A selection of these genes will be used for the development 
of a blood diagnostic test that may be used to classify a 
patient in one of the four patient subgroups. 
As the regulatory agencies and pharmaco-economic 
pressures increasingly call for more effective drugs, we 
believe that “personalised” or “targeted” medicines 
represent the next generation of drugs. 
We, at Curidium, have set out to fully exploit our core 
Homomatrix
®
 technology to develop, in partnership 
with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, 
targeted medicines for speciﬁc patient subgroups for 
a range of heterogeneous human diseases, including 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. 
Finally, 2006 has been an important year for Curidium 
with the completion of the reverse takeover by Cielo 
Holdings and Curidium Medica’s listing on AIM. 
The newly raised funds have allowed the Company 
to automate, and validate Homomatrix
®
, and to 
initiate the execution of our business strategy as 
well as strengthen our position as a personalised 
medicine company.
These successes have called for an expansion of 
Curidium’s management team and board of directors 
and I am very pleased with the arrival of Dr Gosse 
B. Bruinsma as Executive Chairman and Dr Phyllis 
Whiteley as non-executive director of Curidium 
Medica plc. I am indebted to our outgoing chairman, 
Simon Cartmell, who I would like to thank for his 
commitment and efforts over the past three years 
supporting the growth of the Company from its 
very early stages. I wish him all the best in his other 
healthcare endeavours.
Anne T. Bruinvels, PhD
CEO
30
th
 April 2007 Figure 2
“2006 has been an important year for Curidium…”
A B C D
