 Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10
Strategic report
 “2013 was another strong year for Afren. 
We enjoyed record revenues and cash flow 
underpinned by strong production from our 
greenfield developments offshore Nigeria. 
We continue to achieve industry-leading 
exploration success and have materially 
enhanced the business with the basin-opening 
discovery at Ogo, one of the largest discoveries 
in the world in 2013. ”
Egbert Imomoh  
Chairman
In just nine years we have made a remarkable 
transition from an AIM start-up into an 
established ‘mid-cap’ independent, through 
our ability to identify opportunities early, 
use our technical capability, and achieve 
sustainable production and reserves growth 
responsibly. With an established portfolio of 
significant scale giving us leadership across 
our three business units, we are now in a 
strong position to build on these foundations 
for the next phase of our growth. I am 
confident that we will continue to create 
significant value for our shareholders.
Exceptional exploration  
and appraisal success
For Afren, 2013 was another year of exceptional 
exploration and appraisal (E&A) achievement. 
The highlight for the year was the basin-opening 
discovery at the Ogo-1 well, located on the 
OPL 310 licence offshore Nigeria. The well 
encountered light oil and condensate rich 
gas in a four way dip closed structure and 
light oil/condensate in the syn-rift, with 
estimated P50 gross recoverable resources 
significantly ahead of pre-drilling expectations 
at 774 mmboe. The discovery at Ogo was 
one of the largest in the world in 2013, 
and the largest in Nigeria for over a decade, 
a testament to our growing exploration 
credentials. The Partners have commenced a 
detailed marine 3D seismic programme ahead 
of planned appraisal drilling. We are very 
excited about the long-term prospects for 
Ogo and the other prospects on the block.
Elsewhere, in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, 
following the world-class discovery at the 
Simrit-2 well (1,509 ft of net oil pay and 
aggregate flow rates of 19,641 bopd) in 2012, 
we completed drilling on the Simrit-3 well, 
confirming the eastern extent of the Simrit 
anticline and achieved a cumulative test rate 
of 6,293 bopd. Following the declaration 
of commerciality, the Partners expect to 
submit a Field Development Plan in Q1 2014, 
and remain on-track to deliver incremental 
growth in our reserves and resources base 
in 2014. The Maqlub-1 exploration well, 
testing the high potential Maqlub structure 
on the block, is currently drilling ahead, 
and has encountered hydrocarbons in the 
Cretaceous and Jurassic reservoirs. We have 
an exciting E&A campaign planned over 
the next 12 months that will be targeting 
1,237 mmboe in net resources across 
proven petroleum systems in established 
and frontier basins.
 C ha i r m a n ’ s sta te me n t Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
Strategic report
Active portfolio management
As part of our commitment to creating 
sustainable value for shareholders, we 
constantly review and evaluate the balance 
of our portfolio to ensure an optimal 
allocation of resources and capital, targeting 
projects with the highest cash returns. 
In May 2013, we completed the acquisition 
of an additional 10.4% beneficial interest in 
First Hydrocarbon Nigeria Company Limited 
(FHN) to the original 45% interest, for a total 
consideration of some US$37 million. This 
enabled us to consolidate the holding of FHN’s 
reserves and production as a subsidiary and 
augment our existing offshore position in Nigeria 
by acquiring an attractive onshore portfolio 
of scale, with net reserves and resources of 
433 mmboe (including management estimates 
of additional 2C upside of 144 mmboe), capable 
of delivering incremental growth of 18,000 
bopd net to Afren by 2016. FHN’s portfolio 
also includes the offshore Aje field, which is 
contiguous to the OPL 310 block and which 
has previously tested at commercial rates. 
In July 2013, Afren further increased its holding 
in FHN by acquiring an additional 23.3% 
beneficial interest, increasing our effective 
holdings at the end of December 2013 to 78%. 
The acquisitions have been achieved at accretive 
multiples of under US$2.0/2P & 2C bbl, and we 
look forward to working closely with NPDC to 
further increase production and undertake an 
extensive appraisal and exploration programme 
on the portfolio. 
In August 2013, we completed the sale of our 
net interest in the CI-11 block and Lion Gas 
Plant to Petroci, realising a provisional profit 
on disposal of US$25.3 million. The assets 
have afforded Afren a stable production 
and cash-generative base, but we deemed 
them to be non core to our operations due 
to the competing capital demands of other 
higher return projects in the portfolio. Since 
acquisition, the CI-11 block and Lion Gas Plant 
have delivered net operating cash flow of 
over US$150 million. 
Record financial performance 
driven by a high-quality,  
oil-focused production  
and development base
I am delighted to report that Afren achieved 
record revenues and cash flow in 2013, 
driven by the 7.5% year-on-year growth 
in net production to 47,112 boepd and 
continued strength and stability in the oil 
price environment. We achieved record 
turnover of US$1.64 billion and generated 
operating cash flows of over US$1.22 billion.
Profit after tax of US$475 million was 
influenced by the achievement of a tax 
exemption relating to the Ebok field, largely 
offset by additional post-cost recovery 
amounts due to other participants in the field.
Our main production base, in Nigeria, 
continues to perform strongly and ahead 
of pre start-up expectations. Furthermore, 
following our successful exploration 
campaign in 2012 and 2013, we remain on 
track to commence the Okoro Further Field 
Development, Ebok North Fault Block and 
Okwok in 2014, all of which are expected 
to generate high-margin cash flow for the 
Group. These new developments, alongside 
the ongoing ramp-up in production from 
OML 26, onshore Nigeria, and the Barda Rash 
PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq, will contribute 
towards delivering double-digit production 
growth over the next five years.
Progressive de-risking of  
a material resource base
In 2013, we achieved a 2P reserves 
replacement ratio of 201%, following the 
approval of the Okwok FDP in January 2014. 
We expect our 2014 development and E&A 
campaign to further de-risk our material 
resource base of 810 mmboe net contingent 
resources and 10,031 mmboe net prospective 
resources, as we look to move these assets 
along the value chain and so produce 
sustainable growth in organic reserves.
Well-funded and strong 
balance sheet
The Group is in a strong position, with net debt 
of US$739 million supported by a stable cash-
generative production base that we expect 
to fund our work programme. We expect 
capital expenditure for 2014 to be US$845 
million and focus both on projects with high 
cash return, and further exploration drilling.
During the year the Group successfully 
extended the maturity of its liabilities and 
lowered the cost of its debt following the 
refinancing of the Ebok facility and a tender 
offer for our Senior Secured notes, funded by 
a new bond issue with a longer term and a 
lower interest rate. We have also significantly 
improved our forward cash tax position 
following the award of a five-year tax 
exemption at the Ebok field in Nigeria from 
mid-2011 to mid-2016. The tax exemption 
at Ebok was awarded in recognition of the 
positive contribution that independents such 
as Afren in partnership with local indigenous 
operators have made to the development 
of the oil and gas sector in Nigeria. The tax 
exemption has enabled us to increase capex 
Mr Egbert Imomoh 
Chairman N
 
Dr Osman Shahenshah  
Executive Director
Mr Shahid Ullah 
Executive Director
Mr Darra Comyn 
Executive Director
Mr Peter Bingham 
Non-Executive Director A
 
R
 
Mr John St. John 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 
Non-Executive Director A
 
N
 
R
Mr Toby Hayward 
Non-Executive Director A
 
N
 
R
 
Mr Patrick Obath 
Non-Executive Director A
 
R
 
Ms Sheree Bryant 
Non-Executive Director N
A Audit and Risk Committee
R Remuneration Committee
N Nomination Committee
Board of Directors  
and committees Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12
Strategic report
at Ebok in 2014 and 2015 in line with our 
objective of allocating capital towards the 
highest cash return projects.
Also during the year, we reached agreement 
with our Partner on the Ebok field to secure 
future capital allowances and other benefits 
with a value of US$300 million. This agreement 
means the Group has secured the full benefit 
from its capital expenditure.
We continue to maintain an open-dialogue 
with the relevant authorities and during 2013 
we paid circa US$400 million in royalties and 
taxes in Nigeria.
An exceptional team  
of people
Afren’s growth and success is principally 
due to the professionalism, creativity and 
commitment of our people. To ensure we 
can attract and retain the best people, our 
remuneration is competitive, encouraging 
exceptional performance with a balance of 
short and long-term rewards, and offering 
comprehensive benefits. We continued to grow 
our team in 2013, with 58 new appointments 
taking our total workforce to 424, of whom 
the vast majority are local nationals. We will 
continue to evolve our employment practices 
and policies to ensure we are able to attract 
and retain the best talent. 
Working responsibly 
Corporate responsibility (CR) is one of the 
five strategic priorities we have identified to 
ensure we achieve our vision, objective and 
strategy. Our approach is to apply guiding 
frameworks such as those provided by the 
industry association IPIECA, to develop 
a corporate responsibility strategy tailored 
to the particular requirements of the countries 
we operate in. 
We have identified five key areas of focus 
to achieve our aim of being a responsible 
business at all times, these are – environment 
and climate change, health and safety, 
communities, business conduct and people. 
We have developed policies, systems and key 
performance indicators for each of these key 
areas. We monitor this information regularly 
at a senior level throughout the business, and 
it is a topic of discussion at Board and senior 
management meetings. 
We are in constant dialogue with shareholders 
and other stakeholders concerning our 
corporate responsibility performance; 
this information exchange is important 
to developing our approach. In the first half 
of 2014 we intend to further develop the 
corporate responsibility section of our website 
so it contains a report in line with the latest 
reporting guidelines. We also aim to develop 
our reporting through mechanisms such 
as the Carbon Disclosure Project. 
We include more information on our 
CR initiatives and performance in 2013 
on pages 62 to 73.
Effective risk management 
Monitoring and managing risks to the 
business are integral to Afren’s activities. 
We constantly identify and analyse potential 
risks that could adversely affect our ability 
to achieve our objectives and we have a 
robust and effective system for reporting 
these to the Board. We continue to 
enhance our risk management process and 
its effectiveness within the organisation, 
so we can identify all risks early and put 
mitigation measures in place, and to ensure 
we are fully equipped to deal with our 
constantly evolving operating and business 
environment. We are communicating the 
need to manage risks to all organisational 
levels, to reaffirm that everyone is 
responsible for managing risks that may 
affect their day-to-day work. 
Board changes
I am pleased to announce that we have 
strengthened our Board this year with the 
appointment of Ms Sheree Bryant, the first 
female director appointed to our Board. 
Ms Bryant, who is also a member of the 
Nomination Committee, joined in October 
2013, and brings to the Board valuable 
experience of leading and developing various 
corporate responsibility initiatives, a key 
priority as we increase our operational and 
social footprint. 
Governance
Our collective responsibility as a Board is to 
promote the long-term success of the Group, 
providing entrepreneurial leadership within the 
framework of prudent and effective controls. 
I firmly believe that high standards of corporate 
governance are central to achieving this 
success in a responsible manner that takes 
account of the interests of all our stakeholders. 
Our focus on maintaining high ethical 
standards and strong personal integrity is 
formalised in our Group Code of Business 
Conduct. This is implemented across the 
business and sets out clear expectations of how 
our employees and those who work on behalf 
of Afren should behave. The Board sets the 
tone, and works with management to establish 
these values throughout the organisation.
A clear strategy and 
a positive outlook
This time last year I wrote that Afren had 
a bright future ahead after an outstanding 
2012. We continued to make remarkable 
progress in 2013 towards our vision to be 
a leading major independent exploration 
and production company. Our excellent 
performance is due to strong leadership by 
our Chief Executive Osman Shahenshah, his 
executive colleagues and all our employees, 
who are committed to building a high-quality, 
value-driven enterprise. We are in great shape 
and gearing up for an exciting new phase 
of growth, underpinned by strong cash flows 
and financial flexibility, to optimally explore 
and develop our high quality portfolio well 
into the future.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank 
our shareholders for their continued support.
Egbert Imomoh  
Chairman
 C h a i rm a n ’ s sta t e me n t continued Governance P74
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
Strategic report
Governance Board
We are committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance 
and consider it critical for upholding 
our business integrity wherever 
we work around the world. 
The Board has been fully briefed on the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and are 
committed to complying with it.
Our governance principles
Independence 
The independence of each of the Non-Executive 
Directors is considered upon appointment, annually 
and at any other time a Director’s circumstances 
change in a way that warrants reconsideration. 
Following a review of Board composition, 
the Company has reassessed the independence 
of all its Non-Executive Directors. It regards all as 
“independent” within the meaning of the term 
as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Knowledge 
Our Non-Executive Directors contribute international 
operational know-how and were chosen for their 
wide range of skills and experience. They understand 
the sectors in which we operate and have valuable 
knowledge of international capital markets. 
In addition, they bring in-depth understanding 
of the health, safety, environmental, political and 
community challenges we face.
Responsibility 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved to it for decisions. Responsibility 
for developing and implementing the Group’s 
strategic and financial objectives is delegated to 
the senior management of the Group. The roles 
of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and 
the responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are independently defined.
Board of Directors by gender
Male 90%
Female 10%
Board composition
Non-Executive Directors 6
Executive Directors 3
Chairman 1
Board experience
Oil and Gas Industry 6
Engineering 4
Finance and Accounting 4
Capital Markets 4
Environmental & Community 2
For more information see:
P78
Mr Egbert Imomoh
Chairman
Dr Osman Shahenshah 
Chief Executive
Mr Shahid Ullah 
Chief Operating Officer
Mr Darra Comyn 
Group Finance Director
Mr Peter Bingham 
Non-Executive Director
Mr John St. John 
Non-Executive Director
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 
Non-Executive Director
Mr Toby Hayward 
Non-Executive Director
Mr Patrick Obath 
Non-Executive Director
Ms Sheree Bryant 
Non-Executive Director 
