 Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16
Strategic report
Afren’s business continues to go from strength 
to strength following a significant number 
of operational successes during 2013. Here, 
the Chief Executive Osman Shahenshah 
answers investors’ questions.
Osman Shahenshah  
Chief Executive and Founder
How would you summarise 
Afren’s performance in 2013?
2013 was another exceptional year for Afren, 
and a continued validation of our business 
model and growth strategy. We have 
achieved record results and performed well 
against the KPIs and Performance metrics 
we use to assess the strength of our business. 
Our Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for the period 
was 23%, representing an upper quartile 
performance compared to the FTSE 350 
Oil & Gas Index, a significant achievement 
given the ongoing market turbulence, and 
the net equity outflows in the E&P sector. 
It is worth noting that since listing in 2005, 
we have achieved a TSR of 746%, significantly 
outperforming both the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 
and FTSE All Share indices. 
A number of factors enable Afren’s continued 
success. While we have assembled a world-
class portfolio of assets, we have also invested 
in making sure we have the right people to 
manage and operate them. We also prioritise 
long-term relationships with local Partners, host 
communities and governments, ahead of short-
term gains. With a record of project delivery, 
strategic acquisitions and maturing exploration 
credentials, we are well placed to continue 
to create significant value for our shareholders.
What were the year’s 
operational highlights?
There have been a number of significant 
highlights this year. Of particular note is the 
continued E&A success. We achieved industry-
leading exploration success and a 2P reserves 
replacement ratio in 2013 of 201 %, a testament 
to our ability to grow organic reserves and de-risk 
our opportunity-rich portfolio. 
In Nigeria, the basin-opening discovery at Ogo 
was one of the largest in the world in 2013 
and the largest in Nigeria for over a decade. 
P50 gross recoverable resources at the field are 
estimated to be 774 mmboe, significantly larger 
than our pre-drill estimates of 202 mmboe. 
We plan to drill an appraisal well in the second 
half of 2014, ahead of a planned development. 
We also enjoyed significant exploration and 
appraisal success in Kurdistan, with the Simrit-2 
well on the Ain Sifni PSC achieving aggregate 
flow rates of 19,641 bopd. The Simrit-3 well, 
exploring the eastern extent of the large scale 
Simrit anticline, completed a multi-zone testing 
programme resulting in a cumulative rate 
of over 6,000 bopd. Following the declaration 
of commerciality on the block, we expect to 
further grow our reserves and resources base 
in the region in 2014. The Maqlub-1 exploration 
well, testing the high-potential Maqlub structure 
on the block, is currently drilling ahead, and has 
 Chief Executive’s review Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
Strategic report
encountered hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous 
and Jurassic reservoirs. Early results from our 
ongoing multi-well E&A drilling campaign have 
been encouraging, and we have multiple wells 
planned over the remainder of the year targeting 
1,237 mmboe of net prospective resources.
2013 was also a year of strong production 
growth, which has led to record financial 
results for the Group. The combined 
performance of our producing assets yielded 
a year-on-year net production growth of 
7.5% to 47,1 12 boepd, at the top end of 
our 2013 guidance. Our main producing 
assets in Nigeria, the Ebok and Okoro fields, 
offshore Nigeria, continue to perform ahead 
of expectations and we remain on track to 
ramp up production from the Barda Rash PSC, 
Kurdistan region of Iraq, and OML 26, onshore 
Nigeria. Our discoveries in 2012 and 2013 have 
laid the foundations for an exciting phase of 
development that will ensure Afren delivers 
double-digit growth over the next five years.
How do you view the 
balance of the portfolio?
Balance is a very important concept. We believe 
our portfolio offers an attractive mix of near, 
medium and long-term growth opportunities, 
spanning the full E&P value chain. It is this 
balance which differentiates us from our 
peers and which has enabled us to establish 
a leading position across each of our main 
areas of operation. Our growth ambitions 
are underpinned by a disciplined approach 
to financial management and capital allocation. 
How would you characterise 
Afren’s exploration strategy?
We have constructed our exploration 
portfolio around play-based themes, with 
an emphasis on blending exposure across:
•  Low-risk opportunities that are quick 
to monetise, in and around our major 
production and development areas in the 
Niger delta and the Kurdistan region of Iraq
•  Moderate-risk, proven-play concepts that 
offer significant upside along the West 
African Transform Margin and other parts 
of the region
•  Higher-risk, play-opening opportunities 
in the rift and coastal basins of East Africa.
We believe that technical maturity of an 
asset is key to reducing risk and uncertainty, 
and we use available technologies and data 
to minimise pre-drill risks and maximise our 
chance of a successful drilling outcome. 
We also look to manage our portfolio 
from a risk/reward perspective, and will 
consider farm-in and farm-out opportunities 
as appropriate.
What are your current 
objectives for the  
Ogo discovery?
We are aiming for further appraisal 
drilling in the second half of 2014, and in 
preparation for this we will gather additional 
3D marine seismic to augment our existing 
seismic database. The discovery at Ogo has 
significantly increased Afren’s net prospective 
resource and provides a platform to develop 
a major new production hub in a previously 
under-developed region of the West African 
Transform Margin. We are excited about the 
prospects for Ogo and the neighbouring 
OML 113 field, which we will also be drilling 
this year, and look forward to working with 
our Partners in realising the potential of this 
significant discovery. 
How do you see the 
East Africa portfolio 
changing?
East Africa remains an exciting region for 
Afren. Since assembling the portfolio we have 
successfully acquired and interpreted over 
11,500 km of 2D seismic, 4,976 km
2
 of 3D 
seismic and 25,580 km of gravity-magnetic 
data. The results of this work have enabled us 
to increase our net prospective resources from 
2,113 mmboe to 8,501 mmboe, representing 
a fourfold increase since acquisition. Following 
a period of evaluation at Block 10A, Kenya, 
the Partners elected to relinquish the acreage 
in late 2013. We have matured ready-to-drill 
prospects on the Tanga block in Tanzania 
and L17/L18 and Block 1 in Kenya, which 
we expect to drill in 2014. 
US$1.22bn 
+25%
Operating cash flow Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18
Strategic report
What do you see as your 
main challenges?
There is intensified pressure on the price of 
oil, mainly due to expansion in US oil and gas 
production, and continued political unrest in 
the Middle East. This remains a factor, though 
the jurisdictions we operate in and sell to 
have continued to see high demand, and 
sales remain strong. To mitigate the effects 
of negative oil price movements, we maintain 
an active hedging strategy, described in the 
Financial Review. Furthermore, the benefits 
of operating in favourable economic 
environments mean our projects could 
continue to break even, at significantly lower 
oil price levels.
Another major challenge is operating 
an international company, which means 
exposure to local political change. Managing 
this issue remains a high priority, and we 
ensure all parties we work with pay close 
attention to it. We are also committed 
to complying to the highest standards of 
governance and we will continue to work 
to achieve the high standards expected 
of a large mid-cap oil company. 
Will you continue to make 
acquisitions in 2014?
Well, the key here is our quest to maximise 
shareholder value. While we continue to add 
resources and reserves organically, we always 
consider new opportunities if we can see 
clear potential at an attractive price, and if 
they fit with our strategic objectives. Our 
acquisitions to date illustrate our forward-
thinking approach, and ability to enter new 
territories ahead of peers.
What were the recent key 
corporate responsibility 
highlights for the business? 
Corporate responsibility matters are a very 
important aspect of our business and directly 
linked to our licence to operate. We are 
always looking for ways to improve our 
approach and performance. For example, 
at our Ebok field, we recently began injecting 
gas back into the ground rather than flaring 
it. We’re looking at ways of extending this 
initiative around the business. 
As for business conduct, we believe the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
(EITI) is important as it encourages 
transparency of revenues and transactions 
between host governments and natural 
resource companies. Consequently, we have 
decided to become a corporate supporter 
of the organisation. 
We also continue to work closely with local 
communities to encourage the sharing of 
economic wealth and the building of local 
capacity. Our community relations teams are 
involved in a wide range of education, health 
and job creation initiatives. You can find 
information about these on our website.
What steps are you taking to 
ensure the highest standards 
of corporate governance?
We will continue to improve our standards of 
governance. This year, we have strengthened 
the Board with the appointment of 
Ms Sheree Bryant who brings to the Board 
a balanced and unique perspective on 
corporate responsibility and community 
development, as we look to expand our 
footprint across Africa and the Middle East.
What is Afren’s growth 
strategy in the medium term?
Our targets to 2015 remain those we 
set out in 2011, and we are well on our 
way to achieving these, as shown in the 
table opposite. Essentially our strategy is 
to continue to grow our presence in the 
main areas of our activity, while ensuring 
we deploy capital in the most efficient way 
in relation to our full business cycle, and 
optimising our production and development 
operations for maximum value. Technically, 
in that time frame from 2012-2015, 
we set out to discover 250 mmboe of net 
recoverable 2P & 2C reserves and resources 
from our forward exploration drilling 
programme; to maintain valuation discipline 
by targeting 2P & 2C additions at a cost 
of under US$4/bbl; and to progressively 
evolve a significant portion of our existing 
2C resource base into the 2P reserves 
category. All this activity is underpinned 
by aiming for the highest standards of 
governance and by continually improving 
our CR performance. 
It is evident that Afren made significant 
progress toward its business objectives, 
during the period, and we have carried 
this momentum into 2014.
What will the Company’s 
main focus be in 2014?
In simple terms, we will continue to create 
exceptional shareholder value using our 
technical and financial strengths. Our drilling 
success over the past two years has created 
a unique opportunity set from which 
we can organically grow production and 
cash flows. Accordingly, we have a busy 
work programme planned for 2014, both 
in development and in exploration and 
appraisal. I am confident that Afren has the 
right team, the right approach, and the right 
assets and funding in place to continue our 
record of delivering operational success and 
creating significant shareholder value.
Osman Shahenshah  
Chief Executive and Founder
 Chief Executive’s review continued Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
Strategic report
Business target Progress in 2013 Outlook for 2014
Continue to grow Afren’s 
presence in our main 
areas of activity and 
geological plays.
We are an established leading independent oil 
producer in Nigeria and a leading industry participant 
in East Africa and the Kurdistan region of Iraq. 
We have 25 assets in 10 countries.
We continue to build upon the successes we  
have achieved in each of our three business units, 
through our operational expertise and our  
partner relationships. 
Progressively convert a 
significant portion of our 
existing 2C resource base 
into 2P reserves.
We achieved net 2P reserves growth of 34.1 mmbbls 
in the year following the successful E&A campaign at 
Okwok and extension of cost recovery at Ebok. This 
has resulted in a 2P reserves replacement ratio in 
2013 of 201%. 
In addition to the approval expected on the FDP 
submitted on OML 26, we recently submitted a 
declaration of commerciality on Ain Sifni. These are 
expected to further grow our reserves and resources 
base in 2014. 
Discover 250 mmboe of 
net recoverable 2P & 2C 
reserves and resources 
from our forward 
exploration drilling 
programme by 2015.
We achieved a world-class exploration success 
in 2013. This is attributable to the three significant 
discoveries in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of 
Iraq. Our discovery in Nigeria has organically added 
net 2P reserves of 26.4 mmbbls. Since 2012, 
we have successfully added 73.1 mmbbls of net 2P 
& 2C reserves and resources and are well on our way 
to achieve our target of 250 mmboe net recoverable 
2P & 2C reserves and resources by 2015.
In 2014 we will target 1,237 mmboe of net 
prospective resources. This is in adherence to our 
strategy of focusing on:
•  Exploration in proven areas which are low risk and 
easy to monetise (Ebok in Nigeria and Barda Rash 
in the Kurdistan region of Iraq).
•  Moderate-risk proven plays that offer significant 
upside (OPL 310 in Nigeria).
•  Higher-risk, play-opening opportunities 
in East Africa (Tanga in Tanzania, Block 1 in Kenya). 
Grow production  
year-on-year.
Like-for-like net production in 2013 increased by 
7.5% to 47,1 12 boepd. This was at the upper end 
of our production guidance.
Following cost recovery on Ebok, we expect net 
production in 2014 to average approximately 
40,000 boepd. 
Manage and optimise 
our production and 
development operations 
to maximise the value 
of the business.
Production at the Ebok field increased by 16% 
year-on-year and at Okoro field increased by 7%.  
At Okoro, production operations have run seamlessly 
in 2013, with significant progress being made 
on the Okoro Further Field Development. At Ebok,  
three production wells were brought on stream 
in record time. 
In 2014 we are looking to build on our strong 
operating base at Ebok and Okoro. Having reached 
cost recovery on two greenfield developments they 
are now self-funding and able to generate 
sustainable long-term value for shareholders.
Ensure available capital 
is deployed in the most 
efficient way and to suit 
our full cycle business 
requirements. 
Capital expenditure in 2013 was in line with  
guidance at US$716 million, and balanced across  
our production, development, appraisal and 
exploration activities.
Capital expenditure for 2014 is expected to be 
approximately US$845 million and focuses both  
on high cash return projects and further  
exploration drilling.
Continually improve 
CR performance.
We performed exceptionally well in 2013, achieving, 
and in some cases exceeding, our targets.
We intend in 2014 to significantly enhance our 
reporting on corporate responsibility issues, 
recognising the increasing interest from our 
stakeholders in these matters. 
