 Chief Executive’s Review
“Organic and acquisition growth by our core vehicle-based
telematics businesses added to significant specialised and
maritime project wins places Cybit at the very core of
specialist positioning services on an international level.”
Operating Review
This has been another excellent year for
Cybit. A combination of increased market
take-up and the benefits of scale achieved
through recent acquisitions have allowed the
Group to make major progress over the past
twelve months.
As announced at the interim results, we now
operate within three business areas: Vehicle
T elematics, Private Mobile Radio (PMR) and
Maritime Solutions.
Vehicle T elematics
With the cost of fuel increasing almost daily,
customers of all sizes are starting to
appreciate the significant tangible and
intangible benefits that can be derived
through use of our telematics based
solutions. The delivery of focused business
information allows our customers to reduce
operating costs and improve efficiencies.
Our solutions include a range of tools 
that help our customers comply with 
the increasing legislative, taxation and
compliance burden that is associated with
operating a remote workforce. Our extended
capabilities include detailed vehicle
performance analysis through real-time
delivery and processing of detailed or
summary CANbus data.
Although increasingly competitive, the
market for our solutions is continuing to grow
at both the simple and complex levels.
In the more complex sector, we have
focused on gaining a better understanding 
of both the functional and business
requirements of organisations within our core
markets and we are starting to achieve
notable successes. Based on market
estimates, we believe that Cybit has an
approximate 15–20% market share of the
installed telematics marketplace in the UK.
Our research indicates that this percentage
of market share continues through to our
presence in the leading businesses within
each of our key major and sub verticals. This
bodes well for us as the market continues 
to grow and we increase the level of
penetration into our target markets.
Our strategy remains one of delivering
market specific products and services
focused on delivering substantial strategic
and operational benefits. We are confident
that this approach will enable us to maintain
our position as UK market leader in our key
verticals with the ability to take a similar
position in other strategic markets.
Customer Growth and
Development
As a result of the acquisition of Amatics 
in August, we have re-aligned our UK 
based new business sales team such that
they are focused on three key vertical
markets: Service, Transport and Logistics,
Government and Utilities. We have also
replicated this focus within our field-based
and customer-facing back office customer
support team. This allows us to get far closer
to our customers and better understand both
market and customer specific requirement.
We are already seeing substantial benefit
from this approach through successes
achieved by our new business and installed
base sales teams.
In terms of contract extensions, we achieved
unit renewals of approximately 90% which
resulted in the number of customer units
either being renewed or migrated onto the
Fleetstar platform increasing from 2,500 to
6,000 during the period; a significant
20 Cybit Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
www.cybit.co.uk achievement in a period during which two
legacy platforms were retired! Renewal
rates amongst customers remained
relatively static at approximately 80%. It is
pleasing to report that our focus on Return
on Investment and customer service has
helped us to sign significant expansion and
renewal contracts with many of our
customers. Notable amongst these are: SIG
plc, Fowler Welch Coolchain, May Gurney
plc, Colas, Sainsbury’s Online, North
Midland Construction, and Argyle and 
Bute Council.
Cybit has also added a large number of new
customers during the year including Gilbarco
Veeder Root, Milbank Trucks, A1Plus,
Macfarlane Packaging, Cheshire Peak and
Plain Housing and Blaenau Gwent County
Borough Council. At the end of the period,
the net number of assets registered on our
telematics platforms increased from 35,000
to more than 46,000 with the number
registered on Fleetstar-Online alone topping
30,000 at the year end.
Operational Achievements
Our focus on the integration of all UK based
Telematics customer and operational
activities has continued with the integration
of Amatics into the Group within two months
of acquisition. As part of this programme, we
have completed the implementation of our
field-based customer service initiative. This
initiative has moved our customer services
team closer to the customer delivering
improved response times. A direct result of
this initiative has been a significant
acceleration of the order to installation
process with an associated shortening of the
order to cash cycle.
A further project to create a single
procurement team responsible for all Group
purchasing activities is close to conclusion.
This will allow us to reduce the number 
of suppliers to the Group substantially whilst
at the same time improving our overall
buying power.
The continued development of our internal
engineering resource has been a key
achievement during the year. In addition to
delivering greater consistency and quality 
of an ever more complex installation, we 
are currently saving in the region of £50,000
per month against the cost of utilising
external resource.
Continuing our strategy of outsourcing 
non-core activities, we have completed the
transition of all stock-holding, product
configuration and distribution to a partner.
This has allowed us to increase inventory
turn rates whilst reducing the lead time from
order through configuration to end customer
delivery. As a result of this, we have not only
reduced our stock holding and configuration
costs but also achieved an overall reduction
in distribution costs.
As reported last year, the Group has
invested in an integrated Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) system to support
business growth. We have an on-going
project focused on the rationalisation of the
various legacy back-office systems gained
through acquisition. The initial objective was
to consolidate all Group companies onto a
single finance system followed by similar
consolidation of customer operations and
billing systems. This project is expected to
deliver further operational savings over the
second half of the current financial year.
Indirect Channels
Revenues achieved through our indirect
channel increased substantially in the period.
In response to customer and market
demand at the lower end of the SME market
space, Cybit re-structured our reseller
proposition and launched a low end solution
based on the Asset Locator product gained
through the acquisition of Cybit Positioning
Solutions in 2007. This has given our reseller
community a comprehensive suite of cost
effective fleet and asset management
solutions with which to service their
customers. As a result, our channel partners
delivered approximately 180 new customers
to the business during the period.
In addition to our reseller channel, Cybit is
building a network of partners who can help
us to broaden our vertical market
capabilities. We will also be looking to build
upon our recently announced CANbus
capabilities both directly and in conjunction
with specialist partners who can increase our
time to market in certain key areas.
European Subsidiaries and
other International
Opportunities
Revenues from Cybit AB, our Swedish
operation continued to grow over the 
period, primarily as a result of the success 
21 22 Cybit Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
of UK based City Car Club, our major car
share customer.
New business revenues from Fleetstar 
were disappointing although a change in
management focus and launch of the
Truck24 technology during the first quarter 
of the new financial year is delivering
substantial growth.
Similarly in Germany, despite early success,
the performance of Cybit GmbH over the 
full period did not meet management
expectations. With a total vehicle park in
excess of 50 million, we still see this market
as a substantial growth opportunity and
believe that the integration of Cybit GmbH
with our recent Truck24 acquisition will pay
dividends in the coming year.
During the fourth quarter, we appointed a
business manager to lead a new Middle
Eastern business venture based out of
Dubai. We have a number of existing clients
and prospects in this region and recognised
the need to have representation ‘on the
ground’ if we are to be successful in the local
market. We have already identified a number
of significant opportunities for our vehicle
telematics and PMR solutions and believe
this will represent a strong market for Cybit
and our products in the future.
Acquisition of Amatics
On 23rd August 2007, Cybit completed the
acquisition of Amatics Limited, a privately
owned UK based telematics company for 
£4 million. The consideration was satisfied
by a cash payment of £3.5 million, 
£3.25 million of which was payable on
completion and the balance of £250,000
payable over 5 months from October 2007.
The balance of the transaction was satisfied
by the issue of 962,000 new shares at 
52p each. At the time of the acquisition,
Amatics had a cash balance of £3.25 million
therefore, on completion the acquisition was
cash neutral as Cybit effectively paid cash
for Amatics’ existing cash balance. Amatics’
revenue during 2006 was £3.3 million.
In addition to the initial consideration, an
earn-out of up to £2 million is to be paid
against achievement of certain performance
targets during the periods from completion to
31st March 2008 and 1st April 2008 to 31st
March 2009. We believe that the earn-out in
the period to 31st March 2008 will be less
than £100,000.
Amatics is one of the UK’s leading telematics
service providers to the utility services sector
and among local authorities. It currently has
circa 25 long-term customers, who between
them have approximately 4,000 installed
units. Key customers include Scottish Water,
South East Water, Monmouthshire Council,
South Cambridgeshire Council and Argyll
and Bute Council. Many of its customers
integrate telematics data into their internal
infrastructure including customized GIS
applications for applications including gritting
and gully emptying.
Acquisition of Truck24 AG
The acquisition of Truck24 was completed on
the last day of the financial year for a total
consideration of €4 million. The consideration
and debt was satisfied by an initial cash
payment of €700,000 on completion, up to a
further €1.1 million of cash on deferred terms,
the issue of 3,580,000 new shares in Cybit
and the issue of 797,032 Warrants over Cybit
shares at a strike price of 49p. A term loan of 
€1.2 million has been secured from HSBC 
to support the acquisition although the initial
payment of €700,000 was paid out of Group
cash reserves.
Truck24 is based near Munich and is one of
the leading Telematics Service Providers to
the German and German speaking HGV 
and logistics sectors. The Company has
approximately 200 customers representing
3,300 vehicles installed across fleets based in
Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Italy. The
Truck24 solution will strengthen Cybit’s
position in the logistics and distribution
market in that it addresses core tracking,
order management, navigation and
operational performance needs of this sector.
From a product and market perspective,
Truck24 has specific expertise in the logistics
sector which will both add value to the
expanded Group and accelerate Cybit’s
ability to deliver key functionality such as
digital tachograph and CANbus integration.
Although no revenue is included from
Truck24 in the current year, the balance
sheet is consolidated into the overall Group
balance sheet as it was acquired on the last
day of our financial year.
In the period to 31st December 2007,
Truck24 achieved revenues in excess
www.cybit.co.uk 23
of €5 million and is therefore expected to
contribute towards both revenue and profit
growth in the coming year. There are already
plans to launch Truck24 technology in both
Sweden and the UK with other markets
under review.
Product Development
During the period, Cybit delivered a number
of enhancements to products within the
portfolio. One of the most important
enhancements to the Fleetstar application
was the introduction of a new scaled platform
which is capable of supporting growth in
excess of 100,000 units. In addition there
were a number of enhancements to the core
platform including support for CANbus data
and additional functionality around our local
authority winter maintenance module. All of
these developments are paving the way for
further platform consolidation with the
associated benefits in due course.
Our Saffire Maritime solution underwent a
number of customer funded developments.
Included amongst them is the extension of
the product to provide a Race Management
Solution (RMS) to support the Volvo Ocean
Race which sets out from Spain in
September 2008. The team also won a
contract to supply Cyprus with a web based
version of the Sapphire solution which is due
for release during the first quarter of the new
financial year.
There are a number of other hardware
based projects underway including the
development of a new version of our TDMA
based precise positioning hardware, an
updated version of the BlueFinger secure
maritime tracking device and the planned
launch of an updated car share Mobile Data
T erminal (MDT) for our Drive-IT solution.
Our internal development team currently
comprises a core group of approximately 
16 hardware and software engineers. This
team has been supplemented by a core
team of five developers provided by an
Indian outsource partner.
From a planning perspective, Cybit has
recently introduced an agile development
methodology supported by a Development
Management Council (DMC) from across
the Group which meets on a monthly 
basis to review progress and re-assess
development priorities in line with on-going
business and market requirements.
The benefit of this approach is a reduction 
in internal development costs by a net
£200,000 per annum whilst at the same time
giving us greater flexibility to scale our
development capacity either up or down
based on business performance and
customer demand.
Our development group is expecting to
deliver a substantial number of new product
releases together with hardware and
software updates to our existing portfolio. We
are also planning a number of activities
designed to create a common interface layer
within the existing product portfolio and
better integration with our existing back-office
infrastructure. This will help us to leverage
the technology investment we have made
through acquisitions and also deliver further
significant operational savings.
Private Mobile Radio (PMR)
We have been delighted with the
performance of our PMR business over the
past year. Our focus on operational
efficiencies has substantially reduced the
cost base associated with this business and
ensured increased margins across all
products within the portfolio.
The business achieved notable contract wins
with a number of key customers including an
impressive seven year line-fit contract with a
major manufacturer of seismic vehicles. The
current focus on oil and gas exploration has
led to this contract outperforming first year
commitments within the first six months and
the outlook for continued over performance
remains good.
Strong performance from our offshore
exploration partner led to a number of
sizeable orders during the year. This 
product is in a run-out phase but existing
commitments require deliveries for the
majority of the current financial year. We are
hopeful that our PMR business will play a
key part in the delivery of the client’s next
generation solution.
We go into the new financial year with a
strong order book and strong pipeline of
future business opportunities.
Maritime
Although the number of new Fisheries
Vessel Management Solution (VMS) 24 Cybit Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
projects awarded during the year were
relatively low, our maritime team won new
contracts with both new and existing
customers.
On the VMS front, in addition to a number of
smaller contract extensions, we won a large
project to supply the Cyprus Government
with a web-based fisheries management
solution. This solution will also give us 
the ability to provide web-based long 
range tracking services to commercial ship
operators. We are currently exploring the
potential for a commercial launch of this
service in the current financial year.
We were also successful in securing a three
year maintenance contract extension with
DEFRA, the end of which will take our
relationship with this client to over 13 years.
The team was also successful in winning a
development project to provide a Race
Management System (RMS) to support 
the upcoming Volvo Ocean Race. This
development also opens new opportunities
for us in both inshore and offshore racing.
Although business in this sector is fairly
lumpy, we have a relatively strong order
book and a good pipeline of future business
opportunities. We are currently exploring
potential market opportunities that will deliver
a strong base line of predictable revenues
similar to our vehicle telematics business.
Financial Review
This was another year of substantial growth
for Cybit. Revenues were up nearly 50%
from £13.3 million to £19.7 million with pre-
tax profits increasing nearly threefold from
£0.6 million to £1.7 million. This has primarily
been achieved through organic growth
together with a small contribution from 
our Amatics acquisition. Gross margins
remained static at 63% reflecting a continued
focus on managing both fixed and variable
costs across the business.
Despite further significant revenue growth
and acquisition activity, administrative
expenses were tightly controlled, increasing
by only 33%. Against a background of
increasing interest rates, financing costs
increased slightly from £1.19 million to £1.61
million but reduced as a percentage of
overall turnover from 8.3% to 8.9%.
We continue to maintain a focus on
increasing the levels of contracted forward
profit and cash through the development of
our internal leasing book and other recurring
revenues. Continuing that strategy, 23% of
telematics revenues were placed on the
internal lease book during the year. This is
up from 20% in the prior period. Overall the
internal lease book across Group companies
has increased substantially and including
Truck24, the forward value of this asset 
has doubled from £5 million in 2007 to
approximately £10 million, the majority of
which will be recognised over the next 
three years.
The forward order book relating to our
maritime and precise positioning businesses
has also increased substantially, growing
from £2 million in 2007 to nearly £8 million at
the end of the year. The combination of this
forward order book and internal lease book
will not only underpin future growth but will
also serve to insulate the business in the
event that market conditions harden.
Despite the initial payment of €700,000 for
Truck24, cash in hand increased from £2.12
million to £2.85 million. Net cash at the
period end was £1.6 million. The business
remains cash generative at the operating
level with net cash inflow from operating
activities increasing from £1.3 million to £4.1
million in the period. At the end of the year,
the Company had total outstanding loans
and overdrafts of £1.27m. The business also
has an unused overdraft facility of £1 million
and a further euro denominated facility 
of €1.2 million to support the Truck24
acquisition. At the end of the period, none of
these standby facilities were being utilised.
Recurring cash flow has also grown from
£512,000 to £661,000 per month after the
acquisition and integration of Truck24. This
now represents around 74% of Group
monthly cash requirements for the business.
Outlook
The Group has yet again delivered against
the commitments made to shareholders. 
A year of significant growth, together with the
acquisition of Amatics and Truck24, has
given us an exceptional opportunity to build
upon our experiences gained in the UK
market and transfer this success onto the
broader European stage.
Despite current economic conditions, we still
firmly believe that the market for telematics
www.cybit.co.uk 25
will continue to grow as customers from all
sectors are forced to implement strategies to
improve operational efficiencies whilst
ensuring legislative compliance. It is now
widely accepted that our solutions deliver a
high level of return on investment and our
financial strength makes Cybit the low risk
partner to deliver these returns.
Having achieved critical mass in the UK, we
are turning our attention to international
growth. Strong economic growth in Sweden
has led to increased interest in our products
and we plan to launch a localised version 
of Truck24 into the Swedish market. We 
will also be considering how best to 
address the rest of the Scandinavian market
from Sweden.
The acquisition of Truck24 gives us a strong
presence in Germany with additional
customers in Austria, Switzerland and Italy.
We intend to invest further in sales personnel
to exploit this opportunity fully.
Whilst the initial focus will be organic growth
from within the business, we will continue to
consider suitable acquisition opportunities as
resources and market conditions allow.
I would like to thank everyone employed
within the Cybit Group for their hard work
and dedication during what has proved to be
yet another exceptional year and we all look
forward to the future with confidence.
Richard Horsman
Chief Executive
28 July 2008
