 18 Cybit Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
“It has been an exciting year for the Group – building a solid
platform to drive the growth of the business through the
scale achieved through acquisitions.”
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
I am delighted to report another record
breaking set of results. The Group has
benefited from its increased scale achieved
through recent acquisitions and has put in
place a solid platform upon which growth can
be built over the medium term.
We completed and integrated two further
acquisitions during the year. Both came with
substantial contracted revenues which have
contributed towards increased visibility of
future revenue streams. The acquisition of a
leading German telematics service provider
was strategically important as it increased
our coverage in this strategic market and
expanded our customer base in Austria and
German speaking regions of Switzerland
and Italy. Cybit is now recognised as a
successful consolidator at a European level
which will undoubtedly lead to further
opportunities for future growth.
Cybit is also firmly established as one of
Europe’s leading providers of Online Fleet
Management solutions. Our substantial
customer base, forward revenue streams
and strong balance sheet gives us a high
degree of confidence about our future
prospects.
Results
Turnover for the year increased nearly 
50% to £19.7 million with pre-tax profit
increasing 166% from £0.64 million to 
£1.69 million. Despite paying an initial
instalment of £0.5 million for Truck24, 
our gross cash position increased from 
£2.1 million to £2.8 million at 31 March 2008.
Our business remains focused on the
development of long-term recurring revenue
streams and we are pleased that the amount
of telematics business placed on our own
internal leasing book increased from 20% to
23% during the year. The telematics related
forward revenue stream across the business
doubled to £10 million of future profit which
will be recognised over the next three to five
years. The forward order book relating to our
Precise Positioning and Maritime business
increased substantially and now stands at
approximately £8 million. Including Truck24,
free cash flow has increased 29% from
£512,000 to £661,000 per month.
Operations
This was a significant year for our operations
team as we not only completed the
integration of the vehicle telematics
operations of Cybit Positioning Solutions
(formerly Thales T elematics plc) and Amatics
into our core business but also managed the
migration of customers from two legacy
systems retired during the period.Whilst our
vehicle telematics customer base increased
slightly to approximately 1,700 corporate
customers, the number of vehicle based
assets under management increased nearly
30% from 35,000 to more than 46,000.  Our
focus on world class customer service has
resulted in increased levels of contract
renewals across the product portfolio
together with continuing success in winning
new contracts. New products and services
have ensured repeat business from our
customer base remains strong.
Outside of core vehicle telematics business,
our BlueFinger maritime business won a
substantial contract to provide the
Government in Cyprus with a web based
fisheries Vessel Management Solution
(VMS). The team also renewed our contract
www.cybit.co.uk 19
“We remain confident to extend the reach of our technology
and business operations to maximise growth and insulate
against challenges in the global economy.”
with DEFRA for a further three year period.
Cybit Positioning Solutions also achieved
notable success, signing a landmark seven
year line-fit contract for our precise
positioning technology. 
Acquisitions
We successfully completed the acquisition of
another two telematics businesses during
the year. Amatics was bought for £4 million in
August 2007 and Truck24 AG was acquired
on the last day of our financial year for €4
million. Amatics was integrated into our
existing structure within a two month period
and made a contribution to Group profitability
during the second half of the year. The
acquisition of Amatics and subsequent
creation of a focused sales and support team
has significantly strengthened our position in
the local authority and utility sector.
The acquisition of Truck24 has substantially
increased our position within a core strategic
market and will become the focal point for
sales of both Fleetstar and the existing
Truck24 solutions into Germany and
German speaking territories. The integration
process commenced in April and it is
pleasing to report that Truck24 was profitable
within the first two months following
acquisition.
Outlook
Although we are facing a tough economic
climate, the market for our solutions remains
strong. Under challenging market conditions,
well run businesses will look to implement
cost management and business
improvement programmes in order to ride
out a potential downturn.
The Group has a strong balance sheet and
the management team is continually focused
on improving operational efficiencies to drive
bottom line performance.
We will look to take advantage of the current
climate in order to continue building the scale
of the business through further acquisitions.
The telematics market is fragmented with
many small players lacking the financial
resources to ride out an extended economic
downturn.
We remain confident about future prospects
and intend to extend the reach of both our
technology and business operations in order
to maximise growth and insulate against
changes in global economy.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
28 July 2008
