 11 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 10 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
24 hours
Every day we make a difference, serving the
local customer worldwide.
2:00pm Hong Kong
Convenient 24/7 access to
extensive emerging markets
business intelligence is
paramount for this investment
company to ensure a quick
decision – buy or sell.
(Euromoney)
6:00pm Melbourne
Amanda gets to the gym on time,
avoiding the rush hour traffic
congestion through listening to
Nova 100’s regular traffic reports.
(Broadcasting – DMG Radio)
7:30pm London
Alan and Elaine, in the comfort
of their home, explore Teletext’s
holiday pages for their family’s
next summer break – sun, sea
and fun for the kids.
(Broadcasting – DMG Broadcasting)
5:00pm Toronto
Lee gives his home a fresh 
look, inspired by the exhibitions
at North America’s National
Home Show.
(DMG World Media)
7.00am Devon
James has finished milking 
his dairy herd. Over breakfast, 
he reads articles of importance 
to his business in today’s
Western Morning News 
– the market reports, prices 
and weather forecasts.
(Northcliffe Newspapers)
11:00am Bermuda
Philip with his RMS Account
Manager discuss the analysis
of his business’s exposure
to catastrophe risk using 
RMS local catastrophe models
and information.
(DMG Information)
7:30am Brighton
Mr. Baird has his Daily Mail
delivered, ensuring he has
the day’s news as he leaves
for work. Part of the Daily Mail’s
circulation of 2.4 million.
(Associated Newspapers) 13 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
by 14 months to November 2004. From this date the
Daily Mail and Evening Standard will have a maximum
pagination of 128 pages with 64 pages of colour and
the Mail on Sunday 160 pages with 128 pages of colour.
During the year production of Associated’s titles started
in two parts of Southern Spain, Greece and Ireland.
Usage of Associated New Media’s sites grew 36% in
the year and ANM achieved revenue growth of 18%.
This is Travel was launched in January 2002, with the
site differing from others in the market by being editorially
led and focusing on searchable travel classifieds, rather
than on-line bookings. The classified section of the site,
TravelAds was launched in April and has made an
encouraging start. Following a strategic review of ANM’s
activities, UK Plus, the UK search directory, was sold to
BT Looksmart. This is London, the oldest site in ANM’s
portfolio was re-launched in September with a new
enhanced look complemented by several new sections
and a wealth of new functionality and content.
Ireland on Sunday is the latest recruit to the DMGT
national newspapers’ stable. The newspaper was acquired
in September 2001, when its weekly circulation stood
at 46,200. The title was successfully re-launched on the
12th May, 2002. Since then, circulation has averaged
154,000 copies per week, an increase of 233%, which
represents an unprecedented achievement in what is
arguably the most competitive newspaper market in
Europe. Ireland on Sunday is now the third biggest
selling Irish newspaper.
Loot, the free ads paper, was acquired by Associated
Newspapers in October 2001. During the last twelve
months the paper has gone through a major transition
with a new management team installed and a re-launch
incorporating a new design, improved layout, editorial
features and increased colour availability. As a result,
advertising revenues grew by over 10% year-on-year.
Circulation remains a challenge but the increased
investment in marketing is beginning to show tangible
results. The website, Loot.com is starting to make a
significant profit contribution. Overall the business
looks set to deliver good growth in profits.
The new financial year has started encouragingly for
Associated Newspapers with circulation strong and
advertising showing modest growth on the previous year.
Although the advertising market is still volatile, with strong
circulation and readership figures, coupled with stringent
control of expenditure, the outlook for the new financial
year for Associated Newspapers is cautiously optimistic.
12 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Associated Newspapers
The Group’s national newspaper division performed
strongly in a very competitive market.
Associated Newspapers had a good year, despite
unprecedented challenges in the advertising market, which
saw both display and classified revenues down year-on-year.
Given that and the first year investment in Ireland
on Sunday, the division performed extremely well to achieve
a trading profit only 3% down on the previous year. This
was as a result of management actions taken early in the
financial year when it was obvious that there was to be
no recovery on the advertising front. The Daily Mail and
the Mail on Sunday once again recorded circulation growth
despite Saturday and Sunday cover price increases in
an overall declining market and against the background
of a tabloid cover price war from mid-April onwards.
The Daily Mail increased its circulation for the tenth
successive year, despite intense competition and increasing
the cover price of the Saturday product by 10p in October
2001. The average daily sale of 2,437,000 was up 6,000
copies year-on-year and further consolidated the Daily
Mail’s position as the second highest selling national
daily newspaper.
The Mail on Sunday managed to increase its sale by
1,000 copies to 2,360,000, a new record circulation figure.
This was achieved after increasing the cover price by
10p on 30th September, 2001, and in an overall market
showing an annual decline of 1.6%, the Mail on Sunday
increased its market share to 16.5%. During the year, the
newspaper attracted more ABC1 readers than any other
Sunday newspaper and You Magazine achieved the same
status against all other Sunday supplements and reviews.
The Evening Standard average daily sale of 417,000 declined
by 3.2% in the year, although this was to a great extent as
aresult of the decision to move away from price cutting
as a means of stimulating sales growth on a one-day basis.
News continues to be the key sales driver for the Evening
Standard and coverage of the Soccer World Cup and the
funeral of the Queen Mother, were perfect examples
where the timing of events allowed the paper to service
the public’s hunger for news.
Metro had a very successful year, culminating in it 
reporting a profit nationally in the final quarter of the
financial year. The circulation grew by 0.7% in the year,
retaining its position as the sixth largest circulation
national newspaper. More importantly, the ABC1 profile
of the readership increased from 64% last year to 66% 
in the latest available figures.
Total advertising revenues were down 6.2%, with display
down 8.6% and classified up 1.5%. All titles had a very
difficult year with display, and recruitment was down 38%
year-on-year in the Evening Standard. Nevertheless the
Daily Mail and the Mail on Sunday managed to increase
their classified revenue by 5.5% and 12.3% respectively
and Metro increased its display advertising revenue by 3.8%.
Press 80 is back in production and running well at
Harmsworth Quays, providing more flexo printed copies for
the South of England. The Press Enhancement project to
provide increased pagination and colour capacity has been
rescheduled, with the completion date brought forward
Chairman
Lord Rothermere
Managing Director
Murdoch MacLennan
Editor-in-Chief
Paul Dacre
July 2002
Metro moved into profit,
increasing its ABC1 profile
to 66% of the readership.
October 2001
Loot was acquired by Associated
Newspapers. Relaunched with a
new design, advertising revenue
grew by 10% year-on-year.
233%
Acquisition of Ireland on Sunday
In its first full year within
Associated, circulation
has increased from 
46,200 to 154,000.
h
2.4m
The circulation of the Daily Mail
has recorded the highest sales
since records began in 1935.
h 15 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Afurther development is a joint venture with Associated
Newspapers in establishing ‘thisisclassifieds’, to sell
on-line recruitment listings to recruitment consultancies
and specific direct clients.
During the first quarter of the year, Northcliffe’s ‘thisis’
internet sites were re-launched with a new look and feel
resulting in increased usage by their local communities.
The number of unique visits doubled alongside a 50%
increase in page impressions. The sites currently enjoy
400,000 visits per week. Local content on each site enables
the local newspaper to extend its service to readers whilst
enticing non-readers. The websites are complementary
to the newspapers and offer users the facility of sending
letters to the editor, voting on opinion polls and ordering
photographs or subscription copies of the paper on-line.
Traffic is driven through joint campaigns and promotions
with the newspapers. Much has been achieved in 2002
whilst at the same time reducing the cost of running
the internet operation by around 35%.
Contract printing profits fell in 2002 as other large publishers
of regional newspapers withdrew work from some of
Northcliffe’s presses so as to fill their own spare capacity.
This resulted in the decision to rationalise production
capacity by closing the ageing press in Chelmsford in
October 2002 and reducing Lincoln to one shift from
December 2002. All of the work from these presses has been
accommodated at other Northcliffe sites. Closure costs were
provided in the 2002 results. Despite this loss of third party
printing, Northcliffe’s presses continue to be heavily utilised.
Production quality and service remain paramount. IFRA
Colour Club membership, acknowledging exceptional
printing standards, has been awarded to Plymouth and
Exeter, the only regional printers in the country to be
so recognised. Service standards for Northcliffe’s own
publications have improved resulting in newspapers being
delivered consistently on time to readers. This contributes
to the drive to improve circulation.
The project to provide enhanced capacity at Stoke and
Derby for DMGT’s national titles is slightly ahead of
schedule and on budget. These presses will come on line
progressively from January 2003. Readers and advertisers
of the Stoke Sentinel and the Derby Evening Telegraph 
will also benefit from access to more colour. Projects to add
colour capacity, to meet advertising demands in Aberdeen
and Swansea, are also on target for completion by the end
of December 2002.
At the end of July, one of Northcliffe’s titles, the Sentinel,
which serves the community of Stoke on Trent, acquired
the Leek Post and Times for just over £6 million. This
acquisition will be earnings’ enhancing from 2003.
In Hungary, the group’s two regional daily newspapers
and three ‘Loot-type’ classified publications all performed
strongly in 2002. Profits were ahead of the previous year
by over 50%. Northcliffe continues to look for suitable
acquisition opportunities in the area.
The start to the new financial year has so far been
encouraging. Circulation trends continue to improve
despite recent price increases on seven daily titles.
Advertising revenues are up 6% with all categories,
except retail, showing growth. 
14 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Northcliffe Newspapers
The communities which Northcliffe serves continue
to have a healthy demand for the printed word. Each
week, Northcliffe sells around 7 million copies of its
paid-for titles and distributes 2.4 million copies of its
free newspapers. In addition, Northcliffe publishes
highly targeted niche titles covering a variety of
interests and geographically targeted advertising
only products. On average, 650,000 copies of these
are distributed each week.
Despite increasing globalisation, greater social mobility
and ever more exposure to international culture through
travel and television, individuals and their families
continue to anchor themselves firmly in the communities
in which they live. In general, people work, shop and
seek entertainment within just a few miles of their homes.
Against this backdrop, it is no accident that those local
newspapers, which remain in tune with the needs and
aspirations of readers and advertisers, continue to enjoy
high household penetrations and market shares. This is
the context in which all of Northcliffe’s daily, weekly and
niche publications, together with its comprehensive
range of web channels, work.
During 2002, Northcliffe embarked upon a programme of
additional substantial investment in editorial, marketing and
circulation, which will be sustained so as to publish better
and more relevant newspapers and deliver more potential
customers for advertisers. This investment contributed to
an improvement in the sales trend of the daily newspapers
which was down just under 3% in the January to June 2002
ABC period against a decline of 4.7% the previous year.
The sale of weekly titles continues to go from strength to
strength, recording an increase of 1.5%. Northcliffe’s sale
was marginally ahead of the regional press industry in the
January to June 2002 period.
Profits were down 4% in 2002 due to a lower contribution
from contract printing and additional investment in the
newspapers. Advertising revenues were up by 1.3% with
growth from property, motors and other classifieds offset
in part by a decline of 3% in recruitment advertising.
Nationally booked revenues proved to be particularly
resilient with growth of 4%. Only new homes’ advertising
was down year-on-year. Geographically, advertising
revenue growth was robust in the Midlands, the
West country and Humberside. However, the titles
in the south east showed no growth and Bristol,
Bath and Aberdeen recorded year-on-year declines.
Given an ever evolving and demanding media landscape
in the UK, Northcliffe has continued to address how it serves
its advertising customers. During the year, there was further
progress in providing clients with creativity and innovation
through the advertising design studio. This is an electronic
library of finished advertisements, visuals, photographs and
advertisements created throughout the group. It is accessed
by advertising staff through the group’s intranet. This
creativity played a part in Northcliffe winning almost 50%
of the creative awards at this year’s Newspaper Society
Advertising Conference.
Northcliffe also recognises that advertising supplements
and platforms must appeal to readers. During the year,
two new platforms were launched using quality editorial
provided by Associated Newspapers: thisismoney
and thisistravel. They add to readers’ enjoyment of the
newspapers and thus the reaction from advertisers has
been encouraging. During 2003, further investments
will be made in additional editorial for the important
advertising platforms of jobs, motors and property.
Commercially, greater focus was given to building
advertising revenues on the web. For a relatively modest
additional charge, recruitment advertisers can elect to have
their advertisements published on Northcliffe’s network
of ‘thisis’ websites. Customers have responded positively
with over 70% of local advertisers opting for this package.
Chairman
Ian Park
Managing Director
Kevin Beatty
Award-winning publishing 
Northcliffe titles were, again,
successful in winning some of the
industry’s most coveted awards for
editorial, advertising, circulation,
promotions and electronic
publishing.
Northcliffe
Daily
Newspaper
Centres
Regional Coverage
Aberdeen 
Bath 
Bristol 
Cheltenham
Derby 
Exeter 
Gloucester
Grimsby
Hull 
Leicester 
Lincoln 
Nottingham 
Plymouth
Scunthorpe 
Stoke
Swansea 
Torquay
Successful relaunch of ‘thisis’
resulted in the number of visits
per week increasing – it currently
enjoys 400,000 visits per week.
Community Spirit
Local newspapers remain in tune
with the needs and aspirations of
readers and advertisers. 17 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
of £2.7million. ISI achieved its target of moving into profit
by the end of the year, contributing a saving of £3.7 million.
Headcount was reduced from 1,684 at the beginning of the
year to 1,358 at the end of September, giving rise to one-off
costs of nearly £1 million. Most of this 20% reduction in
headcount was completed during the first half. Space
commitments were cut and other costs were reduced
through re-negotiation of rates. 
Euromoney’s operating margin improved from 13.7% to
16.2%. Profits from financial publishing fell from £20.1 million
to £13.8 million due to the fall in financial advertising. But
even in these tough conditions, titles such as Euroweek,
Global Investor and Project Finance managed to grow
their profits. 
Business Publishing, which mainly covers the legal, energy,
pharmaceutical and travel sectors, performed much better.
Profits increased 6% to £6.3 million. Both Legal Publishing
and Engel Publishing, our pharmaceutical marketing
business, increased second half profits after a difficult start
to the year. Gulf Publishing contributed a profit of £200,000
after a first half loss. The Business Traveller group of titles
recovered well after the impact of 11th September and also
increased profits.
Training businesses are very sensitive to delegate numbers.
Travel concerns, budget cuts and headcount reductions
badly affected course numbers at both our financial and
audit and IT security training businesses. As a result,
Training profits fell £2.3 million to £4.4 million. 
Conferences and seminars were the best performing part
of the business. Profits increased £2.4 million to £8.4 million,
most of the improvement coming in the first half when the
group runs four of its five largest events including Vinisud,
the biennial wine exhibition in France. Many of our
conferences follow the sponsorship model rather than
relying on paying delegates. Sponsorship has proved to be
a surprisingly robust revenue stream, reflecting in part the
quality of large annual repeat events such as the Euromoney
Bond Investors Congress, the Euromoney Global Borrowers 
& Investors Forum and the Coaltrans annual coal conference.
During the last couple of years we have invested in two new
event streams, business meetings and awards dinners, and
both these achieved strong revenue growth.
Databases and information services contributed a profit
of £1.8 million after a loss last year of £2.7 million. Most of
the improvement came from ISI, the emerging markets
information provider, which broke into profit at the end of
the year as forecast. ISI suffered during the year from high
cancellations from financial institutions but still managed to
increase its subscription revenues by 8%. The performance
in the second half was much stronger than the first.
Government agencies and corporates have been the main
source of growth and financial customers now only account
for 45% of the total. The cost base of ISI is relatively fixed and
the infrastructure is in place to develop quickly and cheaply
new revenue streams from industry and sector products.
Other database products, particularly the capital market
databases run through the joint venture with Dealogic,
continued to grow. 
16 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Euromoney Institutional Investor
Adjusted operating profits of Euromoney Institutional
Investor, the separately listed international publishing,
conference and training group of which the Group holds 
71%, increased 3.5% to £29.1 million. These results have 
been achieved against a background of some of the worst
trading conditions ever. 
Revenues for the year fell 12% to £180 million driven by
the worldwide downturn in markets and corporate activity;
the huge marketing spend and headcount reductions
implemented by the global investment banks; the loss of
investor confidence following the high profile accounting
scandals in the US; and continued fears since
11th September of terrorist activity and possible war
which have badly affected air travel.
Euromoney derives approximately two thirds of its revenues
from the financial sector. As a result the financial publishing
and training businesses were hit hardest by the downturn.
Advertising revenues fell 11% to £66 million and advertising
into the group’s financial titles fell 20%. Institutional
Investor, with its heavy dependence on Wall Street, suffered
a 30% fall in advertising. Euromoney magazine, which is
more dependent on emerging markets, fell 22%. Training
revenues were down 20% to £22 million. In sharp contrast,
advertising into business titles increased by 2% to
£27 million, helped by the full year inclusion of Gulf
Publishing acquired in August 2001. The group’s continued
focus on subscription products, such as ISI’s emerging
markets information service, is highlighted by the fact
that subscription revenues (excluding titles closed at the
beginning of the year) fell by just 1%. Event sponsorship was
the strongest revenue stream, increasing 5% to £13 million.
The increase in profits was achieved largely as a result
of strategic initiatives taken by management at the end
of 2001 and continued with a rigorous cost reduction
programme implemented during the first half. The closure
of certain loss-making businesses at the end of last year,
the restructuring of under-performing businesses and
the elimination of loss-making and low margin products,
particularly anything internet related, contributed savings
Chairman
Padraic Fallon
Managing Director
Richard Ensor
Profits Up
Euroweek, Global Investor and
Project Finance grew profits in
tough conditions.
£27m
The full year inclusion of Gulf
Publishing, acquired in August
2001, supported the increase of
advertising revenues into
business titles.
£13m
Event sponsorship was the
strongest revenue stream
increasing 5% to £13 million.
Leading the way in 
annual branded events
Annual repeat events such as
the Euromoney Bond Investors
Congress, the Euromoney Global
Borrowers & Investors Forum 
and the Coaltrans conference 
have proved to be robust
revenue streams. 
hh
h
100+
72
