 I am pleased to report an increase in the
Group’s adjusted profit before tax from
£182.5 million to £185.5 million in the year
to September 2003. This is a good result
given the tough trading conditions that
many of our businesses faced, as well
as the effects of the Iraq war and SARS.
Particularly pleasing were the steady rise
in the profits of Northcliffe, our regional
newspaper division, and the higher
contributions from some of our newer
businesses. Newspapers remain at the heart
of DMGT and our first priority is always to
grow Associated and Northcliffe. We know
that we have to invest in order to increase our
revenues and have continued to put money
into our products and titles, both new and
long-established. Nowhere is this more true
than in our flagship UK national titles, the
Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday. Both have
again increased their circulations in a generally
falling market and our regional titles have
won a stream of awards for their excellence. 
However, our strategy of investing also
in non-newspaper media businesses has
provided diversity and some stability during the
last three years of harsh advertising markets.
The Group’s star performer last year was Risk
Management Solutions, ably led by Hemant
Shah. Its growth has been exceptional, as its
insurance company clients seek to improve
their portfolio risk analysis. We look forward
to revenues continuing to grow rapidly. We
should also congratulate DMG Information’s
property information businesses, EDR in
the United States and Landmark in the UK,
on a strong performance. 
DMG Radio has achieved outstanding
operational success in Australia. An
excellent team, headed by Paul Thompson,
has taken our Sydney station, Nova 969,
to the number one FM rating less than three
years after launch. We paid a high price
for our metropolitan licences, but now we
have the base to generate a good return
on our investment. 
I turn now to the changing regulatory picture
in the UK. The Broadcasting Act is about to
come into force and Ofcom will shortly take
over much of the regulation of the UK media
industry. In the past year we have seen the
two main ITV companies allowed to merge,
yet the Competition Commission has turned
down a number of small deals in the radio
and regional newspaper sectors on local
competition grounds. We now hope for
increased consistency from the various
regulatory bodies to allow UK media
companies to plan with more certainty.
The forthcoming AGM will see two directors
retire from the Board. Niilo Hakkarainen
joined the Board in 1990 after standing
down as Chief Executive of United Paper
Mills in Finland. He is a wonderful character
and has been an exemplary independent
member of the Board. His enthusiasm and
his perception will be missed.
Earlier this year, we celebrated the 50th
anniversary of Sir Patrick Sergeant joining
our Group. He was the revered City Editor of
the Daily Mail from 1960 to 1984 and created
Money Mail. In 1969, he founded Euromoney
and has been instrumental in growing it into
the international publishing business it is today.
He has been a non-executive director of
DMGT since 1983 and has been a constant
source of wisdom and experience throughout
that time. Patrick was a great friend and
adviser to my grandfather and father and
has been a marvellous support to me since
I became Chairman in 1998. I shall miss
immensely his wit and continuing wisdom
at our Board meetings, but am delighted
that he will remain as a director and president
of Euromoney Institutional Investor.
In their place the Board has recommended
two individuals as directors from the end of
the AGM. Tom Gillespie is a senior Canadian
lawyer who has worked with the Group over
a long period. David Verey is a merchant
banker by trade, formerly with Lazards and
then Cazenove. I believe their different skills
will prove to be of great value to the Board.
Finally I should like to mention Roger Gilbert,
who retires in April 2004. Roger has been
with the Group for 32 years, starting as Group
Accountant, and then responsible for running
and ultimately selling our non-media division.
Latterly he has been responsible for growing
some of our newer businesses as chairman
of our Teletext, radio and exhibitions divisions
which in the last year delivered 14% of our
operating profits. His has been a most valuable
contribution to the Group’s development
and I wish him a long and happy retirement. 
The last three years have been a difficult
period for many of our businesses and
for our employees. We have continued to
build up our businesses and, almost without
exception, they have stronger market
positions now than three years ago. This is
substantially due to the skills and dedication
of our employees who have once more shown
themselves to be the Group’s greatest asset.
I thank them all on behalf of shareholders
for their efforts and commitment but most
of all for their results. Now that we are at last
seeing some encouraging signs of renewed
growth in some parts of the Group, I hope
they all enjoy an easier year ahead.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
02
Chairman’s
Statement This has been a successful year given
the tough trading conditions that many
of our businesses faced.
Our strategy of investing
also in non-newspaper media
businesses has provided
some stability over the
last three years of harsh
advertising markets.
The Viscount Rothermere
Chairman
Newspapers remain at
the heart of DMGT and the
successes of Associated
and Northcliffe are
particularly pleasing.
