 01 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
19m
Over 19 million people 
use Teletext services 
every week.
➜ DMG Broadcasting: Television
During the year Teletext has made substantial
investment in its platforms, putting the company 
in a strong position to continue to grow audiences
and revenues via the web and digital TV. 02 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
No.1
Nova stations are 
the No.1 choice for all 
people under 40.
➜ DMG Broadcasting: Radio
In the most recently released independent listener
surveys, Nova is the No.1 station for the under 40s in
every market in which it was surveyed. Nova is also
the No.1 commercial FM station in Australia’s two
largest markets of Sydney and Melbourne. 03 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
+20%
Environmental report 
sales in the UK grew 
by over 20%.
➜DMGInformation
Landmark Information Group enjoyed a successful
year . The need to consider environmental factors
when buying property was increasingly recognised
by the market and Landmark’s mapping and GIS
services also experienced healthy levels of growth. 04 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
+1 0%
Euromoney Institutional 
Investor increased its 
revenues by 10%.
➜ Euromoney Institutional Investor
Euromoney had its best September issue for 
five years and Institutional Investor increased its
advertising revenues in 2004. 05 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
16.7%
The Mail on Sunday 
achieved its highest ever 
market share of 16.7%.
➜ Associated Newspapers
Associated Newspapers achieved record profits, with
the Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday once again
outperforming markets in overall decline. The Daily
Mail achieved market share growth of 0.42% – the
highest of any national newspaper . 06 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
* Source: TNS Media 2000-2003
Base: All Adults in 10%+ circulation areas.
+5%
Northcliffe Newspapers’ 
evening newspaper 
readership is up by 5%* .
➜ Northcliffe Newspapers
Northcliffe's paid-for evening titles have increased
their unduplicated weekly readership by 5% over 
the last three years, bucking the industry trend.
Northcliffe’s evening titles now reach 7 in 10 adults
at least once a week* . 300+
dmg world media and its
partners organise more than 
300 exhibitions worldwide.
➜ dmg world media
We create vibrant marketplaces that bring people
together to do business. We also produce more 
than 65 related magazines, newspapers, directories,
market reports and industry databases to support
our customers around the world.
07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
