 10 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINED INVESTMENT IN SOUND BUSINESSES 
THROUGHOUT THE ECONOMIC CYCLE NOW PUTS US IN 
A STRONG COMMERCIAL POSITION.
Q: Your results this year are good. Is this because your
businesses have been operating in booming sectors?
A: It’s down to a combination of factors. Certainly some of our
business sectors have been showing strong growth – UK
regional newspaper and Australian radio advertising would be
two examples. But in addition most of our businesses have been
growing their market share and operating more efficiently, and
we’ve made some helpful acquisitions.
Q: How did the Board set the dividend in such a good year?
A: DMGT has a policy of seeking to increase the dividend in 
real terms every year, regardless of the results within reason, 
as long as we continue to have confidence in the strength of our
businesses. This year, the Board decided to go to the top of the
range that they hope to maintain. It means that the compound
dividend growth over the last ten years is 10%. 
Q: Can you outline the reasons behind the largest acquisitions
and disposals DMGT has made this year?
A: The biggest moves this year have been in Australian radio. We
bid successfully for licences in Adelaide and Brisbane, which will
enable us to complete our national Nova network of stations, and
in Sydney and Melbourne, where we will be able to run a second
station alongside Nova. Finally we sold our regional stations
because someone offered us a very good price and we wished 
to focus on metropolitan markets. Elsewhere, Euromoney added
to its thriving conference business with the purchase of IMN, and
DMG Information bought Trepp and, since the year end, Lewtan,
to add to its fast-growing business to business information
division. Generally we look for acquisitions that will expand or
extend existing successful operations in the Group. Of course,
the biggest deal would have been the one we did not do, namely
the Telegraph Group. Lord Rothermere has referred to that 
in his statement.
Q: What do you see as the greatest risks facing DMGT?
A: This is a question that occupies a lot of our time, and rightly
so. Inevitably we face economic risks in terms of the health of
the economies and the markets in which we operate. There 
is little that we can do about these in the short term, but for
some time we have pursued a policy of investing as willingly 
in selected overseas markets as in the UK, and we watch the
long term health of the markets we serve. We consider that 
our businesses have two essential assets, our brands and our
people. The key risks over which we can have some control 
are reputation, our capacity to compete and retention of staff. 
On each of these we have a good record, but we are never
complacent. They are all a regular focus of the Group Risk
Committee, which I chair and about which you can read on 
page 31. But we never forget that we are paid to take risks, 
but manage them.
Q: On the issue of staff retention, DMGT is very unusual in
continuing to keep open final salary pension schemes, almost
unique in the media sector . Why is this and how are they doing?
A: We believe in trying to provide the appropriate form of pension
provision to all our employees. Thus we have retained final salary
pension schemes for our UK newspaper divisions where people
tend to stay with us for a long time and where we have a lot of
employees over 35. In the other divisions, where many of the
employees are younger, and which are more international, we
believe defined contribution schemes are more appropriate.
For the final salary schemes, it’s been another interesting year,
with pensions regularly creating newspaper headlines, ever
more schemes being closed and ever more legislation. During
the year, we have been undertaking the triennial actuarial review
➜ Compound dividend growth over the
last ten years is 10%
Charles Sinclair
Chief Executive of our schemes. They remain in better shape than many, at
worst only marginally in deficit, and, importantly, continue to
have an excess of cash inflows over cash outflows to finance
benefit commitments. But the cost of providing the benefits 
they promise continues to grow, mainly because people are 
living longer .
We have decided once more to keep our schemes open, because
we believe they are appropriate. However, in view of the cost
pressures, we are informing members of changes we will be
making next year . Any employee who wants to continue earning
pension benefits at the same rate as now will be asked to
increase their contributions; if they pay the same as now, they
will in future earn benefits at a lower rate, as will new employees,
at least for their first five years with us. The Group will also be
increasing again its contributions into the schemes, but we have
been able to hold the cost to an acceptable level, while also
being able to focus the investment on our long term employees.
Q: Your share price has performed well in the last twelve
months, up 17% in the year to November 2004. Is this in your
view a sensible reflection of the Company’s performance?
A: This short term increase does mirror the improvement in 
our trading results over the same period and represents 13%
outperformance of the media sector . However, we believe 
it is more appropriate to look at the long term share price
performance against the market and our peers. As you can 
see in the graphs opposite and on page 39, we have done well
over five years and even better over longer periods.
Q: In which direction do you see DMGT going over the 
next few years?
A: More of the same. I am sure that newspapers will continue 
to be a vibrant media form for many years and will remain at 
the heart of DMGT. At the same time we hope to continue to
grow our non-newspaper divisions and we may well find more
acquisitions in these areas than in newspapers.
11 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Valuing our people
We believe in trying to provide 
the appropriate form of pension
provision to all our employees.
Share price rises
The share price has performed well
in the last twelve months, up 17% 
in the year to November 2004.
+17%
Acquisition of Trepp
DMG Information has added to its 
fast growing business to business
information division with the
purchase of Trepp, the market
leading provider of commercial
property data and analytics.
➜ We have outperformed the media
sector by 13%
0
6
12
4
10
2
8
14
Sept 88
Sept 89
Sept 90
Sept 91
Sept 92
Sept 93
Sept 94
Sept 95
Sept 96
Sept 97
Sept 98
Sept 99
Sept 00
Sept 01
Sept 02
Sept 03
Sept 04
Performance of DMGT ‘A’ and FT All-Share Index relative 
to values at 30 September 1988
DMGT ‘A’ (monthly closing price)
FT All-Share Index
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
DMGT dividend history for the period 1988-2004
(pence)
