 08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OUR STRATEGY OF CONTINUING TO INVEST IN MARKET-LEADING
BUSINESSES THROUGH TOUGH TRADING CONDITIONS HAS
CONTRIBUTED TO A STRONG UPTURN IN OUR PERFORMANCE.
I am pleased to report good results. The Group’s adjusted profit*
before tax rose 27% from £185 million to £234 million in the year
to 3 October 2004. Net debt fell by £93 million to £780 million,
despite spending £214 million on acquisitions to nurture 
our businesses. 
The year saw some important developments. 
We spent much time and money considering an acquisition 
of the Telegraph Group. At the right price, this would have been 
a good deal for DMGT but the price went beyond what we thought
was right. A consequence of the sale of the Telegraph was 
the departure of Murdoch MacLennan, Managing Director of
Associated Newspapers for the last 10 years. I thank Murdoch
for his achievements and wish him well in his new role. I am
pleased that we have such able replacements in Kevin Beatty,
who has moved across from Northcliffe Newspapers to
Associated, and Michael Pelosi, who takes over as MD of
Northcliffe. I am confident that they will lead their divisions 
to new heights.
The year also saw two broadsheet titles become tabloids
creating new challenges for our newspapers. To their credit, the
Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday maintained their circulations,
thereby again increasing their market shares. 
We are just completing a £90 million programme of investment
in our press facilities in London, Stoke, Derby and Bristol. So far,
everything has been finished ahead of time, under budget and 
is working well. John Bird, and his team at Harmsworth Quays,
and Mark Ellington, and his team at Northcliffe, deserve much 
of the credit. As a result we look forward to better papers and
higher advertising revenues. 
Our broadcasting division faced major decisions. Even though
our shareholding will be diluted from 29.9% to 14.3%, we
decided to support the proposed merger between GWR and
Capital Radio, because it seemed the best way of increasing the
value of our investment. The OFT is considering whether to refer
the merger to the Competition Commission but we hope it will
be cleared without too many conditions. If it is not, the good
intentions of the 2003 Broadcasting Act will be further diluted.
The Viscount Rothermere
Chairman
Key points
➜ Newspapers remain at the 
heart of DMGT. 
➜ Continued growth by our newer
businesses means that 40% of 
this year’s adjusted operating profit 
has been generated by our non-
newspaper divisions. 
* Adjusted profit (before exceptional items and amortisation and
impairment of intangible assets) 09 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
In Australia, DMG Radio was successful in bidding for further
licences in Adelaide, Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. These
acquisitions were neatly balanced by the sale of our chain of
regional radio stations for an excellent price. We now have the
number one FM station in both Sydney and Melbourne and 
will complete our Nova network during 2005.
Among our other divisions, dmg world media had a strong
trading year and continued to make small fill in acquisitions
which generate high marginal returns. DMG Information was 
still the fastest growing division with a further 50% increase 
in operating profit. Risk Management Solutions was again the
largest contributor to this growth.
Convinced that the internet will become more and more
important in our lives, I am encouraging our consumer publishing
enterprises to increase their investments in it with the aim of
building a leading presence in key channels.
Klaus Schwab has this month retired from the Board after 
six years’ service. He has a busy schedule as President of the 
World Economic Forum and I am grateful for his advice and
guidance during his time as a Director . 
After five years marking time in difficult markets, it is good to
see a big growth in profits properly reflecting the strength of the
Group. These results are largely due to the skill and dedication 
of our excellent employees. I thank them and hope to report
good figures again next year . 
The Viscount Rothermere
Chairman
£90 million investment
We have completed a £90 million
programme of investment in our
press facilities in London, Stoke,
Derby and Bristol. This was finished
ahead of time and under budget.
Number one FM stations
We now have the number one 
FM station in both Sydney and
Melbourne and will complete our
Nova network during 2005.
DMG Information: the fastest 
growing division
DMG Information was again the 
fastest growing division with a further
50% increase in operating profit. Risk
Management Solutions was again 
the largest contributor to this growth.
+50%
