 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 3
Dairy Crest has delivered a solid
performance in the year ended March
2005 despite the competitive retail
environment with reported adjusted profit
before taxation of £84.2 million on
turnover of £1.35 billion and adjusted
earnings per share of 49.3 pence. 
The Group’s strategy continues to be
to focus on the development of profitable
branded and added value dairy products
and to invest in low cost operations to
maintain competitive advantage. Our
Foods business has made good
progress benefiting from an encouraging
performance across our portfolio of
brands. The year has seen
unprecedented changes to the supply 
of fresh milk to the major UK food
retailers resulting in a significant impact
on the future profitability of our Dairies
business. We have taken actions to
strengthen the strategic position of our
Dairies business which leave us well
placed to improve its future performance
albeit from a lower base.
The UK dairy industry must continue
to take account of the potential impact of
the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)
reforms that are currently being
implemented. We are active through
Dairy UK and other industry bodies in
promoting the long-term future of the UK
dairy industry. We have also
strengthened our working relationship
with Dairy Crest Direct, our direct milk
supply association, which supplies over
two thirds of our milk volumes, as we
believe that this is beneficial both to the
Group and our milk producers in
planning for the future. 
The Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend of 7% to
14.3 pence per share. This together with
the interim dividend of 5.9 pence makes
a total dividend for the year of 
20.2 pence per share, an increase of
7%. The Board remains committed to a
progressive dividend policy. 
Board changes
As already announced, Paul Lewis will
retire as a non-executive director at the
Annual General Meeting in July after
almost 9 years service, having previously
served for 3 years as a non-executive
director of Dairy Crest Limited. I should
like to thank Paul for his valuable counsel
during his years on the Board,
particularly since the Group’s flotation in
1996. I am pleased to welcome David
Richardson, previously Finance Director
of Whitbread PLC, who joined the Dairy
Crest Board as a non-executive director
in December 2004. I am sure that the
Board will benefit from his extensive
experience in finance and in consumer
facing industries. 
Simon Oliver, Chairman
24 May 2005
Chairman’s statement
Simon Oliver
Chairman
“Dairy Crest has delivered a solid
performance in the year ended
March 2005 despite the competitive
retail environment”
4561_DC_pp ifc-7_lores  13/6/05  10:18 AM  Page 3
