 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005
Overview
Dairy Crest has traded well in the year
and continues to be strongly cash
generative. We have increased
investment in our branded and added
value businesses, which have again
made encouraging progress. It has been
a particularly challenging year in fresh
milk with unprecedented changes in
supply arrangements by major food
retailers. Whilst these changes will
adversely impact the Group in 2005/06
we have taken actions to strengthen the
Dairies business for the future. 
Financial results
Group turnover (including our share of
joint ventures’ turnover) was £1.35 billion
(2004 – £1.36 billion). Group operating
profit, before operating exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation, decreased to
£100.6 million (2004 – £104.8 million)
after absorbing increased pension costs
of approximately £4.3 million. Adjusted
profit before tax was down slightly at
£84.2 million (2004 – £85.1 million). After
taking account of £13.1 million of goodwill
amortisation and £4.4 million (2004 –
£27.3 million) of net exceptional charges,
profit before tax was up 46% at £66.7
million (2004 – £45.6 million). Adjusted
earnings per share decreased to 49.3
pence per share (2004 – 50.0 pence).
Group net debt as at 31 March 
2005 was £52.2 million lower at 
£227.5 million (2004 – £279.7 million)
reflecting the Group’s strong operational
cash generation.
Investing in brand development
We continue to focus on innovation with
a number of new product development
initiatives being launched. The key area
of recent activity has been our entry into
the growing market for ‘functional’
products within the dairy category. We
have just launched ‘St. Ivel advance’, a
branded fresh milk enriched with
Omega-3. A number of studies have
shown that Omega-3 may have learning
and concentration benefits for some
children as well as being good for the
heart. This functional product gives us a
position in the growing branded fresh
milk market and is expected to appeal,
in particular, to parents with young
children. Elsewhere we have continued
to extend the range of Cathedral City
with new formats focused on
convenience such as Cathedral City
Grated. We have also extended our
‘Health’ offering in spreads with the
launch of Gold Lowest, the lowest fat
branded spread in the UK market.
Yoplait Dairy Crest has also launched  a
yogurt under the Petits Filous brand
aimed at extending the brand’s usage by
older children. 
The Group puts strong emphasis on
a continuous programme of cost
reduction which not only ensures that we
remain competitive in the market place,
but also supports increasing levels of
marketing spend. Over the last three
years this marketing investment has
strengthened the position of our key
brands. Increasingly, marketing spend
Chief Executive’s review
Drummond Hall
Chief Executive
“We have increased investment 
in our branded and added value
businesses, which have again 
made encouraging progress”
4561_DC_pp ifc-7_lores  13/6/05  10:26 AM  Page 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 5
“Our results have been achieved
through the skills and efforts 
of all our people, in whom we 
will continue to invest”
has moved from promotional activity to
media investment with our brands
Clover, Utterly Butterly, St Ivel Gold and
Cathedral City as well as the Yoplait
brands all being advertised on television
during the year. Cathedral City, our
market leading branded cheddar, has
had a particularly strong year with value
growth well over 20%. The brand is now
worth approximately £90 million at retail
value. The acquisition of 100%
ownership of the Country Life brand
during the year represents a significant
opportunity for us to accelerate the
development of this brand, particularly in
the fast growing spreadable butter
category. We will be supporting Country
Life with a significant television
advertising campaign in late summer. 
Retail milk strategic developments
In a challenging market we have taken
action to strengthen the Dairies
business. In May 2005 we announced
the acquisitions of both Midlands Co-op
Dairies and Starcross Foods Limited.
Midlands Co-op Dairies is the largest
regional dairy operator in the UK. It
processes approximately 200 million
litres of milk per annum at its dairy in
Birmingham and distributes milk, via 16
distribution centres to a range of retail,
wholesale and doorstep customers
across the Midlands. Starcross is a
modern dairy in Foston, Derbyshire,
opened in May 2002 with current
capacity to process up to 100 million
litres of milk per annum. Starcross will
significantly extend our existing
geographical footprint across England
and Wales to cover most of the major
northern conurbations. These two
acquisitions will strengthen our
competitive position, improve the
profitability of the Dairies business and
better align our operations to our major
customers’ requirements.
The last 12 months have seen an
unprecedented period of change in fresh
milk supply arrangements by major food
retailers. By October 2005 Dairy Crest will
be supplying approximately 50% of fresh
milk volumes to both Sainsbury’s and
Morrisons. In addition, we have retained
our sole supply positions with Waitrose
and Marks & Spencer. However, as
previously announced, we have lost our
fresh milk supply positions to both Tesco
and ASDA. Overall, taking into account
these changes and the volume gained
through the Midlands Co-op Dairies
acquisition, we expect to increase fresh
milk volumes in our Dairies business.
New organisational structure
A new organisational structure was put
in place from 1 November 2004. The
previous five business units were
consolidated into two operating
divisions: Foods, comprising spreads
and cheese, headed by Peter Thornton,
who also retains responsibility for Yoplait
Dairy Crest, and Dairies, comprising
liquid products, household and
ingredients and headed by Mark Allen.
The restructuring streamlined the roles
and responsibilities of the senior
management team, reduced duplication
between the business units and our
overhead costs. This cost saving has
helped to offset the higher energy and
packaging costs that have been
experienced across the industry. 
People
Our people have responded particularly
well to the challenges of the last 12
months. Our results have been achieved
through the skills and efforts of all our
people, in whom we continue to invest.
During the year we have significantly
increased our investment in sales and
marketing training in particular. We
continue to make progress in improving
our communication and engagement
with our workforce. 
Outlook
We have continued to invest in the 
long-term development of our brands
and we have made sound strategic
moves to strengthen our Dairies
business for the future. Trading at the
start of the new financial year is in line
with our expectations.
Drummond Hall, Chief Executive
24 May 2005
4561_DC_pp ifc-7  31/5/05  7:32 AM  Page 5
