 and the desire to plan together for the
mutual benefit of both milk suppliers and
the Group. This partnership approach will
enable us and our milk suppliers to deal
more effectively with the dairy reforms of
the Common Agricultural Policy (‘CAP’)
currently being implemented.
In August 2006, the Group will reach
its tenth anniversary as a quoted company
on the London Stock Exchange. The
Group has grown significantly since 1996
and delivered good long-term returns to
shareholders, significantly ahead of the
FTSE250 Index, both through share price
appreciation and dividend growth. This
successful performance reflects both the
robustness of our long-term strategy to
develop the branded and added value
side of the business and the dedication
and hard work of our employees.
Simon Oliver, Chairman
23 May 2006
Dairy Crest has performed well in the
second half of the year ended March
2006, despite the difficult overall trading
environment, and reported full year
adjusted profit before taxation of £67.7
million, in line with expectations, on
revenue of £1,424.2 million (including
share of joint ventures) and adjusted
earnings per share of 40.3 pence.
Reported profit before taxation was
£41.3 million.
The Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend of 6.3% to
15.2 pence per share. This, together with
the interim dividend of 6.3 pence, makes
a total dividend for the year of 21.5
pence per share, an increase of 6.4%.
The Board remains committed to a
progressive dividend policy.
The focus of the Group’s strategy
continues to be on growing the added
value and branded side of the business,
which we have supported by increased
levels of marketing expenditure and new
product launches. The success of this
strategy has been evident in our Foods
division, which has had another good
year with a strong performance from a
number of the key brands including
Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life and
the Yoplait brands. In the Dairies division
the performance reflects the adverse
impact on the retail milk business from
last year’s supply changes in the fresh
milk sector. The household side of the
Dairies division has continued to perform
well, generating good profits and cash for
the Group. Our Dairies division has been
strengthened by strategic acquisitions
and volume realignment across our
operations. We are also investing to
develop a branded position with the
launch of St. Ivel advance. Taken as a
whole, these management actions and a
better balance of industry supply and
demand should lead to an improved
performance by the Dairies division in
2006/07.
We continue to value the strong
relationship that we have built up with our
milk suppliers and in particular, Dairy
Crest Direct, our direct milk supply
association. During the year, the number
of direct suppliers has risen to over
1,600 representing over 70% of our
milk requirements. Our close working
relationship is built on trust, transparency,
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 3
Chairman’s statement
“The group has grown
significantly since 1996 and
delivered good long-term
returns to shareholders”
Simon Oliver
Chairman
4609_DC_p2-5_AW.qxd  7/6/06  11:37 am  Page 3
