 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006
Overview
The Group has delivered results in line
with expectations despite the challenging
trading environment and high oil-related
costs. In particular, after a difficult first
half, we performed well in the second
half of the year with profits up on the
second half of last year as well as
significantly up on the first half of this
year. The focus of the Group’s strategy
continues to be on growing the added
value and branded side of the business,
which we have supported with increased
levels of marketing expenditure partly
funded through increases in operational
efficiencies. We have also been active in
new product development, with an
emphasis on the functional food area
including the launch of St. Ivel advance
and St. Ivel Gold with Omega 3.
Financial results
Group revenue (including our share of
joint ventures’ revenue) was £1,424.2
million (2005: £1,348.8 million). Adjusted
profit before tax (including share of joint
ventures and before exceptional items
and amortisation of acquired intangibles)
was £67.7 million (2005: £75.7 million),
mainly reflecting reduced profits in our
Dairies division. After deducting £22.4
million of exceptional items, £1.0 million of
acquired intangible amortisation and £3.0
million of tax on joint ventures, profit
before tax was down 41% at £41.3
million (2005: £70.2 million). Exceptional
items include a £9.3 million non-cash
impairment charge on the assets and
goodwill of our Stilton and speciality
cheese business. Adjusted earnings per
share decreased to 40.3 pence per share
(2005: 43.9 pence). 
Group net debt as at 31 March 2006
was £52.7 million higher at £280.2 million
(2005: £227.5 million) reflecting, in
particular, the acquisitions in the Dairies
division during the year.
Continued development of brands
Over the last few years the Group has
significantly increased the level of
marketing support for its portfolio of
brands and is now one of the leading
advertisers in the UK food sector. Future
marketing investment is expected to
grow at a reduced rate with additional
investment primarily being targeted at
supporting our active programme of new
product development. During the year,
we invested in new television advertising 
for Cathedral City, Country Life, St. Ivel
advance and St. Ivel Gold. Both
Cathedral City and Country Life have
performed particularly strongly, benefiting
from this support, and both continue to
provide good growth opportunities for
the Group within their respective
markets. Cathedral City is now worth
£106 million at retail value, strengthening
its position as the UK’s biggest cheddar
brand. This strong brand presence in
cheese will help to offset any downward
pressure on market pricing in 2006/07
that may arise from higher industry
cheese stocks. 
During the year, there has been
continued focus on our new product
development activity. Much of this effort
has been on moving into the high-value
functional foods area within the dairy
category, with particular emphasis on
Omega 3. In May 2005 we launched St.
Ivel advance, a branded fresh milk
enriched with Omega 3. While it is still at
an early stage of development, volumes
and sales are encouraging and the brand
has now achieved high levels of trade
distribution in the major retailers. In
January 2006, we launched St. Ivel Gold
spread with Omega 3 together with new
packaging and new television advertising.
Chief Executive’s review
Drummond Hall
Chief Executive
“We expect our brand
portfolio, supported
by marketing
investment and
further new product
development, to
continue to make
good progress”
4609_DC_p2-5_AW.qxd  7/6/06  11:37 am  Page 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 5
St. Ivel Gold, despite having a more
difficult year, will continue to be our
platform for further new product
development in the Health sector of the
Butter and Spreads market. 
Other products launched during the
year included Country Life Lightly Salted
and ‘Over the Moon’, a speciality
blended cheese brand. More recently, in
May 2006, we have launched Cathedral
City Mild to capitalise further on the
exceptional performance from the
Cathedral City brand and help grow this
brand across the wider cheddar
category. Yoplait Dairy Crest has again
launched new products within its brand
portfolio including Petits Filous Plus, a
probiotic drinking yogurt for children. 
Since the Group floated ten years
ago, we have consistently focused on a
strategy of building profitable brands
both organically and through acquisition.
As a result, our brands now represent a
significant proportion of Group
profitability. In 2005/06 the percentage of
Group contribution (profit on operations
before indirect overhead allocation)
derived from brands (including joint
ventures) was 56%.
Dairies position strengthened
This year’s performance of the Dairies
division reflects the impact of industry
supply changes in 2004 and 2005. In
particular, the major retail fresh milk
business was impacted by the loss of
the Tesco fresh milk supply position from
April 2005. During the year, the Group
has been focusing on improving
profitability and developing a robust and
sustainable future for this division.
Notably, we were pleased to win
additional fresh milk volumes for
Morrisons, which we began to supply at
the end of October 2005. In May 2005
the Group made the strategic
acquisitions of Midlands Co-op Dairies
and the Foston dairy (Starcross Foods)
to strengthen the Dairies business and
extend its distribution capabilities
northwards. These acquisitions have
now been fully integrated into our
business on time and to plan. The
Midlands Co-op Birmingham dairy was
closed at the end of February 2006 with
volume transferred to Foston as well as
other Dairy Crest sites. All our dairies are
now operating at good levels of capacity
utilisation.
The Dairies division has again
benefited from the strong performance
of the household business, which
continues to be profitable and cash
generative. The acquisitions of both
Midlands Co-op Dairies and Arla’s
London Foodservice business have
strengthened the business in both the
doorstep operations and in the middle
ground. There are still good opportunities
for rationalisation within the household
sector and we are expecting another
good performance in 2006/07 following
last year’s acquisitions.
There is now a better balance of
supply and demand in retail fresh milk
after several site closures across the
industry, although some uncertainty
has been created by the reduction
in supermarket retail milk prices in
March 2006.
Whilst margins in our liquid products
business have been unsatisfactory, they
are starting to improve. In January 2006
the Group achieved price increases on
fresh milk with the major retailers to
offset higher oil-related input costs. More
recently, we have reduced the raw milk
price going into our liquid dairies to reflect
lower commodity cream prices. At the
same time, the Group has been pursuing
a continuous programme of cost
reduction with particular projects focused
on distribution and energy saving.
People
We continue to be supported by a
talented, dedicated and loyal workforce
whose skills and efforts have been
instrumental in achieving our results
during another challenging year.
Through our acquisitions of the
Midlands Co-op Dairies, Starcross Foods
and Arla’s London Foodservice business,
we welcomed several hundred new
employees into the business. Their 
co-operation and enthusiasm have
enabled us to integrate the businesses
smoothly and to schedule.
Our training and development
programmes were further enhanced this
year with the introduction of our Leading
4 Change programme aimed at first-line
managers across the business. This
programme complements our existing
management and employee training
schemes.
Pensions
In July 2005 the Group announced that
it would be closing its final salary pension
scheme to new employees joining after
1 April 2006. Following discussions with
employees representatives, this date has
been delayed to 1 July 2006. The gross
pension deficit under International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) at
31 March 2006 has reduced to £62.0m
compared to £102.7m at 31 March 2005.
This reduced deficit reflects the strong
performance from the fund’s investments
and the additional cash contribution of
£6 million made in the year, offset by the
impact of a reduction in the AA corporate
bond yield. This position will result in an
increase in the net financial income on
the pension fund in 2006/07. The pension
deficit is extremely sensitive to changes
in the underlying assumptions and
movements in the financial markets and
is likely to be volatile from year to year.
Outlook
Whilst markets for own label and
commodity products continue to be
challenging, trading at the start of the
new financial year is on track. We expect
our brand portfolio, supported by
marketing investment and further new
product development, to continue to
make good progress. The Group should
also benefit from the actions we have
taken to strengthen the Dairies division. 
Drummond Hall, Chief Executive
23 May 2006
4609_DC_p2-5_AW.qxd  7/6/06  11:37 am  Page 5
