 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
10
Introduction
This Business Review is addressed to the
members of the Company. It is framed,
having in mind the principles and
guidelines for Operating and Financial
Reviews published by the UK Accounting
Standards Board in January 2006. It
describes the main operational and
financial factors underpinning the
development, performance and position
of the Group as well as those likely to 
affect performance over the coming year .
This Chief Executive’s Review sets out the
nature, objectives and strategy of the
Group, together with the principal risks
and uncertainties we face. It is followed 
on pages 16 to 27 by a business review of
the development and performance of each
of our operating divisions. A Financial and
Treasury Review is given on pages 28 to 31.
DMGT’s philosophy
DMGT’s practice over many years has 
been to take advantage of its shareholding
structure to invest for the long term in order
to generate value for its shareholders.
Control by a founding family is a model
which has been demonstrated to serve 
the media industry well over time. We 
are prepared to have a long timeframe 
to investment maturity and realisation,
provided the business in question is
progressing well, meeting milestones 
and creating value.
Nature of the business
DMGT is a multiple media business, as
illustrated at the front of this Annual Report,
operating in different markets, each within
its particular competitive and regulatory
environments. Operational responsibility is
devolved to our six divisions, whose boards
the executive Directors chair . We operate
with a light touch from the centre, relieving
line management of overhead activities 
that do not contribute at the operating level.
DMGT’s objectives are embedded into 
the thinking of each of our divisional
management teams.
Strategy
The Group’s objective is to be the owner of
high quality sustainable media properties,
reflected in premium commercial 
positions, thereby generating a premium
return for shareholders. Over the past
decade the strategy has been to extend the
Group’s media activities so as to reduce its
dependence on UK newspapers, which 
are heavily dependent on advertising and,
due to their strong market positions, 
much regulated. 
The Group’s newspapers remain highly
profitable and we have continued to invest in
CHARLES SINCLAIR
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OUR STRATEGY OF INVESTING FOR THE
LONG-TERM FUTURE TO GENERATE A
PREMIUM RETURN FOR SHAREHOLDERS 
HAS RESUL TED IN ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
OUR STRA TEGY FOR FUTURE SUCCESS 
FOCUSES ON THREE KEY AREAS:
1. INVESTING IN OUR NEWSPAPER AND PURE
PLAY DIGIT AL BUSINESSES
2. CONTINUING TO GROW OUR OTHER MEDIA
BUSINESSES WITH STRONG LEADERSHIP
POSITIONS
3. RUNNING OUR BUSINESSES F ASTER Daily Mail and General Trust plc
11
them in order to maintain their market-
leading positions. The stability of these
businesses has underpinned the manner 
in which we have built a re-balanced Group:
by deployment of capital most successfully
in DMG Information, recently in Euromoney
Institutional Investor through its acquisition
of Metal Bulletin and in dmg world media
and DMG Radio. As a consequence, an
increased percentage of the Group’s
revenues is generated from streams other
than advertising, principally subscriptions
and events. A significant part of the asset
base is now outside the UK; the Group’s
exposure to regulation has been greatly
reduced; and it is close to passing a
significant milestone of a half of operating
profits* being derived other than 
from newspapers.
Over the last few years, it has become clear
that the Group needs to be run faster as 
the pace of change in business has grown,
particularly the threat to traditional media
forms from new technologies. This has
been evidenced by the loss of classified
advertising at the Evening Standard and 
by the decline of profits at T eletext due to
structural changes in its market.
Last year we undertook a review of
Northcliffe Newspapers which identified
the potential for further restructuring of 
its UK business in addition to that already
being undertaken as part of its Aim Higher
programme. The powerful market position
occupied by Northcliffe’s businesses in
their regional locations meant that they
were unlikely to grow faster than their local
economies. Since we saw the prospect 
of limited long-term revenue growth, a
choice lay between retaining and running
Northcliffe harder for profit and selling it.
Hence the strategic review was announced
in November 2005 when we invited third
party offers for the business, while
continuing to develop our own plans for 
it, in order to establish whether greater
shareholder value could be achieved from 
a sale than from a transformation of the
business within DMGT . 
Our view of the future for Northcliffe
improved during the review, while a number
of factors, not least trading at the time,
conspired against obtaining a full sale price.
In February the Board committed itself to
retaining the business since we believe that
Northcliffe has an excellent future as an
integrated provider of local media services.
It is positioned to provide its local and
national customers with the information
and advertising they seek through a 
range of media channels and brands. In
particular, the combination of print and
online will provide a differentiated product
range that will be unequalled in its local
markets. Northcliffe has been restructured
into six regional divisions, each headed 
by a regional managing director, with local
managing directors focused on raising
revenues in local markets. The size of 
the central support functions has been
reduced. A joint digital division, Associated
Northcliffe Digital (AND), has been
established to drive digital revenue. 
Management of the printing operations 
of Associated and Northcliffe has been
integrated and other shared services
including accounting, procurement,
marketing, fleet and human resources 
are being investigated. We do not intend 
to combine the editorial, sales or 
circulation functions.
Northcliffe has demonstrated its ability 
to reduce costs and is well placed to 
achieve an annual cost reduction target 
of £45 million by the end of September 2007.
Over the next year, it will concentrate on
revenue growth and defending its
newspaper circulations.
The continuing underlying value of our
regional newspapers was demonstrated 
in April with the sale of Aberdeen Journals
at a multiple significantly higher than that
implied by offers received for the whole 
of Northcliffe. 
At Associated Newspapers, we have
continued to invest in editorial quality and
the graph on page 17 demonstrates the
extent to which the Mail titles maintained
their circulations and continued to increase
their market share, aided by successful
promotions. In Ireland, we are now 
focused on extending the circulation for
both Mail titles.
A strategic challenge to be addressed is
Associated’s relatively low margins which
have a material impact on the Group’s
overall margins. Costs are being reduced
through the creation of shared services with
Northcliffe and, over time, the cost base 
of our national newspapers is adjusting 
to a lower level of revenue growth due to 
the likely migration online of display and
classified revenues at varying speeds. 
Our objective is to meet this challenge
without losing the powerful advertising
response from an engaged readership,
given that the Mail titles have a most 
envied position in the UK market and that
Associated are efficient producers of high
quality publications, not low cost producers
like some others. Online, companion 
websites to the newspapers have been built 
and are being re-integrated into the
editorial process. 
THE DAIL Y MAIL HAS CONTINUED TO
INCREASE ITS MARKET SHARE.
THE RECENT ACQUISITION OF MET AL
BULLETIN BY EUROMONEY WILL STEP UP
ITS PERFORMANCE.
* Adjusted profit (before exceptional items and amortisation
and impairment of intangible assets). Daily Mail and General Trust plc
12
In London, the objective is to restore the
Evening Standard to profitability in the
medium term and we have launched a new
free newspaper, London Lite, aimed at a
different consumer market, as explained 
on page 16. Associated’s track record of
thinking freshly about its titles, and creating
new titles, as with Metro some years ago, 
or adapting old ones in response to market
developments, remains undiminished. 
We intend to defend the Group’s advertising
base and to extend it, regardless of format.
Accordingly our strategy at Associated
Northcliffe Digital (AND) has involved
making investments to increase its
exposure to areas of the online advertising
market pertinent to Associated
Newspapers, being jobs, property, personal
finance, motors and dating. Building a
presence in the online travel advertising
market is being addressed by T eletext. In
total, Associated has invested £155 million
in pure play digital businesses since 2004
with the objective of being the number one
or two player in each chosen market. AND
now has annualised revenues approaching
£90 million and we look forward to strong
profit growth from this new division. Its
initial development is now largely complete
and further acquisitions are likely to be of a
smaller in-fill nature.
Our other divisions, built over the years,
have also undergone an internal review. 
At DMG Information we have invested
approximately £420 million since 1996 (net
of disposals). This year the business made 
a record £68 million operating profit* and
the growth in its profits from a standing
start in 1998, illustrated on page 23, is a
credit to its tried and tested management
team in the US. They intend to grow the
business further both by increasing revenue
expenditure on product development over
the coming year and by re-investment of 
its cash flow in acquisitions over the next
few years. 
Euromoney Institutional Investor’s
acquisitionofMetalBulletininOctober2006
willstepupitsperformancewhichisalready
being driven by the motivating impact 
of its Capital Appreciation Plan on senior
management. We expect above average
growth over the immediate future, provided
financial markets remain benign. The
acquisition was funded partly by the issue 
of new shares by Euromoney such that
DMGT’s interest has been diluted from 69%
to 61%. We regard Euromoney as a core
business and do not intend our holding to 
be reduced further .
We have invested approximately £400
million in dmg world media since 1995. 
It has suffered this year from a decline in
revenues from its consumer shows in the
UK, US and Australasia, which comprise
just over a third of the business. As a
consequence, our strategy is to grow the
business through aggregating acquisitions
and launches in the stronger business 
to business sectors and faster growing
markets. Recent acquisitions have been
concentrated on the higher growth oil and
gas portfolio and technology sectors. 
Net investment in DMG Radio Australia
since its creation in 1996 has totalled 
£200 million. The business was established
with a plan to build a national metropolitan
FM broadcasting network through the
Australian government’s licence auction
process with the intention of delivering 
an above average return on investment.
This last year has been difficult due to the
simultaneous launch – and subsequent
relaunch – of the new Vega stations 
and completion of the Nova network.
Nevertheless, our Australian radio
management remain highly concentrated
on the task before them. 
Having acquired Metal Bulletin the Group’s
net debt has risen since the year end to
around £900 million. This will preclude
major acquisitions in the short term until
that acquisition has been successfully
integrated, and our prudent debt ratios 
fully re-established. 
Resources
The Group’s main resources are its brands,
its people, its reputation and the market-
leading position of its major businesses. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties the
Group faces vary across the different
businesses and are the focus of the Risk
Committee which I chair . These risks are
identified in a Group Risk Register . The
materiality of each risk is assessed against
a framework to determine its significance
and likelihood of occurrence. The Risk
Register is used to determine the agenda
and activity of the Risk Committee. The
most material risks identified in the Risk
Register, together with the steps taken 
to mitigate them, are described below. 
The operation of the Risk Committee 
is described on page 39.
The geographic spread and diverse portfolio
of businesses within the Group helps to
reduce the impact of many of the risks
identified below. Certain of these risks 
are interdependent and should not be
considered in isolation.
Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
£68m
PROFIT MADE BY DMG
INFORMA TION THIS YEAR.
£155m
THE AMOUNT INVESTED 
BY ASSOCIA TED IN 
PURE PLAY DIGITAL 
BUSINESSES.
ONE ELEMENT OF THE GROUP’S STRA TEGY 
IS TO DEFEND AND EXTEND ITS ADVERTISING
BASE THROUGH THE ONLINE MARKET .
* Adjusted profit (before exceptional items and amortisation
and impairment of intangible assets). Daily Mail and General Trust plc
13
The impact of technological and market
changes on our competitive advantage
Our businesses operate in highly
competitive environments that can be
subject to rapid change. Our products and
services, and their means of delivery, are
affected by technological innovations,
changing legislation, competitor activity or
changing customer behaviour . A structural
change in the advertising market, resulting
in significant advertising moving away from
our traditional products to the internet,
could significantly affect our results. 
We have developed an internet strategy 
for each of our main segments of
advertising revenue. We have a
decentralised autonomous culture that
encourages an entrepreneurial approach 
to the development of new opportunities 
in response to these threats and we must
continue to invest and adapt to remain
competitive. Our strategy of diversification
and willingness to take a long-term view
helps us to react to these challenges 
and opportunities. 
Pension scheme shortfalls
We operate defined benefit schemes for 
our newspaper divisions and certain senior
executives. Reported earnings may be
adversely affected by changes in our
pension costs and funding requirements
due to lower than expected investment
returns, changes in demographics and
higher life expectancy. These risks are
being worked on with the scheme trustees
to agree an appropriate funding approach
and an asset allocation strategy designed to
reduce and diversify the risk inherent in the
investment portfolios. These measures are
in addition to the introduction last year of 
a two-tier benefit structure in the defined
benefit schemes, providing greater
employee choice with increased member
contributions in the top tier . These actions,
together with the operation of defined
contribution pension plans in all other
divisions and overseas, have helped
to reduce pension liabilities and control 
the pension costs incurred by the Group. 
Currency risk
Currency exchange rate fluctuations have
an impact on the Group’s reported earnings.
Over 40% of the Group’s operating profits
are generated from revenues invoiced in 
US dollars. The impact of currency rate
fluctuations is partly offset by the levels of
US dollar debt incurred. The policies and
procedures in place to manage these risks
are discussed in the Financial and Treasury
Review on page 30. 
Impact of a major disaster or outbreak 
of disease
Any disaster, such as a geopolitical event 
or a pandemic, such as avian flu, which
significantly affects the wider environment
or infrastructure in a sector where the
Group has material operations could
adversely affect the Group. Although plans
and procedures are in place to manage 
the impact of such risks, the event might
affect our ability to produce and deliver 
our products, or reduce the demand for
them. The importance of travel to many 
of our event businesses increases the
sensitivity of our results to such incidents
that may affect confidence in travel to
specific destinations.
Acquisition risk 
As well as launching and building new
businesses, an integral part of our success
has, and will continue to be, the acquisition
of businesses that complement our existing
products or expand the scope of our
expertise into new markets. A number of
risks are inherent within any strategy to
acquire. The Group generally acquires
businesses with a high potential for growth
in related markets. This results in the
majority of acquisitions considered being
smaller add-on acquisitions, which reduces
the size of the risk of each acquisition to the
Group. The Metal Bulletin acquisition is the
Group’s first acquisition over £100 million
since 1988. 
Exposure to changes in the economy 
and customer spending patterns
General economic conditions and the
financial health of our customers affect 
the performance of all of our businesses 
to some degree. A significant proportion 
of our revenue is derived from advertising
spending which has historically been
cyclical, with companies spending less on
advertising in times of economic slowdown.
Our commitment to investment in our core
brands and products helps us to reduce 
the effect of these fluctuations by
maintaining the strength of our products 
in their markets. 
Dependence on information technology
and the integrity of data
All of our businesses are dependent on
technology to some degree. Disruption to
our information technology infrastructure
or breaches in our data security systems
could adversely affect our businesses and
damage our reputation. This could arise
from loss of service from third parties,
operational failures, or sabotage (including
virus and hacker attacks). The information
security and business continuity risks and
mitigating controls vary for our different
businesses and so responsibility rests with
LIKE THE DAIL Y MAIL, THE MAIL ON SUNDAY
HAS MAINT AINED ITS CIRCULA TION THROUGH 
ITS HIGH QUALITY . Daily Mail and General Trust plc
14
each of the divisional management 
teams. Both of these risks were a focus 
of the Risk Committee during the year .
Assessments were completed to
understand the effectiveness of the
mitigating controls in each area and to
highlight any areas for improvement. 
Price volatility of newsprint
Newsprint represents a significant
proportionofourcostswithintheNewspaper
divisions. Newsprint prices are subject to
volatility arising from variations in supply
and demand. Whilst generally these
variations are not large and therefore not
significant to the Group, there have been
periods historically where the impact to the
Group was material and a repeat of such
events cannot be ruled out. 
Reliance on key management and staff
In order to pursue our strategy, we are
reliant on key management and staff
across all our businesses. We cannot
predict with certainty that we will enjoy
continued success in our recruitment
and retention of high quality management
and creative talent.
Share price performance
Over time our strong historic operating
performance has been recognised by the
market, as can be seen from the graphs on
pages 15 and 48. The price of our widely
traded ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares is
now higher than five years ago, during
which period it has experienced a turbulent
time due largely to the weakness of UK
advertising markets. We still appear to be
valued mainly as a UK newspaper stock,
despite only half of our profits coming 
from that source. Over the last year, the
share price received a temporary hike on
market expectations of the sale of
Northcliffe at a premium price and it fell
over the summer as the market fled from
“traditional media”. As a result DMGT came
out of the FTSE 100 share index. In recent
months it has risen on market perceptions
of an improvement in UK advertising
conditions. Share performance remains
important to us as a measure that our
strategy and balance are understood and
recognised by the market.
Capital structure
The Company has not made a capital call 
on its shareholders for over seventy years.
Capital growth is provided by long-term
debt and by retained earnings. DMGT’s
policy is to seek to increase the dividend
each year by 5% to 7% in real terms, within
reason regardless of the results, as long as
we continue to have confidence in the
strength of our businesses. As shown on
page 15, the compound dividend growth
over the last ten years is 10% in 
nominal terms. 
In March, we announced our intention,
following the disposal of Aberdeen
Journals, an expected reduction in capital
expenditure and the significant cost
reductions being achieved at Northcliffe, 
to start a share buy-back programme of 
‘ A ’ shares under the general authority
approved at the AGM in February 2006. 
In the first twelve months, the Board’s
intention is to return approximately 
£50 million to shareholders. So far we have
acquired 3.5 million shares for a total of
£21.5 million which are held as Treasury
shares. DMGT is effectively giving a 4% 
yield to its shareholders by a combination 
of this buy-back and its annual dividend.
Relationships with stakeholders, 
other than shareholders
Environmental, employee, social and
community issues are taken seriously by
the Company, as set out in the Corporate
Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 34.
DMGT also has a dedicated Corporate
Responsibility section on its website
which is updated regularly. The Board has
policies on the environment and on equal
opportunities for employees, as well as on
whistleblowing and health and safety. All of
these policies are established and set out
on the DMGT extranet.
DMGT and the environment
We recognise that our businesses have 
an impact on the environment through 
our printing operations, offices, transport
and other business activities. We are
committed to ensuring that where practical
any adverse impact on the environment
from our activities will be minimised. 
The major environmental impacts arise 
in our printing operations where we focus
on newsprint, energy, CO
2
, water and ink
efficiencies. We have gathered the data 
over each of the last five years in order to
monitor each of these impacts, and graphs
illustrating them are set out on our website.
The overall trend is positive. For example,
as shown in the graph (left), CO
2
efficiency
improved again this year due in part to the
closure of a number of less efficient print
centres, but also to our continued 
efforts to reduce energy consumption
through measures implemented at a
number of sites. 
DMGT and our employees
Our record on retention of staff remains
good, aided by our autonomous culture and
by our provision of the appropriate form of
pension provision to all our employees. In
this regard, DMGT has kept open its final
salary pension schemes in the UK
Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
CO
2
EFFICIENCY HAS IMPROVED AGAIN,
REFLECTING FURTHER PROGRESS FROM
THE CLOSURE OF A NUMBER OF LESS
EFFICIENT PRINT CENTRES AND 
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO REDUCE 
ENERGY CONSUMPTION.
2
4
6
8
10
12
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
CO 2 efficiency (tonnes CO 2 /
tonnes of newsprint output)
CO
2
EFFICIENCY   
NEWSPRINT OUTPUT (TONNES)/CO
2
EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY Daily Mail and General Trust plc
15
+
169%
OUR RELA TIVE SHARE
PRICE PERFORMANCE 
SINCE 1988.
newspaper divisions where people tend to
stay with us for a long time and where the
average age is higher . In the other divisions,
which are more international and where
employees are generally younger, we
believe defined contribution pension plans
are more appropriate. 
The number of employees has fallen from
18,214 at the beginning of the year to 16,033
at the end, a reduction of 12%. Of this
reduction, 2,050 was due to the sale of
Study Group and of Aberdeen Journals.
The number of employees within Northcliffe
fell by a further 900 (14%) as a consequence
of its reorganisation programme.
Trends and factors likely to affect 
the outlook
The new financial year has started well 
with signs of a gentle recovery in some
sectors of the national advertising market,
with our national titles producing strong
circulation results in an ever competitive
market. Whilst Northcliffe is not yet 
seeing much improvement in advertising
conditions, continued falls in revenues are
being offset by cost reductions. We expect
DMG Information to maintain its strong
underlying revenue growth, albeit with profit
growth possibly tempered a little this year
by investment in new products, and for AND
to have another growth year . Pre-tax profits
should also benefit from Euromoney’s
continuing organic growth and from its
acquisition of Metal Bulletin.
Overall the Board is cautiously optimistic 
of achieving another year of progress.
CHARLES SINCLAIR
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Sept 88
Sept 89
Sept 90
Sept 91
Sept 92
Sept 93
Sept 94
Sept 95
Sept 96
Sept 97
Sept 98
Sept 99
Sept 00
Sept 01
Sept 02
Sept 03
Sept 04
Sept 06
Sept 05
0
6
12
4
10
2
8
14
£
PERFORMANCE OF DMGT ‘ A ’ PRICE SINCE 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1988 
AND OF FT ALL-SHARE INDEX RELATIVE TO ITS VALUE AT THAT DATE
DMGT ‘A’ (MONTHLY CLOSING PRICE)
FT ALL-SHARE INDEX
0
2
4
6
8
10
14
12
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
DMGT DIVIDEND HISTORY FOR THE PERIOD 1988 – 2006
(PENCE)
+
10%
COMPOUND DIVIDEND
GROWTH OVER THE 
LAST TEN YEARS.
-
12%
THE NUMBER OF
EMPLOYEES FELL 
BY 12% DUE TO
DISPOSALS AND
NORTHCLIFFE’S
REORGANISATION.
