 03
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
new financial year with more revenue
booked for the new year than it achieved
last year .
Euromoney Institutional Investor benefited
from buoyant financial markets. An
incentive scheme has restricted reported
profitgrowth,buthasgalvanisedEuromoney
into generating greater organic growth. Its
recent acquisition of Metal Bulletin is the
largest external acquisition that the 
DMGT Group has ever made. We expect
it to be quickly integrated.
DMG World Media and DMG Radio 
Australia both had a difficult year, affected
by downturns in consumer advertising.
Both had bright spots, with strongly
growing exhibitions in the Middle East and
in the recently created technology sector .
The latest Nova stations in Adelaide and
particularly Brisbane have performed 
well since launch. Both divisions should
increase their return on our investments 
in the next year .
Associated Newspapers had to cope with
the competitive national newspaper market,
as well as with an advertising downturn.
The circulation performances have
improved as the year progressed and we
have once more significantly outperformed
the rest of Fleet Street. Advertising, too,
has seen some improvement recently,
doubtless partly as a result of the papers’
circulation strength. While Metro continues
to thrive, the Evening Standard has faced
two new free competitors, one of them our
own London Lite. The Standard is London’s
quality newspaper and this makes it
remarkably resilient.
Northcliffe has had a year of upheaval. 
We reviewed the business early in 2006 
and concluded that shareholders would do
better if we retained the business, rather
than sell it. Since then, we have been
implementing our plan to increase
shareholder value, including regionalising
the management structure and developing
digital operations linked to the newspapers.
We sold our Aberdeen titles for an excellent
price. I have recently visited many of the
centres and have been most impressed by
the positive attitude in Northcliffe, despite
all this change. 
I had the pleasure in May of opening our
new building in Szeged, in southern
Hungary. We are developing a solid
business there, in Slovakia and in
neighbouring countries.
I make no apology for talking again this year
about the internet. It is having a fundamental
effect on all media businesses and we must
continue to invest in it. We have created
Associated Northcliffe Digital to take
advantage of the outstanding opportunities
that the internet offers, both to expand our
print titles and in its own right. We have
invested more than £150 million to create
one of the UK’s largest online consumer
networks covering jobs, property, personal
finance, travel, motors and dating. This
investment is already giving us a good return
and we shall continue to invest in this area.
The Board will lose the wise counsel of
Frank Lowy from the end of the AGM.
Frank’s is a remarkable success story and
he has been an excellent adviser both to my
father and to me. With the approval of
shareholders,we will welcome Nicholas
Berry, whose broad experience of media and
investment will be valuable to the Board.
I have already complimented the employees
of Northcliffe. I extend this to all our
employees who have produced such a
resilient trading performance this year . 
We are well positioned for developments 
in the media landscape and our titles and
people will enable us to continue to prosper .
ROTHERMERE
WE ARE WELL POSITIONED 
FOR DEVEL OPMENTS IN THE
MEDIA LANDSCAPE.
I AM PLEASED TO REPORT
ANOTHER RECORD 
PROFIT FOR THE GROUP
DESPITE SOME DIFFICUL T
ADVERTISING MARKETS AND
CLAIMS THAT TRADITIONAL
MEDIA WERE LOSING THEIR
PLACE IN THE WORLD. 
THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We owe much to the strength of our titles
and brands, as well as to our investments 
in newer media sectors. Adjusted profit*
before tax, calculated in accordance with
International Accounting Standards for the
first time, rose by 9% to £260 million.
Revenues were up 2% to £2,176 million.
The best part of this rise was due to another
sparkling performancebyDMGInformation.
All its companies increased their profits and
see good opportunities to expand further .
We entered another market through the
acquisition of Genscape, the world’s only
provider of real-time data on power
generation, and sold Study Group for a 
good price. 
DMG Information’s quality of earnings from
largely subscription businesses is high –
Risk Management Solutions entered the
* Adjusted profit (before exceptional items and amortisation and
impairment of intangible assets).
