 The year in brief
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s review 7
Overview
Making progress 
in difficult times
February 2009 and the decline rate has 
started to improve. 
 It is not just consumer markets that 
became tougher during the year. World 
dairy commodity prices fell dramatically as 
increased production outpaced demand. 
Inevitably this had an adverse effect on the 
profitability of our Ingredients business. 
Dairy commodity returns remain low as we 
enter 2009/10 and we have taken steps to 
reduce the amount of milk balanced into 
skimmed milk powder as well as reducing 
our milk purchase prices.
Financial results
The Group’s turnover increased to £1,648 
million (2008: £1,570 million). This 5% 
increase reflects good volume growth 
across our key brands and higher prices 
achieved across the range of our products. 
 Group profit before tax was up 56% at 
£103.2 million (2008: £66.0 million). After 
adjusting for £26.4 million of exceptional 
profit (2008: £21.1 million cost), £6.9 million 
pension interest credit (2008: £10.1 million) 
and £9.6 million of acquired intangible 
amortisation costs (2008: £9.0 million) 
adjusted profit before tax was down 8% at 
£79.5 million (2008: £86.0 million). Basic 
earnings per share were 56.8 pence (2008: 
40.2 pence). Adjusted basic earnings per 
share decreased by 13% to 45.0 pence 
(2008: 51.7 pence). 
 Group net debt at 31 March 2009 
was £415.8 million, £59 million lower than 
at 31 March 2008 when the debt was 
£474.8 million. This reflects the proceeds 
from the sale of the 49% stake in Yoplait 
Dairy Crest, which was sold during the 
year. Although our Euro denominated 
debt increased as sterling weakened in 
the middle of the year we offset this by 
increased focus on cash management. 
As an example we reduced our year end 
Overview
Dairy Crest has made significant progress 
in a number of areas during the year. 
Our brands have again delivered good 
growth and we have continued to reduce 
costs and improve efficiencies. We have 
made progress on our plans to move from 
commodity processor to added value food 
manufacturer by disposing of our Stilton 
and speciality cheese business and the 
sale of our 49% stake in Yoplait Dairy Crest 
Limited allows us to focus more strongly on 
core brands we own outright. 
 However, we have also had to meet 
the challenge of a global recession and the 
most difficult dairy commodity markets that 
many in the industry have ever witnessed. 
Against this backdrop our financial 
performance in the year has been sound.
 This year we have made a material 
reduction in our net debt, our brands are in 
good shape and our profits are in line with 
our November 2008 forecast. 
Market environment
Consumers are at the heart of our business 
and we have worked with our major 
retail customers to offset the difficulties 
consumers have faced from the recession. 
By advertising, and importantly, promoting 
our brands more in both the UK and on 
the Continent we have delivered good 
brand growth in the year. We will continue 
with this strategy into 2009/10. We are 
convinced that this investment is in the 
best interest of shareholders in the medium 
and longer term.
 Our doorstep business, which had 
consistently improved decline rates over a 
number of years, was adversely impacted 
by the recession and by the need to pass 
on higher raw milk prices in the early part 
of the year. This has been addressed; milk 
prices have fallen by around 10% since 
Mark Allen
Business highlights and 
recent developments:
Dairy Crest has made signiﬁ cant 
progress in a number of areas 
this year:
• Maintained strong brand growth
• Reduced net debt by £59 million
• Heightened focus on cost control
Greater emphasis on advertising 
and promoting key brands to 
underpin brand growth
Innovation delivering results:
•  ‘Lighter’ brand extensions have 
grown sales
•  New cheese packing facility will 
provide a great platform for 
cheese innovation
•  Full roll out of ‘milk&more’ planned 
for summer 2009
•  Head ofﬁ ce restructure, investment 
in Regional Distribution Centres, 
dairy closure and depot closures 
drive down costs
Increased focus following disposal 
of Stilton and speciality cheese 
business and 49% stake in Yoplait 
Dairy Crest
Pension Fund deﬁ cit payments 
to resume from October 2009 at 
£20 million per annum
Dividend rebased: ﬁ nal dividend 
13.0 pence per share
DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd 7 DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd   7 1/6/09 16:13:46 1/6/09   16:13:46  8 Chief Executive’s review continued
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009
Media expenditure 
on five key brands 
up 40%
year on year
debtors by £48 million this year. During 
December 2008 and January 2009 we 
swapped €225 million of Euro denominated 
debt into sterling to reduce the effect of 
future currency movements on the Group’s 
net debt and banking covenants.
Growing brands
Our brands have made good progress 
this year. We felt it essential to continue 
to promote our brands in order to provide 
hard-pressed consumers with the value 
they were looking for and to reassure 
them, through advertising, of the quality our 
brands deliver. This strategy created strong 
growth in the year and leaves our brands 
well placed to continue to deliver during 
the downturn.
 Cathedral City remains by far the 
UK’s most popular cheddar brand and is 
now the 21st largest UK food and drink 
brand as measured by The Grocer trade 
magazine. It has annual retail sales in 
excess of £190 million. The brand has 
grown market share and remains larger 
than the next three cheddar brands 
combined. We are particularly proud of the 
progress we have made with Cathedral 
City since we bought the brand in 1995 
when annual sales were less than £20 
million. By investing in product quality, 
television advertising and innovative 
packaging we have grown sales to their 
current level. 
  Our two key UK spreads brands; 
Clover and Country Life have also grown 
strongly over the year. Clover is up 29% 
by volume and 33% by value and Country 
Life is up 29% by volume and 24% by 
value. Both have benefited from increased 
expenditure on television advertising. A 
particular highlight has been the success 
of the Country Life “Great British Butter” 
advertising campaign, featuring John Lydon. 
In France, our Spreads business, 
St Hubert, has delivered in line with 
expectations and has made a significant 
contribution to the profitability of the Group 
as a whole.
 This year St Hubert has strengthened 
its leading market positions in France and 
Italy. In France, St Hubert Omega 3 is the 
leading ‘health’ spread and has increased 
its market share to 21%, an all time high. 
In Italy, St Hubert’s subsidiary, Vallé Italia, 
remains the clear market leader with a 
market share of 55%.
Innovating now and for the future
A key element of our strategy is innovation 
to ensure that we can continue to meet 
consumers’ ever-changing needs. 
Innovation is not restricted to developing 
new products, where we have been 
successful; it is also about finding new 
ways of carrying out business that can 
reduce costs and increase efficiencies 
and capacities.
 Our ‘lighter’ brand extensions have seen 
strong sales growth during the year. As 
well as promoting the good things in dairy 
products we also recognise that we need to 
offer our consumers choice. We are really 
pleased with the progress we have made 
in developing lower fat alternatives that do 
not compromise on taste. Our reduced 
fat cheese, Cathedral City Mature Lighter, 
has 30% less fat than standard cheddar 
and now accounts for over 10% of total 
Cathedral City sales. Together our three 
‘lighter’ brands had combined retail sales 
of more than £40 million in the year, over 
double those of 2008.
 Product innovation has not been solely 
focussed on our brands. We have worked 
with Sainsbury’s and Morrisons to develop 
and supply milk with only 1% fat. The 
development of new products for our retail 
customers is a key part of our strategy 
going forward.
 Our investment in a new cheese packing 
facility at Nuneaton is progressing well. This 
gives us the opportunity to develop new and 
innovative packaging formats as it becomes 
operational this year.
 We are accelerating our investment 
in our new doorstep internet proposition, 
milk&more. This will increase sales of 
products to doorstep customers. It offers 
them an innovative solution, allowing them 
to order and pay on-line. Having extensively 
trialled this service this year and invested in 
a new website, we will roll milk&more out 
across around 120 depots this summer.
 We have completed our investment in 
two new Regional Distribution Centres for 
our Dairies division, this will reduce costs 
and free up valuable capacity in our dairies. 
Cutting costs
In times of recession controlling costs 
and improving operational efficiencies are 
even more important. Early in the year we 
identified the need to improve our value 
offer to consumers. One of the ways to do 
this was to make sure our cost base was 
minimised.
 We carried out a review of our central 
and support functions and as a result 
implemented a head office restructure in 
September 2008. This reduced headcount 
by around 100 people and positioned us 
better for the rapidly changing market.
 Controlling our Dairies division’s 
costs is vitally important. We have made 
particularly encouraging progress in this 
respect, especially in the reduction of 
waste in our dairies. Following on from 
the closure of Totnes in September 2007 
we shut the Nottingham dairy in February 
2009. We have also closed 15 household 
depots over the year. These reductions 
Core brand Market Market  Brand 
  growth* growth**
13%
17%
8%
22%
33%
48%
UK Cheese
UK dairy 
spreads
UK 
spreadable 
butter
DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd 8 DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd   8 29/5/09 16:48:16 29/5/09   16:48:16 French 
non butter 
spreads
Flavoured 
milk
by 6%. We have also implemented a 
comprehensive new induction programme 
for new employees and introduced a value-
based leadership training programme.
 We continue to work with our 
customers and suppliers to build 
responsible supply chains. All four of 
our major liquid milk customers have 
established milk groups, linking them 
with dairy farmers. These groups benefit 
customer and supplier and help give much 
needed stability. 
Outlook
The market downturn is well documented. 
Against this difficult background we have 
delivered a sound performance and 
taken a number of actions to position the 
business now and for the future. Our plans 
for 2009/10 are to maintain our focus on 
cash management and to continue the 
development of our key brands. 
 We are a broadly based dairy business. 
The benefits of this will be demonstrated 
during 2009/10 as stock profits in our 
cheese business unwind and those in our 
Dairies division increase to compensate. 
 Trading at the start of the year is in line 
with expectations and we believe that our 
business is in good shape to deliver in 
the year ahead. In addition we are well 
placed to benefit when the external 
environment improves. 
Mark Allen Chief Executive
18 May 2009
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009
9
Overview
 Source:
*  
AC Nielsen or IRI or TNS 26 week
MAT value growth to March 2009
** 
Dairy Crest sales growth by value
enable us to deliver competitive prices for 
our customers and consumers without 
compromising on service or quality. They 
also mean that over time we can improve 
the returns for our shareholders. 
Focussing the business
Our long-term plan remains to reduce 
exposure to commodity markets and focus 
on brands which we own outright. The 
decisions to make two significant disposals 
are in line with this. In August 2008 we sold 
our Stilton and speciality cheese business 
and in March 2009 we sold our 49% stake 
in Yoplait Dairy Crest. These sales allow 
greater focus on the ongoing parts of our 
business and reduce our exposure to 
external influences. 
Looking after our people and the 
community as we grow
Dairy Crest is a responsible business. 
In 2009 we have continued with our plans 
to reduce our impact on the environment. 
In particular we have developed innovative 
new packaging, which gives consumers 
the ability to buy their milk in bags rather 
than plastic bottles. This reduces material 
usage and makes recycling easier. Our 
factories have cut down on water usage; 
for example at Davidstow the water used 
to clean the factory is condensed as part of 
the whey handling process. In conjunction 
with our dairy farmer suppliers we have 
developed an on-farm environmental 
scorecard. This project will help to reduce 
the carbon footprint of the milk we buy.
 We continue to train and empower 
our people so that every employee can 
maximise their individual potential and take 
responsibility for their actions. We have 
repeated our staff survey, first carried out 
in 2007. Results are encouraging with 
the overall engagement score improving 
We have delivered 
good growth in 
brands, achieved 
a material reduction 
in net debt, 
reduced costs 
and improved 
our operating 
efficiencies
1%
6%
9%
23%
Core brand Market Market  Brand 
  growth* growth**
DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd 9 DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd   9 29/5/09 16:48:17 29/5/09   16:48:17
