  6 Chairman’s statement
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009
ensure that the business is well funded to 
invest in its brands and into efficiency-driven 
capital projects. Accordingly, it has decided 
to rebase this and future dividends by 25% 
and is recommending a final dividend of 
13.0 pence per share. As a result, the total 
dividend for the 2008/9 financial year will 
be 20.1 pence. Looking forward, the Board 
will seek to resume its progressive dividend 
policy from the rebased level whilst seeking to 
maintain dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
 The strong performance by our brands 
this year was very encouraging. Clover has 
recovered from its product recall in May 
2007 and both Country Life and FRijj have 
responded to increased marketing activity. 
Cathedral City goes from strength to strength 
and is a key element of the improvement 
we have made to our cheese business over 
the past ten years. We now have a very 
well invested cheese supply chain, which 
has been completed this year with our new 
packing facility at Nuneaton. There is still a 
significant opportunity to develop branded 
cheese sales further and we are well placed 
to lead this. Our French spreads acquisition 
has lived up to the high expectations we had 
when we purchased this business in 2007 and 
provides a valuable platform into Continental 
markets which over time will enable us to 
develop our overseas business further.
 Our Dairies division has made real 
improvements in its manufacturing and 
distribution cost base. Coupled with savings 
from restructuring our head office we have 
improved our competitive position.
 During the year we chose to sell our Stilton 
and speciality cheese business and the 49% 
share in Yoplait Dairy Crest. Looking forward 
this will allow us to increase the Group’s 
focus on brands which we own outright.
 There has been one change to the Board 
this year; the departure of Martin Oakes from 
his position of Executive Managing Director, 
This year has been an important one 
for Dairy Crest in our journey from 
commodity processor to added value food 
manufacturer. We have shown ourselves 
capable of developing our business in a 
difficult economic environment by growing 
brands and improving operational efficiency.
 In these circumstances I am able to 
report a sound financial performance. 
Our Foods division benefited from brand 
growth and delivered strong margins. Our 
Dairies division faced a more challenging 
environment and its profits were adversely 
affected by high milk purchase prices and 
weak dairy commodity markets. Overall 
Group profit before taxation increased 56% 
to £103.2 million and earnings per share 
increased 41% to 56.8 pence. However 
Group adjusted profit before taxation* fell 
8% to £79.5 million and adjusted basic 
earnings per share* fell 13% to 45.0 pence. 
 We made good progress on a number 
of fronts. In addition to the ongoing growth 
we have seen in all our key brands, we 
continue to reduce our costs and become 
more efficient. Structurally, we made two 
disposals and we continue to invest to 
improve our asset base. Importantly in the 
current market we renewed our main bank 
facility for five years and now have no debt 
facilities maturing before November 2011.
 The Board remains confident that the 
business is well positioned to deliver in the 
year ahead and, following the disposal of 
its stake in Yoplait Dairy Crest, the Group’s 
net debt position has improved considerably 
and the Group is operating comfortably 
within its banking covenants. However, in 
light of additional cash contributions to the 
pension fund and the dilutive effect of the 
Yoplait Dairy Crest disposal on 2009/10 
earnings the Board has reviewed the Group’s 
dividend policy. The Board has concluded 
that it is sensible to conserve cash and 
Dairies division. We chose not to replace 
Martin on the Board. Mike Sheldon and Toby 
Brinsmead, who are the Managing Directors 
of our Household and Liquids businesses 
respectively, now report directly to Mark 
Allen. This structure is working well. Since 
the end of the year David Richardson has 
announced that he will leave the Board 
when a suitable replacement has been 
found. That process is underway. We thank 
Martin and David for their contributions.
 I continue to value the relationship 
we have with our dairy farmers who have 
supplied us with milk during the year. They 
play a key role in our business. It is important 
that we continue to take their views into 
account as we move forward and I believe 
we have the right structure in place to do this.
 The improvements we have made this 
year would not have been possible without the 
hard work of all our employees. We have a 
strong workforce, led by an experienced and 
well-motivated leadership team. In the tough 
trading environment we failed to achieve the 
demanding targets we had set ourselves and 
as a result our employees have not received 
discretionary bonuses this year. However 
we value the work they have done and I 
would like to thank all employees for their 
contribution to the success of the Group. 
 Overall I am pleased by the progress the 
Group has made and that our business is 
becoming increasingly robust. We remain a 
broadly based dairy business and I am happy 
that this model offers a strong base from 
which we can continue to grow.
Simon Oliver Chairman
18 May 2009
*
Excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and the interest credit in respect of 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes.
Simon Oliver
A sound financial 
performance
DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd 6 DC_AR09_FC-p25_28-5-09.indd   6 1/6/09 16:08:15 1/6/09   16:08:15
