 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 13
Chairman’s statement
the effects of the economic recession 
on the consumer by increasing our 
investment in our brands. This additional 
expenditure on marketing and promotions 
has contributed to lower profits in our 
Spreads and Cheese divisions. 
  Overall, Group adjusted profit before 
taxation* increased 5% to £83.5 million. 
However, as expected, a higher tax charge 
led to reduced adjusted basic earnings per 
share* of 44.5 pence compared to 45.0 
pence last year. Reported Group profit 
before taxation fell 25% to £77.8 million 
(2009: £103.2 million). This reduction 
is principally due to the £50.4 million 
exceptional gain on the sale of our stake in 
Yoplait Dairy Crest last year.
  Importantly, we have generated cash 
ahead of our forecasts and this has allowed 
us to reduce our debt by more and sooner 
than we anticipated when we made our 
last major acquisition, that of St Hubert 
in France in 2007. As a result the Group’s 
financial position is much stronger than it 
was eighteen months ago. This underpins 
our ability to invest for the future.
  The strong financial performance of 
the business and our confidence in its 
future prospects has allowed the Board to 
recommend a final dividend of 13.6 pence 
per share, an increase of 5%. As a result, 
the total dividend for the financial year 
2009/10 will be 18.9 pence per share. The 
Board intends to maintain its progressive 
dividend policy and will seek to maintain 
dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
  We have also made good progress in 
addressing the pension scheme issues 
that face us. The Board has approved the 
payment of additional cash contributions 
of £20 million per annum to the pension 
fund. These started in October 2009. We 
have also now closed the defined benefit 
pension scheme to future accrual. This 
significantly reduces future risk to the 
business. It is a credit to all concerned 
that the pension scheme changes were 
achieved with little adverse effect on the 
relationship with our employees.
Delivering against our strategy
I was delighted to take over as Chairman 
on 1 January 2010 and want to thank my 
predecessor, Simon Oliver, for all he did 
to transform the business. The Group has 
progressed enormously under Simon’s 
leadership over the last ten years, and he 
leaves the business very well positioned 
for the future. In his role as Honorary 
Group President following his retirement 
from the Board, he helps us to continue to 
develop our key relationship with the 1,350 
dairy farmers who supply milk directly to 
the Group, providing us with his extensive 
knowledge and experience of the dairy 
industry. We can demonstrate strong 
progress in this area over recent years and 
Simon’s involvement will help maintain  
the momentum that we and Dairy Crest 
Direct, our suppliers’ representative group, 
now have.
  This has been a good year for Dairy 
Crest in which we have delivered against 
the strategy that we put in place eighteen 
months ago. At that time, in an extremely 
uncertain and challenging environment, 
we set out the following priorities: to 
continue to develop market-leading 
positions in branded and added value 
markets; to focus on cost reduction and 
efficiency improvements; and to drive 
cash generation in order to reduce our 
debt. Eighteen months on, it gives me 
great pleasure to be able to report that we 
have delivered against all these strategic 
objectives. The strong performance 
seen last year places the business in a 
good position, and fit for future growth 
opportunities, both organically and by 
acquisition if suitable opportunities arise.
  Dairy Crest is a broadly based dairy 
business and the Group’s performance 
in 2009/10 demonstrates the benefits 
of this. Our Dairies division performed 
particularly well last year. This division has 
bounced back from a difficult 2008/09 
and is benefiting from a series of efficiency 
projects and higher cream prices. In 2008 
we made a conscious decision to combat 
Alongside the delivery of a strong financial 
performance, we have developed a 
corporate vision and set of core values 
that give everyone working in and with 
our business a clear and aligned sense 
of purpose. One of our core values is 
‘we care’ which takes in our corporate 
responsibility programme. This programme 
has gathered pace over the past year 
during which time we have made real 
progress on environmental improvements.
  Apart from Simon Oliver’s departure, 
there has been one other change to 
the Board this year. On 1 August 2009 
Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed as 
Non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. In this role he 
succeeded David Richardson who left the 
Board on the same date. We welcome 
Andrew to the Board and thank David for 
his contribution to the business.
  Finally, the improvements we 
continue to make would not have been 
possible without the hard work of all our 
employees. We have a strong workforce, 
led by an experienced and well-motivated 
leadership team. We greatly value the 
work they have done and I would like to 
thank all employees for their contribution 
to the ongoing success of the Group.
  Overall I am pleased by the strong 
progress the Group has made over the 
past year, and am optimistic and excited 
about our future prospects. In summary, 
we are a broadly based dairy business 
with a clear strategy, a strong vision, 
robust values and good people. We are fit 
for the future.
  Anthony Fry Chairman
  17 May 2010
*
  Excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and the interest charge / credit in respect 
of defined benefit pension schemes.
Overview
WE LEAD
WE VALUE SUCCESS 
 AND STRIVE  
 TO BE THE BEST
