 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive’s review
Fit for the future
This has been an exciting year for Dairy 
Crest. We have consistently delivered 
on our strategy of brand investment, 
cost reduction and cash generation, and 
have strengthened the business for the 
future. During the year, we have increased 
operating profits and significantly cut 
our borrowings, and at the same time 
continued to develop our key brands 
and other added value sales. We have 
demonstrated our commitment to our 
Dairies business by announcing a major 
capital investment programme. In addition 
we have continued to innovate with 
further developments in our new doorstep 
internet proposition. We have substantially 
reduced our pension scheme exposure 
and completed the important work we 
have been doing to set out our corporate 
Vision and Values. We believe we are in a 
strong position to continue this progress in 
the future.
 
Financial results
Strong growth in sales of key brands and 
liquid milk to retailers, which together 
increased by £52 million, were offset by 
planned lower sales of dairy ingredients 
and lower sales to doorstep and middle 
ground milk customers. The Group’s 
revenue for the year ended 31 March 2010 
was £1,630 million (2009: £1,648 million). 
 Adjusted Group profit before tax 
was up 5% at £83.5 million (2009: £79.5 
million). After adjusting for £4.0 million of net 
exceptional profit (2009: £26.4 million), £0.5 
million other finance expense (2009: £6.9 
million credit) and £9.2 million of acquired 
intangible amortisation costs (2009: £9.6 
million) reported profit before tax was down 
25% at £77.8 million (2009: £103.2 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share fell by 
1% to 44.5 pence (2009: 45.0 pence).
 Group net debt at 31 March 2010 
was £337.2 million, which was better than 
expected and £78.6 million lower than at 
31 March 2009 when the debt was  
£415.8 million. 
Increased profits and lower borrowings
Operating profits have increased and at 
the same time we have invested more in 
innovation and marketing our key brands. 
This has been possible because our focus 
on cost control has delivered efficiency 
improvements and strong cash generation. 
This in turn has led to lower borrowings 
and reduced interest costs.
 Our Dairies division has performed 
strongly and has benefited from lower 
costs and higher cream returns during 
the year. This has been partly offset by 
lower profits in our Spreads and Cheese 
divisions where, in line with our strategy to 
continue to grow our key brands, we have 
spent more on advertising and promotions 
during the year.
  We are confident that this ongoing 
marketing investment leaves our brands 
well placed for further profitable growth.
  It is particularly pleasing to be able to 
report overall profit growth without cheese 
stock profits, which in 2008/09 contributed 
around £10 million to operating profit. The 
increase has also been achieved without a 
contribution from our 49% stake in Yoplait 
Dairy Crest which was sold in March 2009.
 
Growing added value sales
We continue to grow sales in three areas 
of strategic importance.
 
1. Key brands – our five key brands 
(Cathedral City, Country Life, St Hubert 
Oméga 3, Clover and FRijj) have continued 
to perform strongly against very tough 
prior year comparatives. Together they 
have increased volume by 13% and value 
by 9%. Over recent years we have driven 
consistent growth in these combined 
brands and have outperformed the 
market. Our sales of these brands are 
nearly 50% higher than three years ago.
We have used a number of different 
methods of marketing our brands from 
‘traditional’ television advertisements 
to internet campaigns. The sustained 
increase in marketing investment has led 
to higher consumer awareness for all our 
brands and has helped us get our key 
messages across. For example more 
consumers now think that Cathedral City 
is one of the best cheeses money can 
buy (up 15% over the past two years), that 
Country Life is a superior tasting product 
(up 22%) and British (up 23%), that 
Clover is a good balance between health 
and taste (up 100%) and FRijj has cool 
packaging (up 33%).
 We are particularly pleased with the 
ongoing success of our French business, 
St Hubert, which has delivered ahead 
of expectations and has again made a 
significant contribution to the profitability of 
the Group. We have improved St Hubert’s 
performance under our ownership, sharing 
best practice with our UK businesses 
and driving purchasing synergies. It has a 
strong management team who are capable 
of generating further improvements.
 
2. Fresh milk to major retailers – we 
have maintained good year on year growth 
in milk sales to major retailers. These have 
grown by 9% in volume and 8% in value. 
Alongside a steady increase in conventional 
milk sales to these customers, sales of 
organic and flavoured milk have also grown 
strongly. During the year we have also made 
good progress in developing sales of milk 
in bags using our innovative patented jug, 
JUGIT. Sainsbury’s was the first retailer to 
launch national distribution of this product, 
which contains 75% less packaging than 
a standard 2 pint plastic milk bottle and 
we expect to gain listings with other major 
retailers. We have also trialled this concept 
successfully with our doorstep customers 
and expect to increase distribution of milk in 
bags through this channel during 2010/11.
WE CREATE
WE CONSTANTLY  
 LOOK FOR NEW 
AND BETTER WAYS  
OF DOING THINGS 3. milk&more – our doorstep delivery 
internet proposition, milk&more, continues 
to show strong momentum. We are 
delighted that we now have over 250,000 
registered customers, which is in line with 
the challenging target we set when we 
fully launched this service last September.  
The initial success of milk&more has 
already contributed to a lower decline in 
doorstep sales.
 
Cost reduction
Cost reduction remains a key part of 
our strategy. It has allowed us to grow 
underlying profits and increase investment 
across our business while at the same 
time maintain high levels of customer 
service. We continue to set ourselves 
challenging targets to reduce our costs 
and are confident further improvements 
remain possible.
 During 2009/10 we achieved cost 
reductions that in total will deliver 
annualised savings of approximately £20 
million. These range from appointing a 
new media-buying agency to redesigning 
our spreads tubs. We have also driven 
efficiencies in our dairies and distribution 
depots and continue to identify further 
opportunities. 
 
Strengthened financial position
As a result of the focus we have put on 
cash generation, our reported borrowings 
are the lowest they have been since 30 
September 2006.
 In addition we continue to reduce 
risk in order to stabilise and simplify the 
business.
 We have made significant progress 
in reducing the risks associated with our 
defined benefit pension scheme. This has 
now closed to future accrual.
 During 2009/10 we have processed 
significantly lower volumes of milk into 
commodity ingredients than we did 
in 2008/09 and are confident we can 
maintain this in the future. We are also in 
the process of reducing our stake in our 
Irish cheese business, Wexford Creamery 
Limited. The prospective purchaser, 
Wexford Milk Producers Limited, will be 
shortly seeking its members’ approval 
to the transaction. When completed, 
this transaction will largely complete our 
withdrawal from commodity cheddar.
 Finally, we have offered new longer 
term, fixed price contracts to some of our 
milk suppliers. Milk purchased under these 
contracts will be used to meet milk&more 
sales demand and will increase price 
stability between our suppliers and us.
 
Vision and Values
Although it is only fourteen years since we 
started life as a plc, we have a history that 
stretches as far back as the creation of 
the Milk Marketing Board in 1933. Today 
we buy milk directly from over 1,350 dairy 
farmers and have around 8,500 employees 
and franchised milkmen. We operate 
factories in rural areas where they play a 
significant role in the local economy. We 
aim to produce healthy and convenient 
products that are enjoyed by millions of 
consumers across Western Europe and 
they expect us to continue to innovate and 
develop our products and services, while at 
the same time caring for our environment.
 During the year we have completed 
the development of our corporate Vision 
and Values which recognises the needs 
of these different stakeholders in our 
business and sets out how we can do the 
best we can for them all – and as a result 
maximise returns for shareholders. I am 
really pleased with this. In particular we 
have linked our Vision and Values with key 
performance indicators which will allow us 
to monitor our progress.
 
Market environment
Retail markets in the UK and France 
remain dominated by concerns over 
consumers’ reaction to financial pressures 
caused by the global recession. We have 
reacted to this by promoting our brands 
more in order to provide value to our 
consumers. We expect this to continue 
during 2010/11.
 Dairy markets and UK milk prices have 
been relatively stable over the past year. 
Recently dairy commodity prices have 
started to increase and this may put upward 
pressure on milk prices in coming months.
 There are also signs that some other 
commodity costs are starting to increase. 
We continue to drive efficiencies to offset 
these and believe that our track record 
demonstrates that we can deal with this 
challenge.
 
Looking forward
This has been a year of progress for Dairy 
Crest in which we have strengthened 
the business for the future. Against this 
background we expect our key brands to 
continue to grow. As noted above, we have 
grown sales of these brands by nearly 50% 
over the past three years and consumers’ 
spontaneous awareness of these brands 
has increased significantly. We will maintain 
this momentum by continuing to invest in 
marketing and innovation. 
 The benefits from being a broadly 
based dairy business have been clearly 
demonstrated this year. We have taken 
the opportunity created by strong cash 
generation to initiate a £75 million capital 
investment programme in our dairies that 
will support our business with our key 
liquid milk customers. This expenditure 
will allow us to increase capacity, reduce 
costs and accelerate innovation. We 
expect to make this investment over the 
next three years and to achieve a minimum 
of a four-year payback on this investment. 
In addition, as we continue to improve all 
aspects of our Dairies Division, we would 
look to benefit by selling more milk to our 
key customers, who recognise that the 
cost, quality and service we provide is of 
the highest level.
 We are excited about the prospects of 
our doorstep delivery internet proposition, 
milk&more. Although we are breaking new 
ground here we have already achieved our 
first stretching target of 250,000 customers. 
We now want to grow the amount each 
customer buys from us and believe that we 
can do this. However it is difficult precisely 
to predict how milk&more will change our 
business. From what we know today it is 
possible that in the future milk&more could 
eliminate doorstep decline and eventually 
provide growth in total doorstep sales at 
acceptable margins.
 Supporting all these developments 
that will provide added value sales 
growth is an ongoing programme of cost 
reduction. In our Household business 
we have the opportunity to simplify and 
centralise our depot administration. This 
project is progressing well and will lead to 
substantial savings in our cost base.
 Additionally we continue to revisit 
our central overheads to reduce the 
administration costs for each litre of milk 
that we process.
 In 2010/11 we intend to continue to 
increase profits, generate cash and further 
reduce our borrowings. We anticipate that 
our borrowings at 31 March 2011 will be 
meaningfully lower than at 31 March 2010, 
despite planned higher capital expenditure 
and increased dividend payments.
 Trading at the start of the new year is 
in line with our expectations.
 Dairy Crest has changed from a 
predominantly commodity focused, UK 
based business to an added value dairy 
food company with a significant profit 
stream from continental Europe. We 
have shown that we can grow added 
value sales both organically and through 
acquisitions and we are well placed to do 
either or both. 
 We are fit for an exciting future.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
17 May 2010
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 15
Overview
