 daily mail and general trust plC  
annual report 2010
4
this Chief executive’s r eview will start by 
setting out the nature, objectives and 
strategy of the g roup. a business review 
of the development and performance 
of each of our operating divisions will 
follow on pages 17 to 28. a f inancial 
and treasury r eview is given on pages 
29 to 33 and the principal risks and 
uncertainties the g roup faces are  
set out on pages 38 and 39 of the  
directors’ r eport.
dmgt ’s philosophy
dmgt is a multi-media and information 
company providing essential news, 
entertainment and information services 
in both the business to business (b2b) and 
consumer sectors. We operate in many 
different markets, in many countries, 
each with its own competitive and 
regulatory requirements. 
it has been dmgt ’s philosophy for many 
years to take advantage of its 
shareholding structure and to invest 
with a long-term perspective to 
generate value. o ur particular 
ownership structure, with control 
maintained by the founding family, has 
proved itself throughout our long history 
to be a successful business model in the 
media and information industry. it is this 
ownership structure that affords us a 
longer-term perspective and that is at 
the heart of our philosophy. 
introdu Ction
this business r eview is addressed to the 
members of the Company. its purpose is 
to help them assess how the directors 
have performed in their duty to 
promote the success of the Company.  
it is framed by the principles and 
guidelines for o perating and f inancial 
r eviews published by the uK 
accounting standards board in 2006.  
it outlines the main operational and 
financial factors underpinning the 
development, performance and 
position of the g roup as well as those 
likely to affect performance over the 
coming year, illustrating this with key 
performance indicators.
Chief exeCutive’s revieW
martin morgan 
Chief executive
Our strategy for future success lies in 
three key areas
1. Growing our Business to  
Business divisions
2. Supporting our newspapers and  
investing in digital consumer media
3.  Turning DMGT into a global 
growth company
* adjusted operating profit (before exceptional 
items and amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets).
† underlying revenue or profit* is revenue or profit* 
on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions 
and disposals made in the current and prior year 
and at constant exchange rates.  Chairman’s statement 
 business revieW 
 Corporate responsibility 
 direCtors’ report 
 Corporate governanCe 
 remuneration report 
 finanCial statements 
 shareholder information 
5
We are committed to remaining 
diversified across both the b2b and 
consumer media sectors in order to give 
us a breadth of opportunities and to 
spread risk. o ur b2b arm is made up of 
r isk management solutions (rms ), dmg 
information (dmgi), dmg events (which 
changed its name from dmg world 
media in april) and euromoney 
institutional investor. o ur consumer 
media division, a&n media comprises 
mail n ewspapers, our digital only 
businesses (formerly associated 
n orthcliffe digital), our free newspaper 
division, principally metro, and 
n orthcliffe media. We also own 50%  
of dmg r adio australia, a 50:50 joint 
venture with illyria, an australian 
company that is the private investment 
vehicle of mr l achlan murdoch, which 
was established in december 2009. 
strategy
the overarching strategy for the g roup 
is to remain the owner of high quality, 
sustainable, market-leading media  
and information assets across both  
the b2b and consumer sectors and to 
improve dmgt ’s overall share rating. 
o ur intention is for dmgt to become  
a truly global growth company with 
sustainable earnings and dividend 
growth with an increasing exposure to 
growth economies and international 
opportunities. the three pillars of my 
leadership continue to be growth, 
adaptability and innovation. 
o ur strategy is underpinned by five 
guiding tasks.
the first is to enhance focus by 
concentrating our management and 
investment on a subset of businesses 
where we see the closest alignment 
between opportunities and growth, 
and which fit with our investment 
criteria. o n this task, we have made 
considerable progress. secondly, we 
have been strengthening our balance 
sheet in order to maintain financial 
flexibility so that we are able to take 
advantage of opportunities as they 
arise. the third key priority remains 
reducing pension liabilities. the fourth is 
applying consistent investment criteria. 
this requires being highly disciplined 
both in regularly assessing our current 
businesses and in the way we assess all 
future investments, resulting in a clear 
capital allocation process. there must 
also be a preparedness to sell as well as 
buy on a timely basis. 
f inally we are building on dmgt ’s 
distinct values and management 
philosophy. We remain committed to a 
decentralised operating structure with 
a small central team in order to nurture 
innovation and an entrepreneurial mind 
set. We have been raising the bar on 
talent by being committed to attracting 
and retaining the best people in order 
to optimise our management 
philosophy and to meet our global 
growth ambitions. if anything it has 
become even clearer over the last year 
just how critical our work on talent is, in 
order to have the entrepreneurially 
minded people who can drive the 
revenue line and our strategic 
ambitions.
in summary we have pursued our 
strategy with vigour over the last  
twelve months. 
We have established a new investment 
and f inance Committee alongside a 
newly formed dmgt l eadership team, 
which together will improve investment 
decision making and g roup strategy 
development, at the higher operating 
tempo we have been setting and 
which, i firmly believe, is so crucial to our 
success. the l eadership team 
comprises all the divisional company 
leaders, together with the dmgt 
executive. its remit is to focus on 
developing dmgt g roup-wide longer- 
term strategy, on furthering cross g roup 
co-operation when and where this 
makes sense, and to guide policy on 
matters which are cross divisional in 
nature, for example g roup leadership 
courses, communications and aspects 
of technical capability. it does not 
replace the decision making and 
accountability structures in place 
through our decentralised operating 
structure.
the new Committee comprises the 
dmgt executive and two non-
executives. it acts independently on 
investment decisions and capital 
allocation from the divisions, although it 
will invite attendance and contributions 
from time to time by divisional Ceos as 
well as from outside experts. 
We recognise that our future is largely 
digital, whether it be in the consumer or 
the b2b markets, and we are uniquely 
placed to take key learnings and 
experience from one to inform the 
other. accordingly, we have 
encouraged the sharing of more 
information regarding technology 
developments across the g roup, 
particularly regarding new product 
development and entering new 
markets. We have retained the services 
of a technology expert to advise us at 
g roup level.
o ur plan is to continue to run the 
Company on a conservative basis over 
the next few years because tough 
economic conditions may prevail in the 
uK for some time yet and the course of 
the us economy remains uncertain. We 
are giving priority to investing in the 
considerable organic growth potential 
of our existing portfolio of businesses, 
supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions 
offset by a few minor disposals. We are 
taking steps to limit the growth in our 
pension scheme liabilities and to 
reduce the schemes’ volatility.
progress in year
i am proud to report that we have 
delivered on what we promised two 
years ago. We achieved our targeted 
£150 million in profit enhancements, 
enabling us to preserve our investment 
in innovation and organic growth. We 
re-focused the portfolio with a wide 
range of disposals, closures, and 
re-organisations. o ur results are a 
testament to our success in meeting 
these short-term objectives. daily mail and general trust plC  
annual report 2010
6
two years ago, i recognised the need to 
focus on a narrower range of activities in 
order to concentrate human resources 
and financial capital where the most 
potential for long term growth and value 
creation existed. i stated that we would 
remain active managers of our portfolio 
of businesses and apply our investment 
criteria vigorously in determining where 
to allocate capital but at the same time 
maintaining our long term perspective 
and rate of internal investment to drive 
organic growth. 
the investment criteria that i identified 
were to focus on having businesses 
which operate in attractive growth 
markets. such businesses should have 
products or services that are highly 
innovative and highly valued, ones 
which customers repeat buy. We have 
a strong bias towards market leaders. 
businesses with these characteristics will 
not only grow but be high margin, cash 
generative and produce a high return 
on capital. We are also focused on 
capturing and retaining entrepreneurial 
management and we give preference 
to businesses which can benefit from 
dmgt ’s long term perspective. 
We have fully adopted these investment 
criteria both in new investments and in 
the management of currently owned 
businesses. in keeping with this 
approach, we have re-focused the 
portfolio with a further wide range of 
disposals, closures and reorganisations.
at a&n media, we closed l ondon l ite in 
the l ondon evening newspaper market 
in n ovember 2009 following on from the 
sale of 75% of the evening standard and 
its subsequent move to a free revenue 
model, and closed teletext’s television 
operations in december 2009. We sold 
allegran, our online dating business, 
dmr , our digital data and auto 
business, l oot and our slovakian 
newspapers. We have re-engineered 
n orthcliffe uK, including the closure of a 
further print plant at plymouth. We 
merged metro dublin with herald am. 
We restructured dmg world media, 
eliminating its corporate centre and 
renaming the smaller and leaner 
business, dmg events, and we sold 50% 
of dmg r adio to illyria.
impressive. headcount is down almost 
50% from its peak levels in 2004. 
n orthcliffe’s operating structure has 
been reorganised into new publishing 
centres, focused on their core 
competencies of news gathering and 
local advertising sales; and centres of 
excellence established for common 
business functions, including sub-
editing, advertising production, 
information technology, finance, 
printing and digital publishing; and 
regional contact centres, which 
improve the overall customer 
experience, for recruitment and private 
advertising, as well as the home 
delivered sale of our newspapers.  
this much lower cost operating  
model means that n orthcliffe is more 
operationally geared today and so  
will see substantial benefits when the 
economy recovers. We are 
implementing plans for additional  
cost and efficiency gains. 
there has been much talk within the 
media of potential consolidation within 
the regional newspaper industry. Whilst 
we can see benefits, we will not put 
further capital into the industry because 
of the more certain potential of our other 
opportunities for investment. We are, 
however, committed to the ongoing 
transformation of n orthcliffe because 
we believe there will always be a 
demand for local news and information. 
to this end we have launched l ocal 
people, a digital service aimed at 
smaller communities than are often 
covered by local print media. 
the recovery of the profits* of our uK 
national consumer media activities 
means that the percentage of the 
g roup’s operating profits* derived from 
b2b fell this year, as expected, from  
71% to 66%. a significant part of our 
operations are now outside the uK with 
more than half of the g roup’s operating 
profits* again derived from outside the 
uK, which also has the effect of 
reducing the g roup’s exposure to 
media regulation. 
With a more focused portfolio, 
improved margins and a somewhat 
better trading environment, operating 
profit* rose by 17% to £320 million and 
debt has fallen. o perating margin* rose 
from 13% to 16%. We have beaten our 
initial debt: ebitda target of 2.5 times 
and have virtually no bank debt. 
moreover, since we made every effort 
not to lose sight of our long-term 
strategic objectives and maintained 
organic growth investment during this 
difficult period, we should not need to 
increase our rate of investment in  
new products and services during  
the recovery. 
dmgt has always been a first mover in 
the media and information industry. o ur 
results demonstrate once again that 
the success of the decision made many 
years ago by the Chairman’s father to 
diversify our portfolio and move away 
from a dependence on uK newspapers 
has been a remarkable success. today 
our national newspapers are 
strengthening further their market 
leading positions, complemented by 
growth in our newer consumer digital 
business and our strong portfolio of b2b 
sector companies. 
a&n media has made huge progress in 
bringing focus to its activities and in 
advancing impressively in print as well 
as in digital consumer media. mail 
n ewspapers stands apart from other 
newspaper businesses in the uK and is 
now in a different league in newspaper 
digital activities through mail o nline, 
which is a core engine for growth.  
the daily mail and the mail on sunday 
improved their market shares towards 
the end of the year to record levels, a 
testament to our strategy of investing in 
editorial content and in marketing  
and promotion. 
at n orthcliffe media, which still faces 
difficult market conditions, our strategy 
has been to create a lower cost, high 
quality publishing business with 
improved levels of service for readers 
and advertisers, coupled with 
investment in digital media. this has 
been achieved by harnessing 
technology, leveraging the scale of the 
n orthcliffe portfolio and working more 
collaboratively with the rest of a&n 
media. the results have been 
Chief exeCutive’s revieW Continued  Chairman’s statement 
 business revieW 
 Corporate responsibility 
 direCtors’ report 
 Corporate governanCe 
 remuneration report 
 finanCial statements 
 shareholder information 
7
rms continues to develop products and 
services to fulfil demand for catastrophe 
models, expand along the “decision 
sciences” value chain, and devise 
solutions in adjacent insurance market 
segments, such as in life and health. this 
year, it delivered for the first time a 
state-of-the-art high performance 
computing solution, rms e nterprise g rid 
Computing, as explained on page 17. 
dmg information
dmgi achieved another record 
operating profit*, up 14%, maintaining its 
impressive history of profits* growth, 
illustrated on page 20. r evenues 
increased by 1%, with strong growth 
from its companies in the education, 
financial and energy information 
markets. margins rose from 20% to 23%.
dmgi’s strategy remains focused on 
investing in those companies within the 
existing portfolio which operate in an 
attractive sector and have the 
combination of attractive business 
models, strong market positions, growth 
potential and good management. its 
ambition to invest in must-have, 
high-growth, innovative business 
information companies remains 
unchanged, as does its remit to diversify 
dmgt by sector, by business model and 
by geography. 
Within property, l andmark information 
g roup and edr are developing their 
strategy to expand their offering from 
“environmental” to “green”. l andmark 
have developed a more ambitious 
growth strategy, which includes further 
expansion in serving the financial 
aspects of the property market and 
more on physical data on property, 
together with an increased expansion 
in g ermany. Co-operation between 
l andmark and a&n media’s digital 
property g roup has deepened.
Within finance, trepp is pursuing its 
strategy to enter the broader 
commercial real estate market. Within 
energy, g enscape is accelerating its 
organic growth across new energy 
classes, such as gas and oil, and has 
made progress in strengthening its 
management team. Within education, 
hobsons continues to grow in providing 
digital information and services to high 
schools and universities. 
we have continued to nurture 
operational autonomy with strong 
incentives based on performance, 
whilst retaining central control over 
surplus capital and its reinvestment. 
maintaining this approach is of upmost 
importance to me. the benefits are 
numerous and enabled us to respond 
rapidly to the economic downturn. at 
dmgt we realise that if you want to 
survive in this sector, you must be able to 
react quickly and efficiently to the 
rapidly changing media world. if 
management teams are able to 
exercise relative autonomy, they are 
able to keep decision making as close 
to their customer as possible. r eal 
innovation comes from having a 
customer focus and our decentralised 
model provides a fertile environment for 
innovative people and, in turn, a positive 
breeding ground for innovative ideas. 
business to business summary
i am pleased to report that our b2b 
operations achieved good profit* 
growth in the year, driven by solid 
subscription revenues and tight cost 
control, with no benefit from foreign 
exchange as the average sterling: us 
dollar exchange rate was unchanged. 
they reported combined revenues of 
£824 million, down 4% due to the effect 
of prior year disposals within dmg 
events, but an improved operating 
margin up from 24% to 27% on an 
operating profit of £226 million. 
r isK management solutions
rms achieved another record 
operating profit*, up 12% on revenues 
also up 12%, reflecting continued 
growth from both its core modelling 
business and newer initiatives. margins 
remained at 31%, a very acceptable 
level, given the need to invest in the 
business to maintain existing 
subscriptions and in order to drive  
future growth. 
We have continued to focus on business 
fundamentals and organic growth and 
on nurturing our existing businesses, 
rather than on making large scale 
acquisitions. We have been willing to 
make a small number of highly 
attractive bolt-on acquisitions and 
investments with low risk and high 
returns which strengthen the 
competitive position of our businesses. 
these were within dmg information and 
a&n media: builder r adius, which has 
built a proprietary database of building 
permit information from cities and 
counties across the us for edr , Calnea 
analytics, which supplies automated 
valuations for residential properties, and 
argyll environmental, providers of 
environmental risk reports, for 
l andmark; f oresight analytics, which 
provides real estate analysis for 
commercial and residential real estate, 
for trepp; and 50% of g lobrix, a uK free 
to list property portal for the digital 
property g roup; and as previously 
mentioned, l ocal people which we 
launched in the summer of 2009. 
euromoney also acquired arete 
Consulting, a small but high quality 
online publishing business, with its 
proprietary database containing 
information on more than 1.3 million 
structured products around the world.
Whilst we have been focused necessarily 
on reducing our debt over the short 
term, our capital constraints have not 
caused us to miss any significant 
acquisition opportunities. We are now in 
a better position to make acquisitions 
again, but will continue our policy to 
prioritise a programme of selective 
smaller scale deals which we can 
develop and which can benefit from 
our longer-term perspective. We will 
continue to divest on a periodic basis 
and our track record over recent years 
is good on this count.
dmgt o perational model
dmgt ’s approach to managing the 
g roup’s companies has not changed: 
we continue to adopt a decentralised 
structure. We take a considerable 
amount of comfort in the fact that we 
know all our companies are run by chief 
executives with expert knowledge of 
their companies and the markets in 
which they operate. o ver the last year,  daily mail and general trust plC  
annual report 2010
8
reach to our chosen audiences over  
a multitude of platforms, it has had  
a significant deflationary effect on 
advertising yields and newspaper  
copy sales. the environment forces  
us to remain even more focused and 
orientated around the needs of our 
customers and on the strength of  
our brands.
a&n media has made significant 
progress in bringing focus to its 
activities, and is advancing impressively 
in print and in digital consumer media. 
We continue to focus on building 
around the mail brand and formulating 
the next stage of our strategy for the 
consumer digital market.
the mail titles, despite operating in a 
sector in long term decline, are and will 
be a core business for many years to 
come and will continue to offer real 
growth opportunities, for example 
because of the excellent progress of its 
online offering, mail o nline, which has 
significant growth opportunities ahead 
of it.
asso Ciated neWspapers
the mail publications continue to 
capture market share from competitors. 
Content has been at the heart of our 
success at associated and we continue 
to invest in editorial quality. the graph 
on page 26 shows that our actions are 
proving successful with circulation on 
the daily mail stabilising in recent 
months and market share rising once 
again for both mail titles. the increased 
gap in cover price compared to the so 
called “quality” newspapers, combined 
with the pressures from rising newsprint 
prices on those with lower cover prices, 
may provide us with an option to raise 
cover prices, once consumer 
confidence recovers.
o ur national free morning newspaper, 
metro, grew rapidly this year and 
traded strongly. r eleased from 
competing in the free l ondon 
afternoon market, management has 
been able to turn its entire focus on 
metro and has delivered an increase in 
euromoney has outperformed all 
expectations, allowing management to 
shift its focus to positioning the business 
for growth, both from existing products 
as markets recover, and from 
investment in technology and new 
products as part of the migration to a 
digital information business. 
euromoney’s performance and its shift 
into more subscription and digital 
activity means that the board regards it 
as core to dmgt ’s own strategic global 
growth ambitions. 
euromoney’s separate listing on the 
l ondon stock exchange has enabled  
it to introduce its capital appreciation 
plans which have motivated 
management to grow the company 
significantly over recent years. We 
remain a supportive shareholder, fully 
backing its management’s expansion 
strategy. dmgt again took its share of 
dividends from euromoney in the year  
in the form of a scrip. this enabled us to 
offset the dilutive effect of the vesting  
of the final tranche of euromoney’s first 
capital appreciation plan, thereby 
maintaining our equity interest at 
around 66%. it is the board’s intention 
also to take euromoney’s forthcoming 
final dividend in the form of a scrip in 
order to avoid dilution caused by its 
management incentive plans. 
to sum up, within b2b overall there 
remains a concerted continuing focus 
on organic growth supplemented by 
bolt-on acquisitions and aimed at 
strengthening the quality of the 
portfolio over time. 
Consumer 
higher national advertising revenues, 
together with a focus on cost control, 
enabled a&n media to increase its 
operating profits by 46%. this was in 
spite of a reduction of 5% in reported 
revenues, reflecting portfolio changes 
and high standards of execution. 
margins* rose from 7% to 11%.
the consumer media industry is 
continuing to witness a time of 
unprecedented change. Whilst 
technology is undoubtedly an  
enabler, allowing us to extend our 
dmg events (formerly dmg 
World media) 
dmg events’ operating profits fell by just 
£7 million, despite a reduction in 
revenues of £64 million due to the 
impact of prior year disposals. although 
the underlying
†
 revenues of dmg events 
were down by 9%, the most significant 
declines were experienced early in the 
year and more recent events have 
been in line with or ahead of prior year 
revenues. margins rose from 21% to 27%.
the refinement of our portfolio of 
exhibitions was concluded earlier in the 
year. the business has been 
transformed from more than 300 b2C 
and b2b exhibitions, fairs, conferences 
and magazines to 36 b2b exhibitions 
and two conference businesses, all with 
number one or two positions in their 
market places. the group, renamed 
dmg:: events, has been restructured 
into five operating groups and 
management layers removed.  
g rowth will be driven by geo-cloning, 
expanding into adjacencies and 
selected early stage exhibition 
acquisitions. n ew management  
have begun to launch new shows  
once again.
e uromoney institutional investor
euromoney achieved a record 
operating profit*, up 25%, maintaining 
its recent history of profits* growth, 
illustrated on page 23. the rebound in 
its revenues came faster than expected 
and it has benefited from early and 
aggressive action at the onset of the 
downturn in its markets.
the benefits of euromoney’s strategy to 
build a more resilient and better 
focused business by increasing the 
proportion of revenues derived from 
subscription products, now nearly a half 
of total revenues, and transforming a 
predominantly publishing driven 
business to one with significant activities 
in electronic information and database 
services, were again demonstrated by 
these results. 
Chief exeCutive’s revieW Continued  Chairman’s statement 
 business revieW 
 Corporate responsibility 
 direCtors’ report 
 Corporate governanCe 
 remuneration report 
 finanCial statements 
 shareholder information 
9
north Cliffe media
o ur expectation in may, because of 
gradually improving uK advertising 
trends, that n orthcliffe uK would move 
into year on year growth during the 
second half of the year, proved 
over-optimistic. We now expect 
n orthcliffe to have another hard year in 
prospect and to continue to suffer from 
the effects of reduced public sector 
advertising spend. until recruitment 
advertising recovers, it is difficult to see 
growth and there is new uncertainty 
over the property market. n orthcliffe is, 
however, outperforming its rivals, which 
is testament to the way its management 
is transforming the company’s 
operations.
the commercial relationship between 
n orthcliffe and our pure play digital 
businesses, in recruitment, property and 
motors, continue to be strategically 
important to the company. 
dmg radio australia
We disposed of 50% of dmg r adio 
australia. the new joint venture has 
started well with a rise in operating 
profits* year on year. 
summary 
during 2010 we delivered on our 
promises and have demonstrated the 
benefits of our diversified international 
portfolio of market-leading businesses 
with revenue beginning to rise, higher 
operating margins* and our debt falling 
rapidly. i feel confident the g roup is well 
placed to benefit from improvements in 
our markets and from our ongoing 
commitment to internal investment in 
organic growth.
r egaining investment grade 
credit status is an objective as we 
contemplate being able safely to 
expand our balance sheet as we 
move closer to our remaining bond 
repayment in 2013. Containing and 
eventually eliminating significant 
liability risk and volatility from our 
pension schemes remains a  
high priority.
g ood progress has been made in our 
efforts to monetise the reach of our titles 
through database marketing. the 
revenue achieved by the growth of 
a&n media enterprises demonstrates 
the mail’s ability to diversify revenue 
streams by leveraging its strong brands 
and developing new products and 
services to meet the needs of its 
targeted audiences, for instance 
through the mail’s multi-channel retail 
brand, maill ife.co.uk. 
digital only businesses  
(formerly and )
We reassessed our portfolio of 
businesses and reorganised to 
concentrate on those companies seen 
as having worthwhile long-term 
prospects. as a result a number of 
businesses were sold and divisional 
operating costs substantially reduced. 
We are now focused on the verticals of 
jobs, property, motors and travel. the 
digital property g roup was 
strengthened with the acquisition of 
50% of g lobrix. the second half saw a 
pleasing upward trend in revenues at 
Jobsite and the digital property g roup.
a&n international media
n orthcliffe’s Central and eastern 
european operations now report 
directly to a&n media’s Ceo, Kevin 
beatty, allowing n orthcliffe’s uK 
leadership to concentrate on the 
challenges faced in the domestic 
marketplace. We will in future report 
a&n i nternational media within 
associated.
its underlying
†
 revenues were down by 
9% after disposals, mainly from its print 
business in slovakia which was sold 
during the year and from its regional 
newspapers in hungary. the 
performance of our portfolio of digital 
businesses, primarily in Jobs and 
property markets, has improved 
significantly and unique visitor 
engagement with all of our digital 
businesses continues to grow.
display advertising of more than 20%. 
f or the first time, it has developed a 
presence in the retail advertising market 
and launched successful mobile 
applications. a new seven and a half 
year contract with the l ondon 
underground was secured on fair terms 
for both parties. o ur competitors to the 
irish metro are now our partners in 
metro herald. 
mail digital made significant progress 
this year, recording a 33% improvement 
in revenue. traffic to its primary website, 
mail o nline, increased by more than 
70% to 50 million unique users in 
o ctober 2010. l aunched in its current 
form only in may 2008, it is already now 
the largest uK newspaper website. it is 
differentiated from the print newspaper 
by a particular focus on celebrity, 
gossip and colour features which 
appeal to a younger demographic of 
mid britons, the majority of whom do 
not buy a mail newspaper. iphone and 
ipod touch versions have recently been 
launched to be followed by an ipad 
version within months. We therefore see 
digital publishing as a growth 
opportunity, and a means of extending 
the mail brand. o ne example is a large 
and growing non-uK audience, 
especially in the usa . an ambitious 
expansion strategy targeting the us is 
underway. in may, we opened an office 
is l os angeles, to be followed by a n ew 
york office, in order to increase us 
content, users and thereby to drive us 
advertising sales.
there has been much media debate 
about whether online newspaper sites 
should erect paywalls. o ur position with 
respect to mail o nline is that few 
consumers will pay for general news 
content which they can access free 
from elsewhere, such as from the bb C, 
and our strategy is to build large 
audiences. they will pay, however, for 
more specialised information and for 
special applications such as on the 
ipad. this is still very much an emerging 
area and our approach is to provide 
compelling content and to remain 
flexible on distribution channels  
and pricing.  daily mail and general trust plC  
annual report 2010
10
by the year end, we had virtually no 
bank debt and £300 million of unused 
bank facilities. We have no refinancing 
to contemplate until 2013. having 
beaten our initial debt: ebitda target of 
2.5 times by achieving a ratio of 2.3 
times, we will continue to manage the 
ratio down through strong cash flow 
generation, in order to create more 
capacity to satisfy attractive acquisition 
and investment opportunities. 
Whilst we can run the g roup without 
having to raise new finance, we will 
want to do so in order to sustain the 
g roup’s long term growth ambitions. 
therefore regaining investment grade 
status remains a key objective.
r esour Ces 
the g roup’s main resources are its 
brands, reputation, the market-leading 
position of its major businesses and 
above all its people. it is my strong 
belief that it is the obligation of a Chief 
executive to leave a company in a 
better shape than he found it in and i 
realise that the skills required of leaders 
in our industry ten years ago are not the 
same today. We cannot capitalise on 
the future unless we invest in the talent 
of today, in the leaders of tomorrow.  
We understand that superior business 
performance starts with superior 
people, and it is my overriding priority 
to ensure that we continue to attract 
and promote the very best talent and 
reward talent suitably in line with 
shareholders’ interests.
o ur commitment to raising the bar on 
talent is continuing and increasingly 
effective, applying human capital 
where growth prospects are best – if 
you like, to where the money is. three 
dmgt -wide executive training courses 
have been held and talent reviews are 
now taking root in every business under 
the direction of our human r esources 
director, Joe mcCollum.
the market appears gradually to be 
absorbing the quality of our diversified 
portfolio of assets. this, together with 
the operationally geared nature of  
our national advertising revenues in 
particular, led to us out-performing  
our peers again this year. 
as a consequence of a decision by ftse 
in may, in response to the f inancial 
services authority’s policy n otice in 
f ebruary, to adopt listing classifications 
for determining the weighting of share 
classes in their indices, dmgt ’s 
weighting in the uK index series will fall 
from 75% to 0% when our ‘a’ shares are 
re-designated by the fsa as having a 
standard listing on 31st may, 2012. dmgt 
will remain a premium listed company, 
following this change, by virtue of its 
o rdinary shares. pure index funds tend 
to hold only around 5% of our ‘a’ shares.
Capital stru Cture
the Company has not made a capital 
call on its shareholders since 1933. 
Capital growth is funded by long-term 
debt and by retained earnings. since 
the late 1980s, our strategy has been to 
seek to raise the dividend in real terms 
and since 2002, the board’s policy has 
been to target a real rate of growth in 
the dividend in the region of 5% to 7% 
on the basis of the directors’ 
confidence in the g roup’s long-term 
financial health. 
having held the dividend during the 
financial crisis, whilst maintaining its 
policy of seeking to increase the 
dividend in real terms over the 
economic cycle, the board has 
declared a final dividend up 11%, 
making an increase of 9% for the year. 
as shown on page 11, the compound 
dividend growth over the last 22 years is 
10% in nominal terms, which is an 
increase of 7% in real terms. 
the Company acquired 2.9 million of  
its ‘a’ o rdinary shares for £12 million, 
using them to provide shares under 
various incentive plans. the Company 
currently holds 9.6 million shares in 
treasury to meet obligations that may 
arise to provide shares under various 
incentive plans.
because of continuing economic 
uncertainties, we will remain disciplined 
about our approach to costs and 
acquisitions. at the same time we will 
work on building a pipeline of potential 
new innovative products, and in 
growing a target list of attractive target 
bolt-on acquisitions.
at our first investor day in march 2009, i 
stated that our aim for dmgt was to be 
a modern company of tomorrow, not a 
legacy company of the past. We have 
a much sounder platform today than 
we did then on which to execute this 
objective, due to the management 
actions taken right across the g roup, 
and from some recovery in a number of 
key markets. therefore our strategy 
remains unchanged.
Whilst we believe print is far from dead, 
our growth lies in digital media in both 
consumer and in b2b, and we are 
increasingly focused on doing what is 
needed to excel in the digital world.
We envisage dmgt becoming a global 
growth company. We plan to be 
nimble, bold and decisive in order to 
realise this vision. o ur objective is to 
ensure profitable sustainable growth 
over the long term.
share pri Ce performan Ce
o ur share performance remains 
important to us as an indicator as to 
whether our strategy is understood and 
appreciated by institutional investors.
the price of our widely traded ‘a’ 
o rdinary n on-voting shares has 
been less volatile this year, aided by 
stock lending of the shares trending 
downwards below 15% of the free float. 
the share price started the financial 
year at £4.39, falling to £3.90 at the end 
of o ctober, before rising to a high of 
£5.33 at the end of april, a movement 
of 36%. the shares fell back in early 
summer, along with the wider market 
in the light of the prevailing economic 
uncertainty, before closing the year  
at £5.26.
Chief exeCutive’s revieW Continued  Chairman’s statement 
 business revieW 
 Corporate responsibility 
 direCtors’ report 
 Corporate governanCe 
 remuneration report 
 finanCial statements 
 shareholder information 
11
and influences our outlook on the 
environment, our employees and  
on local community issues where  
we operate. 
as one significant example of how our 
Cr agenda can have a beneficial 
impact, l andmark developed Carbon 
Counter, an online service to prepare 
businesses for the governmental Cr C 
energy efficiency scheme. f urthermore, 
i am proud to report that dmgt has 
qualified for this climate change and 
energy saving programme, one central 
to the uK’s strategy for reducing carbon 
dioxide (Co
2
) emissions. this is just one 
example of how dmgt companies are 
combining innovation and their 
business knowledge to drive their 
commitment to corporate responsibility. 
it is an attitude which will permeate the 
g roup at large over the next few years.
f or more detailed information on our 
Cr activities, please see the C r r eport 
on pages 34 to 36 which makes 
reference to the policies the board has 
adopted in this area.
dmgt and the environment
We recognise that our businesses have 
an impact on the environment, be that 
through our printing operations, offices, 
transport or other activities. We are truly 
committed to ensuring that, where 
possible, our impact on the 
environment is minimised. 
the greatest impact we make arises 
from our printing operations. here, i 
am pleased to say that we have been 
diligent in measuring and reducing 
waste in our usage of materials, and, 
through our analysis of our carbon 
footprint, monitoring and improving  
our efficiency in the use of energy. 
We started to measure our footprint in 
2006 and the graph shown to the left 
illustrates that the g roup’s emissions 
have fallen steadily since then. 
this year both harmsworth Quays, our 
largest printing plant, and n orthcliffe 
house, the Company’s headquarters 
and the l ondon base of associated 
n ewspapers, n orthcliffe media and 
Communi Cations
We continue our commitment to raising 
the profile of dmgt and 
communicating the quality, 
performance and prospects of the 
g roup, both internally and externally. 
We have increased the regularity and 
consistency of our communications. in 
april 2010 we ran our second investor 
day which was positively received. We 
are planning a further investor day to 
be held in l ondon on 28th march, 2011.
r elationships With sta Keholders, 
other than shareholders
across the g roup we take our corporate 
responsibility (Cr ) seriously. this vision 
permeates our approach to everything 
We made several further key 
appointments in order to populate the 
g roup with new superior talent, coming 
from within and from outside the g roup. 
at g roup level, as the Chairman has 
said in his statement, we have hired 
stephen daintith, from dow Jones, who 
joins us in January to succeed peter 
Williams as f inance director. We have 
also hired bill r aduchel as technology 
advisor. We appointed James Welsh, 
who joined us from dixons r etail, as 
finance director of a&n media in 
f ebruary and who has carried out an 
extensive restructuring of its finance 
team. at dmg events, g eoff dickinson 
joined us to run its middle east 
o perations. dmgt will always invest in 
its people in order to grow. 
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10
DMGT dividend history for the period 1988 – 2010 (pence)
 
dmgt dividend  
 
inflation indicator 1988 - 2010
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10
Performance of DMGT ‘A’ and FTSE All-Share index  
relative to values at 30th September, 1988
 
dmgt a  
 
ft a ll-share index
06
07
08
09
10
0 20 10 30 40 50 60
CO 2 efficiency (Emissions per revenue – tCO 2/£m revenue) daily mail and general trust plC  
annual report 2010
12
as regards the g roup’s principal 
commodity, newsprint, arrangements 
are made annually with a range of 
suppliers to ensure the security of supply 
at the best available prices, having 
regard to the need for the necessary 
quality. particularly in the light of its 
strategy to create a diversified 
international portfolio of media 
businesses, the g roup is not dependent 
on any suppliers of other commodities, 
nor for its revenue on any particular 
customer. distribution arrangements 
are in place to ensure the delivery of 
newspapers to retail outlets.
trends and fa Ctors li Kely to 
affe Ct the outloo K
We have entered our new financial year 
in good heart as our businesses are 
performing well. many markets remain 
tough, however, and there is continuing 
economic uncertainty in the medium 
term, including in the uK where the 
impact of the g overnment’s austerity 
measures has yet to be fully felt. 
moreover, whilst we do not anticipate  
a ‘double dip’, external risks, such  
as the sovereign debt crisis, have not  
gone away.
rms has started the year well with a 
number of contracts booked and a 
solid sales pipeline. it is expecting to 
achieve low double digit growth again 
this year. 
at dmgi, we expect the combination of 
continuing investment in core growth 
initiatives, combined with improving 
market conditions, to drive a modest 
acceleration in revenue and profits* 
growth.
at dmg events, recent attendance and 
bookings trends have been moderately 
encouraging and we anticipate these 
continuing to improve in 2011. the 
forthcoming year will benefit from  
two of our three major biennial shows  
taking place.
g iven the size of the Company’s 
pension commitments compared to the 
size of the g roup, this cost needs to be 
controlled to ensure the financial health 
of the Company and of these pension 
plans. accordingly, the board decided 
to close its defined benefit (final salary) 
plans to new employees from the start 
of the financial year, whilst keeping 
them open for current employees. the 
Company has also announced plans to 
introduce a series of measures during 
the 2010/11 financial year designed to 
help secure the financial health of these 
plans into the future. 
 all new employees of a&n media are 
now offered a defined contribution 
pension plan, which is consistent with 
our other newer and more 
internationally focused companies 
where we have long believed this type 
of pension plan to be more appropriate. 
so Cial and Community issues
Community involvement is integral to 
the way we run our company, as is its 
importance to the personal motivation 
of our employees. We donate money, 
time and in-kind donations such as 
radio airtime and advertising space, 
and staff participate in a huge range of 
activities, including fundraising, 
organising events and acting as trustees 
to charitable initiatives. 
information about persons  
With Whom the Company has
Contra Ctual or other 
arrangements essential to  
the Company’s business 
g roup companies undertake business 
with a range of customers and 
suppliers. there is no dependence on 
any particular contractual 
arrangement, other than those 
disclosed in n ote 38 to the accounts as 
regards ink and printing, where 
arrangements are in place until 2015 
and 2022 respectively to obtain 
competitive prices and to secure 
supplies. 
dmg events, achieved the key 
international environmental standard 
iso 14001. With these facilities now 
recognised as meeting world class 
standards of environmental 
management, our focus has moved to 
facilities in other parts of our business.
dmgt and our employees 
the number of employees rose by 338 
from 14,254 at the beginning of the year 
(excluding dmg r adio australia) to 
14,592 at the year end, an increase of 
2%, due to an increase within rms ’s 
india operations. excluding the india 
increase and with a continued focus on 
cost reduction, the number of 
employees fell by 736 in the year. Within 
this number there was a fall within 
n orthcliffe uK and a&n media’s uK 
printing operations of nearly 400 (10%), 
including the job losses from the closure 
of our printing plant in plymouth.
a variety of approaches to staff 
communications exist within the g roup, 
as explained in our Cr report. i n march, 
we communicated the introduction of 
a share incentive plan, dmgt s hare 
purchase+, which is available to all 
eligible uK staff to give them the 
opportunity to own the Company’s 
shares, so that they can benefit if we 
are successful in meeting our financial 
objectives. this followed approval by 
shareholders at our agm in f ebruary.
the Company attaches great 
importance to a clear understanding of 
personal financial issues by its 
employees, a view which prompted the 
development by dmgt p ensions of an 
online workplace financial information 
website (www.timeformoney.co.uk), 
which was launched in the uK in august.
dmgt has been operating defined 
benefit pension schemes, primarily in its 
newspaper businesses, for a long time 
and has a reputation for the quality of 
pension provision. however, the cost of 
providing this benefit continues to rise 
as people are expected to live longer 
and, more recently, as turmoil in 
financial markets has reduced 
expected investment returns. 
Chief exeCutive’s revieW Continued  Chairman’s statement 
 business revieW 
 Corporate responsibility 
 direCtors’ report 
 Corporate governanCe 
 remuneration report 
 finanCial statements 
 shareholder information 
13
n orthcliffe also is focused on revenue 
opportunities as it builds on its digital 
strengths and sales capability. 
f or the g roup as a whole, we will build 
on our achievements over the last two 
years by maintaining firm control of 
costs and seizing on the growth 
opportunities we see. o ur focus will 
remain on cash generation and debt 
reduction, as we seek to recover our 
investment grade credit rating. at the 
same time, we will continue to drive 
organic growth through new product 
development, investments to increase 
market share and carefully selected 
acquisitions.
although we remain wary of market 
conditions due to continuing economic 
uncertainty, the strength of our leaner 
more focused g roup with its diversified 
international portfolio of market leading 
companies allows the board to be 
cautiously optimistic of achieving 
another year of underlying growth.
martin morgan 
Chief executive
f or euromoney, although the broader 
outlook for global economic growth 
remains challenging, the outlook for the 
start of the new year is good and 
euromoney expects the good revenue 
performance achieved in the second 
half of the year to continue into the first 
quarter. f urther, subscriptions were 
growing at an annual rate of 7% at the 
end of 2010, which provides support for 
further growth in 2011. however, there is 
uncertainty over the outlook beyond 
december.
after a strong recovery and return to 
revenue growth in 2010, euromoney will 
continue to pursue its successful 
strategy with an emphasis on investing 
in technology and new subscription-
based electronic information services, 
supplemented with small strategic 
acquisitions. the level of spending on 
technology and new product 
investment will increase further in 2011. 
in the short term, this may reduce 
operating* margins as most of the 
investment is being made in 
subscription-based electronic 
information services which have a long 
lead time to build and sell. 
Within a&n media, national advertising 
revenue at associated in the first eight 
weeks of the new year was up 9% on 
last year, continuing the recovery we 
have seen since January. it is still very 
difficult to predict future revenue trends, 
but the strength of our key brands, fast 
growing digital businesses and focused 
cost control, leave associated well 
placed to capitalise on any further 
recovery in the economy.  We are, 
however, facing upward pressure on 
newsprint prices. We expect to see 
continuing strong growth in mail o nline 
readership.
n orthcliffe is facing another tough year. 
advertising revenue in the first eight 
weeks was down 6% on last year, 
continuing to track the year on year 
trend experienced in 2009/10 (like-for-
like decline of 7%). the outlook for the 
first quarter is not expected to improve 
on this trend. as with associated, 
n orthcliffe will be affected by higher 
newsprint prices. although cost 
reduction initiatives will continue, 
