 daily mail and general trust plC  
annual report 2010
2
business
l ast year i spoke of my father’s decision 
to diversify the g roup’s assets and how, 
in the current context, that decision 
proved to have been inspired. the 
diversity of our global b2b assets has 
given dmgt a stability that may have 
been missing from other uK consumer 
media businesses. it is thanks to that 
support and stability that our uK 
consumer media assets have been able 
to consolidate their focus, innovate  
and bounce back, rebalancing the 
g roup’s operating profit* such that the 
percentage derived from b2b was down 
from 71% to 66% this year. 
but i make a further point. t he content 
driven from our national newspaper 
brands, thanks to continued investment 
and attention to their editorial quality, 
has attracted global audiences at an 
accelerating rate, particularly through 
mail o nline. a focus of the g roup will be 
on deriving increasing revenues from 
these young and affluent viewers, many 
of whom have no obvious affiliation 
with the uK and little or no exposure to 
the mail brand, but who are drawn to us 
because they like what they read, and 
who are joined daily by others from 
countries as diverse as the us and i ndia. 
that is why i believe we are adding 
increasing value to our b2C assets, even 
as we deal with the remaining legacy 
issues at our regional newspapers. 
strong re Covery for dmgt 
debt is falling quickly, cash flows are 
strong, our operating profit* grew by 
17% in the year to 3rd o ctober, and 
earnings per share were a record.  
i cannot tell you what lies ahead, but at 
dmgt we are steadily building value 
– including in our national newspaper 
business – and the spirit among my 
colleagues is one of determination to 
meet any challenges, coupled with an 
even stronger determination to grow 
sustainable revenues and profits.
Chairman’s statement
We’ve emerged from an economic recession 
in the UK, a world financial crisis, the most 
profound and continuing changes in the 
media industry, and your company is in very 
good health.
* adjusted operating profit (before 
exceptional items and amortisation and 
impairment of intangible assets).
the v iscount r othermere 
Chairman 3
 Chairman’s statement 
 business revieW 
 Corporate responsibility 
 direCtors’ report 
 Corporate governanCe 
 remuneration report 
 finanCial statements 
 shareholder information 
people
it has always been a belief of mine that 
media businesses are only as good as 
the people in them. at dmgt we have 
a remarkably strong team across the 
g roup at every level of the Company.  
i am glad to see martin morgan, our 
Chief executive, executing the talent 
agenda to assess the qualities of the 
future management of all the 
businesses. i am also pleased that we 
have established a new investment  
and f inance Committee, and a new 
l eadership team that focuses on 
longer-term strategy. We have 
continued running the l eadership 
course that was launched last year.  
i am excited to see internal promotions 
as well as new entrepreneurial talent 
from outside. as a result, we have a 
more cohesive and deeper level of 
management talent than i think we 
have ever had.
talent is the cornerstone of dmgt ; as 
martin so aptly says, superior business 
performance can only be achieved by 
superior people. l ast year we displayed 
exceptional business performance 
within constrained economic conditions. 
teChnology 
in the last year we have seen stunning 
technological advancements from 
augmented reality to 3d cinema, but 
the ones most relevant to us are, of 
course, the tablets and e-readers. the 
potential to revolutionise the way our 
consumer interacts with our brands is 
significant. the physical interaction 
involved in their use could transform our 
advertising model and encourage 
more inter-brand synergy than ever 
before. We are very interested in their 
potential and convinced that the 
innovative teams across the g roup, in 
both our b2b and b 2C companies, will 
find entrepreneurial ways of exploiting 
this new technology. 
metro was one of the first print 
publications to release an ipad 
application and the mail is soon to 
follow. all of our b2b businesses are 
actively exploring similar launches.  
all feel they offer more opportunities 
than challenges.
b oard
it is with regret that we will say goodbye 
in march to peter Williams, our f inance 
director since 1991. peter has been with 
dmgt since 1982. h e has combined all 
the best qualities that you look for in a 
f inance director: he is reliable, shrewd, 
has good judgement and is both 
respected and admired throughout  
the Company. he will be missed greatly, 
not only for his diligence, hard work  
and loyalty over so many years, but  
also as a friend and colleague whose 
personal values embody all that is best 
about dmgt .
i take this opportunity to welcome in 
advance stephen daintith, who will join 
us in January and take over from peter 
after his retirement in march. stephen 
comes to us with excellent credentials 
at dow Jones and n ews international 
and i believe he will add much to the 
central management team.
l oo King for Ward
i said at the end of our investor day 
earlier this year that i had never felt 
more excited to be Chairman of this 
Company; this remains unchanged 
today. there has never been a  
greater sense of team or a better 
understanding of the values that drive 
us. tough times have tested us and, 
during the last year, i have witnessed 
such determination and focus, such 
commitment and diligence that i have 
been deeply gratified. o n your behalf 
and mine, i thank all our colleagues at 
our businesses across the world who 
have done so much to bring us  
through such change, and who look 
forward to the opportunities and 
challenges ahead.
r othermere
Chairman
