 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Brand Market Brand 
growth*
Market 
growth**
UK cheese 6% 2%
UK butter, spreads, margarine 9% 8%
UK butter, spreads, margarine 9% 8%
French non-butter spreads 10% 0%
Flavoured milk 3% 8%
Total 7%
 * Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2011 v 12 months to 31 March 2010
** ACN, IRI data to 19 March 2011
Dairy Crest’s results for the year demonstrate the benefit of 
being a broadly based business. A strong performance from our 
branded Spreads and Cheese businesses has more than offset 
tougher trading in Dairies. 
 We have again increased added value sales. Our five key 
brands have all performed well. We have grown sales of milk to 
major retailers, started to supply liquid milk to Tesco and made 
considerable progress with our milk&more internet doorstep 
delivery service. We expect increased investment in advertising 
our key brands and milk&more to bring benefits in the future.
 We have also been successful in making cost savings across 
the business to reduce the effect that commodity inflation is having 
on our customers and consumers and have lowered net debt 
again this year.
Chief Executive’s review
Vision	 and	 values
Our vision and values are at the heart of our 
business and we have made real progress 
in making them come alive this year. 
 For us, consumers come first and 
by understanding our consumers we 
have continued to drive the sales of our 
key brands. We have also increased the 
turnover from our milk&more proposition. In 
the fourth quarter milk&more weekly sales 
passed the £1 million milestone and have 
continued to grow since the year end.
 Consumer innovation developed in the 
last three years is becoming an increasing 
part of our annual turnover. We have set 
ourselves the challenging objective for this 
to reach 10% although we are still slightly 
below that figure at the moment. We are 
particularly pleased by the performance of 
our healthy ‘lighter’ cheese and spreads 
brands, 1% fat milk and environmentally-
friendly milk in bags. We have a strong 
pipeline of innovative products that will 
benefit future years.
 We act responsibly and asked 
Business in the Community to benchmark 
our progress using their Corporate 
Responsibility index. We were pleased 
to be awarded a silver rating. We also 
carried out an employee survey which 
demonstrated some improvements and 
highlighted areas we can improve further.
 Our relationship with the dairy farmers 
who supply their milk to us is very 
important. Although UK milk production 
grew during the year for the first time 
since 2004, increases in on-farm costs 
during the second half of the year has put 
pressure on our dairy farmers. We have  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 15
responded by increasing our milk prices 
and continue to support our suppliers in 
many different ways.
Financial	 summary
Adjusted Group profit before tax was up 
5% at £87.6 million (2010: £83.5 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 6% to 47.1 pence (2010: 
44.5 pence). Reported profit before tax 
of £77.8 million was unchanged from last 
year despite the benefit of £4 million of 
exceptional income in the prior year.
 Group net debt at 31 March 2011 was 
£311.6 million (2010: £337.2 million).
Trading	 performance
Dairy Crest’s sales mix continues to improve 
as we grow sales of our key brands and 
reduce our middle ground milk sales.
 Our five key brands have all grown 
ahead of the market with the exception 
of FRijj where, as previously reported, 
manufacturing capacity was constrained 
for part of the year. 
 In a difficult marketplace we have 
again delivered increased pre-exceptional 
profits. This is due to our focus on quality, 
service and cost. Over recent years 
we have invested heavily in our cheese 
business and are one year into a three 
year capital investment programme for our 
liquid dairies. This is on track to deliver 
the anticipated efficiency improvements, 
reducing production costs and wastage. 
 We are also reducing costs in our 
depot network and have worked with our 
non-milk suppliers to take costs out of all 
areas of the supply chain. 
Overview
Taken together we have commenced 
initiatives in the year that will deliver over 
£20 million of annualised cost savings. We 
achieved the same target in the previous 
year and have well advanced plans to 
do so again in the year ending 31 March 
2012. Our cost base excluding milk and 
commodity ingredients is around £800 
million and we believe that cost initiatives 
of 2.5% of this each year is a reasonable 
target for the next few years.
 Our focus on efficiency has allowed  
us to invest more in marketing and 
innovation and limit the increase in input 
costs that we have had to pass on to 
customers and consumers. 
 Increased staff training has also 
contributed to improved service and quality.
 In addition we have benefited from 
the work we have done in recent years to 
reduce risk. We now have a far simpler 
business which allows greater focus.
	
Looking	 forward
In Spreads and Cheese our strong 
innovation pipeline will help build on our 
current momentum and further grow sales 
of our key brands.
 Our Dairies business is facing an 
increasingly tough operating environment. 
A very competitive market has put 
pressure on this side of the business.
Input costs have risen during the fourth 
quarter of 2010/11 and dealing with 
them is a key priority for the year ahead. 
We will do this by continuing to make 
efficiency savings and agreeing selling 
price increases with customers. In total 
milk costs have increased by over £40 
million per annum, although, in the case 
of dedicated milk pools, this has been 
immediately offset by higher selling prices. 
Other commodity input costs such as 
vegetable oil, fuel and packaging are 
forecast to be around £25 million higher in 
2011/12 than in 2010/11.
 We will also continue to focus on cash 
generation, however we expect that net 
borrowings will increase in the year ending 
31 March 2012, reflecting higher cheese 
stocks and increased capital investment.
 Trading in the new financial year has 
started in line with our expectations. 
 Against a background of higher input 
costs and increasingly cash-constrained 
consumers we will continue to focus on 
doing the right things for long term benefit, 
including making efficiency improvements 
and investing in our brands and facilities. 
We are soundly positioned to deal with the 
challenges ahead.
Mark	 Allen	 Chief Executive
18 May 2011
5% 
increase in Adjusted 
Group profit before tax 
to £87 .6 million
6% 
increase in Adjusted 
basic earnings per share 
to 47 .1 pence
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
8% 
reduction in net debt  
to £311.6 million
