 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 13
Chairman’s statement
Strategy
Our	 strategy	 has	 four	 parts:
•  To build market-leading 
positions in branded and 
added value markets;
•  To focus on cost 
reduction and efficiency 
improvements;
•  To improve quality of 
earnings and reduce risk;
•  To generate organic  
growth and to make 
acquisitions and disposals 
where they will generate 
value.
As shown throughout this statement we 
have made progress in all these areas over 
the year. 
 Innovation plays a key role in building 
added value sales and driving efficiencies. 
We have increased our focus on 
innovation in recent years by adapting our 
culture, improving systems and increasing 
resources. I am pleased that this focus 
has started to make a real difference to 
the business.
 We believe this strategy remains 
appropriate for today’s economic 
environment.
Our	 people	 and	 our	 dairy	 farmers
At the end of my first full year as Chairman 
I would like to thank all of the people 
who work with us for their important 
contribution over the past year. I include all 
the efforts made by the 1,330 dairy farmers 
who supply their milk to us. The long-term 
commitment of our employees, franchisee 
milkmen and dairy farmers has allowed 
us to move successfully our business to 
a broadly based, added value dairy food 
company with a significant profit stream 
from continental Europe. This leaves us 
well positioned for the future. 
Market	 background
The markets in which we operate remain 
challenging and consumers are coming 
under increasing financial pressure. 
Although we produce staple foods we 
have been very conscious of the need to 
provide consumers with good value and 
great quality at the right cost. We have 
also spent more on advertising to promote 
the benefits of our key brands. 
 At the same time we have seen higher 
input prices for milk, ingredients, packaging 
and distribution. By driving efficiencies 
throughout our business we have 
successfully reduced the cost increases we 
have needed to pass onto our customers.
Increased	 dividend	 recommended
Adjusted profit before tax was up 5% and as 
a result the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 14.2 pence per share, making a 
full year dividend of 19.7 pence, an increase 
of 4.2% over the previous year. This dividend 
is covered 2.4 times by adjusted basic 
earnings per share in line with our policy for 
dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Corporate	 responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business. We 
have made significant progress in this area 
over recent years and will continue to do 
so going forward. Looking forward our aim 
is to ensure that we align commercial and 
corporate responsibility strategies for the 
benefit of all our stakeholders.
Board	 changes
During the year Richard Macdonald and 
Stephen Alexander have been appointed 
as Non-executive Directors, replacing Neil 
Monnery and Carole Piwnica. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank Neil and 
Carole for their important contributions 
and to welcome Richard and Stephen to 
the Board.
Summary
While we expect that the market 
environment will remain challenging,  
Dairy Crest is an increasingly robust 
business. We have a good customer 
base, strong brands and a wide portfolio 
of products. We believe the strategy 
to develop our leading brands and our 
continued focus on efficiency remains the 
best way forward.
	 	 Anthony	 Fry	 Chairman
  18 May 2011
Overview
In a challenging environment the Board is pleased that our 
broadly based business has delivered increased pre-exceptional 
profits and reduced borrowings. We are encouraged by the 
progress we have made executing our strategy, in particular  
the growth of our key brands. 
WE LEAD
We value success and  
strive to be the best
