 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
We are also proactively shaping our 
business for the future and in March 
2012 announced a strategic review 
of our French spreads business, St 
Hubert, which is progressing. Since 
the year end we have also announced a 
series of actions to restore our Dairies 
business to a satisfactory level of 
profitability in the medium term. 
Market background
The start of the year saw significant cost 
price inflation in both the UK and France. 
We had to achieve a balance between 
recovering this through higher selling prices 
and continuing to grow sales volumes. 
Chief Executive’s review
Dairy Crest’s results for the year 
demonstrate the continued benefit 
of being a broadly based business. 
Double digit growth from our branded 
Spreads and Cheese businesses has 
offset unsatisfactory results in Dairies. 
 We have maintained adjusted Group 
profits despite facing inflationary cost 
pressures of around £80 million this 
year by making annualised cost savings 
of around £22 million and achieving 
selling price increases. This has been 
made possible by a programme of 
consistent investment in developing 
our key brands and building a modern, 
efficient supply chain. 
I am pleased that we were successful in 
driving further efficiencies throughout our 
business, which allowed us to minimise the 
cost increases we needed to pass onto our 
customers. Our success is evidenced by our 
maintained profitability and increased sales 
of our key brands.
 In the final quarter of the year dairy 
commodity markets fell sharply and this 
added to the downward pressure on the 
profitability of our Dairies business, which had 
faced difficult trading conditions throughout 
the year. We have responded decisively to the 
challenges facing this business by consulting 
on the closure of two of our dairies, 
increasing some selling prices and reducing 
some of our raw milk purchase prices.
 Consumer confidence remains fragile 
and we expect the markets in which we 
operate to remain challenging.
Trading performance
We increased sales and markedly improved 
our sales mix as we grew our key brands. 
Sales of our five key brands slowed in 
the first half as we obtained selling price 
increases that were necessary to offset 
inflationary input costs, but a strong second 
half resulted in both volume and value 
growth for the year as a whole.
 We have continued to invest strongly 
behind all of our key brands and are 
committed to their ongoing growth. 
Cathedral City and St Hubert both achieved 
Total Revenue up 2%
 Strong growth in Foods (revenue 
+10%), supported by continued 
progress from key brands
 More focused Dairies business 
(revenue -2%), as action taken to 
improve customer mix 
Adjusted profit before tax 
maintained in challenging trading 
conditions
Exceptional non-cash impairment 
charges in Dairies of £81.7 million 
leads to a reported loss
Key net debt to EBITDA ratio at 2.2 
well within covenant of 3.5
Proposed final dividend up 4% at 
14.7p per share, demonstrating 
a commitment to progressive 
dividend policy
Sales of five key brands up 11% 
 Record market shares for Cathedral 
City and St Hubert in fourth quarter
Innovation driving added value 
sales and efficiencies
 10% of sales now derived from 
products and services developed in 
the last three years, such as Chedds 
and FRijj the Incredible 
 milk&more weekly sales up to £1.2 
million
Input cost increases of around £80 
million recovered through cost 
savings and selling price increases
£22 million annualised cost savings 
delivered during the year, with a 
further £20 million identified for 
2012/13 
Business In The Community gold 
award reflects strong commitment 
to Corporate responsibility
Strategic review of French 
spreads business 
progressing
Decisive steps taken since 
year end to return Dairies 
business to a satisfactory 
level of profitability in the 
medium term
Branded food acquisition, 
MH Foods, widened 
product portfolio
Financial highlights Operating highlights Strategic highlights Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 15
Brand Market Market growth* Brand growth**
UK cheese +4% +12%
UK butter, spreads, margarine +12% +16%
UK butter, spreads, margarine +12% -1%
French non-butter spreads +6% +19%
Fresh ﬂavoured milk +27% +7%
Total + 1 1 %
* ACN, IRI data to 19 March 2012  ** Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2012 v 12 months to 31 March 2011
record market shares in the fourth quarter 
and Cathedral City was short listed to be 
Marketing Week’s brand of the year against 
five other brands including Heinz, John 
Lewis and the BBC. We were also delighted 
to win the Grocer magazine’s branded dairy 
supplier of the year award.
 Innovation remains hugely important 
to Dairy Crest and we have an ongoing 
focus to develop new products, services 
and ways of working. During 2011 we 
launched four new ranges, two in France (St 
Hubert 5 Céréales and St Hubert Spécialité 
Culinaire) and two in the UK (Chedds and 
FRijj The Incredible). A good performance 
by all four has contributed to an increase in 
sales derived from products and services 
developed in the last three years to 10% of 
overall sales, ahead of last year and in line 
with our ambitious long-term target. 
 During the year we also widened our 
product base with the purchase of the 
branded food business MH Foods. This 
business manufactures healthy ‘one calorie’ 
spray cooking oils under the FryLight brand 
and we are making good progress with our 
plans to develop its sales and profits.
 We have already commenced initiatives 
in the current financial year that will again 
deliver over £20 million of annualised cost 
savings, equivalent to around 2.5% of our 
cost base excluding milk and commodity 
ingredients. We achieved the same target in 
the year ended 31 March 2012.
Dairies review
In a very challenging trading environment, 
our Dairies business did not achieve an 
acceptable level of profitability. On top of 
downward pressure on selling prices in 
a tough consumer environment and an 
extremely competitive ‘middle-ground’, the 
whole sector suffered from steeply falling 
dairy commodity markets. 
 Lower returns from these dairy 
commodity markets offset an improved 
second half performance, which was 
supported by the actions we took in the 
business during the year. These included 
increased sales of innovative new products 
including milk&more, FRijj The Incredible, 
milk bags and 1% fat milk, as well as 
efficiency improvements generated in part 
by the three year, £75 million investment in 
our core liquid dairies.
 Since the year end we have continued 
to act decisively to protect the future of our 
Dairies business and have announced a 
series of initiatives to restore this business to 
a satisfactory level of profitability, including the 
difficult decisions to consult on the closures 
of two dairies, reduce some of our milk 
purchase prices, make further depot closures 
and cut a number of head office jobs.
 We are now the only UK listed dairy 
business and the only major liquid milk 
processor predominantly in British 
ownership. From a strong core of three 
modern and well invested liquid milk dairies 
we will continue to review all elements of this 
business to ensure its ongoing strength.
Financial summary
Adjusted Group profit before tax was 
essentially flat at £87.4 million (2011: £87.6 
million). Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 5% to 49.4 pence (2011: 47.1 
pence). However exceptional, non-cash 
impairment charges associated with our 
Dairies business led to a reported loss before 
tax of £10.1 million and a basic loss per share 
of 12.8 pence (2011: reported profit £77.8 
million, basic earnings per share 43.2 pence).
 Group net debt at 31 March 2012 was 
£336.4 million (2011: £311.6 million), principally 
reflecting higher cheese stocks, which are 
necessary to fuel the growth in Cathedral 
City, offset by strong quarter four cash 
collection.
Current trading
In the current financial year, we are seeing 
continued strong momentum in our Foods 
businesses and we expect Dairies to benefit 
from the decisive action we are taking and 
our continued discipline on costs.
Overview
Mark Allen Chief Executive
23 May 2012
