 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 13
Chairman’s statement
shareholders; and to many other individuals 
and groups. Balancing the interests of these 
is never easy, but remains a key priority for 
the Board. 
 We have recently received the results 
of our latest employee survey and are 
encouraged by the progress we have made, 
although there is always more to do. We 
have had to take some difficult decisions 
on staffing levels this year, and since the 
year end we have announced a proposal 
to consult on the closure of two dairies. 
We will do all we can to help the almost 
500 employees who are affected by these 
proposals.
 Our relationship with the dairy farmers 
who supply their milk to us is very important. 
Without them we would not have a business. 
During the year we have paid record prices 
to our dairy farmers and despite a recent 
reduction they remain at historically high 
levels – as they have to be to reflect high 
on-farm costs. This has encouraged many 
of the farmers who supply us to invest in 
their businesses to provide a growing milk 
supply and contribute to a more stable UK 
dairy sector. We remain committed to paying 
fair, market-related milk prices.
 On behalf of the Board I would like to 
thank all of the people who work for Dairy 
Crest directly or indirectly for their important 
contribution over the past year.
Corporate responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business and 
we aim to ensure that we align commercial 
and corporate responsibility strategies for 
the benefit of all our stakeholders. This year 
we are pleased to have been awarded a 
gold Corporate Responsibility Index rating 
by Business in the Community and to have 
been the leading new entrant into their 
public rating. We take a practical approach 
to Corporate responsibility. For example, 
as part of our plan to create a more diverse 
workforce, rather than setting quotas for the 
number of women we employ at different 
Strategy
The Board remains determined to take 
proactive action to position Dairy Crest for 
the future, in line with our well established 
strategy of growing brands, driving 
efficiencies, improving the quality of earnings 
and making acquisitions and disposals 
which generate value for shareholders. 
 The strategic review of the Group’s 
French spreads business and the proposed 
restructuring of the Dairies business are in 
line with this strategy and are right for the 
long-term future of the Group.
 The review of our French branded 
spreads business is evaluating all options 
including a potential divestment of St 
Hubert. A disposal would reduce Dairy 
Crest’s debt and provide us with a number 
of alternatives including releasing some 
proceeds to shareholders, investing in 
our core business and making strategic 
acquisitions of branded dairy and chilled 
foods businesses in the UK. 
Vision and Values
The Group’s long-standing Vision and 
Values continue to underpin how the 
business is run. The Board has had to make 
some difficult decisions in response to the 
challenging environment the business faces, 
and our Vision and Values have provided a 
reliable framework within which these can 
be made and implemented.
 Consumers come first for Dairy Crest, 
and understanding our consumers has 
ensured that we have continued to drive 
added value sales. We know that bringing 
exciting new products to market is important 
to both retailers and consumers and we are 
pleased that the investment we have made 
in new product development and marketing 
in recent years is starting to deliver 
accelerated results.
 We also have responsibilities towards 
our employees and franchisees; to the dairy 
farmers who commit to our business by 
selling us all the milk from their farms; to our 
levels in the business, we have committed 
to a stretching target that 90% of employees 
return to work for us after maternity leave.
Board changes
The Board is responsible for the long-term 
success of the Group. To achieve this it 
requires the best possible mix of skills and 
experience. 
 During the year Sue Farr was appointed 
as a Non-executive Director and since the 
year end Howard Mann, our longest-serving 
Non-executive Director, has stepped down, 
having served nine years. I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank Howard for his 
important contribution and to welcome Sue 
to the Board.
Increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 14.7 pence per share, making a full year 
dividend of 20.4 pence, an increase of 
4% over the previous year. This dividend 
is covered 2.4 times by adjusted basic 
earnings per share in line with our policy for 
dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Summary
We have made progress this year by sticking 
to our strategy and continuing to invest in 
our leading brands and our factories. Our 
willingness to reshape our business to cope 
with new challenges will result in long-term 
value creation for everyone with an interest 
in Dairy Crest.
 
In a challenging trading environment the Board is pleased that 
Dairy Crest’s broadly based business has delivered stable pre-
exceptional profits. The quality of Dairy Crest’s earnings has also 
improved as a higher proportion of total sales and profits has 
been generated by the Group’s branded Foods businesses. 
WE LEAD
We value success and strive 
to be the best
Overview
Anthony Fry Chairman
23 May 2012
