 Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 10
Our strategic ambition is to become a  
global growth company, focused on three 
key areas: 
1. Growing our business-to-business (B2B) 
companies
2. Developing our consumer media franchise
3. Diversifying internationally into high-  
growth markets
INTRODuCTION
My Chief Executive’s Review sets out our 
philosophy, strategy and progress made over 
the past year, as well as outlining the main 
operational and financial factors which 
underpin our ongoing development  
and performance. 
A Business Review of the performance of 
each of our operating divisions follows on 
pages 22 to 37 . 
A Financial and Treasury Review is given on 
pages 38 to 43 and the principal risks and 
uncertainties the Group faces are set out  
on pages 52 to 55 of the Directors’ Report.
OuR PuRPOSE
Our core purpose is to seek out, invest in and 
grow a diverse group of high quality, 
entrepreneurially run businesses. The key to 
our long-term success is a culture where 
people are given the freedom to innovate in 
order to create outstanding products and 
services to meet customer needs. 
Throughout our long history, being controlled 
by the founding family has proved highly 
successful and well suited to the media and 
information industry. Our ownership structure 
allows us to take a longer-term perspective 
and gives us a competitive advantage.
We are committed to remaining a diversified 
Group with exposure to both the B2B and 
consumer media sectors in a variety of 
geographies serving a variety of industry 
sectors. This approach provides us with a 
breadth of opportunities and the ability to 
spread risk. 
Our B2B arm is made up of Risk Management 
Solutions (RMS), dmg::information, 
dmg::events and Euromoney Institutional 
Investor. We manage our consumer media 
activities through A&N Media, comprising the 
Daily Mail, The Mail On Sunday, MailOnline, 
Metro, Evenbase (our digital jobs search 
business), Zoopla Property Group (our interest 
in digital property search) and our local 
media business, Northcliffe Media. During the 
year, we disposed of our remaining interest  
in dmg Radio Australia Pty Ltd. Since the 
financial end we announced an agreement 
for the sale of Northcliffe Media to a new 
company called Local World.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Our overall ambition is to develop DMGT into 
a truly global growth company with an 
increasing exposure to emerging economies 
and high-growth markets.
We have identified five strategic priorities to 
help us realise our objective: 
The first is rigorous and active portfolio 
management. We have brought a sharper 
focus to our portfolio so as to concentrate 
talent and resources on businesses and 
brands where we see the greatest potential 
for profitable growth. 
Every part of the DMGT portfolio is regularly 
scrutinised. We undertake periodic, 
disciplined assessments of all current 
businesses. All new investment and 
acquisition proposals are carefully but  
rapidly evaluated within a predetermined 
framework of capital allocation priorities  
and against our strict investment criteria. 
Second, we pursue organic growth through 
innovation. We encourage our business 
leaders to create ambitious long-term 
growth plans. 
International growth is our third strategic 
priority. We are consciously diversifying 
internationally, with a special emphasis on 
growing our presence in high-growth 
markets. Our existing companies are looking 
for new international markets and are 
investing in bolt-on acquisitions that extend 
their geographic footprint.
Our fourth priority is technology. If we are  
to remain competitive we have to continue 
to embrace and harness new technologies. 
Owning both consumer media and business-
to-business organisations gives us a special 
opportunity to grow and cross-fertilise 
technological developments. We have 
stepped up the rate of technological 
change right across the Group. 
Our fifth priority, developing entrepreneurial 
talent, is becoming increasingly important.  
In creative businesses, ideas – and the 
people that have them – are what matter 
most. So we have been raising the bar on 
talent. We are committed to attracting and 
retaining the best people to optimise  
our decentralised operating approach and 
meet our global growth ambitions. Ensuring 
we have the right technical capabilities is a 
particular priority.
Financial discipline is the common factor 
underpinning all we do. Strong cash flows 
and a strengthened balance sheet give us 
the financial flexibility to take advantage of 
new opportunities and to weather adverse 
external events. Our capital allocation 
strategy prioritises organic growth supported 
by bolt-on acquisitions and investment in 
Martin Morgan 
Chief Executive Annual Report 2012 Strategic Report 11
Directors’ Report
Governance
Financial Statements
A global 
growth 
company
De v eloping our 
c onsumer media 
franchise
Growing our  
business-to-business  
companies
Diversifying 
internationally  
into  
high-growth  
markets
industry segment clusters. Post financial  
end we announced a share buy back 
programme of up to £100 million over  
the coming year.  
PROGRESS IN ThE yEAR
We made a great deal of progress in the 
pursuit of our strategic priorities over the last 
twelve months. As a way of measuring our 
success we monitor a series of key 
performance indicators (KPIs) covering both 
financial returns and strategic objectives. 
As can be seen on page 17 of this review, we 
have continued to derive the majority of our 
operating profit from our B2B companies and 
expanded our digital revenues. 
We completed several bolt-on acquisitions 
and selective disposals to ensure our capital 
is effectively utilised. All our acquisitions met 
our strict investment criteria. We invested 
additional resources to execute against our 
long-term plan for international growth.
There has been an increased focus on 
technology and digital transformation both 
in terms of adapting existing products and 
services to the changing way in which our 
customers access information, but also in 
terms of modernising our internal systems and 
processes. We clearly recognise that if we are 
to compete with new start-up companies we 
need to move away from expensive legacy 
systems and become more agile. 
We have completed the second DMGT 
Technology Summer School which focused 
on the implications of social networking, 
mobile technology and cloud computing. 
A&N Media created an Ideas Factory.  
A cross Group Council of Chief Technology 
Officers was set up, which I chair. 
We remain very much committed to 
reducing operational costs wherever 
possible. One significant example of the 
latter is the impending move of our London 
print operation to a new site in Essex. 
As mentioned before, we have elevated the 
priority given to talent and continued to 
refine and develop our leadership 
programme, which is now in its third year.  
This year saw the holding of a Chairman’s 
Conference for executives drawn from across 
the Group. It provided an outstanding 
opportunity to harness the depth and 
breadth of talent we have throughout our 
organisation. It was held in Bangalore to 
emphasise the seriousness of our intent to 
become a more global company. 
Group strategy Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 12
Delivering our strategy
Active portfolio 
management
Driving international growth
Identifying, cultivating and 
developing entrepreneurial 
talent
Growing our 
business-to-
business 
companies
Developing our  
consumer media  
franchise
Diversifying  
internationally  
into high-  
growth markets
Ensuring we have the 
technology to adapt to the 
changing market place
Fostering greater innovation 
to deliver organic growth
Our strategy: three components Our five strategic priorities Annual Report 2012 Strategic Report 13
Directors’ Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Delivering our strategy
RMS LifeRisks 
LifeRisks is a licensable model to manage 
risks from longevity and excess mortality for 
the life insurance and pension risk industry. It 
enables companies to assess their life and 
annuity portfolios and is underpinned by 
detailed medical research and social 
change projections. 
Genscape Biofuel Monitoring 
The RIN Integrity Network was 
launched to insure greater market 
transparency in tracking the volume 
of renewable fuel produced in or 
imported into the United States. The 
Genscape product serves biodiesel 
producers, marketers and blenders.
Asia Risk Centre
Asia Risk Centre (ARC) is based in 
Singapore and is a spin-off from RMS. 
ARC’s risk analytics are designed to help 
emerging market populations manage 
catastrophe risk for the infrastructure, 
property and agriculture sectors. ARC  
is already active in India and China.
Operating profit
UK* 29%
North 
America
56%
Other 15%
*Post Northcliffe disposal
Revenue by type
Digital 39%
Print 48%
Other 13%
Revenue by type
Digital 31%
Print 55%
Other 14%
Big 5 Saudi Arabia  
In 201 1 dmg::events 
launched their successful 
Big 5 construction show  
into Saudi Arabia. This year 
the show doubled in size 
enabling dmg::events to 
unlock the dynamic  
Saudi market.
Technology Summer School
The second DMGT Technology 
Summer School was held and 
focused on the implications of social 
networking, mobile technology and 
cloud computing. The event also saw 
the first meeting of the cross Group 
Council of Chief Technology Officers
Chairman’s Conference 2012
At the second Chairman’s Conference 
in March, 100 delegates from all of 
DMGT’s businesses spent a week in 
Bangalore, India to learn about entering 
and investing in new geographies, to 
discuss strategy and to agree on big 
priorities for the Group.
Bolt-on acquisitions
DMGT has a preference to bolt-on 
acquisitions where we can invest in 
businesses that complement our existing 
portfolio. We look for those led by 
entrepreneurial leaders who we can retain 
and support. Examples this year are the 
dmg:information acquisitions of Springrock, 
Intelliworks and PrepMe.
Strategy in action
Zoopla Property Group 
The merger of our online property business 
The Digital Property Group with Zoopla has 
created a world-class property search 
company. DMGT retains a 52.25% share  
in the Zoopla Property Group.
Fy2012 – £75m Fy2012 – £1 1 7m
50% dmg radio Australia,  
Evanta, Teletext, Motors.co.uk
Top-Consultant.com
Acquisitions v disposals 2012
Jobrapido, Intelliworks, Xceligent
Global Grain, Geneva and Asia, 
PrepMe, Spring Rock
Praedicat, BuilderRadius,
Topper Newspapers 
2011 2012
2012
*Figures exclude Northcliffe *Figures exclude Northcliffe Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 14
We continued to review the incentives and 
rewards we have in place at each operating 
company to ensure that they match our 
expectations for growth by encouraging and 
nurturing successful entrepreneurial 
leadership, so vital to raising performance 
over the longer term. 
On compensation, we do not apply a ‘one 
size fits all’ policy. This is a major strength, 
reflecting the value of the decentralised 
model and diversified nature of our portfolio 
of businesses. The Remuneration Committee 
ensures that compensation is aligned with 
the strategies and particular circumstances 
of each operating company. 
We continued to exercise financial discipline 
with strong cash flow conversion and active 
portfolio management resulting in a reduced 
level of net debt. This has been the fourth 
consecutive year when disposal proceeds 
have exceeded acquisition costs. In addition, 
the new pension guarantee structure, 
established in July 2012, is expected to 
reduce the near-term cash payments  
to the defined benefit pension fund. 
As a result we are increasingly able to 
finance the wealth of opportunities we  
see in front of us.
OPERATIONAL MODEL
We take a considerable amount of comfort 
in the fact that we know all our companies 
are run by chief executives with expert 
knowledge of the markets in which they 
operate. Autonomous management keeps 
decision making close to the customer,  
as real innovation comes from having  
a genuine customer focus. 
We deliberately strive to run DMGT in a 
manner which provides a fertile environment 
for our people to produce innovative ideas 
by adopting a decentralised structure. 
Maintaining this approach is of the utmost 
importance to me and my colleagues 
because we realise that to survive in a  
rapidly changing media world, you must  
be able to react quickly and effectively.  
We build value by creating conditions  
where diverse businesses can prosper and 
experience sustained growth. We give our 
businesses freedom to operate within  
a broad framework.
The benefits are numerous. For example,  
it enabled us to respond rapidly to the 
economic downturn and to digital 
opportunities.
At Group level, the Investment and Finance 
Committee of the Board oversees Group 
strategy development. It makes decisions  
on investment and capital allocation acting 
independently from the operating 
companies. The DMGT Leadership Team 
comprises the operating company leaders, 
together with the DMGT executive team.  
Its remit is to focus on furthering cross-Group 
co-operation when and where this makes 
sense, for example Group leadership courses, 
communications and international 
expansion. It complements the decision 
making and accountability structures in 
place through our decentralised  
operating structure.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy 
Across the Group we take corporate 
responsibility (CR) seriously and it permeates 
our outlook on the environment, the way we 
treat our employees, our customers and 
suppliers, as well as on local community 
issues. 
We recognise that our businesses have an 
impact on the environment, be that through 
our printing operations, offices, transport or 
other activities. We are truly committed to 
ensuring that, where possible, our impact on 
the environment is minimised. 
The greatest impact we make on the 
environment arises from our printing 
operations. Here, I am pleased to say that  
we have been diligent in measuring and 
reducing waste in our usage of materials, 
and through our analysis of our carbon 
footprint, monitoring and improving our 
efficiency in the use of energy. 
We started to measure our footprint in 2006 
and the Group’s emissions have fallen 
steadily since then. This year we are 
announcing that we have set a new target 
for reducing carbon emissions over the next 
three years.
At Harmsworth Quays, our largest printing 
plant, and Northcliffe House, the Company’s 
headquarters and the London base of 
Associated Newspapers, Northcliffe Media 
and dmg::events, we maintained the key 
international environmental standard ISO 
14001. We also hold this standard at our 
Landmark office in Exeter. 
Community involvement is integral to the way 
we run our company, as is its importance to 
the personal motivation of our employees. 
We donate money, time and in-kind 
donations such as advertising space, and 
staff participate in a huge range of activities, 
including fund-raising, organising events and 
acting as trustees to charitable initiatives. Annual Report 2012 Strategic Report 15
Directors’ Report
Governance
Financial Statements
ACTIvE PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
When I became Chief Executive in 2008,  
I recognised the need for us to focus on  
a narrower range of activities in order to 
concentrate human resources and financial 
capital where the most potential for 
long-term growth and value creation existed. 
I stated that we would be active managers 
of our portfolio of businesses and apply our 
investment criteria vigorously in determining 
where to allocate capital. At the same time 
we would maintain our long-term 
perspective and a high rate of internal 
investment to drive organic growth. 
The investment criteria that I identified then 
has encouraged investing in businesses 
which operate in attractive growth markets. 
Such businesses need to have products or 
services which are highly innovative and 
highly valued, ones which customers repeat 
buy. We prefer to invest in businesses that are 
either in international markets or offer scope 
to expand internationally, especially into 
high-growth economies. We have a strong 
bias towards market leaders and businesses 
with high-margin, cash-generative 
characteristics expected to produce a high 
return on capital. We are also focused on 
gaining access to and retaining 
entrepreneurial management and we give 
preference to businesses which can benefit 
from DMGT’s long-term perspective. 
In keeping with this approach, we have 
further refocused the portfolio with a range 
of disposals, acquisitions and selective 
investments throughout the year. We 
announced a series of bolt-on acquisitions  
at dmg::information including Intelliworks, 
PrepMe and SpringRock. Euromoney 
acquired Global Grain Geneva and Global 
Grain Asia and A&N Media acquired 
Jobrapido. We also announced the merger 
of our online property portal, The Digital 
Property Group, with Zoopla to create a 
world-class property search business. 
dmg::information also made a series of 
investments in the US property market 
through Xceligent, Real Capital Analytics  
and BuildFax. In total, acquisitions, including 
a slight increase in our shareholding in 
Euromoney to offset dilution from incentive 
plans, utilised £75 million of cash.
Following the year-end we made a further 
bolt-on investment at Hobsons with their 
acquisition of the US website Beat the GMAT. 
We also made a number of disposals of 
non-core businesses. Disposals in the early 
part of the year were primarily focused in 
Associated (Top Consultant, motors.co.uk 
and Teletext) whilst in the second half of the 
year we announced the disposal of our 
remaining stake in DMG Radio Australia and 
the sale of dmg::event’s Evanta leadership 
and conference business. Total disposal 
proceeds amounted to £125 million.
Post year-end on 21st November, 2012 we 
announced we had reached agreement to 
sell Northcliffe Media, to Local World, a newly 
formed media group. DMGT will receive 
consideration of £52.5 million in cash and  
a 38.7% shareholding in Local World, which  
will allow us to benefit from the potential 
upside from the evolution of the regional 
newspaper industry.
This portfolio management activity has 
further improved the overall quality of the 
DMGT portfolio and reduced debt. We 
succeeded in our long-term goal of 
increasing exposure to international markets.
ShARE PRICE PERFORMANCE
Our share performance remains important  
to us as an indicator as to whether our 
strategy is understood and appreciated  
by institutional investors.
The price of our widely traded ‘ A ’ Ordinary 
Non-Voting Shares has risen by 37% over the 
year, outperforming both the UK Media 
sector and the FTSE All-share index which 
provided returns of 18% and 14% respectively. 
As explained in last year’s Business Review, 
the decision by FTSE to adopt listing 
classifications for determining the weighting 
of share classes in their indices, resulted in 
DMGT’s weighting in the UK Index Series 
falling from 75% to 0%. The FTSE rules on 
standard listings means that DMGT ‘ A ’ shares 
are now no longer included in the FTSE UK 
Index Series. However, DMGT continues to be 
a member of a number of other important 
indices such as MSCI, STOXX and S&P . 
This change has made no impact on the 
approach DMGT takes to its obligations as  
a listed company. We will continue to adopt 
the obligations and practices of the UK  
Listing Rules as they have applied to DMGT 
historically, maintaining the highest standard 
of governance and disclosure including the 
application of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.  Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 16
WEIGhTING OF DMGT’S ‘A’ ShARES  
IN ThE FTSE INDICES
On 18th April, 2012, FTSE announced that 
DMGT’s ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting Shares 
would no longer be eligible for inclusion in 
the UK Series Index. The Board of DMGT has 
considered at length, with the assistance of 
its advisors, the options available to it and the 
suitability of such options to meet the needs 
of its stakeholders to make the ‘ A ’ Ordinary 
Non-Voting Shares eligible for inclusion in the 
UK Series Index but no solution has to date 
been found. The FSA ’s recently issued 
consultation paper on ‘Enhancing the 
effectiveness of the Listing Regime and 
feedback on CP12/2’ makes it more difficult 
to envisage how we can regain our premium 
listing. It is unlikely, therefore, that the ‘ A ’ 
Ordinary Non-Voting Shares will become 
eligible for inclusion in the index in the 
foreseeable future. However, DMGT’s ‘ A ’ 
Ordinary Non-Voting shares will continue to 
be standard listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange and to be a member of 
other important indices such as MSCI, STOXX, 
S&P and the FTSE Global Equity Index Series 
and DMGT will continue to maintain the 
highest standard of governance and 
disclosure. 
CAPITAL STRuCTuRE
The Company has not made a capital call 
on its shareholders since 1933. Growth is 
funded by long-term debt and by retained 
earnings. Since the late 1980s, our strategy 
has been to seek to raise the dividend in real 
terms over the economic cycle. Since 2002, 
the Board’s policy has been to target a real 
rate of growth in the dividend in the region  
of 5% to 7% on the basis of the Directors’ 
confidence in the Group’s long-term 
financial health. 
Subject to shareholder approval, the Board  
is recommending payment on the issued 
Ordinary and ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting Shares, 
a final dividend of 12.4 pence per share for 
the year ended 30th September, 2012 (201 1 
1 1.7 pence). This will make a total of 18.0 
pence (201 1 17 .0 pence per share). The final 
dividend will be paid on 8th February, 2013  
to shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 30th November, 2012. This is an 
increase of 6% for the year. The compound 
dividend growth over the last 20 years is 8.9% 
in nominal terms, which is an increase of 6.1% 
in real terms. 
Because of continued strong cash flow 
generation, representing a 1 13% conversion 
rate of operating profits, and the proceeds 
from disposals, our financial strength 
improved. We continue to have a 
comfortable level of longer-term funding 
through £678 million of outstanding bonds, 
with maturities ranging from December, 2018 
through to June, 2027 . At the year-end, we 
also had unused bank facilities of £298 
million. Given surplus cash of £107 million at 
the year end, we will consider buying back 
any bonds which become available, at the 
right price.
Throughout the year, we have stayed well 
within our own internal net debt to EBITDA 
limit of 2.4 times with our year-end net debt  
to EBITDA ratio standing at 1.6 times. 
Whilst we can comfortably run the Group 
without having to raise new finance, we  
may want to do so in order to sustain the 
Group’s long-term growth ambitions. 
Regaining investment grade status remains 
an objective.
We anticipate that capital allocation in the 
forthcoming year will continue to be funded 
from our existing capital structure and will be 
directed towards supporting the Group’s 
long-term growth ambitions as well as our 
continued commitment to growing the 
dividend in real terms. 
We believe that the creation of shareholder 
value over the long term requires a balanced 
approach to investing in growth and 
returning excess capital to shareholders, 
whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet.  
In reviewing our capital management 
programme the Board has decided to utilise 
part of its authority to make on market 
purchase of ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting Shares 
of up to £100 million over the coming year.
Containing and eventually eliminating 
significant liability risk and volatility from our 
pension schemes remains a high priority.  
The recently announced pension guarantee 
structure is a significant step in that direction.  Annual Report 2012 Strategic Report 17
Directors’ Report
Governance
Financial Statements
REvIEW OF ThE yEAR
DMGT has delivered a solid set of results, with 
Group underlying revenue and operating 
profit up 3% and 7% respectively and our 
operating margin increasing to 15%. 
Our international B2B companies have 
continued to grow underlying revenues, up 
7%, and profits, up 8%, reflecting the strength 
of their market positions as well as the success 
of new product launches and organic 
growth initiatives. 
We are pleased to report that our UK 
consumer business’s underlying revenue  
was flat overall in the face of continued 
challenging trading conditions, with 
circulation and digital revenue growth 
offsetting print advertising weakness. A strong 
focus on operational efficiency helped 
consumer underlying profits to grow by 7%.
73% of this year’s operating profit was 
generated from the Group’s B2B operations 
and 27% from Consumer, compared to 74% 
and 26% in 201 1 and more than half of the 
Group’s operating profits were again derived 
from outside the UK, demonstrating the 
benefits of our international diversification. 
Adjusted PBT grew by 10%, and after a higher 
tax rate compared to the prior year, adjusted 
EPS was up 7% to 49.4p. The increase in the full 
year dividend per share of 6% reflects the 
pleasing Group results and our confidence in 
the future of DMGT and its ability to generate 
sustainable earnings growth. 
BuSINESS-TO-BuSINESS SuMMARy
Our B2B operations achieved another year  
of good growth, with combined revenues of 
£899 million, 1% higher than last year, but up 
7% on an underlying basis. Reported revenue 
growth was lower than underlying growth, 
reflecting the disposal of George Little 
Management (GLM) within dmg::events and 
Sanborn within dmg::information. Combined 
B2B operating profit increased by 7%, or 8% 
on an underlying basis, with an overall B2B 
margin of 26%.
RISK MANAGEMENT SOLuTIONS
RMS delivered a solid year of revenue and 
profit growth. Revenues increased by 3% on  
a reported basis, with an underlying increase 
of 6% reflecting the disposal of the third-party 
part of RMS’s Indian operation (RMSI). 
Operating profit rose by 18%, with underlying 
profits up 7%, the difference due to the 
absence of RMSI losses in the year compared 
to the prior year’s inclusion. 
Subscriptions continued to grow well, with  
a renewal rate of approximately 95%. 
RMS enjoys multiple drivers of growth. While 
continuing to focus on its core catastrophe- 
modelling business, growth is increasingly 
being driven by new products and solutions 
such as Data Management Services and 
mortality risk analysis. Opportunities are also 
presenting themselves with new customers  
in new geographies as RMS expands 
globally. A key part of RMS’s development  
is the significant investment programme in  
a new software platform which is now firmly 
under way and is expected to generate high 
levels of future revenue growth. As a result, 
RMS increased headcount, consulting and 
hosting costs.
RMS spun off two development initiatives 
during the year. The Asia Risk Centre (ARC) 
was set up in Singapore under DMGT 
oversight. ARC is developing models for the 
agricultural insurance markets in Asia. The 
second spin-off was Praedicat which in 
partnership with the Rand Corporation is in 
the early stages of developing models for  
the liability insurance market.
The minority shareholding in RMS Japan was 
acquired from the OYO Corporation.
DMG INFORMATION
dmg::information had a good year, with 
reported revenue up 9%, or 1 1% on an 
underlying basis. Operating profit grew by a 
healthy 14%, with underlying operating profit 
up 19%.
dmg::information’s four sectors of education, 
property, finance and energy all contributed 
to growth, with a particularly strong 
performance from Hobsons serving the 
education market, and Landmark, serving 
the UK, and more recently German property 
markets with the acquisition of On-Geo.  
A series of bolt-on and adjacent sector 
investments were made. 
Its ambition to invest in must-have, high-
growth, innovative business information 
companies remains unchanged, as does its 
remit to diversify DMGT by sector, by business 
model and increasingly by geography.  Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 18
DMG EvENTS 
dmg::events delivered highly satisfactory 
results in a year which included only one  
of the three major biennial events which, 
alongside the sale of GLM, resulted in 
reported revenue being down 33%. Adjusting 
for these factors, underlying revenue 
increased by 13%, reflecting good organic 
growth across the portfolio. Reported 
operating profit decreased by 46%, but 
underlying growth of 21% was achieved.
dmg::events continued to refine its structure, 
with the disposal of Evanta, a conference 
business, announced in September, 2012. 
dmg::events is now focused on the growth 
verticals of Energy and Digital Marketing and 
in expanding its significant footprint in the 
Middle East into new countries such as Saudi 
Arabia, and into Asia.
EuROMONEy INSTITuTIONAL INvESTOR 
Euromoney’s record operating profit was  
up 9%, before its capital appreciation plan 
(CAP) expense, maintaining its impressive 
recent history of profits growth. 
These results confirm the value of 
Euromoney’s strategy to build a more resilient 
and better-focused business by increasing 
the proportion of revenues derived from 
subscription products, with subscriptions now 
accounting for nearly half of total revenues.  
A predominantly publishing-driven business 
has been transformed to one with significant 
activities in electronic information and 
database services. 
Euromoney has outperformed expectations, 
allowing management to shift its focus to 
positioning the business for growth, both  
from existing products as markets recover, 
and from investment in technology and  
new products. 
Euromoney’s performance and its shift into 
more subscription and digital activity and its 
global reach mean that the Board regards  
it as core to DMGT’s own strategic global 
growth ambitions. 
Euromoney’s separate listing on the London 
Stock Exchange has enabled it to introduce 
incentive plans which have motivated 
management to grow the company 
significantly over recent years. We remain  
a supportive shareholder, fully backing its 
management’s expansion strategy. We  
have slightly increased our equity interest  
to around 68%. 
CONSuMER MEDIA
At A&N Media, underlying revenues were  
in line with the prior year at £1,060 million,  
a decrease of 3% on a reported basis. 
Operating profit increased by 12%, with an 
operating margin of 10%. This was a very 
pleasing result in the context of continued 
challenging trading conditions in the UK, and 
is a testament to the success of our strategy 
to exploit the very best of traditional and new 
media, and bring them together in a way 
that meets the constant and rapidly 
changing demands of our consumers. 
Digitalisation and advances in technology 
have given A&N Media the ability to be more 
productive and efficient. Introducing less 
labour-intensive processes has enabled  
costs to be taken out of the business without 
sacrificing quality. This drive for efficiency  
has delivered a leaner and more robust 
foundation on which to grow, with 
headcount at A&N Media reducing  
by 855 (12%) in the year. 
ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS 
The Mail titles continued to outperform the 
market, with circulation revenues growing  
by 3% due to the benefit of cover price 
increases. Market share increased to 21.6% 
and 20.8% for the Daily Mail and The Mail  
on Sunday respectively. Content has been  
at the heart of the Group’s success at 
Associated and we continue to invest  
in editorial quality. Metro, the Group’s  
free newspaper, also continued to  
perform strongly. 
MailOnline had an excellent year, becoming 
the world’s most visited newspaper website, 
with 106 million global unique browsers in 
August, 2012. Revenues grew by 74% and the 
business was profitable in the second half of 
the year. The international expansion of 
MailOnline continued apace, and will  
be a key aspect driving its long-term  
growth potential.
Other digital initiatives, such as Wowcher,  
our consumer daily deals voucher business, 
saw strong growth and attracted additional 
investment in marketing and promotion. Annual Report 2012 Strategic Report 19
Directors’ Report
Governance
Financial Statements
A&N Media’s recruitment and property 
online portals both had an exciting year. 
Evenbase, our online recruitment businesses, 
acquired Jobrapido to establish an 
international footprint for expansion. At the 
end of May, The Digital Property Group 
merged with Zoopla to create a world-class 
property search platform and a genuine 
contender to challenge the dominant UK 
market leader. Our consumer digital 
revenues across all our consumer digital 
platforms including MailOnline, metro.co.uk, 
Evenbase, Zoopla Property Group and 
Wowcher were in the region of £140 million  
on a pro forma basis in 2012. 
As a result of circulation revenue growth and 
strong progress in digital revenues, overall 
underlying revenues at Associated were up 
2% in the year, despite another challenging 
year for print advertising.
NORThCLIFFE MEDIA 
Northcliffe’s revenue performance, down 
10% on a reported basis, reflects another 
difficult year for the UK regional press and 
continued advertising pressure. The lower 
underlying revenue decline of 6% reflects  
our efforts to transition the portfolio of titles, 
including the conversion of several titles from 
a daily to weekly basis. The transformation of 
the cost base continued rapidly, with costs 
down a further 15% in the year. This resulted in 
Northcliffe’s operating profit increasing by an 
impressive 54%, achieving a margin of 12%.
OuTLOOK 
We have entered our new financial year  
with our companies performing well and  
in line with our expectations. All of our  
B2B businesses are expected to deliver 
underlying revenue and profit growth in  
the year ahead. On the consumer side,  
we expect stable revenues and margins, 
reflecting an uncertain advertising 
environment balanced against continued 
growth in digital areas.
RMS has started the year as expected, with a 
solid sales pipeline and a range of significant 
development programmes in place. RMS 
expects to achieve revenue growth in the 
high to mid-single digits, a slight decline from 
the trend of recent years, as it focuses its sales 
efforts on preparing for the new generation 
of products. RMS is expected to deliver a 
slightly reduced margin of around 30% as 
investment increases ahead of the launch 
in 2014. 
dmg::information expects to drive double- 
digit organic growth as the portfolio of 
businesses continues to benefit from new 
product initiatives and stronger customer 
demand. The Education and Property 
businesses will continue to be key drivers  
of overall growth, with Energy expected  
to gather further momentum during the  
year. We expect operating margins to  
be maintained.
At dmg::events, our refocused portfolio is 
expected to deliver double-digit underlying 
growth and it will also benefit from two of the 
three major biennial events taking place this 
financial year. Margins are anticipated to be 
around 25%. 
Euromoney’s first quarter trading has started 
in line with expectations. The uncertainty  
over Europe remains, as does a solution to 
the pending US fiscal cliff. Meanwhile global 
financial institutions face the combined 
challenges of difficult markets, increased 
capital requirements and a tougher 
regulatory environment. Inevitably they  
have responded by cutting costs, particularly 
people, and exiting some parts of their 
business. The Euromoney board expects this 
challenging trading background to continue 
at least into the early part of 2013. 
Subscriptions account for half of Euromoney’s 
revenues and therefore provide some 
protection against weak markets in 2013,  
as does Euromoney’s reliance on emerging 
markets for more than a third of its revenues. 
However, the negative trends in advertising 
and delegate revenues in the last quarter are 
expected to continue into the first quarter of 
financial year 2013, although the outlook for 
event sponsorship is more positive.
Within A&N Media, national advertising 
revenue at Associated in the first seven weeks 
of the year was down 5% on last year, with 
digital continuing to grow strongly, but 
visibility remaining limited on print advertising. 
Overall, Associated expects to achieve 
broadly stable revenues in the year, with  
cost efficiency helping to maintain operating 
margins at around 9%.
For the Group as a whole, we will continue  
to invest in order to secure future growth and 
ensure that our financial and talent resources 
are appropriately managed. My colleagues 
and I remain confident that DMGT is well 
placed for 2013 and beyond.
Martin Morgan
Chief Executive
