 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
extended our major liquid milk contract with 
Sainsbury’s through to 2017 and reduced our 
exposure to less profitable contracts. 
 Last year we set a medium-term target 
of a 3% return on sales for this business. 
Despite the additional support we provided 
to our farmers in the year, we have made 
some progress towards our target. Second 
half margins, which are usually higher than 
those in the first half, rose to 1.7%.
St Hubert
It was not an easy decision to sell St 
Hubert. This was a strong business that 
had performed extremely well under 
Dairy Crest’s ownership and had made a 
significant contribution to the profitability of 
the business. However it did not provide 
the platform for further expansion into 
continental Europe that we anticipated.
 The successful disposal of St Hubert 
has reduced significantly the Group’s 
gearing. Following the sale, our year end net 
debt is at its lowest level since 2000. This 
strong position has allowed us to reduce our 
exposure to the pension fund by making a 
one-off contribution of £40 million subsequent 
to the year end and provides us with exciting 
opportunities to invest for growth.
Market background
The year has seen generally lower food 
consumption reflecting fragile consumer 
confidence. 
 Changes elsewhere in the market place 
have left us as the largest UK-owned dairy 
foods company. We are proud to be in this 
position and recognise the onus it places 
on us to provide leadership to the UK dairy 
sector. We have fulfilled this role by being the 
first major milk buyer to fully implement the 
Government’s voluntary code of practice for 
milk supply contracts and by introducing a 
formula based milk purchasing contract. We 
Chief Executive’s review
Summary
This has been an important 
year in the history of Dairy 
Crest. The transformational sale 
of our French spreads 
business, St Hubert, resulted in 
proceeds of £341 million and 
generated a post-tax profit of 
£47 .7 million. This sale and 
subsequent reorganisation of 
our balance sheet leaves us 
well placed to meet the 
challenges of the tough 
consumer environment and to 
invest in growth in the UK. 
Taken together our four key brands have 
increased their value market share. This 
is a solid performance and reflects our 
consistent strategic focus on brand equity 
and innovation.
 A sustainable supply of milk is of vital 
importance to Dairy Crest. In the face of 
some of the most challenging weather 
ever experienced by our farmers, and 
higher feed costs that have put pressure 
on their businesses, we were first to adopt 
a government-sponsored voluntary code 
of practice. In addition, we increased 
the milk prices we paid to farmers and 
introduced a ground-breaking contract 
which allowed them to opt for a formulaic 
milk price mechanism that provides greater 
transparency and reduces volatility.
 Higher farmgate milk prices have 
put pressure on our Dairies business. 
Nevertheless we have made progress in 
rebuilding profitability. We have completed our 
three-year £75 million investment programme; 
closed two dairies; driven down costs; 
are also taking the lead in calling for clearer 
country of origin labelling for dairy products 
so that British consumers can support 
British farmers.
 Looking forward we are hoping for a 
more benign climate for farming. However 
we expect consumers to remain cautious 
and demand to remain subdued.
Long-term strategy
We remain clear that our long-
term strategy to grow branded 
and added value sales, become 
more efficient, reduce risk and 
improve the quality of our 
earnings and make value-
enhancing acquisitions and 
disposals is the right one for the 
business. We have made good 
progress with the execution of 
this strategy during the last year. 
The rationalisation of our Dairies business, 
which has involved a three year programme 
of investment in three key dairies and the 
closure of the Fenstanton and Aintree 
dairies as well as 28 distribution depots, 
demonstrates our determination to create 
a sustainable business. We retained 
our contract to supply liquid milk to 
Sainsbury’s through to 2017 in the face 
of fierce competition and new processing 
capacity coming on stream elsewhere in 
the dairy sector. This was a good result and 
vindicates the difficult decisions we have 
made in this part of our business.
 The work we have done over recent 
years to focus the business and remove 
complexity has allowed us to initiate a 
reorganisation into one management and 
operating structure. The new structure is 
focused on consumer-driven growth with 
an integrated supply chain and is consistent 
with our long-term strategy to build added 
value sales and drive efficiencies.
 Cutting costs is an embedded part of 
our strategy and cost reductions have been 
important in achieving our targets this year. 
We maintained our record of implementing 
cost saving initiatives of at least £20 million 
per annum, achieving £23 million in the year. 
Our employees, including Board members 
and senior management, have contributed 
by accepting below-inflation pay increases. 
 In addition to the initiatives in our Dairies 
business and our reorganisation into one 
structure, we are also consolidating our two 
British spreads manufacturing facilities onto 
one site as we target a further £20 million 
of savings in the new financial year. These 
efficiency measures help us to support our 
key brands, meet profit expectations and 
pay our farmers more.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 15
Trading performance and  
financial summary
A solid performance from our 
four key brands, Cathedral City, 
Clover, Country Life and FRijj, 
particularly in the first half of the 
year, coupled with an 
accelerated programme of 
efficiency measures, resulted in 
a strong trading performance 
and we delivered results for the 
year in line with our expectations.
As the table above shows, total revenue 
from our four key brands is flat year on 
year with Cathedral City and FRijj growth 
being offset by lower Clover and Country 
Life sales. Retail sales of these brands as 
measured by Nielsen have grown in total 
by 3% and Cathedral City, Clover and 
Country Life have all grown market share. 
Although FRijj has lost market share in the 
face of strong competition from new brands 
introduced by competitors, its own growth 
reflects the expansion of the overall market.
 We continue to invest behind our key 
brands and are committed to their ongoing 
success. Our market-leading cheddar 
brand, Cathedral City, goes from strength 
to strength and has become one of the 
UK’s major food brands. In 2012 it was 
the only food brand voted into the top ten 
of YouGov’s Brand Index, alongside BBC 
iPlayer, John Lewis and Amazon. 
 New products launched in the last few 
years such as FRijj The Incredible, Chedds 
and Cathedral City Selections contributed to 
this performance and we continue to focus 
on bringing new products to the market. 
This year around 5% of our total revenue 
and 9% of our key brand revenue has come 
from products introduced in the last three 
years. We have an ambitious target of 10% 
for such sales which we achieved last year 
but have missed this year as new products 
introduced three years ago dropped out of 
the calculation.
 Adjusted Group profit before tax 
increased by 7% to £50.6 million (2012: 
£47.5 million). Adjusted basic earnings per 
share increased by 3% to 29.9 pence (2012: 
28.9 pence). 
 Group net debt at 31 March 2013 was 
£60 million (2012: £336 million), principally 
reflecting the proceeds from the sale of  
St Hubert.
Future prospects
We believe that we can generate profit 
growth in all three of our product categories 
over the medium term. We believe we can 
continue to grow sales and profits in our 
cheese business; that the consolidation of 
our spreads manufacturing footprint onto 
one site will improve the profitability of that 
business; and that our Dairies business will 
continue to benefit from the work we are 
doing to move towards our medium-term 
target of 3% return on sales.
 In addition, the post year end debt 
restructure will result in lower interest 
charges in the future. 
 We are focused on generating cash 
from the business as well as growing profits, 
albeit we expect net debt to rise in the year 
ending 31 March 2014 as a result of our 
one-off cash contribution to the pension 
fund and investment in our new Spreads 
manufacturing facility. 
 Once the Spreads project is completed 
we will have well-invested, modern facilities 
across our business and we would expect 
capital expenditure in the existing business 
to fall back towards the level of annual 
depreciation. We will also continue to sell 
properties we no longer require and, in the 
absence of acquisitions or internal investment 
in new growth opportunities, would expect 
net debt to fall after 2013/14.
 Our strong financial position and our 
confidence that we can generate cash from 
our existing product categories means we 
have the capability to invest in attractive 
growth opportunities, either internally or 
through acquisition.
 We are excited about an opportunity 
to increase profits from whey, a by-product 
of the cheese manufacturing process. At 
present we manufacture whey powder which 
is mainly sold to food manufacturers, but we 
believe there now may be an opportunity to 
add greater value to our high quality whey 
stream and enter other, more attractive 
markets. A project is underway to scope  
the opportunity.
Current trading
The current financial year has started in line 
with our expectations. We have announced 
higher milk prices for our farmers but have 
demonstrated in the past that we can do 
this without damaging profitability. Key to 
achieving this is the ongoing implementation 
of our strategy to reduce controllable costs 
and we are again on track to meet our 
targeted £20 million saving during the year.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
22 May 2013
Overview
Brand Market D air y C r e s t   
sales growth*
Market statistics**
Brand growth Market growth
UK cheese +3% +5% +2%
UK butter, 
spreads, margarine
-5% -1% -3%
UK butter, 
spreads, margarine
-3% +1% -3%
Flavoured milk +5% +5% +10%
Total –% +3%
* Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2013 v 12 months to 31 March 2012  ** Nielsen data 52 weeks to 30 March 2013
