 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 13
Chairman’s statement
we operate. Balancing these groups’ different 
interests is never easy, especially at times 
when the need to make change is at its 
greatest, but the clarity provided by our Vision 
and Values helps us make the right decisions. 
Corporate responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business and has 
demonstrated its commitment to corporate 
responsibility by improving its Business in 
the Community rating from Gold to Platinum 
Big Tick in the year, the only food business 
to achieve this prestigious ranking. We are 
also delighted to have been shortlisted to 
be Business in the Community’s Company 
of the Year 2013. During the year we 
have focused our corporate responsibility 
commitments on 40 pledges, making it 
easier to align our corporate responsibility 
and commercial strategies. 
Employee, Board and other senior 
management changes
The transformation overseen by the Board 
has resulted in a smaller workforce which 
has reduced by around 20% over the 
year. As a responsible employer, we have 
endeavoured to support people who have 
left the business as best we can. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank all of them 
and all of the people who continue to work 
for Dairy Crest directly or indirectly for the 
contribution they have made to the success 
of the Group.
 On 23 May 2013, after nearly ten years 
as Finance Director, Alastair Murray will 
leave to pursue other business interests. In 
his time with Dairy Crest, Alastair has been 
a Finance Director of the highest quality 
with an excellent reputation both within the 
business and outside. He leaves Dairy Crest 
with our very best wishes for the future. 
 Alastair’s successor as Finance Director 
is Tom Atherton who has been Dairy Crest’s 
Director of Financial Control for the past four 
Against the background of a trading 
environment which remained extremely 
challenging, this was a transformational year 
for Dairy Crest. The Board has overseen 
the sale of our French spreads business, 
St Hubert; a rationalisation of our Dairies 
business; a reorganisation of our head office 
and support functions; and the introduction 
of a ground-breaking milk supply contract 
which initiated a new relationship between 
the business and its supplying dairy farmers.
 At the same time, in line with our 
established long-term strategy, we have 
continued to support our key brands and 
drive costs out of the business.
 We finish the year in a much improved 
financial position and with a clear plan 
for growth which will benefit everyone 
associated with the business.
Well-established Vision and Values 
The Group’s well-established Vision and 
Values continue to provide the Board with a 
framework in which to operate. They reflect 
the fact that consumers come first for Dairy 
Crest and that we are well aware of our 
links to rural Britain and the responsibility 
we have to our farmers, our employees, our 
franchisees and the communities in which 
years and has worked for Dairy Crest for 
over seven years in total. 
 In addition, Toby Brinsmead, who was 
Managing Director of the Dairies business 
before we reorganised into a unified 
structure, left the business earlier this month. 
I thank him for all he has done, in particular 
for his important work in creating a more 
focused Dairies business.
Increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 15.0 pence per share, making a full year 
dividend of 20.7 pence, up 1.5% from last 
year. This dividend is covered 1.4 times by 
adjusted basic earnings per share. 
 The reorganisation of our balance 
sheet since the year end will lower interest 
charges and result in an improved dividend 
cover in the future. The Board has reviewed 
its dividend policy and, given the Group’s 
improved cash position, is of the view that, 
going forward, the current progressive 
dividend policy should be maintained and the 
target cover range should be 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Summary
We have made significant progress this 
year through disciplined execution of our 
strategy. Dairy Crest is now a simpler, more 
focused business which is well positioned 
to generate growth and good returns for 
shareholders.
Anthony Fry Chairman
22 May 2013
Overview
Ongoing growth for Cathedral City 
ahead of market
Clover and Country Life both gained 
market share
Innovation driving added value sales: 
5% of total revenue and 9% of key 
brand revenue generated from products 
introduced in the last three years
Continued focus on costs: £23 million 
annualised cost savings delivered in 
2012/13, with a further £20 million 
identified for 2013/14 
BITC Platinum Big Tick Award reflects 
ongoing strong Corporate Responsibility 
commitment
Adjusted profit before tax is up 7%  
to £50.6 million
Year end net debt is down 82%  
to £60 million
Post year end restructuring of  
balance sheet reduces future  
interest charges
Post year end additional £40 million  
cash contribution to the pension  
fund reduces exposure
Proposed final dividend is up 2%
Successful sale of St Hubert 
has refocused the business 
on the UK
Process is underway to move 
to one business structure 
focusing on consumer driven 
growth and an integrated 
supply chain
Innovative new milk price 
formula introduced to  
help farmers and sustain 
milk supply
Operating highlights Financial highlights Strategic highlights
