 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 11
ACTinG CHAiRmAn’S STATemenT
Living by our Vision and Values
The Board fully recognises the importance 
of corporate governance in underpinning 
the integrity and performance of the 
business. It is acutely aware of Dairy 
Crest’s responsibilities to the farmers 
who supply us with milk, our employees 
and franchisees, our pensioners, the 
communities in which we operate and 
our shareholders. We use the framework 
provided by our Vision and Values to 
balance the different interests of these 
groups. This has served us well in the past 
and continues to underpin everything we 
do today.
A simpler, more financially robust 
business 
Last year’s transformational sale of our 
French spreads business, St Hubert, made 
Dairy Crest a simpler, more financially 
robust business and provided a strong 
base for future growth. By continuing to 
execute our long term strategy of growing 
our key brands and other added value 
sales and of reducing our costs we have 
continued to strengthen our business.
 The pleasing financial results for the 
year ended 31 March 2014, delivered 
against the backdrop of a trading 
environment that remains challenging, 
demonstrate that the transformed 
business can deliver improving returns 
for shareholders.
 We have chosen not to make 
any significant acquisitions since the 
disposal of St Hubert. We gave thorough 
consideration to doing so but to date we 
have not identified any opportunities which 
could provide the attractive returns which 
we can achieve by continuing to invest for 
growth in our existing business. The Board 
believes that choosing to invest in projects 
such as demineralised whey production 
provides a better route to profitable growth 
and has lower execution risk. Entering the 
demineralised whey powder market will 
also allow us to access new markets and 
should contribute to increased stability.
It is with sadness that, in my 
current role of Acting 
Chairman, I am delivering this 
year’s statement on behalf of 
our Chairman, Anthony Fry, 
who is currently away from the 
business for health reasons.
 Anthony has led Dairy 
Crest’s transformation with 
great skill over the last four 
years and our thoughts are 
with him and his family at this 
time. We wish him a full and 
fast recovery.
Corporate responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business that 
demonstrates its commitment to corporate 
responsibility in many ways. This has been 
recognised by Business in the Community, 
including coming second in its Company 
of the Year competition last year. This year 
we have been awarded 4.5 stars by BITC 
and are its highest ranked business in 
the UK.
A stable board
Other than the appointment of Tom 
Atherton as Group Finance Director from 
23 May 2013, there have been no Board 
changes or Management Board changes 
during the year. 
increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 15.4 pence per share, making 
a full year dividend of 21.3 pence per 
share, up 2.9% from last year. This 
dividend is covered 1.9 times by adjusted 
basic earnings per share, up from 1.4 last 
year. Looking beyond this year we propose 
to maintain our progressive dividend 
policy within a target cover range of 1.5 to 
2.5 times.
Summary
The year ended 31 March 2014 was 
a good one for Dairy Crest. We have 
consolidated the significant changes we 
made last year and are benefiting from 
operating as one business. Good progress 
is being made with our demineralised 
whey project which will provide increased 
stability and profit growth.
•	On-going growth for Cathedral City 
ahead of market 
•	Continued focus on costs: £25 
million annualised cost savings 
delivered in 2013/14, with a further 
£20 million identified for 2014/15 
•	Strong Corporate Responsibility 
commitment: highest UK ranked 
business by BITC
•	Adjusted profit before tax up 31% to 
£65.3 million, including higher profits 
from sale of surplus properties 
•	Year end net debt at £142 million 
leaves gearing within targeted range 
at 1.3 
•	Proposed final dividend payment up 
3% to 15.4p
•	Reorganised into one business 
structure 
•	Demineralised whey project on 
track to enhance annual profits from 
2015/16 by £5 million – in exclusive 
talks with one customer 
•	Move to a single spreads 
manufacturing facility nearing 
completion 
•	Reduced pension scheme 
contributions from 2014/15
o perating highlights Financial highlights Strategic highlights
Strategic report
Richard macdonald Acting Chairman
21 May 2014
