 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
The rationalisation of our butter and 
spreads manufacturing onto one well-
invested site at Kirkby, Merseyside is 
nearing completion and our plan to close 
our factory in Crudgington is progressing.
 In parallel to the continued 
strengthening of our existing operations 
we have initiated a major project to add 
value to the whey we produce as a 
by-product of cheese manufacturing. In 
total we are investing £45 million at our 
cheese creamery at Davidstow, Cornwall 
to allow us to manufacture demineralised 
whey powder which we expect to boost 
annual profits by around £5 million from 
2015/16. We are in the process of agreeing 
a contract with an exclusive customer 
which is already well established in the 
appropriate markets. The customer will 
also provide technical advice as the 
project moves forward. 
 Adjusted Group profit before tax 
increased by 31% to £65.3 million (2013: 
£49.7 million). Adjusted basic earnings per 
share increased by 39% to 40.8 pence 
(2013: 29.4 pence). Key factors behind 
the increase in adjusted Group profit 
were higher profits from selling surplus 
properties, which increased by £10.5 
million, and lower interest costs which 
reduced by £8.8 million. 
 Exceptional costs fell sharply in the 
year from £56.5 million in the year ended 
31 March 2013 to £10.4 million in the 
year ended 31 March 2014 reflecting the 
reduced level of restructuring across the 
business.
 Group net debt at 31 March 2014 
was £142 million, up from £60 million at 
31 March 2013, but significantly lower 
than at 31 March 2012, prior to the sale 
of St Hubert, when it was £336 million. 
Net debt fell significantly in the second 
half of the year. Significant factors in the 
increase from 31 March 2013 were one-
off payments resulting from the sale of 
St Hubert to the pension scheme and 
bondholders which together totalled £49 
million. As noted above, we also invested 
significantly at Kirkby and Davidstow.
CHieF exeCUTiVe’S ReVieW
I start my review by echoing the thoughts of Richard Macdonald, 
our Acting Chairman, regarding Anthony Fry, our Chairman. 
Everyone in Dairy Crest wishes Anthony a successful recovery. 
His guidance and inspiration are missed.
Summary
The year ended 31 March 2014 was one of consolidation for Dairy 
Crest. Following the transformational sale of our French spreads 
business, St Hubert, last year we have completed our 
reorganisation into one business structure and are seeing the 
benefit of this project in the form of greater focus on consumers 
and a more integrated supply chain. This has also helped in our 
constant drive to reduce costs. Our largest brand, Cathedral City, 
continues to grow strongly.
market background
The year has seen an on-going decline 
in food sales by the major retailers, our 
principal customers. They continue 
to be intensely competitive and liquid 
milk in particular remains a key product 
where they are seeking to offer value to 
consumers. In this environment it has 
been difficult to pass higher input costs 
onto our customers and this emphasises 
the importance of our own cost reduction 
initiatives.
 Towards the end of the year most 
major retailers chose to reduce the price 
at which they sell milk to consumers. This 
had the effect of further increasing the gap 
between these prices and those which 
we charge our residential customers. We 
expect this to accelerate the downward 
trend in our residential sales.
 The background on the supply side 
is very different. UK milk production is 
buoyant and dairy farmer confidence 
high. We remain committed to paying fair, 
market related prices to the dairy farmers 
who supply us with milk. The milk prices 
we pay our farmers increased by 8% over 
the year ended 31 March 2014 and we 
continue to work with our direct suppliers 
to offer them a choice of milk supply 
contracts. These include those with prices 
determined by formulas, which allow them 
to optimise their production. We have 
broadly maintained our milk purchase 
prices since the year end although market 
prices are now starting to fall. 
 Looking ahead, European milk supply 
is likely to increase after the abolition of 
production quotas from April 2015. UK 
production, which has been below the 
available quota for over a decade, is 
unlikely to be affected by this change. 
Consumer preferences and the economics 
of milk transportation make it unlikely that 
liquid milk will be imported into the UK. It 
is possible that some additional cheese 
produced in Ireland, for example, may 
be exported to the UK but other global 
markets may well be more attractive. If 
more cheese was to be imported into the 
UK it could put downward pressure on 
commodity cheese prices and farmgate 
milk prices. However, we anticipate that 
our market-leading Cathedral City brand, 
will continue to perform strongly.
branded sales
We have continued to support our four key 
brands, Cathedral City, Clover, Country 
Life and FRijj. As the table shows, total 
sales of these brands have grown by 
4% this year. Cathedral City continued 
its strong performance and again 
significantly outperformed the market. It is 
now Britain’s 18th largest grocery brand 
(Source: The Grocer, March 2014).  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 13
In the butters and spreads market, which 
is declining, Clover’s market share reduced 
slightly. However, Country Life spreadable 
grew share and outperformed its major 
spreadable rivals. Country Life block butter 
sales fell as we reduced promotions due 
to higher cream input costs. 
 Over the year as a whole FRijj sales 
fell by 4%. However, FRijj sales rebounded 
strongly in the second half following the 
upgrade of our production facilities in the 
first half.
 Innovation is key to the success of 
these brands. We have an ambitious 
target that 10% of our sales will come 
from products introduced in the last 
three years. This year around 4% of our 
total revenue and 7% of our key brand 
revenue has come from such sales. This 
is a key target as we continue to move our 
focus to a consumer driven, demand led 
business. To support this we are building a 
new innovation centre in partnership with 
Harper Adams University, Shropshire.
Cost cutting
Cost reduction remains an important 
part of our strategy. We have made good 
progress to improve efficiency across 
the business. Cost reduction projects 
initiated in the year have delivered annual 
benefits of £25 million, ahead of our £20 
million target. We have also continued 
to benefit from work done in previous 
years. The greatest cost savings this 
year have arisen from the reorganisation 
of the business into ‘One Dairy Crest’. 
Next year we expect to benefit from 
lower spreads manufacturing costs as a 
result of the consolidation of our spreads 
manufacturing into Kirkby as well as lower 
milk distribution costs.
Future prospects
The current trading environment is 
challenging. However, the strength of our 
key brands and our proven ability to cut 
costs and drive efficiencies mean that we 
remain confident that we can generate 
profit growth in all three of our product 
groups over the medium term. Additional 
profit growth will come from our project 
to add value to the whey stream at 
Davidstow, which is on track.
 Our net debt is comfortably within our 
targeted range and we expect to be able 
to reduce it further in the future as capital 
expenditure on our existing business 
falls back towards depreciation and we 
continue to sell surplus properties. Debt 
reduction will also be supported by the 
reduction in our annual contributions 
to the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund 
from £20 million to £13 million for the next 
two years.
brand market Dairy Crest 
sales growth*
market statistics**
      Brand growth Market growth
  Cheese
+12% +10%
unchanged
 
Butters, spreads, 
margarine
-6% -6% -4%
 
Butters, spreads, 
margarine
-4% -7% -4%
  Ready to drink 
flavoured milk
-4%
unchanged
+16%
Total
 
+4% +3%
 
* Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31 March 2014 v 12 months to 31 March 2013  ** IRI data 52 weeks to 29 March 2014
Strategic report
4% 
Sales growth of 
four key brands
8% 
Increase in milk 
price paid to 
our farmers
39%
Increase in 
Adjusted basic 
earnings per 
share
31 % 
Increase in 
Adjusted Group 
profit before tax
mark Allen Chief Executive
21 May 2014
