 Introduction and Strategy
DMGT has delivered another year of strong 
performance with continued growth from 
the B2B companies and excellent profit 
performance from consumer media. 
Strong organic growth from investment 
and innovation and active portfolio 
management have ensured the effective 
use of shareholders’ capital. 
DMGT has pursued a consistent strategy 
of growing its B2B companies, developing 
its consumer businesses and diversifying 
internationally into high-growth markets. 
We measure the success of this strategy 
through our key performance indicators 
. There is an update on how these 
have progressed over the past year on 
pages 14 and 15 of the Strategic Report. 
The performance over the past year has 
been encouraging and with our stronger 
balance sheet we face the future with 
increasing confidence. 
Financial performance
DMGT has delivered another year of strong 
performance in 2014. Group underlying 
revenues rose by 5% and underlying 
operating profit increased by 15%, at an 
operating margin of 17%. Although our 
reported results have been negatively 
impacted by the strength of the British 
pound against the US dollar, we are 
pleased to report that the adjusted profit 
before tax and earnings per share was 
in line with market expectations. Further 
information can be found in the Financial 
Review (pages 26 to 29). 
Our performance in the year reflects good 
growth from the B2B operations and an 
excellent profit performance from the 
consumer media business, dmg media. 
The Group has delivered strong cash flows 
and executed successful disposals. As a 
result the year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio 
(1.5 times) was comfortably below the 
Group’s preferred upper limit of around 
2.0 times. DMGT’s increased financial 
strength has enabled the Group to invest 
in our businesses, make acquisitions, 
conclude the share buy-back programme 
and early debt repayment, as well as 
increase the dividend. 
In March we took the decision to postpone 
the launch of RMS(one), the real-time 
software as a service risk management 
platform being developed by RMS. 
The principal reasons were that product 
performance was unsatisfactory and 
that it had become clear that more 
development was required to meet 
customer expectations. A thorough 
review of the product’s design was carried 
out and based on a new simplified 
architecture, and one which will utilise 
a range of the latest technologies, the 
launch is now planned for late 2015. 
We regret the failure to deliver RMS(one) 
in accordance with the original timetable 
and the impact that this has had.
This Strategic Report sets out our Group 
strategy and objectives and an overview of 
performance. Further information on each 
of our operating businesses can be found 
on pages 16 to 25.
In the Financial Review (pages 26 to 29), 
Stephen Daintith, Finance Director, 
describes our earnings performance in 
detail. Our principal risks and the steps 
we take to mitigate them are set out on 
pages 30 to 33.
Social, environmental and community 
information is set out in our Corporate 
Responsibility Review on pages 35 to 37. 
Our approach to governance can be 
found in the Directors’ Report commencing 
on page 40.
Strategic ambition
Over the past five years, DMGT has 
transformed into a more focused B2B 
information and consumer media group, 
generating growing underlying revenues 
and sustainable profits. This transformation 
has been delivered through:
• growing our B2B companies with organic 
growth enhanced by both acquisitions 
and investment;
• developing our consumer media 
businesses through the strength of the 
Mail brand across a range of consumer 
platforms and creating an effective 
and lower cost operating structure; and
•  diversifying internationally through our 
B2B operations and MailOnline.
Our consistent strategy is pursued by 
the Group’s operating businesses: RMS, 
dmg information, dmg events, Euromoney 
Institutional Investor (Euromoney) and 
dmg media. 
We aim to deliver compelling proprietary 
content for both specialist B2B and 
consumer audiences. Our customers 
trust us to deliver vital information when 
and where they need it. We recognise 
PERFORMING  
WELL AGAINST  
OUR OBJECTIVES
Martin Morgan 
Chief Executive
Represents a key performance 
indicator within the Annual Report
10
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW the opportunities in fast-changing 
markets where we are utilising digital 
innovation in an ever more interactive 
and real-time manner. 
Our devolved and diversified operating 
structure ensures that our entrepreneurial 
philosophy can thrive with effective 
strategic decision making resulting from 
business leaders being close to their 
markets. DMGT continues to derive 
significant advantage from its long-term 
family ownership, creating an environment 
in which strong sustainable returns can be 
achieved based on a prudent view of risk. 
Active portfolio management and strong 
financial discipline are important aspects 
of DMGT’s strengths with notable 
developments over the past year coming 
to fruition, as described throughout 
this report.
The significance of our B2B businesses has 
continued to increase. As a result of this we 
have decided to bring together the B2B 
companies, RMS, dmg information and 
dmg events, under a single division called 
dmg b2b. This will allow us to bring common 
management discipline to this area of 
DMGT as we have done with our consumer 
facing business through the previous 
formation of dmg media. 
Suresh Kavan is the Chief Executive Officer 
of dmg b2b and I am its Chairman. 
Our individual businesses, such as RMS, 
will continue to be run by their CEOs.  
We will also continue to report the financial 
results of each of the three areas within 
dmg b2b (RMS, dmg information, 
dmg events) individually.
Our strategic ambition Our strategic priorities
 Fostering innovation to deliver  
organic growth
 Maintaining rigorous and active 
portfolio management
 Driving international growth
 Using technology to enable growth
 Attracting and developing 
entrepreneurial talent
Growing our 
business to  
business  
companies
Developing  
our consumer 
media  
businesses
Diversifying 
internationally  
into high-growth 
markets
A global 
growth  
company
Strategic priorities 
In order to deliver on our strategic 
ambitions, we are focused on five strategic 
priorities, which are listed above and 
expanded on pages 12 and 13.
Fostering innovation to deliver 
organic growth
By creating an entrepreneurial 
environment in which innovation thrives, 
DMGT develops compelling content which 
is relevant and trusted. Our approach to 
fostering innovation is through organic 
investment and bolt-on acquisitions. 
During the year there have been a 
number of significant organic investments. 
These include RMS(one), a real-time risk 
management platform, with a programme 
of incremental deliverables to Joint 
Development Partner clients being 
planned for late 2015. Within dmg 
information, investment has been made 
at Genscape, Hobsons and Trepp with 
resultant new product launches such as 
Hobsons’ Naviance Curriculum, and 
Trepp’s Trepp Trade. Euromoney has 
delivered a new digital content platform, 
Delphi, which will enable faster growth at 
many of its businesses. On the consumer 
side, further investment has been made 
at MailOnline and Wowcher. 
Maintaining rigorous and active  
portfolio management
During the year there were a number 
of significant developments with both 
acquisitions and disposals being made. 
We are also increasingly taking influential 
minority stakes as a way of making new 
additions to the portfolio. Our overall aim is 
to create a balanced revenue stream by 
market sector and geography to ensure 
the resilience of the Group’s long-term 
growth trajectory by an effective use of 
shareholders’ capital.
DMGT investment preferences
Adjacent New Sector Organic Bolt-on
11
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Various acquisitions were made to expand 
the depth and breadth of our B2B activities. 
dmg information expanded its property 
information services through acquiring 
Decision Insight Information Group (DIIG), 
Genscape further developed its energy 
information services through acquiring 
the US-based Energytics, dmg events 
expanded its sector reach by acquiring 
Quartz Coatings, Euromoney acquired 
Infrastructure Journal and the Mining 
Investment Events Division of Summit 
Professional Networks (Mining Indaba) 
enhancing its product offering in the 
metals and mining sector. 
In October 2014 we disposed of Lewtan, 
part of dmg information. The business was 
sold to maintain our strategic priority to be 
a rigorous and active portfolio manager 
and to dispose of businesses when they 
have a higher value to another owner.
During the year, the transformation of 
dmg media has led to the disposal of 
Evenbase, the digital recruitment business, 
and a reduction in our stake in the 
Zoopla Property Group Plc (ZPG) through 
an Initial Public Offering. We are pleased 
with the return on capital achieved on 
both these businesses and we will retain 
our remaining c. 32% stake in ZPG for the 
foreseeable future. 
Influential stakes in businesses of strategic 
importance were made by Hobsons in iProf 
in India, by dmg information in Skymet, 
also in India, and Genscape’s investment 
in Petrotranz, which was increased to just 
over a 50% stake in November 2014. By 
using our expertise in developing young 
businesses, we believe we can build these 
initial stakes into valuable long-term growth 
opportunities. Further information on 
our joint ventures and associates can 
be found in the Financial Review on 
pages 26 to 29.
We retain a balanced capital allocation 
approach. We now have increased 
flexibility made possible by our 
strengthened balance sheet, to create 
shareholder value. While organic 
investment remains our first priority, 
supported by bolt-on acquisitions, we 
will also continue to identify targeted 
acquisitions in adjacent markets and new 
sectors. These investments will be balanced 
against delivering real dividend growth, 
pension fund contributions as well as further 
returns in the form of share and bond 
buy-backs. 
We have a consistent approach to 
regularly evaluating the strength of 
our existing portfolio as well as new 
opportunities which are summarised in 
DMGT’s investment criteria table on the left.
Driving international growth
Growth in new geographies and sectors 
is a long-term ambition and further 
progress was made during 2014. Our 
non-UK revenues now account for 47% 
of total revenues with 26% coming from 
North America and 21% from the Rest of 
the World and non-UK revenues grew at 
an underlying rate of 9%.
We are progressively establishing offices 
and investing in businesses across Asia, 
Africa and South America.
• RMS has established a sales office in 
Singapore and China to expand into 
the Pacific region, complementing its 
well-established business in Japan. 
• dmg information’s new regional offices in 
Singapore and New Delhi have brought 
a number of our operations together 
and are creating new momentum. 
• Genscape will be starting operations 
in Japan. 
• dmg events is expanding in India and 
South East Asia and its Energy division 
is establishing itself in Mexico and looking 
to expand its presence in this region.
• Entry into Africa is being led by exhibitions 
and conferences, in particular by dmg 
events in energy as well as Euromoney in 
the mining sector through its acquisition 
of Mining Indaba.
We remain confident that there is 
considerably more international growth 
potential to unlock over time.
Using technology to enable growth
Technology is a business enabler for our 
proprietary content through platform 
development or from exploiting device-
led opportunities. In the past year, there 
have been a range of new platform 
developments. For example, Hobsons’ 
“ Our customers trust us to deliver 
vital information when and 
where they need it.”
Martin Morgan, Chief Executive
MEETING DMGT’S 
INVESTMENT CRITERIA
We have a consistent and 
considered approach to 
investments. We look to 
invest in businesses which:
•  have the potential for 
high rates of organic 
growth;
•  are international 
in reach;
•  have innovative 
products, quality 
content and deep 
customer insight;
•  are market leaders;
•  have entrepreneurial 
and creative leadership;
•  can benefit from 
DMGT’s long-term 
perspective; and
•  meet our financial 
criteria.
12
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Radius and Euromoney’s Delphi which 
are creating new business opportunities. 
In the consumer media environment, 
understanding how technology can 
harness the value of scalable audiences 
through developing new apps for mobile 
devices and linking with social media are 
ongoing development areas for MailOnline 
and Wowcher. 
One way in which we measure our ability 
to harness technology has been through 
monitoring the proportion of our revenues 
from digital sources. In 2014, we have 
seen a further increase in the digital 
share of Group revenue to 46%  . 
The proportion of digital revenues is 
expected to continue to grow. 
Attracting and developing  
entrepreneurial talent 
Creating a culture where innovation 
thrives is vital in attracting and developing 
entrepreneurial talent. We believe that the 
quality of leadership will dictate the pace 
and success of the Group’s future growth. 
Our businesses continue to achieve 
external recognition with a range of 
awards over the past year reflecting the 
depth and strength of talent at DMGT. 
DMGT has established a strategy on how 
to recruit, retain and develop its talent 
to ensure ongoing success. One of the 
main initiatives has been the Leadership 
Development Programme which almost 
100 senior leaders have attended this year. 
It addresses the fundamentals of how 
technology, market dynamics, innovation 
and customer challenges can be 
harnessed. Hackathons, based in London 
and New York, were held to stimulate 
technical innovation. To reflect the growing 
importance of product management, 
the first project management workshop 
was held.
It is important to adapt our remuneration 
arrangements to reflect fast-moving 
market conditions and the Group’s 
longer-term investment horizon. Details of 
our approach to training, management 
and remuneration are set out in detail in 
the Corporate Responsibility Review 
(pages 35 to 37) and in the Remuneration 
Report (pages 51 to 73). 
Trends affecting DMGT
DMGT’s markets remain challenging, not 
only from an economic perspective but 
also due to the pace of technological 
change and patterns of consumption in 
both B2B and consumer environments. 
Technology is enabling businesses to 
innovate on faster cycles and often at 
lower cost than before, which is creating 
new opportunities. Demand for vertical 
specialities and the ability to analyse and 
use data in real-time on a scale previously 
unknown, is a powerful trend and one 
we intend to exploit. We believe that the 
quality and interpretation of data will 
become increasingly important and 
one that can be driven by harnessing 
technological innovation and by deeply 
understanding customer needs.
The continued exponential growth of the 
consumer internet economy linking to 
social media and accessing information 
across an ever-increasing number and 
variety of devices is an important trend 
and one which DMGT is already exploiting. 
We recognise that ongoing innovation 
will be required to maintain our strong 
market positions. 
More information on the trends affecting 
DMGT can be found on page 08 of the 
Strategic Report. 
Share price
The price of DMGT’s A Ordinary Non-Voting 
Shares (A Shares) has increased by 1% from 
£7.62 on 30 September 2013 to £7.68 on 
30 September 2014, compared to a 3% 
increase for the FTSE All-Share Index over 
the year.
Outlook
The Board remains confident that the 
Group has excellent long-term growth 
prospects. DMGT has created a diverse set 
of businesses which together provide a 
sustainable platform for long-term growth. 
The financial performance in 2015 will be 
adversely impacted by investment in 
RMS(one), one of dmg events’ largest 
events, Gastech, not occurring in the year 
and by the disposal of the Evenbase digital 
recruitment business during 2014.
Given our increased financial strength, 
we are in a position to capture growth 
opportunities through further investment 
and acquisitions. Our teams of talented 
entrepreneurs have the ability to navigate 
their way through challenging market 
conditions to exploit growth opportunities 
and deliver long-term shareholder value. 
DMGT’s outlook remains positive and we 
look forward to making further progress 
in 2015. 
Martin Morgan
Chief Executive
13
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
OVERVIEW FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
