 Financial review continued
12 DAISY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
Acquisition of the telecommunications division of
Redstone plc (“Redstone”)
On 28 August 2009, the Group acquired Redstone
for a cash consideration of £16.5 million. The
acquisition resulted in the recognition of goodwill
of £2.6 million and customer relationship intangible
assets of £15.2 million.
The division included the assets of Redstone plc’s
fixed line and mobile network business and the
shares of its wholly owned subsidiaries Symphony
Telecom Limited (which has interests in a number
of businesses in fixed line and mobile network
services provision) and Anglia Telecom
Centres Limited (which operated its mobile
distribution business).
Acquisition of Managed Communications Limited
(“MCL”)
On 6 February 2010, the Group purchased the
entire issued share capital of MCL for an estimated
consideration of £9.0 million. The consideration
consists of cash consideration of £6.4 million and
an anticipated earn-out of £2.6 million based on 
the earnings before interest and tax generated by
MCL during a twelve month post-completion 
earn-out period.
The acquisition resulted in the recognition of
goodwill of £2.8 million and customer relationship
intangible assets of £7.6 million.
MCL is a web based data products business
providing bonded DSL products, a lower cost
alternative to leased lines and ethernet.
Acquisition of BNS Telecom Group plc (“BNS”)
On 18 February 2010, the Company announced its
recommended cash offer for the entire issued share
capital of BNS including its principal subsidiaries,
BNS Telecom Limited and 3g Comms Limited. The
offer was made in compliance with the City Code
on Takeovers and Mergers, as BNS was listed on the
Alternative Investment Market until 1 June 2009.
BNS was acquired for a cash consideration of 
£10.6 million. The acquisition resulted in the
recognition of goodwill of £5.3 million and
customer relationship intangible assets of 
£16.2 million.
BNS is a voice over IP telecoms carrier and reseller
of fixed and mobile lines, minutes, data and
hardware and other value added services.
Acquisitions after the period end
On 22 April 2010 the Company acquired the 
entire issued share capital of Cole Robert & Co
Limited (“CRC”) for a consideration of £2.1 million,
of which £0.5 million is deferred subject to CRC
achieving gross profit targets in the six months
following acquisition. CRC will form part of the
wholesale division.
On 10 June 2010, the Group acquired the entire
issued share capital of Fone Logistics Limited (“FLL”)
for a cash consideration of £3.6 million. FLL will be
managed by Anglia Telecom, part of the mobile
distribution division.
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
It is difficult to compare reported results for 2010
and 2008 as a result of the significant acquisitions,
disposals and restructuring which has occurred
during these periods.
As a result of its intended disposal, the wireless
broadband business, Freedom4 Limited, which was
previously accounted for as a joint venture, has
been classified as held for sale within discontinued
operations. Consequently, the only item reported as
continuing operations in the year ended 
31 December 2008 was the costs of running the
Group’s holding company.
The entire Group’s continuing revenue recognised
in the current period occurred between 21 July
2009 and 31 March 2010.
The revenue and adjusted EBITDA (operating loss
before amortisation, depreciation, impairment of
fixed assets, net exceptional operating costs and
share based payments costs) from continuing
operations were £134.4 million and £11.0 million
respectively (year ended 31 December 2008: £nil
and £(3.4) million respectively). 
The operating loss from continuing operations was
£17.5 million compared to £5.0 million for the year
ended 31 December 2008.
Amortisation of intangible assets in the period was
£20.5 million (year ended 31 December 2008: £nil)
and relates primarily to the customer relationships
acquired from Daisy, Vialtus, ATC, Eurotel,
Redstone, BNS and MCL. These customer
relationships have been valued based on expected
future discounted cash flows and are being
amortised over periods from 3 to 7 years.
Depreciation for the period totalled £1.9 million
(year ended 31 December 2008: £nil) and
consists largely of the charges associated with 
the assets acquired as part of the Vialtus and
Daisy transactions.
