 Board of directors continued
16 DAISY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
LAURENCE BLACKALL
Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the audit committee and member of
the remuneration and nomination committees
Laurence Blackall has had a 30 year career in the
information, media and communication industries.
After an early career that included time at Virgin
and the SEMA Group, Laurence was appointed a
director of Frost & Sullivan, a vice-president of
McGraw Hill and CEO of AIM listed Internet
Technology Group, which he founded in 1995.
Laurence was also instrumental in the creation of
Pipex Communications plc (now Daisy Group plc).
He is also a non-executive director of AIM listed
Oakley Capital Investments Limited.
Laurence has an MA in marketing and currently
holds a number of directorships in public and
private UK companies.
IAN MCKENZIE
Non-Executive Director
Member of the remuneration and 
nomination committees
Ian McKenzie has spent more than 40 years in the
telecommunications and broadcast industry,
working in various international markets. He initially
worked with British Telecom in a number of senior
positions, leading divisions to successfully target
business and consumer markets with voice, data,
broadband and complex solution services, both in
the UK and Europe.
His final position with British Telecom was as chief
operating officer in the Asia Pacific Region. He then
joined Kingston Communications as chief operating
officer, which he left in 2002.
Ian then worked as an advisor and consultant 
for various private equity investors and took 
non-executive chairman roles with a number of
businesses, including Karneval Media, and was
executive chairman of Invitel in Hungary, both of
which have now been sold.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Ceské
Radiokomunikace in the Czech Republic, Multicom
Security AB in Sweden and GTS Central Europe. He
also works as a senior telecommunications advisor
to GMT Communications Partners LLP .
Ian brings with him a wealth of experience from the
telecommunications, media and broadcast sectors
targeting business, small-medium enterprises and
consumer markets.
IAN BUTCHER
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member of the audit committee
Ian Butcher was group finance director of The 
Go-Ahead Group plc, one of the UK’s leading
providers of passenger transport services operating
in the bus, rail and aviation services sectors,
between 1996 and 2007, taking a lead role in
transforming it into a well-respected FTSE 250
company. His work there led to Ian being voted
FTSE 250 and Overall UK FD of the Year in the 
CBI FD Excellence Awards in 2006.
Prior to Go-Ahead, Ian was group finance director
for Casket plc, the consumer products group,
between 1990 and 1995, overseeing its
rationalisation, successful turn-around and
subsequent growth through acquisition. Previous
experience includes a finance director role at
Anglia Oils Limited. Ian qualified as a chartered
accountant with KPMG where he stayed for 12 years
and during which time he worked extensively in the
corporate finance and restructuring fields.
Currently, Ian is also a non-executive director and
audit committee chairman of Redhall Group plc, the
engineering services business.
