 Overview
Chairman’s statement
14
Daisy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s  a an nd d  g go ov ve er rn na an nc ce e O Ov ve er rv vi ie ew w C Co on nt te en nt ts s F Fu ur rt th he er r  i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n F Fi in na an nc ci ia al ls s
Chairman’s statement
OVERVIEW
Daisy Group plc (“Daisy Group” or “the Group”) has
continued to develop over this year to be an industry-
leading provider of unified communications to the 
SME and mid-market business sector in the UK.
Once again, we have made solid progress and I thank our
employees for their contribution, continued hard work and
commitment. This past year, the Group has continued to
focus on operational efficiency as well as the integration
of previously-acquired businesses. Revenue has grown by
0.8%, from £348.6 million to £351.5 million and adjusted
EBITDA has been maintained at £56.3 million. Operating
losses calculated after charging amortisation of intangible
assets, depreciation, exceptional items and taking into
account share-based payment (credits)/costs have
increased to £16.8 million from £13.1 million principally
due to the increase in charges for amortisation of
intangible assets to £66.2 million (2012: £61.9 million).
Basic loss per share has increased from 3.46 pence to
6.38 pence and basic adjusted earnings per share have
reduced by 2.6% from 13.52 pence to 13.17 pence due to
increased finance charges in the year.
Of particular note has been the significant increase in
cash generation in the year with cash generated from
operations of £47.6 million (2012: £29.1 million) and free
cash flow of £38.6 million (2012: £28.6 million),
demonstrating the strong cash flow characteristics of
our business model.
ACQUISITIONS
During the year the Group acquired Worldwide Group
Holdings Limited (“WWG”) and The Net Crowd Limited
(“TNC”). These acquisitions increase our capabilities
and the range of products we can offer to customers as
we continue to reduce the proportion of legacy fixed line
services within the business. A total of £31.5 million in
cash has been committed on the two acquisitions
completed during the year.
Since the year end we have announced the acquisition
of Daisy Data Centre Solutions Limited (“DDCS”), which
had acquired the data centre assets and customer
relationships from the administrator of 2e2, for a
consideration of £7.5 million. This acquisition will
provide further scale and capability in the growing
areas of cloud and managed services and we look
forward to reporting on progress in the future.
FUNDING
We were very pleased to announce on 26 March 2013
that the Group had signed a new banking agreement
with a group of six banks which expires on 30 June 2016,
reflecting the confidence of the banks in our business
model. This makes available a £50.0 million term loan
and a £150.0 million revolving credit facility for the
Group, providing significant resources for future
acquisitions. These combined facilities of £200.0 million
replace the Group’s previous facilities of £140.0 million.
OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Group’s strategic acquisition programme, executed
over the past four years, has provided additional product
capability and reduced the dependence on fixed line
network services.
We continue to make operational improvements as we
integrate businesses acquired and invest in development
of our proprietary software platform to provide greater
business efficiency and benefits to customers. We will
continue to invest internally in addition to implementing
further acquisitions where we see strategic opportunities
to enhance value for our shareholders. D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s  a an nd d  g go ov ve er rn na an nc ce e O Ov ve er rv vi ie ew w C Co on nt te en nt ts s F Fu ur rt th he er r  i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n F Fi in na an nc ci ia al ls s
Directors  and  governance Overview Contents Further  information Financials Overview
Chairman’s statement
16
Daisy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s  a an nd d  g go ov ve er rn na an nc ce e O Ov ve er rv vi ie ew w C Co on nt te en nt ts s F Fu ur rt th he er r  i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n F Fi in na an nc ci ia al ls s
BOARD CHANGES
As previously announced, following almost three years
with the Group, Gareth Kirkwood stepped down from
the board with effect from 12 April 2012. Gareth left the
Group on 30 April 2012 to pursue other interests and
the board would like to thank Gareth for his
contribution and professionalism as Chief Operating
Officer of Daisy Group plc and wish him every success
in his future ventures.
DIVIDEND
In April we announced our intention to implement a
dividend policy and I am pleased to confirm that the
board is proposing a full-year dividend of 4.0p per
share. We also announced that we expected this
dividend to grow at a rate of 15% per annum for the
next two financial years. Subject to shareholder
approval at our Annual General Meeting on
17 September 2013, the final dividend will be payable
on 11 October 2013 to shareholders registered at the
close of business on 20 September 2013.
OUTLOOK
We believe that our strategy has created a strong base
from which we can continue to develop and we look
forward with confidence to delivering long-term value for
our shareholders. Whilst we remain mindful of current
macroeconomic headwinds, we look forward to the
coming year with cautious optimism.
Peter Dubens 
Executive Chairman
17 June 2013
“Of particular note has
been the significant
increase in cash
generation in the year
with cash generated
from operations of 
£47.6 million and 
free cash flow of 
£38.6 million
demonstrating the
strong cash flow
characteristics of our
business model”
