 Overview
Chairman’s statement
D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s  a an nd d  g go ov ve er rn na an nc ce e O Ov ve er rv vi ie ew w C Co on nt te en nt ts s F Fu ur rt th he er r  i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n F Fi in na an nc ci ia al ls s
12
Daisy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
OVERVIEW
This year has seen Daisy Group plc and its subsidiaries
(together “Daisy Group” or “the Group”) further bolster
its position as an industry-leading provider of IT
services and unified communications to the SME and
mid-market business sector in the UK. 
We are proud to have built a long-term, sustainable
business and I would like to thank our staff for their
continued support and hard work in making this
possible. During the year the Group has continued to
develop and enhance its product range through its
corporate acquisition strategy. Revenue has grown by
0.3%, from £351.5 million to £352.7 million and adjusted
EBITDA has been increased from £56.3 million to 
£57.9 million. Basic adjusted earnings per share have
increased by 6.1% from 13.05 pence to 13.85 pence. As a
result of increased exceptional costs associated with
the acquisition and integration activity, operating losses
calculated after charging amortisation of intangible
assets, depreciation, exceptional items and taking into
account share-based payment costs/(credits) have
increased to £17.9 million from £16.8 million. Basic loss
per share has reduced from 6.38 pence to 6.06 pence.
Whilst lower than in the previous year, cash generation
continues to be robust and representative of the 
strength of the Group’s business model. Cash generated
from operations in the year was £44.2 million (2013: 
£47.6 million) as a result of investment in working capital
associated with large managed service contracts and also
higher exceptional costs associated with acquisitions,
integration activity and property rationalisation. 
ACQUISITIONS
During the year the Group acquired Daisy Data Centre
Solutions Limited (“DDCS”), MoCo Holdings Limited
(“MoCo”), Indecs Computer Services Limited and Indecs
Computers Limited (together “Indecs”) and ABSE
Limited (“ABSE”). These acquisitions significantly
increase our capabilities and the range of products
available to our customers, whilst reducing reliance on
legacy fixed line business. Of particular note is the
addition of IT support services to the Daisy product
portfolio following the acquisition of Indecs, as well as
the increased data centre capacity now offered following
the acquisition of DDCS. A total of £35.3 million in 
cash has been paid out as consideration for the four
acquisitions completed during the year, with the
potential of a further £4.4 million to be paid over the
next two years dependent upon the trading performance
of the ABSE customers.
Since the year end we have acquired Layer 3 Advanced
Business Solutions Ltd (“Layer 3”), for an initial
consideration of £1.8 million. The acquisition will further
complement Daisy’s existing LAN and WiFi capability and
we look forward to reporting on progress in the future.
FUNDING
We would like to thank our group of six banks for their
continued support throughout the year. Net bank debt at
31 March 2014 was £111.3 million (2013: £81.2 million)
and at the year end the Group had unutilised bank
facilities of £40.0 million (2013: £80.0 million).
OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Group’s strategic acquisition programme, executed
over the past five years, has substantially broadened the
product range offered to our customers and reduced the
dependence on legacy fixed line network services.
We strive for continuous improvement and make
operational improvements as we integrate businesses
acquired and invest in the development of our
proprietary software platform to provide greater
business efficiency and benefits to customers. We will
continue to invest internally in addition to implementing
further acquisitions where we see strategic
opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders. Daisy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
13
Overview
Chairman’s statement
D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s  a an nd d  g go ov ve er rn na an nc ce e O Ov ve er rv vi ie ew w C Co on nt te en nt ts s F Fu ur rt th he er r  i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n F Fi in na an nc ci ia al ls s
Directors  and  governance Overview Contents Further  information Financials
DIVIDENDS AND BUYBACKS
Consistent with the policy announced last year, the
board is proposing a final dividend of 3.1 pence per
share, taking the full-year dividend to 4.6 pence per
share (2013: 4.0 pence per share). Subject to
shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on
16 September 2014, the final dividend will be payable on
17 October 2014 to shareholders registered at the close
of business on 26 September 2014. I am pleased to
confirm our intention to grow the dividend at a rate of
15% for the next financial year.
The board will also periodically consider the return of
surplus capital by way of share buybacks. The board’s
aim is to maintain an efficient capital structure whilst
also retaining access to available funds to support
accretive acquisitions. The board will seek a renewal of
the shareholder permission to carry out share buybacks
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
OUTLOOK
We remain focused on our approach of adding long-
term shareholder value through a strategy of both
organic growth and growth by acquisition, whilst taking
advantage of opportunities to provide more services to
our existing customers. Our strategy is delivering
results and we have built a strong business and have a
solid foundation from which to develop even further. 
Peter Dubens 
Executive Chairman
16 June 2014
“The board is proposing a
final dividend of 3.1 pence
per share, taking the full-
year dividend to 4.6 pence
per share”
