 Global sourcing
The supply chain model we are creating is one of the
fundamental strengths of our combined strategy as 
the Kesa Group. Our Hong Kong office is sourcing exciting 
and innovative new products and is working with quality-
control engineers based in Shenzhen to ensure that they 
are reliable and safe and are manufactured under conditions
that respect human rights and environmental concerns.
Chief Executive’s review
8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Trading conditions have been tough in nearly all our core markets.
Sales growth has been led by increasing consumer demand for new
technologies, particularly flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and
DVD recorders. White goods sales have remained weak, but strong
actions taken on cost control and margin management reduced the
impact of this on profits.
In 2006 we again expect sales to be led by digital products, with the
World Cup accelerating the fast-growing sales of flat-screen televisions.
We do not anticipate any upturn in the white goods market, however
this is an area that we expect to improve with time. We will continue 
to focus on cost control and margin management whilst moving ahead
with investment in our existing businesses and developing the Darty
brand in new markets.
In keeping with our strategy of seeking long-term organic growth we
have developed the Darty brand in new markets, Italy and Switzerland.
We are now turning our attention towards Turkey, a country that is
currently experiencing strong economic growth, including a fast-growing
electricals market. Working with a local partner we have identified an
opportunity to become the first European multi-category specialist
electricals retailer in a market that already shows signs of consolidation.
In France, there has been very fast development of broadband internet
and ADSL technology which has created a new customer demand 
for combined telephone, TV and internet access packages. Darty will
respond to this demand with the launch of its own triple play
proposition, Darty Box.  
On a different note I would like to join the Chairman in welcoming
Simon Fox as he takes up his new position. I am very much looking
forward to working with Simon and I am sure that his experience and
abilities will enable him to make a very positive contribution to the 
future of the Kesa Group.
Jean-Noel Labroue, Chief Executive Around the Group
Sales demand across the Group has been led by the continuing
popularity of digital technologies, which is to a great extent being
triggered by price deflation. All our electrical businesses saw strong
year-on-year growth in products such as flat-screen televisions, MP3
players and DVD recorders. Sales of white goods were consistently
weak across Europe, particularly in the UK.
In a French electricals market which is estimated to have grown by 
2 per cent, Darty increased its market share in all categories except
mobile phones. Total sales growth at Darty was up by 3.3 per cent in
local currency, a rise of 1.5 per cent on a like-for-like basis. The strong
sales growth of new technologies had a negative effect on the gross
margin mix. Darty partially offset this decline in retail profits by making
productivity gains.
In the very tough trading conditions in the UK, Comet’s turnover 
fell by just 0.5 per cent, a drop of 3.6 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. Nevertheless, Comet still managed to maintain its overall market
share. The decline in profits was limited by swift action taken on the
cost base in the first half of the year. Average selling price also
improved in all of Comet’s key categories, reflecting the success of 
the company’s ongoing repositioning and the total store re-branding
programme launched during the second half of the year. Comet 
lost a small share of the price entry end of the market to the mass
merchandisers.
BUT’s total store sales grew by just 1.9 per cent in local currency
against a very difficult trading climate in the second half of the year. 
This represents a fall of 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Turnover 
for the in-house wholesale business grew by 15.0 per cent in local
currency, diluting BUT’s profitability overall.  
Progress has been made on the action plan we established to improve
profitability at BUT. The more contemporary furniture ranges have been
rolled out and a revised electrical offer is now being finalised. This will
better reflect BUT’s actual customer base. The store relay programme
started in the third quarter for the small- to mid-sized stores showed very
encouraging results and will be accelerated during 2006 and beyond. 
Total turnover at the other businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart,
Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland, grew by 16.9 per cent in local
currency, a rise of 3.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis. This encouraging
performance was helped by continuing like-for-like sales growth at
Vanden Borre and strong sales at BCC in the second half. Retail profit
in the more established businesses increased by 64.7 per cent to 
c8.3 million. Start up losses for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland
totalled c16.2 million.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 9 Chief Executive’s review
Darty
In a French market which is estimated to have grown by 2 per cent
during the period, Darty achieved market share gains in every
category except mobile phones.
Total turnover grew by 3.3 per cent in local currency with like-for-like
sales increasing by 1.5 per cent. This was helped by strong sales of
new technologies, particularly flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and
DVD recorders.
Price deflation continued to drive consumer demand for new
technologies, creating a negative effect on gross margin. Darty
managed to limit the fall in retail profits by achieving productivity gains. 
The warehouse rationalisation was successfully completed with the
opening of the new warehouse in Lyon and closure of the three existing
warehouses in Metz, Marseilles and Lyon. The national after-sales
service call centre network was also completed when the sixth and final
centre opened in the first half of the year.
Darty continued to invest in its store modernisation programme with 
the opening of 18 new format stores and the closure of four old ones.
Of these, six were new, five were relocations and seven were
refurbished/extended stores.
This brings the total number of new format stores to 42. Those trading in
their second and third years since opening continue to outperform the
rest of the portfolio on a like-for-like basis. During 2006, Darty will open
a further 17 new format stores including two new ones. Of the remainder,
three will be relocations and 12 will be refurbished/extended stores.  
The Darty website showed a year-on-year sales growth of 44 per cent.
Sales accelerated sharply during the second half following the launch 
of the re-vamped site. 
10 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Darty Box
The success of digital product convergence, and the very fast
development of broadband internet and ADSL technology in
France, has created a new customer demand for combined
telephone, TV and internet access packages. The complexity 
of this technology requires a high level of customer service 
and advice. With its strong reputation for service, Darty is
ideally positioned to address these new customer needs 
and will launch its own triple play proposition in the third
quarter of the year in association with a leading broadband
network operator. 
Darty Box
Television
Voice on IP
Broadband
internet Comet
In very difficult market conditions Comet delivered a turnover of
£1,529.8 million. This was down by 0.5 per cent on the previous 
year and by 3.6 per cent on a like-for like-basis. Sales were driven
by strong growth in flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and multi-
media, particularly laptops. Sales in white goods declined in line with
the general market trend.
E-comet sales continued to grow and increased by 20 per cent year 
on year.
In all its key categories Comet’s average selling price improved. 
This reflects the success of the ongoing repositioning and the total
store re-branding programme which was launched during the second
half of the year.
Comet quickly reacted to a downturn in the market in the early part 
of the year with a focused approach on cost control and margin
management. The integration of after-sales service and home delivery
continued. The National Customer Support Centre opened in Clevedon
in July and the fourth combined delivery and repair centre opened in
Wolverhampton in May.
The store modernisation programme saw the opening of one new
store, three relocations and seven refurbishments. Four of these are
now trading with a mezzanine floor. This brings the current total of new
format stores to 73. These stores generated 40 per cent of Comet’s
overall turnover. During the year two older stores were closed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 11
Store development
To limit the impact of rising rents and rates, Comet accelerated
its store modernisation programme with specific emphasis 
on rightsizing and mezzanine trading floors. Of the 12 new
refurbished and relocated stores to be completed during 2006,
most will include a trading mezzanine floor. A further two
stores will close. Chief Executive’s review
12 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Store relay programme
Five of the small- to mid-size stores which trade from 2,500 to
4,000 square metres of selling space, representing 80 per cent
of the portfolio, have already shown a promising increase in
sales. BUT will now focus its investment on these formats. 
Fifteen stores will be relayed by the end of 2006 and this process
is set to continue at an average of 15 a year from then on.
BUT
BUT’s total store turnover grew by 1.9 per cent in local currency 
but was down by 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Turnover at
the lower-margin in-house wholesale business grew by 15.0 per
cent in local currency, reducing overall profitability.
Following an encouraging first half, BUT’s store sales declined as 
a result of tough market conditions and an aggressive competitive
environment. This was combined with a drop in margin also due to
competitive pressures and inflationary costs. These factors led to 
a profit decline of 18.1 per cent.
The action plan put in place at the beginning of 2005 has
progressed. More efficient financial processes are now in place and
the centralisation of logistics will be completed when the fourth 
and final platform is opened in 2006. The new more contemporary
furniture ranges have been rolled out to all the stores. A revised
electricals offer which better reflects BUT’s customers needs is 
also being finalised. Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 13
Other businesses
The total turnover at our other businesses grew by 16.9 per cent 
in local currency. This represents 3.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
For the more established businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and
Datart, retail profit increased by 64.7 per cent to c8.3 million. Start-
up losses for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland totalled c16.2 million.
All three of our existing businesses made significant gains in market
share. Overall sales growth was helped by a good like-for-like
performance at Vanden Borre and particularly strong sales at BCC 
in the second half of the year, which reflected an upturn in Dutch
consumer confidence.
During the year, the two new ventures, Darty Italy and Darty
Switzerland, opened and received positive customer response and we
now have five stores in Italy and three in Switzerland. During 2006 four
more Darty stores will open in Italy and two in Switzerland. We expect
to break even on these projects in 2008/09 when both operations will
become self funding for future development.
New developments
Following this encouraging progress Kesa now intends to open stores
in Turkey using the Darty model and brand. Turkey has significant
economic growth potential and is at the very early stages of market
consolidation. We will be working with an experienced local partner and
will open a cluster of five stores around Istanbul by the end of 2007.
Start-up losses for the coming year are expected to be c3.0 million.
As always I would like to thank everyone in the Kesa Group for their
dedication and hard work over the past year. It is the efforts of all our
29,000 colleagues across the Group that makes the difference and on
behalf of the Board I express my thanks to all of them.
Jean-Noel Labroue Chief Executive
Store modernisation
The store modernisation programme
for the three established businesses;
Vanden Borre, BCC and Datart,
continued with the opening of nine
new stores, two relocations and five
refurbished/extended stores. In 2006,
eight new stores, three relocations
and seven refurbishments/extensions
will be completed while two old
stores will be closed. 
