 Chairman’s statement
6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Dear fellow shareholders
I would like to introduce the third Annual report for KESA Electricals.
2005 was a very tough year for electrical retailers across Europe.
There was no exception for Kesa and this is reflected in our lower
profits for the year. However, relative to their difficult markets, our
businesses put in creditable performances.
All our electrical businesses maintained or improved their market share,
our three small businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, made
useful improvements in their contributions and we made a good start 
in developing the Darty brand in new markets, opening stores in Italy
and Switzerland.
BUT had a difficult year but I am convinced we are taking the necessary
steps to turn the business round. We have strengthened the
management team and put more efficient financial processes in place
which will enable tighter financial control to be exercised. BUT will now
focus its investment on a store relay programme concentrating on the
small- to medium-sized stores that represent 80 per cent of its portfolio.
The Board has decided to recommend an increase in the final dividend
of 11 per cent to 9.15 pence bringing the total dividend for the year to
12.1 pence, an increase of 10 per cent over last year, which reflects the
strong cash generation and the Board’s confidence in the future of the
business. 
I remain encouraged by the performance we have achieved this year.
Kesa is by no means the only retailer facing challenging times in Europe
but we are helped by some key underlying strengths: 
Cash generation
At 1 February 2003 our net debt was £368 million under UK GAAP .
Opportunities for growth
At the time of the demerger we said that it was our intention
to investigate opportunities in selected European countries.
First we needed to prove the cash generative nature of our
business model by reducing our debt and to prove we could
make a success of our three small businesses before doing
anything further. This we have done. We have now started 
to develop the Darty brand in Italy and Switzerland and 
we have announced that we intend to open stores in Turkey
before the end of 2007.
David Newlands, Chairman Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 7
In the subsequent three years we have generated over £200 million of
free cash flow reducing our net debt under IFRS to £166 million. It has
enabled Kesa to create significant future growth opportunities and to
substantially increase our dividends. Substantial and sustainable free
cash flow generation is one of the most valuable measures for
shareholders.
Margin management
Managing a pan-European electrical retailing business successfully is 
a complex task in a period of very significant retail sales price deflation
combined with cost inflation, particularly property costs. Against this
background, given the price deflation we have experienced, it is a
testament to the skill and professionalism of our management team 
that we have achieved the margins we have.
We have already made considerable progress on the cost front through
centralised buying, rationalising warehousing, installing new computer
systems and there is more benefit to come in these areas.
The Darty brand
The Darty brand is a tremendous asset for Kesa. Darty’s well earned
reputation for service and quality is unsurpassed in France. We believe
that there is still more to be done to further leverage the brand. 
On another note, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome
Simon Fox, formerly Managing Director at Comet, who has become 
the Group’s Chief Operating Officer. Simon’s responsibilities will include
Comet, Vanden Borre, BCC, Datart and our growing E-business. 
His appointment adds further strength to our senior management 
team whilst allowing Jean-Noel Labroue to focus on our key French
businesses, Darty and BUT.
Outlook
Overall trading since the year end has improved but it is too early to
predict if this will continue. 
Once again we expect sales to be led by digital products and that the
World Cup will produce an increase in the already booming sales of 
flat-screen TVs. We will also see continuing price deflation across all 
our digital ranges. We are facing another year of fragile consumer
confidence, although we have seen early signs of an improvement in
France, and are not anticipating any significant upturn in the market 
for white goods.
These market conditions inevitably impact on profits. We are reducing
this impact by developing our specialist business model with new store
formats, productivity gains in logistics and leveraging our service
propositions. We will continue to focus on cash generation to drive our
investment in existing businesses whilst developing the Darty brand in
promising new markets.
Overall, we believe Kesa is a good business with significant growth
prospects over the medium term and management are working hard to
deliver them for the shareholders.
Once again my thanks go out to everyone in the Group for the effort
and dedication they have shown over the past year. I firmly believe that
KESA has both the ambition and ability to become Europe’s leading
specialist in electrical retail.
David Newlands Chairman
The Kesa Group
n Established businesses
n Developing businesses
n New markets
