 I am very pleased with the good progress we 
have made with our “4Ds” programme – to Drive 
trading, Digitalise Darty, Develop our brand and 
Deliver cost efficiency. I am also encouraged by 
the early results of our initiatives for future 
growth – the launch of our franchise business, 
the acquisition of Mistergooddeal.com and 
expanding our kitchen offer.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive
The “4Ds”
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Through the implementation of our “4Ds” programme, principally in 
France, we have seen overall market share gains, delivered positive 
like-for-like sales growth and improved our profit performance for  
the first time in three years.
The “4Ds”
Drive trading
During 2013, Darty held its first ever 
sale in the summer and we were 
pleased by our customers’ response. 
We also introduced a “Darty Days” 
campaign, where customers 
accumulated points through their 
expenditure to redeem discounts on 
future purchases. A number of VIP 
private shopping evenings were held  
in late November/early December. A 
further sale was held in January 2014, 
which, on the first day, generated a 
revenue increase of nearly one third, 
both in-store and online, compared to 
the same day last year, with Darty.com 
receiving nearly one million visits.
We have further built on our price 
promise by introducing a wider range 
of entry-price products, including  
a kitchen offer at €1,990 and “Les 
Immédiats”, a selected range of large 
products available to take direct from 
the store. These initiatives have 
delivered a positive impact on price 
image and store traffic.
We have launched a number of 
product-specific initiatives through the 
year, such as a voucher campaign on 
white goods post-Christmas before the 
January sale; interest-free credit offers 
on large appliances and kitchens and, 
more recently, a “Green Selection”, 
providing money-off vouchers on the 
trade-in of an old appliance against 
a new purchase.
1 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Our price competitiveness remains 
strong and, on a “service included” 
basis, we compare favourably against 
all store-based retailers and pure  
web players.
All these activities have arrested the 
footfall decline trend, up 1 per cent year 
on year, and improved the conversion 
ratio in stores by 20 basis points, 
helping to drive positive like-for-like 
sales of 2.8 per cent.
Digitalise Darty
We have a strong track record as  
a successful multi-channel retailer, 
consistently growing profitable 
web-generated sales. Multi-channel 
customers are growing steadily;  
they visit our stores and website  
more often; spend more with us; and 
buy from more categories of products 
than single-channel customers.
We are exploiting this opportunity 
further with greater use of technology 
to connect our website, stores, sales 
staff, delivery and after-sales teams. 
We have introduced award-winning 
“click and collect” lockers, which  
are currently being trialled in seven 
high-traffic stores. Customers are able 
to order and pay online and are issued 
with a web-generated collection code 
that enables them to collect their 
purchases from lockers positioned  
at the front of a store. This helps to 
increase store traffic and enables  
faster order fulfilment at lower cost.
During the year we saw an increase 
in visits to the website of over 8 
per cent, improved conversion ratio  
by ten basis points and an increase 
in the number of web orders collected  
in-store. We also increased our market 
share of overall web sales by 20 basis 
points to 10.6 per cent.
We have introduced award-winning “click and 
collect” lockers which are being trialled in seven 
high-traffic stores.
2
08   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Franchise stores
Darty is the market leader in France, with 70 per cent  
of consumers within a 30-minute drive time to a store.  
The remaining 30 per cent represent an opportunity  
to further exploit the existing infrastructure of our multi-
channel offer. Typically, these consumers will reside in 
smaller catchment areas, usually below 100,000 inhabitants, 
where it is uneconomic to open a typical Darty store.  
To address these smaller catchment areas we have 
established a franchise operation.
Following refurbishment investment by the franchisee  
the first store opened in early March 2014 in Challans,  
a 700 sqm store in a town of circa 20,000 inhabitants.  
A further three stores were opened in the year at Lannion, 
Bergerac and Montceau.
Franchise stores 
The potential over a four-year  
period is around 100 to 150 stores  
with an average store revenue  
of at least €3 million and retail  
contribution in line with the  
core business.
Initial trading is very encouraging.  
At the end of May we had opened  
a further four stores and expect to  
have a total of 30 stores open by  
the end of the current financial year.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   09 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Free Wi-Fi was introduced to a number 
of stores, and sales staff are being 
equipped with tablets that enable them 
to demonstrate extended ranges and 
services in real time to customers.  
It also allows the sales staff to show 
how our prices and services compare  
to our competitors. Fourteen stores 
were equipped by the end of the 
financial year and this will be rolled-out 
to around half the store portfolio by  
the end of the new financial year.
Develop our brand
We have been defending margins 
through better sourcing and growing 
our service revenues. Following action 
taken during the year, we now have 
one sourcing team for France that  
is building better partnerships with 
suppliers and greater frequency of 
co-branding with leading manufacturers. 
We continue to develop exclusive, 
own-label and licensed products where 
the margins can be significantly higher. 
As market leader we have increasing 
success and support from leading 
manufacturers in gaining access to 
exclusive products, with particular 
emphasis on being “first to market”  
for new products, as demonstrated by 
our leading position in the new vision 
technologies, OLED and Ultra HD.
We launched initiatives during the year 
to better integrate our market-leading 
services offer including a new extended 
warranties pricing structure. For 
example, these included a voucher 
scheme offered on selected product 
purchases to be redeemed against  
one of our service offers, such as  
TV installation.
We have introduced the first dedicated 
service desks for in-store repair and 
assistance of all multimedia products, 
“Atelier Darty”, into 15 stores, further 
strengthening Darty’s service image 
and helping to drive footfall. Initial 
customer response has been very 
favourable, with more immediate 
problem resolution for the majority  
of cases, so avoiding the need to send 
the product to a central service  
centre. The service also provides  
the opportunity to offer additional 
services and accessories.
During the year we introduced a wider choice of 
self-service product ranges. We also launched 
dedicated service desks “Atelier Darty” for in-store 
repair and assistance of all multimedia products.
3
10   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Integration
We have already made a start on the 
integration of Mistergooddeal.com with  
the collection of orders generated from its 
website already possible in some Darty stores.
We expect this to be a profitable channel 
by year two of ownership.
Mistergooddeal.com
Given its full service offer, Darty France has been less successful in 
taking market share and trading profitably in the entry price end of  
the market. Its market share in the first price quartile is lower than  
its overall market share for a particular product category.
To increase our share of the growing market for an entry price offer, 
we acquired Mistergooddeal.com on 31 March 2014. Mistergooddeal.com 
is a leading French electricals website, generating around €120 million 
revenue, predominantly in white goods at the price entry end of the 
market, with no service included. We have retained the brand name 
and will extend the product offer. Darty’s existing service infrastructure 
is being used to offer Mistergooddeal.com customers additional 
services on a pay-as-you-go basis, typically home delivery and 
extended warranties. Kitchens 
The introduction of the Kitchen offer will 
be in a further 11 stores by the end of the 
current financial year and we intend to 
double the number of stores by 2016/17.
Kitchens
Our kitchens business at Darty France is 
an example of our ability to develop the 
brand further, to move into a new product 
area, build a relevant market position and 
drive profitability. The kitchen offer is now 
in 55 stores, generating over €80 million 
of revenue and has already taken around  
5 per cent of the installed kitchen market 
in France and helped generate additional 
sales of high-end white goods. As a result 
of densifying merchandising in other 
product categories, we are now able to 
install the kitchen offer in smaller stores  
in the portfolio. We have reduced the 
implementation cost, and cost to serve, 
and launched more focused marketing 
campaigns including an entry price and 
interest-free credit offer.
12   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Building on our service image, we are now trialling 
a new initiative “Le Bouton”.
A new marketing campaign with a more 
contemporary look and feel was launched  
in October 2013.
A new marketing campaign was 
launched in October 2013, with a new 
look and feel highlighting individual 
elements of the Darty offer. Results 
show that our customers have responded 
well to the campaign and that it gives 
Darty a more contemporary image.  
It has also increased purchasing 
intention rate.
Building on our service image, we  
are now trialling a new initiative,  
“Le Bouton”. This provides priority 
access to Darty’s market-leading 
service support, 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week, via a button that contacts 
Darty’s service department. A service 
assistant then immediately contacts 
the customer to discuss the problem 
and then assistance is provided via 
phone or home visit if necessary. The 
service is available for all electrical 
products. For those not originally 
bought from Darty, or out of warranty, 
there will be a charge for any repairs 
required. The service will be available 
for a small monthly subscription when 
launched nationally in October 2014.
delivered in the second half of the year 
and the remaining €20 million will be 
realised in 2014/15, totalling the €50 
million one year ahead of schedule. 
Our freehold property underpins the 
operating and credit strength of the 
Group, supporting good relationships 
with our suppliers and finance 
providers. It also provides flexibility 
to adapt our store portfolio as the 
business evolves, but it requires active 
management to ensure maximum value 
to the Group. Following over €15 million 
of proceeds in 2012/13 we realised 
further proceeds of €29 million this 
year. During the period we also sold  
our small shareholding in French sports 
retailer, Go Sport, for €2.7 million.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive
4
The quality of our service offer 
was again confirmed with the recent 
award from IREF for overall customer 
satisfaction.
Deliver cost efficiency
Throughout the Group, we had targeted 
annualised gross cost savings of 
€50 million by 2015/16, from delivering 
a more efficient operating model, 
continuing to adapt our cost structure 
and leveraging synergies between  
our operating companies. Building  
on progress made in 2012/13, when  
the first €20 million cost savings were 
achieved, the majority of cost actions 
this financial year were to rationalise 
the Group and Darty France head office 
functions, including sourcing, and the 
merger of regions from five to three  
in France to deliver an expected 
€30 million of savings. To accelerate 
the cost savings, a social plan was 
implemented in France in the first half 
of this year and is on track to be 
completed as planned. As a consequence, 
cost savings of €10 million were 
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   13
