 Datong Electronics PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Turnover for the year grew by 12.3% to £7 .3m (2005: £6.5m) with 
funded development contract revenues representing £1.1m of this amount 
(2005: £0.1m). 
Gross proﬁt is £3.8m or 51.5% of turnover (2005: £3.8m or 58.4% of turnover). 
The principal changes in the gross proﬁt margin can be explained by the 
combination of three factors:
  a change in the sales mix, principally the sale of third party products 
totalling £1.1m (2005: £Nil) which had the effect of reducing margins by 4.1%;
  in line with our strategy, an increase in research and development costs 
(driven by an increase in headcount) reducing gross proﬁt by 1.3%; and 
 increase in headcount of the production facility reducing gross proﬁt by 1.3%.
Order intake for the year rose by 13.2% to £7.7m (2005: £6.8m), driven 
by strong market demand from the UK and the Rest of the World (‘RoW’). 
As notified previously, we were disappointed by the delay in the receipt 
of a significant US order and in the delivery of a UK development contract 
which adversely affected turnover for the year. I am pleased to announce 
that both the UK and US contracts will be delivered in the ﬁrst half of 2006/07 .
During the year we invested £1.0m in research and development, representing 
approximately 14.3% of turnover. This investment enables us to maintain our 
leading position within our homeland security and defence core markets whilst 
also gaining a foothold in new markets using the next generation of tracking 
systems and related products. 
Our market is split into four geographical regions: UK, US, Europe and the 
RoW. Datong has ofﬁces in the UK and US and is represented by a network 
of 24 distributors in the remaining territories. We continue to expand our 
geographical reach as we move into new countries and sign additional 
agreements with key distributors.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
“ WE SEEK TO MAINTAIN OUR LEADING POSITION IN EACH 
OF OUR KEY GEOGRAPHIES. IN ORDER TO REMAIN AT 
THE FOREFRONT OF THESE MARKETS, WE WILL CONTINUE 
TO INVEST IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND EXPAND 
OUR PRODUCT OFFERING.”
SUMMARY OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Continued operations into new markets. 
Increased investment in research and development.
Strategic alliances with key customers ensure 
new products are developed.  Datong Electronics PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
UK
UK turnover for the year increased by 125% to £2.7m (2005: £1.2m) due 
to the UK funded development contract discussed above. We are now 
re-organising and expanding the research and development facility to target 
such contracts in the future and are becoming proactive in our search for this 
type of business. 
US
US turnover fell to £2.6m (2005: £4.0m), primarily as a result of the delayed 
US order discussed above. Revenue from other US customers remained strong 
during the year and the current US pipeline is very healthy, with a number 
of signiﬁcant contracts expected within the year ending 31 March 2007 . 
The delayed US order is expected in the near future.
EUROPE
European turnover remained constant at £1.0m (2005: £1.0m). Sales of an  
add-on product to give legacy equipment additional GPS functionality were 
offset by a decrease in the sales of the core receiver equipment in advance 
of a product refresh in the coming year. We anticipate European sales increasing as 
the new products are accepted by the customers.
REST OF THE WORLD (‘ROW’)
Over the last year, we extended our geographic reach, particularly concentrating 
on the Middle and Far East. We are pleased to report that as a result 
of these efforts we quadrupled our sales within the RoW region to £1.0m 
(2005: £0.26m). During this ﬁnancial year we intend to build on this success, 
increasing both brand and product penetration.
MARKET DRIVERS
We continue to beneﬁt from the increase in spend in the defence and 
security industries following the recent major terrorist attacks in the US, 
UK and Indonesia, the continued spread of organised crime throughout 
the world and the current conﬂicts in the Middle East and Asia.
The Homeland Security (‘HLS’) & Homeland Defense (‘HLD’) Global Market 
Outlook 2006–2015 study reported that over the next ten years spending in 
homeland security and defence is forecast to grow at 12.1% per annum in the 
USA and 17 .2% per annum in the EU. Expenditure in emerging markets such 
as Middle and Far Eastern countries is expected to achieve even higher growth.
The United States Quadrennial Defense Review, published on 6 February 2006, 
clearly indicates a US Government commitment to the ongoing development 
of the Special Forces Operations in the ﬁght against terrorism.
Datong’s sophisticated and ﬁeld-proven products directly address this growing 
market dedicated to the ﬁght against terrorism and organised crime.
NEW NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
The Board is delighted to welcome Paul Lever as our Non-executive Chairman. 
As former chairman of the National Criminal Intelligence Service, Paul brings 
considerable industry knowledge and has already made a significant 
contribution to our activities. I would like to thank him for his assistance since 
he joined Datong on 9 September 2005.
2006 TURNOVER BY DESTINATION 2005 TURNOVER BY DESTINATION
ROW
14%
EUROPE
13%
USA
36%
UK
37%
ROW
4%
EUROPE
15%
USA
62%
UK
19% Datong Electronics PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
STRATEGY FOR GROWTH 
It is our primary aim to continue to grow the business organically and we 
will consider bolt on acquisitions and new complementary technologies 
where appropriate. To this end we were pleased to sign a contract with 
the UTEK Corporation in June 2006 which will enable us to increase our 
networking capabilities within research establishments and universities relevant 
to our business around the world. We expect this arrangement to result in 
access to a greater range of new technological innovations than we could 
achieve by ourselves and to potential acquisitions.
We seek to maintain our leading position in each of our key geographies. 
In order to remain at the forefront of these markets, we will continue to 
invest in research and development and expand our product offering.  
We have a number of new products in development which are currently 
being funded by the new money raised on Admission to AIM. It is vital that 
we maintain our reputation for developing products that are robust, reliable 
and resilient and that precisely meet the needs of our customers. 
We have an active sales force and an established distributor network, 
but referrals and recommendations from existing customers also play a key 
role in developing new business. It is our policy to work closely alongside our 
most signiﬁcant customers and distributors during the product development 
stage, ensuring that even the most exacting speciﬁcations can be rigorously 
met. We have enjoyed close working relationships with some of our military 
customers for over 20 years.
In addition, we intend to target further funded research and development 
contracts as we believe there are signiﬁcant development budgets available 
in the US and UK which will assist us in fulﬁlling our growth strategy.
OUTLOOK
Datong’s sophisticated and ﬁeld-proven products directly address the rapidly 
expanding markets dedicated to the ﬁght against terrorism and organised 
crime. We are well placed to take advantage of these growth markets and 
our application of the various tracking technologies (radio frequency, GPS 
and GSM) alone or in combination allows us to develop products speciﬁcally 
for these different markets. This will ensure our future success.
It has been a period of signiﬁcant change for the Company since our 
Admission to the AIM market on 7 October 2005. The funds raised at that 
time will be used to expand the capabilities of our business, in particular in 
research and development, sales and enhancements to the manufacturing 
and test facilities in order to meet the challenges of our customers and their 
evolving needs in a rapidly changing world.
CURRENT TRADING
Current trading for the period since 1 April 2006 is in line with 
management expectations.
BRIAN MCQUEEN SMITH
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
“ DATONG’S SOPHISTICATED AND FIELD-PROVEN PRODUCTS 
DIRECTLY ADDRESS THE RAPIDLY EXPANDING MARKET 
DEDICATED TO THE FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM AND 
ORGANISED CRIME. WE ARE ENCOURAGED BY THE LEVEL OF 
ORDERS TO DATE, AND REMAIN CONFIDENT FOR THE FUTURE.” Datong Electronics PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
MARKET OPPORTUNITY
KEY 
 DATONG’S PRINCIPAL MARKETS
 
Source:  Management and HLS/HLD Global Market Outlook – 2006-2015 
Scenario 1 used – “Persistent tension without a major terrorist crisis”.
CANADA AND MEXICO
   From 2005 to 2015, HLS and HLD spend 
forecast to grow at 16.8% per annum.
  Concern over drug smuggling 
expected to prompt Governments to 
invest more in HLS/HLD procurement.
  Pressure expected to be applied 
by USA on both countries to stem 
terrorist threat.
USA
   From 2005 to 2015, HLS and HLD spend 
forecast to grow at 12.1% per annum.
  In 2005 US spend is forecast to be 
51.5% of global HLS and HLD spend. 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA AND INDIA
   From 2005 to 2015, HLS and HLD spend 
forecast to grow at 25.7% per annum.
  Fast growing international crime 
syndicates in PRC expected to increase 
the level of HLS/HLD procurement.
  Concern over terrorist activity in 
India expected to increase demand 
in market.
AUSTRALIA, JAPAN AND PACIFIC RIM
   From 2005 to 2015, HLS and HLD spend 
forecast to grow at 12.3% per annum.
  Drug and counterfeit goods trade 
prevalent in the region.
  Australian nationals have been the 
target of terrorists.
EUROPEAN UNION
   From 2005 to 2015, HLS and HLD spend 
forecast to grow at 17 .2% per annum.
  EU member states are a key target 
for terrorist groups.
