 Datong Electronics PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to present Datong’s maiden results for the year ended 31 March 2006 
following its Admission to London’s AIM market on 7 October 2005. £2.75m (after 
expenses) of new money was raised for the Company and this is being used to fund 
the expansion of the business.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
The principal business of Datong is the development, design and manufacture 
of a range of advanced high performance surveillance products. The products 
are principally sold to government, military and federal law enforcement 
agencies to assist their operatives in covertly tracking hostile vehicles, packages, 
containers and mobile phones. Datong is headquartered in Leeds, employs 
80 people and has a sales and service ofﬁce in Virginia, USA. 
YEAR IN REVIEW
In the 12 months to 31 March 2006, Datong’s turnover grew by 12.3% to £7 .3m 
(2005: £6.5m). Before the exceptional charge of £1.9m, operating proﬁt was £1.2m 
(2005: £1.5m) and earnings per share were 7 .2p per share (2005: 8.2p per share). 
These results are in line with the expectations adjusted in January 2006 when the 
Board announced the disappointing delays in the receipt of a signiﬁcant US order 
and in the delivery of a UK development contract. 
Datong released four new products during the year, all of which have been 
well received by customers. One of these products is manufactured by a third 
party, resulting in a lower margin than Datong’s proprietary products.  
This successful launch expands the Company’s market reach and complements 
its existing product range. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“ DATONG RELEASED FOUR NEW PRODUCTS DURING 
THE YEAR, ALL OF WHICH HAVE BEEN WELL RECEIVED 
BY CUSTOMERS… THIS SUCCESSFUL LAUNCH EXPANDS 
THE COMPANY’S MARKET REACH AND COMPLEMENTS 
ITS EXISTING PRODUCT RANGE.”
SUMMARY OF CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Successful Admission to AIM. 
Turnover up 12.3%.
Four new products successfully launched and 
well received.  Datong Electronics PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Further new product launches are due to be completed in the ﬁ rst half of 
the year ending 31 March 2007 . 
Datong’s business is back-end weighted with around 65%–70% of sales 
revenue occurring in the second half of the year. This is due to EU, US and 
UK Governments’ spending trends being biased towards procurement in the 
months leading up to March, and we expect this trend to continue for the 
year ended 31 March 2007 .
DIVIDEND
A special dividend of £0.6m was paid to the previous 100% shareholder 
prior to Admission. As we wish to apply our cash resources to fund growth, 
we do not anticipate paying any further dividends in the foreseeable future. 
BOARD CHANGES
In line with our strategy, the Board is also pleased to welcome Grant Ashley to 
the Board as a Non-executive Director. Based in the US, Grant was until recently 
executive assistant director of the FBI and is currently a vice president (Corporate 
Security, Surveillance and Investigations) of Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.
The depth of experience and knowledge that Grant brings to the Company will 
be invaluable both internationally and in assisting us with the further growth of 
our US operations. Grant joined Datong on 6 June 2006.
PEOPLE
This has been an exciting and challenging year for the business and I would 
like to thank my fellow Board members and staff for their hard work, effort 
and enthusiasm over the last year.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their continued interest 
and investment in the Group.
PAUL LEVER
CHAIRMAN
