 02
Chairman’s Statement
2008 has been a year of signiﬁ cant improvement for 
the Dawson International Group. Against a background 
of very challenging economic conditions all of our 
businesses have made encouraging progress and each 
has returned an operating proﬁ t before exceptional 
items for the full year. 
Performance
Group turnover has increased from £92.6 million 
to £106.8 million, delivering an operating proﬁ t of 
£1.4 million. Crucially, the Company was strongly cash 
generative in the year with an improvement in net funds 
of £11.4 million. Of this £4.5 million resulted from the 
sale of the Dorma brand trademark and associated 
rights to Dunelm Group plc in July 2008.
Strategy
During 2008 we have seen good progress towards the 
strategic goal I set when I took up the role of Chairman, 
then subsequently Executive Chairman in 2003, that is: 
of returning all individual businesses and the Group 
as a whole to sustainable proﬁ t, with each business 
contributing an acceptable return on capital employed. 
Despite the excellent progress to date, there is clearly 
more that can be achieved, and we remain focused 
on that task.
In July 2008 we commenced a restructuring of our 
Home Furnishings division, selling the Dorma trademark 
and associated rights and focusing on the growing 
Private Label business. Our Todd & Duncan business, 
while showing a signiﬁ cant improvement in returning 
to proﬁ t in the year is not yet delivering an acceptable 
return on capital employed. We are currently discussing 
the possible sale of the business to its major supplier, 
Ningxia Zhongyin Cashmere Company Limited while 
continuing to evaluate other opportunities to generate 
an acceptable return on capital employed. 
In these turbulent times there can be opportunities as 
well as challenges and the Board will be alert for possible 
acquisitions which complement our remaining businesses 
and draw on our management teams’ proven skills 
in design, new product development and supply 
chain management.
Board and Management 
During the year J Andrew Smith and Scott Malvenan 
retired from the Board as Non-Executive Directors. 
I should like to express my thanks for their contribution 
and also welcome our new Non-Executive Directors, 
David Bolton and Jan Holmstrom who joined the 
Board on 29 July 2008.
Stephen Russell, Senior Independent Director and 
Andy Bartmess, Chief Executive are due to retire 
by rotation at this year’s AGM. They are eligible 
and offer themselves for re-election which I commend 
to shareholders. They have both made an excellent 
contribution to Board meeting debate. In addition, 
Stephen has been an effective Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Andy has delivered a highly successful 
performance as Chief Executive.
 
DAW-100408 FRONT.indd   2 DAW-100408 FRONT.indd   2 8/4/09   10:47:22 8/4/09   10:47:22
