 04
Chief Executive’s Statement
Last year I reported on the progress made in a number 
of key areas across the Group’s businesses and indicated 
that the Board believed these steps would lay the 
foundations for enhanced future performance. I am 
pleased to report that the 2008 results reﬂ ect that 
enhanced performance. Considerable progress has 
been demonstrated with each business showing 
signiﬁ cant improvement. 
Most notably:
–  the Group was proﬁ table both at an operating 
level £1.4 million and overall £0.5 million;
–  these results were achieved despite recognising 
an unrealised foreign exchange loss of £2.0 million 
in marking open foreign exchange contracts to market 
at year end and inclusion of trading losses of the 
Home Furnishings Branded business from which 
we have started to exit;
–  each of the Group’s divisions improved proﬁ tability 
year on year and generated a positive pre-exceptional 
operating proﬁ t;
–  the Group improved its funding position by 
£11.4 million in 2008, £6.3 million being generated 
by operating activities;
–  as a result, the Group ended 2008 with a positive 
net cash position of £5.7 million.
These results were achieved despite difﬁ cult economic 
conditions. They reﬂ ect the hard work and excellent 
performance of the management and employees 
of each of our Group businesses.
Group Performance
The Spinning division achieved an operating proﬁ t before 
exceptional items of £0.5 million in 2008 against a loss 
of £0.7 million in 2007. This improvement was driven by 
an increase in sales, stronger margin levels and effective 
actions taken by the Todd & Duncan management team 
that delivered improved customer service levels, product 
performance and manufacturing efﬁ ciency.
Despite all the recent progress, this business remains 
highly capital intensive and only marginally proﬁ table with 
a return on average capital employed (ROACE) in 2008 
of only 3 per cent. The strategic outlook is also extremely 
challenging; operating in an industry with signiﬁ cant 
excess capacity and several high ﬁ xed-cost competitors 
ﬁ ghting over a shrinking market. Based on these factors, 
the Company has recognised a ﬁ xed asset impairment 
charge of £1.0 million in the year. As previously announced, 
we are in discussions which may or may not lead to 
the sale of this business and this may be for a cash 
consideration of less than the carrying value of its assets.
The Knitting division had yet another excellent year, 
achieving an operating proﬁ t of £5.1 million against 
£2.8 million in 2007. This result was driven primarily 
by strong private label sales in the USA and exceptionally 
strong couture sales in Europe. ROACE within this division 
increased from 80 per cent to 86 per cent.
The Home Furnishings division, now trading as Dawson 
Home Group, achieved an operating proﬁ t of £0.4 million 
in 2008 against a loss of £2.1 million in 2007. The 
improvement was approximately evenly spread between 
the Dorma Branded and Private Label businesses. Despite 
progress within the Branded business, it continued to be 
loss making. It was the Board’s view that, despite 
management’s best efforts, it was not likely to make 
acceptable returns for some time. As a result, in July 
2008, the Board elected to sell the Dorma trademark 
and associated rights to Dunelm Group plc and to 
withdraw from the Branded business by January 2011. 
Details of this transaction are set out in the Business 
Review section. During the year the Private Label 
business improved ROACE from 55 per cent to 
73 per cent. 
DAW-100408 FRONT.indd   4 DAW-100408 FRONT.indd   4 8/4/09   10:47:22 8/4/09   10:47:22 05
Strategy & Outlook
With the exit from the Dorma Branded business, 
the Group will retain a core of proﬁ table businesses. 
While these businesses each have some branded 
elements they are largely private label businesses. 
They deliver high levels of service to their customers 
and create products of exceptional quality. They each 
have strengths in design, product development and 
supply chain management. 
Over a number of years they have built up a deep 
understanding of their customers, which enables them 
to design and develop products to their customers’ 
individual needs. This is a different approach to that 
of our major competitors, who tend to design one range 
of products for each season, which they then present 
and sell to all their customers. Our businesses develop 
a unique set of products for each major customer, 
tailored to the customers’ individual requirements and 
sales environment and these products tend to perform 
better at retail than their competition. This approach 
has been at the core of their success. It also represents 
a barrier to entry for competitors, as it requires teams 
of people with strong customer knowledge and 
established relationships developed over a number 
of years. Our strategy for the future is to continue 
to grow our existing businesses and to acquire 
additional businesses that share these core 
strengths and attributes.
Current economic conditions in the countries 
where we operate are the worst that have been 
experienced for a very long time. Each of our businesses 
is experiencing a great deal of uncertainty with respect 
to the level of demand for their products and it is quite 
likely we will see lower sales levels in 2009 than in 2008. 
We are also facing a more challenging credit management 
environment with credit insurance more difﬁ cult to obtain, 
customers tending to pay later and a higher risk of 
debtor default.
In addition, in the current environment the Home 
Furnishings division will ﬁ nd it difﬁ cult in the short-term 
to pass on cost increases to customers, caused by the 
recent rapid appreciation of the US Dollar.
Fortunately, we have entered 2009 in a position 
of strength based on the strategic actions taken 
and the results achieved in 2008. Our balance sheet 
is strong and the Group’s current businesses have 
a lower risk proﬁ le than in the past. We also expect 
the current environment will present opportunities. 
We anticipate that our current businesses will have 
the chance to gain new customers as competitors 
struggle and that there may be more acquisition 
opportunities at reasonable prices than under 
more normal circumstances.
There is still much work to be done to enable us 
to deliver our goal of sustainable proﬁ tability and 
acceptable returns on capital employed. That said, 
the Group made excellent progress in 2008 and as 
a management team we look forward to continuing 
to build on that progress.
Andy Bartmess | Chief Executive
DAW-100408 FRONT.indd   5 DAW-100408 FRONT.indd   5 8/4/09   10:47:23 8/4/09   10:47:23
