 Chairman’s Statement
In a year of global economic recession and an uncertain outlook in all of our 
markets, Dawson International delivered a satisfactory trading performance 
from continuing operations reporting an operating profit of £2.0 million  
(2008: £1.9 million) and generating funds of £6.7 million (2008: £11.4 million).
02  Chairman’s Statement  Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategy
These trading results have been achieved through our strategy 
to maximise the inherent strengths and proven track record of 
profitability within our core businesses. Concluding the sale of the 
loss making Todd & Duncan business during the year has been 
a significant achievement and the winding down of the Home 
Furnishings Branded business following the sale of the Dorma brand 
to Dunelm Group in July 2008 has made considerable progress.
Performance
I am pleased to report an operating profit from continuing 
operations of £2.0 million (2008: £1.9 million). This included a net 
gain from exceptional items of £0.6 million (2008: £1.3 million) 
which is discussed in the Financial Review. Both Knitwear divisions 
performed well, maintaining profits despite reductions in sales 
volumes. The phased exit from our Home Furnishings Branded 
division continued to plan with turnover and operating losses much 
reduced. The only operational disappointment in an otherwise 
satisfactory year was the performance of the Home Furnishings 
Private Label division where margins were impacted by higher 
product costs due to Sterling weakness.
Our strategy of staying close to customers in these challenging 
times and finding ways of adapting product and price point to 
respond to volatile market demands, whilst continuing to build 
on our strengths in design, product innovation and supply chain 
management, has largely been successful. It enabled us to deliver 
a strong final quarter in 2009, which saw improved demand in both 
our UK and US Knitwear businesses.
The sale of the Todd & Duncan business to Ningxia Zhongyin 
Cashmere Company Limited completed on 28 August 2009. The 
subjects of the sale were the business operations, fixed assets 
and stocks. The business made an operating loss of £0.9 million 
in the period and incurred a loss on disposal of £5.2 million. Funds 
of £8.1 million were generated from the disposal and subsequent 
liquidation of working capital, which have been used to eliminate all 
UK borrowings.
“Our strategy of staying close to 
customers in these challenging 
times and finding ways of 
adapting product and price point 
to respond to volatile market 
demands, whilst continuing to 
build on our strengths in design, 
product innovation and supply 
chain management, has largely 
been successful.”
Barrie
Barrie operates at the top end of the 
luxury cashmere knitwear market 
with its brands John Laing, Barrie and 
Glenmac. It designs, develops and 
manufactures highest quality cashmere 
knitwear for some of the world’s most 
prestigious couture houses.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009  Chairman’s Statement  03 Pensions
The pension scheme liabilities reported in the balance sheet are 
calculated in accordance with IAS 19. On this basis the liabilities 
increased from £6.7 million to £19.3 million, mainly due to lower 
corporate bond yields, which are used to discount liabilities, and 
increased life expectancy assumptions.
The level of contributions paid by the Company is based on a full 
actuarial valuation of scheme liabilities which is updated by the 
independent scheme actuary every three years. A triennial valuation 
is currently being finalised which is expected to show a significantly 
higher deficit than both the IAS 19 valuation and the last triennial 
valuation mainly due to more conservative assumptions used by the 
scheme actuary concerning life expectancy and discount factors. 
This escalation of the deficit represents a significant challenge for the 
UK businesses as it is likely to create future demands for increased 
financial support from the pension schemes. Discussions are 
ongoing with the Pensions Trustees and the Pensions Regulator to 
agree the way forward.
This issue is of course not unique to Dawson International and it is 
my view that a co-ordinated approach must be taken that shares 
the burden of reducing deficits and associated costs fairly amongst 
the various stakeholders involved.
Funding
We begin 2010 in a strong cash position with funds of £12.3 million 
(2008: £5.7 million). This improved position has resulted principally 
from the disposal of Todd & Duncan.
The Group has seasonal working capital funding requirements in 
both the USA and UK which are financed by asset backed facilities 
provided by Bank of America and Gmac Commercial Finance 
(“Gmac”) respectively. These facilities are due to be renewed in 2010. 
While Bank of America have provided verbal confirmation that they 
expect to renew the US facility on its existing terms for a further 
three years, Gmac have advised that they are withdrawing from 
the UK market and the facility will not be renewed when it expires 
in October 2010. The Directors have commenced the process of 
finding replacement facilities. They are currently talking to a number 
of financial institutions and based on those discussions are confident 
that they will be able to agree an adequate new facility.
Board and Management
Following my appointment as Interim Chairman on 8 May 2009 
the position was confirmed on 9 March 2010 with the support of 
shareholders holding a majority of shares. I have offered myself for 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting to enable all shareholders 
to vote on this issue.
Giovanni Ghione was appointed senior adviser to the Board on 
17 June 2009. On 1 February 2010 he was re-appointed to the 
Board as Deputy Chairman. I am pleased to welcome him and value 
his wealth of experience in the textiles industry, particularly in the 
important Italian market. His appointment also improves the balance 
of shareholder representation on the Board.
Employees
I would like to acknowledge the very difficult challenges faced by 
employees in all of our Group businesses during this turbulent 
economic environment. I thank everyone for their continued 
resilience and efforts to sustain existing business and their creative 
approach to maximising opportunities as they emerge. It is this drive 
and determination that has seen the Group return a satisfactory 
performance in a difficult year.
Outlook
Through the planned exit from loss making divisions, 2010 presents 
an opportunity to build on solid foundations and focus entirely on 
our profitable core businesses. A key priority during the year will be 
to seek ways in which to reduce the pension deficit and associated 
costs by working with the Pension Trustees to reduce liabilities and 
increase returns on assets. This is likely to restrict any development 
of the Group through potential acquisitions until substantial progress 
is made in this area.
Although there are some signs of markets stabilising, we expect 
trading to continue to be tough throughout 2010. Our approach 
to 2009 has demonstrated that we are able to take the necessary 
steps to weather these difficult trading conditions constructively 
and take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves. 
With strong, focused management teams in all of our businesses 
the Board is confident we can maintain and develop our businesses 
during the course of 2010.
David Bolton | Chairman 
04  Chairman’s Statement  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
