 Dawson Forte
Dawson Forte sources cashmere 
garments from China for US private 
label retail programmes and its own 
branded cashmere collection ‘Kinross’.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009  Chief Executive’s Statement  05
Chief Executive’s Statement
2009 was a challenging year with global economic conditions impacting product demand and 
pricing in all of the markets in which we operate. It is therefore a strong reflection on current 
strategy and the strength of our management teams that the Group’s continuing operations 
generated an operating profit of £2.0 million in such a demanding environment. 
This is particularly pleasing given the rapid deterioration of Sterling 
against the Dollar in late 2008 and its impact on our Home 
Furnishings division in 2009, which effectively increased costs by 
18 per cent in a market where it was not possible to raise prices  
to compensate.
Against this challenging backdrop I believe the Group performed 
very well and made considerable progress in 2009:
– The Group was able to build on the significant improvements 
made in 2008 and improve operating profit from continuing 
operations by 5.5 per cent against the previous year;
– Cash of £6.7 million was generated including £5.4 million directly 
from the disposal of the Todd & Duncan business. Since the 
beginning of 2008 the Group has generated over £18 million 
of cash from a combination of trading performance, business 
disposals and associated working capital release and closed 
2009 with a positive net cash position of £12.3 million;
– The Knitwear divisions sustained their exceptional performance, 
given that sales were down 17 per cent but managed to return 
an operating profit within four per cent of last year’s record result. 
Overall, the Knitwear divisions achieved an operating profit of 
£4.9 million, a return of 13.4 per cent against sales.
In addition, the Group made continued progress on a number of 
strategic fronts creating a platform to support growth and value 
creation in future years. These include the sale of its capital intensive 
and loss-making Todd & Duncan cashmere yarn business to  
Ningxia Zhongyin Cashmere Company in August 2009. The  
disposal streamlines the Group structure and creates an opportunity 
to move forward with a core of businesses capable of generating 
excellent returns.
As noted in our 2008 annual report and 2009 interim report, the 
Company was able to resuscitate a long standing debt due to 
it by Inner Mongolia King Deer Cashmere Company Limited of 
approximately $10 million, which had been fully provided for. The 
first scheduled payments against an agreed payment plan were 
received during the year; $0.5 million was received in the first half of 
the year and $1.0 million in the second half. Considering the age of 
the debt, at present the Company considers it appropriate to retain 
full provision for the outstanding balance.
“The Group made 
continued progress on a 
number of strategic fronts 
creating a platform to 
support growth and value 
creation in future years.” 06  Chief Executive’s Statement  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
The streamlined organisation is now aligned with our strategic 
focus to develop businesses with strengths in design, product 
development and supply chain management capable of delivering 
high quality, innovative products consistently on time. Product 
offerings are complemented by extensive service for customers 
seeking turnkey design, merchandising and supply chain solutions. 
Our strategy of staying close to customers and developing and 
maintaining an in-depth understanding of their changing needs, 
particularly in these challenging economic conditions, will remain 
core to our approach, resulting in product ranges that out-perform 
the competition at retail.
As reported in the Chairman’s Statement, our pension deficit 
has increased sharply in the year, growing by £12.6 million due 
to changes in corporate bond rates, which are used to discount 
liabilities, and increases in assumed life expectancy. While these 
factors are largely outside of management’s control, it is important 
to recognise that this issue has a significant impact on shareholder 
value. One of our key objectives for 2010 is to finalise negotiations 
with the Pension Trustees on an affordable arrangement that 
addresses the Group’s commitments to its pension plan members. 
However, at the same time this agreement must ensure that the 
Group retains the resources necessary to fund growth, and that 
shareholders can share equitably in the future benefits of the 
business. In the last few years we have made significant operational 
and structural improvements in the Group. Addressing this major 
remaining legacy issue will enable us to sustain these improvements 
and translate them into increased value for shareholders.
Outlook
Whilst we are seeing some signs of recovery, selling conditions 
remain very challenging, particularly in the US. Commodity price 
inflation is also becoming a factor in cashmere fibre and cotton, 
negatively impacting our Knitwear divisions and Home Furnishings 
division respectively. Despite this, we enter 2010 with positive 
momentum, a much stronger financial position and a revitalised 
organisation well positioned to grow market share and capitalise 
on improving economic conditions. We continue to make 
excellent progress towards our goals of sustained profitability and 
delivering consistent competitive returns on capital employed. As a 
management team we look forward to continuing this progress in 
2010 and beyond.
Andy Bartmess | Chief Executive
Dawson Home Group
Dawson Home Group is a leading 
supplier of own label bed linen to a 
range of quality high street retailers.
