 Cash on hand at the year end stood at £1.8m (2008: £3.1m)
There is no UK tax charge as a result of losses available
for offset. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in
relation to these losses.
No dividend is proposed for the year. Earnings per share
are disclosed in the notes below.
Board Changes
On behalf of the board we are delighted to appoint 
David Green as Group Chief Executive Officer. David had
previously been holding the position of Chief Creative
Officer and Acting Chief Executive since November 2008
and has demonstrated that he is unquestionably well
suited to lead the Group into its next phase of growth
which we anticipate will, in large part, feature a continued
push into America where David has made excellent
progress in recent months. David has worked in the
television industry for 38 years, as a prolific director and
producer of popular programming and films, and the head
of a major production business. He is experienced and well
liked in both the UK and US television communities. 
Group Structure
Further improvements have been made to the structure 
of our operating businesses to take advantage of synergies
wherever possible, minimise overheads and ensure that
we are playing to our strengths. 
Production:
Drama production activity is now driven by the newly
branded DCD Drama whilst arts programming is largely
split between West Park Pictures, our documentary and
arts specialist, and Prospect Pictures, the factual and
formats producer. September Films is a formidable force
in the production of factual entertainment, documentary
and reality series on both sides of the Atlantic from offices
in West London and Hollywood (September Films USA).
Done and Dusted continues to be regarded as the pre-
eminent music and staged events producer in the world.
And finally, the most recent addition to the DCD production
family was the establishment, in March 2009, of
Matchlight, a venture with a group of leading Scottish
producers specialising in factual programming in Glasgow.
Distribution:
Distribution comprises DCD Rights with over 2,500 hours
of programming produced either by DCD companies or
third party producers and, since August 2008, access to a
rolling £10m private equity-backed fund for the investment
in third party distribution rights. In September 2008 the
distribution division launched DCD Publishing to take
advantage of book publishing, merchandising and
licensing of ancillary rights and the division’s own 
DVD label, Digital Classics, handles DVD distribution 
for DCD produced material and third party producers. 
Outlook
Notwithstanding the challenging environment facing all UK
independent producers, DCD is in its best shape to date.
We have a group of high quality production brands and
talented individuals, sharing overheads, and a distribution
division that is maximising the value of every aspect of
their programming rights and those of other producers.
Thanks to considerable efforts by the board and the willing
shown by our stakeholders we are going into 2010 with
manageable debt, stronger working capital and an
increasingly profitable business. 
In the UK the group is suffering, along with every other
independent producer, from a slowdown in commissioning
activity particularly in high budget areas such as television
drama, which has historically been a major contributor 
to group performance. However, as confidence returns 
to the market, we expect broadcaster-spend on such 
areas to improve and DCD Drama will be poised to take
advantage of the resurgence. 
Perhaps of most significance looking ahead is that 35% of
annualised revenues are now coming from North America,
predominantly in US TV production and, for the first time in
our history, we are in simultaneous production on three
major series for three major US broadcasters out of our
Los Angeles office. What is exciting about this is we are
merely scratching the surface of a vast commissioning
pool in the USA where we are gaining momentum.
I would like to thank my board colleagues and every
member of the DCD team for their hard work that has
enabled the Company to demonstrate the resilience shown
in these results. In particular I would like to thank the
Chief Financial Officer, John McIntosh, for his role in
completing the refinancing of debt last month and finally,
our Chief Executive, David Green, who is driving the push
into America with tremendous success. 
David Elstein
Chairman
DCD MEDIA PLC 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT DCD is shaped in such a way as to mitigate dependence 
on any one programme genre and to retain the upside of
all of our intellectual property. An integrated business 
with shared overheads allows us the flexibility to allocate
resources to the most profitable activity at any one time.
The Group may continue to broaden its genres either
organically or through acquisition as well as expand
internationally as it has done with success and minimal
investment in the USA, Ireland and Scotland in recent
months. I am pleased to provide a review of activity 
within the Group.
PRODUCTION
Done and Dusted
Done and Dusted is one of the world’s foremost
independent producers of concert and staged events.
During the year Done and Dusted has made great 
strides in diversifying its output for example with the
transmission of its first interactive youth facing series 
101 Challenges on C4, the production of a groundbreaking
series of mobisodes for Nokia’s pioneering mobile TV
channel, and a number of new commissions in the
lucrative field of ad-funded programming.
Revenues from Done and Dusted are underpinned by a
number of large, high profile recurring events such as 
The Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show (staged and filmed 
by Done and Dusted) which transmitted on America’s
number one network CBS on Dec 3 2008, watched by 
8.7m viewers, making it the highest rated programme 
for adults (18-49) on CBS TV and T4 On The Beach, the
annual C4 flagship show broadcast live and repeated
throughout the year on C4/E4.
During the year Done and Dusted filmed international 
acts such as Mika, Stevie Wonder, Coldplay and Neil
Diamond’s shows at Madison Square Garden, the latter
transmitting after the year end to top ratings on 
primetime CBS TV.
With pressure on broadcaster-spend on commissioning
in the current environment Done and Dusted has sought 
to mitigate the effects by pursuing, with success, various
advertiser-funded events, both during and post year end,
such as F1 Rocks Singapore, a three-day live mega
concert held in conjunction with the Formula One night
race in Singapore (ad-funded by LG for Universal),
featuring performances from No Doubt, Black Eyed 
Peas, Beyoncé, N*E*R*D, ZZ Top and Simple Minds and
Guinness’ worldwide 250th Anniversary celebration 
(ad-funded for Guinness) with non-stop live performances
including Tom Jones, Estelle, Kasabian, Razorlight,
Sugababes, Jamie Cullum and David Gray, streamed
across bars and pubs worldwide and in the UK on PubTV.
Done and Dusted has been extremely active since year
end, with September 2009 its busiest month to date
staging or filming no less than five high profile live music
events including Coldplay at Wembley Stadium and
Barcelona. Other post year end business has included the
MOBO Awards 2009 in Glasgow, broadcast live on the
BBC, Green Day live concert for MTV, A Christmas Carol
for Sky Movies’ launch of the Disney movie across various
locations in London and last month’s T4 Stars of 2009 live
on C4, which followed on from the annual success of T4
On The Beach with the launch of a new winter live music
event that may become another recurring show for the
Group. Done and Dusted will also be filming Miley Cyrus at
the O2 for a two hour special.
DCD Drama
All DCD drama development and programming is now
generated by the newly branded DCD Drama,
incorporating Box TV. This area, traditionally producing
low-volume, high-budget output has suffered more than
any other area in the Group, with continued programme
slippage during the dry spell of broadcaster-spend on high
budget drama. DCD has reduced the costs associated with
this division accordingly though we expect it to return to
prominence as confidence returns to the broadcasters. 
Prospect Pictures (Prospect)
Prospect Pictures, DCD’s factual and formats specialist,
enjoyed a period of increased activity from its London and
Cardiff production offices. Revenues are underpinned by a
high volume, low cost recurring programme flow including
Daily Cooks Challenge, which transmitted its third season
during the year featuring 50x60’ episodes and Christmas
Cooks Challenge, both for ITV1. Prospect received a
commission for the fourth season of Daily Cooks
Challenge post year end in October 2009. Growth in the
year has come largely from an increase in new factual and
arts programme production for multiple broadcaster
clients – both one-offs and series - including The Road to
Glory for BBC Films, RAF at 90 for BBC2, My Brilliant
Britain (10x30’) for Blighty, Fix My Fat Head, Rock and Roll
Hotel (3x40’) and Tourettes: I Swear I Can’t Help It, all for
BBC1 as well as a 30 episode-strong series of short films
for the ONE SHOW (BBC1) with double the amount
commissioned for delivery next year. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 5
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Alongside West Park Pictures, Prospect contributes to the
Group’s production of arts programming output.
Productions in this genre for Prospect during the year
have included Do It Yourself: The Story Rough Trade
(Broadcast Award nominated) and A Poet’s Guide to
Britain (6x30’), both for BBC4 with ancillary rights to the
latter now being exploited by DCD Publishing and Digital
Classics (DVD). The increase in arts programming
continued post year end with the commissioning of two
feature length arts documentaries for BBC4 for
transmission next spring - Chopin and the Nightingale and
Elgar The Outsider. The surge in factual programming
activity at Prospect prompted the expansion of the senior
creative team during the year.
September Films (September)
September Films is enjoying tremendous momentum 
in primetime factual entertainment, documentary and
reality format programming on both sides of the Atlantic,
particularly in the US during and post year end.
September produced its first original real life series for 
US broadcaster A&E, The Exterminators, which premiered
in January 2009. Following the success of Season 1
(13x30’) September received a commission post year 
end to produce 20x30’ new episodes to air in 2010.
September’s sixth season of WE’s hit series Bridezillas
transmitted during the summer, leading to a commission
post year end for Season 7 of the US network’s all-time
highest rated series. The order brings the Bridezillas
franchise to 127 hours – to be distributed internationally 
by DCD Rights. The first 102 hours have so far sold to over
50 territories, making Bridezillas DCD’s biggest selling
international brand ever. A further triumph in the US
markets followed September’s production of a one-hour
pilot behind-the-scenes real-life documentary, Mall Cops:
Mall Of America, which post year end led to the
commissioning by US cable network, TLC, for a whole
12x30’ first season. 
September further cemented its reputation as the world’s
preeminent producer of high profile human interest
documentaries with The Pregnant Man production,
winning US commissioning broadcaster, Discovery Health
US, its highest audience of the year. The division received
an incredible raft of new commissions in this genre both
during, and since the year end, including Deaf And Blind
Triplets for Discovery Health US, Growing Without A Face
for Five, The World’s Heaviest Man Gets Married for Five
and TLC, China’s Elephant Man for National Geographic,
Half Ton Son and Britain’s Conjoined Twins: Faith & Hope
for C4 and National Geographic, Conjoined Twins: Sister
Bond, Child Frozen in Time, Marlie’s New Face: 4 years
On, 650 lb Virgin and 650 lb Virgin: The Weight is Over
all for TLC
September has demonstrated its diversity by breaking into
the lucrative children’s programming genre with a hit first
season of Richard Hammond’s Blast Lab for CBBC/BBC2.
Following the ratings success CBBC commissioned a
second season during the year under review to bring the
current total to 52 episodes. The division also received
critical acclaim for its 4x60’ documentary series Alan
Whicker’s Journey of a Lifetime for BBC2 and was
commissioned by BBC1 to produce a new primetime
documentary series, Children’s Emergency (8x30’). 
It is worth noting the breadth of broadcasters whom
September now counts as clients demonstrating that 
we are not dependent on any single customer for the 
bulk of our work and the growing reputation of the
production company is spreading among a wide pool 
of commissioners. 
In light of the volume of production activity within
September and the opportunities that continue to flow
in its direction, we were pleased to add Steve Carsey
(former Endemol and Mentorn) to the team as Creative
Director, Entertainment. Steve has a formidable reputation
in creating, developing and producing innovative formatted
entertainment, popular factual, reality and event
programming and will add value to the business.
West Park Pictures (West Park)
West Park’s relationship with Stephen Fry led to further
high quality programme output with the series Stephen
Fry in America featuring in the top 10 of 2008’s most
viewed factual shows on UK television and Stephen Fry’s
Last Chance To See (6x60’ BBC2) airing primetime BBC2.
West Park has expanded both geographically, with the
opening of West Park West in Dublin in April 2009 and 
in its range of genres with wildlife, sports and even live
broadcast activity during the year. The strategic move to
gain a footprint in the Irish television market is bearing
fruit following the delivery of several projects, mainly 
for the national broadcaster RTE, including the award
nominated documentary, Horses, and two-part
documentary, The Invincibles. West Park has also
continued an enduring relationship with German director
Werner Herzog who directed a highly acclaimed short 
film based on an aria of La Boheme for Sky Arts’ 2009
Opera Season. The division delivered an 8x30’ behind 
the scene doc series Theatreland to Sky Arts, along with
groundbreaking ‘simulcasts’ of two high profile opera
productions, La Boheme (live from the English National
Opera) and L ’Elisir D’Amor (live from Glyndebourne
Festival) which transmitted simultaneously on Sky 
Arts and Sky Arts HD. The success of these productions
has led to discussions with Sky Arts regarding more
similar programming. 
DCD MEDIA PLC 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW The nature of West Park’s area of programming 
offers opportunities to mitigate the slowdown in UK
commissioning activity by deriving certain revenues 
from non-broadcast sources such as The Prince’s
Charities, for whom there are several programmes 
in production. This trend has continued since the year 
end and West Park is currently focusing on a number 
of further potential non-broadcaster projects, including 
a major museum project in the Middle East.
Matchlight
In March 2009 DCD joined forces with a group of six 
of Scotland’s leading programme makers to establish
Matchlight, a major new production company based in
Glasgow, Scotland. Matchlight specializes in documentary,
specialist factual and factual entertainment programme
making. This was a strategic move to capture
opportunities arising from the public service broadcasters’
commitment to increase programme supply from the
nations and regions of the UK. The BBC has undertaken 
to increase programming originated from Scotland from
3% of its total original television output in 2008 to at least
8.9% by 2016.
The strategy is paying off as Matchlight has already
secured several factual commissions for major UK
broadcasters including BBC1, BBC2 and C4. The new
production company’s first documentary production
The Exhumer aired primetime on Channel 4. Matchlight
has since entered production on three new programmes; 
a major six-part primetime series Libel Britain for BBC1
(details of which remain under wraps); and one off
documentaries Mind The Gap for BBC 2, fronted by 
John Humphrys, and Taking The Keys Away for BBC1. 
The pipeline for 2010 is positive – Matchlight is currently
developing projects with ITV, Channel 4, Five and BBC.
Matchlight is receiving funded development support 
from both Channel 4 and the BBC.
DISTRIBUTION – COMPRISING DCD RIGHTS, 
DCD PUBLISHING AND DIGITAL CLASSICS
DCD Rights
The distribution engine of DCD Media is powering along at
great pace, exploiting both the international programming
rights of DCD companies and, increasingly, those of
independent producers who are recognising DCD Rights 
as the partner of choice for handling their own content. 
A weaker commissioning environment tends to lead to
increased spend on content that is already made. That
DCD Rights has enjoyed a healthy year in tough trading
conditions is evidence of this trend and unequivocally
supports the rationale for a vertically integrated group.
Human interest documentaries, such as those made by
September Films (eg. The Pregnant Man or Prospect
Pictures (eg. Tourettes: I Swear I Can’t Help It, are
particularly saleable around the world, so the ability to
arrive at international television markets with a raft of
programming to offer in that genre, and a known pipeline
of new material, is a real competitive edge. Likewise, 
DCD Rights controls valuable rights to hugely popular
series such as Bridezillas, whose first 102 hours have 
so far sold to over 50 territories with the franchise shortly
to increase to 127 hours, and Stephen Fry in America,
which proved immensely popular at the Cannes television
market last autumn. 
DCD Rights has continued to broaden its catalogue with 
a wide array of new programmes from cutting edge 
factual entertainment to live music from the world’s
hottest musicians to dramas and children’s entertainment.
At the latest TV sales market held in Cannes in October
2009, DCD Rights arrived with a substantial slate of new
shows produced by both DCD in-house and independent
producers, cementing deals for Richard Hammond’s 
Blast Lab in Asia, Australia and New Zealand as well 
as Last Chance To See and 45 Stone Virgin in Europe,
Japan and Australia. In the live music genre, where DCD
Rights is the distributor of choice for many programme
makers, new titles including Pink: Funhouse, Take That,
and Kings Of Leon sold in the US, UK, Latin America,
Australia and Europe.
In September 2008, DCD Rights became involved with 
a potentially highly valuable private equity backed fund 
for the purpose of acquiring programme rights. With this
war-chest of a rolling £10m of third-party capital, DCD
Rights is able participate in the production financing of 
in-house and independent programming in return for
control of the international distribution rights. A series 
of deals have been completed, predominantly post year
end, and DCD Rights has been able to acquire rights in
some very valuable product including Land Girls for 
BBC1, Breaking the Mould for BBC4, A Model Daughter
for Australia’s Screentime, Half Ton Teen for Megalomedia
and CollegeHumor for Remote Productions. As the
commissioning environment improves so too should 
the volume of capital advanced against programme rights.
We view this as a unique and extremely positive advantage
to DCD Rights’ offering, the benefits of which should filter
through during the current financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2009 7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW DCD Publishing
Ancillary rights to television programming such as
licensing, merchandising and book publishing are often
under-exploited. This was the basis, in September 2008,
for DCD to establish a publishing division in order to
maximise the potential of every aspect of intellectual
property – both our own and that of other producers. DCD
Publishing is led by Adrian Sington, a TV tie-in publishing
expert, formerly Managing Director of Boxtree, Chairman
of Virgin Books and Vice-Chairman of Virgin Animation.
Since creation DCD Publishing has grown its portfolio 
of brands to encompass three main areas: Television
(Richard Hammond’s Blast Lab, Stephen Fry in America),
Animation (Suzy’s Zoo) and Music merchandising
(representing some of the world’s leading music
publishers Universal Music Publishing, peermusic,
Chrysalis Music Publishing), a division run by Head 
of Licensing and Music Merchandising, Michael Gottlieb,
appointed in May 2009.
With a publishing deal for the TV series Stephen Fry 
in America, the division got off to a flying start and has 
been growing steadily since proving to be a very profitable
area of business. DCD Publishing successfully licensed 
the book of Richard Hammond’s Blast Lab to Dorling
Kindersley, other TV tie-in deals have included Alan
Whicker’s Journey of a Lifetime with HarperCollins,
Stairway To Heaven and Last Chance To See, all
programmes produced by companies within the Group.
Post year end, in September 2009, the division secured 
its first toy deal in conjunction with Richard Hammond’s
Blast Lab and, in October, its first major deal in Music
Merchandising, Puppy Love with Chrysalis Music and
Universal Music, developing a puppy that will sing the
original iconic hit ‘Puppy Love’ written by Paul Anka 
and a worldwide hit for Donny Osmond.
Digital Classics (DVD Label and Digital Download)
Since creation the DVD label has released 83 titles – of
those 83 some 80% are on behalf of independent
producers with the balance coming from DCD generated
programmes. The label is gaining in reputation and the
last twelve months have been transformational, achieving
its first best-seller DVD with Stephen Fry in America.
During the year Digital Classics licensed and released 20
titles including several from Warner Home Entertainment
including Richard Lester’s Petulia, starring Julie Christie,
Audrey Hepburn’s Green Mansions, Ken Russell’s
Lisztomania, starring Roger Daltrey, and Kaleidoscope
with Warren Beatty. Other successes included West Park
Pictures’ The Invincibles and Stephen Fry: HIV & Me. 
The DVD division has had an excellent start to the current
financial year, already having released 75% of the prior
year’s volume of titles. Digital Classics is negotiating deals
with a number of production companies to release their
back catalogue titles on DVD and recently launched Last
Chance to See with Stephen Fry in tandem with the Harper
Collins book release and a major associated PR campaign.
Outlook 
Since July 2009 Done and Dusted has secured its biggest
ever slate of music and concert gigs and September Films
has already closed a record $13.8m of new business out of
its LA office. For the first time ever the Group is
simultaneously filming three US TV reality series in the
States for three different broadcasters. Major
recommissions like Prospect Pictures’ Daily Cooks
Challenge for ITV and Richard Hammond’s Blast Lab for
BBC have also added to this positive momentum. A return
to healthier production output, within DCD and across the
whole industry, will bolster performance of both our
production and distribution entities and evidence points to
DCD’s strongest pipeline of programming to date. 
David Green
Chief Executive Officer
DCD MEDIA PLC 8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
