 16 De La Rue Annual Report 2013
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
During the year, we have made good 
progress on the Improvement Plan and 
enter the third year of the Plan with real 
momentum. The benefits gained in cost 
savings and process improvement have 
helped improve our operating margin 
notwithstanding the challenging market 
conditions.
The Group has reported an  
8 per cent reduction in revenue to  
£483.7m (2011/12: £528.3m) largely 
reflecting lower trading volumes in the 
Currency business unit. Operating profit 
(before exceptional items) was £63.2m 
(2011/12: £63.1m). 
Savings of £12m were realised in the 
period bringing the annual cost reductions 
under the Improvement Plan to £20m. 
Order intake in the period was lower than 
originally expected, reflecting delays in a 
number of important Currency contracts, 
lower overspill and the challenging currency 
market. At the year end, the Group  
12 month order book, excluding currently 
suspended orders, was down 17 per cent 
at £207m (2011/12: £248m).
However, the pipeline of order opportunities 
is strong, with an increased level of overspill 
prospects compared with the low level 
experienced in 2012/13. We expect that  
an appropriate proportion of this pipeline 
will be converted into orders for delivery  
in 2013/14.
Delivering the Improvement Plan
We have continued to make good progress 
on the implementation of the Plan, the 
benefits of which have become more 
important in the increasingly challenging 
currency market. The improvements 
generated through the revenue initiatives 
have helped in part to mitigate these 
challenges. The cost reduction programme 
is ahead of schedule and is now expected 
to exceed our original target by £10m and 
deliver annual savings of £40m by the end 
of the Plan. We have identified further cost 
reduction opportunities that will be pursued 
in the periods beyond 2013/14.
The Plan includes an investment 
programme to improve manufacturing 
capability, quality and efficiency with capital 
expenditure in the period of £37.1m, 
bringing the cumulative spend in the first 
two years of the Plan to £69.2m. Over 
the three years of the Plan we expect 
to have invested c£100m. This ongoing 
programme will give the Group greater 
flexibility and improve its competitive 
position, allowing it to respond better  
to market opportunities.
Given the fundamental strengths of the business and real 
momentum on the Improvement Plan, I believe that the Group  
has a strong foundation from which to achieve sustainable  
growth over the long term.
Tim Cobbold
Chief Executive
