 2 DE VERE GROUP PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW
Chief Executive’s Overview
During my first three months I have visited
every operating unit to review operations
first-hand. I have been struck by the
genuine enthusiasm of all our people and
the passion they have for the Group. 
This gives me confidence that we are in a
strong position to grasp evident
opportunities to improve core
performance, aided by enhanced systems
and processes, as well as through a future
market recovery.
One of my key responsibilities will be to
ensure a rigorous approach to capital
allocation, directing expansionary capital
to the highest returning investments. 
In particular, I have been impressed by the
high cash returns generated from Village
developments and the roll-out of this
unique brand will continue to be a
priority for the Group with five new
Villages in the pipeline.
De Vere, having proven itself to be the
leading operator of four and five-star golf
and resort hotels in the UK, also provides
value enhancing growth potential, likely
through less capital intensive routes. Our
leading timeshare business, De Vere Resort
Ownership, adds further strength to our
resort proposition.
“Our 2003 results demonstrate the Group’s ability to
deliver a robust performance in what has been a
subdued trading climate for the industry. There is no
doubt that De Vere Group holds a strong position in
its chosen sectors and the excellent operating
reputation of its two hotel brands, De Vere Hotels 
and Village Hotels & Leisure Clubs, is well-deserved.”
Carl Leaver Chief Executive CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 3
1. Everything is taken care of for you at 
De Vere.
2. Salingers Restaurants – the perfect venue to
enjoy good quality food.
3. Enjoy a diverse range of activities at one of
the Group’s many leisure clubs.
4. Taking fitness seriously at Greens.
Greens, our standalone health & fitness
brand, is well-positioned in the adult
segment, differentiated from much of the
competition which is targeting families.
Nevertheless, short-term market conditions
remain challenging. Therefore, for the
moment, I believe that a period focused
on improving operational performance is
in the best interests of shareholders.
In summary, I am pleased with what I
have found since joining a Group which
already has an excellent track record of
operating results. I am confident that
there are exciting and highly accessible
opportunities to grow shareholder value in
the future and I look forward to 2004
with optimism.
Positive first impressions:
• Strong operating track record underpinned by great people.
• De Vere Hotels outperforming the market, supported by the highest      
customer loyalty in the industry.
• Village delivering excellent returns through highly differentiated offering.
• Greens returning ahead of cost of capital but focus remains on driving
core profitability.
1 2 3
4
