 I DE VERE GROUP PLC I CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STRATEGY REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STRATEGY REVIEW: 
It is now more than a year since I joined  
De Vere, and six months since I 
presented the Group’s new strategy. We 
have achieved a lot in this time, laying 
the foundations that will underpin the 
achievement of our clear ﬁnancial target of 
a 10% return on capital employed by the 
end of the 2006/07 ﬁnancial year. Delivery 
of this target will be driven by the four key 
strands of our strategy: Leveraging our 
strong brands, implementing operational 
excellence, accelerating Village growth and 
improving De Vere returns.
•  Strengthening our brands to drive customer 
loyalty and extend operating premium over 
peers.
•   Developing our CRM capability to reach 
speciﬁc customer segments and drive higher 
response rates from marketing spend.
•  Investing in leading-edge reservation and revenue 
management systems to maximise our global 
distribution.
•  Driving best practice across our brands to 
increase efﬁciencies and reduce costs.
BRANDS OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
 6  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STRATEGY REVIEW I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I
Leveraging our strong brands
We are now taking a far more scientiﬁc 
approach to brand strategy and customer 
relationship management (CRM). We 
have conducted in-depth research into 
the factors driving customer preference 
and have analysed the brand attributes 
that drive higher returns. The result of 
this is a clear understanding of what 
differentiates our brands from competitors, 
allowing us to put customers at the heart 
of our decision making and to channel 
investment and effort into higher yielding 
initiatives.
An early result of this analysis has been 
a shift in De Vere’s advertising strategy 
away from brand awareness campaigns, 
the precise beneﬁts of which are difﬁcult 
to quantify, towards more targeted and 
highly measurable ‘call to action’ CRM 
marketing. We have segmented our two 
million strong customer database to drive 
progressively higher response rates with  
the aim of ensuring that we maximise the 
return from our marketing spend.
At Village our enhanced insight into the 
brand has already led to a re-evaluation 
of the Village site design, allowing us 
to save over £2 million on current build 
cost whilst at the same time improving 
the unique customer experience. This 
has enabled the Group to pursue a more 
aggressive roll-out strategy.
Implementing operational excellence
Several initiatives are being implemented 
to improve operational performance and 
efﬁciencies across the Group. These will 
have increasing importance and add real 
competitive advantage as we implement 
our aggressive growth plans.
More than £2 million is being invested 
in 2004/05 in a leading edge reservation 
system. This will provide the Group with a 
system delivering real time availability and 
price parity across all booking channels, 
whether direct to hotel or via central 
reservations, the internet or third parties. 
This means that more people will be 
able to book more of our hotels in more 
ways, maximising booking opportunities 
by giving access to multiple channels. In 
addition, increased efﬁciency and reduced 
transaction costs will build to a saving 
of £0.75 million per annum by 2006/07. 
Village and the De Vere Cavendish St. 
James’s will go live on this system in 
December 2004, with the rest of De Vere 
Hotels following in March 2005.
We have appointed a talented new team 
to develop our revenue management 
capability and will be piloting a new IT 
system early in 2005, with full roll-out 
across De Vere Hotels and Village targeted 
by the end of the calendar year. We believe 
that this has the potential to increase 
RevPAR by 3-4% by 2006/07.
•  Accelerating the Village roll-out to four or ﬁve new 
sites per annum from 2006/07.
•    Increasing room stock at existing sites where 
demand is sufﬁcient to drive high returns.
•  Developing existing hotels where high returns 
are achievable through bedroom extensions, 
additional facilities and De Vere Resort Ownership.
•  Growing the brand primarily through low-capital 
intensive routes, such as management contracts. 
•  Disposing of hotels where acceptable returns 
cannot be achieved.
VILLAGE GROWTH DE VERE RETURNS
7
TARGETING 10% 
RETURNS BY 2006/07  8
We have also completed the roll-out of 
Delphi MPE, the leading conference and 
events booking system. At present De Vere 
has a signiﬁcant level of frustrated demand 
and this system will enable us to refer 
bookings across the Group, so capturing 
business that has previously been lost.
We are beginning to drive measurable 
synergy beneﬁts across the business by 
sharing best practice and leveraging our 
scale. We are targeting annual savings of 
£3 million by the end of 2006/07 through 
improved purchasing, enhanced food 
and beverage margins, increased utility 
efﬁciency and reduced labour and other 
expenses. Additionally, about £0.75 million 
of incremental proﬁt is expected annually 
through better management of the Group’s 
golf operations, including the attraction of 
additional corporate spend and increased 
asset and purchasing efﬁciency. We have 
also consolidated the best aspects of the 
health & ﬁtness membership sales processes 
from Greens and Village. This resulted 
in a 16% increase in like-for-like new 
membership sales in the second half of the 
year, with both brands starting the new 
ﬁnancial year ahead of expectations.
Accelerating Village growth
The Group’s most exciting growth 
opportunity within the existing business is 
Village, where we see potential to increase 
the estate from its existing 13 sites to more 
than 50 across the UK. Development of the 
new build model has identiﬁed substantial 
savings which will compensate for inﬂation 
in construction industry costs over recent 
years, thereby giving us conﬁdence that 
these growth targets can be achieved.
There are four new Village hotels 
scheduled to open by March 2006, which 
will bring the total number of Villages 
to 17. Three further sites are in various 
stages of negotiation. It is our intention to 
accelerate the roll-out of Village to four or 
ﬁve new sites per annum from 2006/07 at 
returns signiﬁcantly ahead of our weighted 
average cost of capital.
Aside from new openings, with occupancy 
of around 80%, there is signiﬁcant scope 
to expand the bedroom count of the 
existing estate by approximately 20% (260 
bedrooms) through extensions to seven 
Villages. Construction of a 48 bedroom 
extension at Coventry was completed in 
August 2004 and planning permission has 
been received for extensions at Cardiff (32 
bedrooms) and Bury (28 bedrooms), both of 
which have started on site. Design schemes 
are in preparation at four additional hotels 
to deliver more than 150 further rooms. The 
average targeted third year EBIT return of 
these projects is over 24%.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STRATEGY REVIEW:
CONTINUED
I DE VERE GROUP PLC I CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STRATEGY REVIEW Improving De Vere returns
We believe that the performance of  
De Vere Hotels will beneﬁt not only from 
better brand management and operational 
excellence, but also from a general market 
recovery and speciﬁc strategic actions to 
improve returns.
Major developments at eight De Vere 
Hotels have been identiﬁed and are being 
actively pursued. These developments 
include over 170 additional bedrooms, 
three new golf courses and three new spas. 
Construction of the new golf course at  
De Vere Cameron House has commenced 
and planning consent has been received 
for the spa, which will start on site over the 
next few months. A planning application 
has also been submitted for a 35 bedroom 
extension at De Vere Cameron House, a 
30 bedroom extension at De Vere Dunston 
Hall and a 32 bedroom extension at  
De Vere University Arms.
There are also signiﬁcant opportunities 
in our timeshare business, De Vere Resort 
Ownership (DVRO). Advance sales at  
The Carrick, our new resort adjacent to  
De Vere Cameron House, now total  
£4.2 million. Most of these sales have 
been made to existing DVRO customers 
at almost nil marketing cost, providing 
clear evidence of the strength of the brand 
and the appeal of the timeshare format. 
Construction of lodges at The Carrick has 
started in earnest and we are investigating 
the possibility of other resorts within the 
existing De Vere Hotels portfolio.
The Group also aims to expand the  
De Vere brand, primarily through low capital 
intensive routes such as management 
contracts. We are currently in advanced 
discussions on a number of sites in the 
UK and Europe, where there is further 
opportunity to leverage the strength of  
the brand within the golf resort market.
As previously stated, where returns ahead 
of our weighted average cost of capital 
cannot be reasonably achieved on existing 
assets we will dispose of these assets. This 
was demonstrated by the sale this year of 
the De Vere Bellhouse and the marketing 
for sale of the De Vere Dormy.
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STRATEGY REVIEW I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 9
CARL LEAVER
Chief Executive
