 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
5
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
We also have plans to increase our international
store franchises from 30 to over 70 stores by the
end of the 2010 financial year.
Debenhams changed its culture under its new
management team with an increased emphasis
on the needs of our customers. It is no coincidence
that we had our best ever years in the wake of this
change. 
Our management style places the focus on
leadership and trading in a structure of rigid
uncompromising cost and capital control. 
We encourage sensible risk-taking, trial new ideas,
measure and evaluate them and then act quickly.
We believe in incentives, which means we reward
success and encourage those who deliver and
challenge, not those who present well or adopt
conventional wisdom. 
We also want to be a good citizen, to help create
a stable prosperous economy in which our
business can grow while supporting sensible 
CSR and environmental initiatives.
The management of Debenhams believes that
there is no difference between a well-run private
or public company. We are committed to our
culture. We know it gives us the best chance 
to succeed in an increasingly tough and
demanding marketplace. 
We really value the contribution of our 25,000
people, including the many new employees 
who joined us during the year, and thank them 
for their continuing hard work and enthusiasm. 
We are committed to the Debenhams culture 
of customer focus and individual responsibility.
The board is recommending a final dividend 
of 2.4 pence per share in line with the progressive
dividend policy outlined at IPO.
John Lovering
Chairman
24 October 2006
These first full-year results as a re-listed
company once again demonstrate the
strength and resilience of Debenhams as 
we continue to deliver on our plans to grow
the business profitably.
During the year Debenhams has enhanced its
position as one of the leading department store
groups in the world, offering stylish products at
affordable prices.
Against a challenging retail backdrop, we have
again increased profits, sales and market share
while accelerating our store opening plans,
improving the supply chain and successfully
refurbishing our existing stores.
There is still significant growth potential to 
come from our Designers at Debenhams and
own-label brands, while our unique mix of own,
international and concession brands gives this
business huge flexibility. 
In addition, we are accelerating plans to expand
our portfolio of department stores, either by
acquisition or new store openings, and believe
there is potential to increase our portfolio from
132 up to 240 stores in the UK and Republic 
of Ireland.
Separately, we have successfully trialled our new
concept women’s store, Desire by Debenhams,
with five stores open and another four contracted
to open. We have also invested in a new
distribution centre and in upgrading our website.
John Lovering
“DURING THE YEAR DEBENHAMS HAS ENHANCED 
ITS POSITION AS ONE OF THE LEADING
DEPARTMENT STORE GROUPS IN THE WORLD” 6
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Crochet mini dress and cream dolly coat from 
Red Herring, one of our many exclusive own-brands
