 7
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
7
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
One of Debenhams’ key strengths is our multi-
category product strategy which enables us to
differentiate ourselves from traditional single-
brand high street retailers and widens our appeal
to a larger consumer audience. We have a strong
presence in key product categories such as
womenswear, menswear, accessories, lingerie,
childrenswear and homewares. The continued
development of our exclusive own-brand
products such as Red Herring, Maine New England,
Debut and Thomas Nash alongside our exclusive
Designers at Debenhams ranges has resulted in
our own-bought sales continuing to increase
market share and become a greater proportion 
of our overall sales.
Performance last year
For the year to 2 September 2006 gross
transaction value increased by £106.1 million 
to £2,192.9 million. As a result of these sales
increases, together with margin gains and a firm
focus on our cost base, our underlying operating
profit before exceptional items for the year
increased by 21.2 per cent to £267.4 million.
Group profit before tax and exceptional 
charges rose by 67.9 per cent to £112.8 million.
Like-for-like sales increased by 0.5 per cent for 
the year, compared to a 2.8 per cent increase 
in the previous year. Sales were adversely 
affected during June, this was predominantly
caused by a combination of a delay in the launch
of our summer sale due to the unfavourable
weather, the World Cup and the lack of a 
strong fashion trend across the summer. 
Sales progressively improved during the latter
months of the year.
The year under review has been a period 
of both transformation and expansion for
Debenhams. The Company re-listed its shares
on the London Stock Exchange in May 2006,
completed the conversion of the eight former
Allders stores that were purchased in the
previous year and agreed to acquire nine
department stores from Roches Stores in 
the Republic of Ireland.
Expansion of our store portfolio continued with
the opening of five new department stores in
Hemel Hempstead, Ayr, Newbridge, Doncaster
and Workington. We also opened three new
Desire by Debenhams stores, our exciting small
store format, in South Shields, Orpington and
Falkirk along with 11 new international franchise
stores in five countries which helped extend 
the global reach of the Debenhams brand.
Our new distribution centre in Peterborough is
now fully operational which positions us well in
terms of our store expansion programme.
At the time of the IPO in May 2006, we outlined
our strategy for growth which revolved around
three main growth drivers: space expansion,
supply chain and store portfolio initiatives as well
as new routes to market. As we enter the new
financial year, our strategy remains firmly on track
and our space expansion programme has been
accelerated with the recent acquisition of nine
department stores from Roches Stores in the
Republic of Ireland, a further department store in
Llandudno and a Desire by Debenhams store in
Birmingham Fort.
Rob Templeman
“AS WE ENTER THE NEW FINANCIAL YEAR OUR
STRATEGY REMAINS FIRMLY ON TRACK” CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
8
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
We are extremely proud of our products and
brands and during the year Debenhams was
pleased to receive the Department Store of the
Year Award, voted by 6,000 readers of Company
Magazine and the following Prima High Street
Awards:
• Retailer of the Year
•
Best Evening Wear
• John Rocha – Best Designer
A key objective is to shorten the lead time for 
our products. This is being achieved by improved
product development, more efficient logistics 
and merchandising processes and increased
frequency of our buying cycles. We believe that
these initiatives will help Debenhams continue to
improve stock availability, reduce markdowns and
drive faster stock-turns.
The £27 million investment in a new 700,000 sq ft
distribution centre in Peterborough has also
improved our logistics operations and will
underpin the growth of the Company as new
stores open over the next few years.
Store portfolio
New department stores
Although Debenhams is a well established and
respected brand, we only have 132 stores in the
UK and Republic of Ireland, which is substantially
less than some of our competitors. We believe
that there is the potential to increase the number
of our department stores up to 240. Since 
4 September 2005, in addition to the Roche
acquisition (see below), we have opened six new
department stores. Currently we have 24 contracts
signed for new department stores which will
increase our trading space by 17.5 per cent to 
11.8 million sq ft.
Our property team continues to focus on
developing new opportunities for our expansion
programme and negotiations are progressing on 
a strong pipeline of new sites.
Products and supply chain
Our exclusive Designers at Debenhams ranges are
a key differentiator for our Company. Consumers
today are more stylish and design conscious than
ever before. Our strategy of working closely with
the designers who create leading collections 
enables us to bring exciting and stylish products
with designer branding straight from the catwalk
to a wider audience at affordable prices. During
the year, we have continued to extend our
exclusive designer ranges into more stores and
into new product areas. New ranges have been
developed with a number of our established
designers such as the J by Jasper Conran Ten Year
Limited Collection which showcases some of the
finest fabrics and designs in limited quantities. 
The arrival of these new limited collections allows 
us to stretch our pricing architecture and to test
new boundaries for Debenhams.
We continue to extend our Designers at
Debenhams collection with a new accessory 
and home range from Betty Jackson, a children’s
range from Julien McDonald and an exciting new
menswear range from Jeff Banks.
Our focus on developing our own exclusive
brands alongside our Designers at Debenhams
ranges has led to a stronger sales participation
from our own-bought merchandise which in 
turn has had a positive impact on our margins 
for the year.
The strengthening of our internal design office
and our buying teams, together with the opening
of a new sourcing office in Turkey, will allow us 
to continue to build on our existing own-brand
collections. We will source more of our own
product direct from suppliers improving both 
our speed to market and stock availability.
Jasmine Guinness models latest designs from the J by
Jasper Conran Ten Year Limited Collection 9
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Acquisition from Roches stores
Since the year end, Debenhams has completed
the acquisition of nine department stores in the
Republic of Ireland. These leasehold stores were
bought from Roches Stores for a consideration 
of 129.0 million, payable in three instalments over 
a two-year period. We also purchased the trading
stock.
This acquisition, alongside our existing stores in
the Republic of Ireland, gives us a strong presence
in the country. Over the next year we will convert
these stores into the Debenhams trading format.
Desire by Debenhams
Debenhams opened its first Desire by Debenhams
store in Truro in June 2005. This is a new smaller
concept store featuring a mix of women’s fashion,
accessories, lingerie and cosmetics which offers 
a differentiated proposition in locations which
would not sustain a full department store.
Five Desire by Debenhams stores are now trading
in Falkirk, Orpington, South Shields, Truro and
Birmingham Fort. They have been tested in
challenging markets and are delivering higher
margins and sales densities than the main chain.
Contracts for an additional four stores have also
been signed and ultimately Debenhams believes
there is potential for up to 100 of these stores
across the UK.
International
Debenhams is expanding internationally with 
a franchise model and has 30 stores in 14 different
countries. A further 16 stores are contracted to
open by the end of the 2009 financial year.
Debenhams has business plans with franchisees
for a large number of additional stores, 12 of
which are in an advanced stage of negotiation. 
By 2010 we anticipate that we will have 70
international franchise stores, with the further
potential to develop the Debenhams and Desire
by Debenhams concept overseas.
Our store portfolio now consists of:
132 department stores
5 Desire by Debenhams 
30 international stores
Refurbishment programme
During the year we completed the refurbishment
of 14 stores. The programme is designed to
improve both the linear conversion and visual
merchandising across the store as well as
establishing strong delineation of our brands.
Results achieved from these refits and the
customer feedback have been very positive. 
We plan to continue to invest in our store
portfolio and at least another ten stores will 
be refurbished during this financial year.
Other sales/revenue channels
During the year, we have invested in a £7 million
upgrade of our website. We believe that this
investment will enable Debenhams to make
significant improvements compared to our
existing site and allow us to capture a greater
share of this ever-growing market. Our
development programme for multi-channel
retailing will extend the availability of our ranges
to a wider audience and provide the necessary
platform for the development of niche micro-sites
for our products.
Debenhams already has one of the UK’s leading
wedding gift services, which can be further
enhanced by the developments being made 
to our website.
Outlook
Debenhams has over the past ten years
consistently grown its profits, sales and market
share. These results demonstrate that, even in a
challenging market, our Company can continue 
to grow.
We have an excellent business, have invested in
our infrastructure and, with our store opening
programme and other growth initiatives, remain
confident about the outlook for our Company.
Rob Templeman
Chief Executive
24 October 2006
Kuwait Souk Sharq. One of our inernational franchise stores
in Kuwait
9
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
consectetuer adipiscing elit. Praesent
viverra ullamcorper leo. Suspendisse
potenti. Duis vitae mi vitae enim
aliquam blandit. Ut risus nunc,
ullamcorper id, commodo at, eleifen
Celebrity model Jade Jagger was chosen 
to promote the new Adore Moi lingerie collection 
launched in September 2006
10
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
