 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 2
SEPTEMBER 2006
The year began with the acquisition of nine Roches
stores (on 12 September) giving an additional
575,000 sq ft of retail space and increasing the
number of Debenhams employees by c 1,500. This
grew our presence in the Republic of Ireland to
12 stores.
FEBRUARY 2007
The second half of the year saw greater focus on product, including
the launch of Mantaray across menswear and older kids, a new brand
for Debenhams.
A womens fashion range, Gorgeous, specialising in sizes 16-26, was
introduced.
Other new Designers introduced during the year included Melissa
Odabash in womens’ swimwear and accessories, along with Betty
Jackson, Julien Macdonald and Jeff Banks in home furnishings. At the
end of the year, Baker by Ted Baker was introduced to childrenswear,
an exclusive brand to Debenhams.
In March we opened a new store
in Bucharest, Romania. We also
opened stores in Kuwait, Mecca
and Moscow, bringing the
international franchise portfolio
to 34 stores in 15 countries
at year end.
<
MARCH 2007
JANUARY 2007
New technology to improve service levels was
trialled in two stores, switching time away from
administrative tasks such as manual product pricing
to customer facing interaction.
The new price change management system was
rolled out during the Summer which enabled clear
and accurate pricing, resulting in faster sell through
at first markdown.
NOVEMBER 2006
The website was re-launched
improving Debenhams’ ability
to cope with growing levels of
demand within this environment.
In the last quarter of the year
we achieved a like-for-like sales
increase of 62.8 per cent. This
would not have been possible
without the greater stability
and capacity of the new site.
>
>
<
>
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 2
YEAR IN BRIEF
DURING THE YEAR WE HAVE INVESTED IN ALL ASPECTS
OF OUR BUSINESS – PRODUCTS, STORES, MARKETING AND
INFRASTRUCTURE – TO FOCUS ON MEETING THE NEEDS
OF OUR CUSTOMERS. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 3
SEPTEMBER 2007
The new press and store marketing campaign was approved for the
2007/08 financial year, featuring a “clubs” theme.
The Company continues to strive to reduce the impact of its business
on the environment. In June 2007, we introduced 100 per cent
recycled (post consumer waste) carrier bags into all stores.
>
AUGUST 2007
Walton-on-Thames Desire store was opened. This brought the total
number of Desire stores opened during the year to five, the others
being Birmingham Fort, Merthyr, Kirkaldy and Altrincham. The total
portfolio of Desire stores has more than doubled in the year increasing
from four to nine stores.
JUNE 2007
Success at the Prima High Street
Awards retaining the best
eveningwear category and Betty
Jackson winning best designer.
Subsequently we have won best
department store at the
Company High Street Awards.
MAY 2007
The store refit programme was both accelerated and upgraded with a new premium feel. Uxbridge was the
first store to benefit from this new look. The modernisation particularly focused on redesigned visuals to
enhance Debenhams own brand product. Nine stores were completed with the new feel by the end of the
year and a further 12 are in progress.
The Warrington store opened in May 2007. This was the final department store opening of the year and
brought the total number of department stores to 133 at the year end.
<
>
>
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 3
