 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DEBENHAMS IS A REALLY STRONG BUSINESS AND WE PRIZE
OUR STATUS AS ONE OF THE WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED
AND SUCCESSFUL DEPARTMENT STORE GROUPS AS WE
CONTINUE TO STYLE THE NATION.
Let me tell you how I see the current
and future position of our Company.
The board of directors is very proud
of Debenhams and what has been
achieved in the business over the last
few years. I want to assure you that
we have the long-term future and
value of our business at the core of all
our thinking and actions.
Debenhams is a really strong business
and we prize our status as one of the
world’s most admired and successful
department store groups as we
continue to style the nation.
The Chief Executive’s report spells out
how we performed last year. I want to
talk about three very important issues;
investment in the store environment,
our product range and our people.
From 2004 to 2006 our capital spending
was directed towards acquiring and
re-branding the Allders and Roches
stores. We also accelerated our store
opening programme, launched Desire,
invested in our online offering and
expanded our international operations.
In 2007 we needed to turn our attention
to reinvesting in our older stores, some
of which were beginning to look a little
tired. We are now working our way
through the estate and will spend
a substantial amount of this year’s
£150 million capital budget on the
refurbishment of existing stores.
Within the next 18 months we expect
to have refitted most of the chain so
that we will be able to offer all our
customers a modern, hassle-free
shopping experience which does justice
to our designer merchandise.
In some product categories we faced
a marked pick-up in high street price
deflation last year, brought about
by the rapid growth of discounters.
On occasions we were not offering
customers the value for money for
which our business is known. This was
especially true in menswear. In addition
our fashion and style leadership in
menswear and some women’s clothing
was challenged by re-awakening
competition. Whilst it was hard for us
to address this in the Spring/Summer
season as the buying process had been
completed, we have since acted. We are
now confident that the Autumn/Winter
ranges are on trend, correctly priced
and available in depth. As a result we
are now competitive in terms of style,
quality and value. The reinvestment
required to achieve this may have cost
some margin but it is certainly the right
long-term decision.
Finally, the board must ensure we have
the right team in place to move the
business forward.
We have undertaken a thorough review
of our buying and merchandising
operations. Several people have left
the business but, more importantly,
we have attracted a raft of talent from
across the high street and promoted
many of our high potential middle
and senior managers. The culture is
re-energised and ready for the future.
In stores, we have appointed three new
regional sales directors alongside 25
new store managers during the year.
Internal promotion combined with
external recruitment has generated an
excellent mix of ambition and experience.
We have had a tough year. It has been
painful but we are stronger after the
sharp message we received from our
customers. We have made operational
changes but we will not be deflected
from our long-term strategic aims.
We should also be proud of what we
achieved. We made an EBITDA margin
+21.2%
Growth in sales over the past
three years.
JOHN LOVERING Chairman Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 5
of 12.6 per cent after full market rent and
not many rivals can come close to that.
We have grown sales by 21.2 per cent
over three years and we have secured
new space to increase our footage by
14.2 per cent over the next three years.
Our direction is set. Space expansion
through new department stores, the roll
out of our Desire small store format and
our overseas franchise programme
continues. Our multi-channel business,
benefiting from our new website, is
showing strong sales and profit growth.
We have every confidence in our
business and our people. Against that
backdrop the board is recommending
a final dividend of 3.8 pence per share
to make a first full year dividend for the
Company of 6.3 pence per share.
We have started the new financial year
in good shape. Like-for-like sales in the
first seven weeks were up 2.1 per cent
(excluding Roches) despite the disruption
from a high number of stores undergoing
+14.2%
Planned increase in footage over
the next three years.
Above: The new and exclusive
Jeff Banks Jeans collection for
menswear, launched this
Autumn. Part of a major initiative
to ensure that our menswear
offer is competitive in terms of
style, quality and value.
Below: Our re-sited store in
Exeter, opened in September
2007. The new store provides
a dramatically improved
shopping experience for our
customers and increases
trading space by 31,000 sq ft.
refits. Our gross margin is increasing.
We have some world class competitors
for the customers’ purse in a tough
market. The internet is a real rival to the
high street and as everyone knows the
macro economy will get more difficult.
History says that department stores are
more resilient and less volatile through
the economic cycle. We know that the
best management teams who are
working hardest and listening most to
their customers will win and progress.
It is my job on your behalf to make sure
that this description fits Debenhams.
I would like to thank all of my colleagues
throughout the business whose efforts
and commitment last year and every
year mean that we have the best chance
of achieving this objective.
John Lovering
Chairman
23 October 2007
