 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
ALL AREAS OF THE BUSINESS WERE REVIEWED WITH THE
CLEAR OBJECTIVE OF ENSURING THAT ISSUES RAISED WERE
DEALT WITH FOR THE NEW AUTUMN/WINTER SEASON AND
NEW 2007/08 FINANCIAL YEAR.
For the year ending 1 September
2007 Debenhams gross transaction
value grew by £112.7 million to
£2,305.6 million. The primary driver
of sales growth was a total of 792,000
sq ft in new space being added to the
store portfolio. Nine stores were
acquired from Roches in the Republic
of Ireland. Eight other stores were
opened including five Desire stores
and one re-site in Wigan.
Merchandise sales growth by product
category was varied with a better
performance achieved in a number
of areas including health & beauty and
accessories. Unfortunately this growth
was offset by weaker sales from clothing
ranges, in particular menswear. This
resulted in an overall disappointing year
for the Company with a like-for-like sales
decline of 5.0 per cent and profit before
tax and exceptional items of £127.5 million
compared to £112.8 million achieved in
the previous year. Although the overall
retail environment became far more
competitive and challenging
throughout the year, it also became
apparent that some areas of the
Company had to be improved before
we could regain sales momentum.
Against this background of increasing
competition, all areas of the business –
the store portfolio, the customer
experience in store, products and the
supply chain and marketing – were
reviewed during the second half of the
year with the clear objective of ensuring
any issues raised were dealt with in time
for the new Autumn/Winter season and
new financial year. This work also served
to reconfirm our principal growth
strategies which can be summarised
under four key headings:
1 Space expansion both in the UK and
internationally
2 Improving the store environment and
customer shopping experience
3 Product innovation, design, quality
and value for money
4 Growing our online business and
other technology investments
Store portfolio
Department stores
Although Debenhams has a heritage
of over 100 years in retailing, with only
135 department stores trading across
the UK and the Republic of Ireland we
remain under-represented in some key
shopping locations. Our property team
has been very active in securing new
stores for our expansion programme.
During the year we acquired nine
department stores from Roches stores in
the Republic of Ireland, opened new
department stores in Llandudno
and Warrington and re-sited our Wigan
store, increasing its overall footage by
22,000 sq ft. Since the year end, we have
opened two small new stores in Llanelli
and Welwyn Garden City and re-sited
our Exeter and Derby stores, increasing
their footage by 48,000 sq ft. Today we
have 135 department stores and overall
trading space, including our Desire store
portfolio, of 10.4 million sq ft.
135
Current number of department
stores.
ROB TEMPLEMAN Chief Executive
10.4m sq ft
Current overall trading space.
OPEN> Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 7
Above: Designers at Debenhams home, Rocha. John Rocha bedding. Right: Living accessories from
a range at Debenhams home.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 8
Above: Designers at Debenhams
Accessories, Sequin beret from
Star by Julien Macdonald. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 9
Left: Julien Macdonald opens the
new Desire store in Merthyr Tydfil,
one of five new Desire stores that
opened during the year. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 10
Below: One of the stunning images used in the new “club” marketing
campaign launched in September.
Above: Designers such as Julien Macdonald bring
the latest styles and trends to a wider audience.
Idol by Julien Macdonald.
Above: Within clothing ranges we have invested
in better fabrics, improved styling and improved
design content. J Jeans by Jasper Conran. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 11
Below: Mantaray, new and
exclusive to Debenhams
menswear.
< OPEN Currently we have a strong pipeline
of new contracted department stores
which when opened will add an
additional 1.8 million sq ft of prime
retail space to our portfolio.
Desire
In the year we opened five of our
smaller Desire stores in Birmingham
Fort, Kirkcaldy, Merthyr, Altrincham and
Walton-on-Thames bringing the total
trading to nine.
Contracts have been exchanged on
a further four Desire stores.
International stores
Our successful international franchise
stores play an important part in
extending the global reach of our brand
and awareness of our product ranges.
Over the past 12 months new
international stores have opened in
Bucharest, Moscow, Kuwait and Mecca.
At year end we had 34 stores trading
from 15 countries across the world.
In the new financial year we anticipate
further store openings in India, Jordan,
Cyprus, Romania, the Middle East and
the Philippines.
Store development – improving the
customer experience
The board is committed to investing for
the long-term growth of the business.
Over the past three years, our capital
expenditure has been primarily focused
on new stores and infrastructure
improvements. This includes our new
distribution facility at Peterborough,
rebuilding our internet site, the
introduction of a radio frequency
platform across our store base and
numerous IT developments. We believe
that these investments will serve the
company and its shareholders well by
providing a sound foundation for the
development of the business.
We have always acknowledged that
some of our older stores were in need of
refurbishment, particularly those which
have been in the portfolio for many
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
0
2
6
4
8
10
14
12
16
2006 2007 2008 2009
57k Trading space sq ft 127k 141k 183k
Open at beginning of year New during the year
Number of stores
4
4
9
10
5
1
3
36
Current number of International
stores
Desire store openings
Contracted department store openings
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
2006 2007 2008 2009 20102011
9.4m
Trading space sq ft
10.1m 10.5m 10.9m 11.5m 11.9m
Open at beginning of year New during the year
Number of stores
122122
133
138
144
153
11
5
6
9
6 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 13
years. Debenhams has for the past few
years been committed to a rolling
refurbishment programme.
We have been pleased with both sales
uplifts and return on investment from
our refurbished stores. The latest
iteration of this modernisation
programme has been based on the fit-
out contained in our successful Desire
format. The first of these stores based
in Uxbridge is trading well above our
internal expectations. As a result, the
board has decided to accelerate the
roll-out programme of refits so that
the majority of stores within our estate
will be refurbished within the next
two years.
At the year end our store estate can be
summarised as below:
Core 70
New 20
Refurbished 26
Ex-Roches 9
Desire 9
Ex-Allders 8
Over the past year there has been much
commentary about the capital spend
per sq ft that Debenhams deploys on
refurbishments. We firmly believe that
the key measurements of success for a
refurbished store are customer perception,
sales uplift and return on investment
rather than cost per sq ft. The board will
deploy whatever capital expenditure is
necessary to succeed against these
measures.
Products and supply chain
Debenhams is a multi-category
retailer with a bias to clothing across
womenswear, menswear, childrenswear
and lingerie. We also have a strong
presence in other product categories
such as health & beauty, accessories
and homewares.
Product innovation, style, quality and
value are critical to the success of any
retailer. Over the last six months an in-
depth review covering all brands has
been undertaken to ensure every
product in every brand delivers an
improved customer offer in each of
these areas. This is being executed
across all merchandise categories
throughout our Autumn/ Winter
collection but is particularly evident
within the clothing ranges.
We have reinvested some of our sourcing
gains into better fabrics, improved
styling and more design content over a
large part of our product portfolio at the
same or lower prices than last year.
Designers at Debenhams is a key
differentiator for our Company and has
evolved to become a large and
important part of our business. Buyers
and design teams work closely with
some of the country’s leading and
most talented designers such as,
Betty Jackson, Jasper Conran, Julien
Macdonald and John Rocha. Our aim
is to bring the latest styles and trends
from the catwalk to a wider audience at
affordable prices working with the very
people who create the fashion trends.
Our Designer ranges offer consumers
even greater value for the Autumn
season. More design features and
quality trimmings have been added to
the garments alongside the use of more
exclusive fabrics. The combination of
better quality merchandise with the
latest catwalk trends exclusively
designed by the country’s leading
fashion experts should enable our
Designers at Debenhams ranges to
make good progress over the next year.
We are particularly pleased with the
recent launch of a new and exclusive
range of childrenswear, Baker by Ted
Baker. The introduction of this range
from one of the nation’s most iconic
brands was the result of great
collaboration and hard work from
Ray Kelvin and his team at Ted Baker
alongside our own childrenswear
buying and design teams. Early
indications from the performance of this
range are very encouraging and we
have been extremely pleased with both
the customer and trade feedback. Initial results from this latest campaign
have been encouraging both in terms of
a brand projection but also through the
rate of sale of the lines featured.
Online
During the year we rebuilt and upgraded
the Debenhams website. Our investment
of £5.3 million means that Debenhams
can bring its product ranges to a
larger audience but also allows us to
develop niche micro-sites such as
health & beauty to cater for the ever
growing online demand.
The proportion of retail sales achieved
through the internet is forecast to grow
substantially over the next five years.
Broadband availability is expanding
rapidly and the older population is
shopping the internet with greater
frequency. The internet has become
an important and integral part of our
business. We believe that in the very
near future www.debenhams.com will
become our largest store.
We have seen substantial sales increases
from the new website. Our focus is now
to make significant improvements to
the design and marketing of the online
store to further improve sales and extend
the reach of our brand to areas of the
country not covered by our store estate.
IT developments
Debenhams has a very strong IT
platform and a significant proportion of
development is focused on projects to
improve customer service. We have
installed a radio frequency infrastructure
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 14
Our offices in Asia and Turkey are
increasing the level of direct product
sourcing and this is allowing us to re-
invest a proportion of the resulting
efficiency gains. That investment takes
place through a combination of further
improvement in the quality of our
products and directly passing some of
the gains made back to our customers
in new lower prices. We believe that
the strategy of constantly improving
product quality and value for money
will serve both our customers and our
Company well in the long term.
Marketing
One of the key strengths of Debenhams
is the choice that we offer our customers
and the broad appeal of our ranges. Our
customers are very focused on quality,
style and fashion and in particular
Designer brands at affordable prices.
Market research continues to highlight
breadth of range as a major influence in
determining where a consumer shops.
For any marketing campaign to
succeed the products have to be right.
The improvements we have made to
quality, style and value within our
ranges has now been communicated
through the latest interpretation of our
Styling the Nation campaign.
The campaign was launched in
September with our new club style
advertisements which are aimed at
demonstrating the breadth of choice
that Debenhams has to offer through its
exciting and stylish product portfolio.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 15
throughout our stores, which enables
us to radically improve clarity of pricing
in sale or promotional periods as well
as having the opportunity to change
rapidly the marketing of discontinued
or “markdown” products.
The introduction of the radio frequency
technology is the most radical change
implemented in our stores for many
years. It has reduced the number of
hours taken in managing price changes
and improved the clarity of our pricing
which we believe will lead to a faster sell
through on merchandise and improved
levels of customer service.
Alongside the price change management
system, in several stores we have also
installed applications known as “work
planner” and “management suite” . These
will enable our store management to
spend more time on the shop floor and
access key data immediately to improve
service levels.
Looking forward, the radio frequency
infrastructure which we have installed
into our stores will provide us with a
foundation onto which further
technology may be added.
Current trading
Despite wider concerns about the macro
economic environment and how this will
impact on the retail sector, we are
confident that the changes we are making
throughout Debenhams are benefiting
the business. Our new Autumn/Winter
ranges are being well received and this,
together with the refitting of stores and
previous investment in a new IT platform
and distribution centre, is improving the
customer experience. Our growth in like-
for-like sales and gross margin have both
been positive in the first seven weeks of
the new financial year even though there
has been some disruption from the
accelerated refurbishment programme.
We have also seen growth in market share
over the past 12 weeks according to the
latest TNS data.
Rob Templeman
Chief Executive
23 October 2007
Above: Designers at Debenhams
childrenswear, Butterfly by
Matthew Williamson.
Above: Radio frequency
infrastructure has now been
implemented in all stores. This
significantly improves efficiency,
allowing staff access to a wide
range of information including
stock availability, pricing and
merchandising standards.
