 O
ur strategy has in essence been quite simple: to oﬀer
our customers products that are better in terms of
quality, design and value and a more pleasant in-store
experience. Several pieces of data suggest we are
starting to get this right. First, our market share has
increased in all major categories over the course of the
year. This is backed up by the quantitative research we
ourselves conduct with customers on an ongoing basis. Secondly, our
scores in consumer perception studies carried out by third-party
researchers have improved considerably. Finally, our sales performance
for the year is amongst the best in the sector. So we have much to
encourage us that we are on the right track.
Let me give you my highlights of the year. One of these is undoubtedly
the opening of our new ﬂagship store in Liverpool at the end of May.
I would strongly recommend that shareholders who live nearby or are
travelling to the area take a look to see Debenhams at its best; the store
recently won two prestigious retail design awards which I am sure you will
agree were well deserved. The performance of Designers at Debenhams
is another highlight. You will read elsewhere in this annual report about
how we are expanding our designer mix throughout our product
categories to good eﬀect and capitalising on the real point of diﬀerence
Designers at Debenhams brings. The performance of own bought ranges
generally – not just Designers – was also a high spot as own bought
outperformed concessions throughout the store and the percentage of
own bought merchandise relative to concessions increased. Our direct
and international businesses have also grown strongly. Finally I want to
mention the landmark deal we have recently signed with Scottish Power
to supply all our UK stores and properties with electricity provided by wind
power. This is a big step forward in meeting our obligations to combat
climate change.
One area that we have been asked about many times in 2008 is
indebtedness. I want to stress that we enjoy excellent relationships
with our banks and our cost of debt is not only extremely competitive
but also largely at ﬁxed interest rates. However, we have listened to what
the market has been telling us and do believe that, given the present retail
climate and the uncertain macroeconomic outlook, it is right for us to
increase our focus on the balance sheet. To this end, a number of actions
have been instigated which will achieve a signiﬁcant reduction in gearing
over the next few years. There is more detail on these actions in the Chief
Executive’s Review and the Operating Review.
At the half year we oﬀered a scrip alternative to a cash dividend for the ﬁrst
time and some 45 per cent of shareholders chose to avail themselves of
this. We said at the time of the interim results in April that the board would
continue to monitor the dividend cover in light of the two times cover
target set at the time of the IPO in May 2006. The board has declared a full-
year dividend of 3.0 pence per share. We have taken this decision in light
of trading during 2008 and our current view of the Company’s prospects for
2009. We will again oﬀer a scrip alternative for the ﬁnal dividend of
0.5 pence per share.
The board recognises that the unprecedented and diﬃcult economic
environment is placing great demands on our people. We thank them
for their terriﬁc response and for their continuing support and loyalty
to Debenhams.
In conclusion, we made some very good progress in 2008. There is more
to do but we believe that from where we stand today we are as ready as
we can be for whatever 2009 brings.
JOHN LOVERING
Chairman
21 October 2008
A YEAR OF PROGRESS
The board is pleased to report that Debenhams made good progress in 2008 in
addressing many of the areas which had been identiﬁed for positive development,
this despite it being a very difﬁcult year for the whole retail sector. That progress
should stand us in good stead as we move into a very uncertain period for the UK
consumer. We have an experienced, resilient management team, perhaps the best
equipped in the sector to take us through difﬁcult times.
JOHN
LOVERING
CHAIRMAN
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Section 1 Overview MAIN IMAGE
J by Jasper Conran shirt and
cardigan set.
+1.3%
INCREASE IN GROSS
TRANSACTION VALUE
+0.3%
INCREASE IN TOTAL
CLOTHING MARKET SHARE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 MAIN IMAGE
Grey Rose by Jane Packer
silver wreath.
+8.0%
INCREASE IN DESIGNERS
AT DEBENHAMS SALES
71.8%
OWN BOUGHT SALES MIX
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6
