 DRIVING STRATEGY FORWARD
DESPITE A DIFFICULT MARKET
Our ongoing investment in product design, quality and value, plus the
differentiation of our exclusive designer ranges, has resulted in market share gains
both overall and for each major clothing category and enabled us to deliver
a creditable sales performance given the retail climate.
ROB
TEMPLEMAN
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE
Review of 2008
Gross transaction value of £2,336 million was 1.3 per cent higher than last
year, with a contribution from new space oﬀsetting a like-for-like sales fall
of 0.9 per cent. EBITDA of £269 million resulted in proﬁt before tax of
£110.1 million (after adding back £4.2 million of amortisation of capitalised
bank fees), which was in line with market expectations. Gross margin was
maintained at the same level as last year. Net debt stood at £994 million at
the year end, an improvement of £22.5 million over the prior year. We
gained market share in all major clothing categories and our total clothing
share increased by 0.3 per cent.
In last year’s annual report we outlined four principal growth strategies.
Despite the diﬃcult macroeconomic environment, we continue to believe
that these growth strategies are the right ones for the business. We have
added one more strategic strand during the course of 2008, deleveraging
the balance sheet.
PRODUCT INNOVATION, DESIGN, QUALITY AND VALUE
FOR MONEY
The growth in market share in all major clothing categories achieved
during the year is largely a result of product improvement and innovation.
Overall, our total clothing market share growth was 0.3 per cent.
Starting with the Autumn/Winter collections which arrived in stores in
September 2007, our products have oﬀered customers improved design,
quality and value at all price points. We have done this by increasing the
design content and using better fabrics and adding what we term
“blindingly obvious quality clues”such as contrast linings and facings and
superior buttons and trims. At the same time we have held prices and in
some cases, particularly Menswear, reduced prices to ensure they deliver
appropriate value.
Designers at Debenhams is an important point of diﬀerence. In 2008,
designer ranges were some of the best performers and designer sales
increased by 8 per cent, ahead of gross transaction value growth of
1.3 per cent, as many customers sought to trade up to the quality and
durability these products oﬀer.
You can read more about Designers at Debenhams in the insert on page 17.
SPACE EXPANSION
Expanding the store portfolio continues to be a key driver of growth,
despite the prevailing economic conditions. Although 23 additional stores
(excluding re-sites) have been opened in the past four years, Debenhams
continues to be relatively immature in terms of store numbers.
Seven new department stores opened in 2008 plus three re-sited
department stores and one new Desire store. We remain committed to
the Desire small store format but believe that the higher returns delivered
by department stores mean that we should allocate capital into that
format ﬁrst in order to deliver greater shareholder value. The performance
of all new stores opened during the year has at least met our expectations
and in many cases exceeded them in a diﬃcult market.
We are able to achieve excellent returns on capital from opening new
stores and they are likely to be an important driver of shareholder value in
the future. In 2008 return on capital was some 56 per cent (deﬁned as ﬁrst
year store EBITDA as a percentage of net capital investment including
working capital). These superior returns stem from improved operating
performance and disciplined and eﬀective capital expenditure.
The new department store opened in Livingston on 16 October 2008. A
further four department stores, two Desire stores and one major store
extension are due to open in 2009. These include the 109,000 sq ft ﬂagship
store at Westﬁeld London which opens on 30 October 2008. Further out,
whilst there have been a few instances of retail developments being
delayed or even cancelled as property developers are aﬀected by the
credit crunch, we do not believe this to be a threat to our strategy.
You can read more about store openings, in particular the Liverpool
ﬂagship store, and the store pipeline in the insert on page 11.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
Section 1 Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8
Section 1 Overview
IMPROVING THE STORE ENVIRONMENT AND CUSTOMER
SHOPPING EXPERIENCE
Customer research has told us that the key driver of customer loyalty is
product range, followed by price and quality. However, we found that
although we have one of the largest product ranges on the high street,
this did not always translate into positive customer perception. In short,
our product range was becoming too big and customers in fact want
edited choice.
We have sought to address this by oﬀering fewer, bigger brands which
cover the complete spectrum of how customers dress from casual
weekends through to work and on to special occasions. This has resulted
in a 15 per cent reduction in stock options which translates into a 10.5 per
cent reduction in same store stock density and, at the same time, better
availability of bestselling lines. Working at tighter stock levels has beneﬁts
beyond customer satisfaction as it results in working capital
improvements and hopefully in lower markdown which should feed
through to gross margin. You can read more about how we have improved
the customer experience in the insert on page 23.
We have continued to make progress in refurbishing core stores. Having
refurbished 18 stores in the ﬁrst half of this year, in the second half we
slowed the programme in order to manage the inevitable disruption to
sales caused during the refurbishment period. As a result, a total of 19
stores were reﬁtted during 2008. It remains our intention to refurbish the
remaining 40 or so core stores over the next few years, with the pace
depending on the retail climate.
We are committed to improving the environment in every store and all
stores have beneﬁted from new J by Jasper Conran, Star by Julien
Macdonald and Collection shop ﬁts so that the merchandising of these
brands complements the work done on the products.
GROWING OUR ONLINE BUSINESS AND OTHER
TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS
Our online business, www.debenhams.com, continues to grow strongly
and we believe that within a few years it will be our single largest store.
Online sales increased by 60.8 per cent in 2008 and visitor numbers were
up by 51.9 per cent. You can read more about the development of the
online business in the insert on page 25.
Other technology investments also started to bear fruit in 2008. The radio
frequency (RF) network is helping to improve the customer experience by
giving us more hours to invest in customer service, ensuring clarity of
pricing and improving the store environment by reducing the need for
promotional signage. At the same time, RF can deliver a positive impact
on gross margin, particularly in sale periods when more product is sold
at ﬁrst markdown.
DELEVERAGING THE BALANCE SHEET
As the economic and retail climate has deteriorated over the past year,
market sentiment towards Debenhams’ capital structure has weakened
and the level of debt on our balance sheet appears to be negatively
impacting valuations of the Company. We therefore believe that in order
to maximise shareholder value in the current environment, it is important
that leverage should be taken oﬀ the agenda for Debenhams as soon as
possible. A number of actions have been undertaken to achieve this; they
are described in more detail in the Operating Review on page 21.
2009 preview
In 2009, our focus will be on managing the business in what is widely
expected to be a diﬃcult economic and retail environment. Historically,
department stores have been fairly steady performers through the
economic cycle as they beneﬁt from the resilience of departments such as
health and beauty, the ability to ﬂex the use of space within stores and a
loyal account customer base.
Whilst we would expect to beneﬁt from at least some of these in the
current cycle, we still need to manage through the downturn proactively
in a number of ways.
First, we must recognise how customers’ needs change in a period of
downturn and then ensure that we meet those changing needs.
Customers are likely to become far more discerning in their purchasing,
being careful about their clothing purchases and looking for items that
can be worn in multiple ways for multiple seasons rather than fast fashion
items with limited longevity. At the same time, customers are apt to treat
themselves to small indulgences in order to make them feel better. We
believe our unique mix of products, ranging from everyday essentials at
competitive prices to the aﬀordable luxury of Designers at Debenhams
enables us to meet changing shopping habits. Providing value at every
price point through the product improvement measures described above
will be key.
Secondly, we need to ensure the appropriate allocation of resources
within the business. This involves the tight management of stock, costs
and capital expenditure. We must be alert to cost price inﬂation in the
supply chain and proactively manage the mitigating factors – ensuring
“right product, right country” , currency hedging, optimising container ﬁll
and costs, having the right mix of landed and FOB suppliers – so that we
can continue to deliver superior value to customers at the same time as
protecting our margin.
Thirdly, we will invest prudently for the future in higher returning projects,
including new store openings.
Finally, we must ensure our balance sheet and cost base continue to be
managed robustly so that the Company can emerge from the diﬃcult
trading environment in the strongest possible position.
CURRENT TRADING
The ﬁrst few weeks of the new ﬁnancial year have been characterised by
unprecedented turmoil in ﬁnancial markets, attracting massive media
interest, which has in turn heightened concerns of customers about their
own ﬁnancial security. This has undoubtedly had a negative impact on the
performance of Debenhams. Against this background, sales for the six
weeks to 11 October 2008 were 1.0 per cent lower than last year. Like-for-
like sales for this period were down 4.2 per cent on the previous year.
These comparisons are against a strong opening six weeks last year when
total sales grew by 3.9 per cent and like-for-like sales by 2.1 per cent. Gross
margin for the six-week period was 50bp higher than last year and gross
cash margin was ﬂat.
ROB TEMPLEMAN
Chief Executive
21 October 2008 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
MAIN IMAGE
St. George by Duﬀer beige
cardigan with diamond detail,
Mantaray chocolate T-shirt,
Mantaray blue shirt, Rocha.John
Rocha baker boy cap.
+60.8%
INCREASE IN DIRECT
SALES
19 in 2008
STORES MODERNISED
