 4
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
our choice of structure was vindicated as the ﬁrm placing element
was several times oversubscribed and the discount was one of the
lowest seen amongst the raft of capital raisings undertaken across the
market during the ﬁrst half of the calendar year 2009.
The board did not declare an interim dividend for 2009, nor has it
proposed a ﬁnal dividend for the year. however, we are committed
to returning to paying a dividend as soon as it is ﬁnancially prudent
to do so.
We were delighted to welcome two new non-executive directors to the
board at the beginning of august. Martina King was formerly
Managing Director, europe of Yahoo Limited and we therefore
particularly look forward to her input as we seek to move our multi-
channel business forward. sophie Turner Laing, currently Managing
Director, entertainment and news at British sky Broadcasting plc,
will provide valuable insight in the areas of media and marketing.
as we have announced today, we also look forward to welcoming nigel
northridge to the board as a non-executive director in January 2010.
nigel spent 32 years with gallaher group plc, becoming the group
chief executive in 2000, a position in which he oversaw signiﬁcant
growth in shareholder value.
i would like to thank richard gillingwater, peter Long, Jonathan Feuer
and philippe costeletos who left the board during the year for their
important contributions to the business.
i have today announced that i intend to stand down from my role as
chairman and will retire from the board on 31 March 2010, thereby
providing ample time to appoint my successor. i am proud of what
has been achieved over the past six years and we have set the direction
for a sound future. Debenhams is a well managed, properly ﬁnanced
company with a clear and successful strategy and a number of
exciting development opportunities. senior
management has a deservedly high reputation
and there is a great depth of talent throughout
the company. our board functions well, its
members have wide experience, high intellect
and diverse backgrounds. i believe our
operational and ﬁnancial controls are best in
class. i hope my successor enjoys the role as
much as i have.
Looking forward, whilst the board remains
cautious about the wider macro economic
environment, our company has performed well in what has been an
unprecedented tumult throughout 2009.We continue to have a self help
plan which is being rigorously executed and will maintain our drive to
focus on cash margin.
The board would like to thank every member of the Debenhams team
for rising to the challenge we have faced and helping us to emerge
from very testing times as a stronger business.We, as shareholders, are
very fortunate to have such loyal and hard-working employees whose
contribution in the past couple of years has been immense.
Without doubt, the 12 months to september 2009 will be remembered
as one of the most difﬁcult years for the UK retail sector in
generations. The collapse of conﬁdence in the banking sector last
autumn sent shockwaves through the high street which continue to
reverberate today. our ﬁnancial year coincided with the worst of this
period following the collapse of Lehman Brothers which occurred just
three weeks into the year.
Despite this, we emerged stronger. our balance sheet has been
restructured thanks to our successful capital raising. our market share
has increased and our business model has strengthened. our goals of
increasing own brand penetration, growing internet sales and building
our international footprint have all been progressed.
We had foreseen a very tough year.We planned our business on lower
sales and a reduced level of stock purchases. We focused on cash
margin rather than sales growth. We put even more emphasis on
delivering outstanding value. our own bought ranges, especially
Designers, performed much better than concessions, reﬂecting the
signiﬁcant improvements our design and buying teams have delivered
in these ranges, giving us the conﬁdence to undertake the biggest
expansion of own bought space Debenhams
has ever seen. We introduced new brands and
departments across the store, targeted at areas
where we believe there are further market share
opportunities for us. We opened ﬁve new stores
in the UK, creating a very welcome 800 new jobs.
a further 11 new international franchise stores
were also opened in eight countries.
Ultimately the success of our strategy can be
seen in that in this difﬁcult year we generated
more proﬁt than last year. only a handful of
other retailers will be able to say this. The board believes this is a
signiﬁcant achievement for which the entire Debenhams team should
be commended.
as a board, we had said for some time that one of our key goals was
to remove leverage as an issue for Debenhams so that our focus—and
indeed the wider world’s—could return to operational and strategic
issues rather than the balance sheet.T o this end, we launched a capital
raising in June.We chose to do this through a placing and open offer
route due to the unusual nature of the shareholder register.
“…in this difficult
year we generated
more PROFIT
than last year…”
John Lovering
Chairman
22 october 2009
chairMan’s sTaTeMenT
—Detailing our Progress and Results 5
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
The iMporTance
oF DeTaiL
Detail is about helping
customers to create
the perfect ensemble
effortlessly. Jacket,
trousers, waistcoat, shirt,
tie, shoes and handkerchief
all by Jeff Banks at
Designers at Debenhams.
