 Section 2
The Business
6
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Review
Designers at Debenhams 
continued to be some of our 
best-performing brands in 2010, 
including Rocha.John Rocha 
(left). Section 2
The Business
7
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
increased signiﬁcantly. Further, sterling deteriorated 
against the US dollar – a key currency for sourcing in 
many parts of the world, especially China – in the 
autumn of 2009 and spring of 2010, reaching a  
low in May 2010, subsequent to which it has seen 
some recovery.
There were some clear peaks and troughs in terms 
of trading levels through the year. The year started 
well in autumn 2009 but warmer weather in October 
impacted outerwear sales. The peak trading season 
in November and December held up reasonably 
well. There were concerns over the impact of snow 
on the post-Christmas sale but in the event these 
proved to be unfounded. The early summer was 
impacted by the World Cup and customer caution 
ahead of the new government’s emergency budget 
but trading levels recovered to more normal levels in 
July and August. The Republic of Ireland continued 
to be a tough market throughout the year but 
activity levels appear to have stabilised after several 
quarters of decline.
Performance Highlights
Overall, we were pleased with the performance of 
the business in 2010. We said at the outset that it 
was a year of structural change following the 
extensive shift in the sales mix during the last quarter 
of 2009 and therefore a year when we would judge 
the business on proﬁt rather than sales. This was 
borne out in the results for the year which saw 
headline proﬁt before tax increase by 20.6 per cent 
over the prior year to £151.0 million (note: headline 
proﬁt before tax is after adding back £5.7 million  
of amortisation of capitalised bank fees and 
exceptional items of £5.4 million).
Market Conditions
The retail environment remained challenging 
throughout 2010, continuing the cautious trends of 
2009. Consumers were unsettled by downbeat 
ﬁnancial and economic news from around the 
world which had a direct impact on spending 
decisions on the high street. Consumer conﬁdence 
data suggests that consumers were more optimistic 
in the ﬁrst half of the ﬁnancial year, reaching a peak 
for the period in February, before falling away in  
the second half (source: Nationwide Consumer 
Conﬁdence Index). On a more positive note, interest 
rates remained low in the UK meaning many 
consumers with mortgages still enjoyed some level 
of higher disposable income which to a certain 
extent offset concerns over unemployment and 
government ﬁnances.
Overall, the total clothing market by value increased 
by 1.3 per cent during 2010. However, this appears  
to have been a function of price increases rather 
than underlying market growth. Average selling 
prices increased by 4.0 per cent whilst volumes 
decreased by 2.7 per cent (source for all data: 
Kantar Worldpanel Fashion 24 weeks market share 
data to 5 September 2010 vs 2009). The increase in 
selling prices accelerated as the year progressed, 
driven by a number of factors, most notably higher 
cost prices in the supply chain, as well as an increase 
in VAT from January 2010. A poor cotton harvest in a 
number of countries led to sharp increases in raw 
cotton prices during 2010 which in turn increased 
the cost of cotton fabrics. Synthetic fabric prices also 
increased. There were capacity concerns in some 
countries such as Bangladesh, which experienced 
some high-proﬁle labour relations issues too. Labour 
costs were also increasing in other countries, most 
notably in parts of China. In addition, freight prices 
Overall we were 
pleased with the 
performance of  
the business 
in 2010.
Rob T empleman
Chief Executive
21 October 2010 Section 2
The Business
8
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
These Bluezoo squirters are sure to be on many children’s wishlists 
for Christmas this year.
 Space expansion
 Multi-channel development
 Balance sheet management
Product Strategy
The aim of our product strategy is to ensure we have 
the right products available for customers to buy at 
the right time and at the right price. In a crowded 
high street, it is our product strategy that offers a 
point of difference through our unique mix of own 
bought and concession brands.
Over the last 18 months we have been pursuing  
a product strategy that focuses on own bought 
brands – principally private label and Designers  
at Debenhams – rather than concession brands. 
Own bought brands are attractive because they 
generate higher margins than concessions and 
allow us total control over product ranges. For 2010, 
own bought sales accounted for 80.2 per cent of 
total sales (excluding Magasin). Whilst own bought 
sales will vary by store – brand new stores are already 
at over 90 per cent own bought whereas larger, 
older stores will always have a higher concession 
mix – our medium-term target for the whole estate  
is 85 per cent own bought sales, 15 per cent 
concession sales.
Towards the end of 2009, we converted 530,000 
square feet of trading space from concessions to 
own bought. This space increase was achieved in a 
number of ways. First, several new own bought 
brands were introduced, including Mantaray and 
Butterﬂy by Matthew Williamson in womenswear and 
Bluezoo in childrenswear. Secondly, some existing 
brands were extended into other categories, such as 
There was progress on the sales line too,  
with gross transaction value up by 9.6 per cent 
including Magasin du Nord (“Magasin”), the Danish 
department store group acquired during the course 
of the year, and by 1.4 per cent excluding Magasin. 
Like-for-like sales for the year were ﬂat. We said 
throughout the year that like-for-like sales in 2010 
would be impacted by some 1.5 per cent due to our 
strategy of improving gross margins by increasing 
the penetration of own bought sales which involved 
the conversion of over 530,000 square feet of trading 
space from concessions to own bought in the fourth 
quarter of 2009.
Market share gains were made in menswear and 
childrenswear increasing by 50 basis points and 20 
basis points respectively to 5.1 per cent and 3.9 per 
cent. Our overall fashion share increased by 20 basis 
points to 4.6 per cent. Womenswear share was 
impacted by lower sales densities arising out of last 
year’s sales moves and as a result is unchanged at 
5.5 per cent. This impact will fall away as we move 
into the ﬁrst quarter of 2011. (Source for market share 
data: Kantar Worldpanel Fashion 24 weeks’ market 
share data to 5 September 2010 vs. 2009.)
The multi-channel business continued to grow with 
Debenhams Direct sales up 88.4 per cent to £103.8 
million. Much of this growth was driven by our 
ongoing strategy of integrating the store business 
with the online business.
Strategy for Growth: Progress and Plans
Debenhams has a clear strategy for growth which is 
based around four key themes:
 Product strategy
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Mantaray for women was 
launched in AW09 and has 
since been extended to all 
Debenhams stores.
Our strong childrenswear offer, 
including Butterﬂy by Matthew 
Williamson, helped us to gain 
market share during 2010. Section 2
The Business
9
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
AW10 saw the launch of Ben 
de Lisi’s ﬁrst Home collection for 
Debenhams. Ben is one of eight 
Designers at Debenhams to be 
found in the Home department.  Section 2
The Business
10
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Pixie Geldof was the face of the SS10  
launch of new Designers at Debenhams 
brand H! by Henry Holland. H! is our ﬁrst 
designer brand aimed at 16-24 year old 
fashion-focused customers. Section 2
The Business
11
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
further additions to the designer portfolio, building 
on the success of Ben de Lisi’s home launch in 
autumn/winter 2009. House and Home by Lisa 
Stickley arrived in store towards the end of the year. 
Lisa is a specialist home designer who has created 
a fresh, quirky and witty collection for the kitchen, 
breakfast and dinner table and bedroom. Butterﬂy 
Home by Matthew Williamson was introduced at the 
same time, the ﬁrst home collection anywhere from 
the hugely successful catwalk designer. Matthew’s 
home collection stays true to his daring approach  
to colour and pattern, inspired by cultures around 
the world.
Looking forward, we will continue to focus on own 
bought brands, both private label and Designers at 
Debenhams, working towards our 85 per cent target. 
New launches include a new menswear brand  
Fit For Purpose (F.F.P.) which targets 20-35 year old 
male customers, a new development in Designers  
at Debenhams called Edition and a new range  
from Julien Macdonald called Diamond. Women’s 
footwear brand Faith will also be relaunched as an 
own bought brand.
Space Expansion
New Stores
Although Debenhams has been a feature on the 
British high street for over 200 years, the store portfolio 
is still relatively immature with 148 department stores 
and 13 of our small format Desire stores in the UK 
and the Republic of Ireland and six department 
stores in Denmark. In addition, there are 60 
international franchise stores in 23 countries. We 
generate strong returns on new stores and believe 
increasing the size of the store portfolio is a good use 
of shareholders’ money. In total, we believe there 
are  up to 240 locations which could support a 
Ben de Lisi from womenswear into homeware. Finally, 
existing brands increased their footprint in existing 
stores and/or were introduced into additional stores. 
In 2010, we have focused on consolidating the 
space moves as well as moving the strategy forward 
by introducing further new own bought brands.
High street favourite Principles was relaunched in 
conjunction with designer Ben de Lisi for spring/ 
summer 2010. Principles had been a successful 
concession in Debenhams but fell into administration 
in 2009 after several years of declining sales. We 
subsequently acquired the brand which led to it 
returning to the high street exclusively in 125 
Debenhams stores as Principles by Ben de Lisi.  
Since launch, Principles has gone from strength to 
strength and for autumn/winter 2010 will be 
extended to all stores.
Our Designers at Debenhams portfolio entered a 
new market during 2010 with the launch of H! by 
Henry Holland for young fashion-focused customers 
in the 16-24 age bracket. We know these customers 
already shop in Debenhams because they buy 
young fashion concession brands and cosmetics 
and so an extensive PR and social media campaign 
accompanied the launch of H! speciﬁcally aimed to 
appeal to the brand’s young target customers.
Increasing the penetration of Designers at 
Debenhams has been a key focus in the home 
department over the past couple of years. In difﬁcult 
economic times when the property market is slow, 
many people look to refresh their homes with new 
accessories and co-ordinates rather than move 
house or undertake major refurbishment projects. 
This plays very much to the strengths of Designers at 
Debenhams for the home. To this end, 2010 has seen 
We were delighted to welcome 
Lisa Stickley’s fresh, quirky House 
and Home range to Designers 
at Debenhams during 2010. 
Specialist home designer Lisa’s 
quintessentially English brand 
includes kitchenware, china 
and bedlinen.
Menswear brand Fit For Purpose (F .F .P) was launched in July 2010. 
Champion boxers Frankie Gavin and Kevin Mitchell are the faces 
of the brand.
Designer Jeff Banks opened  
our new store in Bath in 
September 2010. Section 2
The Business
In 2010,  
six new stores 
were opened  
in the UK.
12
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Debenhams’ city centre store 
in Manchester has recently 
undergone a multi-million 
pound refurbishment to bring it 
up to the standard of a ﬂagship 
store (above and right).
Store Refurbishments
With the slowing of the store pipeline – generally due 
to circumstances beyond Debenhams’ control – we 
are focusing on refurbishing some of our older core 
stores to improve their performance. As with new 
stores, refurbished stores generate strong returns on 
capital, with the current wave expected to generate 
20-25 per cent return on capital. There are two  
main refurbishment formats. The ﬁrst is ﬂagship 
refurbishments which we undertake in large city 
centre heritage stores and market ownership stores 
(i.e. where Debenhams is the only department store 
in a town or city). The programme of works includes 
new ﬂooring, new lighting, a new cosmetics hall 
including new house builds and new services such 
as a new food offer. The average cost of a ﬂagship 
refurbishment is £25 per sq ft and the work takes 
around 120 days. Other stores undergo a store 
upgrade, which focuses on improved space 
utilisation and a visual make-over. These 
refurbishments cost some £20 per sq ft and take 
around 90 days to complete.
In 2010, we undertook ﬂagship refurbishments  
in Glasgow and Manchester (both city centre 
heritage stores) and store upgrades in Swindon and 
Bristol. We have seen good uplifts in terms of sales 
and margins following the completion of each  
of these projects. In 2011, ﬁve major refurbishments 
will be undertaken in time for peak trading,  
namely Leeds City Centre, Merryhill, Milton Keynes, 
Portsmouth and Romford. In the second half of the 
year, refurbishments are planned for another ﬁve 
stores. In total, some 40 stores remain to be 
refurbished and we aim to complete these over the 
next three or four years.
department store in the UK and Ireland and 100 
which could support a Desire store. There is also the 
possibility to add two or three additional stores in 
Denmark and there are many opportunities for new 
international franchise stores,
In 2010, six new stores were opened in the UK. This 
comprised three department stores and three Desire 
stores. The new department stores were a ﬂagship 
store in Newcastle-upon-Tyne (February 2010, 
128,000 sq ft), Carmarthen (April 2010, 59,000 sq ft) 
and Bury, Greater Manchester (July 2010, 71,000 
sq  ft). The new Desire stores were Kidderminster 
(September 2009, 22,000 sq ft), Witney (October 
2009, 14,000 sq ft) and Monks Cross, York (October 
2009, 24,000 sq ft). In addition, Debenhams acquired 
six stores in Denmark through the acquisition of 
Magasin du Nord which completed in January 2010, 
adding 897,000 sq ft. In total, total trading space 
increased by 1,204,000 sq ft in 2010 (after the closure 
of two external locations totalling 11,000 sq ft), giving 
a year-end total of 12,250,000 sq ft, an increase of 
10.9 per cent. Average new space increased by 8.8 
per cent.
Looking to the future, the new store opening  
pipeline has inevitably been impacted by recent 
economic turmoil which has seen a number of 
shopping centre developments in the UK become 
delayed or cancelled. As a result, in 2011 we will 
open two new department stores comprising Bath, 
which opened in September 2010, and Wakeﬁeld 
which is currently scheduled to open in May 2011. 
Further out, there are another 30 contracted or 
possible new store openings. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued Section 2
The Business
Magasin is an 
iconic retail brand 
in Denmark.
13
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Amongst the 11 new 
international franchise stores 
opened during 2010 was our 
ﬁrst store in Baku, Azerbaijan.
Debenhams acquired Denmark’s leading 
department store group Magasin du 
Nord in 2010, including its iconic store in 
Kongens Nytorv, Copenhagen.
Designer John Rocha joined 
us in Copenhagen on a rainy 
day to attend the 2010 Danish 
Fashion Awards.
expertise which will again allow it to become more 
price competitive as well as increasing margins. 
Overall, we believe that Magasin’s gross margin, 
which was 32.7 per cent in 2010, will increase by  
500-600 basis points over the medium term which 
will result in its EBITDA margin improving to double- 
digit level over the same time period. We have  
been pleased with the performance of Magasin 
since acquisition. Danish customers are responding 
favourably to the Debenhams’ product ranges 
introduced so far and the performance of the stores 
which have introduced the most Debenhams’ 
merchandise have improved from the worst-
performing stores in the portfolio to the best.
Going forward, we will continue to execute our plans 
for Magasin and we believe it will contribute some 
£13-14 million of EBITDA and £7-10 million of proﬁt 
before tax in 2011.
As part of our aim to extend Debenhams’ 
international reach and build global brands 
proﬁtably, we will evaluate other store acquisition 
opportunities as and when they become available. 
We believe there are other department store chains 
in Europe which could beneﬁt from the same 
approach as we have used for Magasin.
International Franchise Stores
A cornerstone of our international strategy is our 
franchise stores which complement owned assets 
such as Magasin. Franchise stores are particularly 
important in distant and emerging markets where 
the local knowledge of our franchise partner is 
crucial for success.
By the end of 2010 we had 60 franchise stores in 23 
countries, a net increase of eight stores during the 
Store Acquisitions
In January 2010, Debenhams completed the 
acquisition of Denmark’s leading department store 
group Magasin du Nord. This comprised six well-
invested department stores including the ﬂagship 
store in central Copenhagen. The acquisition price 
was £6.7 million. The acquisition of Magasin was the 
third acquisition of stores in recent years, following 
Allders and Roches in 2005 and 2006 respectively.
Magasin is an iconic retail brand in Denmark. 
However, it had experienced declining proﬁts for a 
number of years, chieﬂy due to an unstable 
ownership structure which left it cash constrained. 
This resulted in a brand mix comprised chieﬂy of  
low gross margin, high price concession and 
consignment brands which led to an unsustainably 
low proﬁt margin. Private label own bought brands 
accounted for less than 5 per cent of total  
sales. Magasin was an attractive acquisition for 
Debenhams for a number of reasons: it was low cost 
and low risk; we had previous sales experience in 
Denmark through our international franchise stores; 
Denmark can be serviced from our UK distribution 
network; and English is widely spoken in Denmark.  
As well as the improvements we believe we can 
make to Magasin itself, this acquisition also creates 
a platform and business model for further expansion 
of internationally owned assets.
Magasin stores are not being rebranded as 
Debenhams, they will retain their current and  
much-loved branding. Instead, we will be focusing 
on widening consumer appeal and increasing  
margins by introducing selected Debenhams 
private label and Designers at Debenhams brands 
into the stores. Magasin will also beneﬁt from 
leveraging Debenhams’ buying and supply chain  Section 2
The Business
W e want our 
multi-channel 
business to 
be engaging, 
inspiring, relevant 
and convenient.
14
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Another new innovation in our multi-
channel business is Debenhams TV , a suite 
of online videos to provide customers with 
inspiration and advice.
Multi-channel access points: signiﬁcant progress 
was made in this area in 2010 including the 
introduction of instore ordering to all stores and the 
trialling of self-service kiosks, the launch of collect 
from store and international delivery. Most recently, 
an iPhone app and Debenhams TV , our online video 
facility, have been launched. A euro-denominated 
website for the Republic of Ireland will be introduced 
during the ﬁrst half of 2011.
Multi-channel marketing: our aim is to produce clear 
and consistent messaging across our stores and all 
customer communications. We have been using 
e-mail marketing for some time and have been 
actively increasing the size of our marketing 
database in 2010. We have also been seeking to 
improve search engine optimisation and were 
pleased to be ranked number one for UK fashion 
search in the third quarter of 2010 (source: 
Greenlight). We are fully engaged with social media 
such as Facebook and Twitter. 
Easier customer journey: in 2010 we improved page 
layout and navigation on debenhams.com. We also 
introduced a much cleaner and faster checkout 
process. Looking forward, a new web platform will  
be introduced during 2011 which will improve the 
customer journey further.
Content: we want our online content to reﬂect what 
we are famous for instore: in particular Designers at 
Debenhams, health and beauty and gifting. We add 
new products and ranges to debenhams.com all 
the time and our SKU count online increased by 10.4 
per cent during 2010. Going forward, we will be 
year including market entry in Azerbaijan, Egypt, 
Kazakhstan, Malta and Vietnam.
The stores performed well in 2010, although some 
markets were affected by macroeconomic factors.
Over the medium-term we expect the franchise 
portfolio to expand to 100 stores.
Multi-Channel
Debenhams’ multi-channel business has grown 
strongly over the last two years, with Debenhams 
Direct sales up nearly 150 per cent on a two-year 
basis. As a result, debenhams.com has become  
our largest store and we are now in the top ten 
online retailers for both fashion and home.
By 2014, online is expected to inﬂuence 50 per cent 
of all UK non-food sales whether through browsing 
online prior to buying instore, using click and collect 
or reserve, buying online or using instore ordering 
services. We want to engage with our customers  
fully through all these channels and to make them 
relevant, inspiring and convenient.
Our strategy for multi-channel development is 
based on:
 increasing multi-channel access points;
 effective multi-channel marketing;
 an easier customer journey; and
 improving product content and availability.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
In October 2010 we launched our iPhone 
app, expanding our multi-channel 
business into the mobile market. Find the 
app in the iTunes app store. Section 2
The Business
There is much 
to be optimistic 
about for 
Debenhams.
15
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
We were delighted to  
welcome a new lingerie  
brand for AW10, B by  
Ted Baker (above and right).  
The exclusive range of lingerie 
and sleepwear is available  
in 63 Debenhams stores.
Summary and Outlook
2010 was a year of structural change for Debenhams 
and we are pleased with the performance of the 
business. Our focus on margin and proﬁt 
improvement has been successful with both gross 
margin and headline proﬁt before tax moving 
ahead strongly.
Looking forward, the outlook for consumer 
conﬁdence over the coming year remains uncertain. 
It is therefore right for us to be cautious in the way we 
plan and manage the business. There is, however, 
much to be optimistic about for Debenhams. The 
beneﬁts of higher own bought sales will continue to 
be evident in 2011 and future years and now that 
the disruption to sales has annualised, we will look to 
move the sales line ahead as well as continuing 
growth in margins and proﬁts. In particular we would 
expect to see some recovery in our womenswear 
market share in 2011. We are conﬁdent that Magasin 
du Nord will deliver on both the ﬁnancial and 
strategic objectives that we set ourselves when we 
ﬁrst looked at acquiring the business. Multi-channel 
will continue to develop into a truly integrated model 
that serves customers not only in our home markets 
but around the world and takes advantage of new 
technology to drive sales. Strong returns and sales 
uplifts from refurbished stores such as Glasgow and 
Manchester will offset any temporary gaps in the 
store opening pipeline. We will continue to generate 
high levels of cash and will also see lower interest 
costs starting from May 2011 when the new bank 
facility commences. All of this will collectively enable 
Debenhams to make further progress in the ﬁnancial 
year ahead and beyond.
increasing our product content in the footwear, 
electrical, furniture and garden categories. In health 
and beauty, a number of top brands will be available 
online by spring/summer 2011 including MAC and 
Bobbi Brown.
Balance Sheet Management
Ensuring our business has a sound capital structure 
remains an important priority.
The balance sheet has been transformed over the 
past two years, including last year’s capital raising 
through the issue of 404 million new shares to raise 
some £300 million and a debt buy-back programme 
which has bought back a total of £91.6 million over 
the past two years at an average discount of 4.2 per 
cent (of which £30.2 million took place in 2010).
Debenhams is a business that produces strong 
cash generation. In 2010, free cash ﬂow before 
exceptional items amounted to £212.3 million, an 
increase of £55.8 million over the prior year.
In July 2010 we announced that Debenhams’ bank 
facilities had been reﬁnanced, well ahead of the 
April 2011 deadline. The new £650 million senior 
facility comprises a £250 million term loan and a 
£400 million revolving credit facility expiring in 
October 2013 with an option to extend to October 
2014. Although the board did not propose a 
dividend for 2010, it is the board’s intention that 
subject to satisfactory trading and economic 
conditions it will return to paying a dividend at the 
interim stage of the new ﬁnancial year (April 2011) 
at an initial dividend cover of around three times. Section 2
The Business
16
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
KPI
10
09
08
2,564
2,340
2,336
2010 Performance Strategy
Chief Executive’s Review continued
GTV is a measure of overall 
sales for the business, including 
concession sales. The board 
believes it is a good guide 
to the overall activity of the 
Company.
GTV grew by 9.6 per cent during 
2010 including the acquisition 
of Magasin du Nord and by  
1.4 per cent excluding Magasin.
Like-for-like sales provides 
a measure of annual sales 
performance from stores that 
have been open for one year 
or more. This metric is therefore 
an indication of organic 
sales growth.
Like-for-like sales were impacted 
in 2010 by the strategy of 
improving gross margin by 
increasing own bought sales 
penetration. This impact is 
estimated to be c.1.5 per cent.
Headline proﬁt before tax is  
the board’s principal measure 
of proﬁtability.
Headline proﬁt before tax 
increased by 20.6 per cent in 
2010. Over the last two years  
it has risen by 37.1 per cent.  
The board believes this is a 
strong performance given the  
difﬁcult trading environment.
A key element of our product 
strategy is to increase the 
own bought sales mix and 
take advantage of the higher 
margins generated by own 
bought sales over concessions.
The extensive space moves 
undertaken at the end of last 
year resulted in this KPI moving 
ahead well in 2010, towards  
our medium-term target of 
85 per cent. (Note: numbers 
exclude Magasin.)
New store openings are the 
biggest driver of trading space. 
Our disciplined approach to 
capital expenditure on new 
stores ensures we generate 
strong returns from new space.
Trading space increased 
by 1,204,000 sq ft in 2010, 
including 897,000 sq ft arising 
out of the acquisition of 
Magasin. In the UK, six new 
stores were opened.
The development of a 
multi-channel business that 
integrates the store and 
Debenhams Direct activities  
is a key part of our strategy  
for growth.
Online sales increased by 88.4 
per cent in 2010 as the beneﬁts 
of multi-channel development 
began to be realised. A host of 
new features and services were 
launched during the year.
Net debt is the KPI used to 
measure balance sheet 
strength. Ensuring the Company 
has an appropriate capital 
structure to support future 
growth is key to our success.
Net debt reduced further in 
2010 in light of strong cash 
generation within the business. 
Overall, net debt has nearly 
halved over the past two years. 
Gross transaction value £m
Like-for-like sales growth %
Headline proﬁt before tax £m
Percentage of own bought sales %
Trading space m/sq ft
Debenhams Direct sales £m
Net debt £m
10
09
08
0
(3.6)
(0.9)
10
09
08
151.0
125.2
110.1
10
09
08
80.2
76.0
71.8
10
09
08
12.3
11.0
10.7
10
09
08
103.8
55.1
42.1
10
09
08
516.8
590.3
994.0
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section 2
The Business
17
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Homeowners looking for 
relief from economic gloom 
started a shopping boom 
for ornate chandeliers in 
2010. Sales in Debenhams 
reached an all-time high 
with new lines introduced 
in stores and online to 
meet demand.
