 Section 2
The Business
So what have 
I found? I have 
found a great 
business with 
many great people.
4
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Nigel Northridge
Chairman
21 October 2010
I am delighted to be making my ﬁrst statement as 
Chairman of Debenhams. I was honoured to 
accept the role and have thoroughly enjoyed my 
ﬁrst six months. Debenhams is a household name 
operating in a fascinating and highly competitive 
sector. As I said at the time of my appointment,  
I look forward to playing my part in the continued 
success of this great British retailer which has 
demonstrated its strengths by delivering a resilient 
performance over the past two years despite the 
difﬁcult market environment.
Having joined the board in January and assumed 
the chair in April, I have spent much of the last  
few months acquainting myself with Debenhams’ 
business and its people. I believe that only by being 
truly familiar with the business can I, as Chairman, 
know the right questions to ask and fully contribute 
to strategy development. I have obviously spent 
much time with the Company’ s senior management 
team but I have also visited a broad range of our 
stores around the country, met some of our 
excellent people on the front line and spoken  
to some of our customers. Our buying and 
merchandising directors and their teams have 
provided me with a crash course in design and 
fashion retailing to enable me to understand how 
we buy as well as how we sell. I have visited our 
newly acquired business in Denmark and spent 
time with our people who are responsible for the 
multi-channel operations. I have met with head 
ofﬁce functions both in London and Taunton. I was 
also very keen to have the opportunity to meet with 
some of Debenhams’ shareholders in order to gain 
their insight on our Company.
So what have I found? I have found a great business 
with many great people. Seeing our product ranges 
Chairman’s Statement
in store convinces me that our strategy to focus on 
own bought products makes huge sense. It is a 
clear point of difference and having seen the 
margin and proﬁt beneﬁt of this strategy in 2010 we 
should soon see the sales beneﬁt too. Visiting stores 
has also reinforced my opinion that our space 
strategy of opening new stores and refurbishing 
older stores is correct; this is clearly demonstrated 
not only in the fantastic looking stores but also in 
the strong returns on capital achieved. I was 
extremely impressed with Magasin du Nord, which  
I visited along with a group of analysts and 
shareholders, and I am sure the early success we 
have seen from the introduction of Debenhams 
products will continue. Our multi-channel business, 
which brings together our stores and online 
activities, is extremely exciting and providing our 
customers with the ﬂexibility to shop in different 
ways is a pre-requisite for success in this digital age.
As well as the operational side of the business,  
I have been equally impressed by the Company’s 
corporate governance, ﬁnancial, risk management 
and internal controls processes.
Living up to our responsibilities, not least as an 
employer, a retailer, a buyer of goods and a member 
of the community, is one of the most important 
issues we have to address. Y ou can read more about 
our work in this area in the corporate responsibility 
review but I would like to highlight the efﬁcacy of our 
supply chain practices, particularly in relation to 
ethical sourcing, and some of our leading edge 
employee development work in the area of NVQ 
qualiﬁcations. I must also mention some of the 
groundbreaking campaigns we have been involved 
with this year and recommend shareholders look 
at pages 18 to 19 for more information. 
At the heart of corporate governance is the board 
of directors. I am conﬁdent that we have a good 
range of skills and experiences on the board of 
Debenhams and this view is conﬁrmed by our 
annual board review process. I would like to convey 
the board’s thanks to Paul Pindar who retired from 
the board during 2010. Particular thanks are due to 
my predecessor John Lovering who served as 
Debenhams’ Chairman for six years. I would also 
like to welcome Mark Rolfe who has joined us as a 
non-executive director very recently and I am sure 
will play an active and constructive role.
It is far from just the board where Debenhams 
beneﬁts from an extraordinary wealth of talent.  
I have met many dedicated, committed people 
throughout the Company – sales advisors, store 
managers, buyers and merchandisers, head ofﬁce 
personnel – who work extremely hard to make our 
Company successful. On behalf of the board I 
would like to thank them all for their valuable 
contribution, especially through a year of structural 
change in a challenging market environment 
where getting it right has involved so much hard 
work from everyone. Section 2
The Business
Quotes
5
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
High street favourite Principles returned exclusively 
to Debenhams stores during 2010 after we acquired 
the brand which had been a concession for many 
years. Principles is now designed by  
Ben de Lisi, one of Designers at Debenhams’  
best known designers.
Principles by Ben de Lisi is now available in all 
Debenhams stores.
