 O V E RVI E W
C H AI R M A N ’ S L E T TE R
A solid base on which we can build
Despite the challenges we faced in 2014, 
we have focused on making progress 
in our strategy to build a leading 
international, multi-channel brand. 
We have also diversified our sources 
of funding, maintained the dividend 
and strengthened our board.
N I GEL 
NOR T H R I D G E
Chairman
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
4  Dear Shareholder
2014 saw the bicentenary of the Debenhams 
name appearing on the British high street.
At the same time it was one of the most 
challenging years we have encountered 
in those 200 years. Whilst the results 
for the first half of the year were very 
disappointing, we are clear about the 
issues that we faced and are taking decisive 
action to address them. As a consequence, 
we saw a much better performance in the 
second half. I am therefore confident we 
have a solid base on which we can build 
in 2015 and beyond.
Our strategy
The board firmly believes that the four 
pillars of our strategy to build a leading 
international, multi-channel brand 
remain the right way to create value 
for our shareholders. 
You can see a visual representation of our 
strategy on page 14. Our customers are 
at the heart, reflecting the importance 
of continuing to deliver a compelling 
customer proposition across all sales 
channels. During 2014 we also worked hard 
to improve the performance of our sales 
channels in the UK by making our multi-
channel service offer more competitive and 
by seeking to improve the return on the UK 
stores by increasing sales densities. 
International has also been at the forefront 
of our thinking during the year as we aim to 
leverage our expertise from the UK into 
other markets. You can read more about 
this work and the progress made under 
each of the four pillars in the strategic 
report on pages 16 and 17 .
Our finances
At the start of July we refinanced our 
borrowing facilities. We issued £225 million 
of seven year senior notes and refinanced 
our bank funding through a £425 million 
revolving credit facility to October 2018. 
The refinancing has allowed us to achieve 
two goals. First, it reduces our reliance on 
traditional bank funding and secondly it 
diversifies our sources of funding. Over 
the life of the notes we also expect to 
achieve a material saving in interest 
costs compared with the anticipated 
cost of bank funding alone. 
Our dividend
Debenhams remains a cash generative 
business and the board has therefore 
decided to maintain the total cash dividend 
at 3.4 pence per share for 2014 despite 
lower profits. It is our intention to rebuild 
dividend cover over time as earnings 
increase. The share buyback has 
been discontinued.
Our board
We welcomed Suzanne Harlow to the 
board in December 2013. Suzanne has 
20 years’ experience with Debenhams. 
She has held the role of Group Trading 
Director since 2008 and leads the design, 
buying and merchandising functions of 
the business. 
Matt Smith will join the board as Chief 
Financial Officer during the course of 2015 
and we look forward to the benefits that 
his extensive experience of international 
and multi-channel retailing will bring to 
our business.
Matt succeeds Simon Herrick who left the 
business in February 2014. Neil Kennedy 
has done an excellent job as Acting Chief 
Financial Officer since this time, for which 
we extend our sincere thanks.
The governance section starting on page 
40 provides more information on how the 
board carries out its duties.
Our people
Our colleagues around the world coped 
admirably with the difficult trading 
conditions we saw in 2014. During the 
year we undertook our second annual 
engagement survey and were pleased that 
more people took part and that last year’s 
engagement score was maintained given 
the challenging year faced by the business. 
On behalf of the board I offer all of our 
people my gratitude for their hard work 
and dedication in 2014 and thank them in 
advance for their ongoing support in 2015. 
Nigel Northridge
Chairman
In December 2013 we celebrated the 
200th anniversary of the Debenhams 
name appearing on the high street 
for the very first time. We marked the 
occasion with special instore events 
and a limited edition collection of 
products designed by some of 
the Designers at Debenhams.
200 years
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
5 
