 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  08 09
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Chief Executive’s Review
“Dechra has performed strongly, and for the fifth 
consecutive year, produced double digit earnings per share 
growth. This success is a reflection of the strength of the 
Group and the ongoing delivery of the underlying strategy”
Ian Page, Chief Executive
Introduction
The Group has continued to make good financial and 
strategic progress during the year. The markets in most of 
the countries in which we trade have demonstrated growth, 
although there has been a decline in footfall through veterinary 
practices, especially in the companion animal sector. This 
decline has been offset in the UK by reasonably strong 
growth in the livestock sector and by a significant increase in 
veterinary products being purchased online as price conscious 
consumers look to reduce the costs of animal welfare; Dechra, 
in our UK distribution business, is currently underweight in 
both these low margin sectors. Within these market dynamics 
and against the background of continued global economic 
uncertainty, Dechra has performed strongly and, for the fifth 
consecutive year, produced double digit underlying earnings 
per share growth. This success is a reflection of the strength 
of the Group and the ongoing delivery of the underlying 
strategy. Furthermore, we have continued to invest in our 
infrastructure and product development pipeline and have 
made two earnings enhancing acquisitions to ensure we are 
well positioned to maintain good future growth prospects.
Our Strategy for Delivering  
and Maintaining Value
The Group has a clear strategy for growth by providing 
novel and specialist products together with innovative 
services to the veterinary profession. Additionally, 
we provide contract manufacturing services to other 
pharmaceutical companies.
Products
The primary strategic objective of the Group is to develop a 
high growth, cash generative veterinary products business.  
This is achieved by increased market shares of existing 
products and increasing the depth of the product range by:
l pharmaceutical development of novel companion animal 
and equine products;
l approval of pharmaceutical generic products;
l the continued development and innovation of our 
branded pet diets; and
l acquiring or in-licensing specialist pet products which 
can be marketed through existing sales and customer 
channels.
Furthermore, we are:
l increasing geographical coverage through the creation 
of our own subsidiaries in countries where we are not 
currently represented; and
l improving and developing sales growth through our 
export partners in non-subsidiary territories.
Services
The key strategic objectives in this segment are to:
l continue improving logistics excellence;
l maintain or reduce operating costs as a percentage of 
sales;
l improve our service offerings relative to our competitors; 
and
l position the businesses so that our customers and 
ourselves are best placed to take advantage of a 
changing marketplace.
Manufacturing
The key strategic objective of manufacturing is to 
effectively and economically produce our own veterinary 
pharmaceutical product range. However, we have been 
successful in developing a contract manufacturing business 
by strategic implementation of:
l therapeutic sector specialisation;
l provision of a full service, from formulation and 
development through to manufacturing and packaging; 
and
l the ability to offer our customers a wide range of scale, 
dosage forms and packaging formats. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  08 09
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Acquisitions
Two acquisitions were completed in the period.
DermaPet
DermaPet, a Florida based dermatological business, was 
acquired in October 2010 for a potential total consideration 
of US$64.0 million. The acquisition strengthened 
our position as a leader in the worldwide veterinary 
dermatological market. As a result, we have been able 
to significantly increase our US sales and marketing 
capabilities. DermaPet has now been fully integrated 
into DVP US and expected sales and cost synergies 
are beginning to be realised. We have modernised the 
packaging and are presenting it in Dechra livery. The Group 
has also identified opportunities to increase sales and 
geographical coverage of this range within Europe.
Genitrix
In December 2010 we completed the acquisition of 
Genitrix, a privately owned veterinary company with a range 
of products complementary to Dechra’s, for a potential 
total consideration of £6.4 million. The Genitrix brands are 
currently sold exclusively within the United Kingdom. The 
rationalisation of the business was completed at the end of 
January 2011 with the closure of their warehouse and office 
facility. A number of the Genitrix sales team have been 
appointed within the Dechra Group and cost synergies are 
now being realised.  
The main future strategic objective is to extend the Genitrix 
product range into other EU territories. Libromide®, a 
recently approved canine epilepsy product for the UK, is 
being taken through Mutual Recognition to gain approval 
throughout Europe. Two other products, Xeno® and RIP 
Fleas®, are also being considered for launch in other 
selected territories. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  10 11
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Case Studies
Webinars
During 2011 we launched Felimazole
®
 and 
Vetoryl
®
 throughout Dechra’s nordic sales and 
marketing subsidiaries.
t o improve the levels of diagnosis of feline 
hyperthyroidism and canine Cushing’s syndrome 
(for the conditions which Vetoryl and Felimazole are 
used to treat, see page 11) across Denmark, finland, 
norway and Sweden, we developed a programme of 
webinars.  
We worked with two globally renowned veterinary endocrinologists, 
who led a series of Dechra branded web-based seminars. These 
were attended in real time, by veterinarians from across the Nordics, 
accessing the presentation via the internet from their own computers. 
The audience watched the presentations and listened to the speakers 
and also participated in interactive question and answer sessions.
This new service was well received by our customers. A considerable amount 
of positive feedback about the quality of the presentations and the convenience 
of this medium was received from veterinarians. In total, 645 participants 
attended four webinars in February and March 2011. In addition, a recording 
of the webcasts is available to veterinary professionals to view through the 
Dechra Veterinary Products website, www.dechra.com. There have been 
1,400 viewings to date. 
Following the success of these initial webinars a programme 
of similar events has been rolled out across Europe; there are 
now several webcasts available on the website. Over 600 
vets in the UK registered for a new webinar on otitis in June 
this year. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  10 11
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
endocrinology
endocrinology describes all diseases arising from 
disorders of the endocrine system. these include 
total failure of hormone production, underproduction 
of a hormone, or overproduction of a hormone by an 
endocrine gland.
What is Feline Hyperthyroidism?
It is the most common endocrine disorder in middle-aged and older cats. It is caused by the overproduction of 
thyroid hormones and occurs when either one or both thyroid lobes enlarge.
Thyroid hormones (T4 and T3) regulate the body’s rate of metabolism so cats with hyperthyroidism have an 
excessive amount of these hormones in the blood. This dramatically increases their metabolic rate and often 
results in weight loss, despite the cat having a ravenous appetite.
Diagnosis is usually very straightforward. In the majority of cases, a veterinary surgeon will be able to feel the 
enlarged thyroid lobe(s) in the neck. Blood samples taken from a cat will usually confirm the diagnosis.
Regular treatment with Dechra’s branded prescription medicine Felimazole reduces the production of thyroid 
hormones, returning the cat to its normal euthyroid state.
What is Hyperadrenocorticism or Cushing’s Syndrome?
The condition is usually seen in older dogs and is one of the most commonly diagnosed canine endocrine disorders. 
It occurs when a dog is exposed to high levels of the hormone cortisol in the blood.
Cortisol, which is released from the adrenal glands, is controlled by the hormone ACTH which is produced by the 
pituitary gland. Dogs with Cushing’s syndrome have a tumour either in their pituitary gland or 
in their adrenal glands, both of which result in excessive amounts of cortisol. Over time, the 
clinical signs of Cushing’s syndrome will develop, which can include excessive drinking 
and urination, a ravenous appetite, a pot belly and hair loss.  
Diagnosis can be complex; blood tests that assess the capacity of a dog’s adrenal 
glands to produce cortisol are routinely used to support diagnosis. 
Treatment with Vetoryl, Dechra’s leading global product, reduces the level of cortisol 
in a dog’s blood by inhibiting the production of cortisol. As Vetoryl does not cure 
Cushing’s syndrome (the tumour is usually still present), in the majority of cases 
treatment must be continued for the rest of the life of the animal.  
