 22581-04    22/08/2013    Proof 3
Your questions answered
with Ian Page, Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A
Q
Why did Dechra decide to sell the 
Services businesses?
The Group strategy has been clear for 
several years; to develop a high margin, 
cash generative veterinary pharmaceutical 
and products business. Within this strategy 
there is clearly no place for the Services 
businesses. Historically, the Services 
businesses were the strongest part of the 
Group both in terms of turnover and profit, 
but as the years have progressed, and we 
have developed our pharmaceutical business, 
that contribution has diminished.
What actually triggered the transaction was 
a firm offer from Patterson. Patterson have a 
sole focus on Services; we believe that they 
will secure the future of the staff within the 
Services businesses and also continue to 
excel in performance at providing high levels 
of service to customers. So these factors, 
along with the firm offer, meant that we 
believed it was a strong win-win position for 
both parties.
Q
How does the sale of the Services 
businesses impact Group strategy going 
forward?
The Group strategy has not changed at 
all. If anything, the sale of the Services 
businesses has allowed us to have an 
even clearer focus on our core strategy; 
furthermore, the proceeds of the sale have 
strengthened our balance sheet considerably. 
The consequences of which are that we 
now have the capabilities to look at further 
acquisitions if they become available to us 
in the future, and also we are able to put 
a little bit more investment in our product 
development pipeline, which will strengthen 
the opportunities for future growth.
26 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013
Strategic Report
Our Performance 22581-04    22/08/2013    Proof 3
Q
Has the Eurovet integration progressed 
according to plan and has it fulfilled all 
your expectations?
It has definitely fulfilled our expectations. It 
has extended our geography, particularly 
into Germany; strengthened our companion 
animal product portfolio; enhanced our 
manufacturing capabilities and also moved 
us into the livestock sector, which is a very 
important area for us to be involved in, 
as we look at our international expansion 
opportunities.
In terms of the integration, it has delivered 
all the expected synergies to date of both 
revenue and cost nature; we expect it to 
continue to deliver further revenue synergies 
over the next couple of years.
Q
When will the product development 
pipeline start to deliver significant new 
products?
The product pipeline has actually delivered 
products year on year now for several 
years, both pharmaceuticals and diets. The 
next major product was expected to be an 
equine lameness product but unfortunately 
this was delayed due to third party contract 
manufacturing issues. However, we have 
now resolved the issues and we expect 
the product to appear within the next 12 
months within one or two major territories. 
Behind that, there is an extensive list of novel 
products that we have in development, so 
hopefully we should see at least one of these 
products appearing per year from 2014 
onwards.
Q
What are your expectations for the 
business in the medium and long term?
The world’s animal health markets are 
continuing to show growth. The companion 
animal markets remain strong in North 
America and Western Europe, and the 
livestock markets continue to increase in 
the developing world where there is a high 
demand for animal protein. So overall we 
are in a very strong position to deliver good 
organic growth with our existing portfolio 
but additionally, as I have already outlined, 
we have a very strong product development 
pipeline which will enhance that growth. We 
are looking at new countries to establish a 
presence; global expansion is high on our 
agenda; furthermore, with our strong balance 
sheet, we will hopefully be able to find one 
or two acquisitions to bolster the Group as 
a whole. So, all in all, we are in a very strong 
position to cement ourselves as one of the 
top ten global animal health companies.
Developing  
Focusing
Delivering
Watch the Online Video
www.dechra.annualreport2013.com
Web link  
for your 
convenience
27 www.dechra.com
Stock code: DPH
®
Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance
