 22581-04    22/08/2013    Proof 3
Delivering Growth in Our Focus 
Therapeutic Areas in Europe
Our European Pharmaceuticals Segment 
continues to show progress and achieved 
sales of £168.7 million, an increase of 66.3% 
(at constant exchange rates (“CER”)) over the 
previous year. On a like-for-like basis, adjusting 
2012 to include a full year of Eurovet revenue, 
growth is 5%, despite having been affected 
by slow trading in the third quarter due to bad 
weather, as previously reported. Importantly, 
on a like-for-like basis all key therapeutic areas 
delivered a good performance:
 ❱ Our focus companion animal products 
performed very well increasing by 18.4% 
(at CER), with our key products Vetoryl, 
Felimazole and Cardisure
®
  delivering 
double digit revenue growth.
 ❱ Despite a challenging environment for 
our food producing animal products, 
caused principally by pressure to reduce 
antimicrobials usage due to concerns over 
increasing resistance, we saw modest sales 
growth of our key water soluble antibiotics. 
Total sales for key products in this category 
remained flat due to competition issues on 
Cyclospray
®
  (an aerosol for cattle foot rot).
 ❱ Diets grew by 2.6% (at CER) driven by the 
relaunch of our new wet diet presentation 
and a new intensive support diet for 
animals post-surgery.
The results reflect the successful integration 
of Eurovet. This acquisition has met our 
expectations, expanding our geographical 
footprint in Europe, adding complementary 
products to our companion animal product 
portfolio, providing an entrance into the food 
producing animal market and increasing our 
manufacturing capabilities.
Operating profit for the European 
Pharmaceuticals Segment increased to  
£45.8 million from £28.9 million in the  
prior year.
Strong US Core Performance
Revenues in the US totalled £20.5 million, 
growth of 4.7% (at CER) compared to the 
prior year. Third party supply issues on our 
ophthalmic and dermatology ranges hampered 
the US performance, as previously described in 
our trading update on 10 July 2013. However, 
adjusting for these unexpected circumstances, 
the core sales growth was 10.3% (at CER) 
with Vetoryl continuing to grow at 11.6% and 
Felimazole at 16.3%.
During the year, Dechra Veterinary Products 
US continued to invest in and build its sales 
team in order to reinforce its marketing 
activities and further strengthen relationships 
with veterinarians. As a result the operating 
profit for this Segment was slightly down at 
£5.6 million compared to £5.9 million in 2012.
Strategic Divestment of the Services 
Segment
The divestment of our Services Segment, 
completed post year end on 16 August 2013,  
represents a further step in the Board strategy 
to create a focused pure play specialist 
veterinary pharmaceuticals business. The 
Board believes that the Pharmaceuticals 
businesses are higher margin, cash generative 
businesses, operating in a global market with 
attractive long term growth prospects. 
The net proceeds of the disposal will be 
used initially to reduce Group’s debt but 
provides the Group with additional resources 
to continue its development, both organically 
and through strategic acquisitions.
Increased Investment in Research and 
Development (“R&D”)
In 2013 our Development and Regulatory 
team achieved approvals for:
 ❱ three new products;
 ❱ three line extensions; and
 ❱ three existing products licensed into new 
territories.
At the same time, development of our novel and 
generic products continued; four projects have 
now reached the clinical phase of development. 
We will also file imminetly in the UK and the US 
for a new equine product.
As a specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals 
business, the Board has decided to increase the 
Group’ s focus and investment in R&D as a key 
driver of future growth and profitability.
Net Debt
As expected our net borrowing position  
at the end of the financial year improved 
compared to 2012, reducing from £86.7 
million to £80.8 million.
Chairman’s Statement
Michael Redmond
Non-Executive Chairman
06 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013
Strategic Report
Our Business 22581-04    22/08/2013    Proof 3
“This has been a 
transformational year for 
Dechra. The disposal of 
the Services Segment 
represents a major step 
forward in the Board’s 
strategy to create a 
specialist veterinary 
pharmaceuticals 
business. We expect 
the quality of the 
Group’s business and 
its prospects to be 
enhanced as a result of 
the disposal.”
08
Read more about 
Reasons to Invest
Dividend
Subject to Shareholder approval at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting on  
17 October 2013, the Board is proposing 
a final dividend of 9.66 pence per share, 
reflecting underlying EPS growth, and 
bringing the total dividend per share to 14.00 
pence for the financial year ended 2013. 
The proposed final dividend shall be paid on 
22 November 2013 to Shareholders on the 
Register on the Register at 8 November 2013. 
The shares will become ex-dividend on  
6 November 2013.
Prospects 
The divestment will enable management to 
focus exclusively on the areas of the business 
with the strongest margin, cash conversion 
and growth prospects. We intend to increase 
our focus on and investment in Research 
and Development to ensure the value of 
our pipeline is delivered and we continue to 
assess selective, strategic acquisitions which 
would add new products or geographies.
We will continue to refine our strategy for the 
continuing Group in the next financial year. 
The Board remains committed to building 
a cash generative specialist veterinary 
pharmaceuticals business which will:
 ❱ expand our geographical footprint;
 ❱ maximising opportunities with our existing 
products; and
 ❱ advancing and deliver our promising 
pipeline.
Current trading is ahead of last year and 
in line with management’s expectations. 
The Board is confident that the Group will 
continue to perform well despite a challenging 
environment and that our strategy will deliver 
enhanced Shareholder value.
Michael Redmond
Non-Executive Chairman
3 September 2013
Above:
Visual vials inspection at DPM, Skipton
07 www.dechra.com
Stock code: DPH
®
Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information Our Performance Our Business Strategic Report
