 3 DELTA PLC
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
The Group undertook signiﬁcant change during 2003, with the disposal of the Electrical Division in January 2003 marking
the last of the Group’s European based divisions. Our immediate objectives for the second half of 2003 were largely
achieved with the management teams necessary for the successful management of our existing businesses now in place with
reduced overheads, and our focus on ﬁnancial performance, careful investment and cash management renewed.
Considerable resource also has been committed to a review of the Group’s businesses and strategic opportunities as well as
of the Delta Pension Plan, with the results described below.
Strategic review
Whilst the Group’s ﬁrst priority remains to improve the ﬁnancial performance of our existing businesses by realising the
beneﬁts of our recent management changes and renewed focus on earnings and capital employed, the Board has undertaken
a thorough strategic review.
As part of that review, the Board has considered thoroughly the three strategic options often cited as obvious
opportunities for the Group: the acquisition of the DEI minorities, a managed break up of the Group, and a substantial
return of capital. The Board has concluded that opportunities to improve the performance of several of the Group’s
businesses and to develop those businesses through further investment warrant doing so and will create shareholder value.
The Board also has concluded that the limited savings and synergies possibly afforded through acquisition of the DEI
minorities do not warrant a premium over the current share price. 
The Group has demonstrated success in three areas: the management and development of Delta EMD’s global EMD
businesses, the operation of galvanizing businesses when well positioned by sound investment decisions, and the operation
of small industrial businesses having good market positions in relatively small, stable and local markets. The Group’s
disappointing results in the past have resulted from businesses which now have been sold or discontinued and from
investments that have not yet performed to original expectations. We will continue to focus our efforts on improving the
performance of those earlier investments, and all future investments will be considered rigorously.
We anticipate further consolidation of global EMD production and supply following the termination of the US EMD
anti-dumping investigation and the reduced proﬁtability likely suffered by most EMD producers as a consequence of a weak
US dollar. Delta EMD’s competitive cost structure and proven quality and service afford a substantial foundation for growth
in this consolidating market. The Group intends to participate in that consolidation process when attractive investment
opportunities are identiﬁed. Further, the rapidly growing Asian markets for batteries and the underlying demand for EMD
should present opportunities to develop further our participation in the Asian markets by utilising Delta EMD’s process and
product know-how through acquisitions or joint-ventures in China or elsewhere in Asia.
Whilst Manganese Metal Company has endured a most difﬁcult year due to pricing pressures from Chinese supply
and the weakened US dollar, the business continues to enjoy substantial competitive advantages with favourable access to
quality ore, reliable supply of electrical power, and products differentiated by the absence of selenium. As the sole supplier
of manganese metal outside of China, MMC remains uniquely positioned and the Group remains interested in further
developing manganese businesses if attractive investment opportunities are identiﬁed.
Delta’s galvanizing businesses remain one of the largest galvanizing groups in the world and have a substantial
footprint in Australia, Asia and the United States. More importantly our galvanizing businesses enjoy process know-how as
well as management expertise and experience that afford a substantial competitive advantage. Developing our galvanizing
businesses through opportunistic mergers with, or acquisitions of, other well positioned galvanizing businesses remains an
attractive opportunity for the Group, particularly when additional value can be created through our process know-how and
management experience or through the better utilisation of plants.
The management teams of our Industrial Supplies businesses have performed well during the past ﬁve years,
consistently providing substantial returns. Whilst their businesses do not necessarily provide platforms for substantial
growth or expansion, the Group will consider further investment in certain of those businesses to sustain or improve the
returns afforded by those businesses. 
As evident from the Group’s 2003 results, the Group’s future results will depend in part upon currency exchange
movements, which whilst important, will not shape our future investment strategy and will be managed through appropriate
hedging policies and practices. Similarly, whilst the Group’s existing tax inefﬁciencies might provide additional beneﬁts to
further investment in the United Kingdom or United States, those beneﬁts alone will not shape the Group’s strategy but will
inform future acquisition decisions.
Delta Pension Plan
Considerable resource was committed to a review of the Delta Pension Plan and to the just completed tri-ennual actuarial
valuation. The plan’s administrative practices, particularly with respect to early retirement beneﬁts, now offer plan
prescribed beneﬁts and cost neutral early retirement beneﬁts. All other actuarial assumptions have been reviewed carefully
as well. The plan trustee has agreed to continue an investment strategy reﬂecting the Group’s ongoing ﬁnancial ability to DELTA PLC 4
make annual contributions to the plan. That investment strategy remains relatively conservative, reﬂecting the timing of the
plan’s liabilities. Favourable investment experience since the valuation resulted in the plan having a small surplus at year
end. Consequently going forward the Group will make contributions to the plan for future service pension obligations
together with the cost of death-in-service beneﬁts. The Group did not incur a pension expense under SSAP 24 during 2003
and plans to contribute approximately £0.5 million to the plan in 2004 for future service obligations. The deﬁcit under FRS 17
shown in the notes to the accounts reduced signiﬁcantly over the year from £119.7 million to £39.4 million, before taxation.
The plan’s assets and liabilities remain substantial, particularly in proportion to the Group. Consequently, further
review is underway to determine how best to manage the plan over the longer term.
Reduction of Group overheads
Further reduction of Group overheads remains an important opportunity to improve the Group’s overall results. The Group
formerly maintained corporate ofﬁces in London, Melbourne, Brisbane, the United States and Johannesburg. The closure
of those ofﬁces in Melbourne and the United States was announced during 2003 together with redundancies in London and
Brisbane. These closures and redundancies required exceptional expenses totalling £2.1 million and will afford ongoing
savings of £2.2 million per annum. Whilst efforts to incrementally reduce group overheads continue across the Group,
certain expenses will necessarily remain in the near term to address matters remaining from disposed businesses and the
Group’s past. For instance, we have incurred an exceptional expense of £0.8 million to provide for the winding down of
our captive insurance company over the next several years and continue to address claims and administrative matters related
to former businesses, such as the European Commission’s investigation of copper ﬁttings.
2003 trading results
The Group’s operating proﬁt for continuing businesses declined during 2003 from £29.7 million to £28.6 million on
turnover that increased from £273.6 million to £334.8 million. Improved earnings from our Industrial Supplies businesses
as well as from Webforge were more than offset by the losses suffered by Manganese Metal Company. Continuing earnings
per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of £(5.4) million (2002 £(0.7) million) were 7.0 pence,
compared to 5.2 pence on the same basis in the prior year.
The Group’s results were both favourably and unfavourably impacted by currency exchange movements as described
below. Our reported interest expense of £4.7 million, for instance, included losses of £3.2 million on the revaluation of local
currency ﬁnancing balances resulting from currency exchange movements. 
Following our review of the Group’s businesses, assets and overheads, we incurred an exceptional charge of £4.4
million for asset impairment, as well as exceptional expenses of £2.5 million for redundancies throughout the Group and
£6.3 million for additional disposal and business discontinuation provisions. We also incurred a non-operating exceptional
expense of £5.2 million relating to transfer of assets to the Eaton pension plan necessary to fund the Delta Pension Plan
liabilities assumed by that plan relating to former Electrical Division employees. These expenses were partly offset by an
exceptional proﬁt of £2.5 million on a foreign exchange contract and will afford reduced overheads and better focus on our
remaining businesses as well as necessary provisions for potential future liabilities relating to disposed businesses. 
Considerable focus was given during the second half of the year to improve the Group’s cash position following
disappointing working capital movements. Those efforts resulted in a year end reported net cash balance of £21.2 million. 
Review of 2003 trading and prospects
Delta EMD
Delta EMD produces electrolytic manganese dioxide at plants located in South Africa and Australia and sells EMD globally
in US dollar denominated selling prices for use in the production of dry cell batteries. Delta EMD is owned by Delta
Electrical Industries Limited (DEI), a South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Delta plc holds
56.4% of DEI’s outstanding shares.
Delta EMD’s successful management and development of their business, including their 1998 acquisition of a second plant
in Newcastle, Australia, have contributed handsomely to their earnings growth during the past ﬁve years. Until 2003, the
business also beneﬁted from a strong US dollar and weaker South African rand and Australian dollar. Substantial currency
exchange movements during 2003 and a considerable commitment of management resource and expense to the US anti-
dumping investigation made 2003 a more difﬁcult year. 
Notwithstanding reduced US dollar denominated selling prices, Delta EMD’s US dollar sales grew during the year by
6% with improved volumes. Whilst local currency denominated production costs were well managed, US dollar
denominated margins weakened signiﬁcantly due to strengthening of the Australian dollar and South African rand and
resulting increases in such costs when translated to US dollars. Additional volumes and cost savings did not offset the
reduced margins, and Delta EMD’s underlying 2003 earnings fell below those achieved in 2002.  5 DELTA PLC
Delta EMD’s proﬁts in 2003 were £15.8 million on sales of £45.9 million compared to £15.6 million on sales of £47.1
million in 2002. Delta EMD’s trading proﬁts were buoyed by proﬁts of £5.5 million on foreign exchange contracts and
favourable out-of-period provision movements of £2.4 million. These proﬁts and favourable adjustments were offset by
£4.5 million of losses resulting from the revaluation of local currency account balances and £1.0 million of expenses related
to the US anti-dumping investigation. The weakening US dollar also adversely impacted the translation of Delta EMD’s US
dollar earnings to Pound Sterling. 
Underlying demand for batteries and EMD continues to grow globally. With the closure of Mitsui’s production facility
in Ireland and the suspension of production at Kerr-McGee’s US facility, EMD capacity outside of China reduced during
2003. We would expect US dollar denominated selling prices to improve during 2004 to reﬂect the much weaker US dollar.
The US Department of Commerce intended to issue a preliminary determination with respect to its investigation of
alleged dumping of EMD in the US market on 27 February 2004. That determination might have imposed US import duties
on EMD imported from Japan, Greece, Ireland, South Africa and Australia. Unexpectedly, on 20 February 2004, Kerr-
McGee Chemical LLC, a US producer of EMD, withdrew its petition inviting the Department of Commerce to terminate
the investigation. Termination of the investigation was supported by two other US EMD producers, Erachem Comilog Inc.
and Energizer Battery Manufacturing Inc., and was announced on 20 February 2004. The resolution of the US anti-dumping
investigation should in time settle the US market and may allow Delta EMD to secure additional US supply arrangements
for 2004.
As a lower cost producer of premium grade EMD, Delta EMD should be well positioned to secure additional share of
this global market and to remain a leading supplier of EMD. Delta EMD’s capacity will be increased by 9,000 tonnes during
2004 with the commissioning of additional production cells. Investment also continues for conversion to copper cathodes
allowing production of lead reduced material as well as additional operating efﬁciencies.
EMD’s 2004 margins and trading proﬁts will depend upon currency exchange movements during the year. Delta
EMD’s 2003 underlying results were achieved with South African rand and Australian dollar average exchange rates against
the US dollar of 7.5 and 1.5, respectively. Delta EMD’s 2004 sales from South Africa are not covered with foreign exchange
contracts and the remaining foreign exchange contract covering sales from Australia which will cover only a certain portion
of Delta EMD’s future Australian sales. Efforts continue to achieve further production efﬁciencies and to reduce overheads.
Manganese Metal Company
MMC produces manganese metal in South Africa for use globally in the production of steel and aluminium as well as the
manufacture of electronic components. MMC is a member of the BHP Billiton Group, with Delta plc holding 49% of
MMC’s outstanding shares.
MMC participates in a global market with US dollar denominated selling prices. MMC suffered substantial losses during
2003 with efforts to reduce South African costs not offsetting the reduced US dollar margin resulting from reduced US dollar
selling prices and the strengthening of the South African rand. The Group’s 49% share of MMC’s losses in 2003 were £(2.1)
million on sales of £19.1 million compared to a proﬁt of £4.6 million on sales of £22.3 million in the previous year.
Although MMC’s 2003 volumes were in line with 2002, MMC lost market share to Chinese competitors who added
production capacity during the year. Global demand for manganese metal has improved since mid-2003 with greater
demand from steel and aluminium producers, together with particularly robust demand relating to the production of Series
200 stainless steel. Disrupted supply of Chinese manganese metal due to limited electrical power and more rigorous
environment compliance also has reduced global supply and signiﬁcantly improved market selling prices during the past six
months.
MMC’s proximity to superior grade manganese ore and reliable electrical power continues to afford MMC a
competitive advantage, and their selenium free material remains preferred by many environmentally responsible customers.
Proﬁtability will remain dependent upon improved US dollar selling prices as well as strengthening of the US dollar from
the current levels. 
Galvanizing
Delta’s galvanizing businesses provide hot-dip galvanizing services as well as fabricate galvanized steel products for local
infrastructure and construction projects in Australia, Asia and the United States.
The acquisition of Webforge, a steel gratings fabricator with plants in Australia and Asia, was completed in February.
Webforge has performed to plan since acquisition and provided much of the additional sales and earnings reported by the
Galvanising division during 2003. Integration is largely complete with Webforge’s galvanizing requirements now provided
by sister companies and opportunities for Webforge and our other steel fabrication businesses to jointly develop sales
channels well underway. 
Our other galvanizing businesses did not achieve the overall sales or earnings growth expected during the year, with DELTA PLC 6
the improvements planned in the US and Asia not achieved, and neither AusZinc nor Ingal Civil Products able to provide
the same exceptional performance of the prior year. Improvement in Asia remains partly dependent upon the recovery of
our pole fabrication business in the Philippines, which awaits the release of government funds for further infrastructure
development, and whilst volumes have improved in the US with the strengthening US economy, prices remain low due to
overcapacity. Notwithstanding these particular challenges, the majority of our galvanizing business units continue to
provide attractive returns. The challenge remains to reduce overheads and better focus our management resource.
Proﬁts in 2003 were £8.3 million on sales of £124.2 million compared to £4.1 million on turnover of £85.7 million
in 2002. Our galvanizing 2003 trading results were buoyed by the favourable translation of Australian dollar proﬁts and
by favourable out-of-period provision movements totalling £0.9 million. The results reported for our galvanizing businesses
include a £1.0 million non-operating exceptional expense for the discontinuation of the Continuous Fastener Galvanizing
(‘CFG’) business as well as £4.4 million of exceptional operating expenses for the impairment of assets associated with other
projects and certain US plants.
The discontinuation of the CFG business and other projects reﬂects our intention to focus our management resource
on those businesses that have the proven ability to provide satisfactory ﬁnancial returns. The impairment of certain US
production assets reﬂects the current under-utilisation and under-performance of our original investments.
The general economic conditions and construction activity in Australia, Asia and the United States should provide
reasonably good markets for our galvanizing businesses during 2004. Our recent overhead reductions also should provide
our galvanizing businesses substantial savings in 2004, and limited additional investment and focused working capital
management should substantially improve cash ﬂows. Our 2004 results may not include the same translation beneﬁt and
will not include similar out-of-period provision movements. 
Industrial Supplies
Our Industrial Supplies businesses provide goods and services to local mining, transportation and construction industries
in South Africa and Australia. The Group’s South African based Industrial Supplies businesses are owned by Delta Electrical
Industries Limited (DEI). Delta plc holds 56.4% of DEI’s outstanding shares. 
Our industrial supplies businesses enjoyed successful trading in 2003. When measured in local currencies, their ﬁnancial
performances were similar to those of last year, and the strengthening of the Australian dollar and South African rand
substantially improved our translated results. Proﬁts in 2003 increased to £17.5 million from £12.5 million on increased
sales of £145.6 million compared to £118.5 million in the previous year.
The businesses are well managed, enjoy good market positions in relatively stable local markets and continue to
provide attractive returns and cash ﬂows. Whilst the businesses may not enjoy the same favourable translation in 2004, their
underlying performance in local currencies is expected to continue. Working capital management and careful further
investment provide some limited opportunity for further improvement from these businesses.
Group cash ﬂow
Excluding disposal proceeds and acquisition payments, the Group’s 2003 reported cash outﬂow totalled £11.6 million,
including a working capital outﬂow of about £15 million at the Electrical Division prior to disposal. The disposal proceeds
received by the Group were reduced during the year by cash payments against disposal provisions, including transfer of £5.2
million to fund the Delta Pension Plan liabilities relating to former Electrical Division employees assumed by the Eaton
pension plan. Net proceeds from the disposal and acquisition of businesses totalled £92.1 million.
The Group’s cash outﬂow included £12.2 million of foreign exchange contract settlements relating to net asset hedging
and £4.0 million of settlements relating to hedging of inter-company loan balances. As reported previously, we have
discontinued net asset hedging and consequently no longer have those cash exposures, and whilst the hedging of inter-
company loan balances will be continued, we have substantially reduced the amount of inter-company loans thereby
reducing that cash exposure.
As suggested by our disappointing working capital movements and related cash outﬂows, working capital
management remains an opportunity for future cash generation. Reduced capital expenditures also remain an opportunity
for improving our cash ﬂow, following a year during which capital expenditures again disappointingly exceeded
depreciation due largely to capacity expansions at our EMD plants. 
The Group’s reported cash ﬂow and balances include the cash ﬂows and balances of all the Group’s consolidated
entities. The cash ﬂows and balances immediately available to the Group include only the dividends received from entities
that are not wholly owned, as opposed to those entities’ entire cash ﬂows and balances. Consequently, the cash available to
the Group is less than the Group’s reported consolidated cash balance.
At year end 2003, the Group’s reported net cash balance was £21.2 million, of which £14.3 million was immediately
available to the Group in wholly-owned subsidiaries and not otherwise restricted. The generation and accumulation of cash
for future investment remains a Group priority. 7 DELTA PLC
Final dividend
The Board has considered closely the Group’s dividend payment policy following the reduction of our interim dividend and
recommends the payment of a ﬁnal dividend of 0.5p, providing a full year dividend of 2.0p. A dividend of this level allows
for planned reinvestment in the Group’s businesses.
Todd Atkinson, Chief Executive
