 DELTA PLC 2
2003 was a year of substantial change for Delta. We completed the disposal of the Group’s last remaining European based
division, the Electrical Division, early in the year, and made several important management changes thereafter. Todd
Atkinson joined the Board in July following his appointment as Chief Executive, and I succeeded Sir Martin Jacomb as
Chairman at the end of the year. The Group is most appreciative of Sir Martin’s many years of service on the Board and we
wish him well in the future.
Further industry experience was added to the Board with the most recent appointment of Steve Marshall as a non-
executive director. This appointment also furthers our efforts to assure board composition consistent with good corporate
governance, and we now have the leadership and management in place to meet the challenges ahead.
The Group’s operating proﬁt for continuing businesses declined in 2003 from £29.7 million to £28.6 million on
turnover that increased from £273.6 million to £334.8 million. As described more fully in these reports and accounts, the
Group’s 2003 results were both favourably and unfavourably impacted by signiﬁcant currency exchange movements.
Underlying trading varied by business unit as also described more fully in the Chief Executive’s Review. Although signiﬁcant
improvements were made during the second half of the year, further improvements will be made during the current year
with respect to overhead reductions and working capital management, as well as investment analysis and decisions.
During the second half of the year, we committed considerable resource to a thorough review of the Delta Pension
Plan. Going forward, the plan will provide all members who qualify for early retirement with the plan prescribed early
retirement beneﬁts, rather than the more generous approach previously followed. At year end the plan enjoyed a slight
surplus on the 2003 funding assumptions due to favourable investment experience. Following several years of not
contributing to the plan, the Group will now resume the necessary contributions to fund future service pension obligations.
The Group remains a portfolio of diversiﬁed relatively small industrial businesses and we believe the ultimate measure
of the Group’s success will be ﬁnancial performance. Several of our businesses perform well, some with very good returns
and cash ﬂows, whilst others have not achieved the same results due to less fortunate market positions or investments that
have not yet performed to original expectations. The challenge for 2004 is to sustain the strong performances of our
successful businesses and to improve the performance of our underperforming businesses, whilst allowing the improved
earnings and cash ﬂow to reach the bottom line by reducing overheads as well as the costs associated with the Group’s past.
A measure of our success will be the generation and accumulation of cash for further investment.
Following his appointment as Chief Executive, Todd Atkinson has led the Board’s thorough review of the Group’s
businesses and strategic opportunities, with the ﬁndings addressed in detail in the Chief Executive’s Review. The success of
the Group over the longer term clearly will depend upon successful investment decisions, both with respect to acquisitions
and future capital expenditure. Our track record in these areas has been disappointing and analysis of future investments
will be undertaken rigorously and decisions will be made on stricter and more demanding criteria. Further investment will
be an important part of the Group’s future and fortunately our relatively strong balance sheet affords us the opportunity to
be acquisitive. Through targeted and timely investment, we believe that there is considerable scope to grow certain of our
existing businesses and, in time, to generate shareholder value through these investments. 
The Board recommends the payment of a ﬁnal dividend of 0.5p, providing a full year dividend of 2.0p which will
allow for planned reinvestment in the Group’s businesses.
Edouard Stern, Chairman
Chairman’s report to shareholders
