  
2 Delta plc 
Chairman’s statement 
 
 
Overview 
 
I am pleased to report that the Group 
achieved significant improvements in both 
operating and financial performance during 
the year:   
 
• Basic earnings per ordinary share 
increased by 51% from 7.0p to 10.6p 
before exceptional items and goodwill 
amortisation. 
 
• Operating profit from continuing 
businesses increased 18% from £26.7 
million to £31.6 million, and for the first 
time in many years, exceptional items did 
not impact the Group’s profitability.  As a 
result, net profit for the year improved 
from last year’s £5.4 million loss to a 
£14.8 million profit. 
 
• Cash generation also improved 
significantly – with the net cash inflow 
from operating activities increasing from 
£27.6 million to £37.4 million.  The 
Group’s net cash balance increased 
accordingly, from £21.2 million last year 
to £42.6 million at 1 January 2005. 
 
• This overall progress was achieved despite 
significant challenges in certain markets:  
the Galvanizing and Industrial Supplies 
divisions contributed substantially 
improved profits which, when combined 
with reductions in Group head office 
costs, more than offset the adverse impact 
of unfavourable currency exchange rates 
upon our Manganese businesses as well as 
reduced volumes at Delta EMD.  The 
Chief Executive’s review covers operating 
performance in more detail. 
 
With respect to balance sheet items, cash 
outflows relating to disposal provisions were 
effectively controlled and  several open issues 
relating to businesses previously sold were 
successfully resolved.  Favourable investment 
performance from the Delta Pension Plan 
during the year, combined with the 
resumption of Company contributions and 
other proactive measures agreed with the 
plan trustee, have resulted in a significant 
reduction in the reported FRS 17 pension 
deficit.  Given the size and importance of 
the Plan to the Group, the ongoing funding 
position continues to be monitored closely. 
 
As previously reported, the Group continues 
to co-operate with the European 
Commission’s competition directorate 
investigation into allegations of anti-
competitive behaviour among certain 
manufacturers of copper plumbing fittings, 
including the Group’s former plumbing 
fittings business.  The Group retains some 
responsibility in relation to the Commission’s 
investigation, and the investigation is 
expected to result in a fine, although given 
the stage of the procedure, the Commission’s 
considerable discretion in imposing fines and 
the avenues for appeal, estimating the level of 
fine that might finally be imposed is not 
possible. 
 
 
Ongoing priorities 
 
Efforts to sharpen the Group’s strategic focus 
have also progressed with the disposal during 
the year of the Group’s shareholding in 
Cobra Investments (Pty) Ltd.  In addition, the 
review by Delta Electrical Industries Limited 
of the options available to realise value in the 
South African Industrial Supplies businesses 
is well underway. 
 
A thorough review of the global EMD 
market is nearly complete with opportunities 
for the possible development of Delta EMD’s 
business now better defined.  Encouragingly, 
global demand for EMD continues to 
improve and other suppliers’ remaining 
stocks appear largely depleted.   
 
Our galvanized steel products and services 
businesses benefited substantially from 
renewed management focus, and our 
Australian operations are now well 
positioned for further improvement in their 
healthy local market infrastructure, mining 
and construction industries.  We also have 
identified opportunities to improve the
   
Delta plc 3 
 
 
strategic position of our US and Asian 
galvanized steel products and services 
businesses, and those opportunities will be 
progressed during 2005. 
 
During 2005 the emphasis on increasing 
investment returns and cash generation is 
likely to result in further refocusing of the 
business portfolio.  Investment opportunities, 
whether organic or acquisition related, will 
be actively pursued, but only where they 
meet our stringent return criteria.  Equally, 
value enhancing offers for businesses that are 
not central to the Group’s future will be 
actively considered.  
 
Progress has been made during 2004 and it is 
gratifying for our patient shareholders that 
this has recently been reflected in the Group’s 
share price.  The contributions of all the 
Group employees who made this progress 
possible are very much appreciated and we 
look forward to further progress during 
2005. 
 
 
Board changes 
 
The Board was saddened by the sudden 
death of our former Chairman, Mr Edouard 
Stern, just a few weeks prior to the 
finalisation of this annual report.  Edouard’s 
commitment to the Group’s development, 
both as Chairman and also as its largest 
shareholder, will be very much missed. As the 
senior independent director, I have agreed to 
act as Chairman for the time being. 
In that capacity, I would like to thank Tony 
Pedder, who stepped down as a director 
during the year, for his considerable 
contribution to Delta during his six years on 
the Board. 
 
As reported previously, Mark Robson will 
leave the Group during April 2005. Mark 
Luton and Paul Marriott have been 
appointed Director – Finance and Adminis-
tration and Director – Treasury and Corp-
orate Services, respectively. In due course, a 
Finance Director will be appointed and will 
join the Board. 
 
It is the intention to strengthen the Board in 
the near term through the appointment of 
additional non-executive directors. 
 
 
Dividend 
 
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 2.4p per share (2003 0.5p), resulting in a 
full year 2004 dividend of 3.0p (2003 2.0p).  
At this level, the 2004 dividend is covered 3.5 
times by earnings per share before 
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.  
 
With the progress now being made in 
increasing cash generation and investment 
returns, the Board judges that this level of 
cover should support a progressive dividend 
policy in future years whilst also enabling 
appropriate levels of capital investment in 
organic growth opportunities. 
 
 
 
 
Steven Marshall, Chairman 
 
