  
4 Delta plc 
Chief Executive’s review 
 
 
2004 Results 
 
The Group’s profit for the year totalled 
£14.8 million (2003 £(5.4) million), resulting 
in earnings per ordinary share of 9.7 pence 
(2003 (3.7) pence).  Earnings per share 
before exceptional items and goodwill 
amortisation improved by 51% to 10.6 
pence (2003 7.0 pence). 
 
Whilst the Group’s continuing turnover 
improved by 4.4%, our operating profit 
from continuing businesses improved by 
18%, from £26.7 million to £31.6 million, 
with the improvement driven by increased 
earnings from our Industrial Supplies and 
Galvanizing divisions, together with reduced 
Group costs, which more than offset the 
adverse impact of unfavourable exchange 
rate movements on Delta EMD and 
Manganese Metal Company, as well as 
reduced volumes at Delta EMD.  Reviews of 
the performance of each of the Group’s 
divisions are provided below. 
 
Unlike recent years the Group incurred no 
net exceptional items during the year.  
Consequently the Group’s profit on ordinary 
activities before interest totalled £33.4 
million, compared to £17.4 million during 
the prior year. 
 
The Group’s net interest expense excluding 
foreign exchange differences on financing 
balances reduced from the prior year with the 
interest earned on the Group’s cash balances 
largely off-setting the interest expense 
incurred at the Group’s joint ventures.  
Taxation, as a percentage of the Group’s 
profit on ordinary activities before taxation, 
also was reduced substantially during the 
year, partly as a result of the reduction of 
losses in certain tax jurisdictions.  In 
particular, the Group’s UK trading loss was 
reduced through Group cost reductions, and 
last year’s US trading loss was turned around 
to profit through improvement at our US 
galvanizing operations. 
 
Efforts to improve the Group’s cash flow 
were successful, with the Group’s 2004 net 
cash inflow before purchase/sale of 
businesses and equity dividends totalling 
£19.8 million, a marked improvement over 
last year’s net cash outflow on the same basis 
of £2.5 million.  The Group’s year end 
reported net cash balance increased from 
£21.2 million to £42.6 million and remains 
available for the payment of dividends, re-
investment in the Group’s businesses and 
resolution of the matters remaining that 
relate to former businesses.  Provisions 
totalling £17.5 million remain for specifically 
identified legacy matters.  The Group also 
remains party to the EU Commission’s 
investigation of the copper fittings industry as 
discussed more fully below. 
 
 
Exchange rate movements 
 
The Group’s results were, and continue to 
be, affected by currency exchange rates and 
movements.  Most importantly, the margins 
realised by Delta EMD and Manganese 
Metal Company are determined in part by 
currency exchange rates, with the majority of 
both businesses’ sales being US dollar 
denominated and their production costs 
other than ore purchases being local currency 
denominated.  The functional currency of 
both businesses was US dollars.  
Consequently, the substantially stronger 
South African rand and Australian dollar 
against the US dollar significantly increased 
production costs and reduced margins at 
both businesses as reported below. 
 
Exchange rate movements also affected the 
Group’s results through the revaluation of 
Delta EMD’s local currency account 
balances.  The £0.3 million of losses realised 
by Delta EMD on the revaluation of non-
financing account balances were included in 
Delta EMD’s reported profit, whilst the £2.7 
million of losses realised on the revaluation 
of Delta EMD’s local currency financing 
account balances were included in the 
Group’s reported interest expense. 
 
Finally, the translation of the Group’s non-
UK earnings was affected by exchange rates. 
The weaker US dollar against Pound Sterling 
resulted in lower translated results from our    
Delta plc 5 
 
 
 
Manganese and US galvanizing businesses.  
Conversely, the stronger Australian dollar 
and South African rand against Pound 
Sterling benefited the translation of results 
from our Industrial Supplies and Australian 
galvanizing businesses.  Overall, the Group’s 
profit before tax was enhanced by £0.5 
million compared to 2003 as a consequence 
of translation exchange rates. 
 
 
Review of 2004 trading and prospects 
 
 
Delta EMD 
 
Delta EMD produces electrolytic Manganese 
dioxide at plants located in South Africa and 
Australia and sells EMD globally for use in 
the production of dry cell  batteries.  Delta 
EMD is owned by Delta Electrical Industries 
Limited (DEI), a South African company 
listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. 
Delta plc holds 56.4% of DEI’s outstanding 
shares. 
 
Delta EMD made important progress during 
the year developing a broader customer base 
and establishing additional supply 
arrangements in the developing Asian 
markets.  During 2005 Delta EMD expects 
to supply all the major battery producers and 
to sell substantial volumes for Asian based 
battery production.  Delta EMD will 
continue to produce at capacity during 2005 
and expects to sell additional volumes from 
remaining stocks. 
 
This important progress was made 
notwithstanding difficult trading during the 
year.  The tonnes sold by Delta EMD during 
the year were substantially less than during 
2003 as a consequence of reduced share in 
the US market, which followed the 
uncertainty created by the anti-dumping 
investigation commenced, and later 
withdrawn, by Kerr-McGee, a US-based 
EMD producer. 
 
Whilst further operational efficiencies and 
cost savings were realised during the year, US 
dollar denominated margins weakened 
significantly due to strengthening of the 
Australian dollar and South African rand 
against the US dollar and resulting increases 
in US dollar accounted production costs.  
Consequently, Delta EMD’s underlying 2004 
US dollar earnings fell well below those 
achieved in 2003, and the weakening US 
dollar also adversely impacted the translation 
of those US dollar earnings to Pound Sterling 
when compared to 2003 by £0.6 million.  
The average exchange rates during the year 
for the South African rand and Australian 
dollar against the US dollar were 6.45 and 
1.36, respectively, compared to 7.53 and 
1.54 during 2003.  The importance of the 
foregoing exchange rates is unique to Delta 
EMD, as other EMD producers’ local 
manufacturing costs are borne in US dollars, 
Euros, Yen or the RMB, and their results 
would be affected only if and to the extent 
those currencies moved against the US dollar.   
 
Delta EMD’s 2004 profit was £5.2 million 
on turnover of £34.2 million compared to 
£15.8 million on sales of £45.9 million in 
2003.  2004 profit was enhanced by £3.9 
million of profit on foreign exchange 
contracts (2003 £5.5 million) but not by any 
favourable out-of-period provision 
movements (2003 £2.4 million).  The 
expenditures made during 2004 with respect 
to the US anti-dumping investigation were 
only a small portion of the £1.0 million 
expended during 2003.  The loss realised on 
the revaluation of non-financing local 
currency account balances totalled £0.3 
million (2003 £1.5 million), and the loss 
realised on the revaluation of local currency 
financing account balances, which was 
reported as interest expense, totalled £2.7 
million (2003 £3.2 million).  The reduction 
in Delta EMD’s 2004 underlying profit 
compared to 2003 should be attributed to 
volume shortfall and less favourable 
exchange rates, together, to a lesser extent, 
with the increasing cost of Manganese ore.  
 
Consistent with Delta EMD’s long-standing 
practice and our recognition that global 
EMD demand continues to grow, production 
continued at capacity during the year at both 
plants to ensure the lowest possible cost of   
6 Delta plc 
 
 
 
production.  Consequently, stocks increased 
during the year requiring additional cash 
investment. 
 
Underlying demand for batteries and EMD 
continues to grow globally, particularly the 
alkaline grade EMD produced by Delta 
EMD, with recent additional demand 
prompted by several hurricanes in the US as 
well as additional military and security 
requirements.  Growth in Asian battery 
consumption exceeds that in the US and 
Europe, and consumer preference in Asia 
continues to shift from lower performance 
Zinc Carbon batteries to higher performance 
alkaline batteries.  Delta EMD’s total 
capacity for the production of alkaline grade 
EMD now exceeds 60,000 tonnes and can be 
increased only marginally through further 
operational efficiencies.  Existing stocks 
should allow Delta EMD to meet growing 
demand in the near term. 
 
Additional global demand for EMD is likely 
to be met in part from the additional 
production capacity planned by Chinese 
competitors.  Elsewhere, current pricing and 
exchange rates are unlikely to encourage 
investment in additional capacity.  EMD 
pricing continues to reflect the balance 
between global supply and demand, as well 
as a fairly concentrated customer base, and 
unlike many other globally supplied 
speciality materials, pricing has not increased 
in line with the increased cost of raw 
materials (Manganese ore) or the weakening 
US dollar.  Pricing for supply in the US 
continues to migrate toward global prices 
with additional supply of lower priced EMD 
from China being sold in the United States.  
The agreed increase in the Japanese 
benchmark price for Manganese ore also is 
likely to add further pressure on higher cost 
EMD producers as well as on global EMD 
pricing. 
 
Delta EMD remains a low cost producer of 
alkaline grade EMD, and Delta EMD’s long-
standing reputation for quality and service, 
together with operational efficiencies and 
proximity to high grade Manganese ore, 
should enable Delta EMD to maintain a 
favourable position in this growing market.  
Delta EMD’s 2005 margins and profit will 
depend upon currency exchange rates and 
movements during the year.  Delta EMD has 
discontinued covering forward sales with 
foreign exchange contracts; consequently, 
with the expiry during 2004 of the foreign 
exchange contracts previously purchased by 
Delta EMD, Delta EMD will not benefit 
from foreign exchange contract profits 
during 2005.  
 
 
Manganese Metal Company 
 
MMC produces electrolytic Manganese 
metal in South Africa for use globally in the 
production of specialty steels and aluminium 
as well as the manufacture of electronic 
components.  MMC is a member of the BHP 
Billiton Group, with Delta plc holding 49% 
of MMC’s outstanding shares. 
 
The global market for electrolytic Manganese 
metal was robust during 2004 with 
exceptional demand from global steel and 
aluminium producers.  Limited supply from 
China, due to the allocation of electric power 
and alternative uses of productive capacity, 
affected the market’s supply and demand 
dynamics and selling prices improved 
substantially.  MMC continues to be the sole 
supplier of Selenium free Manganese metal 
and is recognised for superior quality and 
reliable supply, affording MMC a premium 
to the quoted market price for Manganese 
metal.  MMC’s average selling price during 
2004 did not reflect fully the improved 
market pricing because much of MMC’s 
production is supplied through annual 
contracts.  MMC produced at full capacity 
during the year and continues to do so to 
meet demand. 
 
Improved market conditions allowed MMC 
to reduce its loss from last year 
notwithstanding US dollar denominated 
margins weakening significantly due to 
strengthening of the South African rand and 
resulting increases in US dollar accounted 
production costs.     
Delta plc 7 
 
 
 
The Group’s 49% share of MMC’s 2004 
loss was £1.4 million on sales of £22.2 
million, compared to a loss of £2.1 million 
on sales of £19.1 million in the previous year. 
The weakening US dollar favourably 
impacted the translation of MMC’s US dollar 
loss to Pound Sterling, with the loss reduced, 
in comparison to 2003, by £0.2 million. 
 
Global demand for Manganese metal 
continues to be strong and MMC remains a 
reliable supplier of quality product essential 
to the manufacture of specialty steels, 
particularly Series 200 stainless steel, and 
Aluminium.  MMC’s proximity to high 
grade Manganese ore and reliable electrical 
power continues to afford MMC a 
competitive advantage, and its Selenium free 
material remains preferred by many 
environmentally responsible customers. 
Whilst MMC’s production capacity remains 
efficient and relatively low cost, all other 
global Manganese metal production is based 
in China, with lower costs.  Unlike Chinese 
competitors, whose local manufacturing 
costs are borne in the RMB, MMC’s margin 
reduced during the year with the weakening 
of the US dollar.  Whilst MMC anticipates 
favourable volumes and pricing during 2005, 
profitability will remain dependent upon the 
strengthening of the US dollar against the 
rand.  
 
 
Galvanizing 
 
Delta’s galvanizing businesses provide hot-
dip galvanizing services as well as fabricated 
galvanized steel products for local 
infrastructure, construction and mining 
projects in Australia, Asia and the United 
States.  Our galvanizing operations include 
nine hot-dip galvanizing plants in 
Australasia, five in Asia and five in the 
United States.  Webforge’s steel gratings 
business remains the Group’s largest 
galvanized steel products business with five 
plants in Australasia and six plants in Asia.  
Ingal EPS and Ingal Civil Products fabricate 
galvanized steel products for Australian 
markets, including safety barriers, 
underground steel structures and lighting, 
power and telecommunication poles and 
towers. 
 
Our galvanizing businesses performed 
markedly better during the year with profit 
of £12.5 million (2003 £8.3 million) on 
turnover of £131.1 million (2003 £124.2 
million).  This important improvement was 
achieved through focus on our existing 
businesses, reduced overhead costs and the 
turnaround or discontinuation of certain loss 
making businesses.  Our 2004 profit was not 
buoyed by any out-of-period provision 
movements (2003 £0.9 million) and 
benefited from improved volumes in most 
markets.  More favourable Australian dollar 
exchange rates flattered our reported 2004 
Pound Sterling profit for the Galvanizing 
division when compared to 2003 by £0.2 
million. 
 
Our Australian hot-dip galvanizing and 
galvanized steel products businesses provide 
attractive financial returns.  Their success is 
driven by the strong market positions 
enjoyed by our nine hot-dip galvanizing 
plants in each of their local job shop 
galvanizing markets, the strong market 
positions enjoyed by our steel fabrication 
businesses, and a synergistic relationship 
between our steel fabrication businesses and 
hot-dip galvanizing plants, with our steel 
fabrication businesses providing our 
galvanizing plants necessary base load. 
 
The profitability of our Australian 
galvanizing and steel products businesses 
continues to be driven by general economic 
conditions and infrastructure, construction 
and mining spend, which were strong during 
the year in Australia.  The increased cost and 
limited availability of steel disrupted demand 
in some sectors during the year and required 
careful management.  Profitability also was 
determined in part by the price of Zinc, 
which increased substantially during the year, 
with those price increases having to be 
absorbed as additional cost in our more price 
competitive markets.  These challenges were 
met successfully by our Australian 
management team, who also substantially 
improved the performance of    
8 Delta plc 
 
 
 
certain historically under-performing 
operations. 
 
During the 1990s the Group attempted to 
transplant our successful Australian business 
model to both the United States and Asia, 
with investments in the acquisition of 
existing galvanizing businesses as well as 
Greenfield developments.  Those investments 
have not achieved the same scale, market 
position or synergies that we enjoy in 
Australia, and do not provide the same 
financial returns as our Australian businesses.  
However, in 2004 turnover, as measured in 
local currencies, improved in both Asia and 
the United States, which, together with 
reduced overhead costs, afforded 
substantially improved profit in both 
geographies.  Our US operations reported a 
profit for the first time in many years. 
 
Webforge, which was acquired in February 
2003, achieved further growth in both 
turnover and profit during the year, with 
particularly robust demand in China.  The 
performance of Webforge continues to meet 
our original expectations and important 
synergies have been achieved with our 
galvanizing operations in overlapping 
geographies.   
 
General economic conditions and 
infrastructure, construction and mining 
spend continue to be strong in Australia.  
Certain Asian economies continue to be 
healthy and demand is improving slowly in 
the United States.  Unfortunately market 
conditions for hot-dip galvanizing services 
continue to be extremely competitive in the 
US and Asia, partly due to over-capacity.  
Whilst further incremental improvement 
should be achieved in both operational 
efficiencies and overhead cost savings in all 
three geographies, profitability will remain 
partly dependent upon the cost of Zinc as 
well as the price and availability of steel.  
 
Industrial Supplies 
 
Our Industrial Supplies businesses provide 
goods and services to local mining, 
transportation and construction industries in 
South Africa and Australia, including the 
repair of large electrical equipment, the 
supply of ground engaging tools, 
replacement parts for heavy equipment, 
grinding media, and copper wire and 
conductors.  The Group’s South African 
based Industrial Supplies businesses are 
owned by Delta Electrical Industries Limited 
(DEI).  Delta plc holds 56.4% of DEI’s 
outstanding shares.  
 
Our Industrial Supplies businesses enjoyed 
particularly successful trading in 2004, with 
robust demand in the South African electrical 
repair market and good market conditions in 
Australia.  Profit increased from £15.6 
million to £20.7 million on turnover that 
increased from £132.1 million to £150.0 
million.  Our 2004 Pound Sterling profit for 
the Industrial Supplies division was flattered 
by £0.6 million in comparison to 2003 by 
translation with more favourable South 
African rand and Australian dollar exchange 
rates. 
 
Our Industrial Supplies division’s very good 
result masks the many challenges successfully 
managed by our South African and 
Australian management during the year.  
Exchange rate volatility in South Africa 
affected local market conditions, and the 
price and availability of both Copper and 
steel affected several of our South African 
businesses.  Robust demand from the South 
African rail transportation and industrial 
power distribution markets was successfully 
managed notwithstanding scarcity of Copper 
supply.  Our Australian management 
successfully managed substantial steel price 
increases and limited availability ensuring 
continued production and favourable 
margins.  Overhead cost savings also 
contributed to the improved profit in 
Australia. 
 
Our Industrial Supplies businesses are well 
managed, enjoy good market positions in 
their local markets and on the whole 
continue to provide attractive returns and 
cash flows. The favourable market 
conditions enjoyed during the year continue 
for the moment, with demand for grinding    
Delta plc 9 
 
 
 
media and for electrical repair particularly 
strong.  The volatility of Copper and steel 
pricing as well as exchange rates will 
continue to affect local market conditions 
and margins, and our future Pound Sterling 
profit will be affected by translation of local 
currency profit.  
 
 
Group cash flow 
 
Substantially improved cash management 
afforded the Group £37.4 million of net cash 
flow from operating activities (2003 £27.6 
million), notwithstanding cash requirements 
during the year for stock build at Delta EMD 
and the higher value of Zinc, Copper and 
steel stocks.  
 
Capital expenditures totalled 100% of 
depreciation including exceptional 
investments by Delta EMD for additional 
capacity and by Electrical Repair Engineering 
for the purchase of a formerly leased facility.    
 
Following the discontinuation during 2003 
of the Group’s former practice of net asset 
hedging, no cash was required during the 
year to settle foreign exchange contracts 
relating to net asset hedging (2003 £12.2 
million).  We also substantially reduced 
certain loan balances within the Group 
allowing a reduction of the foreign exchange 
contracts required to hedge those balances.  
Consequently, no cash was required to settle 
those contracts during the year (2003 £4.0 
million). 
 
The cash required for the payment of 
taxation was reduced from last year’s total of 
£10.1 million to £9.6 million, with a more 
favourable mix of profit and loss, and net 
interest payments were reduced from last 
year’s expense of £2.8 million to income of 
£1.0 million with our improved cash 
balances. 
 
The cash required for payments against 
provisions totalled £2.1 million (2003 £2.1 
million) and related principally to retained 
obligations relating to former businesses. 
 
At year end, the Group’s reported net cash 
balance was £38.4 million (excluding £4.2 
million of cash within Delta Insurance 
Limited).  The Group’s year end net cash 
balance was buoyed by proceeds from the 
sale of the Group’s 37.6% shareholding in 
Cobra Investments (Pty) Ltd (£4.2 million), 
the sale of properties formerly used by 
disposed businesses (£2.7 million), and the 
sale and leaseback of the Australian vehicle 
fleet (£1.3 million).   
 
As is generally accepted accounting practice, 
the Group reports the cash flow and cash 
balances of all entities under its control, 
including those that are not 100% owned.  
The cash flows and cash balances 
immediately available to the Group include 
only the dividends received from entities that 
are not wholly owned, as opposed to those 
entities’ entire cash flows and cash balances.  
Consequently, the cash available to the 
Group is less than the Group’s reported 
consolidated cash balance, and includes £2.2 
million (2003 £2.5 million) of cash held by 
entities not wholly owned by the Group and 
therefore not immediately available to the 
Group.  The portion of the Group’s reported 
net cash balance that was unrestricted and 
otherwise immediately available to the 
Group in wholly-owned subsidiaries 
increased during the year from £14.3 million 
to £36.2 million.   
 
Cash management remains a priority and 
further focus will be made on working 
capital management with the likelihood that 
Delta EMD’s stock’s will reduce during the 
year releasing some working capital.  The 
value of the Group’s Zinc, Copper and steel 
stocks will continue to vary with the price of 
those commodities, and stock levels will 
continue to vary in line with management of 
supply.   
 
 
Delta Pension Plan 
 
Favourable investment performance during 
the year further improved the FRS 17 
position of the Delta Pension Plan, as    
10 Delta plc 
 
 
 
suggested by the reported year end FRS 17 
net deficit, which reduced from £27.2 million 
as at 3 January 2004 to £10.0 million as at 1 
January 2005, as disclosed in the notes to our 
accounts.  
 
The plan trustee has implemented an 
investment strategy that reflects the mature 
liability profile of the plan with a 70% target 
allocation to fixed income investments and 
the remainder mostly invested in UK and 
overseas equities, with the fixed income 
investments including both government and 
corporate bonds.  This investment strategy 
reflects the trustee’s confidence in the 
Group’s on-going financial ability to make 
plan contributions in the future that could be 
necessary to address past service obligations, 
if for example, experience is adverse.  Should 
the trustee lose that confidence and 
implement a more conservative investment 
strategy, contributions may need to be 
increased from their present level.  
 
The Group reported a £0.3 million pension 
expense under SSAP 24 during 2004 and 
plans to continue to contribute 
approximately that amount to the plan in 
2005 for future service obligations. 
 
The plan’s assets and liabilities remain 
substantial, particularly in proportion to the 
Group.  The regulatory environment, as well 
as applicable laws and regulations, continue 
to change in light of concern generally over 
the funding status of pension plans, and 
longevity generally continues to increase.  
The plan’s liabilities, as well as future 
contribution requirements, could be affected 
by such changes, and also could be affected 
by longevity increases if borne out in practice 
by the plan’s experience.  Consequently, the 
Group and the plan trustee continue to seek 
all reasonable means to improve further all 
aspects of plan management and 
administration. 
 
Legacy matters 
 
Whilst several matters relating to former 
business were successfully concluded during 
the year, several legacy matters remain.  
During the year, payments against remaining 
provisions totalled £2.1 million, and £1.2 
million of provisions were released for 
matters finally concluded.  At year end, the 
provisions remaining for matters relating to 
former businesses totalled £17.5 million.  
Those provisions relate to the Group’s 
former Electrical Division and other disposed 
businesses. 
 
Included in that total is a provision for the 
legal expenses to be incurred in connection 
with the European Commission’s 
competition directorate investigation into 
allegations of anti-competitive behaviour 
among certain manufacturers of copper 
plumbing fittings, including the Group’s 
former plumbing fittings business.  
Notwithstanding the Group’s subsequent 
disposal of that business, the Group retains 
some responsibility in relation to the 
outcome of the Commission’s investigation 
and is co-operating fully with the 
Commission.  Whilst the investigation is not 
subject to a prescribed timetable, the 
Commission could issue a Statement of 
Objections during 2005, and a final decision 
(including any fine) would follow thereafter.  
Legal counsel have advised that applicable 
regulations limit the fines that could be 
imposed to 10% of the Group’s total 
turnover in the business year preceding the 
imposition of the fine. The investigation is 
expected to result in a fine, however the 
Commission is afforded considerable 
discretion in the determination of such fines 
as well as in the reduction of fines imposed 
on parties who seek leniency and co-operate 
with the Commission.  Given the stage of this 
particular investigation and the 
Commission’s considerable discretion in 
determining fines, it is not possible to 
estimate the level of fine that might be 
imposed upon the Group.  Any decision by 
the Commission could be appealed to the 
European Courts, although an appeal would 
not typically suspend payment of a fine.  
Consequently no provision has been raised in 
respect of this matter except for legal 
expenses expected to be incurred in 
connection with the investigation.    
Delta plc 11 
 
 
 
The Group’s legacy matters continue to be  
resolved and many have specific time 
limitations.  We expect the majority of these 
matters to be resolved during the next three 
years. 
 
Two further matters relate to the Group’s 
former businesses: surplus properties and tax 
losses.  As noted above, during the year the 
Group successfully disposed two sites 
formerly used by disposed businesses and 
received sales proceeds totalling £2.7 million.  
Three such sites remain for disposal, and two 
of those are likely to be disposed during 
2005.  The Group also remains party to 
leases for three sites formerly used by 
disposed businesses and continues to 
negotiate termination of those leases.  
Provisions remain for the cost of those leases, 
and the sales proceeds expected during 2005 
from the sale of formerly used properties will 
be of a scale similar to those proceeds 
received during 2004.  The remainder of the 
properties owned by the Group are 
manufacturing, distribution or sales facilities 
or offices employed by the Group’s 
businesses.  The reported value before 
depreciation of the Group’s properties 
totalled £52.6 million.  Included in that total 
are £13.3 million for the estimated value of 
properties revalued through professional 
valuations prior to 2000, and £39.3 million 
of original cost for properties not revalued, 
including properties acquired or developed 
since 1999 having a reported cost of £21.9 
million.  The Group discontinued revaluing 
properties in 1999.   
 
Set out in the Financial review and notes on 
the accounts is a description of the tax losses 
accumulated by the Group in the past. 
 
Strategic direction 
 
Our focus during 2004 was on the first of 
three planned stages for the Group’s 
improved performance and development.  
Our priorities were to improve the Group’s 
financial performance by improving the 
performance of under-performing businesses, 
reducing Group-wide overhead costs, and 
improving the Group’s cash flow through 
working capital management and careful 
investment.  Improving the transparency of 
the Group’s results and providing a more 
detailed explanation of the Group’s 
businesses, as well as the Group’s legacy 
matters, also were an essential objective of  
our first stage.  These objectives were largely 
met during the year.  The challenge going 
forward is to make further improvements as 
a continuation of this first stage. 
 
The second stage of the Group’s strategy 
involves narrowing the Group’s strategic 
focus by reducing our geographic spread as 
well as the diversity of our business portfolio, 
thereby simplifying the drivers that determine 
the Group’s success and facilitating more 
focused management.  The Group remains 
an opportunistic seller of businesses that lie 
on the periphery of the Group’s strategy, and 
will dispose of those businesses when best 
possible to realise shareholder value, as 
demonstrated by the sale of our 37.6% 
interest in Cobra Investments (Pty) Limited 
during the year.  The Group also has notified 
the market of the cautionary announcement 
made by Delta Electrical Industries Limited 
to the effect that DEI continues to consider 
the options that are available in South Africa 
to realise value in its Industrial Supplies 
businesses.  Whilst these businesses continue 
to perform well in attractive markets, 
opportunities to realise more immediate 
shareholder value are under review. 
 
The third stage of the Group’s strategy will 
be re-investment.  As reported last year, the 
Group has demonstrated success in three 
areas: the management and development of 
Delta EMD’s global business, the operation 
of galvanizing businesses when well 
positioned by sound investment decisions, 
and the operation of small industrial 
businesses having good market positions in 
relatively small, stable and local markets. 
Delta EMD and the Group’s Galvanizing  
Division remain immediate opportunities for 
investment. 
 
As noted above, underlying demand for 
primary batteries and EMD continues to 
grow globally, particularly for the alkaline    
12 Delta plc 
 
 
 
grade EMD produced by Delta EMD.  Delta 
EMD’s competitive cost structure and proven 
quality and service afford a substantial 
foundation for additional capacity, if justified 
by EMD selling prices.  How best to realise 
further profitable growth in the global EMD 
market is under review.   
 
Our Galvanizing Division also affords  
opportunities for possible re-investment.  
Our Australian hot-dip galvanizing and 
galvanized steel products businesses are well 
positioned for incremental investment to 
sustain or improve their financial 
performance.  The scale of such investment is 
likely to be limited, with smaller bolt-on 
acquisitions the most likely opportunities.  
Our Asian and US hot-dip galvanizing and 
galvanized steel products businesses do not 
yet enjoy the same favourable market 
positions, and corporate activity will be 
required to improve upon their market 
positions, synergies and financial 
performance.  Careful  consideration is being 
given to determine how best to realise value  
 
from the investments made in those 
geographies. 
  
The scale of investment necessary for 
additional production capacity at Delta EMD 
and for further development of our 
Australian galvanizing businesses is unlikely 
to require the resources that will be available 
to the Group.  Consequently, the Group’s 
development may well include investment in 
a substantial business that provides the 
Group additional opportunities for profitable 
growth as well as the continuity necessary for 
the Delta Pension Plan. 
 
Our principal objectives for 2005 are further 
incremental improvement in the Group’s 
financial performance, narrowing the 
Group’s strategic focus through further 
disposals and opportune re-investment in 
both Delta EMD and our Galvanizing 
Division.  We also will commence 
exploration of possible targets for a 
substantial business that provides the Group 
additional opportunities for profitable 
growth. 
 
 
 
 
Todd Atkinson, Chief Executive 
