 06
Chief Executive’s Review
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2007 RESULTS
The Group’s profit after tax for the year from continuing operations and
before exceptional items improved by 6.1% to £21.0 million (2006: £19.8
million), providing basic earnings per share from continuing operations and
before exceptional items of 13.9 pence (2006: 12.8 pence).
The Group’s total profit included several exceptional items including a £13.9
million charge related to closure of Delta EMD’s Australia plant, as well as
gains on sales of businesses and assets. Including exceptional items and
discontinued operations, the Group’s profit for the year attributable to equity
holders was £21.8 million (2006: £6.3 million), providing basic earnings
per ordinary share attributable to equity shareholders of 14.2 pence (2006:
4.1 pence).
The Group’s year end net cash balance increased from £107.0 million to
£128.9 million.
REVIEW OF 2007 TRADING AT THE GROUP’S CORE BUSINESSES
Engineered Steel Products
The Group’s Engineered Steel Products businesses performed well during
the year and improved upon the prior year’s performance. Operating profit
increased by 4.1% to £15.3 million (2006: £14.7 million) on continuing
revenue that increased by 10.7% to £147.4 million (2006: £133.1 million).
Ingal Civil Products (ICP) performed well with improved revenue and a
successful move to a leased facility as well as the commissioning of new
more automated roll forming equipment and a bespoke galvanizing facility.
One-off costs associated with the move, commissioning and product
development reduced operating profit from the prior year as expected. The
remediation of ICP’s former site proved more difficult and expensive than
expected and has delayed the sale of that site. The Australian government’s
investment in infrastructure continued, and highway refurbishment and
safety remained a priority. ICP was well positioned to participate in the
growing market, and ICP’s new plant and equipment began to provide ICP
further competitive advantages. Product and business development efforts
also progressed and afforded ICP entry into new market segments. Whilst
competition from Asian imports remained, the market continued to
appreciate ICP’s product quality and service, and the total cost advantages
afforded Asian producers waned.
Ingal EPS also enjoyed good market conditions with expenditure on power,
telecommunication and lighting pole products remaining strong. Ingal EPS
maintained its attractive market position and improved revenue by enlarging
its position in more highly engineered segments and sourcing product from
lower cost producers in Asia. Margins reduced
somewhat with a different sales mix, increased price competition and
increased production costs. Whilst sourcing product produced offshore has
provided Ingal EPS attractive opportunities for reducing the cost of sales for
engineered products, imports also have increased price competition for
standard products. The cost advantages of sourcing from China varied
during the year with changes in offshore steel and production costs as well
as export duties, and Ingal EPS optimised the benefits of both local and
offshore production.
Webforge Australia’s volumes and revenue softened modestly during the
year with a levelling-off of the market demand for industrial gratings. Some
large sales opportunities were deferred as construction projects were slowed
by limited construction capacity, and competition heightened from local
producers as well as from imports, particularly for standard gratings.
Margins reduced modestly with price competition and increased costs for
steel and galvanizing. Nonetheless, Webforge Australia’s financial
performance was very good with revenues that have increased substantially
over the past three years.
Webforge Asia performed exceptionally well during the year, with improved
volumes and revenue. Volumes were enhanced by several large projects,
and business development efforts in Vietnam and the Middle East
progressed very well. The capacity afforded by last year’s investment in
additional forge welder capacity in China was utilised and a further forge
welder has been ordered. Whilst competition remained strong throughout
Asia, substantially increased steel costs were recovered through price
increases, allowing Webforge Asia to maintain good margins and profit
throughout the year.
Donhad’s volumes sold and revenue improved during the year, with supply
to several mines restored following trials of Chinese grinding media.
Movements in steel costs were addressed in large part through selling price
movements, and contribution margins were stable. Donhad’s good result
belies a year of significant change; Donhad’s domestic steel supplier,
OneSteel, acquired Donhad’s domestic competitor, ComSteel, and mines
continued to trial Chinese product in efforts to qualify adequate supply for
future growth and to enhance price competition. Donhad’s quality and
service remained a competitive advantage during the year, whilst increased
steel costs in China, changes in export rebates and duty, and other cost
pressures affected the relative cost of Chinese product.
Market conditions for Investment Tooling International (ITI), the Group’s
remaining business in the United Kingdom, remained difficult. Cost savings
implemented last year reduced ITI’s trading loss, and working capital
reductions assured favourable cash flows.
Galvanizing Services
The Group’s Galvanizing Services businesses performed very well during
the year. Revenue from continuing operations increased by 18.3% to £84.5
million (2006: £71.4 million) with selling prices that reflected the higher
cost of zinc stocks.
Zinc prices again moved dramatically during the year from approximately
US$4,000 to US$2,300 per metric tonne, almost completing the cycle
commenced at the beginning of 2006 when Zinc prices were US$1,900
per metric tonne. Consequently, the FIFO metal profits that enhanced 2006
operating profit were not repeated during the year, and some FIFO metal
losses were suffered. Nonetheless, good market conditions afforded the
selling prices necessary to offset FIFO metal losses as well as
“The Group’s core businesses remain
attractive platforms for investment.
During the year an effective network
was established to identify and assess
investment opportunities and
considerable progress was made.”
Todd Atkinson Chief Executive
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 6 Chief Executive’s Review
07
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
inflationary cost increases, and operating profit from continuing operations
remained very good, declining only by 6.1% to £12.3 million (2006: £13.1
million). The decline in Zinc prices also reduced the value of Galvanizing
Services’ Zinc stocks.
Galvanizing volumes in Australia were restrained by capacity and the
additional capacity added during 2006 was utilised with demand remaining
strong at all locations. Ownership changes amongst competitors and
additional market capacity did not adversely affect market conditions, and
selling prices afforded the recovery of higher priced Zinc. The development
of a greenfield site in Melbourne is under way and the first phases for
refurbishment of three other plants were completed at year end. Further
incremental improvements in operational efficiencies were achieved during
the year, offsetting increased operating costs and providing very good
financial results.
Galvanizing volumes softened modestly in the United States with the
absence of the large projects that enhanced volumes during 2006. A
softening home construction market substantially reduced steel lintel sales
and related galvanizing. Market conditions remained competitive but
afforded the recovery of the higher cost of Zinc. Operational efficiencies and
reduced natural gas costs also assisted margins, and US Galvanizing
operating profit improved from last year.
Asian galvanizing volumes were mixed, with Malaysian volumes improving
substantially, Indonesian volumes remaining very good and Vietnam
volumes declining further. Market conditions afforded selling prices to
recover the higher cost of Zinc, except in Vietnam, and operating profit
improved significantly in Malaysia and Indonesia. Those businesses have
been reclassified as continuing and the Group’s shareholdings in them will
be retained and managed by the Group’s Asian-based management team
responsible for Webforge Asia. The Group’s shareholding in the Vietnam
galvanizing operation has been sold.
AusZinc’s financial performance was more directly affected by the
substantial decline in the cost and selling price of Zinc. AusZinc’s input
costs and selling prices are closely tied to the LME Zinc price; consequently,
a substantial decline in the LME Zinc price exposes AusZinc to significantly
reduced margins on stock produced with higher cost Zinc. A combination
of reduced margins and the absence of the FIFO metal profits enjoyed
during 2006 resulted in a substantial reduction in AusZinc’s operating profit,
notwithstanding good volumes. Galvanizing Zinc volumes sold improved
modestly, whilst the export sale of zinc oxides improved substantially. The
consolidation of the agricultural fertiliser market as well as the significantly
higher cost of fertilisers containing Zinc resulted in a further reduction in
volumes sold of agricultural fertiliser grade zinc oxide.
REVIEW OF 2007 TRADING AT THE GROUP’S MANGANESE
MATERIALS BUSINESSES
Delta EMD
2007 was another difficult year for Delta EMD, and a further pre-exceptional
operating loss of £(4.9) million resulted (2006: £(4.6) million). Whilst Delta
EMD’s local currency revenues improved, the weakening of the South
African rand against the pound sterling reduced reported revenues by 1.4%
to £34.5 million (2006: £35.0 million).
Demand for EMD in the US, Europe and Japan has declined with battery
production migrating to China and the use of larger cells declining in favour
of small cells that require less EMD. The EMD market remains oversupplied
with price competition whilst the cost of manganese ore and
ENGINEERED STEEL PRODUCTS
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta’s Engineered Steel Products businesses produce road safety barrier
systems, power transmission and distribution, lighting and telecommunications
poles, industrial grating and access systems, and forged steel grinding media.
Top: Architectural sunscreen.
Left: Forged steel grinding media.
Right: Power transmission pole.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 7 08
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
other inputs continue to increase substantially, resulting in poor margins.
The profitability of EMD producers also continues to vary as a result of
movements in the value of the US dollar against local currency production
costs.
The operating losses incurred during the year were due to under-recovery
of production overheads at Delta EMD’s Australian operation following the
decision to reduce production in order to reduce stock levels. In addition,
the devaluation of the US dollar against the Australian dollar, operational
inefficiencies and one-off costs associated with defending anti-dumping
investigations contributed to the operating losses.
Production costs at Delta EMD’s Australian plant are higher than at the South
African plant, and the performance of the Australian plant has been
adversely affected for some time by the strong Australian dollar. Future sales
opportunities for the Australian plant also will be limited as a consequence
of the expected outcomes of the US and Japanese anti-dumping
investigations. As a result, production at the Australian operation will cease
and the facility will be closed and the assets liquidated. Closure of the plant
will prevent future losses and will generate cash.
Closure costs of £13.9 million were included in this year’s accounts in
respect of the Australian plant and include the impairment of plant assets,
stock, redundancy payments and estimated restoration and rehabilitation
costs. The value of the land at the Australian plant and residue disposal site
remain at book value due to the uncertainties associated with realisable
value once restored and rehabilitated. Following the decommissioning of
the Australian plant, the sale of the plant assets and land is expected to be
complete within two years and could result in a profit on sale. Opportunities
for accelerating the disposal of these assets, reducing the estimated
restoration and rehabilitation costs and realising gains on the sale of the
assets and land are being pursued. The liquidation proceeds are anticipated
to fund the costs to be incurred in decommissioning the plant, undertaking
the required restoration and rehabilitation of land and disposing the assets
and land.
Manganese Metal Company (MMC)
Following substantial losses and the then forthcoming closure of MMC’s
Krugersdorp plant in 2006, the Group impaired its share of MMC’s net
assets. Consequently, MMC’s financial results are not reflected in the
Group’s accounts. Given MMC’s substantially improved financial position
and performance in 2007, a further valuation has been undertaken and the
impairment of the Group’s share of MMC’s net assets has been partially
reversed in this year’s accounts. Nonetheless, it is not anticipated that
MMC’s financial results will be reflected in the Group’s consolidated income
statement until 2009.
Demand for electrolytic manganese metal from steel and aluminium makers
remained strong during 2007 and selling prices increased substantially as
supply from MMC’s Chinese competitors become less reliable and more
costly. MMC enjoyed good volumes and substantially improved selling
prices, which provided attractive margins, good operating profit and cash
flow. MMC’s borrowings reduced substantially during the year, and good
progress was made toward the restoration and rehabilitation of the
Krugersdorp plant. Environmental assessments of the Krugersdorp plant
site are ongoing and will determine the remediation required, for which
provisions were made in 2005.
CASH FLOW AND BALANCES
The Group’s cash generated from operations before tax totalled £26.9
million (2006: £12.5 million) and reflects favourable working capital
movements. The value of Zinc stocks held by our Galvanizing Services
businesses reduced with the lower cost of Zinc, and Delta EMD’s inventories
reduced following the decision to limit production at Delta EMD’s Australian
plant.
A total of £0.4 million was paid in resolution of matters related to the Group’s
large UK-based businesses disposed from 1998 to 2003. These matters
continue to be resolved efficiently and at year end the provisions remaining
for such matters were reduced from £4.7 million to £1.9 million.
The Group’s net cash balance increased to £128.9 million at year end
(2006: £107.0 million), of which £113.4 million is held in wholly owned
subsidiaries.
MANAGEMENT RESOURCE
The Group has been fortunate to retain and attract capable employees
throughout the Group notwithstanding very tight labour markets. The year’s
success reflects their efforts and enthusiasm for successfully developing
the Group’s businesses.
Since assuming responsibility for the Group’s Galvanizing Services and
Engineered Steel Products businesses in October 2003, Jim Simpson has
managed substantial improvement in the performance of those businesses.
Management teams also have developed and investments in those
businesses have commenced.
Paul McNicholl has joined the Group as Managing Director – Australia. Paul
previously served as General Manager of the Steel & Tube division of
OneSteel Limited and as President of Tubemakers Steel. Paul has assumed
responsibility for the Group’s Australian-based Galvanizing Services and
Engineered Steel Products businesses and is based in Brisbane.
David Wong who has successfully managed Webforge Asia has accepted
appointment as Managing Director – Asia, and in addition to Webforge
Asia’s operations, David will assume management responsibility for the
Group’s galvanizing operations in Malaysia and Indonesia. David will be
based in Kuala Lumpur.
Sandy Robertson who has successfully managed the recent successes of US
Galvanizing will serve in the role of Managing Director – North America.
Following an orderly transition of his responsibilities, Jim will retire from the
Group, and the divisional managing directors will each report to me. We
“The development of a greenfield site
in Melbourne is under way and the first
phases for refurbishment of three other
plants were completed at year end.”
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 8 Chief Executive’s Review
09
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
thank Jim for his seventeen years of service to the Group and in particular
for his most recent efforts and accomplishments.
DELTA PENSION PLAN
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Delta Pension Plan (the “Plan”) as at
5 April 2006 was concluded during the year and determined the value of
the Plan’s liabilities to be £663.5 million, resulting in an actuarial deficit of
£5.4 million.
The valuation was determined using a discount rate estimating the
investment return expected as at the valuation date for high quality
corporate bonds with durations similar to the Plan’s liabilities. Earlier
valuations used a higher discount rate reflecting the Plan’s investment
strategy. More conservative mortality tables (the PxA92 c2020/c2006 tables)
also were selected for use by the Plan actuary. A recent analysis of the
Plan’s mortality experience suggests that members are not currently living
as long as implied by these tables, so there is implicit allowance for some
future increases in longevity.
During the year only contributions necessary to cover pension benefit
accruals for the Plan’s few active members were required, and no
supplemental cash contributions were made. The Plan’s modest deficit was
expected to be restored by the Plan’s 10% return seeking assets which are
expected to generate returns greater than the discount rate.
The Plan’s IAS 19 net surplus at year end was £9.5 million (2006: £0.2
million net deficit). This surplus has not been recognised because of
uncertainty over its recoverability. The IAS 19 total liabilities were
determined with a 5.8% discount rate, which estimates the year end
investment return for AA corporate bond with durations similar to the Plan
liabilities. The mortality tables used for the triennial actuarial valuation also
were used for determination of the 2007 IAS 19 liabilities, and are more
prudent than the table used for the 2006 IAS 19 determination.
The pension note included in these accounts includes estimates of the
Plan’s IAS 19 total liabilities determined with different discount rates. As
indicated by those sensitivity analyses, the estimated value of the Plan’s IAS
19 total liabilities increases substantially as the discount rate employed
approaches a risk-free rate of return. A “risk-free” valuation of the Plan
liabilities, i.e. a valuation that employs a risk-free discount rate, takes into
account the possible effects of inflation on annual pension increases and
uses mortality tables that allow for possible further increases in longevity,
would suggest a substantially greater value for the Plan’s liabilities.
During the year, a thorough investigation of possible means for reducing
the scale and risks associated with the Plan was undertaken. The
investigation included consideration of insurance buy-outs as well as full
and partial transfers of the Plan’s liabilities to third parties. Third party
providers generally employ risk-free valuation methodologies and the cost
of insurance buy-outs and liability transfers also includes the provider’s cost
of capital and profit requirements. Because insurance providers’ cost of
capital and profit requirements are substantial, the cost of insurance buy-
outs averaged approximately 130% of the Plan’s IAS 19 total liabilities. The
cost of capital and profit requirements of other providers are less and allow
solutions for the Plan that could be cost-effective.
GALVANIZING SERVICES
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta’s hot-dip galvanizing services are provided from nine plants in Australia,
three in Asia, and five in the United States. Delta also reclaims Zinc from ash
and dross and produces zinc alloys and oxides.
Top: A hot-dip galvanizing plant.
Left: Reclaimed Zinc.
Right: Zinc alloys.
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 9 10
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
The Group is now engaged in exclusive discussions with the Plan trustee
and a particular provider to determine an appropriate structure and terms
and conditions for the transfer of some or all of the Plan’s liabilities to the
provider. The Pension Regulator has been advised of the proposed transfer
and will be consulted throughout. The cost of the proposal depends upon
several market conditions; specifically interest and inflation swap rates,
which determine the value of the Plan liabilities, and the value of the Plan’s
assets. We expect to conclude whether a transfer is possible and cost-
effective in the near term.
We also have analysed the benefits of an enhanced value transfer scheme,
through which deferred participants would be afforded an enhanced value
to transfer their pension benefits from the Plan to another scheme. The
Group would fund the enhanced value directly as a means for reducing the
scale and risks associated with the Plan. Whether to implement such a
scheme will be decided following our decision in respect of a transfer.
The Plan trustees have decided upon a revised investment strategy that
includes asset allocation benchmarks of 10% for return seeking assets and
90% of liability matching assets. The trustees have prepared for migration
of the Plan assets to the new strategy and have delayed the migration whilst
awaiting the possible transfer of the Plan’s liabilities and assets to a third
party.
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
The Group’s core businesses remain attractive platforms for investment.
During the year an effective network was established to identify and assess
investment opportunities and considerable progress was made. Investments
in a greenfield galvanizing plant and the refurbishment of three other
Australian galvanizing plants are under way, and decisions to invest in one
or more greenfield Webforge plants, as well as in additional capacity at
existing Webforge plants, will be made shortly. Investment in organic
development opportunities also have been made at Ingal Civil Products and
AusZinc.
The acquisition of Hi-Light Industries Pty Ltd has been completed. Whilst
small, the acquisition marks the beginning of the Group’s strategic
development through the acquisition of businesses that are closely related
to the Group’s existing businesses. The seeds cultivated during 2007 should
provide more acquisitions during the coming year, and David Thompson
has been appointed Director of Corporate Development to provide additional
resource for those efforts. David has worked in corporate development for
several years in Australia and will be based in Brisbane. The efforts made
during 2007 and the network established in Australia, Asia and the US
continue to identify attractive investment opportunities, several of which are
currently being pursued.
For the Group’s size, the geographic spread and diversity of the Group’s
businesses remain broad, and the overhead costs associated with the Group’s
historic structure, UK listing, and Delta Pension Plan remain high. Whilst those
costs continue to be reduced, they cannot be eliminated until management
resource is better aligned with the Group’s core businesses. During the year,
efforts will continue to focus the Group’s strategy upon our core businesses,
and the Group’s historic structure will be further simplified so that management
resource can be better aligned.
The Group’s profit, cash flow and underlying value are more than adequate
to support the Delta Pension Plan; nonetheless, the scale and risks
associated with the Plan remain substantial relative to the Group’s market
capitalisation. A better balance between the Plan’s liabilities and the Group’s
market capitalisation can be achieved by developing the Group’s businesses
and making further investments, by transferring some or all of the Plan’s
liabilities to a third party, or a combination of the two. The Group’s
investment strategy remains to invest in businesses that are closely related
to the Group’s existing businesses and through which value can be created
with our existing businesses. Consequently, developing the Group’s
businesses and making further investments alone is not likely to provide a
better balance in the near term given the size of the Group’s core
businesses. Only through a transfer of Plan liabilities to a third party can a
better balance be achieved in the near term.
Consequently, the benefits of transferring some or all of the Plan’s liabilities
to a third party remain attractive and we recognise that the appropriate
measure for the cost-effectiveness of a liability transfer should not refer only
to the Plan’s IAS 19 surplus or deficit. A decision to invest in a solution for the
Plan also should consider the risks avoided by that investment, i.e. the risks
associated with investment of the Plan’s assets, inflation and increased
longevity, which remain material relative to the Group’s equity. A resolution of
the Plan also would clarify the Group’s equity value.
Our focus will remain on developing the Group’s core businesses and making
further investments, as well as reducing the geographic spread and diversity
of the Group’s businesses, simplifying the Group’s historic structure, and
aligning our management resource more effectively with our core businesses.
2008 PROSPECTS
Core Businesses
The Group’s Galvanizing Services and Engineered Steel Products
businesses are relatively well positioned to weather the possibility of a global
economic slowdown. The geographic footprint of our core businesses mostly
encompasses better positioned economies and the dependence of our core
businesses upon consumer spending and residential real estate is limited.
Infrastructure spending and investment in mining is expected to remain
strong in Australia, and spend on infrastructure and industrial capacity is
expected to continue at reasonable levels in Asia. Whilst the outlook for the
US economy is less certain, only a small portion of US Galvanizing’s volumes
are tied to consumer spending or residential real estate and public
expenditure on infrastructure is not expected to reduce in the near term.
The Group’s results were affected in 2006 and 2007 by substantial
movements in the cost of Zinc and would be similarly affected during 2008
by further movements. Early indications suggest greater stability in the cost
of Zinc at levels below year-end stock values, which will require stable selling
prices to recover the higher cost of Zinc purchased last year. Steel prices
also are expected to be relatively stable and variances in prices for steel
supplied from different geographies have reduced, providing less advantage
to offshore competitors.
Competition with products imported from China continues to shape many of
the markets in which our core businesses participate. The cost advantages
afforded Chinese producers continue to reduce and changes in export rebates
and taxes have further reduced the advantages of exporting from China.
Whilst the Australian dollar remains strong, the Chinese renminbi continues
“We expect further progress during
2008 with the Group moving forward
with investments made in the
Group’s core businesses as well as
from acquisitions.”
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 10 Chief Executive’s Review
11
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
to strengthen against most currencies, reducing another historic advantage for
Chinese imports. Consequently, our core businesses are expected to compete
effectively against import competition.
The investments underway in our core businesses will not provide immediate
growth given the time required for construction of new capacity; acquisitions,
however, are expected to enhance earnings more immediately.
Delta EMD
In late February, the US claimant in the US anti-dumping investigation made
a further submission to the Department of Commerce seeking the
imposition of a punitive duty on all shipments of Australian EMD into the US
since late December 2007. The imposition of this punitive duty is expected
to be announced on 19 March 2008 in connection with the preliminary
determination on the antidumping matter by the Department of Commerce
and to be levied shortly thereafter. Delta EMD has disputed the US
claimant’s submission, but has been advised that the Department of
Commerce will most likely provisionally impose the punitive duty and require
the posting of a bond by Delta EMD to secure possible payment of the
punitive duty pending final determination of the matter by the International
Trade Commission in September 2008. At this stage it is not possible to
determine the amount of punitive duty that may be payable.
Following the closure of Delta EMD’s Australian plant during March 2008,
the demand for product produced at Delta EMD’s South African plant is
expected to be adequate.
Manganese ore prices will increase substantially in line with the recently
announced increase in excess of 300% in the Japanese benchmark price.
The substantially increased selling prices proposed by Delta EMD for 2008
will have to be increased further to recover the higher cost of manganese
ore.
Recent load shedding of electrical power in South Africa has disrupted
production at our South African plant and is likely to do so for some time,
resulting in reduced production. Existing stocks are expected to be
adequate to fulfil supply arrangements during the year.
Improved sales volumes and selling prices are expected to allow Delta
EMD’s South Africa plant to trade profitably. The Australian operation also
is expected to trade profitably with the sale of that plant’s limited 2008
production and remaining stocks. Overheads will be reduced as our
Australian operations are wound down.
Manganese Metal Company
The manganese metal market is expected to remain strong, and MMC’s
market position is expected to improve with supply of competitive product
from China remaining less reliable and becoming increasingly costly. MMC’s
production is likely to be limited and disrupted by inadequate supply of
electrical power in South Africa. Consequently, MMC is not likely to realise
the full market opportunity present. Nonetheless, market selling prices are
expected to provide MMC attractive margins, operating profit and cash flow,
provided further price increases allow full recovery of manganese ore cost
increases.
In summary, the financial performance of the Group core businesses during
2007 was pleasing although dampened by continued losses at Delta EMD.
Good progress also was made toward the development of the Group, whilst
considerable efforts were made to investigate cost-effective solutions for the
Delta Pension Plan. We expect further progress during 2008 with the Group
moving forward with investments made in the Group’s core businesses as
well as from acquisitions.
Todd Atkinson
Chief Executive
14 March 2008
MANGANESE MATERIALS
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta EMD is a leading global supplier of electrolytic manganese dioxide (EMD)
used in the manufacture of disposable batteries worldwide. Manganese Metal
Company (MMC) is a leading global supplier of manganese metal used in the
production of steel, aluminium and electronic components.
Top: Manganese briquettes.
Left: Electrolytic manganese dioxide is used in batteries.
Right: A manganese materials production plant.
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 11
