 02
Group at a Glance
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
BUSINESS DIVISIONS
Delta’s Engineered Steel Products businesses produce road safety barrier
systems, power transmission and distribution, lighting and
telecommunications poles, industrial grating and access systems, and
forged steel grinding media.
AUSTRALIA, ASIA, NEW ZEALAND AND THE UK
ENGINEERED STEEL PRODUCTS DIVISION
PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS
LOCATION
COMPANIES Ingal Civil Products
www.ingalcivil.com.au
Ingal Civil Products produces road safety
barriers including guardrail, wire rope safety
barriers and crash attenuation barriers.
INGAL EPS
www.ingaleps.com.au
Ingal EPS produces poles for
power transmission and distribution,
telecommunicatons and lighting.
Webforge
www.webforge.com.au
Webforge produces access systems including
grating, flooring, handrail and barriers, as well
as sunscreens, drainage gates and access
covers.
Webforge operates from eleven plants in Asia
Pacific including four plants in Australia, one in
New Zealand and six in Asia.
Donhad Pty Ltd
www.donhad.com.au
Donhad manufactures forged steel grinding
media for the mining industry and operates
from three plants in Australia, located in Perth,
Townsville and Newcastle. Delta plc holds 60%
of the outstanding shares of Donhad, with
MolyCop, the global leader in forged steel
grinding media and a subsidiary of the Scaw
Metals Group, holding the remaining 40%
shareholding.
Investment Tooling International Limited
www.iti-kirkby.co.uk
ITI operates from two sites in the United
Kingdom and manufactures a wide range of
steel tooling and moulds for use in commercial
and industrial applications.
% OF CONTINUING REVENUE
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 2 LOCATIONS
Engineered Steel Products
Galvanizing Services
Manganese Materials
Group at a Glance
03
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Delta’s hot-dip galvanizing services are provided from nine plants in
Australia, three in Asia, and five in the United States. Delta also
reclaims Zinc from ash and dross and produces Zinc alloys and oxides.
Industrial Galvanisers Corporation
Industrial Galvanisers Corporation operates hot-dip galvanizing
plants in Australia, Asia and the South East of the USA. Galvanizing
provides a superior protection against the corrosion of steel
products, and Industrial Galvanizing facilities are designed to
galvanize a variety of customers’ products, including large
structural steel, fabricated steel products and smaller
manufactured steel products.
Industrial Galvanizers Australia
www.ingal.com.au
Industrial Galvanizers America
www.indgalv.net
Industrial Galvanizers Asia
www.asia.indgalv.com.au
AusZinc Metals & Alloys
www.auszinc.com.au
AusZinc Metals & Alloys is an Australia-based business that
reclaims Zinc from the by-products of the Group’s Australian
galvanizing operations and recycles them to produce a variety of
Zinc alloys and oxides.
AUSTRALIA, ASIA PACIFIC AND UNITED STATES
GALVANIZING SERVICES
Delta’s interests in Manganese Materials businesses include Delta
EMD, a leading global supplier of Electrolytic Manganese Dioxide for
use in the manufacture of disposable batteries, and Manganese
Metal Company, a leading global supplier of manganese metal for use
in the production of steel, aluminium and electronic components.
Delta EMD
www.deltaemd.com
Delta EMD is a leading global supplier of electrolytic manganese
dioxide (EMD) used for the manufacture of disposable batteries
worldwide.
Delta EMD’s plants are located at Nelspruit, South Africa and
Newcastle, Australia.
Delta EMD is owned by Delta Electrical Industries Limited (DEI), a
South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange. Delta plc holds 56.4% of DEI’s outstanding shares.
Manganese Metal Company
www.mmc.co.za
Manganese Metal Company (MMC) is a leading global supplier of
electrolytic manganese metal used in the production of steel,
aluminium and electronic components. MMC produces only
selenium-free electrolytic manganese — the purest form of
manganese — to meet the specialised needs of its customers
around the world.
MMC has a production plant located in Nelspruit, South Africa.
MMC is a member of the BHP Billiton Group, and Delta plc owns
a 49% shareholding.
SOUTH AFRICA AND AUSTRALIA
MANGANESE MATERIALS
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 3
