 04
Chairman’s Statement
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
OVERVIEW OF 2007 RESULTS
The Group’s overall financial performance in the year was satisfactory. Profit
after tax from continuing businesses before exceptional items was up from
£19.8 million to £21.0 million, an increase of 6.1%. The results were
assisted by a solid performance at our Engineered Steel Products
businesses, a continued strong performance at the Galvanizing Services
businesses somewhat offset by the disappointing result at Delta EMD. Todd
Atkinson’s review covers the operations in detail.
Exceptional items include £13.9 million of business closure costs arising
from our exit from EMD production in Australia. Earlier in the year the same
business sold surplus land which generated a profit on sale of £1.8 million.
We have also partially reversed the impairment of our 49% holding in MMC
as that business continues to enjoy an improved trading performance and
prospects.
The Group ended the year with £128.9 million of net cash, which is
available for profitable investment in the Group, and also to fund any de-
risking measures relating to the Delta Pension Plan which the Board
considers to be appropriate.
The Group’s IAS 19 pension position showed a small surplus which has not
been reflected in the balance sheet due to the uncertainty over
recoverability. The triennial valuation undertaken at 5 April 2006 was
completed in 2007 and did not result in the Group needing to make any
cash contributions over and above the normal service cost for the active
employees. However, the longer term economic cost of the Plan is likely to
exceed the IAS 19 total liabilities.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2008
The Group has completed its first acquisition since 2003. This important
step signifies the culmination of a great deal of effort in making sure the
Group is well placed to pursue acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Further acquisitions during 2008 are anticipated. We have also approved
significant capital expenditure in our businesses for additional capacity,
especially in the Australian Galvanizing businesses where we are close to
capacity and the market continues to provide growth opportunities.
The Manganese Materials businesses, namely Delta EMD and MMC, have
enjoyed differing fortunes. In Delta EMD recent losses incurred and the
ongoing impact that current anti-dumping cases may have on the ability to
access certain markets led to the decision to close the Australian plant. This
should improve EMD’s ongoing trading performance, although the
marketplace needs to adjust to new pricing levels following significant ore
price and other cost inflation before we are confident of achieving good
economic returns. MMC, on the other hand, has seen its profitability
improve as world pricing of its core product has increased and the outlook
for MMC looks more positive.
The size of the Delta pension scheme relative to the Group’s market
capitalisation remains an issue that requires a long-term solution which
works for all stakeholders. Considerable effort has been expended in 2007
assessing the emerging alternative market for pension buy-outs. Whilst the
Board remains positive about the emergence of alternatives which challenge
the traditional insurance buy-out, the pricing of these options remains very
significant relative to the Group’s cash resources. We are hopeful of making
progress but any decision to proceed with a transfer of all or part of the Plan
liabilities will be underpinned by rigorous analysis to make sure that the
benefits outweigh the costs.
Engineered Steel Products
Access systems.
Steve Marshall Chairman
Galvanizing Services
Reclaimed Zinc.
Manganese Materials
Manganese flakes.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 4 Chairman’s Statement
05
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
BOARD AND EMPLOYEES
Kristen van Riel stepped down from the Board in October following the
disposal by the Stern Family Foundation of their substantial shareholding.
I would like to thank Kristen for his contribution to the Board since he was
appointed.
As with any Group the success of our businesses is brought about by the
many employees we have across the range of businesses in the disparate
locations in which we operate. I would like to thank them all for their
contribution to the results of the Group and to especially thank them for the
continuing efforts to maintain a safe and healthy working environment.
Jim Simpson has successfully run our non-EMD Australian businesses over
the last few years and will retire in 2008. I wish Jim well in his retirement
and thank him for his tremendous contribution to the Group. He is replaced
by Paul McNicholl, who joins us with a wealth of relevant steel industry
experience, and who I am sure will continue the success we have enjoyed.
We have also recently appointed David Thompson who joins us from Deloitte
Australia to head up our Corporate Development efforts in Australia and
Asia, two principal areas we wish to expand both organically and by
acquisition.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.4p per share (2006: 3.0p),
resulting in a full year 2007 dividend of 5.0p (2006: 4.5p).
Steve Marshall
Chairman
14 March 2008
“The Group has completed its first
acquisition since 2003. This
important step signifies the
culmination of a great deal of effort in
making sure the Group is well placed
to pursue acquisition opportunities as
they arise. Further acquisitions during
2008 are anticipated.”
Engineered Steel Products
Sunscreen products.
Galvanizing Services
Galvanizing Zinc.
Manganese Materials
Manganese metal.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 5
