 06 Delta plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2008     www.deltaplc.com
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
Chief Executive’s Review
.
Todd Atkinson
Chief Executive
2008 RESULTS
We are pleased to report that the Group’s revenue improved during the 
year by 24.2% to £330.8 million (2007: £266.4 million) and the Group’s 
profit after tax for the year from continuing operations and before 
exceptional items improved by 53.3% to £32.2 million (2007: £21.0 
million), providing basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
and before exceptional items of 17.0 pence (2007: 13.9 pence).
The Group’s total profit included exceptional items, including a £48.8 
million charge related to the de-scaling and de-risking of the Delta 
Pension Plan, a £2.8 million charge for closure costs and a £6.0 million 
gain on sale of surplus property. Including exceptional items and 
discontinued operations, the Group’s loss for the year attributable to 
equity holders was £3.2 million (2007: profit of £17.2 million), providing 
basic losses per ordinary share attributable to equity shareholders of 
5.7 pence (2007: basic earnings per share of 14.2 pence).
The Group’s year-end net cash balance decreased to £109.6 million 
from £128.9 million with the payment of £50.2 million toward the 
de-scaling and de-risking of the Delta Pension Plan.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 4.6 pence per share, 
which would provide a full year dividend of 6.5 pence per share (2007: 
5.0 pence per share).
REVIEW OF 2008 TRADING
Engineered Steel Products
The Group’s Engineered Steel Products division performed very well and 
improved upon the prior year’s performance. Operating profit increased 
by 39.2% to £21.3 million (2007: £15.3 million) on continuing revenue 
that increased by 36.3% to £200.9 million (2007: £147.4 million).
Ingal Civil Products (ICP) performed very well during the year with 
improved sales volumes and the effective management of higher steel 
costs. Further benefits were realised from ICP’s recent commissioning of 
new more automated roll forming equipment and a bespoke galvanizing 
facility, resulting in improved revenue and operating profit. The sale of 
ICP’s former site was concluded during the year, resulting in a 
£6.0 million exceptional gain and an additional £8.6 million cash 
inflow. ICP continued to benefit from a strong market position as well 
as highway refurbishment and infrastructure investments funded 
by the Australian government. The expansion of ICP’s business with 
additional product technologies also progressed with the development 
of alternative barrier systems, as well as the successful introduction of 
complementary products. ICP’s market position against foreign imports 
also improved during the year, as difficulties with competitors’ imported 
product were experienced in the marketplace, and the Australian dollar 
weakened.
The performance of Ingal EPS was disrupted during the year by 
difficulties with product sourced from China. The rectification required 
on imported poles at the beginning of the year disrupted production 
at Ingal EPS’s two Australian manufacturing plants and required 
considerable additional effort to assure timely supply, resulting in 
extra costs and poor efficiencies. The Australian market for power 
transmission and distribution poles and lighting poles remained strong 
during the year. Our market-leading supply of poles to the Australian 
“The Group’s 2008 
ﬁ nancial performance 
was exceptionally 
good, and a substantial 
reduction in the Group’s  
pension liabilities was 
achieved.”
16498DELTAPLC.indd   06 16498DELTAPLC.indd   06 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56 07
Chief Executive’s Review
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
market will require a combination of domestically produced 
products as well as imported products. Ingal EPS’s market strategy 
and operations will be focused during the coming year to properly 
service the Australian pole market, and improve Ingal EPS’s financial 
performance.
Webforge Australia performed very well during the year by 
maintaining its strong market position and effectively managing higher 
steel costs. Revenue and operating profit improved substantially 
on similar volumes, providing exceptional financial performance. 
Webforge management also successfully integrated Hi-Light 
Industries following acquisition at the beginning of the year, and have 
begun to realise the planned synergies between Webforge’s and Hi-
Light’s architectural products businesses. Webforge management also 
made further progress toward enlarging Webforge’s market shares 
in complementary products such as expanded metal products, civil 
products and planking.
Webforge Asia performed exceptionally well during the year. Sales 
volumes improved modestly and selling prices were successfully 
managed against volatile Asian steel prices and increasingly 
competitive markets. Revenue and operating profit improved over 
the prior year. Further progress toward the development of greenfield 
plants in Western China and the Middle East was made, and an 
additional forge welder will soon be commissioned at Webforge’s 
plant in Guangzhou, China. The greenfield plant in Chengdu, China is 
under construction and should be commissioned during the coming 
year. Efforts to develop Webforge Asia’s market positions in the Middle 
East, Vietnam and India also continued during the year with success.
Donhad’s volumes sold improved substantially during the year as 
Australian mining activity continued to be strong, and Donhad’s 
market position improved against foreign imports. Steel supply and 
costs were managed successfully, and markedly improved revenue 
and operating profit resulted. Donhad management also successfully 
managed the challenges of satisfying additional demand whilst 
continuing to develop opportunities to participate in developing 
market segments, such as Australia’s planned development of 
substantial magnetite iron ore mining capacity.
Market conditions for Investment Tooling International (ITI), the 
Group’s remaining business in the United Kingdom, continued to be 
difficult during the year; nonetheless, a small operating profit was 
achieved. At year end, one of ITI’s UK operations was closed at a cost 
of £0.7 million, and efforts to sell the other operation are now under 
way. 
Galvanizing Services
The Group’s Galvanizing Services division performed well during the 
year but didn’t match the very good performance of 2007. Zinc prices 
declined substantially during the year which pressured selling prices 
at the Group’s hot-dip galvanizing operations, and also particularly 
affected the financial performance of AusZinc, the Group’s zinc 
reclamation business. Galvanizing Service’s operating profit declined 
by 17.1% to £10.2 million (2007: £12.3 million) on continuing 
revenue that increased by 2.5% to £86.6 million (2007: £84.5 million).
Galvanizing volumes in Australia continued to be restrained by 
Engineered Steel 
Products
Galvanizing 
Services
Manganese 
Materials
60.7% 26.2% 13.1%
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta’s Engineered Steel Products businesses produce 
road safety barrier systems, power transmission and 
distribution, lighting and telecommunications poles, 
industrial grating and access systems, and forged steel 
grinding media.
ENGINEERED 
STEEL PRODUCTS
16498DELTAPLC.indd   07 16498DELTAPLC.indd   07 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56 08 Delta plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2008     www.deltaplc.com
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
.
capacity, as well as by difficulties recruiting and retaining labour in 
Australia’s labour market. Selling prices were managed effectively 
against substantial declines in zinc prices, resulting in improved 
value added per tonne, which offset higher labour costs. Revenue 
and operating profit consequently improved, and cash flows were 
enhanced as the value of zinc inventories declined. The development 
of a greenfield plant in Melbourne progressed, and the plant will be 
commissioned shortly. Upgrades to plants in Newcastle and Brisbane 
also progressed to plan, and Galvanizing management’s efforts to realise 
incremental improvements toward improved energy efficiencies and 
improved chemical utilisation continued with success.
US Galvanizing’s market position continued to improve during the year, 
and provided sales volumes similar to 2007 in softer market conditions. 
Economic conditions deteriorated during the year in the United States 
and adversely affected galvanizing volumes toward the end of the year. 
Whilst lower zinc prices heightened price competition in the United 
States, selling prices were well managed. FIFO zinc costs, as well 
as higher energy and labour costs, reduced margins and resulted in 
reduced operating profit. 
The performance of the Group’s Asian galvanizing operations varied 
during the year. Market volumes declined with deteriorating economic 
conditions and uncertain political environments, and price competition 
intensified with lower zinc prices and reduced market volumes. The 
Group’s two Malaysian operations performed reasonably well in 
difficult market conditions, but fell short of 2007’s very good result, 
whilst operating profit from the Group’s Philippine operation improved 
modestly. The performance of the Group’s galvanizing operation in 
Indonesia improved over the prior year, with good volumes and reduced 
zinc costs. Management’s efforts to optimise efficiencies and reduce 
costs also assisted, whilst necessary improvements were made to plant 
and equipment. 
AusZinc’s input costs and selling prices are determined with reference 
to the LME zinc price; consequently, AusZinc’s financial performance 
remains closely tied to movements in the LME zinc price. The year’s 
substantial decline in the LME zinc price significantly reduced AusZinc’s 
selling prices and margins on products produced with zinc residues 
sourced at higher prices. Consequently, AusZinc’s revenue and 
operating profit declined. AusZinc management nonetheless succeeded 
in realising good sales volumes and operational efficiencies. AusZinc’s 
share of the galvanizing zinc market was maintained, agricultural 
zinc oxide sales volumes improved, and zinc oxide export volumes 
were improved substantially. Management also successfully reduced 
inventories providing good cash flow and reducing AusZinc’s exposure 
to future zinc price movements. 
Manganese Materials
Delta EMD
The global market for electrolytic manganese dioxide (EMD) settled 
during the year with the closure of Delta EMD’s Australian production 
site, and the resolution of anti-dumping investigations in Europe, Japan 
and the United States. Demand for EMD for use in the manufacture 
of disposable batteries remained strong, and market selling prices 
reflected a more balanced market, affording recovery of higher input 
“We should be relatively well 
positioned to weather the most 
difﬁ cult economic conditions 
in 2009 and to continue 
investment in the Group’s 
core businesses.”
costs, particularly substantially higher manganese ore costs, as well as 
better margins. 
Consequently, 2008 was a markedly better year for Delta EMD: 
revenues increased by 25.5% to £43.3 million (2007: £34.5 million), 
and pre-exceptional operating profit improved to £9.2 million (2007: 
operating loss of £4.9 million). Sales revenue increased with improved 
selling prices and favourable exchange rate movements; however, total 
sales volumes declined during the year with the closure of Delta EMD’s 
Australian production site at the end of March 2008. Nonetheless, all of 
Delta EMD’s Australian stock that was on hand at the beginning of the 
year, or produced prior to closure of the Australian production site, was 
sold by year end, and sales volumes of South African product increased 
by 6% and exceeded production. Selling prices for EMD produced at 
the Group’s South African plant were increased at the beginning of the 
year by approximately 20% and by approximately 60% during April 
2008 when a substantial manganese ore cost increase was announced. 
Delta EMD’s remaining Australian stock was produced prior to the 
manganese ore cost increase and selling prices for that stock were not 
increased.
The operating profit reported by the Group for Delta EMD does not 
include £1.8 million of additional rehabilitation provisions required 
for Delta EMD’s Australian residue disposal and production sites, or 
£0.3 million of additional impairment charges related to Delta EMD’s 
Australian assets, both of which have been treated as exceptional 
closure costs. However, it does include £0.9 million of costs incurred 
managing the Australian production site since production ceased in 
March 2008, which is net of gains realised on the sale of certain supplies 
and raw materials, as well as £0.4 million of one-off costs associated with 
defending anti-dumping investigations (2007: £0.8 million). 
As planned, production at Delta EMD’s Australian production site 
ceased during March 2008. The plant was decommissioned during 
the year, and surplus supplies and raw materials were sold. Delta EMD 
continues to explore the possible sale of the 9 hectare production site 
with certain plant and equipment whilst also preparing for demolition 
and rehabilitation of that site. Discussions also continue with parties 
interested in purchasing Delta EMD’s Australian residue disposal site, a 
25 hectare site located on Kooragang Island.
Manganese Metal Company (MMC)
The financial performance of MMC during the year was exceptionally 
good. Market selling prices for electrolytic manganese metal (EMM) 
16498DELTAPLC.indd   08 16498DELTAPLC.indd   08 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56 09
Chief Executive’s Review
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
were high, and MMC maintained its market niche and price premium 
with superior quality and service. Demand for use of EMM as an 
alloying agent by steel and aluminium makers was high and provided 
good sales volumes. MMC management successfully managed 
disruptions to electrical power, and realised good operational 
efficiencies. Exceptionally good operating profit and cash flow 
resulted.
Our earlier impairment of the Group’s share of MMC’s net assets 
in 2005, which was partially reversed in 2007, was reversed in full 
during the year, resulting in a £6.4 million exceptional credit, and 
MMC’s fourth quarter results have been included in the Group’s 
accounts. 
Efforts to dispose MMC progressed during the year, and should be 
concluded shortly, provided a reasonable valuation can be funded. 
MMC has been reclassified to an asset held-for-sale on the balance 
sheet and thus accounted for as a discontinued operation.
Cash Flow and Balances
The Group’s cash generated from operations before tax totalled 
£49.0 million (2007: £26.9 million) and reflects improved operating 
profit and favourable working capital movements. The value of zinc 
inventories held by our Galvanizing Services businesses reduced with 
the lower zinc prices, and Delta EMD’s inventories reduced as the 
inventories remaining from Delta EMD’s Australian plant were sold. 
As described more fully below, the Group committed £50 million 
during the year toward the de-scaling and de-risking of the Delta 
Pension Plan.
Capital expenditure increased to £13.1 million during the year (2007: 
£7.5 million) and exceeded depreciation, which totalled £6.5 million. 
The total expenditure included expenditures toward Australian 
Galvanizing’s greenfield plant in Melbourne, Australia and Webforge 
Asia’s greenfield plant in Chengdu, China.
The Group’s net cash balance decreased to £109.6 million (2007: 
£128.9 million), of which £87.7 million is held by the Company or in 
wholly owned subsidiaries. The balance was enlarged during the year 
by favourable foreign exchange movements.
Delta Pension Plan
During the year the Delta Pension Plan (DPP) completed the 
purchase of a bulk annuity from Pension Insurance Corporation 
(PIC). The Group contributed £50 million to that purchase, and the 
DPP transferred specifically identified assets to PIC, all in exchange 
for a bulk annuity that insured the DPP’s obligations to participants 
who were retirees on 31 December 2007. Before year end, individual 
annuities were issued to those retirees, discharging any further liability 
to them. As the pensions payable to those retirees have now been 
secured through another source, and the Group’s pension liabilities 
have been reduced substantially, as indicated by the Group’s year 
end IAS 19 total liability of £197.2 million (2007: £631.2 million).
The participant population remaining in the DPP now includes only 
active and deferred participants, as well as those participants who 
retired after 31 December 2007. As the average age of the participant 
Engineered Steel 
Products
Galvanizing 
Services
Manganese 
Materials
60.7% 26.2% 13.1%
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta’s hot-dip galvanizing services are provided from 
nine plants in Australia, three in Asia, and ﬁ ve in the 
United States. Delta also reclaims Zinc from ash and 
dross and produces zinc alloys and oxides.
GALVANIZING 
SERVICES
16498DELTAPLC.indd   09 16498DELTAPLC.indd   09 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56 10 Delta plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2008     www.deltaplc.com
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
.
population is much younger, the mortality assumptions employed to 
determine the Group’s IAS 19 liability have been revised, and now 
include a medium cohort (i.e. PxA92MC). 
 These more prudent mortality assumptions contributed to a modest 
year end IAS 19 net deficit of £2.5 million (2007: net surplus of £9.5 
million). The Group’s IAS 19 total liabilities were determined with an 
assumed inflation rate of 2.5% (2007: 3.1%) and a 6.3% discount rate 
(2007: 5.8%), which estimates the year end investment return for AA 
corporate bond with durations similar to the DPP liabilities.
In anticipation of the DPP’s purchase of the PIC bulk annuity, the 
trustee Board revised the DPP’s investment strategy. As at 31 December 
2008, the DPP’s assets included £5.3 million of equity investments, 
£175.7 million of investment grade corporate bonds, and £13.7 
million of property and cash. The DPP fortunately avoided most of the 
consequences of the financial markets’ recent volatility.
Strategic Development
The Group’s core businesses remain attractive platforms for investment, 
and increasingly attractive opportunities for the development of those 
businesses through acquisition should be available during 2009. 
Our investment strategy remains to invest in businesses that provide 
complementary products or services, and that can be effectively 
integrated into a core business.
As importantly, the Group will continue to invest in our core businesses 
through organic investment to increase capacity where appropriate, 
to expand our geographic footprint, and to develop complementary 
products and services. 
The Group’s profits, cash flow and accumulated capital should allow 
such investment activities to continue during 2009 notwithstanding 
deteriorating economic conditions.
The geographic spread and diversity of the Group’s businesses remain 
unusually broad for a relatively small group, and the ownership of 
several of the Group’s business remains complicated by minority 
interests. The Delta Pension Plan, whilst substantially smaller following 
the PIC transaction, also remains an uncertain, long-term liability for 
the Group. As a consequence, the Group’s shares are not as actively 
followed or traded as would be desired. To increase the attractiveness 
of the Group, our strategic focus therefore remains to further de-scale 
and de-risk the Delta Pension Plan, and to simplify the Group around 
businesses with appropriate strategic focus.
2009 Prospects
Whilst the effects of deteriorating global economic conditions and the 
credit crunch are not presently apparent at all the Group’s businesses, 
our outlook for 2009 remains cautious. 
The Australian economy appears to be relatively resilient, and the 
Group’s core businesses remain relatively well positioned to endure 
deteriorating economic conditions. Nonetheless, we foresee some 
decline in sales volumes at the Group’s core businesses from the levels 
achieved in 2008. The benefit of continuing, and perhaps increased, 
government spend in Australia on infrastructure development and 
improvement is expected to be offset by the deferral or cancellation of 
projects requiring private funding, most likely resulting in reduced sales 
volumes. 
Mining output in Australia also is likely to reduce during the year, and 
Donhad’s sales volumes are expected to reduce. Donhad’s margins 
are likely to be affected by pressure on selling prices, as mining 
houses seek cost savings, and will be dependent upon sourcing cost 
competitive steel.
The markets served by the Group’s businesses in Asia and the United 
States will be affected by deteriorating global economic conditions 
and are not likely to benefit as immediately from government spend 
on infrastructure development and improvement. Asian markets also 
are likely to be affected by political instability and reduced foreign 
investment. Consequently, we expect sales volumes in Asia and the 
United States to reduce from 2008 levels and selling price competition 
to heighten. 
Input costs at the Group’s core businesses are expected to reduce 
during the year with reduced costs for energy, steel and zinc likely to 
reduce production costs. Inflationary pressures also are expected to 
reduce. Business unit management are prepared to reduce fixed cost to 
the extent possible should sales volumes reduce during the year.
“The Group’s core businesses 
remain attractive platforms 
for investment.”
16498DELTAPLC.indd   10 16498DELTAPLC.indd   10 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56 11
Chief Executive’s Review
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
MANGANESE 
MATERIALS
Engineered Steel 
Products
Galvanizing 
Services
Manganese 
Materials
60.7% 26.2% 13.1%
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta EMD is a leading global supplier of electrolytic 
manganese dioxide (EMD) used in the manufacture 
of disposable batteries worldwide. Manganese Metal 
Company (MMC) is a leading global supplier of 
manganese metal used in the production of steel, 
aluminium and electronic components.
Reduced battery sales and production are expected to reduce 
global demand for electrolytic manganese dioxide during the year. 
Consequently, Delta EMD does not expect to sell sufficient volumes 
during 2009 to fully utilise its South African plant, and does not intend 
to invest in stocks. The selling price increases necessary to recover 
higher conversion costs and to recover the overhead costs arising from 
plant under-utilisation were announced at the beginning of the year and 
have been implemented. Consequently, Delta EMD’s South African plant 
is expected to perform in line with 2008.
Reduced steel and aluminium production are expected to reduce 
demand for electrolytic manganese metal during 2009, and volumes 
produced and sold by MMC are expected to decline from 2008 levels. 
MMC’s selling prices also are likely to be affected by declines in market 
selling prices. Nonetheless, whilst MMC is not expected to match 2008’s 
exceptional result during the year, it is expected to perform well. 
In summary, the Group’s 2008 financial performance was exceptionally 
good, and a substantial reduction to the Group’s pension liabilities 
was achieved. Given the nature of the Group’s businesses and our 
geographic footprint, as well as the Group’s strong financial position, 
we should be relatively well positioned to weather the more difficult 
economic conditions in 2009, and to continue investment in the Group’s 
core businesses.
Todd Atkinson
Chief Executive
25 March 2009
16498DELTAPLC.indd   11 16498DELTAPLC.indd   11 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56
