 BUSINESS DIVISIONS
.
Engineered Steel Products Galvanizing Services Manganese Materials
% OF CONTINUING REVENUE
DIVISION
PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS
LOCATION
COMPANIES
Engineered Steel 
Products
Galvanizing 
Services
Manganese 
Materials
60.7%
55.3%
26.2%
31.7%
13.1%
13.0%
ENGINEERED STEEL PRODUCTS
AUSTRALIA, ASIA, NEW ZEALAND AND THE UK
 Delta’s Engineered Steel Products businesses produce road safety 
barrier systems, power transmission and distribution, lighting and 
telecommunications poles, industrial grating and access systems, 
and forged steel grinding media.
 Ingal Civil Products
www.ingalcivil.com.au
Ingal Civil Products produces road safety 
barriers including guardrail, wire rope safety 
barriers and crash attenuation barriers.
  
Ingal EPS
www.ingaleps.com.au
Ingal EPS produces poles for 
power transmission and distribution, 
telecommunications and lighting.
     
Webforge
www.webforge.com.au
Webforge produces access systems 
including grating, ﬂ ooring, handrail and 
barriers, as well as sunscreens, drainage 
gates and access covers.
Webforge operates from eleven plants in Asia 
Paciﬁ c including four plants in Australia, one 
in New Zealand and six in Asia.
Donhad Pty Ltd
www.donhad.com.au
Donhad manufactures forged steel grinding 
media for the mining industry and operates 
from three plants in Australia, located in 
Perth, Townsville and Newcastle. Delta plc 
holds 60% of the outstanding shares of 
Donhad, with MolyCop, the global leader in 
forged steel grinding media and a subsidiary 
of the Scaw Metals Group, holding the 
remaining 40% shareholding.
     
Investment Tooling International Limited
www.iti-manchester.co.uk
ITI operates in the United Kingdom and 
manufactures a wide range of steel tooling 
and moulds for use in commercial and 
industrial applications.
Hi-Light Industries Pty Limited
www.hi-light.com.au
Hi-Light manufactures and installs 
architectural sunscreen systems in Australia. 
It also supplies aluminium walkways and 
handrails.
2008
2007
02 Delta plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2008     www.deltaplc.com
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
Group at a Glance
16498DELTAPLC.indd   02 16498DELTAPLC.indd   02 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56 GALVANIZING SERVICES MANGANESE MATERIALS 
MANGANESE MATERIALS AUSTRALIA, ASIA, NEW ZEALAND AND THE UK
 Delta’s hot-dip galvanizing services are provided from nine plants 
in Australia, three in Asia, and ﬁ ve in the United States. Delta 
also reclaims Zinc from ash and dross and produces Zinc alloys 
and oxides.
 Delta’s interests in Manganese Materials businesses include 
Delta EMD, a leading global supplier of Electrolytic Manganese 
Dioxide for use in the manufacture of disposable batteries, 
and Manganese Metal Company, a leading global supplier of 
manganese metal for use in the production of steel, aluminium 
and electronic components.
 Industrial Galvanizers Corporation 
Industrial Galvanizers Corporation operates hot-dip galvanizing 
plants in Australia, Asia and the South East of the USA. 
Galvanizing provides a superior protection against the corrosion 
of steel products, and Industrial Galvanizing facilities are 
designed to galvanize a variety of customers’ products, including 
large structural steel, fabricated steel products and smaller 
manufactured steel products.
Industrial Galvanizers Australia
www.ingal.com.au
Industrial Galvanizers America
www.indgalv.net
Industrial Galvanizers Asia
www.asia.indgalv.com.au
AusZinc Metals & Alloys
www.auszinc.com.au
AusZinc Metals & Alloys is an Australia-based business that 
reclaims Zinc from the by-products of the Group’s Australian 
galvanizing operations and recycles them to produce a variety of 
Zinc alloys and oxides.
 Delta EMD
www.deltaemd.com  
Delta EMD is a leading global supplier of electrolytic manganese 
dioxide (EMD) used for the manufacture of disposable batteries 
worldwide.
Delta EMD’s plant is located at Nelspruit, South Africa.
Delta EMD is owned by Delta Electrical Industries Limited (DEI), 
a South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange. Delta plc holds 56.4% of DEI’s outstanding shares.
Manganese Metal Company
www.mmc.co.za
Manganese Metal Company (MMC) is a leading global supplier 
of electrolytic manganese metal used in the production of steel, 
aluminium and electronic components. MMC produces only 
selenium-free electrolytic manganese — the purest form of 
manganese — to meet the specialised needs of its customers 
around the world.
MMC has a production plant located in Nelspruit, South Africa.
MMC is a member of the BHP Billiton Group, and Delta plc owns 
a 49% shareholding.
 LOCATIONS
  Engineered Steel Products
  Galvanizing Services
  Manganese Materials
AUSTRALIA, ASIA PACIFIC AND THE UNITED STATES SOUTH AFRICA
03
16498 08/04/2009 Proof 1
Group at a Glance
16498DELTAPLC.indd   03 16498DELTAPLC.indd   03 10/04/2009   10:56 10/04/2009   10:56
