 Chairman’s Statement 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     4
Overview of 2009 Results 
2009 has seen a continuation of the excellent trading performance we enjoyed in 2008. Profit 
before tax and before exceptionals of £52.6 million was up 20%. Cash flow generated from 
operations before tax at £86.4 million was up 76%, assisted by reductions in working capital 
levels. This was achieved despite the global economic crisis but assisted by the fact that our 
operations are largely in markets which have proved to be more resilient than most. 
Engineered Steel Products, which accounts for just over two thirds of the Group operating profit, 
had a strong year. In Galvanizing Services we did feel the effects of lower volumes and an 
increase in pricing pressure as the lower volumes exposed additional capacity across the industry. 
Delta EMD continued its strong performance in 2009 and managed a second successive year of 
profits at very acceptable margins. 
The Group has continued to invest in its businesses with a new factory for Webforge opened in 
Chengdu and plans underway for new facilities to be established in the Middle East and Northern 
China. We also fully opened the new Galvanizing facility in Melbourne and completed some of 
the development spend on the other galvanizing plants. Due to the economic uncertainty it proved 
difficult to find suitable acquisitions but efforts continue to find attractive businesses that 
complement our existing businesses in the same geographic area. 
The Group’s consolidated net cash at year end amounted to £146.9 million. This, as I have 
previously stated, provides Delta with options to invest in the core operations, fund add-on 
acquisitions and when the time is right to consider further actions on the Delta Pension Plan 
(“DPP”).  
The future 
On 4th March 2010 the Board announced a recommended cash offer for Delta by Valmont 
Industries Inc (“Valmont”).  The offer comprises 185 pence per ordinary share and values Delta’s 
issued ordinary share capital at approximately £284 million. We believe this provides shareholders 
with an opportunity to realise fair value  for their Delta investment with certainty. 
The prospects for the Group’s core businesses remain good but the substantial cost of a full 
pension solution at the current time continues to limit strategic options. The planned disposal of 
the EMD business and an eventual exit from our shareholding in MMC are expected to be 
achieved in 2010. Any solution for the DPP, however, remains uncertain in terms of its timing and 
in the ultimate cost to shareholders.  
The Board has carefully considered retaining the DPP, completing the Manganese disposals and 
continuing for the foreseeable future with  Delta in its current form. Should the takeover not 
proceed, we will continue to monitor the cost of transferring the DPP. The indications are that the 
exit costs will remain substantial, and there is no assurance that they will reduce over time. 
Investment in the core businesses would continue, as with the new plants recently commissioned 
in both China and Australia during 2009. However, even allowing foreseeable organic investment 
plans plus some greater success in identifying and delivering add-on acquisitions in our core 
markets within the Asia Pacific region, it is unlikely that the Group’s surplus net cash can be 
substantially deployed. 
The remoteness of the Group’s operations from the PLC head office, it’s Executive management, 
and shareholders, and the scale of the DPP in relation to Delta’s  market capitalisation all represent 
significant issues for the Group. 
An alternative strategy for Delta, involving the pursuit of investment opportunities on a broader 
sectoral and geographic front, would represent a material change in the risk profile for existing 
investors. This would require prior shareholder consultation and necessitate a change in 
managerial and Board focus.  Chairman’s Statement (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     5
In the considered view of your Board, the immediate value and certainty being offered by 
Valmont represents the most attractive outcome.  
The Board has not recommended a final dividend in the light of the terms of the Valmont offer.  
In the event the offer lapses or is withdrawn, the Board would consider declaring a second interim 
dividend in relation to the year ended 31 December 2009. 
 
 
Steve Marshall 
Chairman 
8 March 2010 
