 Chief Executive’s Review  
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     6
Overview of 2009 Results 
We are pleased to report that the Group’s profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 
and before exceptional items improved by 9.1% to £37.1 million (2008: £34.0 million), providing 
basic earnings per share from continuing operations and before exceptional items of 20.2 pence 
(2008: 18.2 pence).  This improvement was made against difficult global economic conditions, 
with favourable exchange rates and with revenue of £333.0 million (2008: £330.8 million). 
The Group’s total profit for the year included £2.6 million of exceptional profit, whereas the year 
prior included £37.2 million of exceptional loss, including a £48.8 million charge related to the 
2008 de-scaling and de-risking of the Delta Pension Plan. Including exceptional items and 
discontinued operations, the Group’s profit for the year attributable to equity holders was £39.7 
million (2008: loss of £3.2 million), providing basic earnings per ordinary share attributable to 
equity shareholders of 21.2 pence (2008: basic loss per share of 6.0 pence). 
The Group’s net cash generated from operating activities totalled £73.8 million (2008: £39.0 
million), providing a year end net cash balance of £146.9 million (2008: £109.6 million) of which 
£122.0 million was held in wholly owned subsidiaries. 
Offer from Valmont Industries Inc.  
Valmont has made a recommended cash offer to purchase the Group’s ordinary shares for 185 
pence per share.   
The offer presented by Valmont provides a most attractive strategic outcome for the Group.  The 
Group’s shareholders would realise value for the Group’s progress over the past several years as 
well as for our businesses’ potential for further growth.  The Group’s businesses would become 
part of a substantially larger group that has similar strategic ambitions, management practices and 
culture, and the Group’s businesses, management and employees would have greater 
opportunities for new challenges and development.  As only a sale of the Group’s shares would 
result from the Valmont offer, the Group’s businesses and assets would remain in support of the 
Delta Pension Plan, preserving the strong covenant that has supported the plan responsibly over 
many years. 
Over the past several years the Board has sought attractive strategic outcomes for the Group.  The 
Delta Pension Plan and the Group’s relative size and complexity, geographic spread and more 
recently the global recession, have slowed or frustrated many of those efforts.  The Valmont offer 
is a particularly attractive outcome for the Group and its shareholders, and we are pleased to 
present it to our shareholders and to recommend it to them.  
Review of 2009 Trading 
Engineered Steel Products 
The Group’s Engineered Steel Products division performed better than expected during the year 
and improved markedly upon the prior year’s performance.  Operating profit increased by 47.9% 
to £31.5 million (2008: £21.3 million) on continuing revenue that increased by 8.9% to £218.7 
million (2008: £200.9 million). 
Ingal Civil Products (ICP) performed very well during the year with very good sales volumes and 
the effective management of selling prices as steel prices reduced substantially.  The Australian 
market for safety barrier systems proved resilient with continued public investment in highway 
development and improvement, and ICP successfully defended its market share against imported 
products notwithstanding a very strong Australian dollar. ICP’s market position strengthened 
further as further efficiencies were achieved with its automated roll forming equipment and 
bespoke galvanizing facility, and with further improved service and a superior product range.  
Product development efforts also progressed nicely during the year and should provide further 
product differentiation.    Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     7
The performance of Ingal EPS improved markedly during the year, with a return to profit after a 
difficult year in 2008. A new management team simplified the business and implemented 
improved systems and controls, assuring far better management of selling prices and costs. 
Margins improved significantly, and inventories were simplified and relocated to assure more 
timely delivery and reduced stock levels. Reasonable profit, reduced working capital and good 
cash flow all resulted. Given the similarities amongst Ingal EPS’s and ICP’s products, markets 
and customers, opportunities to integrate some activities of the two businesses have been 
identified, and first steps included combination of certain sales and distribution facilities.  The 
year’s successes demonstrate that Ingal EPS’s industry reputation and market position provide a 
solid foundation upon which an attractively profitable business can be developed further. 
Webforge Australia performed very well during the year against a backdrop of more difficult 
market conditions. Whilst sales volumes softened, selling prices were well managed and costs 
were reduced, particularly as steel prices fell during the year. Webforge management continued to 
build upon new market positions for complementary products such as expanded metal products, 
civil products and planking, and further developed effective distribution channels for standard 
gratings. Further operational efficiencies also were identified through the implementation of lean 
manufacturing techniques.   
Webforge Asia performed exceptionally well during the year. Sales volumes varied by 
geographic market but in total reflected Webforge Asia’s very good market positions and the 
continuation of large projects that had commenced before the economic crisis.  Selling prices 
were successfully managed against reducing steel prices as well as heightened competition in 
markets where volumes softened. Webforge Asia’s Greenfield plant in Chengdu, China was 
commissioned ahead of schedule and with a full complement of capable management and 
employees.  Planning, design and site procurement are well underway for similar facilities in 
Northern China and the Middle East. 
Donhad’s sales mix of grinding media includes a significant portion to gold and copper mines and 
consequently Donhad’s sales volumes didn’t suffer as much during the year as might have been 
expected with the general reduction in Australian mining activity. Donhad management 
successfully protected its market position against foreign imports notwithstanding a strong 
Australian dollar, and also successfully managed steel supply and cost during the year against a 
backdrop of reducing steel prices and increasing variances in the cost of domestic and imported 
steel. Selling prices also were well managed providing acceptable margins and profit in more 
difficult market conditions. Whilst anticipated development of additional mining capacity in 
Australia was delayed during the year due to uncertain global economic conditions, in many 
instances those plans are now again underway and should provide further growth in demand for 
grinding media.     
Galvanizing Services 
The Group’s Galvanizing Services division did not perform as well as expected during the year 
and fell below prior year performance. Galvanizing Services operating profit declined by 17.6% 
to £8.4 million (2008: £10.2 million) on continuing revenue that decreased by 10.5% to £77.5 
million (2008: £86.6 million).   
Galvanizing volumes suffered most immediately from the year’s worsened economic conditions.  
Volumes related to residential and commercial construction, consumer products and mining 
products and development deteriorated substantially, and price competition heightened in markets 
that suffered from the resulting overcapacity.  Last year’s substantial reductions in the cost of zinc 
also increased market pressures on selling prices, notwithstanding steady increases in the cost of 
zinc during the year.  Profit benefited from lower than expected energy costs and from cost of 
sales determined with FIFO accounting methodologies and reflecting lower zinc prices. 
Australian Galvanizing commissioned a new plant in Melbourne, Australia.  The facility includes 
a large kettle for structural steel as well as a spinning kettle for manufactured products.  The plant  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     8
also employs newer technologies intended to reduce energy consumption and emissions.  The 
former plant will be demolished and the plant site rehabilitated so that the site can be sold during 
2010.   
The Group’s US galvanizing operations performed well in difficult market conditions with a new 
management team and renewed focus on housekeeping, health and safety and operational 
efficiencies.  Market shares were maintained through provision of superior service and quality 
and without matching the lower pricing of our competition.  Margins improved as lower cost zinc 
turned over in galvanizing kettles, offsetting reduced volumes and providing acceptable profit 
given difficult market conditions. 
The Group’s Asian galvanizing operations performed better than expected given difficult 
economic and market conditions in both Malaysia and the Philippines.  Malaysian management 
continued to improve service and quality, assuring a favourable market position and share, and 
also managed selling prices and costs during the year, providing better than expected revenue, 
margins and profit.  Improved pole and tower sales volumes provided the Group’s galvanizing 
operation in the Philippines better base load volumes, and the contribution provided through pole 
and tower sales, as well as from the galvanizing operation, afforded much better profit and cash 
flow than during recent years. 
AusZinc’s sales volumes didn’t meet expectations as worsened economic conditions reduced 
demand for galvanizing zinc, zinc alloys and zinc oxides, and also reduced the availability of zinc 
residues, AusZinc’s feedstock.  Consequently AusZinc struggled to source sufficient residues and 
to meet reduced demand.  Nonetheless AusZinc’s profit improved during the year as the LME 
zinc price increased and favourable margins were realised on lower cost stocks.  As 
manufacturing activity improved late in the year, residue sources and demand for alloys and 
oxides improved and provide an improved outlook for AusZinc. 
Manganese Materials 
Delta EMD 
2009 was a very good year for Delta EMD: a substantially strengthened senior management team 
relocated to the Delta EMD facility in Nelspruit, South Africa, significant operational 
improvements were initiated, overhead costs were reduced, and financial performance remained 
strong notwithstanding more difficult market conditions. 
Delta EMD’s total revenue reduced by 15.0% to £36.8 million (2008: £43.3 million) due to sales 
from Delta EMD’s former Australian operation concluding during 2008.  More importantly, 
revenue from Delta EMD’s South African plant improved by 18% over 2008, with improved 
selling prices more than offsetting marginally lower sales volumes.  The 2009 operating profit 
reported by the Group for Delta EMD improved by 19.6% to £11.0 million (2008: £9.2 million), 
and was assisted by a stronger rand. 
Global demand for electrolytic manganese dioxide reduced during the year as consumer demand 
for batteries weakened with the global recession.  Sales volumes did not meet expectations and 
Delta EMD’s production was limited substantially to reduce stocks to desired levels.  The global 
market nonetheless remained well balanced and selling prices afforded the margins necessary to 
cover poor overhead recoveries and to provide an acceptable return. 
The majority of Delta EMD’s sales during the year were made in rand denominated selling prices, 
effectively protecting Delta EMD’s margins from foreign exchange movements.  This marks an 
important change from historic practice and assured more certain financial performance.  The 
strengthening of the rand during the year however reduced the competitiveness of Delta EMD’s 
rand denominated selling prices.  
Delta EMD’s stocks were simplified during the year to reduce stock levels and to assure more 
responsive delivery to key customers.  Delta EMD’s terms of sale also were changed so that title 
passed at the port of loading, also reducing Delta EMD’s stock levels.  These efforts together with  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     9
effective collection of outstanding receivables substantially reduced working capital levels and 
provided very good cash flow.  
Environmental assessments were concluded successfully during the year at Delta EMD’s former 
Australian plant site, confirming that the site is suitable for commercial and industrial uses 
without further remediation or rehabilitation. This will facilitate the sale of the site, and a 
demolition contractor has been contracted to demolish the remaining structures.  Earlier efforts to 
sell the site with those structures proved unsuccessful, and the site will now be marketed as a 
vacant site. An amendment to the environmental license governing the rehabilitation of the 
Kooragang Island residue disposal site was agreed with regulatory authorities during the year and 
allows a more cost effective rehabilitation of that site. Negotiations toward the sale of the 
Kooragang Island site are underway. These favourable developments allowed the provisions that 
had been established for the remediation and rehabilitation of those sites to be reduced, affording 
£5.7 million of exceptional profit. 
Subsequent to the year end Delta EMD Limited has commenced a process intended to realise 
shareholder value through a disposal of the Delta EMD business, Delta EMD Limited’s last 
remaining operation. The disposal process is well underway with considerable interest indicated. 
Manganese Metal Company (MMC) 
MMC performed well during the year but not at the exceptional levels achieved during 2008.  The 
Group’s share of MMC’s post-tax profit totalled £3.1 million (2008: £8.2 million, inclusive of a 
£6.4 million impairment reversal). Market selling prices and volumes softened with reduced 
global production of steel and aluminium. The relative strength of the rand against the US dollar 
also adversely affected margins. Sales volumes and selling prices improved during the second 
half of the year.   
Efforts to dispose of MMC by Samancor, MMC’s 51% shareholder, faltered during the year, 
resulting in an unattractive offer. The Group has decided against participating in that transaction 
and will account for MMC as a continuing operation whilst exploring other options for realising 
value from the Group’s 49% shareholding. 
Delta Pension Plan 
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Delta Pension Plan (“the Plan”) as at 31 March 2009 was 
finalised during the year.  The Plan’s assets at that date totalled £184.3 million and the value of 
the Plan’s liabilities totalled £232.8 million, resulting in a deficit of £48.5 million. In respect of 
the funding shortfall, annual contributions of £6.3 million will be required over the next ten years, 
the first of which was made during the year, and the remaining nine of which are to be made 
annually on 31 March until 2018. The Group also will fund the Plan’s administrative expenses, 
inclusive of pension protection fund levies, which in the aggregate are expected to total 
approximately £1.0 million per annum. 
The discount rate used to determine the Plan’s liabilities was fixed having regard to the Plan’s 
interim investment strategy (approximately 90% corporate bonds) that has been continued whilst 
opportunities to de-scale and de-risk the Plan are being sought.  A full investment review has 
commenced so that a revised investment strategy can be implemented during mid 2010 should a 
full buy out of the Plan remain unattractive.  If the revised investment strategy provides an 
anticipated investment return less than the assumed discount rate, the agreed recovery plan will be 
reviewed and adjusted accordingly. 
The Plan’s year end IAS 19 determination was made with actuarial and financial assumptions 
similar to those used for the actuarial valuation but as at different dates, and the net deficit totalled 
£71.2 million (2008: £2.5 million). The Group’s IAS 19 total liabilities were determined with an 
assumed inflation rate of 3.6% (2008: 2.5%) and a 5.7% discount rate (2008: 6.3%), which 
estimates the year end investment return for AA corporate bond with durations similar to the plan 
liabilities.  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     10
Cash Flow and Balances 
The Group’s cash generated from operations before tax totalled £86.4 million (2008: £49.0 
million) and reflects improved operating profit and favourable working capital movements. The 
value of the Group’s zinc and steel inventories reduced with the lower market prices, and Delta 
EMD’s inventories were substantially reduced as planned. 
The Group paid £7.0 million during the year to the Delta Pension Plan following completion of 
the 2009 actuarial valuation. This compares favourably with the £50.2 million paid during 2008 in 
connection with the Pension Insurance Corporation transaction that insured approximately two-
thirds of the plan’s former liabilities. 
Capital expenditure increased to £14.3 million (2008: £13.1 million) and exceeded depreciation, 
which totalled £7.9 million. The total expenditure included investments in Webforge Asia’s 
Greenfield plant in Chengdu, China and completion of Australian Galvanizing’s Greenfield plant 
in Melbourne, Australia, as well as more routine capital expenditures. 
Corporate tax paid totalled £12.6 million (2008: £10.2 million) and included £1.9 million of 
Secondary Tax on Companies paid by Delta EMD Limited in connection with the special 
dividends paid by Delta EMD Limited during the year. 
The Group’s cash balance was reduced by £11.9 million of dividends paid to minority 
shareholders (2008: £1.5 million), principally Delta EMD Limited’s £8.2 million of special 
dividends, and by £10.9 million of dividends paid to group shareholders (2008: £8.2 million). 
The Group’s net cash balance increased to £146.9 million (2008: £109.6 million) of which £122.0 
million was held in wholly owned subsidiaries. The balance was enlarged by £3.5 million during 
the year by favourable foreign exchange movements. 
Prospects for 2010 
The Group’s businesses performed well during the past year’s more difficult global economic 
conditions, and market conditions in many geographies have begun to improve.  The Australian 
economy appears to be in recovery, as do many Asian economies. Recovery of the US economy 
appears less certain although US market conditions appear to have at least settled. 
Continuing government spend on infrastructure development and improvement is expected to 
provide a foundation for the Group’s businesses in most markets whilst projects requiring private 
funding or related to the development of additional mining capacity are expected to return over 
time to the levels enjoyed before the global recession.   
Future movements in the cost of energy, steel and zinc, the Group’s key input costs, are difficult 
to anticipate. Zinc prices increased substantially during 2009 and appear to have stabilised 
recently.  Steel prices declined substantially during early 2009 and have been relatively stable 
since, whilst energy costs have remained relatively low. Inflationary cost increases nonetheless 
remain a concern, particularly as selling price competition remains vigorous, as is expected to be 
the case until market volumes improve with sustained economic growth. 
Absent significant economic growth and provided input costs remain stable, the Group’s 
businesses are expected to continue to perform in line with the second half of 2009. 
Strategic Development 
During the year the Group commissioned a new galvanizing plant in Melbourne, Australia as well 
as a new Webforge plant in Chengdu, China.  Plans for the development of new Webforge plants 
in Northern China and in the Middle East also progressed. Acquisition opportunities were 
investigated, but none were completed due to uncertain economic conditions and prospects.  
Should the offer presented by Valmont not be accepted, the Group will need to decide in the near 
future between two alternative strategies: resolving the pension plan so that the Group’s executive 
management, businesses, development and ideally ownership can be geographically aligned, or  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     11
pursuing a more diverse investment strategy across a broader geographic area so that investment 
can be accelerated and the Group’s accumulated capital deployed.   
The cost of resolving the Delta Pension Plan remains high due to market conditions surrounding 
longer term gilt returns, and whilst reasons remain to expect such conditions to change, 
movement over the past eighteen months has not been significant. Geographic alignment of the 
Group’s ownership, executive management, businesses and development would certainly provide 
a more sustainable structure and better strategic focus and success. Unfortunately the cost of 
doing so presently remains high. 
Pursuing a more diverse investment strategy across a broader geographic area in order to deploy 
the Group’s accumulated capital more rapidly would mark a significant change in the Group’s 
investment strategy, would be accompanied by different risks, and would require formulation of a 
new industrial strategy as well as additional management to execute such a strategy. The 
immediate appeal of such a strategy would be to achieve returns better than those presently 
realised on cash balances, to overcome concerns about the Group’s relatively small size, and to 
“outgrow” the pension plan. Whilst all might be possible over the longer term, more than the 
rapid deployment of the Group’s accumulated capital would be required to achieve such 
objectives.  Good investments, value creation over the longer term, and an industrial strategy that 
provided an attractive equity proposition also would be essential.   
The offer presented by Valmont provides a more certain and immediate outcome for the Group’s 
shareholders, at a value that the Group’s alternative strategies cannot necessarily improve upon in 
the foreseeable future. The offer is the result of several year’s effort to achieve such an outcome 
for the Group’s shareholders, businesses, management and employees, and I am pleased to 
recommend it to our shareholders.   
 
 
Todd Atkinson 
Chief Executive 
8 March 2010 
