 Densitron Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
02
21417.04       10/05/12        Proof 6
Group at a Glance
Densitron Technologies plc is a UK based AIM Quoted 
Company with subsidiaries located in the UK, US, Japan, 
France, Finland, Germany and Taiwan. It comprises a 
business trading in industrial electronic displays and 
investment.
Displays Business
Densitron Displays is a world leader in the 
provision of technical solutions to its customers 
specific display engineering requirements.
The core business of the Group for 40 years 
has been electronic displays. Initially the source 
of these displays was Japan but over a period 
of time the primary manufacturing base for 
this type of product has moved to Taiwan and 
mainland China.
Densitron targets small to medium sized 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) 
who will often not have in-house expertise 
in electronic displays or are not in a position 
to directly access manufacturers in the Far 
East direct. With a highly technical workforce 
Densitron is able to offer the expertise that 
may be lacking and has built up a network of 
suppliers in the Far East that are managed by 
the Group’s own logistics subsidiary based in 
Taiwan.
Investment
The Group owns a piece of land in Blackheath, 
South East London, totalling approximately 
1.25 acres that it is currently seeking planning 
consent for future development.
Who we are
Densitron is a world leading provider of display technology solutions to the 
industrial marketplace. The Group’s unique selling points are its: 
 — Geographical spread
 — Experienced work force
 — Longstanding supplier relationships
 —Technical excellence
 — Professional sales and marketing network
Operating from subsidiaries and branch offices and a network of 
distributors the Group is able to service customers throughout the world.
Why Densitron? www.densitron.com Stock Code: DSN
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
03
21417.04       10/05/12        Proof 6
OLEDs
Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) 
displays combine the benefits of organic 
light-emitting technology, giving a brighter 
and clearer, richer image than those of a 
TN LCD technology (as used on TFTs).
TFTs
This product portfolio provides customers 
with high quality panels suitable for a wide 
variety of industrial applications.
Touchscreens
Touch Screen Displays from Densitron 
transform a display into an interactive 
interface. By matching our standard TFT 
and Monochrome Graphic displays with 
the technology of touch screens we have 
developed a range of innovative integrated 
touch screen displays. 
E Paper
E-Paper Displays were developed 
for creating electronic books and 
newspapers. They can retain contents 
for years without using any power but 
can be updated quickly and easily. They 
are designed to be sunlight readable and 
with a very wide viewing angle. However, 
these characteristics provide a base for 
other applications where power availability 
is limited and periodical or random 
update is required.
Engineering design
Since the 1970s, as one of the largest 
designers and manufacturers of display 
technology, Densitron Displays has 
established the best local design facilities 
wherever its customers are located 
in the world. Utilising state of the art 
production facilities, situated globally to 
take advantage of the most appropriate 
type of manufacture, the Group is able 
to deliver solutions to its customers that 
trouble even the largest blue chip OEMs.
Our Products
Read more about our Products at www.densitron.com
Monochrome
LCD Module and LCD Glass are the 
traditional forms of display technology 
that still perform a critical role in a world 
where consumer demand for information 
display is growing rapidly. Densitron 
LCD Modules ensure that the display 
solution brings the product capabilities 
to life. Densitron actively works with 
our customers to deliver exciting and 
affordable LCD Module and LCD Display 
product display solutions. With extensive 
experience in design and manufacture 
of Standard and Custom LCD, FSTN, 
STN, TN, EL display modules the Group’s 
proactive approach to 
module development 
can provide a partial 
or even a complete 
assembly where 
appropriate. 
There are three main areas where the displays business operates:
Standard products — as this suggests 
this is a range of off the shelf displays 
provided by manufacturers. This type of 
business tends to be relatively low margin 
and requires high volume to make it 
viable.
Custom business — this is where a 
standard display is taken and customised in 
order to meet a customers’ requirements or 
value added by incorporating other features. 
This is the largest part of the business 
and due to the required engineering input 
attracts the highest margins. 
Total solutions — this is where the 
business takes a complete product from 
a customer and manufactures it in its 
entirety. At this level the margins attracted 
start to fall again due to the low cost of 
the associated plastic housing. Densitron Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
04
21417.04       10/05/12        Proof 6
Group at a Glance continued
Densitron’s global reach extends beyond the 
locations in which it has subsidiaries and branch 
offices. In addition to those offices servicing 
other locations the Group operates through an 
extensive network of distributors.
Our global operations
 — Subsidiaries located in 7 countries
 — 2 Branch offices
 — Distributors in 15 countries
 — Sales in more than 35 countries worldwide
Densitron opens new office in India
Leads will come in the form of visitors to the Group’s 
website downloading information, requests for information 
through the Group’s local distributor and direct approaches 
to the Group, a distributor will generally focus on selling 
products that are readily saleable and be less interested 
in working with a potential customer on a project type 
piece of business referring the interested party directly 
to the Group. In the last 18 months the number of leads 
received from India has dramatically increased but being 
able to qualify them (assess the validity of the lead and the 
Company behind the lead) remotely is almost impossible. 
Having already adopted a “soft” entry into the Italian 
market in the previous year that had been successful, 
the decision was taken that a similar approach should be 
adopted with India. A “soft” entry is carried out by locating 
an experienced displays professional in the market that 
is to be addressed in order to assess the potential in that 
market. It is clear that India is a large market for displays 
and this will grow dramatically over the coming years but 
the question is how much of the market is Densitron able 
to address. Clearly Densitron is not able to compete with 
large volume standard product business that is supplied 
by major Chinese and Taiwanese manufacturers, but as 
with the other markets in which it operates, there is the 
potential for substantial business with small and medium 
sized OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers). The 
purpose of the “soft” entry in a country like India is to 
assess the market for size and which type of products 
should be promoted, decide on where the business should 
be permanently located and qualify the existing leads with 
a view to generating revenues at any early stage in order to 
make the entry self-funding. 
The Indian office was opened in January 2012 following 
the relocation of one of the experienced engineers based 
in the London office. He is currently researching the market 
while following up on the leads that had previously been 
received. He has assessed a number of those leads and 
has been able to turn several of them into genuine exciting 
opportunities. What is clear even from the short time that 
he has been there is that the Indian market, although 
fraught with difficulties not least the sheer scale of the 
country, has tremendous potential. It is believed that the 
revenues from the Indian market could grow very quickly 
and if this is the case the intention would be to grow a local 
sales force in the key parts of India and eventually to set up 
a full scale local subsidiary office.
Over a number of years the Group has had a distribution presence in India.  
This presence has provided a reasonable return in terms of revenue but also  
a substantial quantity of unqualified leads. Asia
12.98%
2010: 13.23%
Europe
53.25%
2010: 53.92%
USA
33.77%
2010: 32.85%
www.densitron.com Stock Code: DSN
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
05
21417.04       10/05/12        Proof 6
Europe
USA
Far East
%  Revenue split 2011
The Group has maximised its geographical coverage by operating through a combination 
of its own subsidiaries, branch offices and distributors. The use of distributors has enabled 
the Group to develop a presence in a number of locations where market penetration would 
otherwise have been extremely difficult. Having established a distribution presence it enables 
the Group to assess the market and identify those locations that would benefit from a more 
direct presence — two locations that have benefited from this approach are Italy and India.
The Group will continue to grow geographically where it identifies locations where there is an 
established and growing market for the types of product it sells and the types of customer it 
typically sells to — in 2012 the US office is establishing a presence in Brazil.
Geographical coverage
Subsidiaries
Branch ofﬁces
Distributors
