 Densitron Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
06
21417.04       10/05/12        Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement
Despite the year being shrouded by continual negative 
economic news the Group has managed to grow its 
business further.
Introduction
I am pleased to report on the results for the year ended  
31 December 2011 which show a continuation of the positive 
progress made by the Group over the last few years. Despite 
the year being shrouded by continual negative economic news 
the Group has managed to grow its business further and 
increase the return generated by its business units.
Densitron Displays
The challenge for the Displays business in the year was to 
continue the progress that had been made during the previous 
year when a solid foundation had been laid. The business largely 
rose to the challenge by increasing both revenues and operating 
profit significantly during the year. 
Inevitably there were obstacles that needed to be negotiated 
and difficulties that needed to be managed during the year, 
none more so than the Tsunami that hit Japan in March 2011. 
I am pleased to be able to report that our office in Japan along 
with our customers and suppliers were largely unaffected by 
the Tsunami apart from a shortage of power. It did, however, 
create a temporary delay in the delivery of certain component 
parts that are supplied by Japanese manufacturers to 
display manufacturers in China and Taiwan which resulted 
in manufacturing lead times being extended. That has now 
returned to normal.
The challenge for the coming year will be to ensure that those 
parts of the business that performed well during 2011 and met 
or exceeded our expectations continue to progress during 2012. 
Those parts of the business that did not perform to expectations 
during 2011 have identified and addressed the issues that 
caused them not to meet expectations and remedial measures 
have been adopted.
A more detailed review of the results of the Displays business  
is carried out in the Chief Executive Officer’s Report on pages  
8 to 10.
Land at Blackheath
Blackheath is the 1.25 acre piece of land that the Group owns in 
Blackheath, South East London.
I reported in my statement last year that our planning application 
for the land had been rejected by the Local Council. Following 
the rejection we reviewed the options we had with the land 
and consulted leading Counsel. We consequently took the 
decision not to appeal against the ruling of the local Council 
and to pursue alternative options. We are now working on 
the reclassification of the site through the Local Development 
Framework and exploring existing use rights on the site. We will 
keep shareholders informed when there is further information.
In 2010 we engaged a firm of surveyors to carry out a 
professional valuation of the land and they confirmed a valuation 
of £500,000 which was recognised in the 2010 accounts. We 
have not undertaken a formal revaluation of the land in 2011 but 
the Board considers the value to be at least at this level. 
Shareholders
The Directors remain committed to delivering a return to the 
Company’s Shareholders by way of both capital growth and 
distribution.
Capital Growth – In order to grow the value of the Company 
it is vital that investors are informed about the Company’s 
businesses. To that end, the Company’s Nomad has provided 
research on the Group during the year and the Executive 
Directors have held numerous meetings with current and 
potential investors explaining the results of the Group and its 
future strategy. The share price at the beginning of 2011 was 
14.75p and during the year the Company returned cash to its 
Shareholders by way of capital reduction and dividends totalling 
5.4p per share. At the close of the year the share price was 
11.00p. Taking into account the return of cash and dividends, 
the overall return from a holding in the shares during the year 
has been 1.65p per share or 11.19%. 
Capital reduction – During the year the Company returned 4p 
per share to its Shareholders by way of a capital reduction and a 
further 1p per share by way of dividend. This followed the sale of 
the Group’s investment in Evervision Electronics Co. Ltd during 
2010. The Board considered that this was the most appropriate 
use of the disposal proceeds as they were not required within 
the business to fund the Group’s primary strategy of organic 
growth.
