 22418.04      21 May 2013 1:58 PM    PROOF 7
2
Densitron Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st December 2012
Group at a Glance
Densitron Technologies plc is a UK-based AIM Quoted Company whose primary business is the sale of electronic displays 
into the industrial marketplace. It operates through subsidiaries located in the UK, US, Japan, France, Finland, Germany and 
Taiwan along with offices in India, Italy and the Netherlands and a global network of distributors.
Our Areas of Operation
There are three main parts to the displays business operations:
Standard products
As this suggests this is a range of 
off-the-shelf displays provided by 
manufacturers. This type of business 
tends to be relatively low margin 
and requires high volume to make it 
viable and due to the nature of the 
products being standard, business is 
won on price meaning that customer 
retention is difficult. Standard 
products represent approximately 
20% of the Group’s business.
Custom business
This is where a standard display is 
taken and customised in order to 
meet a customers’ requirements. 
Order volumes tend to be lower 
than for standard products but 
margins achieved are higher due to 
the technical input by the Group’s 
engineers. Once the Group has 
designed a display to meet a 
customer’s requirements it is likely 
that the customer will continue to 
buy the display from the Group for 
the lifespan of its product. Custom 
business represents the largest part 
of the Group’s revenues making up 
approximately 60% of the total  
Group revenues.
Total solutions
This is where the business takes a 
complete product from a customer 
and manufactures it in its entirety. 
At this level the margins attracted 
start to fall again due to the low cost 
of the associated plastic housing. 
However, this type of business 
remains attractive as it generally 
means that a customer will be 
retained for the life of its product 
resulting in repeat business. Total 
solutions represent approximately 
20% of the Group’s revenues.
Product: Thin-Film Transistor
Description: Liquid crystal display that uses thin-film transistor 
technology to improve visual quality.
Key Uses: Computer monitors, mobile phones, handheld 
devices, metering equipment, navigational systems.
TFTs
Product: Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED)
Description: Displays that combine the benefits of organic light-
emitting technology, giving a brighter and clearer, richer image with 
those of an active matrix technology (as used on TFTs).
Key Uses: Mobile phones, personal digital assistants, portable 
handheld devices, digital cameras, household goods, dynamic 
information displays.
OLEDs
Densitron AR2012.indd   2 21/05/2013   14:03:10 22418.04      21 May 2013 1:58 PM    PROOF 7
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
3
www.densitron.com
Stock Code: DSN
Product: E-Paper or E-Ink Displays
Description: Low power consuming displays that can retain an 
image without power. Power is only consumed when the display 
content is changed. The displays are designed to be sunlight 
readable with a very wide viewing angle.
Key Uses: Shelf labelling, security tags, advertising boards, direction 
signs, energy meters, notice boards, hospital patient cards.
E Paper
Product: Touchscreen Displays
Description: Touchscreen displays transform a standard TFT or 
monochrome graphic display into an interactive device.
Key Uses: Medical instrumentation, industrial and commercial 
interfaces, gaming equipment, vandal proof products.
Touchscreens
Since the 1970s, as one of the largest designers and 
manufacturers of display technology, Densitron Displays 
has established the best local design facilities wherever its 
customers are located in the world. Utilising state of the art 
production facilities, situated globally to take advantage of the 
most appropriate type of manufacture, the Group is able to 
deliver solutions to its customers that trouble even the largest 
blue chip OEMs.
Engineering Design
Monochrome
Product: LCD Module and LCD Glass
Description: Traditional forms of display technology that still perform a 
critical role in a world where consumer demand for information display 
is growing rapidly. Densitron LCD Modules ensure that the display 
solution brings the product capabilities to life.
Key Uses: Rack mounted servers, instrumentation, portable 
monitoring and measuring devices, multilingual instrumentation, 
medical monitoring equipment.
Densitron AR2012.indd   3 21/05/2013   14:03:14 22418.04      21 May 2013 1:58 PM    PROOF 7
4
Densitron Technologies plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st December 2012
Group at a Glance continued
Case Study
Optical Bonding
The rapid growth in consumer electronics has been 
particularly driven by the mobile phone and tablet markets. 
Each manufacturer is striving to produce a device that 
displays its information perfectly in all environments. A  
device can be made up of several different layers such as  
a display, touchscreen and cover lens and the gap that arises 
in between each of these layers can cause a reduction in the 
quality of the visual experience. The way in which this  
problem is solved is by bonding the layers together which 
prevents, for example, light reflection when a device is  
viewed in direct sunlight.
Whilst consumer electronics is not an area that the Group 
addresses, the quality of the displays in these devices has 
led to a demand in the markets that the Group does address 
and this demand is currently not being well served. The 
Group targets Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) 
whose particular order requirements are generally for small 
and medium sized quantities of displays. Since the major 
manufacturers in Taiwan and China that provide bonding 
services typically concentrate on providing this service to the 
consumer markets, the Group identified an opportunity to 
provide a service to its customers that was currently either 
closed to them or difficult and expensive to achieve.
The Group has developed a process called Solisbond ® 
which offers optically bonded engineering solutions to its 
customers. The process entails using gel to bond the layers 
of a display together. This is undertaken in a vacuum chamber 
located in a clean room which has been set up in Taipei, 
Taiwan. Unlike the glue and curing process used in other 
solutions Solisbond ® allows for rework in the event of any 
issues during the process which reduces the level of yield 
issues. The advantages of the process are:
•	 Improved Sunlight Readability — It decreases reflection on 
the display glass from external light sources which improves 
the contrast ratio.
•	 Shock-resistant  — The adhesive is soft and not brittle.
•	 Reworkable process — The advantage here is that the 
process does not suffer from yield problems.
•	 Improved Luminance — The process reduces light loss from 
displays which use backlights which increases the brightness 
of the display by about 8%.
•	 Straightforward process — Other processes use glue and a 
curing process, this is not required using Solisbond ®.
•	 Green process and material
•	 Cost-effective — The solution is more affordable than the 
glue and curing process.
It is expected that the demand for this type of process will 
be considerable and Solisbond ® will be an extremely useful 
addition to the Group’s portfolio of products and services. Not 
only does it enable the business to offer an additional service to 
its existing customers aiding customer retention but it will also 
enable it to promote the service as an adjunct to the displays 
it promotes to potential customers. It will also help to generate 
business in Taiwan and China where there has been interest 
from display manufacturers that are unable to offer this service. 
The facility in Taiwan opened in December 2012 and there is 
already considerable interest in the process and the use of the 
facility and we would expect to see it operating to a significant 
level by the second half of 2013.
A display showing the benefits of optical bonding
Optical bonding process
Densitron AR2012.indd   4 21/05/2013   14:03:17 22418.04      21 May 2013 1:58 PM    PROOF 7
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
5
www.densitron.com
Stock Code: DSN
Case Study
Ripdraw™ Smart TFT Product Line
The primary customer for the Group is an Original Equipment 
Manufacturer that has a small to medium sized requirement 
for electronic displays. In its simplest form the process for a 
customer to bring a product to market is:
•	 Design and development of the product itself – this is 
generally where a customer’s expertise lies.
•	 Selection of a display to be incorporated into the product – 
this is where the Group has its expertise and will work with 
the customer on the most appropriate solution.
•	 Development of software to display the information on the 
product – this is often outsourced to an expensive software 
design house.
In the past five years it has been increasingly difficult to 
guarantee customers’ longevity of supply of a particular 
display. Since the Group is dependent on third party 
manufacturers for its displays it cannot guarantee that a 
manufacturer will not withdraw a particular display from the 
market or change the components making up a display. 
This has the potential to alter the way in which information is 
presented on a display which can have an adverse impact 
on a customer’s product. The consequence of this is that a 
customer cannot guarantee that the display that was chosen 
to be incorporated into their product will be available in the 
medium to long term.
To overcome this problem the Group has developed the 
Ripdraw™ TFT. This solution works with all electrical and 
coding requirements that glass manufacturers and integrated 
circuit manufacturers may have now or may develop in the 
future meaning that the display will be available for the life of a 
customers’ product.
A second issue for customers is the ability to create the 
visual images to be displayed by their product. Often this is 
outsourced to software design houses which can not only 
be extremely expensive but also create a delay in getting 
a finished product to market. Over the past 18 months 
the Group has developed a straightforward solution that 
enables customers to design the way in which they present 
information on the display in their product. Using a cloud-
based system the Group has developed in excess of 8,000 
images which are simply incorporated using a seven level 
intuitive drawing tool. This means that a customer can take its 
own idea and quickly and easily incorporate it into its finished 
product. By using seven layers it gives the flexibility to build up 
a final design in stages with the ability to change each different 
element through the design process until the desired solution 
has been achieved.
The combination of these two solutions means that the Group 
has positioned itself not only to provide more to its customers 
than its competitors but also to introduce more value added 
products which will enhance the Group’s competitive edge. 
It has guaranteed that the display that is selected for the 
finished product will be available for the lifetime of the product 
eliminating the risk of a possible expensive redesign, and 
enabled the customer to eliminate the requirement to employ 
an expensive software house to design the imagery that will 
be displayed on the product. It also has the advantage that 
taking away this layer of the process will reduce the time it 
takes for a customer to get its product to market.
Both Optical Bonding and Ripdraw™ demonstrate the 
Group’s commitment to the development of the business and 
what can be achieved by organic growth. Through market 
knowledge the Group has been able to identify areas where 
its customers will benefit from additional services provided by 
the Group, and through technical knowhow the Group has 
been able to deliver these services to the market. The Group 
will continue the process of developing products and services 
that will add value to the products and services it provides 
to further enhance its position in the markets in which it 
operates.
  Read more at: www.densitron.com
Densitron AR2012.indd   5 21/05/2013   14:03:17
