 18 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
I 2 3 4
Profits were maintained, despite raw material  
cost increases and challenging conditions in some 
markets. As a result of these activities, Devro is 
building a sound base for growth in the future.
Market overview and Devro’s strategy
During 2013, the global market for edible collagen 
casings grew by 7%, and the total value of the 
market worldwide is now estimated to be 
approximately £650 million. 
In emerging markets, the total volume of casings 
sold increased by 10%, most markedly in China, 
South East Asia and Latin America. This occurred 
as the result of a growing urban population, with 
higher disposable incomes, consuming greater 
quantities of protein per person.
In many developed markets, the demand for edible 
collagen casings was flat or declining for a variety 
of reasons. In the USA, total volumes of sausage 
sold increased by 2%. In the UK, although total 
sales value increased, actual volumes of sausage 
sold declined 5% over the two year period 2012-
2013, attributable to the rise of pork prices to 
all-time high levels. Demand in Western Europe  
was subdued, as a result of the general economic 
climate adversely affecting consumer spending 
patterns, particularly during the first half of the 
year. The market in Japan improved in 2013, but 
Australia saw a decline in volumes of processed 
sausage consumed and therefore a lower demand 
for collagen casings.
Devro’s strategy is to ensure that the business  
is well-positioned to supply growing demand in 
emerging markets, to continue to displace gut  
with more efficient casings in developed markets, 
and to lead the category worldwide with product 
innovations such as Select casings and co-extrusion 
gel. This strategy will ensure that Devro continues 
to grow long-term sales.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Peter Page
2013 WAS A YEAR OF CONSIDERABLE 
ACHIEVEMENTS, WITH COMPLETION 
OF THE MAJOR INVESTMENT PROJECT 
IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC, THE INITIA TION 
OF A SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT 
IN THE USA AND COMPREHENSIVE 
PREPARA TION FOR EST ABLISHING  
A LOCAL MANUFACTURING PLANT  
TO SERVICE THE RAPIDL Y GROWING 
CHINESE MARKET. 19 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Devro sales in 2013
Overall sales volumes were marginally down,  
with emerging markets growing 6%, offset  
by developed markets, which reduced by 5%.
Emerging markets now account for 41% of total 
sales, up from 38% in 2012. Volumes increased 
most significantly in Latin America (volume +21%; 
local currency value +22%), South East Asia 
(volume +16%; local currency value +25%) and 
China, which grew rapidly from a low base. In all 
these markets, strong support for local distributors 
and greater availability of product in the second 
half of the year enabled further growth.
Sales volumes in Eastern Europe, Russia and 
Ukraine fell by 9% reflecting subdued demand 
compared to previous years, higher levels  
of competitor activity and, in some markets,  
a reaction to Devro’s price increases at the  
start of the year. 
Developed markets now account for 59% of total 
sales. Whilst overall sales were 5% down on 2012, 
there was an impressive increase in sales in 
Germany, with both volume and revenue in local 
currency up 30%. This growth came from activities 
to promote Select casing for wiener sausage 
applications, a new Bratwurst casing, and growing 
use of the standard FINE product range. Germany 
is a key market for developing Devro’s sales.
Sales volumes in Japan increased 6% as the 
demand for Select and Devro’s regular casings 
remained strong. Availability of product increased 
with the completion of capacity upgrade projects 
at Devro’s plant in Australia at the end of 2012.
UK and Australia/New Zealand sales volumes  
both reduced, by 6% and 9% respectively, in  
part reflecting lower market demand, but also  
due to significant cost pressures on customers.  
Sales volumes in USA and Canada were down 6%, 
where manufacturing challenges restricted 
capacity available for sale.
One example of developing innovative products  
is our co-extrusion gel business which expanded 
during the year, principally attributable to a key 
customer bringing on additional capacity in the 
Americas as they transfer from cellulose 
applications to collagen co-extrusion.
Overall, in constant currency, the price per unit  
of edible collagen sold increased by 2%. In some 
markets prices were raised to recover input costs, 
in others they were held constant in order to retain 
volumes, particularly in instances such as Japan 
where exchange rates changed significantly. The 
overall average price was also affected by changes 
in market, product and customer mix. 
Manufacturing in 2013
The highlight of 2013 was the completion, on 
budget and on time, of a three-year, £25 million 
investment project at our plant in Jilemnice in the 
Czech Republic. This added 9% to the group’s  
total manufacturing capacity and will lead to 
further unit cost reductions at this site, which has 
now benefitted from over £100 million of capital 
expenditure in the past decade. 
The factory in Bathurst, Australia manufactured 
higher volumes than the prior year following  
a partial upgrade during late 2012, enabling 
increased supplies to key markets in Asia.
Both factories in Glasgow, Scotland ran well, 
benefitting from recent capital investment  
projects and an ongoing programme of  
continuous improvement which is being 
implemented at all plants.
The plant at Sandy Run, South Carolina, USA,  
which is 35 years old and uses a markedly different 
technology to our other factories, tends to 
experience more operational difficulties. This  
was particularly evident in the first half of the year 
and total group operating profit for the year was 
adversely impacted by an estimated £2 million.  
The £40 million investment project is based on  
the well-proven and dependable manufacturing 
technology used at our plants in Europe, and is 
expected to give cost savings of c.£8 million per 
annum, which will start to come through from  
mid 2016. 20 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
I 2 3 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
(continued)
Since the announcement in November 2013, this 
project has progressed well. Permits have been 
approved, contracts for the civil work have been 
signed and we expect to break ground this month. 
A global project team, including colleagues from 
the USA, UK and Czech Republic, has been 
established to harness the expertise and 
knowledge that have been built over many  
years of successful investment projects.
As in 2012, the biggest challenge to manufacturing 
operations was the rise in hide costs, with a total 
increase of £4 million during the year. This is due to 
an increase in the overall global demand for food 
grade collagen from trusted sources of cattle hides.
Group activities
Safety is a priority and the overall group 
performance reflected further progress in 2013, 
with the number of days lost due to injury at work 
being the lowest recorded since 2000. Devro 
Scotland had a particularly commendable year 
where, with over 500 employees, there were no 
lost working day injuries nor working days lost due 
to an incident in previous years, and the rate of 
recordable incidents per million hours worked was 
the lowest ever seen at Devro.
The successful management of a five-year product 
development pipeline is the key to supporting 
future growth of the group. A global Research & 
Development team has been brought together 
from existing resources during 2013 to ensure that 
the whole group benefits from product innovations 
and that all development resources are used to 
best effect. 
One new product to emerge from this is Fresh 
Select, which will be introduced to customers in the 
UK in 2014. Fresh Select is based on our successful 
Select technology, achieving high levels of clarity 
and translucency in its appearance, attributes that 
DEVELOPED MARKETS
INVESTMENT
IN THE USA
Background
The USA & Canada market  
for all sausage casings is 
estimated to be in excess  
of £80 million in value. Edible 
collagen casings are used  
for three types of sausage: 
processed, snack stick and  
dinner sausage. Skinless hot  
dogs manufactured using 
cellulose remain a very large  
part of the category. Branded 
products lead the market.
Currently Devro has a 35% share 
of the market, employing over 
400 people and supplying 398 
customers in North America, 
including the major brands. 
Devro’s plant at Sandy Run, 
South Carolina is now 35 years 
old and uses a markedly different 
technology to our other factories. 
As a result it tends to experience 
more operational difficulties, 
which was particularly evident  
in the first half of 2013. 21 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
customers normally associate with gut. These are 
combined with high elasticity and wall strength, 
whilst having a thin wall which gives a light bite.
Following a programme launched in 2012 to establish 
a single global Devro marque, the benefits of the 
strong brand were evident at the triennial IFFA show, 
the meat industry’s biggest international gathering, 
which was held in 2013 at Frankfurt Messe. 
People
The commitment and dedication of over 2,000 
colleagues at Devro is critical to the group’s 
success. Eleven people completed the Open 
University Business School Certificate in 
Management on a course specifically tailored to 
Devro’s needs. The Devro Academy consolidated 
the group’s proprietary knowledge in a programme 
facilitated by Strathclyde University. Five people 
completed their apprenticeships in 2013. 
Worldwide 20 people are on accredited 
apprenticeship and technical skills development 
programmes. 
At the end of 2013, Graeme Walford joined the 
Executive Board, principally to take responsibility 
for the group’s major capital investment projects. 
He brings over 30 years’ experience of engineering 
and project management in global businesses.
During 2012 and 2013 a strong team covering sales, 
finance and human resources has been recruited  
in China, to lead the development of Devro’s 
presence there.
Peter Page
Chief Executive
The investment 
opportunity
In 2014 a new manufacturing 
hall will be constructed 
adjacent to the existing 
facility and new lines will be 
commissioned during 2015, 
based on the well-proven and 
dependable manufacturing 
technology used at our plants 
in Europe. This £40 million 
investment will improve 
manufacturing efficiency  
and is expected to give cost 
savings of c.£8 million per 
annum, which will start to 
come through from mid 2016. 
Over the next five years, 
Devro plans to increase its 
share of the North American 
market through a combination 
of differentiated products and 
strong customer partnerships. 
There will be scope to expand 
the new plant if justified by 
market demand.
Site of new plant, 
February 2014 22 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
I 2 3 4
‘02
‘03
‘04
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
(continued)
Background
China’s economy has grown strongly over the past 
decade, with increasing demand for many types  
of protein: beef, dairy, poultry, fish and pork. As 
urbanisation has progressed and disposable incomes 
have increased, the per capita consumption of sausage  
has grown significantly and it is estimated that half  
of the global demand for edible collagen casings  
will be in China from 2015. This growth in protein 
consumption has led to the development of many  
major food manufacturing businesses in China.
Devro has been active in China since the early 1990s, 
selling imported product through a Hong Kong sales 
office. In 2011 a Devro sales company was established  
in Beijing, with a local team that has developed strong 
customer relationships and increased sales in China. In 
December 2013, Devro registered a new manufacturing 
company in China and land has now been secured in an 
industrial development park, in Nantong, near Shanghai, 
for the construction of a new collagen casings plant.
The investment opportunity
The collagen casings market in China is estimated to have  
a value in excess of £200 million and has grown by more 
than 40% per annum on average since 2002. Following 
substantial market research and ongoing discussions with 
current and potential customers, it is clear that there are 
attractive opportunities for Devro to gain a greater share  
of this growth. We expect to achieve this through sales  
of differentiated casings to food manufacturers, as the 
various market categories, including premium products,  
are developed. 
We now have plans to construct a manufacturing plant in 
China in 2014 and expect lines to be commissioned during 
2015 for production in 2016. The priorities will be to ensure 
that local raw materials can be successfully converted into 
quality casings, and to establish a local management team 
capable of expanding the business in the future.
This initial investment provides the necessary infrastructure 
for the future and is expected to provide an internal rate  
of return of 13% as the business attains sufficient scale to 
operate efficiently, and the ability to supply larger volumes 
enables us to develop valuable customer partnerships.  
We would expect substantial growth in earnings from  
this market in the long term.
Additional debt funding will be sought in the first half  
of 2014 to fund this investment in China.
EMERGING MARKETS
INVESTMENT
IN CHINA
Edible collagen demand in China
Growth of more than 40% pa on average since 2002
