 16 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
I 2 3 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Steve Hannam
DURING THE YEAR, WE MADE MAJOR 
NEW INVESTMENT DECISIONS WHICH 
WILL FURTHER DEVELOP OUR GLOBAL 
MANUFACTURING FOOTPRINT.
Devro made considerable progress in 2013, despite 
a more difficult trading background, as we completed 
the upgrade at our world-class facility in the Czech 
Republic and established the programme of 
investment at our plant in the USA. In addition,  
we have now announced plans to invest £50 million 
to build a manufacturing plant in China. These key 
investments will ensure Devro is in a strong position 
to benefit from the significant opportunities in the 
growing global casings market, and the increase in 
the dividend reflects the Board’s confidence in the 
group’s strategy and its future prospects.
Financial highlights
Profits were maintained despite, as previously 
announced, a number of challenges during the first 
half of 2013, including slow demand in some of our 
key markets, manufacturing issues in the USA and  
a sharp rise in raw material costs. However, in the 
last six months of the year Devro achieved an uplift 
in earnings. Although sales were slightly behind 
prior year levels, we benefitted from price increases 
introduced earlier in the year and also from some 
stability returning to the market for hides, our main 
raw material. Production volumes increased by a 
further 11% compared to 2012, generating improved 
profitability whilst enabling us to build inventories 
ahead of the current year.
Earnings per share for the year has shown growth 
over the past six years, with an increased proportion 
of group profits now coming from the Czech Republic, 
where we benefit from a relatively low tax rate.
Strategic outlook
During the year, we concluded a review of our 
five-year plan and made major new investment 
decisions which will further develop our global 
manufacturing footprint. This will better position 
the business for continued growth for the future.
Over the past three years Devro has invested  
£70 million in upgrading technology and creating 
20% additional capacity. We are now moving into  
a new phase of targeted strategic investments  
to reduce our manufacturing cost per unit and  
to extend our reach into emerging markets.
In November 2013 we announced a £40 million 
investment at our plant in South Carolina, USA,  
in order to reduce manufacturing costs from 2016, 
with full benefits of c. £8 million per annum from 
2017. The project is progressing well with the 
relevant permits now approved, contracts for  
the civil work signed and plans to break ground  
this month. 17 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
On 4 March 2014 we announced that we have 
approved plans to establish a manufacturing plant 
in China, which is now the world’s biggest collagen 
casing market. We will build a new facility in Nantong, 
near Shanghai, with work planned to start in the 
first half of 2014. This investment of £50 million 
over two years will see commissioning during  
2015, with space to expand in line with future 
market demand.
These two projects represent an unprecedented 
level of investment for Devro and demonstrate both 
the Board’s confidence in the opportunities before 
us, and the company’s ability to address them. 
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.10p  
per share (2012: 5.85p) bringing the total for the 
year to 8.8p per share (2012: 8.5p), an increase of 
4%. Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in April, the dividend will 
be paid on 16 May 2014 to those on the register  
on 28 March 2014. 
Employees
Our employees are key to Devro’s success and,  
on behalf of the whole Board, I pay tribute to them 
and thank them for their efforts across our global 
business. The challenges of 2013, and the changes 
across the group, required considerable 
commitment from our people. 
I believe that Devro has a highly skilled, motivated 
workforce ambitious for future success. To ensure 
we use this talent pool and have the right resources 
in place as the company grows, we are continuing 
our programme of employee development.
Board
In July 2013, we strengthened the Board further 
with the appointment of Gerard Hoetmer as a 
Non-Executive Director. A Dutch national, Gerard 
brings a wealth of experience of the international 
food sector.
Our Senior Independent Director, Paul Neep,  
was appointed in 2005 and therefore has served  
as a director for nine years. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code requires that Paul’s independence 
is confirmed by the rest of the Board, if he is to 
continue as an Independent Director. This they 
have done and we are delighted that Paul will 
continue his valuable service to the group.
At the AGM in April I shall have completed five 
years as Chairman of Devro plc. During this period 
we have seen a recovery in the business, an 
upgrading and expansion of manufacturing, the 
launch of new products, the strengthening of the 
Board and a further increase in the professionalism 
of the company. Our recently completed five-year 
plan has established the foundations on which we 
will build an exciting future for Devro. Personal 
circumstances dictate that this is an appropriate 
time for me to stand down as Chairman and  
I shall relinquish the post as soon as a suitable 
replacement can be appointed. Paul Neep, as 
Senior Independent Director, is leading the search 
process and an announcement will be made once 
the new Chairman has been appointed. 
Outlook
We expect growth in total sales in 2014, particularly 
in Germany, China, Japan and parts of Latin 
America. The outlook for other important markets, 
such as the UK, Russia, USA and Australasia, is less 
clear. In order to limit any further increase in the 
inventory levels that had been increased during 
2013 in anticipation of stronger demand in 2014, 
Devro will lower production volumes during the 
year to balance short-term supply and demand. 
Currency is also likely to have a negative impact  
on results in 2014 with the strengthening of sterling 
and other currency changes. If the 2013 operating 
profits had been translated at current exchange 
rates they would have been approximately  
£5 million lower.
Looking further forward the Board remains confident 
in the opportunity for supplying a dynamic and 
growing global market for edible casings. Our 
major capital investment programme involves 
installing high-technology equipment in the USA  
to reduce manufacturing costs and building new 
capacity in China to supply a significant part of  
the global market. These projects will progress  
our plan to transform Devro’s global manufacturing 
footprint and, together with our investment in 
research & development and people, will position 
us well to compete in the market and create 
long-term growth.
 
Steve Hannam
Chairman
