 02 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Overview
Dialight at a glance
Revolutionary technology
At the forefront of a lighting revolution, Dialight is continually 
raising the bar with best-in-class, innovative products to serve 
its customer base worldwide. As LEDs become brighter , Dialight 
looks at ways to re-engineer products to improve not only their 
efficiency, but the value proposition for customers as well.
Dialight’s highly skilled engineering team is comprised of technical 
experts around the world who hold multiple PhD and Master’s 
degrees in science and engineering.
Through the development of new and improved products that keep 
it one step ahead of the competition, Dialight’s intellectual property 
remains of real importance to the Group’s continued competitive edge. 
In 2010 alone, 29 new patents have been filed; 16 have been granted 
with more pending.
LED strobe
LED High Bay
Key products include:
Vigilant™ Series LED Dual Red/White Beacon
Dialight’s latest Vigilant Series LED Dual Beacon 
is 75% smaller, 10 lbs lighter and up to 95% 
more energy-efficient than traditional xenon 
based dual beacons. Now in its fourth generation, 
the LED Dual Beacon continues to shine as the 
only currently qualified product in its class in 
the US.
Safesite
®
 LED Wallpack
With its low profile, rugged design ensuring 
long life, and high reliability, the Wallpack 
is ideally suited for oil platforms, explosive 
environments, mills, chemical plants and 
other hazardous applications.
 
DuroSite™ Series LED High Bay
Introduced in late 2009, the DuroSite LED 
High Bay has been re-engineered to further 
increase light output by 50%, competing 
directly with light sources up to 450W, while 
only consuming 150W. Setting an industry 
benchmark with over 14,000 units sold to 
date, many global Fortune 500 companies 
have installed these units realising instant 
energy and maintenance cost savings.
LED Wallpack Overview 
Business review  .
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
03 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
View our complete product range
www.dialight.com
Low Beam
LED Linear Fixture
90mm Low Beam Headlamp 
A true advance in LED technology for transit 
buses in the US, Dialight has introduced the 
9W LED Headlamp to replace 50W halogen 
bulbs, which typically require replacement 
twice a year. The Headlamp is backed by 
a seven year warranty which promises to 
deliver dramatic cuts in maintenance costs 
for municipalities and commercial operators.
As part of a corporate sustainability initiative, Rockline 
Industries Inc. replaced 140 inefficient 400W metal 
halide fittings with 140 Dialight 150W DuroSite LED 
High Bays, while maintaining the same levels of lighting in 
their manufacturing facility. Not only has the conversion 
reduced energy consumption and operating costs, 
but it has positioned the company to receive a $50,000 
rebate incentive from its local utility company, as part 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
Rockline Industries
ExCeL London is a world-class events venue, located 
in the commercial heart of the UK. After trialing just 
eight samples of Dialight’s LED High Bay, ExCeL decided 
to re-fit 250 inefficient 450W high-pressure sodium 
lamps with the same number of Dialight’s product in a 
number of applications around the site including outdoor 
walkway canopies, perimeter lighting and the impressive 
half-mile long and highly used public space corridor. 
70% energy savings have been reported and ExCeL 
London is now considering other areas to convert to 
LED lighting.
ExCeL Centre
SafeSite
®
 LED Linear Fixture
The first complete LED lighting fixture on 
the market which carries an explosion proof 
rating, the SafeSite Linear, was designed to 
replace linear fluorescents, whilst reducing 
energy consumption by 50%.
 
Read more
www.dialight.com/news/details/rockline_case_study
Read more
www.dialight.com/news/details/ExCeL_centre_case_study 04 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Farmingdale, NJ
Roxboro, NC
York, UK
Newmarket, UK
Wang, Germany
Copenhagen, Denmark
Perth, Australia 
Ensenada, Mexico
Singapore 
Global customer focus
Dialight identifies and pursues markets with strong value 
prospects. As new LED applications evolve, it develops 
products targeting the needs of its ever expanding global 
customer base.
Whilst there are many areas where LEDs can be used,  
Dialight has been careful to select those markets  
which fit its strategy and allow defensible  
and profitable growth.
Dialight continues to expand its 
presence worldwide.
Serving the North and Central American markets, 
Dialight operates out of Farmingdale, New Jersey 
with manufacturing facilities in Ensenada, Mexico 
and Roxboro, North Carolina.
2010 saw the installation of a strategic sales channel including a 
new Director of Sales, strategically placed regional sales managers 
and an outside sales force that totals more than 200 people. 
The creation of a new position of President in our Mexico facility 
will assist the Group in leading commercial activities in this region.
Markets in focus:
With facilities in the UK, Germany and Denmark 
(following the Group’s acquisition of BTI) and a sales 
office in Dubai, Dialight is well placed to service the 
growth in its European markets.
Strengthening of the management team in this region as 
well as strategic additions to the existing sales force will 
improve capabilities in 2011 and beyond.
MedSafe
Houston, Texas, US
Distribution centre
When business demanded a move to a more spacious warehouse 
and distribution facility, MedSafe insisted on Dialight’s high-efficiency, 
long-life DuroSite LED High Bay and area lighting fixtures to not only 
deliver superb energy savings and crisp, clear white light, but also 
instant restrike to eliminate downtime in the wake of a power outage. 
With 141 DuroSite LED High Bay interior fixtures and 18 exterior 
area lights in place at this facility, MedSafe can now light four times 
the square footage at the same cost as its previous building.
The Americas Europe/Middle East
Read more 
www.dialight.com/news/details/medsafe_case_study
Overview
Dialight at a glance continued
£68.2 million 
Revenue
£22.2 million 
Revenue Overview 
Business review  .
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
05 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Farmingdale, NJ
Roxboro, NC
York, UK
Newmarket, UK
Wang, Germany
Copenhagen, Denmark
Perth, Australia 
Ensenada, Mexico
Singapore 
Farmingdale, NJ
Roxboro, NC
York, UK
Newmarket, UK
Wang, Germany
Copenhagen, Denmark
Perth, Australia 
Ensenada, Mexico
Singapore 
Aisin AW
Anjo City, Japan
Manufacturing facility
Aisin, the world’s number one manufacturer of automatic 
transmissions, installed 72 of Dialight 150W DuroSite LED High Bays 
to replace traditional 400W mercury vapour fittings in a one-for-one 
swap. The light fixture replacement represents Aisin’s ambitious 
environmental program in which the company pledges to respect 
the environment in all its business activities and in every product 
it develops.
Markets in focus:
Further to the Group’s acquisition of 75% of its 
Australian distributor Lightday Investments Pty Ltd 
(now trading as Dialight ILS) (“ILS”) at the beginning of 
2011, the Group now has sales offices in both Singapore 
and Australia. This serves to demonstrate Dialight’s 
commitment to growth in the Asia/Pacific region.
March Foods Ltd
Cambridgeshire, UK
Food packaging centre
To improve light quality and save on energy and maintenance, 
March Foods Ltd replaced a total of 84 outdated 450W high-pressure 
sodium lamps, with an equivalent number of Dialight LED High Bays. 
As a British Small and Medium Enterprise (“SME”), March Foods was 
able to have its LED installation funded by a four-year interest-free 
loan of £38,000 from the Carbon Trust. The Carbon Trust offer 
a £1,000 loan for every 2.5 tonnes of CO2 saved, so capital 
expenditure is effectively funded by the energy savings.
Asia/Pacific
Read more 
www.dialight.com/news/details/march_foods_case_study
Key:
 Sales/Administration offices
 Manufacturing facilities
£8.8 million 
Revenue 06 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Enabling sustainable practices
Going green can be good for you and your business
Dialight’s advances in ultra-bright LED obstruction 
lighting solutions continue to improve with the 
introduction of its newly expanded Vigilant Series 
product line. Energy efficiency combined with 
unparalleled maintenance and environmental 
benefits make these units the first choice for 
cell tower and other obstruction applications.
Ever vigilant lighting technology 
Dialight’s SMART meter switches are used by utility 
companies to remotely manage the electrical supply 
of residential, commercial and industrial customers 
from a centrally monitored control system, thereby 
providing energy managers with new and improved 
levels of automation, control, productivity and 
operational savings.
SMART grid is coming to your neighbourhood
Dialight’s environmentally friendly LED lighting solutions 
are helping organisations worldwide reduce their carbon 
footprint while achieving increases in energy efficiency, 
productivity and profit.
As incandescent lighting bans take hold and Dialight’s LED 
installations multiply, the planet that we all share benefits 
from the dramatic reduction in CO
2
 emissions.
Adoption of Dialight’s DuroSite LED High Bay fixture continues to exceed 
expectations as industrial markets experience unparalleled levels of light 
output and reduction in energy consumption and operating cost.
Overview
Dialight at a glance continued 07 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview 
Business review .
Governance .
Financial statements .
Shareholder information  .
Wind Turbine Lighting
 
Dialight’s patented optical design creates 
the sharpest cut-off beam in the industry, 
achieving near-zero light pollution at ground 
level while beaming 2,000 candelas to aircraft 
pilots. It consumes 98% less energy than the 
incandescent light it normally replaces.
Dialight’s Vigilant Series LED Beacon is 75% smaller , 
75% lighter and 98% more efficient than traditional 
incandescent beacons, making it the smallest, most 
efficient beacon in the world.
20W LED vs. 1400W Incandescent Beacon 
Enabling sustainable practices
Going green can be good for you and your business
