 Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 11
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
Whilst global economic conditions showed modest 
recovery, our Signals/Illumination business saw 
full year revenues increase by 31.7% on the prior 
year, with Lighting revenues doubling versus 
2009 as well as doubling half-on-half within 2010. 
Both Obstruction Lighting and European Traffic 
demonstrated very strong growth also. Our strategy 
in this segment of focusing on defensible niche 
markets is proving to be effective.
Revenues in the LED Indication Components segment 
had been affected by the global economic downturn 
in the early part of 2009. This market saw recovery 
in 2010 although inventory build in the first half of 
this year was reversed in the second with revenues 
overall well ahead of 2009. 
Sales of Electromagnetic Components grew single 
digit on 2009 but significantly we secured a new 
customer for Electromagnetic Disconnect devices 
in the form of a major US meter manufacturer. 
Of the more than £20 million of growth in 2010, 
65% came from the Signals/Illumination segment. 
As the efficiencies and cost of LED devices continue 
to improve, Dialight’s product offerings to this market 
will provide even stronger financial returns for our 
customers whilst at the same time contributing 
strongly to a better environment through significant 
reduction in energy consumption. 
Signals/Illumination
Overall growth of more than 30% for the year 
with significant gains in Lighting, Obstruction and 
European Traffic Lights – our three nominated 
growth markets – is a very pleasing result. Lighting 
in particular, with sales of over £7.5 million in the 
second half, is showing an accelerating trend which 
bodes well for the coming years. Once again margins 
strengthened showing better than five percentage 
points improvement over 2009. 
During the year we were able to take advantage of 
the increased capacity in the white LED supply chain 
to reduce the prices we pay for our LEDs. This price 
reduction, along with a spectacular improvement in 
the efficiencies available, has allowed us, in some cases 
to reduce the LED cost in our products by almost 50%. 
We anticipate that this will be a long-term trend and 
will both improve our margins and open up more 
applications where, solid state lighting can add value 
to our customers.
Roy Burton 
Group Chief Executive
Summary of Chief Executive’s review:
.  Excellent 2010 performance
.  Signals/Illumination experiences record  
year-on-year growth
.  New contract for SMART meters
.  Traffic lights assembly moved to Roxboro, 
North Carolina, US
.  LED cost per fixture reduced by 50% in the year
£46.4m
total revenue
2009
.
 Sales £46.4m
.
 Profit £3.3m
£61.1m
total revenue
2010
.
 Sales £61.1m
.
 Profit £8.7m
Signals/Illumination
Segment sales/profits Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 12
Dialight North American Manufacturing Expansion
Roxboro, North Carolina, US
In 2010, Dialight expanded a significant portion of its product manufacturing, 
including moulding and hard coating operations, at its Roxboro, North Carolina 
facility. This has effectively created more than 50 production jobs and spurred 
more than $1.0 million in facility upgrades and investments to make this 
facility the only qualified US manufacturing facility for stimulus funded 
(American Recovery and Reinvestment Act) traffic signal projects.
Read more
www.dialight.com/News/Details/Traffic_Buy_American
www.dialight.com/News/Details/Roxboro_Jobs
LED Traffic Signal Lens 
+95%
 
efficiency of LED T raffic 
Signals as compared 
to traditional 150W 
incandescent
 Expansion for  
 the future  Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 13
Signals/Illumination continued
Traffic signals
Sales into the European traffic market grew by over 
34% with over half of that growth coming from the 
UK. We continue to conduct our business through 
major systems OEMs such as Siemens who supply 
a complete system to towns and cities throughout 
Europe. Whilst the UK provided the major part of 
our growth in 2010 the rest of Western Europe also 
demonstrated significant improvement. Adoption 
levels in Europe remain low and we expect increasing 
sales in this market to continue. 
As previously reported, the market for LED traffic 
signals in the US is mature, much of the traffic light 
infrastructure having already been converted to LED. 
Although we do not expect to see sales growth in 
this market, 2010 saw some modest improvement 
in sales despite the lack of any major retrofit projects. 
Towards the end of the year we moved assembly 
of our traffic light products from our Mexican plant 
to our facility in North Carolina. This move gave us 
two benefits; firstly this significantly reduced our 
supply chain costs but also this allowed us to claim 
“Buy American” status relating to the US stimulus 
programme (American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act). Structurally there has been no change to the 
business and our extensive and exclusive dealer 
network remains as strong as ever. 
As probably the largest supplier of LED traffic lights 
in the world, Dialight continues to improve both the 
performance and cost of these products to offer even 
more value to our customers. Our latest offering for 
the European market, for example, uses only a single 
LED with the same performance guarantee of more 
than five years’ life.
Obstruction lighting
For many years, tall structures of all kinds have 
been marked by red lights and white strobes as a 
collision warning for nearby aircraft. These lights 
have long been a source of challenge to maintain 
since their location, is by its nature, difficult to 
access and maintenance is of course essential 
if they are to fulfil their function.
Dialight first produced LED versions of these lights 
back in 2002 using over 1,000 red LEDs for the 
largest lights. Constant improvement and development 
has produced the latest versions using only 24 LEDs 
and using only 20W compared to over 1,400W for the 
conventional version. However, power consumption 
is not the main driver for the use of LEDs in this 
application; maintenance can be an expensive and 
risky business and Dialight’s five year warranty on 
its products is a major saver for our customers.
Whilst there exists an extensive installed base of 
obstruction lights, two specific applications offer 
Dialight substantial potential for growth. In the 
United States, structures over 199 feet require 
a white daytime strobe light and the cellular 
telephone network uses many of these towers. 
In total there are over 80,000 structures requiring 
such lighting and Dialight’s LED strobe replaces an 
unreliable xenon based strobe tube. This market 
represents over a quarter of a billion dollar opportunity 
for the Company and we remain the only qualified 
supplier of this product in the United States. In 2009 
the Company sold over 1,000 strobes and in 2010 
this number grew to almost 2,500 units. To date 
less than 5% of the current installed base of xenon 
strobes has been replaced with our high reliability 
LED product. The LED strobe is guaranteed for five 
years of use although it is quite possible that our 
strobe may outlast the tower itself! Dialight has 
supplied to eight of the top ten tower operators 
in the US in 2010 as well as many more smaller 
users and growth in this application is expected 
to continue to be strong.
+34%
growth for Dialight European LED T raffic 
Signals in 2010
98%
improved efficiency for Dialight’s LED 
red beacon compared to conventional 
incandescent systems Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 14
Business review
Chief Executive’s review continued
Signals/Illumination continued
Obstruction lighting continued
The second growth market for obstruction lighting 
is in the wind turbine market for both on and 
offshore use. Whilst Dialight has been successful 
in addressing the North American wind turbine 
market – all of which has been onshore – we had 
been less successful in penetrating the European 
market and in particular the offshore portion of that. 
In April of 2010 we acquired the Danish company, 
BTI. BTI has strong ties to a number of European 
wind turbine manufacturers and supplies a lighting 
system for offshore application. As one might expect, 
offshore installations can be a hazard to shipping 
as well as aircraft and BTI opens up a new market 
to Dialight for not only its existing products but also 
LED products for the marine market. Although the 
wind energy market has been depressed on both 
sides of the Atlantic in 2010, the long-term future 
for wind energy and associated lights is promising 
and the BTI acquisition is key to our long-term 
success in this market outside of North America.
As ever we continue to be at the cutting edge of 
solid state lighting technology and, through BTI, 
in late 2010 we demonstrated a 100,000 candela 
strobe light for a very tall turbine tower in Sweden. 
This was not only five times brighter than our current 
strobe but will spend most of its life turned off as 
it is activated by an integral radar which will detect 
the presence of nearby aircraft and only then activate 
our strobe. This is a prime example of BTI’s channel 
presence bringing Dialight’s technology to a market 
which would otherwise have been difficult to access.
Sales in Obstruction lighting grew by over 70% 
in 2010 to £12.3 million and by almost 50% even 
excluding the acquisition of BTI. Dialight’s position 
in this market should generate strong growth over 
the next several years.
Solid state lighting
In recent years many lighting suppliers have 
concentrated on architectural and entertainment 
applications as the first uses of solid state lighting. 
By contrast Dialight has looked for those applications 
which deliver immediate value to our customers 
and has chosen lighting for hazardous, industrial 
and rugged applications as the primary thrust. 
Lights for these markets frequently need to be 
qualified to exacting international standards. 
The years 2008 and 2009 were really a period 
of foundation building for this strategy, when not 
only product needed to be developed, but also 
sales teams were being recruited and trained, 
brand awareness was being created and channels 
to market developed. The last year’s results clearly 
demonstrate that our preparation has started to 
deliver its rewards and Dialight can surely claim 
to be the clear market leader in solid state lighting 
for industrial applications.
In 2009, Dialight sold approximately 3,000 light 
fixtures in industrial markets, twice as many as 
in 2008. At the close of 2010 we had sold over 
five times as many units with sales accelerating 
throughout the year. Much of this growth has 
come from the DuroSite High Bay light which was 
introduced in late 2009, although our original 
Safesite continued to grow in sales in spite of being 
superceded in the beginning of 2011 by an improved 
version. Our customer base in 2010 comprised over 
300 companies in diverse industries from oil and 
gas to pharmaceuticals to power generation to 
cold stores and many in between. Many of these 
customers are still at the trial stage with our 
products and it is possible to view many of 
these sales as merely “seeding” the market.
95%
towers in the US that still use outdated 
xenon based dual red/white technology 
in North America Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 15
DuroSite LED High Bay
 Mustard manufacturer   
 leading the pack 
Read more
www.dialight.com/News/Details/GSDunn_case_study
30%
 
output increase of white 
LED lighting technology 
over the past year
G.S. Dunn Customer Installation
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
At the G.S. Dunn quality control and inspection facility in Hamilton, Ontario, 
light quality and accuracy is a primary concern to ensure the company’s dry 
mustard products meet its stringent standards. As part of a strategic plan 
to optimise visibility and reduce energy consumption, the company replaced 
the existing 450W metal halide fittings with Dialight’s 150W LED High Bay. 
The lighting upgrade resulted in both superior colour rendering, and significant 
cost and energy savings to align with the company’s fiscal and sustainability goals. Street Light Installation
Cape Girardeau, Missouri, US
Using a US stimulus funded energy block grant, the city of Cape Girardeau 
installed 104 Dialight StreetSense LED Street Lights, replacing 250W 
high-pressure sodium fittings with the 120W LED street light. Introduced 
in December 2010, the second generation street light is providing the city 
with more uniform illumination on the street and significantly improved 
colour rendering compared to the traditional fitting.
StreetSense™ LED Street Light 
Read more 
www.dialight.com/News/Details/Cape_Girardeau_Case_Study
16 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 16
50%
 
typical energy savings with 
new StreetSense Series 
LED Street Lights
 LED lighting is the  
 buzz on the street  Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 17
Signals/Illumination continued
Solid state lighting continued
As always our products are in a mode of continuous 
improvement and the DuroSite High Bay which was 
initially introduced as a device with 8,000 lumens 
of light at 150W is now available with 12,000 lumens 
at the same wattage and with the added features 
of being dimmable and with the option of proximity 
sensing for even more efficiency. Our main strategy 
in this market is to offer immediate value to our 
customers and we are regularly calculating payback 
periods of less than a year in installations where 
lighting is heavily used.
During the year we introduced a number of new 
products as well as improving existing fixtures. As 
mentioned earlier, LED performance has improved 
markedly over the year and we now have three viable 
suppliers of the best performing LEDs. At the end 
of 2009 we were using 100 lumen/watt devices in 
our lights and we now have a good supply at close 
to 140 lumens/watt with 160 not too far away. This 
allows us either to downsize a given fixture with the 
consequent cost reduction or improve the output 
at little to no extra cost. 
Throughout 2010, most of our sales have been 
in North America having successfully set up an 
extensive network of Dialight sales managers, 
independent manufacturers representatives and 
electrical distributors. During the latter part of 2010 
we introduced product more specifically for the 
European and Asia/Pacific markets and made some 
key recruitment decisions to drive our sales into 
these geographies. We now have an Industrial 
lighting organisation based in the UK with Dialight 
sales managers in the UK, France, Germany, Dubai 
and Singapore. In addition to these appointments, 
we have recently acquired a major share in an 
Australian lighting distributor to address this 
sizeable industrial and mining marketplace.
Having enjoyed a successful 2010, we look forward 
to continued strong growth and a good return on 
the organisation investment we have made. 
LED Indication Components
The LED Indication business consists of the supply 
of small LED assemblies for status indication for 
use by major OEMs in the professional end of 
electronics. This market has been a strong profit 
and cash generator for Dialight over many years. 
This is a niche business which we do not expect 
to grow over the long term but rather to fluctuate 
with the general market. More than half of our sales 
are channelled through electronics distributors who 
address over 15,000 Dialight customers. The balance 
of the business goes through contract manufacturers 
who build for our major OEM customers like IBM, Cisco, 
Lucent Alcatel and others. During the first half of 2010 
we saw continuation of the strong finish to 2009. 
This resulted in a build up of inventory in the distributor 
channel with a consequent correction in the second 
half of the year . Encouragingly sales by our distributors 
to end users remained flat throughout the year. 
There was no price erosion and the business continues 
to be fundamentally sound but is also expected to 
continue to follow the fluctuations of the general 
electronics market.
Electromagnetic Components
Sales in this segment grew by approximately 10%. 
All of that growth came from sales into the utility 
market driven by demand for high current switches 
to be used in SMART meters for the US. A key event 
for Dialight in 2010 was the signing of a supply 
agreement with a third major meter manufacturer 
for the US market. Shipments to this new customer 
were modest in 2010 but we expect more significant 
revenues in the coming year. 
LED Indication Components
Segment sales/profits
£23.5m
total revenue
£17.6m
total revenue
2010
.
 Sales £23.5m
.
 Profit £5.6m
2009
.
 Sales £17 .6m
.
 Profit £3.2m 18 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18
Electromagnetic Components continued
Although shorter term prospects for the SMART 
metering market are strongest in the US with over 
100 million meters to be converted, the rest of the 
world is also moving towards mass conversion to 
SMART metering. We are working on geographical 
expansion of this business where we believe we can 
generate long-term growth for the business.
As commented last year, although the growth 
potential is significant, margins are and will remain 
tight in this market.
Operations and engineering
Once again our Operations and Engineering units 
have been an important factor in the success of 
Dialight. Timely new product developments and 
continued cost and performance improvements 
can be seen in both the volume of sales for the 
Signals/Illumination segment and in the further 
enhancement to margins. Contribution margins 
improved by over 3% following the 6% 
improvement in 2009.
In 2010 we filed 29 new patents, 16 were granted 
and 61 are pending. Continuous innovation and the 
refusal to accept that status quo is good enough is 
endemic in the thought processes of our technical 
staff and this driven approach is fundamental to 
our continued success. 
Operationally we continue to tighten our supply 
chains and expand capacity ahead of the expected 
demands for our products. Investment in our North 
Carolina and Newmarket facilities has brought our 
manufacturing closer to our customers as well as 
reducing our dependence on third party suppliers. 
Inventories have remained nicely under control 
in spite of the increased volumes going through 
our factories and we are well prepared for the 
challenges that growing sales will bring in 2011.
Summary
2010 both started and ended very strongly as our 
innovative products begin to penetrate their individual 
markets bringing savings in energy, savings in 
maintenance and improved safety to our customers. 
Our strategy of selecting niche markets with strong 
growth potential for our products should set the 
scene for sustained improvements in the Group’s 
revenues along with the demonstrated margin 
improvement in our Signals/Illumination business. 
Our strategy is proving to be effective in delivering 
both top and bottom line growth and we see the 
exciting performance of our ultra-efficient lighting 
business as being just the start of accelerating 
adoption of this technology in our chosen markets.
Roy Burton 
Group Chief Executive
Business review
Chief Executive’s review continued
Electromagnetic Components
Segment sales/profits
£14.6m
total revenue
£13.3m
total revenue
2010
.
 Sales £14.6m
.
 Profit £0.1m
2009
.
 Sales £13.3m
.
 Profit £0.7m Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 19
DuroSite LED High Bay
Read more 
www.dialight.com/News/Details/US_Financing_Program
In 2010, Dialight partnered with Capital One Leasing and Finance and 
SME Eurofinance, two leaders in flexible and affordable equipment financing 
solutions. This partnership allows customers to take advantage of affordable 
and flexible leasing and lending options when upgrading their existing lighting 
fixtures to Dialight’s high-efficiency, long-life LED lighting solutions. As financing 
options become a more critical component of many LED upgrade projects 
Dialight is now in a position to help customers by funding assets over their 
useful economic life and thereby protect their valuable working capital for 
more productive purposes.
100%
 
project financing from 
Capital One can help 
customers become cash 
positive from day one
 Financing just makes  
 dollars and sense! 
