 10 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 10
the Board and left the Company. On behalf of the 
Board I would like to express my thanks to both 
Robert and George for their contribution to Dialight.
Staff
The contribution of our staff is critical to our continued 
success and I would like to express my thanks for our 
people’s commitment, hard work and support over 
the past year. There are exciting but challenging 
times ahead and the Group can approach these with 
confidence in the knowledge that everyone in the 
organisation is working towards a common goal.
2010 has also seen a comprehensive review of 
Dialight’s management and organisational structure. 
The resulting strengthening at both an operational 
and a corporate level will provide the necessary 
foundation for the Company to move forward into 
2011 and beyond.
Acquisitions and investments
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome 
BTI and ILS to the Dialight Group. These additions 
further strengthen the capability of the Group in its 
chosen markets whilst expanding its presence into 
new geographic areas.
Current trading and outlook
Our LED Indication business recovered somewhat 
from the downturn of 2009 and delivered its usual 
strong profits. Once again SMART meter disconnects 
grew and we look forward to continued expansion 
in this market. 
Our Signals/Illumination business is delivering the 
level of growth and profit that we had forecasted 
and is no longer merely a business with a promising 
future. We are, however, still at the early stages of 
what the Board believes will be a period of continued 
high growth. Improvements in LED technology and 
our ability to turn them into even stronger value 
propositions for our customers represents an exciting 
opportunity for the Company over the coming years.
The Board’s continued confidence in the Group’s 
excellent prospects is supported by the strong 
performance in 2010 and in particular by the 
progress in ultra-efficient lighting and signalling.
Business review
Chairman’s statement
Financial results
I am extremely pleased to present an excellent set 
of results for 2010. The year has seen unprecedented 
growth in the Signals/Illumination business that serves 
to demonstrate the success of the Group’s strategy 
to focus on defensible niche markets. More than 60% 
of total Group revenue has come from this business 
with a doubling in Lighting sales and excellent growth 
in Traffic and Obstruction lighting.
Revenue in 2010 grew by 28.3% to £99.2 million 
compared with £77 .3 million in 2009. This is a strong 
performance and is particularly pleasing given that 
there has been growth in each of the reported market 
segments and in each of the major reported territories. 
Contribution margins have increased from 39.3% to 
41.0% with the benefit of significant investment in 
product re-engineering and cost reduction. Overall 
Group operating profit has more than doubled to 
£11.2 million (2009: £5.5 million) and with tight working 
capital control, the Group has generated operating 
cash flow of £14.0 million leading to a year-end cash 
balance of £10.4 million. These results provide a solid 
base for future growth and continued commercial 
and technical investment will support that growth 
for the coming years.
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy, 
the Board has proposed a final dividend of 5.2 pence 
per share (2009: second interim: 4.3 pence) giving 
a total dividend of 8.0 pence which is an increase 
of 21.2% (2009: 6.6 pence). Dividend cover is 3.0 times. 
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), this dividend will be paid 
on 6 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at 
close of business on 8 April 2011. The total dividend 
on a paid basis in respect of 2010 is 7.1 pence 
(2009: 6.2 pence per share).
Board changes 
In the middle of 2010, Robert Jeens retired 
from the Board after over nine years of service 
and Robert Lambourne joined the Board as his 
replacement. In September 2010 Mark Fryer 
joined the Board as Group Finance Director 
and consequently George Ralph, who had been 
serving as Interim Finance Director , resigned from 
Harry Tee CBE
Chairman
Summary of Chairman’s statement:
.  Revenue grown by 28.3% to record level of £99.2 million
.  Board recommends final dividend of 5.2 pence per 
ordinary share
.  Acquisition of BTI and investment in ILS demonstrate 
commitment to strategic selective acquisitions
