 www.dialight.com
03
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Operations and engineering
Continued improvement of our products is key to our continued 
success. Our engineering and operations teams are tasked with 
an ongoing objective of improved performance and reduced cost 
as both the performance of LEDs increases and our techniques 
for extracting the most light for the least power evolve. Our product 
and technology road map continues to be aggressive and the 
good performance of 2011 is but a template for the coming years. 
Our Signals/Illuminations contribution margins improved by 1.7% 
and the efficiency of our white lights improved by 23% and at a 
better cost.
Our patent base grew considerably in 2011. We had eight new 
patents granted, filed 25 new applications and had 78 patent 
applications pending at the year end. Innovation and improvement 
are the watchwords for our technical staff as they take on the 
challenge to provide the best and most cost-effective products 
in the industry. 
Once more our operations performed well as we expanded 
capacity for Solid State Lighting in both North America and the 
United Kingdom. Our focus is on superior operational performance 
and the continual improvement of our cost base.
Summary
Once again our niche strategy has delivered top and bottom 
line growth with a road map to sustain this for the coming years. 
Our products have improved during 2011 and have brought better 
savings in energy, less maintenance and improved safety to our 
customers. The key Signals/Illumination segment is positioned to 
drive the Group forward to achieve continued growth which will be 
more strongly fuelled by our developments and innovations in 
Solid State Lighting as we enable the penetration of our solutions 
into the vast installed base of Industrial Lighting.
Roy Burton
Group Chief Executive
“ In 2011, all of the Group’s growth in both revenues 
and profits came from the Signals/Illumination segment. 
As the efficiencies and costs of LEDs improve, more 
applications for Solid State Lighting make financial 
and environmental sense for our customers in the 
industrial marketplace.”
Roy Burton
For more information on operations 
and engineering see our 
Operating review on page 12
Review of the year
The continuation of turbulent economic conditions set the 
background for the year, yet the Group was still able to post record 
revenues with growth of almost 15% overall and almost 30% in its 
key Signals/Illuminations segment. The principal drivers within the 
segment were Obstruction Lighting with growth of 45% and Industrial 
Lighting with growth of 128%. Our strategy of continued focus on 
large niche markets with significant barriers to entry is proving 
to be successful even against a tough economic backdrop.
Revenues in the LED Indication Components segment have always 
been cyclical and the global economy has undoubtedly affected 
the appetite of our distributors in this segment to hold inventory. 
Whilst their sales of our products to end users have been relatively 
flat for the last twenty four months, our sales to the distributors 
are down by almost 14% year-on-year. This business is expected to 
return to more normal levels when confidence in the economy returns.
Sales of Electromagnetic Components were flat for the year in a 
difficult pricing environment. The price of both silver and copper 
escalated significantly in 2011 and not all of our customers were 
prepared to pay for this increased cost. We therefore declined to 
supply them in 2011. The potential volumes from the SMART meter 
market are significant, but the Board has decided to investigate 
the potential for selling this business and this is planned to conclude 
by the end of the first half of 2012. View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/chief_executives_review
Chief Executive’s review
