 Once again Lighting has demonstrated 
signiﬁcant growth based on our strategy 
of targeting the hazardous and industrial 
lighting market. Improved performance 
in both Lighting efﬁcacy and expected 
lifetime resulting from our extensive 
investment in the introduction of new 
products has made it easier for our 
customers to adopt our Lighting products.
Dialight’s Lighting sales force has more than 
doubled in 2012 and the deployment of these 
extra sales staff is a precursor to continued 
signiﬁcant growth in the coming years.
2012 is just the fourth year of our participation 
in this business which is now signiﬁcant enough 
to become a separate reportable segment and 
within that segment it is clear that not only have 
revenues increased but also proﬁtability has 
now reached a par with our other reportable 
segments, with more improvement to come.
Chie 
Executive’s 
review
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 7
Performance review
Per ormance review
Our strategy 
is delivering
Since early 2009 when Dialight’s ﬁrst industrial 
light was introduced, the strategy has been to 
focus on sizeable niche markets with defensible 
barriers to entry. These deliver strong returns 
for customers through the application of the 
most current LED technology. Our focus has 
been to provide products which address the 
heavy industrial market and in particular those 
applications which demand the use of lighting 
which is rated for use in hazardous locations.
The value that Dialight’s products bring to 
this hazardous market applies to the installed 
base of industrial lighting and to brand new 
installations giving an addressable market 
size in the tens of billions of pounds globally. 
Our sales of £45.5m are tiny in relation 
to the available market and bearing in mind 
that Dialight is the pioneer of LED lighting 
for industrial applications, the opportunity 
for superior growth exists for years to come.
It is useful to understand why it is that this market 
is appropriate for our products and what value 
we bring to our potential customers. We address 
customers in the Oil and Gas, Power Generation, 
Heavy Process Industry and Manufacturing and 
Food and Beverage markets, most of whom will 
have round the clock operations with lighting 
running 24/7 and no ability to easily shut down 
their processes. It is in these applications that our 
ability to save more than 50% of the energy bill 
and guarantee uninterrupted lighting for up to 
ten years drives rapid paybacks and signiﬁcant 
return on investment.
These customers operate on a global basis 
and following our expansions into Australia, the 
Middle East and Japan in 2011, we established 
Dialight Asia based in Singapore to address the 
ASEAN market. Additionally we continued our 
programme of recruitment of sales personnel 
in the US, Mexico, Eastern Europe, Western 
Europe, Russia and Australia to more than double 
the number of Dialight sales people throughout the 
world. A key part of our expansion has been the 
establishment of a Dialight ofﬁce in Houston, 
T exas. A large proportion of all Oil and Gas 
projects are speciﬁed by major engineering 
companies based in Houston. These projects 
typically have a long gestation period and 
will provide long-term business for Dialight.
Towards the end of 2012, we introduced 
a further extension to our High Bay range 
of products which will extend the applications 
which our LED lights can address. This new 
product produces over 25,000 lumens and 
allows us to replace up to 1,000 watts of 
conventional lighting using only 250 watts. 
This is just the latest in a continuing ﬂow 
of improved new products. 
Since our Solid State Lights are based 
on semiconductor technology, they lend 
themselves to control and monitoring which 
cannot be achieved with conventional lighting. 
In June of 2012, Dialight purchased the trade 
and assets of Airinet, based in Pueblo, Colorado 
for their ability to develop unique controls for 
our industrial lights. Multiple features will be 
available with the Airinet product set which will 
signiﬁcantly enhance the payback of our lighting 
systems with minimal extra cost. We expect ﬁrst 
signiﬁcant sales to be in 2013.
Lighting
2012 2011 
Revenue £45.5m £26.4m 
Proﬁt £8.6m £2.0m  www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 8
Revenues reduced by 8% in the year driven 
by difﬁcult conditions in the Trafﬁc market. 
Obstruction signals were broadly ﬂat due to the 
deferral of a major contract in the USA. Contribution 
Margins were held at last year’ s levels.
Traffic signals 
Sales into this market were down in both Europe 
and North America. The potential for growth in 
Europe remains due to low penetration of LED 
based signals but current economic conditions are 
delaying signiﬁcant adoption rates. Our relationships 
with key Trafﬁc Systems OEMs throughout Europe 
remain strong and business with Siemens in both 
Germany and the UK is particularly important. 
Our sales to towns and cities throughout Europe 
are through these OEMs who supply a complete 
trafﬁc system. One would expect that with the 
current low level of adoption we would see a 
return to growth as the economy improves or as 
capital for cost saving projects becomes available. 
The North American market for LED Trafﬁc signals 
is now mature. The majority of the installed base 
of trafﬁc signals has already been converted to 
LED technology. We are now beginning to replace 
the LED signals which were supplied over ten years 
ago. A major issue in funding this replacement is 
the fact that efﬁcient signals are being replaced 
with even more efﬁcient signals saving perhaps 
a further 10 watts of power. Put simply, there is 
minimal saving produced by the new lights. In 
an effort to encourage this replacement, Dialight 
has introduced an integrated signal head which 
will give the cities a twenty year life for their new 
lights with only a single, simple power supply 
change, thus allowing our customers to use 
a twenty year life for their payback calculations. 
Obstruction signals
Dialight has pioneered the use of LED technology 
for aircraft warning lights on tall structures around 
the world. For the US market, these lights are 
regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration 
and Dialight has often been the only qualiﬁed 
source for an LED version of various of these 
lights. The beneﬁts of LEDs in this application 
Performance review
are obvious being much more reliable than the more 
conventional light sources that have been used 
by other suppliers. The lights themselves can be put 
into roughly three categories: red beacons for wind 
turbines and painted structures; medium intensity 
white strobe lights for telecommunications towers 
between 200 and 500 feet; and, high intensity white 
strobes for broadcast towers of more than 500 feet. 
The market for red beacons is the most mature and 
has been serviced by a number of suppliers for the 
past several years. The market for medium intensity 
white strobes has been the exclusive province of 
Dialight since 2007 with signiﬁcant sales in 2010, 
2011 and 2012. Channel to market is through value 
added resellers who have added extra features 
and functionality to our signals. The potential 
remaining market for this product in the US is still 
in excess of $200m so some competition was to 
be expected and in the latter part of the year one of 
our former resellers introduced a competing product 
to the market. This had the effect of delaying the 
award of a major contract from an operator of over 
7,000 towers which had previously been expected 
by Dialight. It is likely that this will be awarded 
in 2013 and Dialight is in a good position to be 
awarded a signiﬁcant piece of this. More than 
50% of this market rests with the top ten tower 
operators and Dialight is conﬁdent in its position 
with those operators. In order to safeguard our 
channel position, the Company has decided to 
take a more direct approach to its customers 
and has enhanced its offering to the market 
to give control and monitoring options to its 
customers using technology derived from its 
Airinet acquisition (which is discussed further 
in the Lighting segment above).
In late 2011, the Company introduced a high 
intensity strobe for very tall towers in the US market 
and during 2012 sold some 20 systems. The 
potential for this market is at least the same as 
that for the medium intensity product and the 
product is signiﬁcantly more complicated. This 
product will largely be sold on a direct basis to 
end users. It is expected that this product will 
extend the growth horizon to the Obstruction 
signals product line.
Our European business supplies Obstruction 
signals primarily for the Offshore Wind Turbine 
market. Several major German projects were 
deferred to 2013 but we were still able to show 
some minor growth in Europe and it is expected 
these projects will be shipped in the New Year.
Signals
Revenue breakdown
Pro it breakdown
2012 2011 
Revenue £48.1m £52.5m 
Proﬁt £11.3m £11.8m 
Segmental analysis
Lighting
Signals
Components www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 9
Performance review
Per ormance review
Up until this year, we have reported two 
components segments; one being LED 
Indication Components the other being 
Electromagnetic Disconnects. During 2012 
the part of Electromagnetic Disconnects which 
relates to Utility Switches was divested and 
so we will now report a combined Components 
Segment which is the combination of LED 
Indication and the remaining small portion of 
Electromagnetic Disconnects. This segment is 
cyclical and over time is not expected to grow. 
Much of the business is channelled through 
distributors and has a very diverse customer 
base. Margins are strong and stable and are 
expected to remain so. The business is split 
between sales through distributors, which 
constitutes more than half of the revenues 
and address over 15,000 Dialight customers. 
The balance of the business goes through 
contract manufacturers who assemble for our 
major OEM customers who supply high end 
servers, internet access equipment, cellular 
infrastructure and storage. We believe the 
fundamentals of the business remain sound 
and should provide several years of continued 
proﬁt input albeit with ﬂuctuations in line with 
the general electronics market. 
Operations and engineering 
Once again our Engineering and Operations 
teams had a busy year. From the introduction 
of ground breaking new products to establishing 
manufacturing on a new continent, our technical 
staff were kept fully engaged all year.
Major new product introductions this year saw 
our ﬁrst 100 lm/W products hit the market – 
the ﬁrst in the industry. This has now become 
our standard and we are striving to further 
improve this efﬁciency in 2013 but signiﬁcantly 
this improvement will not be as a result only of 
improved LED efﬁciency. Within any LED lighting 
system losses occur due to optical, thermal and 
electronic inefﬁciencies. Dialight engineers and 
scientists work to optimise the performance of 
all three technologies to give the best possible 
performance as they have done over the last four 
years. The efﬁciency of our lights has doubled 
since the introduction of our ﬁrst Safesite
®
 
product. This improved efﬁciency translates 
directly into savings in electricity usage and 
therefore cost. In addition to electricity savings, 
reliability is vital to many of our customers. 
In applications where access is difﬁcult or 
dangerous, process shutdowns are expensive, 
reliable lighting is paramount. From the launch 
of our ﬁrst lights, all of our products have 
carried a ﬁve-year comprehensive warranty. 
Once again an industry exclusive for Dialight 
is the announcement of a ten year warranty for 
our latest products thus giving our customers 
an even longer period over which to calculate 
savings and return on investment as well as 
enjoying maintenance free lighting. In addition 
to these technical improvements, our engineers 
have reduced our costs to give over 8% 
improvement in Lighting contribution margins. 
Ongoing redesign to reduce our costs as well 
as improving performance is the watchword 
for our engineers and we will continue this 
task in 2013. 
In order to service the growth in our Lighting 
business we have expanded production capacity 
in existing facilities as well as opening a new facility 
in Penang, Malaysia. Our plan is that this new 
plant will be used for the duty free supply of 
Lighting products into most of the fast growing 
Asia Paciﬁc region. Malaysia gives us not only 
a cost effective base but also closeness to 
important geographies in the Oil and Gas markets.
Intellectual property is important to us and 
in the year we had eight new patents granted. 
We ﬁled 36 new applications and we had 115 
patent applications pending at the year end. 
Summary 
Once again our niche strategy has delivered 
top and bottom line growth with a road map to 
sustain this for the coming years. Our products 
have improved during 2012 and have brought 
better savings in energy, less maintenance and 
improved safety to our customers. The key 
Lighting segment is positioned to drive the 
Group forward to achieve continued growth 
which will be more strongly fuelled by our 
continued developments and innovations in 
Lighting as we enable the penetration of our 
solutions into the vast installed base of 
Industrial Lighting. 
The following pages set out the Group’ s business 
model and investment proposition, and its strategy 
and Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”). 
To demonstrate some achievements during 
the year and to highlight the future we have 
included a regional review of the Americas, 
Asia Paciﬁc/Australia and Europe/Middle East 
alongside relevant case studies.
Roy Burton
Group Chief Executive
Components
2012 2011 
Revenue £21.5m £23.7m 
Proﬁt £3.1m £4.9m 
