 www.dialight.com
2 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Overview
Revolutionary 
technology
Dialight at  
a glance
Dialight comprises the following business segments:
Signals 
which addresses the increasing demands for energy 
efﬁcient Signalling solutions through the use of 
high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of 
associated technologies. Areas of business include 
Trafﬁc, Vehicle and Obstruction Signals.
Revenue
£48.1m
Dialight is leading the lighting revolution for industrial users across the 
world. Applying leading edge LED technology it produces retro- ttable 
lighting xtures designed speci cally for ha ardous locations obstruction 
signals and traf c signalling to vastly reduce maintenance save energy 
improve safety and ease disposal.
Lighting
which addresses the increasing demands for energy 
efﬁcient Lighting solutions through the use of 
high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of 
associated technologies. Areas of business include 
Solid State Lighting products for Hazardous 
and Non-Hazardous Industrial applications.
Revenue
£45.5m
Components
whose sales are primarily to Electronics OEMs 
for status indication and residual disconnect 
components for automotive and niche 
industrial application. 
Revenue
£21.5m
Key markets
We operate within various markets: Oil, gas and petrochemical
Customers involved in exploration and production 
through to the reﬁning and processing of natural 
resources are beneﬁting from improved safety, 
quality of light and reliability.
Mining
Speciﬁed due to our products extreme ability to 
withstand shock and vibration, Dialight has seen 
tremendous growth in mining applications.
Chemical and pharmaceutical
Process heavy chemical and pharmaceutical 
operations take advantage of Dialight’s 
maintenance free ﬁxtures eliminating the need to 
change bulbs in these dangerous environments.
Heavy industrial
Steel processing, pulp, paper and automotive 
manufacturers and other heavy industrial 
applications are realising the switch to 
Dialight’s technology not only improves 
production but also makes ﬁnancial sense. www.dialight.com
3
Overview
Overview
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Natural Gas Compressor 
Station, Colorado, USA
Key products
DuroSite
®
 25,000 Lumen LED High Bay 
Introduced in 2012, this 100+ lm/W ﬁxture is 
used in very high ceiling applications and can 
often eliminate the number of light ﬁxtures 
required to illuminate an area. 
Sa eSite
®
 LED Area Light
Available with a simple retroﬁt kit, this versatile 
LED area light replaces up to 250w traditional 
ﬁxtures while consuming only 70w of power. 
Vigilant
®
 L 856 LED High Intensity Strobe
The world’s ﬁrst and only available LED High 
Intensity Strobe is used in obstruction signals 
applications above 500 feet, eliminating costly 
tower climbs to replace existing ﬁxtures.
We are constantly developing new 
products for markets and applications 
which were unable to bene t from 
LED technology until now.
Innovation
Major new product introductions, including 
our 25kw High Bay and other 100 lumen 
per watt (“lm/W”) products, continue 
to be the ﬁrst to market in the industry.
Expertise
Our 40+ years of LED proﬁciency is illustrated 
by our ability to continually push the boundaries 
with our industry leading LED lighting ﬁxtures.
Sustainability
Our LED products not only reduce energy 
consumption, but signiﬁcantly lower greenhouse 
gas emissions and eliminate the need for the use 
of mercury in lighting technology.
Our values:
