 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 30
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s overview and Board of Directors
I am pleased to introduce this year’s Governance section 
on behalf of all my Board colleagues. Between us we have 
the responsibility for both the stewardship and the 
governance of the Group. 
This section starts by introducing my fellow Directors, sets out details 
of our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code as updated 
and published by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in September 2012 
(the “Code”) and includes the information currently required by statute. 
The balance of this section includes reports from the respective chairs 
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. Although our 
report on corporate governance compliance applies for the year ended 
31 December 2014, we have included in that report and the Remuneration 
Committee report, where relevant, and reflected in the biographies and 
Committee membership structure, the recently announced Board changes 
in relation to Roy Burton and Richard Stuckes.
Dialight is a company incorporated in the UK and listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. The principal corporate governance rules applying 
to Dialight are contained in the Code, the UK Financial Conduct Authority 
(“FCA”) Listing Rules (“Listing Rules”), the FCA’ s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (“DTR”) and the Companies Act 2006 (“CA 2006”) together 
with other regulations. As a result of the continued reference to the Code 
published in 2010 in the Listing Rules, all references to the Code can be 
read to include the earlier version of the Code along with that published 
in September 2012.
As noted in my introduction last year, Mark Fryer, Group Finance Director, 
left the Company on 15 January 2014. Fariyal Khanbabi was appointed 
Group Finance Director in September 2014. During the interim period, 
Kevin Higginson joined us as Interim Chief Financial Officer but was not 
appointed to the Board. Details of Mark Fryer’s termination payment 
arrangements and Fariyal Khanbabi’s remuneration arrangements 
are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
In relation to the Annual Report specifically, we are required to provide 
detail of our compliance with the Code and explain any derogations 
from it. This section, together with the Remuneration Committee report 
on pages 44 to 54, provides this information which allows our shareholders 
to make an informed judgement of our Company and to understand how 
the Company is governed in relation to the Code as a criterion of good 
practice. We have also replicated our remuneration policy, which was 
approved by shareholders at our 2014 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), 
by way of an appendix to the Remuneration report. The Code is available 
online from the FRC at www.frc.org.uk and in making our compliance 
disclosures we have had regard to the updated 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code that was issued by the FRC in September 2014.
Bill Ronald
Chairman
Bill Ronald (59)
Chairman
Term of office: Chairman since September 2012. 
Joined the Board in May 2009 
as a Non‑Executive Director. 
Board Committees: Nominations (Chair) 
and Remuneration. 
Experience: Past appointments to a number 
of different boards. Within Dialight, Bill previously 
held the positions of Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and was 
a member of the Audit Committee. 
Current external appointments: Chairman of the 
Compleat Food Group and Fevertree Drinks plc and 
Chair of Trustees of the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 31
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Roy Burton (67)
Group Chief Executive
Term of office: Group Chief Executive between 
September 2005 and March 2015. Joined the Group 
in July 2002 as President of Dialight Corporation. 
Board Committees: Nominations (until March 2015).
Experience: Many years’ experience in the electronics 
industry in the UK working with Philips Electronics, 
ITT and Amphenol Corporation, Group President 
Electronics for Thomas and Betts Corporation, and 
as Chief Executive Officer of Coraza Systems Inc.
Current external appointments: None.
Richard Stuckes (47)
Interim Group Chief Executive
Term of office: Non‑Executive Director between 
May 2009 and February 2015. Appointed Interim 
Group Chief Executive in February 2015.
Board Committees: Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration (each until February 2015).
Experience: 13 years with Philips Lighting, including 
a role as Managing Director for the UK activity and 
for both the Spanish and Portuguese businesses. 
He was Managing Director of the paints business in 
EMEA for AkzoNobel, Chief Executive Officer for Imperial 
Chemical Industries Paints UK and Ireland. Most recently, 
Chief Executive Officer of DS Smith Packaging Limited.
Current external appointments: None.
Robert Lambourne (63)
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Chair of the Audit Committee since 
2010. Joined the Board as a Non‑ Executive Director 
in May 2010. 
Board Committees: Audit (Chair), Nominations 
and Remuneration.
Experience: Chartered Accountant, various public 
company executive directorships, most recently as 
Finance Director of RMC Group Plc. Non‑ Executive 
Director of Huttig Inc in the US and Chairman of Penox 
SA in France and Analyst Investment Management plc. 
Non‑ Executive Director of Pace Micro T echnology plc 
and Abacus Group Plc as well as a number of private 
companies in the UK.
Current external appointments: Non‑ Executive 
Director of The Tintometer Limited.
Tracey Graham (49)
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee since February 2013. Joined the Board 
as a Non‑ Executive Director in January 2013. 
Board Committees: Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration (Chair). 
Experience: Chief Executive of T alaris Limited until 
2010 where she led the company’ s management 
buy‑ out. Senior positions in banking and insurance 
with HSBC and AXA Insurance.
Current external appointments: Non‑ Executive 
Director of RPS Group plc and of Royal London 
Group where she chairs their respective 
Remuneration Committees. 
Stephen Bird (54)
Senior Independent Director
Term of office: Senior Independent Director 
since February 2013. Joined the Board as 
a Non‑Executive Director in January 2013. 
Board Committees: Audit, Nominations  
and Remuneration. 
Experience: Non‑ Executive Director of Umeco plc, 
Divisional Managing Director of Weir Oil & Gas, part 
of Weir Group plc. Senior roles at Danaher Corporation, 
Black & Decker, Unipart Group, Hepworth PLC 
and Technicolor Group.
Current external appointments:  
Group Chief Executive of The Vitec Group plc.
Fariyal Khanbabi (47)
Group Finance Director
Term of office: Joined Dialight plc on 8 September 2014 
as Group Finance Director.
Board Committees: None.
Experience: From 2009 until joining Dialight 
in September 2014 Fariyal was Chief Financial Officer 
at Blue Ocean Group, an independent, privately 
owned, £4 billion revenue fuel trading and distribution 
business. She has over ten years’ experience in senior 
financial positions, including roles at NYSE and 
Nasdaq‑ listed companies.
Current external appointments: None.
