 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
In last year’s Annual Report, I indicated my belief in Dialog’s
potential and ability to pursue a number of higher-growth
opportunities in the mobile phone, consumer electronics and
automotive systems markets. During 2007 we made considerable
progress in this endeavour, and established relationships
with a number of world-class customers. Clearly this is still a
“work in progress”, but the early results can be seen in increased
revenue and improved gross margins over the four quarters
of 2007.
We also maintained our focus on tackling the key challenges
that I indicated last year, and that are facing Dialog in the
years ahead:
 improving our cost platform;
 diversifying our revenue;
 focusing our products and sales on higher-growth markets; and
 strengthening our management and skill base.
We made significant progress in the year in addressing
each of these challenges.
Improving our cost platform
We completed the transition of our final-test operations from
Germany to off-shore subcontractors in Asia. We now have a truly
scalable business platform to build further growth without having
incurred major capital expenditure for manufacturing equipment.
The transition was carried out with the utmost care and without
disrupting our excellent product delivery record to our customers.
We implemented our decision to de-list from Nasdaq in
January 2007 and that has already helped to simplify our
financial reporting process and reduce our administrative costs.
Diversifying our revenue
In 2007, we developed a completely new market area for the
Company when we began volume production of highly-
integrated power management devices for one of the world’s
leading consumer electronics companies. We made steady gains
of new customer designs in Asia, Europe and North America,
and started shipping our highly-integrated audio and power
management devices for third-generation 3G/HSDPA mobile
phones and smart multimedia phones. This business had a
significant, and increasing, impact on our revenue in the
second half of the year.
We also continue to focus on innovative differentiated,
“always-on” display drivers, targeted at the emerging thin,
low-power displays for mobile, and personal handheld
applications, using technologies such as e-paper, MEMS and
OLED. From the second half of 2008, this range of new
products in established, and emerging, sectors will provide the
Company with new opportunities for revenue generation in
growth markets for a number of years.
Focusing our products and sales on higher-growth markets
During the year we focused our research and development (R&D)
effort on producing world-class technology in the shape of an
increasingly broad base of products, from which to generate
future solutions for customers and returns for our Shareholders.
We made a further investment in advanced low-power audio
technology when we set up a new design centre in Scotland.
Our portfolio of automotive and industrial products, which covers
highly-integrated smart motor controllers and electronic lamp
ballast products, continued to produce dependable revenue in
2007 while we completed the development of a number of new
products, ready to launch in 2008.
We had notable success in applying our System-on-Chip
(“SoC”) technology for smart motor controllers for new
end-applications – such as seatbelt control and cooling fan
equipment – with new tier1 automotive customers. In addition,
we are pursuing the integration of advanced 32-bit
microprocessors on chips that require sophisticated signal
processing for intelligent car batteries.
In addition, we are developing an increasing family of
highly-integrated power management and audio companion
IC products for a number of our partners’ popular Application
and Baseband processors. Our products address market
sub-segments, such as smart phones, PND and other
handheld multimedia devices.
During 2007, Dialog’s board and
executive team worked diligently
to position the Company for future
proﬁtable growth. While there is
still room for improvement, I am
pleased to report that we have
made signiﬁcant progress. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report 2007 13
“How can we help
address the challenges
of automotive in today’s
environmentally
conscious world?”
“Y ou know, Dialog has 20 years’ experience
in automotive and industrial IC development.
Our design teams bring an international
dimension to problem solving and
with our combined high voltage and high
performance CMOS technology we can give
our customers true system integration
and save power. ” 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
Strengthening our management and skill base
The Non-executive Directors who joined our Board brought
valuable new perspectives from mobile phone operators,
world-class manufacturing and Silicon Valley culture.
These, together with the additional members of the executive
team, who have brought further semiconductor industry
management expertise since early 2006, have made a
significant contribution to the Company’s knowledge base
and, through that, to its strategy.
We continued to attract significant industry talent and expertise
in 2007, particularly in our Design, Application engineering,
Product Marketing, Sales, and Global Manufacturing teams,
and our new design centre in Scotland has already attracted
a highly-qualified team of international R&D engineers.
The restructuring of our manufacturing has, inevitably, resulted
in a degree of turnover in our staff, but it has enabled us to
augment and upgrade our technical and marketing skills
without increasing our total headcount. Most importantly,
this will increase our ability to deliver our mid-term strategy.
A year of recovery
The year was – as we forecast – one of recovery and improving
financial performance. During the first half, we gradually began
to recover from the unforeseen insolvency of our major wireless
customer – BenQ Mobile GmbH – in Q3 2006, while maintaining
a tight control over expenditure and cash management.
Also as we forecast, in the second half of the year, we began
to see a resurgence in revenue from our Wireless products.
This was fuelled by the shipment of our new 3G phones and
portable consumer multimedia products. By the end of the
year, our focus on higher-growth opportunities was already
manifesting itself in quarterly improvements in revenue
and gross margin: we ended Q4 2007 with a normalised
quarterly gross margin approaching 40%.
Gross margin for the full year reached 33.4% – a significant
improvement over 2006 (18.6%) and 2005 (28.3%). This is a
clear indication that our strategy of selecting opportunities in
higher-growth higher-margin segments, while exiting lower-
margin commoditised LCD products, is proving to be a success.
The future
Going forward, we will continue our efforts to fine-tune our
strategy to ensure that the Company is well positioned to deliver
sustainable growth, in revenue and profits, for the benefit of all
our Shareholders.
In 2008 we will focus on developing and accelerating the
implementation of our strategy. We will:
 continue building our our portfolio of Application Specific
Standard Products for power management, audio, display and
automotive applications. These will enable us to broaden our
customer base by using specialist distributors channels;
 enhance our competitive advantage in power management,
advanced audio, and high voltage mixed-signal SoC through
focused R&D;
 increase our sales, marketing and technical support to clients,
worldwide, with particular focus on expansion in the North
America and Asia markets;
 optimise our operating platform by migrating to an advanced
Information Management Systems to enable further scalable
growth; and
 position and communicate Dialog’s brand, strategy and
unique values coherently to the broader markets as well
as to investors.
2007 was a year of recovery, execution and a return to a growth
path, and I am grateful to all Dialog’s employees, who showed
great professionalism and dedication throughout a very
challenging year.
At the heart of our strategy, we continue to be committed to
creating sustainable Shareholder value, and we view sustainable
profitable growth as our prime objective. Subject to wider
economic uncertainties, your Board sees the current year as one
of opportunity for Dialog to demonstrate that sustainable growth,
and attain profitability.
I have every confidence in our future.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
