 6 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s statement
Section 1 | Overview
Dear Shareholders,
In the 2006 Annual Report, I wrote that 2007 would be a year
of further transition for the Company. This has proved to be
the case: the management team has made terrific progress in
positioning the Company for sustainable growth and, of course,
in increasing Shareholder value.
For the Board, the most pleasing aspect has been the steady
increase in gross margin throughout 2007, from just under 20%
in the first quarter of the year to just over 40% in the fourth
quarter. While there is still much to do, the Board is much more
confident that the business is on the right course. As a result, it
not only thanks the management team for its efforts but, in a
drive to maintain the current momentum in the business, is also
looking at ways to align the team members’ rewards more closely
to the interests of Shareholders. A proposal to this effect will be
made at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and will, I hope,
receive the support of our Shareholders. More information will
be included in the Notice of Meeting, which will be published
on our Website in due course.
As we report in the Corporate Governance section of this report,
we have created a new Nominations and Remuneration
Committee. We formerly dealt with these matters separately, but
the Board considered that there were many issues that were
common to both, and quality and efficiency of reporting would
be improved by bringing the disciplines together. By regularly
questioning the composition and processes of the Board and its
committees, we ensure they provide apposite guidance and
support to the management team, as well as effective Corporate
Governance for the Company.
Indeed, in relation to the composition of the Board and its
committees, the Non-executive Directors – Peter Tan, Russ Shaw
and Chris Burke – who joined Dialog recently have become
increasingly active participants in Board meetings, and each also is
a member of one of our committees. This is very pleasing to me
and is, I know, much appreciated by our Chief Executive Officer,
Dr Jalal Bagherli, and his team.
As you will read in Jalal’s review that follows, the Board sees 2008
as a year of opportunity for Dialog to demonstrate sustainable
growth and attain profitability. His confidence in the Company’s
ability to achieve this, of course subject to the wider uncertainties
in the world economy, is very encouraging.
Greg Reyes
Chairman
The most pleasing aspect
has been the steady increase
in gross margin throughout
2007, from just under 20%
in the first quarter of the
year to just over 40% in
the fourth quarter.
