  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
Nothing succeeds like success and we are convinced about
Dialog’s potential to pursue a number of higher-growth
opportunities in the mobile phone, consumer electronics and
automotive systems markets. Our excellence in engineering
mixed-signal chips and established relationships with a number
of world-class customers led to an 86% growth in our top line.
Equally encouraging, Dialog achieved full year profitability for
the first time since the year 2000 and has now recorded five
consecutive quarters of profitability. This growth was fully
funded by our own resources while growing our cash balance.
Clearly we have a lot more work to do to achieve our medium
range growth and profitability targets, but our 2008 results
demonstrate the Company’s progress in executing to its chosen
strategy. With improved gross margins in every quarter of 2008,
we finished up over five percentage points for the full year at
38.7% and attained 42.1% in the fourth quarter. This is a
particularly impressive achievement given the tougher economic
climate during the year and the ever increasing pricing pressure
we see from customers.
I am not satisfied with the development of our share price in a
year where we had high growth and performed ahead of our
competitors. My gratitude goes to our Shareholders who have
remained faithful to us despite this less than pleasant share price
development. I am sure that our consistent orientation towards
profitable growth is going to increase the Shareholder value in
the longer run.
We made significant progress in addressing the challenges
highlighted in the past year’s report:
 Improving our cost platform;
 Diversifying our revenue;
 Focusing our products and sales on higher-growth markets; and
 Strengthening our management and skill base.
With the completed transition to a fabless semiconductor
model for fabrication, packaging and test operations using
manufacturing partners in Asia, our cost platform was significantly
improved. We now have a truly scalable business platform to build
further growth without major capital expenditure and at the
same time protecting ourselves in this economic downturn
against “under utilisation” costs of such equipment.
Additionally, we have set up a manufacturing support centre
in Taiwan with Dialog engineers embedded within our
manufacturing partners facilities. We believe that maintaining
a tight working relationship with our subcontractors will help
achieve high yields and maintain high levels of production quality
during the steep volume ramps experienced with new products
developed for our largest customers.
We took steps in simplifying and improving our supply chain
logistics. With further upgrading of our IT systems to improve our
planning and inventory management, we can continue to scale
the revenue, while maintaining our operational cost ratios at best
in class industry benchmarks
The year 2008 was one of rapid growth and improving financial
performance. During the first half, we experienced the seasonally
lower revenue – as we had forecasted. In the second half, we saw
increasing revenue from our wireless products. This was driven by
the success of our 3G/HSPA integrated power management and
audio products. We have been successful in diversifying our
revenue and expanded our cellular customer base to six customers,
as the trend for higher data rates in cell phones accelerated.
Additionally, the second half of the year saw the adoption of
our solutions by leading Smartphone manufacturers, with volume
production already in a popular model sold today. Despite the
forecasted contraction of the cellular industry, we are encouraged
as 3G/HSPA and Smartphones are the highest forecasted growth
sectors of the cellular industry for 2009.
Despite strong economic
headwinds, 2008 was an excellent
year for growth in sales and
proﬁtability for Dialog. Our Board
and the executive team focused on
delivering on the long-term strategy
of leveraging Power Management
as our core expertise in the growing
personal mobile products market.
The Company has a stronger
balance sheet and we are now
moving forward with conﬁdence
for continued proﬁtable growth
in the years ahead. Dialog’s low power, highly integrated, mixed-
signal CMOS ICs for personal mobile devices,
including wireless handsets, extend battery
life, create high quality audio and produce
brighter, crisper image displays.Today, over
700 million 2.5G, 3G, GPRS and CDMA
handsets contain Dialog devices.
By matching our own
innovation to the needs
of another, we produced
an award winner and
could have a signiﬁcant
impact in one of the
world’ s largest
global markets
SmartXtend™ technology
allows the main displays of
mobile devices – particularly
those offering W-QVGA
and QVGA resolution – to
utilise passive matrix OLED
displays rather than LCD
or active matrix OLEDs.
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008   Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
Our rapid development of highly integrated power management
devices for hand-held consumer multimedia applications, helped
expand revenue in what is a growth market for Dialog. We expect
to see more designs in this market to enter into production in
2009 and thereby further diversify the number of platforms we
derive revenue from.
We have made good progress transitioning to a more balanced
portfolio of Application Specific Standard Products versus
customised ASIC products – with 33% standard products by year
end. This allows us to sell the same product to multiple customers
which should further increase our profitability. It also provides us
access to emerging high growth markets, for example netbooks
and other personal portable devices, further expanding the
addressable market for Dialog technology. Through a focused
R&D approach, in 2008 we have seen the first results of our
investments in advanced low power audio and highly
configurable system power management technology and we
plan to launch additional market beating products in 2009.
We recently introduced our highly innovative SmartXtend™
technology for passive matrix OLED displays, with our first
production products scheduled for the second half of 2009.
This technology is continuing to gain good attention with major
cell phone manufacturers. In combination with solutions for
other ultra low power display technologies such as MEMS and
electronic paper displays, this new range of products will provide
Dialog with additional areas for revenue generation in the
important cell phone market.
Whilst the economic and market conditions in the second half of
2008 meant that we saw a reduction in our automotive revenues,
we are confident in our potential for growth in this segment over
the longer term as the automotive market recovers. Our portfolio
of automotive and industrial products, which covers highly
integrated smart motor controllers and intelligent lighting control
products, has continued to expand as we develop new products
through customer funded engagements.
We attracted leading industry talent and expertise to the Company
in 2008, particularly in our design, application engineering,
product marketing, sales and global manufacturing teams.
We firmly believe that this will improve our ability to deliver further
profitable growth. In the second half of the year, we opened
Dialog’s new sales and engineering support office in Korea as we
anticipate an increased revenue stream from this region.
Additionally, we expanded our executive team with the creation
of a new position for global strategy and business development.
In 2008 we relaunched our corporate website in line with our
new corporate identity, introduced with last year’s report. This
has helped align our appearance and business values with the
confident position we hold in the markets we serve.
My sincere thanks to all Dialog employees who have shown
innovation, great resilience as well as dedication and loyalty
throughout a very challenging yet satisfying year.
In 2009 we aim to:
 Continue to develop and market an expanded portfolio of
Application Specific Standard Products to address a broader
customer base in high growth markets;
 Leverage our competitive advantage in power management,
advanced audio and high voltage mixed-signal capabilities
through focused R&D, to develop best in class products;
 Increase our sales, marketing and technical support to
customers worldwide, particularly in North America and
Asia; and
 Optimise our operating platform and increase efficiencies by
taking advantage of advanced Information Management
Systems for planning, logistics and sales operations.
Amidst a time of great uncertainty for our industry and
customers, we will continue to strive to create sustainable
Shareholder value for Dialog – your Company. We expect that
Dialog will buck industry trends in 2009 and achieve growth and
perform in excess of our competitors.
In conclusion, let me once again affirm that I remain confident
in our future.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
