 6 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Chairman’s statement
Section 1 | Overview
Dear Shareholders,
In 2009, Dialog once again grew at an impressive level and
mastered difficult situations. We successfully navigated through
a year of worldwide economic downturn, and what was an
extremely testing time for our industry.
Across all financial fronts, Dialog performed and grew profitably
at a rate ahead of the closest peers that we track, and the
industry as a whole.
A key event in 2009 was the successful equity placing in
September 2009 which raised net proceeds of US$59.7 million.
This provides Dialog with significant capital with which to
make strategic investments and accelerate the development
of the Company.
We substantially increased our trading liquidity, very often now
seeing more than one million shares traded on a daily basis. This
increase in liquidity, the strong financial performance reported
each quarter, along with the equity offering were instrumental
in attracting new high-calibre institutional investors to our
Shareholder base. All of this translated into significant share
value creation with the share price up more than 11 times
from its 2009 opening level.
As the economic climate has improved over the past 12 months,
Dialog has sought to position itself by developing key
technologies and supplying major customers in the portable
Power Management market. However, the challenge of
diversifying both our product base and addressable market is a
journey which we will seek to progress during the coming year.
Many employees participate in the success of Dialog through
our stock Option Programme and the Long Term Incentive
Programmes (which we have in place for the management team).
The Board remains committed to providing employees with all
the support necessary in terms of performance-based rewards
that harmonise the interest of the Company with that of its
Shareholders. These instruments are appropriate to maintain
Dialog’s attractiveness as an employer in this highly competitive
market for specialists.
The Board wishes to pay tribute to the management, who have
delivered this tremendous performance while overcoming new
challenges and developing further as a team.
Finally, we have confirmed our excellent position in the market
and the outlook is very positive. I would like to thank you for your
trust in us and hope that you will continue to accompany us on
our journey.
We are looking forward to another year of progress.
Greg Reyes
Chairman
