 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
Leading the industry – 2009 was a
truly spectacular year and a year to
remember for Dialog, and I believe a
major turning point in our more than
10-year history as a public company.
Dialog’s Board and executive team focused its efforts to solidify
our position as a leading Power Management IC provider to
industry leaders in smartphones and portable media devices while
delivering strong revenue and profitability growth through the
industry downturn. We also reinforced our customer relationships
and strengthened our balance sheet while our Company’s stock
price and market valuation appreciated more than 1,100%.
Despite the economic downturn, in 2009 we reached and in
some cases exceeded all the important strategic and economic
goals which we had set, thereby establishing the basis for the
further growth of Dialog. While in 2009, the semiconductor
industry, according to analysts, declined 12%, we delivered an
impressive 34.5% increase in revenue and, with the close of the
last quarter, recorded nine successive quarters of profitability.
Our gross margin improved 6.2 percentage points for the full
year to 44.9%. In addition, our net income margin, increased
by 10.8 percentage points to 15.0%. This increase is particularly
noteworthy given the continued investments we made in our
R&D activities, including increasing our engineering, sales and
marketing headcount. This positive business performance reaffirms
our determination to continue to execute on our chosen strategy.
One year ago I was dissatisfied with our share price development.
Today I am extremely pleased that 2009 saw us increasing our
share price from €0.66 at the start of the year to close the year at
€7.63, an appreciation of more than 1,100%, catching up with
the underlying performance of the Company.
Following a long-standing commitment to Dialog, Apax
Partners LLP – the global private equity advisory firm that led the
leveraged buyout of the Company in 1998 – placed its remaining
shareholding of Dialog with quality institutional investors. Apax’s
contribution over the past 11 years has been very important
to our development and growth and on behalf of Dialog’s
management and its Board, I would like to thank Apax Partners.
In September we completed an international equity offering
and issued 12 million new shares, raising net proceeds of
US$59.7 million. The shares were placed with tier 1 institutional
investors, following a very successful roadshow. We now have
a healthy balance sheet with US$123.1 million in cash, allowing
us to fund our foreseeable future growth. In addition, we plan to
expand our engineering and technical support teams, particularly
in the US and Asia, and acquire complementary technology and
intellectual property.
Already in early 2010, we have demonstrated the first use of
these proceeds when we recently acquired specific Power
Management technology assets, intellectual property rights and
an employee team located in Munich from Diodes Zetex Gmbh.
Small acquisitions like this and IP licensing of complementary
technology will allow us to further differentiate our products
and maintain our leadership.
We experienced an increase in the trading volume of our shares,
where the average daily volume traded in the last quarter has
increased to 1,072,000 shares – more than six times of that a
ear ago. This has helped to make Dialog an attractive investment
for the larger European institutional funds, many of whom we
saw take a recent position in Dialog. The increase in our market
capitalisation and liquidity led us to being admitted in the second
half of the year to the important German TecDAX stock index –
another important milestone for our Company.
Diversification of our revenue sources continues as a strategic
initiative for Dialog as it enhances financial stability of the
Company. We are achieving this by continuously expanding our
customer base – now more than 10 within the cellphone space
and selling a broader base of standard products. We have taken
far-reaching steps towards this in 2009 where we launched three Accelerating the
transition
Smartphones: 2009 saw the rise in adoption of smartphones, with Dialog’s
Power Management technologies used by leading smartphone manufacturers.
Dialog’s success is based on providing innovative and differentiating
technologies to extend the battery lifetime and user experience. 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
product families that will provide the basis to accelerate
further diversification. These include a programmable Power
Management device which revolutionises the way analogue
designers can now design their system, our first stand-alone
Audio IC, which sets a competitive benchmark in the industry for
low power consumption. Additionally, to support the increasingly
popular Intel
®
Atom™ micro processors, we provide very high
integrated Power Management companion devices and already
have announced a strategic partnership with Harman Becker who
will use our devices in their automotive infotainment platforms.
It was a difficult year for our Automotive and Industrial segment,
with the global crisis within the automotive industry affecting
sharply our automotive revenue early in the year. However, a
pickup was seen late in the year where our shipments recovered
to near historical levels. The transition to energy saving lighting,
including LEDs, is providing an opportunity for Dialog to further
build on our existing lighting business. To capitalise on this
opportunity, during the year we announced a joint development
centre in Austria with Tridonic Atco – a leader in lighting.
Underpinning our success was an exceptional performance by
the whole team at Dialog who responded magnificently to the
opportunities and challenges of 2009, and to whom I offer my
sincere thanks. At the same time, I would like to also thank our
customers and business partners for their long-standing loyalty
and the trust they put in us. The same applies to our
Shareholders, as we strive to continue to deliver sustainable
shareholder value.
The economic crisis which we are all coming through is bringing
us not only tremendous challenges but also major opportunities.
As a leader in Power Management integrated technology,
we’re now a highly respected partner worldwide when it comes
to enhancing the battery efficiency of portable devices. We see
enormous long-term growth prospects opening up for us in these
fields as energy efficiency becomes of ever increasing importance
to our society.
In 2010 we aim to achieve:
 continued profitable revenue growth driven by market share
gain in Power Management and Audio ICs especially within
the smartphone and portable media device market;
 advanced innovation with our continuing success based on
two key factors: a sharp focus on customers and a winning
product portfolio based on a solid road map for the future;
 volume production of our passive matrix OLED IC display
technology together with our display module partners,
offering superior performance and a more energy efficient
solution than incumbent displays today; and
 continued diversification of our customer and product base
in both portable and other industrial markets through both
organic development and inorganic activities – including
complementary technology-based acquisitions.
We concluded the year by winning the prestigious Global
Semiconductors Association inaugural EMEA Leadership Council
Award, the Elektra Company of the Year and Elektra Fabless
Semiconductor Supplier of the Year Awards. This is a strong
testament from the semiconductor industry to our core
technologies, and the strength of the newly invigorated Dialog, for
the Company as a whole to be acknowledged publicly in this way.
As we pursue our long-term corporate strategy, our financial
and operational targets are clearly defined where we aim for
continued growth ahead of the industry and our closest peers.
We will continue to provide transparency regarding current
performance, future opportunities and strategies in
our communication.
This is truly an exciting time to be leading such a dynamic company,
and I am confident in the continued future success of Dialog.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
Layout of a Dialog Power Management Chip.
Global Semiconductor Association (GSA) Award
presented to Dialog Semiconductor at US Silicon
Valley event in December 2009.
