 06  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Chairman’s statement
Section 1 | Overview
2010 has been another  
positive year for Dialog 
Semiconductor Plc. We have 
now achieved 13 quarters  
of consecutive growth and  
year-on-year revenue growth  
of 36%.
Our balance sheet is strong with year-end  
cash at US$158 million. The stock price has 
risen 122% this year and by 26 times over the 
past two years. Share liquidity has continued  
to improve significantly throughout the year 
with an average 985,000 shares traded daily 
compared to 510,000 shares in 2009.
The Company continues to focus on deeper 
and broader relationships with existing 
customers meaning more semiconductor 
content sold into a broader range of customer 
applications and at the same time bringing  
new customers on board. We would expect  
to see the results of this progress more clearly 
manifest in the results for next year and beyond.
The acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor B.V.  
is in keeping with this strategy, giving the 
Company access to new customers and 
enhancing our product offering through  
new but complementary technology.
The Board has strengthened the management 
team. This has been done with key hires of 
Martin Powell, VP of Human Resources and 
Andrew Austin as VP of Sales. The Board will 
continue to look for the appointment of new 
top talent to support the significant growth  
of the Company and to ensure a management 
team and structure of a Company with a  
€1 billion plus market capitalisation.
The Board will continue to support the 
management team and employees, who  
have delivered these results in such uncertain 
economic times, through share and bonus 
schemes which will continue to incentivise 
them to achieve first-class results and ensure 
that they share fairly in the rewards generated 
for shareholders (or not, if that be the case). 
Indeed, the Company operates in a volatile  
and uncertain market and the successes  
of the recent past are no guarantee of future 
performance. Despite this note of caution the 
Board and management team are confident 
about the future and thank you for your 
continued support.
Greg Reyes 
Chairman
