 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  13
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
Maintaining leadership –  
2010 was a very successful  
year for Dialog. We reported 
record revenue and profitability 
and executed our product 
strategy to expand our market 
share in power management 
ICs at major global customers. 
Dialog’s Board and executive team strived  
to continue the success of recent years and 
believe 2010 is testimony to the market 
leadership position they now enjoy. Dialog once 
again outperformed the semiconductor market 
and continued to gain market share against its 
peers. Dialog is well prepared and positioned  
to take advantage of the market opportunities 
unfolding for the growing market of personal 
portable devices as mobile connectivity 
becomes more prevalent in our society.
In 2010, we grew our revenue at an impressive 
36%. This was our third successive year of 
growth above 30%. More importantly, for  
three years we have shown a track record of 
quarterly year-over-year revenue growth –  
a unique achievement in our industry. Our 
profitability metrics also improved as our 
operating expenses were tightly managed.
We continue to generate cash from our 
business and manage our investments very 
carefully. 2010 saw our cash balance increase 
by US$35 million to US$158 million. This will 
help to ensure we are sufficiently funded  
to fuel both our organic and inorganic future 
growth. In addition, we plan to continue our 
strategy to acquire or license complementary 
technology and intellectual property. An 
example in 2010 was the acquisition of the 
Power Management assets from Diodes Zetex 
GmbH. As part of this transaction, a design 
team was also transferred to Dialog. This 
technology has already been successfully 
developed and integrated in a new family  
of power management ICs which we recently 
demonstrated to our customers. 
We have continued to execute on our strategy 
to strengthen technology leadership and in 
February 2011 we acquired SiTel Semiconductor 
B.V., a leader in short-range wireless, digital 
cordless and VOIP technology. As short-range 
wireless technologies are becoming more 
prevalent within our society in a broad range  
of consumer, medical and internet connected 
devices, this represents an exciting new 
expansion area into new adjacent portable 
markets for Dialog. We welcome this new team 
to Dialog and look forward to their positive 
contribution to our continued revenue growth, 
strategic customer diversity and a broader 
product portfolio.
Despite a challenging supply chain situation in 
2010, Dialog was commended by many of its 
major customers for its operational excellence 
in supporting them with on-time deliveries.
For the benefit of our Shareholders, I am 
extremely pleased that 2010 saw us increasing 
our share price from €7.63 at the start of the 
year to close the year at €17.03, an appreciation 
of more than 120%. During 2010, the liquidity  
in our shares increased to a daily average of just 
under one million shares, increasing nearly two 
times over that in 2009. Throughout the year 
through many one-to-one meetings with 
investors, and attendance at both European and 
US conferences, we have focused our investment 
relations efforts on maintaining our relations with 
our existing Shareholders and attracting new 
European and US institutional funds as long-term 
Shareholders of Dialog. Analyst coverage in 
Dialog has also improved with currently seven 
sell side analysts covering our stock.
We have continued to successfully execute  
our growth strategy this year, both extending 
our product portfolio and extending our reach 
into new customers and new growth markets. 
Within the wireless segment, our design win 
success momentum within portable devices has 
continued in 2010, including major design wins 
not only in Smartphones but also within Tablet 
PCs, MP3 players and other portable devices. 
We view the Tablet PC market, which has 
emerged strongly in 2010, as an additive  
and exciting market to Smartphones and one 
which fits perfectly with our expanding  
product portfolio.
Expansion of our portfolio to include more 
standard products has also continued in 2010 
with our launch of new standard product 
families. These launches have included a new 
Intel
®
 Atom™ companion device for the  
latest Atom E6xx series as well as a second 
generation of configurable power management 
ICs. We have also expanded the industry’s 
lowest power audio codec suite of products 
and developed an exciting industry-first 
“2D-3D” video conversion IC for Tablet PCs  
and Smartphones. These products map closely 
with both the prevailing consumer and 
manufacturer demands and provide us with a 
platform for continued future revenue growth.
Our SmartXtend™ passive matrix OLED 
Developments is now ready for industry 
adoption in 2011 within the portable device 
and cellphone markets. The characteristics of 
transparency and flexible displays are proving 
to be strong differentiators for early adopter 
cellphone customers who we are engaging 
with. I remain convinced that our low-energy 
display systems products such as OLED and 
2D-3D converter will be a future driver for 
revenue for Dialog.
Diverse ideas through collaboration 
across the engineering community 14  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
facilities to allow our growth to continue.  
This included moving our Edinburgh design 
centre and Santa Clara office to new upgraded 
locations as well as expansion at our Munich 
design centre. We have also recently started  
a major renovation programme at our 
headquarter offices in Nabern-teck, which will 
allow expanded and modernised work space 
for the next few years to keep pace with 
Company growth. 
We concluded the year with prestigious 
recognition by winning the Global 
Semiconductors Association Outstanding 
European Company Award for the second year 
running, and remain one of the fastest growing 
public semiconductor companies in our field. 
I am fully aware that the success which we 
have achieved in 2010 would not have been 
possible without the unwavering support and 
commitment of all our employees. For this 
unparalleled commitment to the Company, 
they have earned my sincere gratitude. 
Furthermore, I would like to also thank our 
customers, business partners and Shareholders 
for their long-standing loyalty, trust and the 
belief they place in us.
I view this outstanding performance in 2010 as 
both an incentive and an obligation to continue 
our ongoing success story and I am confident 
in the future success of Dialog.
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s review continued
Section 2 | Business review
2010 also saw the recovery of our Automotive 
and Industrial segment with revenues reaching 
a record high. During the year, we were also 
successful in adding a new Japanese motor 
controller customer. The transition to increasing 
use of energy-saving lighting, including LEDs, 
is also providing an exciting opportunity for 
Dialog to further build on its existing lighting 
business for the future. 
I was greatly saddened by the recent death  
at the end of October of a member of our 
management team, Manoj Thanigasalam.  
He was a personal friend and colleague for 
more than 20 years, having worked together 
since the early days in our careers. Manoj is 
greatly missed by the other members of the 
executive team, along with many other 
colleagues and friends that he had across the 
Company and beyond. The Board of Directors, 
the management team and everyone in our 
Company would like to express to his family 
our sincere condolences at their loss.
The consumer demand for mobile connectivity 
through handheld devices is providing Dialog 
with a tremendous market opportunity.  
As a leader in power management integrated 
technology, we’re now a highly-respected 
partner worldwide when it comes to enhancing 
the battery efficiency of portable devices. We 
see long-term growth prospects opening up for 
us in these fields as energy efficiency becomes 
of ever-increasing importance to our society.
The positive business performance reaffirms  
our determination to continue to execute  
the strategy of Dialog where in 2011 we  
aim to achieve:
 ● Continued profitable revenue growth  
driven by market share gain with power 
management and audio ICs especially 
within the Smartphone, Tablet PC and 
portable media device market.
 ● Superior innovation and new standard 
product releases across our business 
segments, including deeper engagement 
within our current and emerging customers 
for high-volume custom products.
 ● Success in PM OLED where together with 
our early cellphone adoptor customers  
aim to bring PM OLED to volume production 
and offer the market new innovative  
display features.
 ● Continued diversification of our customer 
and product base in both portable and 
other industrial markets through both 
organic development and inorganic 
activities – including complementary 
technology-based acquisitions.
To support our growing organisation and 
business, during 2010 we added two new 
members to our executive management team. 
Andrew Austin joined as VP Sales having had  
a successful career at Texas Instruments. 
Additionally, Martin Powell joined as VP Human 
Resources after holding senior executive HR 
roles in the technology industry including 
General Electric (GE) and DELL in his career.
Having completed a major relocation for our 
Swindon facility last year, we have invested  
in major expansion and upgrade of our other 
Capturing Dialog’s teamwork spirit
Manoj Thanigasalam
It is with great sadness that we report the 
passing of Manoj Thanigasalam, a member  
of the Dialog executive management team. 
Manoj died, aged 47, following complications 
from heart surgery on 31 October 2010. He 
leaves behind a wife and two young children.
Manoj was born on 7 November 1963 in  
Sri Lanka. As a young boy he moved with  
his family to the UK where his fascination  
with gadgets and how things worked led  
him to graduate with a degree in physics and 
electronics from Bradford University. Destined  
for a career in the semiconductor industry, 
Manoj joined Philips and from there he 
progressed through the industry working for a 
range of prestigious semiconductor companies 
including Texas Instruments, ARM and Sony.  
In March 2006 Manoj joined Dialog as Vice 
President and General Manager for our Display 
Systems business unit having previously worked 
as VP Business Development at ZBD, a company 
specialising in bistable LCD display technology.
During his distinguished career in the 
semiconductor business, Manoj touched many 
lives and made a great number of close friends 
throughout the whole industry. Manoj is sorely 
missed by all, however his passion for technology 
lives on through us all at Dialog as we build on 
the foundation born from his relentless hard 
work and great dedication for the Display 
Systems business as we strive to build a lasting 
legacy that we can all be proud of.
