 13
Chief Executive’s review
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
As we enter into the first half of 2012, it is worth 
taking a look at the progress of Dialog in the last year. 
As reported in our financial results, once again Dialog 
continued to perform very strongly on the top line  
with growth of 78% year-on-year, outpacing our 
competitors worldwide, in a backdrop of semiconductor 
industry growth of 2-3%. This constitutes our fourth 
consecutive year of profitable and rapid growth, 
something that our Board, our management team and 
all our employees have contributed to and are justly 
proud of. The impressive growth in 2011 was delivered 
partly through our organic growth and partly through 
the acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor in Q1 2011, 
more of which I will discuss later in this letter.
However, as it is commonly known, 2011 at a  
macro level was dominated by world macroeconomy 
and financial crisis issues carried over from 2010, 
compounded by some tragic natural disasters in  
Japan and Thailand. The impact of all this on the 
semiconductor industry, and supply chain in particular, 
was insufficient manufacturing investment, periodic 
uncertainty about capacity and shortage of certain  
key essential raw materials and packaging components. 
The effect of increasing costs in energy, raw material 
and precious metals such as gold, together with the 
tightness in the supply chain, had the undesirable 
effect of impacting the cost base of our products and 
thereby reducing our gross operating margins as a 
percentage of revenue, relative to 2010. As we enter 
2012, gross margin recovery is now an area where our 
management team is currently focused on to bring 
about improvements through cost reductions and 
capacity planning as well as positioning the Company 
to benefit from the prospects of a more balanced 
supply and demand situation with the manufacturing 
subcontractors in 2012.
Dialog market performance in 2011 was driven by the 
major success of our lead customers in the smartphone 
and tablet PC global markets. This market area is 
expected to continue to perform strongly for several 
years as a wider range of smartphones and tablets 
from different vendors are launched into the market.  
In line with our belief in the secular growth trends  
of personal portable connected devices, we have 
positioned the Company to develop the right 
technologies such as system power management,  
low power audio, low power display drivers and others 
to benefit from this ongoing growth and expansion. 
We believe that beyond the boom in media players, 
smartphones, tablets and e-books there will be other 
emerging portable devices such as ultra-books,  
as well as personal medical, fitness and sport handheld 
equipment that will drive further growth for years  
to come. Following on from this we believe there  
will be additional capabilities that Dialog must  
develop or acquire to ensure it maintains its growing 
leadership in the mixed signal semiconductor market 
for mobile devices.
In light of the above, we believe competencies 
in short-range connectivity is a key addition to 
our portfolio of technology, allowing Dialog’s 
DR JALAL BAGHERLI
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | Section 2 | Business review
Going forward into 2012 and beyond, our focus will 
remain on scaling our operation to tackle our next 
mid-term target of US$ 1billion turnover with an 
increasing portfolio of mixed signal low power products 
for portable devices. Diversification of our product 
portfolio and key customer base with a focus on 
regional growth in Asia form the main pillars of 
our strategy.
Achieving a larger scale per se, whilst very desirable, 
is not a sufficient goal by itself. We believe we should 
also turn our attention to our social obligations and 
play our part as good corporate citizens. This means 
that we will be fine-tuning and augmenting our 
policies and actions with a conscious eye on the  
impact on the environment, sustainability and positive 
social contribution. 
Of course, our employees and management team 
remain the key essential ingredients of success  
at Dialog and the Company will continue to invest  
in their development and training, as well as career 
development and succession planning, to ensure  
our future is secured.
I look forward to the challenges of the year 2012 and 
remain confident of Dialog’s prospects for continuing 
growth and outperformance.
DR JALAL BAGHERLI
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
participation in the upcoming opportunities in new and 
emerging standards and applications for transmitting 
data within a short range between, for example, 
a smartphone device and other client devices or  
smart sensor networks. In February 2011, we acquired 
SiTel Semiconductor, a fabless semiconductor company, 
based in The Netherlands and owned by a private 
equity fund in the UK. We have been working hard 
together as a team to achieve a fast and high-quality 
integration of this company into Dialog, while 
maintaining the integrity and continuity of operational 
support for our customers. In addition to our established 
customer base, we have welcomed new customers 
from SiTel to our list, including Panasonic, Gigaset, 
Microsoft and Plantronics amongst others. We expect 
to increasingly benefit from this acquisition with 
cross-selling opportunities of Dialog low power 
products into the new customer base.
We are very pleased with our first acquisition, the 
quality of the team and its fit within Dialog. We have 
been able to accelerate and release several new 
products which were already in the R&D pipeline 
before the acquisition, such as a new generation of 
digital cordless chips, low power VoIP products, as well 
as SmartPulse™ technology enabling smart home sensor 
networks. Going forward, the strategic positioning of 
the R&D will increasingly target short-range wireless 
emerging standards which could include low energy 
bluetooth and wifi direct amongst others.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Dialog has established application 
laboratories at our global sites  
to allow our field application 
engineers to work closely with  
its customers during the critical 
design-in phase of our products.
Test development is performed in Nabern Germany, 
reproducing the same test environment and handling 
interfaces that are used by our offshore test subcontractors.
