 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
As such, innovation continues to be the 
lifeblood of our Company. Our power 
management IC, featuring a new multiphase 
buck converter for powering quad-core 
application processors, was sampled to key 
customers in 2012. It meets the more complex 
power management needs of next generation 
smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™. 
In due course, we believe there will be 
additional technical capabilities that Dialog must 
develop or acquire to ensure it maintains its 
strengths in the mixed signal semiconductor 
market for portable devices. This was one of the 
main reasons for our successful US$201 million 
convertible bond issue in March 2012.
Dialog is also keeping pace with technology  
and in 2013, together with our foundry 
partners, will start its transition to a smaller 
geometry, 130 nanometer manufacturing 
process that will yield more chips per wafer.  
As a fabless semiconductor company, we’ve 
forged close partnerships with a number of 
foundries to enable us to integrate more analog, 
digital and high voltage components, including 
Field Effect Transistors (FETs) into a smaller form 
factor, single chip power management solutions.  
This will help to increase the talk time of 
portable devices while meeting the consumers’ 
desire of faster charging. 
Dialog continues to seek the brightest and the 
best and has significantly increased its employee 
base to a total of 806 in Asia, the US and 
Europe; during the last quarter of 2012 we 
opened two new design centres in Turkey  
and Italy to attract further talent.
Dear Shareholders,
Dialog continued to perform very strongly in 
2012 with top-line growth of 47% year-on-year, 
against a backdrop of broadly flat global 
semiconductor industry revenue according to 
industry analysts. This is our fifth successive  
year of profitable and rapid growth. 
At the same time, in 2012, the Company has 
improved its gross operating margin quarter on 
quarter as a percentage of revenue to 37.8% over 
the last four quarters by focusing on product 
yield improvements, supply chain negotiations 
and material cost reductions. Continued margin 
improvement remains a key focus.
Dialog’s financial performance in 2012 was 
driven by success in the smartphone and  
tablet sectors. Beyond the boom in 
smartphones, tablets, e-books and media 
players, we expect to see the emergence of 
other portable devices, such as next generation 
convertible Ultrabooks™ that can be used as  
a tablet or laptop. Ultrabooks™ are closer in 
architecture to smartphones and tablets than 
PCs, in terms of their battery and energy 
requirements, creating opportunities for  
Dialog’s power management technologies.
We’re also expanding into new sectors. Using 
our DECT technology, Dialog is able to support 
reliable, interference-free wireless signals to 
cordless phones and headsets, microphones  
and gaming controllers in real time with no 
buffering, achieving ceiling to cellar reach. 
Additionally our Ultra Low Energy (ULE) DECT 
ICs are increasingly used in home automation 
applications that can also be controlled over  
the cloud from your smartphone or tablet. This 
expertise in short-range wireless connectivity is 
enabling us to develop new ICs for transmitting 
data between personal devices, smartphones 
and tablets, and we already have some exciting 
new products in development.
Chief Executive’s review
From left: 
Dialog has a strategy of continuous innovation, 
focusing on new power-saving solutions and design 
methodologies in the personal portable device 
market, while partnering with our foundries on 
advanced production processes.
Dr Jalal Bagherli, Dialog Semiconductor CEO, with 
Maria Marced, President of TSMC Europe, one of 
Dialog’s key partners with whom the Company 
is co-operating on state-of-the-art 0.13 micron 
bipolar-CMOS-DMIS (BCD) technology.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer  
 15
We have also expanded our global footprint  
by establishing an Asian headquarters function 
in Taipei in April 2012. This complements our 
existing manufacturing engineering support 
presence in Taiwan, and is intended to facilitate 
engagement with major new customers  
locally and is a stepping stone for our future 
growth ambitions to address the fast-growing 
smartphone market in China, which we expect 
to nearly double to more than 450 million units 
in 2013.
Dialog should play its part as good corporate 
citizens. We operate with a conscious eye on 
minimising our impact on the environment and 
making a positive contribution to society. This 
not only reduces operating costs, by minimising 
energy and raw material wastage, but also helps 
us to make Dialog a great place to work. 
I look forward to the challenges of 2013, 
focusing in particular on the opportunities  
for our technologies in next generation 
smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™, 
together with the exciting growth opportunity 
to bring our technology into smartphones  
for China. I remain confident of Dialog’s 
prospects for continuing profitable growth  
as we pursue our aspirations to reach and 
surpass US$1 billion in annual revenues.
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Chief Executive Officer
From left: 
SmartPulse is Dialog’s wireless sensor network 
connectivity solution, based on the Ultra Low Energy 
DECT standard for home automation applications.
Dialog opened its new Asian headquarters  
in Taipei in 2012 to meet the needs of our  
growing customer base in the region.
Above: 
Dialog replaces discrete power management 
components with highly integrated, single-chip 
solutions that provide design simplicity, reduce 
energy usage, save board space for other 
components and lower the overall bill of materials.
