  
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview 06
Dialog’s management team have aspirations 
to achieve a mid-term goal of over US$1 billion 
in annual revenues. Despite continued economic 
uncertainty Dialog continues to see strong 
demand for its technologies and is making  
good progress to this target.
The Company continues to put in place the 
necessary infrastructure to support high levels 
of growth on a global basis. In this context 
there is considerable competition for the top 
talent that Dialog needs to achieve these goals. 
Accordingly, ever mindful of its needs to be 
corporate governance compliant, Dialog has 
to be best-in-class in performance-driven 
remuneration schemes.
The Board recognises, with the increasing scale 
and value of the business, the importance of 
seeking to achieve best practice in corporate 
governance. This has seen a much greater focus 
for the Board in 2012 and will continue to be so 
in 2013. A review of the Corporate Governance 
statement and Directors’ remuneration report  
in this annual report, of themselves of greater 
detail and transparency over previous years,  
set out the enhanced focus in this area and  
the greater professionalism being brought  
to the subject.
Despite the troubled economic environment, 
I remain confident about the future growth 
prospects of the Company in 2013 and thank 
you for your continued support.
Greg Reyes
Chairman
2012 has been another great 
year for Dialog Semiconductor 
Plc, with revenue up 47% 
year-on-year to US$774 million.
The Company continues its strategy of 
deepening and broadening relationships with 
existing and new customers. Dialog is focusing 
on cross-selling a wider range of more complex 
power management, audio and wireless 
solutions into a broader range of portable 
computing devices. This includes high-end and 
low-end smartphones, tablets and, in the future, 
Ultrabooks™, which we view as one of the next 
growth markets for Dialog. 
People are doing more and more computing on 
the go using smartphones and tablets. Around 
700 million smartphones are believed to have 
been shipped in 2012, and this is forecast to rise 
to 1.5 billion by 2016; while tablet purchases 
are forecast to continue to snowball with unit 
shipments likely to be around 300 million 
by 2016 according to the analyst firm IDC. 
Dialog is well positioned to help its customers 
meet this market demand.
Dialog remains committed to outpacing its 
competitors – not only in terms of the level 
of innovation and quality control but also 
financially, where profitability has to be 
managed carefully, given the competing 
pressures of the price expectation of volume 
customers and supply constraints.
Chairman’s statement
From left: 
Dialog is focusing on cross-selling a wider range 
of more complex power management, audio and 
wireless solutions into a broader range of portable 
computing devices, including tablets. 
Dialog views Ultrabooks™ as one of the next 
growth markets for its technologies. 
Greg Reyes
Chairman
