 CEO’s review for the year
Despite the malaise in the financial and diamond markets, 2008
was an exciting year for DiamondCorp as we made significant
progress towards our objective of becoming a high-value,
sustainable kimberlite diamond producer.
Good progress was made with the development of our primary
asset, the Lace diamond mine, which is 74% owned by 
the company.
Key achievements and developments
Key achievements and developments during the year include:
March 2008 Inward listing on the main board of the 
JSE Limited in South Africa, under the share
code DMC in the “Basic Materials –
Diamonds & Gemstones” sector.With effect
from 31 March, the JSE became the
Company’s primary regulator. The listing on
the JSE was intended to enhance investors’
awareness of DiamondCorp and to diversify
the Company’s investor base.
April 2008 The appointment of Steve West to the
position of Head of Business Development
and Paul Sharples (former General Manager
of Lace mine) to Head of Mining.
These appointments significantly bolstered
DiamondCorp’s leadership at a time when
the industry was reported to be suffering
from skills shortages, and ensured that we
met our key operational and strategic
objectives during the year under review.
May 2008 Successful capital raising for the accelerated
development of Lace following the private
placement of 2,249,923 new ordinary shares
at an issue price of R11.59 per share on the
JSE.This placement of new shares – raising
“It has always been our intention to follow a two-phased approach in the exploitation
of the Lace mine. Operationally we are in good shape and we expect to continue to
achieve the targets that we have set.”
Rudzani Nepfumba – Recovery Supervisor
Rudzani began at Lace in June 2007 as a student metallurgist
as part of an in-service training programme, and has since
been trained in general plant operation. She was appointed
to the position of Recovery Supervisor in February 2008
under the guidance of the plant manager.
Paul Loudon
Managing Director and CEO
6
Annual Report 2008
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:53 PM  Page 6 Annual Report 2008
R26 million (£1.73 million) largely from South
African institutions – met (in part at least) an
objective of the South African listing and is
being used to finance Phase 2 at Lace.
June 2008 Connection to a second Eskom power supply
from a new power line servicing the nearby
De Beers Voorspoed mine. As a result, the
impact of power outages and load shedding
was significantly reduced in the latter half of
the year.
July 2008 Loan facility granted up to the amount of 
US$5 million by the Africa Opportunity Fund
LP, completing the funding requirements for
Phase 2.
November 2008 Placement of 4 million fully paid ordinary
shares, at a gross value of £1.8 million with
the European Islamic Investment Bank plc,
for general working capital purposes. EIIB
subsequently increased its holding in the
company, thus raising its shareholding to
26.09%, through the acquisition of shares on
the market, signifying its stated intention of
becoming a cornerstone investor in the
company.
October 2008 Successful commissioning of new vertical
spindle impact crusher for re-crush of
kimberlite.The new crusher has operated to
specification and solved earlier process
problems in this section of the recovery plant.
By year-end Significant progress with the development of
the underground project, more than a year
ahead of the original schedule by year-end.
The decline accessed the Satellite Pipe and a
ventilation drive holed through the sidewall
of the main Lace pit.
February 2009 Mining right executed for Phase 2
underground development at Lace. As all of
these issues have been discussed in the letter
to shareholders from our Chairman, my
review will focus on the operational progress
made during the year and our plans for the
Lace diamond mine.
Two-phased approach
It has always been our intention to follow a two-phased approach
in the exploitation of the Lace mine as discussed below.
• Phase 1 began with the commissioning of the 1.6 million tonne
per year Dense Media Separation (DMS) plant in 2007 to treat
3.6 million tonnes of tailings over a period of three years.The
diamonds recovered from the tailings were above average in
terms of colour and quality and, during the financial year, a total
of 803,810 tonnes of tailings were treated, for the recovery of
50,521 carats of diamonds. Recoveries, however, were lower
than anticipated due to failures in the re-crush circuit which
were not resolved until October 2008. Of the diamonds
tendered during the year, 70% were of gem quality, achieving an
average price of $53.52 per carat, with these realising total
revenue of R14.13 million (US$1.71 million). The tailings
treatment operation was suspended in January 2009 because
the rapid decline in diamond prices had made this operation
uneconomic. It is envisaged that this process may resume once
prices have recovered.
•Phase 2 comprises the development of an underground
kimberlite mine and involves the sinking of a decline into the
unmined portions of the Lace Satellite Pipe, which was
historically mined to a depth of only 50 metres and the Main
Pipe, which was partially mined to a depth of 240 metres. In view
of the success achieved in the tailings treatment operation, the
development of Phase 2 was accelerated and this decision has
proved to be prescient given the current market conditions.
Georgina Thakeng – Sorthouse Supervisor
Georgina began training as a sorter at Lace in July 2007 and,
having completed her training course, became a Sorthouse
Supervisor in August 2008. She is also involved in administrative
duties at the mine and is currently receiving in-house computer
skills training.
7
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:53 PM  Page 7 Annual Report 2008
Good progress on Phase 2
A new 4m by 4m decline is being sunk between the Lace pipes and
the existing 6m by 2.7m vertical shaft, using the mine’s own mining
fleet. This decline advanced and reached the Satellite Pipe in
November 2008, after initial progress was slowed by poor ground
conditions on the contact between the surface sediments and the
competent country rock. An initial 20,000 to 30,000 tonne bulk
sample has been extracted from the Satellite Pipe and, if the grades
allow for profitable mining at current prices, the mining of this
material will continue until the Main Pipe material is accessed in the
second half of 2009. Initial mining capacity is 1,000 tonnes per day,
rising to approximately 3,000 tonnes per day by mid-2009 when
the last of our underground mining fleet is delivered. Processing of
Satellite Pipe material will commence during April 2009, following
commissioning of a new primary and secondary crushing circuit.
The plant stability and recovery issues encountered earlier in
2008 were largely resolved by the fourth quarter.Testwork using
a vertical spindle impact crusher demonstrated that it can
successfully liberate the 2 to 3 cpht of diamonds locked up in the
re-crush stockpile and a commercial scale unit was successfully
installed and commissioned in late 2008. Commissioning of the
new primary and secondary crushing circuit commenced on
schedule in March 2009. It has been our intention from the outset
to ensure that Lace’s costs are in the lowest industry quartile.
While rising diesel prices, unplanned repairs and maintenance, and
power outages had a negative impact on costs during Phase 1,
management is confident that a combination of the new power
supply, the installation of the vertical spindle impact crusher and
the mining of higher-grade kimberlite will deliver solid operating
margins, even with current depressed diamond prices during
Phase 2.
Resource upside potential
Approximately 35 million tonnes of kimberlite have been outlined
in the Main Pipe at Lace, between 240m and 855m. Up to a
further 7 million tonnes of kimberlite exists above the 240m level
but has not been taken into account in the resource estimates
owing to the existence of old workings. Mining of these remnants
(which is expected to be high-grade coherent hypabyssal
kimberlite) will take place once access to the old workings has
been achieved. A further 3.5 million tonnes of kimberlite also
exists in the Satellite Pipe, located 30m to the west of the Main
Pipe. Historically, the Satellite Pipe yielded a lower grade than the
Main Pipe and no tonnages from this pipe have been included in
the resource estimates.
The market
The worldwide economic downturn has had a significant impact
on the diamond market, as discussed in the Chairman’s letter, with
prices received for Lace diamonds falling by 50% during the fourth
quarter. Reduced demand and lower diamond prices are expected
to continue throughout 2009, although the full impact is expected
to be somewhat cushioned for DiamondCorp because of the
depreciation of the South African rand against the dollar. Phase 2
will target higher-value kimberlite in a higher price range to the
tailings diamonds. Also, Lace has the potential to deliver sought-
after gemstones. In addition to the high quality white stones, the
Lace tailings have yielded significant numbers of fancy yellow, pink
and signature lilac stones. During June 2008, a 34.84 carat non-gem
diamond was recovered, the largest diamond to date, underlining
the potential for the pipe to deliver sizeable stones and
demonstrating the efficiency of the Lace recovery plant.
In conclusion
My thanks are extended to our board for their counsel, to our Black
Economic Empowerment (BEE) partners for their support, and to
our management and employees for their unstinting commitment
and continued efforts. I would like to formally welcome to the
DiamondCorp board Mr Robin Henshall, who joined as a 
non-executive director with effect from 14 November 2008.
Mr Henshall is a representative of EIIB and brings to the board
extensive experience of the investment banking sector.
CEO’s review (continued)
8
Thabo Mabula – Plant Foreman
Thabo worked as a DMS operator for Sonop Delwery before
he joined Lace in May 2007. He began as a DMS operator and
received further training on operating procedures and
diamond recovery processes.Thabo was promoted to Plant
Supervisor in November 2007 and was promoted again in
February 2009 to Plant Foreman.
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:53 PM  Page 8
