 Y ou will be acutely aware of the current state of the financial markets.
Mining is one of the first sectors to suffer in such a bear market and
particularly small miners, when investors question whether they have
the finance, or indeed the right projects, to stay afloat.
I will not dwell on this in my report, other than to note that our
share price has outperformed many in our peer group.This was
partially as a result of our shares being tightly held, introducing a
major new shareholder and not having to face hedge fund investor
distress or large scale redemptions. However, we also believe that
our outperformance is due to the fundamental strength of our
primary asset and the significant progress made towards bringing
the Lace Diamond Mine into full underground production more
than a year ahead of schedule.At peak production, Lace is expected
to produce more than 500,000 carats of diamonds per year.
I hope in this report that we provide shareholders with some insight
into the delivery by your Company on our objectives during the year,
and how DiamondCorp is positioned, not only to weather current
markets, but to grow and thrive in the medium to longer term.
Looking back on the 2008 financial year, I am pleased to report that
there have been several highlights, including:
• The recovery of some 50,000 carats of diamonds from the
tailings re-treatment operation;
• Continued and accelerated development of the Phase 2 Lace
Underground mine, with bulk sampling commencing from the
Satellite Pipe by the end of 2008;
• Granting of mining rights for Phase 2, providing security of tenure
for at least 20 years;
• Construction and early commissioning of the primary crushing
circuit by March 2009, ahead of schedule; and
• Raising all requisite funding for Phase 2 development, through
equity capital and a project loan.
The diamond market
The diamond market today has been severely affected by the
worldwide recession. Like the banking crisis, the speed and severity
of the collapse in rough diamond prices, which more than halved in
the latter half of the year, was not an event we expected or for
which we could plan. Diamonds, as a luxury commodity, have clearly
felt the impact of softening retail sales, with around 40% of the
global retail demand emanating from the United States. However,
the impact of the global contraction in diamond demand has been
exacerbated by two other factors – the crisis in the global banking
industry and further destocking in the diamond pipeline led by the
industry leader De Beers. In respect of the first point, credit to the
diamond cutting and polishing industry has simply evaporated with
a knock-on impact on primary demand.This is a consequence of the
withdrawal  of a major traditional lending institution with historic
ties to the trade.The second factor, the continued destocking by the
industry driver De Beers over the past five or six years, is not
entirely unrelated and has also had a significant impact on supply
2
Annual Report 2008
Chairman’s letter to shareholders
“We remain focused for the year ahead: our primary efforts will be to ensure that we
are producing from the underground operation by mid-year, and generating positive
cash flows, with costs contained within the lowest industry quartile.”
Dear Shareholders
Euan Worthington
Chairman
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:52 PM  Page 2 over perhaps a longer period and also on prices. Its stockpile has
reputedly been run down, and the expectation is that market-
related supply-demand forces will shape this sector in the future,
perhaps for the first time ever.
So, what does this mean for prices in the medium to long term?
We are pleased to note that producers have been very responsive
to the rapid change in the market and many loss-making
operations have been placed on care and maintenance and even
closed. In addition, most recent diamond discoveries (most notably
in Canada) have already been brought into production, so that
when demand recovers we believe that there will be a serious
shortfall in rough diamond supply.This change could begin within
the next two to three years.We are aware of the increasing supply
from synthetics which are playing and will continue to play an
important role in filling some of this gap, subject to energy prices.
However, for higher value stones, consumers continue to want, and
indeed demand, the real thing.
Thus, along with industry commentators, we see a widening gap
developing between diamond supply and demand. As with a
number of other commodities, when the next upturn comes there
simply is not going to be sufficient economic and immediate
production available to meet demand. Inevitably, this will lead to
upward pressure on prices.
We believe that the production of coloured and higher-grade,
higher-value stones from Lace will give us an added advantage and
we are looking forward to viewing the first output from hard rock
kimberlite in the coming months.
On the road to full scale production
Production from the tailings re-treatment operation continued
during the year, yielding 50,521 carats of diamonds, and generating
revenues of US$1,707,000 (£916,767). Pleasingly, around 70% of
the diamonds recovered were of gem quality, confirming our
expectations of what we will face when we start production from
the Main Pipe. Although the tailings re-treatment operation was
suspended at the end of 2008, because the diamond price fall had
rendered it uneconomic, its real value has been in developing and
testing the operating circuit in advance of full underground
production.The value of this cannot be underestimated.This year-
long learning curve helped us to identify and overcome teething
problems and resulted in the successful re-commissioning of the
re-crush circuit in the fourth quarter. Shareholders can also be
assured that we will bring to account the stones remaining in the
tailings dump when diamond prices rise.
Given the state of the markets, the decision in 2007 to accelerate
the development of Phase 2 of the Lace underground mine in
order to access rapidly the higher-grade kimberlite has proven
both timely and fortuitous. Good progress has been made with the
project, with the recent commencement of underground bulk
sampling from the Satellite Pipe.This will be followed by access to
the Main Pipe by mid-year. Assuming that the diamond grade of
Lace kimberlites allows us to be profitable at current prices, mining
will then commence and increase to around 3,000 tonnes per day
in the second half of 2009, reaching full production of 4,000 tonnes
per day when the vertical shaft is refurbished in 2010.
Licence to operate
A key development post year-end (on 5 February 2009) in a
process undertaken throughout 2008, was the granting of the
mining right for the Lace underground mine by the South African
Department of Minerals and Energy (DME) in terms of the Mineral
and Petroleum Resources Development Act. Our 21-year lease,
which is renewable, provides a legal tenure, a certain operating
framework and a licence to operate in the broadest sense of this
term.We have been grateful for the co-operation of the DME and
others in finalising these legalities and remain convinced that the
South African mining environment is both investor-friendly and
pragmatic.The delay in the implementation of the proposed Royalty
Bill, which would have imposed a royalty of up to 5% on diamond
revenues (with effect from this financial year), is evidence of this and
will protect and stimulate the local mining industry, both objectives
of Finance Minister Trevor Manuel that show insight and foresight.
Our relations with local communities remain good, and we are
working with our Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) partners
to ensure that the mineral wealth released from below surface, can
transform and grow into meaningful and sustainable benefits for
our communities in the longer term. Apart from job creation, the
most important primary need in the area is for education and we
are working with Sphere and Shanduka as to how we can best
deliver to meet this need.
Finally, we have had constructive interaction with the State
Diamond Trader (SDT) which is entitled, through statute, to
purchase 10% of our production at their discretion.To date, the
SDT has not acquired any of our diamonds.
3
Annual Report 2008
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:52 PM  Page 3 4
Annual Report 2008
Fully-funded to production
We were very pleased to attract the considered attention of
and investment by the European Islamic Investment Bank plc
(EIIB) into your company, as a cornerstone shareholder at a time
when robust shareholder support can be critical to a company’s
success. EIIB is now our largest shareholder and we welcome to
the board EIIB’s Head of Private Equity, Mr Robin Henshall.
Our discussions with EIIB have indicated that they are
supportive of our immediate progress, plans and longer-term
growth ambitions.
Importantly, the Company is fully-funded as a result of two share
placements (raising £3.55 million) and the raising of a project loan
of US$5 million (£2.8 million). We are particularly pleased to be
able to bring the Lace mine back into production without further
recourse to the stricken and costly financial markets.
Seeking new opportunities
We continue to review diamond projects and, in particular, those
where our development and operational team can add value.
We have talked to many potential sellers and suitors and, while
we are focused in Southern Africa, we have looked at
opportunities as far afield as West Africa, Australia and even
Canada. However, to date we have not been able to match the
value and the potential for profitability that shareholders will
gain from Lace. Consequently, after extensive reviews and due
diligence, we have not been able to consummate any deals. We
remain on the look-out as current markets provide impetus for
consolidation and favour those with capital, or access to capital,
together with the particular skill set such as ours that can
transform a project into a mine. I would also remind
shareholders that there are other known kimberlites on our
licences around Lace, which we will look to explore when free
cash flow is available.
First class team in place
We have been fortunate to attract and retain a first class team,
both at a corporate and operational level who have flawlessly
planned for Phase 2 and have delivered ahead of time and on
budget.They have built up a substantial base of trained operators,
drawn almost entirely from local communities and having honed
their skills during the tailings retreatment phase, will be able to
introduce them rapidly into the full scale mining operation.
The year ahead
We remain focused for the year ahead – our primary efforts will
be to ensure that we are producing from the underground
operation by mid-year, and generating positive cash flows, with
costs contained within the lowest industry quartile.We anticipate
achieving solid margins, even at current diamond prices and when
our operation comes into full production in 2010, we will be able
to take full advantage of the expected recovery in diamond prices.
Our vested value remains unarguable: with some 35 million tonnes
of kimberlite outlined within the Main Pipe, containing an estimated
13.8 million carats of diamonds at an average grade of 42 carats per
hundred tonnes, worth some R10 billion (£715 million) in-ground
at current prices.
We will maintain our licence to operate, acting as a responsible
citizen and fair employer while we continue to look for attractive
opportunities for growth.
Euan Worthington
Chairman
Chairman’s letter to shareholders (continued)
“We are pleased to bring the Lace mine
back into production without further
recourse to the stricken and costly
financial markets.”
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:52 PM  Page 4 Annual Report 2008
The Lace pipes with existing and proposed infrastructure
5
Main Shaft
The 6 metre by 2.7 metre vertical shaft is
currently in the process of being refurbished
with completion scheduled for 2010.
Decline portal
The sinking of the decline commenced in
January 2008 and subsequently accessed the
Satellite Pipe in late 2008. In January 2009, the
decline holed through the side wall of the main
pit to provide ventilation for the mine.
Coherent kimberlite 
The upper level kimberlite runs at a grade of 
27 cpht, while coherent grades are between 
40 and 60 cpht.
Satellite Pipe
A 20,000 to 30,000 tonne bulk sample is
currently being extracted from the Satellite Pipe
where 3.5 million tonnes of kimberlite occur.
Main Pipe
It is estimated that 35 million tonnes of
kimberlite exist between the 240 metres and
855 metres level.The Main Pipe is approximately
2.5 hectares, has been drilled to 855 metres and
remains open at depth. Drilling has shown that a
higher grade, coherent kimberlite becomes
volumetrically dominant at depth.
Pipe graphics by Solid Project
DIAMOND CORP(BM) 23-3-09  3/25/09  12:53 PM  Page 5
