 Primary Tobacco Processing
Equipment
Dickinson Legg Businesses
ollowing an exceptional performance in
2002, Dickinson Legg suffered from a 
low order intake in the early months of the
new financial year. Turnover was 18% lower at
£37.6 million and operating profit was 54% lower
at £3.2 million before exceptional charges as the
comparative period benefited from the £14 million
Samsung contract. The sales mix changed from
the previous year, the lower margin installation
sales representing a larger proportion of 
turnover. Low manufacturing activity in the 
first half of the financial period resulted in
significant under recovery of overheads.
Management restructured the business to 
lower the cost base by reducing the 
headcount by some 15%, resulting in annualised
savings of £0.4 million. The benefits of this 
action and an improvement in the order book
resulted in a much stronger financial performance
in the second half of the year, as indicated in 
the interim statement.
The new Expanded Stem System (ESS)
marketed exclusively under license from 
R J Reynolds in the United States is generating 
a number of serious enquiries. Two new 
orders valued in excess of £4 million were
received during the year, one of which was for 
an existing customer of the system. Four projects
for the High Expansion Drying (HXD) system,
jointly developed with BAT, generated sales 
in excess of £6 million to customers in Asia. 
The new high-speed cutters RC5 and RC6 
are being well received by the market 
with a number of units sold to the multinational
and independent tobacco processors.
In addition to the new products launched
in the last few years, we continue to
focus our product development on
enhancements to our
existing product range,
often in response to
feedback from our customers.
A major exercise on our range of
silos was completed in the year improving
serviceability and reducing cost.
Our spares and wear parts business – based in
Andover, Hampshire and Richmond, Virginia –
performed well albeit volumes in the United
States were marginally lower than anticipated due
to customers reducing their inventories. Several
cutters were refurbished for customers, which
generated additional spares volumes. As the
population of the new RC5 and RC6 cutters
grows, the demand for spare parts will increase.
Our Indian Joint Venture, Dickinson Fowler,
made excellent progress in the year, meeting
customers’ quality and delivery requirements
whilst increasing volumes and profits. The low
cost structure is improving the company’s overall
competitive position and providing a vehicle for
better access to the Asian market.
Following several years of high investment by
the major tobacco customers, there has been a
general slow down in the number and scale of
projects, resulting in an extremely competitive
marketplace. Dickinson Legg’s range of key
processing equipment continues to generate
opportunities at a time when our customers’
capital expenditure is constrained.
Air Drying Equipment
Spooner Industries
Spooner Industries delivered a significant
improvement in performance, increasing turnover
by 32% to £11.56 million and returning an
operating profit of £0.43 million, generating an
operating margin of 3.7%. This achievement is
more remarkable given the flat markets in which
the company has been competing against
predominantly Euro based competition when
Sterling was particularly strong.
Spooner has applied
its expertise in 
forced air convection
technology to expand into
other market sectors, supplying
custom-designed process equipment.
In addition to its traditional markets in the
paper and converting industries, Spooner
has established a position in the metals
industry, in galvanising and coil coating,
and is developing a growing presence in the
food industry, in baking and cooling. Orders
valued at £4.8 million were secured during
the year in the metals industry. New
environmental standards are expected to
lead to higher investment in North America
over the next two or three years where we
have recently secured a large order for coil
coat ovens.
Spooner Industries has entered the current
financial year with a record order book. New
opportunities are being explored in the non-
wovens market sector, which has been identified
as a growth market. General activity in the paper
equipment market has been low, with the
exception of China, and we do not expect this
situation to change in the near future. However,
the technically advanced Spooner ModuleDryer,
developed in partnership with Voith Paper, is now
regarded as a proven product and is expected to
provide an increased number of opportunities.
The traditional market for the supply of film and
foil converting lines in Europe is in a period of
consolidation and it is still uncertain as to what
effect this will have. 
T. M. Mackie
Chief Executive
Annual R eport 2003
Chief Executive’s Report
F
4 Dickinson Legg GROUP PLC
5
“Dickinson Legg’s range
of key processing
equipment continues to
generate opportunities”
“Spooner Industries
has entered the 
year with a record
order book”
