 Annual R eport 2003
Chairman’s Statement
his is the 
first annual report 
of Dickinson Legg
Group plc, which was 
demerged from Brunel Holdings plc 
on 13 December 2002. The demerger’s principal
objectives were the realisation of value for capital
tax losses, which were unlikely to be utilised by
the on-going business, a reduction in debt and to
release the Group from pension fund liabilities,
which at 30 June 2002 had an FRS 17 deficit of 
£15 million. In addition, head office costs were
reduced, under-performing assets disposed of
and the negative balance on distributable
reserves eliminated, making possible the
payment of dividends.
The transition to the new group has taken a great
deal of senior management time, but has gone
smoothly and all the objectives have been
achieved. The final step was the acceptance by
employees of a new defined contribution pension
scheme, which eliminates the possibility of a
pension fund deficit arising in the future. 
The Group is now comprised of two profitable
businesses operating globally in the design and
manufacture of process equipment for the
tobacco, paper, metal and food industries. The
emphasis in both businesses is on design, 
based on process knowledge developed in 
close co-operation with customers. 
Results
The accounts have been prepared on the basis
that Dickinson Legg Group was in its current
form throughout the year in accordance
with the rules of merger accounting.
Due to Dickinson Legg
not benefiting from an
exceptionally large contract
as it did the previous year, Group
turnover for the year was 9% down 
and Group operating profit before exceptionals
54% down. Total operating profit of £3.21 million
before exceptional charges showed a marked
improvement in the second half and the year’s
results were in line with market expectations at
the time of the demerger.  Spooner Industries
continued to make progress in the second half
achieving £0.43 million operating profit for the
year (2002: £nil). Exceptional charges of
£0.78 million were below the £1 million stated in
the AIM admission document and comprised
redundancy costs of £340,000 with the balance
being demerger related costs.
Diluted earnings per share before exceptionals
were 6.8p (2002: 16.2p). 
The nature of our business with large, irregular
cash receipts does result in fluctuations in the net
debt position, which showed a small increase in
the second half to £0.4 million. This represents
7.6% of net assets. Net financing costs were 44%
lower than in the previous year.
Dividend
Thought has been given to the best way of 
using the Group’s pool of Advance Corporation
Tax, thereby reducing tax payments, and 
alternatives to the payment of a cash dividend
were considered as indicated in the AIM listing
document. However, it was decided that
shareholders’ interests were best served by
paying a cash dividend, but to defer payment 
until the new financial year in order to optimise 
the tax position. This will save the Company
£0.14 million. The directors are therefore
recommending the payment of 1.5p dividend on
1 July 2004 to include 0.2p enhancement in
compensation for the deferred payment. 
Going forward it is the intention that, subject to
satisfactory performance, a progressive dividend
policy will be implemented and an interim
dividend representing approximately one third 
of the total year’s dividend will be payable in 
the future. 
Prospects
As indicated in the Chief Executive’s report, 
the markets in which the Group operates are 
very competitive. In most, demand is weak 
which is reflected in Dickinson Legg’s 
opening order position, which was lower than 
at the beginning of the previous year. It is
therefore particularly noteworthy that Spooner
has entered the current year with a record 
order book. The strengthening of the Euro 
against Sterling in recent months should help 
but until there are definite signs of an upturn 
in global capital goods markets, difficult trading
conditions will continue. However, in our new
form we are much better placed to deal 
with these conditions. We expect this year’s
performance to be strongly biased towards 
the second half.
It is the Board’s view that the Group is now in a
position to consider acquisitions. Opportunities
are being sought in related fields to our present
activities to determine where shareholder value
can be enhanced by this means. 
T
2 Dickinson Legg GROUP PLC
3
“
The Group is now comprised 
of two profitable businesses 
operating globally.
”
People
Inevitably the demerger created uncertainty for
employees, particularly with regard to their
pension rights. My thanks are due to all
concerned for their efforts and co-operation in
resolving difficult issues amicably and without
disruption. 
During the year Tom Mackie and David Heath
became respectively Group Managing Director
and Group Financial Director. On 1 July 2003,
Tom Mackie was appointed Chief Executive and
I gave up my executive role, reverting to being
Chairman. 
I am pleased that Robert Davis joined the Board
as non-executive director on 1 September 2003.
His extensive management experience in
international engineering companies will be 
of great value to us. Moger Woolley, who was 
for 8 years Chairman of Brunel and subsequently
non-executive director, first of Brunel then of
Dickinson Legg Group plc, has decided to retire
after the Annual General Meeting. His advice 
and support has been of great value and I wish
him a long and happy retirement.
B. B. Stevenson
Chairman
