 Strong performance
Dignity’s stable and predictable business has once again
delivered strong growth in underlying operating proﬁts,
increasing 8 per cent to £47.6 million (2006: £44.1
million). Operating proﬁts increased 10 per cent to £47.7
million (2006: £43.4 million). Combined with our funding
strategy, this has delivered an excellent return for our
shareholders in the period.
Valuing our people
During the period, my fellow Executive Directors and I have
increased the number of visits to our funeral locations to
see at ﬁrst hand the quality of service being provided by
our staff. During each visit, we have spoken to colleagues
who are passionate about looking after each and every
family to the best of their ability. They truly are a credit 
to this business and we look forward to meeting other
colleagues in similar visits in 2008.
I am delighted that service excellence has been converted
into strong operating results. This enabled us to make a
discretionary bonus payment of £1.2 million to permanent
members of staff not covered by any other bonus scheme.
This equates to £600 for each full time employee and 
is an increase of 20 per cent over that paid in the 
previous period.
Furthermore, we continue to maintain our ﬁnal salary
pension scheme, keeping it open to new employees.
Following our £10.0 million lump sum contribution in
2006, the scheme shows a surplus within these ﬁnancial
statements of £6.8 million (2006: £0.6 million).
Investing in growth responsibly
Since ﬂotation, the Group has invested £35.9 million in
acquisitions of funeral businesses, representing 43 funeral
locations. This investment in quality businesses delivers
excellent returns for our shareholders and is a very
effective use of our excess operating cash. 
Similarly, £20.9 million has been invested in 224 hearses
and limousines and 436 other new vehicles in the last four
years, whilst £14.6 million of other capital expenditure has
been spent to improve the facilities at 169 locations. This
substantial investment is helping to provide our staff with
a better environment for delivering excellent client service.
The marketing of pre-arranged funeral plans also serves as
a signiﬁcant investment in the business, being a key driver
of incremental revenues for future periods. The Group
expects to carry out the funeral for the majority of these
sales, which in turn, through client service excellence 
and recommendations, will deliver further volumes going
forward. At the same time, these plans provide great peace
of mind to people in our communities, who know that
their affairs will be dealt with as they wish.
Our focus
The Group’s strategy is very clearly focused on growing
proﬁtability in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Underpinning this is a commitment to excellent client
service and recognition of the importance of balancing the
needs of our customers, our employees, our shareholders
and the communities in which we work. 
We satisfy the needs of all our stakeholders by staying
committed to both helping people through one of the
most difﬁcult times of their lives and to our strategy. 
These have remained consistent for many years. 
The remainder of this Annual Report describes in more
detail how this approach has translated into success in
each aspect of our business, whilst encompassing our
corporate and social responsibilities.
05
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s overview
“I am delighted that service 
excellence has been converted 
into strong operating results.”
Peter Hindley, Chief Executive
p1-19 tp Q6  8/4/08  12:17  Page 5
