 Results
I am delighted to present my ﬁrst annual report as
Chairman of the Group.
Underlying earnings per share (which excludes proﬁt on
sale of ﬁxed assets and exceptional tax items) increased
14 per cent to 38.2 pence per share (2007: 33.4 pence
per share). Basic earnings per share were 38.8 pence per
share (2007: 34.4 pence per share), an increase of 
13 per cent.
This is another strong performance by the Group and is
the result of maintaining our focus on the same strategy
that has served this business so well in recent years,
namely that we plan to grow the proﬁtability of our
business by:
• Operating in a traditional market where people use 
our services based on our reputation and through
recommendations, where we believe our continued
commitment to excellent service for our clients 
will generate a high level of referral and organic 
revenue growth;
• Continuing to control our costs;
• Selective acquisitions of additional funeral locations; 
• National marketing, principally through afﬁnity partners,
of pre-arranged funeral plans; and
• Developing, managing or acquiring additional crematoria
where possible.
Dividends
The Board has proposed that a ﬁnal dividend of 7.34
pence per Ordinary Share should be paid from proﬁts
generated in 2008. This will be paid on 26 June 2009 to
members on the register at close of business on 29 May
2009, provided shareholder consent is obtained at the
Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2009.
This will follow an interim dividend of 3.66 pence per
Ordinary Share, which was paid in October 2008.
These dividends represent a 10 per cent increase year 
on year, a rate that has been maintained since ﬂotation 
in 2004.
Changes to the Board
A number of changes were made to the composition 
of the Board since the last Annual Report.
Richard Connell retired as Chairman. Richard guided the
Group through two very successful periods of its history.
Firstly during its private equity ownership and more recently
as a public company. I would like to thank him, on behalf
of the Board, for his contribution and wish him well with
his numerous other business interests.
Mike McCollum, the previous Finance Director, was
appointed Chief Executive. Mike has over 13 years within
the business and has made a signiﬁcant contribution in
guiding the Group through all its signiﬁcant changes since
the management buy out. I am sure that he will be an
outstanding Chief Executive.
Steve Whittern has succeeded Mike as Finance Director.
Steve was previously the Group’s Financial Controller and
has been with the Group for ten years in various roles
within the ﬁnance team.
As well as these changes to the Executive Directors, at the
beginning of 2009 we also appointed two additional Non-
Executive Directors, Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter.
Their biographies on page 19 demonstrate their extensive
experience and they are welcome additions to the Board.
Ishbel and Alan’s appointments also give the necessary
balance to the Board, required by the Combined Code,
given our responsibilities as a constituent member of the
FTSE 250.
Our people
I know from my time as Chief Executive that our people
are a tremendous asset to the Group. Their dedication to
doing the best possible job, be it directly with families, or
supporting operational staff, is at the heart of this business
and I thank them for their individual contributions.
Outlook for 2009
All three business areas continue to perform well in the
ﬁrst quarter of 2009 and the outlook for the Group
remains positive for the year ahead.
04 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“This performance is a result 
of maintaining our focus on the 
same strategy that has served 
this business so well.”
Peter Hindley, Chairman
Dignity_AR08_Front IFC_1-22 tp.qxd 7/4/09 09:25 Page 4
