 Introduction
I would like to begin my ﬁrst overview as Chief Executive,
by recognising the tremendous contribution Peter Hindley
made during his 17 years as Chief Executive of this business.
I am delighted that Peter agreed to become Non-Executive
Chairman, as this will allow the Group to continue to beneﬁt
from his vast experience of the industry in the coming
years. This experience was clearly recognised by our major
shareholders, who were consulted and supported Peter’s
transition to Chairman. 
Delivering proﬁtable growth 
Underlying operating proﬁts (which excludes proﬁt on 
sale of ﬁxed assets) increased 9 per cent to £52.1 million
(2007: £47.6 million). Operating proﬁts increased 12 per
cent to £53.2 million (2007: £47.7 million).
This strong performance reﬂects good growth in our core
operations, together with beneﬁts from acquisitions made
in the period. 
This solid operational performance continues to be
underpinned by our funding strategy, which helps to
improve returns to our shareholders.
Building value for shareholders 
The Group continues to be very cash generative. 
I believe that the Group makes the best use of that cash
for the beneﬁt of its shareholders, by using it for three
main purposes, in addition to the traditional payment 
of dividends.
First, the business generates sufﬁcient cash to fund
continued programmes of renewal and improvement to 
its infrastructure. This helps our staff to provide the best
possible service. For many years now, we have invested
signiﬁcantly in improving our locations and maintaining 
a modern ﬂeet of hearses, limousines and other vehicles. 
Second, the stability of our cash ﬂows enables us to
maintain an efﬁcient balance sheet with long term ﬁxed
rate debt. Importantly, the principal of this debt amortises
over its life and is scheduled to be fully repaid by 2031.
Third, we have historically been able to ﬁnance acquisitions
of funeral locations from internally generated cash ﬂows.
These acquisitions deliver good incremental shareholder
value from the outset.
Valuing our people
The business continues to grow thanks to the dedication
of all our staff. Irrespective of their role within the business,
they are focused on delivering client service excellence.
Another successful year has allowed the Group to make
discretionary payments totalling £1.3 million to permanent
members of staff not covered by any bonus scheme, an
increase of 8 per cent over that paid in the previous period.
In addition, we continue to maintain our ﬁnal salary pension
scheme, keeping it open to new employees. The scheme
continues to show a healthy surplus on an accounting
basis and the most recent actuarial valuation, as at 5 April
2008, also showed the scheme to be fully funded.
Building on our reputation, relationships 
and responsibilities
Our strategy has been consistent for many years and has
proved to be very effective. At its core is the service we
provide to our customers. We help bereaved people at a
sad time by providing a compassionate service whether
through our funeral businesses, our crematoria, or our 
pre-arranged funeral plan business. The result of this focus
is that over 70 per cent of our business is generated by
previous experience, recommendation and reputation.
We continue to work on improving our already very high
levels of service.
05 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW
“This strong performance reﬂects 
good growth in our core operations,
together with beneﬁts from acquisitions
made in the period.”
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive
Dignity_AR08_Front IFC_1-22 tp.qxd 7/4/09 09:25 Page 5
