 Delivering profitable growth and building value 
for shareholders
Our performance in 2009 has been strong with underlying
operating profits increasing 8 per cent. This reflects steady
growth in funeral operations and strong growth in
crematoria and pre-arranged funeral plans.
This growth can be directly linked to the continued success
of our long-standing strategy.
Continued commitment to client service excellence
Once again, our survey results indicate that 98 per cent 
of families we serve would either definitely or probably
recommend our services. This continues to be an excellent
result and is a clear indication of our commitment to client
service excellence. 
Continuing to control our operating costs
As a Group, whilst revenues have increased 5 per cent, cost
of sales and administrative expenses have increased by
less than 4 per cent.  
The Group’s continued focus on cost control is no better
demonstrated than in funeral operations this year. Whilst
revenues have only grown 1 per cent, operating expenses
have essentially remained flat year on year. This is an
excellent performance given the business has relatively 
high operational leverage.
Selective acquisitions of additional funeral locations
Seven funeral locations have been acquired during the
period. Whilst this is fewer than recent years, the locations
continue to add shareholder value from the time of
acquisition. 
National marketing, principally through affinity partners, 
of pre-arranged funeral plans
I am pleased that our focus on cost efficient marketing has
delivered such strong results, with the division adding a net
12,000 plans to the backlog of unfulfilled plans, which now
stands at 216,000. The majority of these plans continue to
represent incremental business to the Group.
Developing, managing or acquiring additional 
crematoria where possible
2009 has seen a number of developments in this area. 
At the beginning of the year, we acquired five new crematoria.
In addition, we have completed the refurbishment works at
Rotherham where we have taken over the operation of the
location from the council. We have also started building a
new crematorium in Cambridgeshire and since the end of
the year, started to build a new crematorium in Somerset.
Valuing our people
I am very appreciative of the staff that work at Dignity.
Each of them is involved in a different way, in serving
families at a time of great need with the utmost care,
dedication and professionalism.
I am delighted that as a result of our operating performance,
we have been able to recognise their personal contributions
again this year with discretionary payments totalling £1.5
million, an increase of 15 per cent over last year.
At the heart of our local communities
Each of our 546 funeral locations and 30 crematoria
provide a service that places them at the heart of their
local community. Our staff and our infrastructure allow
each business to help people through one of the most
difficult times in their lives, with compassion, respect,
openness and care. 
I am proud that Dignity is the company that so many
families know that they can trust at their time of need.
Chief Executive’s overview
“This growth can be directly linked 
to the continued success of our 
long-standing strategy.”
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive
05 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
