 6
Dillistone Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Dillistone Group Plc is a global leader in 
the supply of technology solutions and 
services to the recruitment industry 
worldwide.
Strategy and objectives
The Group’s strategy is to grow the 
business both organically and through 
acquisition. This strategy is made 
possible by our commitment to product 
development, which ensures that the 
business continues to command a 
leading role in all of the markets in 
which it operates.
Our acquisition strategy typically 
entails consideration of firms offering:
• products that would further increase 
market share in the Group’s core 
markets;
• legacy applications where clients 
could be transferred to our modern 
suite of products; or
• complementary applications which 
may be cross sold to clients of the 
Group.
The Group’s objectives are principally to:
• ensure our products meet the needs 
of the recruitment sector through 
continual investment and 
development of our products;
• be a leading player in all of the 
markets we serve;
• develop our staff; and
• increase our profitability and deliver 
increased shareholder value year on 
year and to follow a progressive 
dividend policy. 
Our business model
The business is split into two divisions, 
Dillistone Systems and Voyager 
Software. Dillistone Systems specialises 
in the supply of software and services 
into executive-level recruitment 
teams. Voyager Software’s clientele 
are primarily involved in contingent 
recruitment, including permanent 
placement, contract placement and the 
provision of temporary staff. Across our 
subsidiaries, we work with around 2,000 
firms in approximately 60 countries. 
Further details of the products we supply 
are given in the ‘At a Glance’ section.
The majority of our products are 
delivered through one or more of the 
following:
1. an upfront licence fee plus a recurring 
support fee;
2. software as a Service (SaaS) 
subscription basis; or
3. a hybrid model incorporating an 
upfront payment and recurring 
support and hosting fees.
The business has offices in four 
countries, the UK, Germany (through 
a branch), the US and Australia. 
This enables the Group to support 
its customers on an approaching 
24/5 basis. As well as supplying and 
supporting our software we also 
host the software for a proportion 
of our clients. This is done through 
data centres in Europe, the US, 
Singapore and Australia.
Review of the business
2013 saw recurring revenues grow 
16% to £5.271m (2012: £4.529m) 
reflecting the acquisition of FCP 
Internet, whose revenues (£472,000) 
are included in the Group results for 
the first time and are mainly recurring 
in nature. Recurring revenues represent 
65% of Group revenues (2012: 64%). 
Overheads have increased across 
the business in part as a result of our 
decision to strengthen management 
depth in anticipation of future growth 
but, despite this, pre-tax profits before 
acquisition related items increased 
7% to £1.801m (2012: £1.684m).
Dillistone Systems
The Dillistone Systems division 
is primarily focused on providing 
technology solutions to the executive 
search market. This client group 
is made up of both executive 
search firms and executive search 
teams in major organisations.
In my 2013 report, I noted that, in 
2012, according to statistics from the 
Trade association the Association of 
Executive Search Consultants (AESC), 
the retained search market had shrunk 
but that Dillistone Systems had grown 
its install base despite that trend. I 
am able to report a very similar story 
in 2013, with the AESC reporting that 
the total number of mandates taken 
on by search firms in 2013 fell by 8.5%. 
Despite this, Dillistone Systems was 
again able to sign up a new client 
roughly every other working day.
CEO’s Review 7
Dillistone Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
www.dillistonegroup.com
In addition, we successfully sold 
our FileFinder product into a variety 
of different corporate sectors. 
These included retail, technology, 
private equity, management 
consulting, energy, banking, 
publishing and the public sector.
The division continued to invest in 
enhancing our products and services. 
For a number of years, Dillistone 
Systems has offered cloud hosting 
facilities in the UK and Australia, and 
facilities in the US and Asia have been 
added since the publication of our  
last report.
Our development team has continued 
to develop the FileFinder product, 
and has delivered performance and 
functionality improvements since 
launch. The division expects to 
make an important product related 
announcement later this year.
Dillistone Systems’ head office is in 
London and it has offices in the US, 
Germany and Australia. The division 
accounts for 61 % (2012: 66%) of the 
Group’s revenue and saw recurring 
revenue grow 3% to £3.248m (2012: 
£3.144m). As a whole, the division saw 
segmental operating profit before 
amortisation and depreciation increase 
by 5% to £2.013m (2012: £1.912m). 
Revenue
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Recurring income 3,248 3,144
Non-recurring income 1,675 1,522
4,923 4,666
Voyager Software
Voyager Software performed well 
in 2013. The division successfully 
delivered its largest ever contract and 
has seen its ‘Infinity’ product gain 
good momentum in the market.
The Infinity product was a major 
development for the business and, 
since launch, work has continued 
to optimise it for larger firms 
and certain delivery models.
July 2013 saw us acquire FCP Internet, 
a UK focused SaaS business targeting 
the recruitment industry via its product, 
evolve™. The integration of the business 
has been successfully completed, with 
the majority of staff transferring to 
existing Group offices in Basingstoke 
and London. Client retention has been 
strong, and the evolve™ platform today 
supports more users than ever before.
In 2013, the Voyager Software 
division accounted for 40% of Group 
revenues. The division’s revenues were 
£3.202m and it had a segmental 
operating profit before amortisation 
and depreciation of £0.598m.
Revenue
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Recurring income 2,023 1,385
Non-recurring income 777 618
Third party revenues 402 383
3,202 2,386
Although both divisions are run 
separately, synergies continue to 
be delivered. Both divisions are 
committed to continuing to invest in 
their products to ensure they retain 
their market leading positions.
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to 
a number of risks that include the 
effect of changes in interest rates, 
credit, foreign currency exchange 
rates and liquidity. The Group does 
not trade in financial instruments. 
Further details in relation to these 
risks are shown in note 23.
Interest rate risk
The Group currently finances its 
activities through retained cash and 
equity finance. The Group monitors 
its exposure to interest rate risk 
when investing its cash resources.
Credit risk
The Group has a large customer 
base in excess of 2,000 customers 
and is not dependent on a small 
number of customers. Accordingly, 
the Group does not believe it is 
exposed to significant credit risk. In 
addition, it only places money with 
banks with strong credit ratings.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Board and management use absolute figures to monitor the performance of the business in the following financial KPIs:
FY 2013 
£’000
FY 2012 
£’000 Measure
Total revenue 8,101 7,052 year on year growth
Recurring revenues 5,271 4,529 year on year growth
Non-recurring revenues 2,428 2,140 year on year growth
Adjusted profit before tax 1,801 1,684 year on year growth
Cash 1,399 1,643 sufficient cash resources maintained
In addition, the Board monitors order levels and employee numbers as well as performance against budget. 8
Dillistone Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CEO’s Review continued
Exchange risk
The Group is exposed to translation and transaction foreign exchange risk. The Group’s foreign operations primarily trade in their 
own currencies reducing the transaction risk. As a result the main foreign exchange transactional exposure arises when 
repatriating profits. The Group only seeks to remit cash when required in the UK and it usually has some flexibility on timing of 
such appropriations to minimise any exchange losses. 
To a degree, the Group relies on a partial natural hedge of Euro, Australian Dollar and US Dollar to cover the translation exposures.
Liquidity risk
The Group maintains positive cash resources and has sufficient available funds for its operations and planned expansion of its 
existing activities.
Principal risks and uncertainties
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have an impact on the Group’s long term performance and cause 
actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The Directors seek to identify material risks and put in 
place policies and procedures to mitigate any exposure. The table of risks that follows gives details of the principal risks and the 
approach being taken to manage them.
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Economic risk to our 
core markets
The recruitment industry has a reputation for being 
vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the economy. 
This can impact significantly on non-recurring 
revenue and to a lesser extent recurring revenue.
The Group operates globally and so is not reliant  
on one economy. It enjoys a high percentage of 
recurring revenues. The acquisition of Voyager  
and FCP have increased the exposure to the UK 
economy. Future acquisitions may be overseas.
In a downturn there may be a reduction in new 
permanent hires which may be replaced by 
temporary hires. This could impact our traditional 
executive search market. The Group’s suite of 
products now supports more aspects of the third 
party recruitment market through its acquisition  
of Voyager (in 2011) and FCP . The temporary 
recruitment market is potentially anti-cyclical. 
New product risk The introduction of new products might  
contain significant bugs that make them unusable. 
This could damage the Group’s reputation and 
result in loss of new orders and therefore reduce 
revenue growth. It could also result in claims 
against the Group.
Products are tested pre-launch and launch 
strategies are developed to minimise risks.
These risks are being actively monitored for  
all products.
Attrition of 
customer base
Failure to attract new customers, or the loss of 
existing customers may have a detrimental effect 
on the Group’s ability to generate revenues.
Actively manage existing customer relationships 
and endeavour to promptly deal with issues.
Competitor activity The market for recruitment software is  
extremely fragmented with a large number of 
small suppliers operating in all of the Group’s 
geographical markets. Very few of these suppliers 
have the necessary financial, technical and 
marketing resources to be able to develop their 
competitive position. However, the competition 
may intensify through consolidation or new 
entrants to the market.
Management works to build strong customer 
relationships and uses account management to 
keep in touch with clients.
The Group continues to invest in its product 
development. The Group continues to innovate 
and provide solutions to client needs. 9
Dillistone Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
www.dillistonegroup.com
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Business continuity 
risks associated with 
information 
systems’ 
operational failure 
and data security
A failure of systems or failure of hosting facilities 
leading to loss of customer confidence in the Group 
being able to deliver their requirements.
Loss or corruption of data held on behalf of 
customers which could have a detrimental effect 
on their confidence in data security processes and 
could cause financial loss.
External attacks on servers could result in lost or 
corrupted data and loss of reputation.
Each division is reliant on data centres. Work is 
ongoing to improve disaster recovery plans. 
Data backups occur daily and the necessary tests 
carried out on a regular basis to ensure data can be 
restored.
Penetration testing will help ensure systems are 
safe from attack.
Employee 
engagement and 
retention
Capability to meet the demands of the markets in 
which the Group operates and competes 
effectively with other IT suppliers is largely 
dependent on the skills, experience and 
performance of staff.
Failure to attract or retain high calibre employees 
could seriously impede future growth and present 
performance.
To retain staff the Group operates competitive 
remuneration packages and an appropriate culture 
in which staff work.
Acquisition risk The Group has made two acquisitions since 2011 
and is likely to make further acquisitions in the 
future. This creates the potential risk that 
acquisitions may not perform or may contain 
hidden risks or liabilities.
For all acquisitions and in advance of completion, 
management undertakes due diligence and 
prepare integration plans including risk 
identification. These papers are reviewed and 
approved by the Board prior to any commitment 
being entered into.
Ability to finance 
acquisitions and 
expansion
The Group wants to grow by acquisition and this 
requires that it will have the ability to fund such 
expansion either via borrowing or placement, or 
through the availability of its own cash resources.
New bankers appointed in 2013 for the Group and 
good dialogue maintained.
Changes to EIS relief likely to be beneficial in raising 
new finance through share issues.
Investor relations programme in place.
Management 
capacity
As the business grows there may be insufficient 
support to ensure that the growth is effectively 
managed and integrated.
Investment in additional management in 2013 and 
the divisional boards and the Group Board continue 
to review the need for additional resources.
On behalf of the Board
Jason Starr
Chief Executive
28 April 2014
