 2
Dillistone Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Dillistone Systems division Our two Divisions are Dillistone Systems 
and Voyager Software
Dillistone Systems is a leading global supplier of software 
to executive search firms and to in-house search teams at 
major corporations and not-for-profit organisations. The 
Division’s main product is FileFinder 10, which is the latest 
iteration of the FileFinder software system, launched in 
March 2011 and built using Microsoft .NET framework 
technology. The Division is headquartered in the UK, but 
has offices in Germany, the United States and Australia and 
serves clients in more than 60 countries, generating more 
revenue from outside the UK than from its home market. 
Dillistone Systems is widely acknowledged to work with 
more executive search firms than any comparable supplier, 
and is also considered to be a thought leader in this space. 
As a result, the Division has also moved beyond the supply 
of software, and provides additional services including 
training in executive search techniques, marketing and 
advertising services, and also runs regular conferences 
which are open to both client and non-client firms.
Timeline
1983
The original FileFinder software 
was developed by David 
Dillistone, himself a retained 
search consultant. While it was 
initially created for in-house use, 
David soon realised that there 
was a market for it beyond his 
own firm, and so he created 
David Dillistone Systems.
1990
By the late 1990s, David had 
retired and the business – now 
renamed as Dillistone Systems – 
was owned by Custom Business 
Systems. CBS invested heavily 
in the firm and, by the end of 
the decade, offices had been 
established on three continents.
2003
In 2003, the current management 
team took part in a management 
buyout of the business. The 
dawn of the Internet meant 
that it became far easier to 
sell the FileFinder system 
internationally, and, as a result, 
Dillistone Systems grew rapidly.
Dillistone Group at a Glance
