 2 
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Browser Desktop Outlook Mobile
Dillistone Group at a Glance
Our two divisions are 
Dillistone Systems and 
Voyager Software
Dillistone Systems Division
Dillistone Systems is a leading global 
supplier of software to executive search 
firms and to in-house search teams at 
major corporations and not-for-profit 
organisations. The Division’s main 
product is the FileFinder Anywhere suite 
which was launched in September 2014. 
The Division is headquartered in the UK, 
but has offices in Germany, the United 
States and Australia and serves clients in 
more than 60 countries, generating more 
revenue from outside the UK than from 
its home market. 
Dillistone Systems is widely acknowledged 
to work with more executive search firms 
than any comparable supplier, and is also 
considered to be a thought leader in this 
space. As a result, the Division has also 
moved beyond the supply of software, 
and provides additional services including 
training in executive search techniques, 
marketing and advertising services, and 
also runs regular conferences which are 
open to both client and non-client firms.
Dillistone Systems Products
FileFinder is designed specifically for the 
executive search market with FileFinder 
Anywhere being the latest generation of 
the product. 
FileFinder is an executive search database, 
CRM system, research tool, report writer 
and project management solution all 
rolled into one. It is designed to support 
every element of the search process.
The product is unique in its market, in 
that it is available to purchase or to rent, 
and can be accessed via a Desktop App,  
a full Browser App, a Mobile App or 
through Microsoft Outlook.
Voyager Software Division
Voyager Software became a part of the 
Dillistone Group in September 201 1. At the 
time of its acquisition by Dillistone, it 
provided end-to-end recruitment solutions 
principally to the third party recruiting sector. 
Voyager’s products included Voyager 
Professional, Voyager Commercial, Voyager 
VDQ! and Voyager Mid-Office, a product 
range largely used by temp and contingency 
recruiters. In September 2012, Voyager 
launched its next generation software 
platform, Voyager Infinity. Voyager Infinity 
is designed to improve the performance of 
recruitment companies specialising in both 
contract and permanent placements. 
Infinity meets the demands of flexibility and 
functionality required by these firms, putting 
it at the forefront of software available to 
the recruitment industry. In July 2013, the 
Group acquired FCP Internet, suppliers of 
the Evolve SaaS product, and this has 
subsequently been folded into the Voyager 
division. In October 2014, a further 
acquisition saw ISV Software – a supplier of 
skills testing and training services – folded 
into the division. Today, the Voyager 
products are used in over 20 different 
countries by many thousands of users in 
different-sized recruitment businesses. The 
Division has offices in the UK and Australia 
and employs around 50 people.
Global reach
Dillistone Group has  
offices in the UK, US, 
Germany and Australia, 
serving over 2,000 firms  
in over 60 countries
 Main Group offices
Strategic Report 3
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Voyager Software Products
Voyager is a leading provider of 
innovative recruitment software. Its focus 
is on service and delivering tangible 
benefits and its recruitment solutions 
offer rapid deployment and return on 
investment. The products span the entire 
recruitment landscape, from the front 
office to the back office and even to 
bureaus. By combining recruitment 
software products, the Division has a 
strong track record of delivering vertical 
market solutions. 
Voyager Infinity manages the 
timetables of recruiters working to fill 
permanent and longer-term contract/
temporary vacancies. 
With Virtual Voyager, all Voyager 
products can now be hosted and 
delivered to any customer PC with  
an internet connection.
Voyager Commercial brings further 
unique tools that optimise a candidate’s 
entire association with a temporary or 
short-term contract placement agency. 
Voyager VDQ! is designed for fast- 
paced blue and white collar temporary 
placement agencies that have to  
quickly assemble transient or ad-hoc 
teams to serve highly volatile and  
urgent labour requirements. 
Through FCP Internet, the division also 
provides its evolve
TM 
software. evolve™ 
has been designed to deliver an effective 
workflow solution for all sizes and types of 
recruitment businesses. It is delivered only 
as a SaaS product.
Through ISV, the division provides its 
fastPath software. This software  
delivers pre-employment skills testing  
and training tools to recruitment 
businesses and corporates.
Middle and Back Office Products
Voyager Mid-Office Voyager’s flexible 
Pay & Bill solution, automates the 
processing of large volumes of invoices 
and payments to numerous clients  
and candidates.
Voyager Bureau enables bureaus to 
subcontract back-office operations for 
multiple client recruitment companies  
on a single platform.
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
