 4 
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s Statement
The Group has enjoyed another successful year in 2014, 
delivering its best ever performance in terms of revenue, 
adjusted operating profit and adjusted EPS. Revenue was  
up 6 % to £8.63m and adjusted operating profits up 1 %  
to £1.82m. Profit after tax fell 7% to £1.15m. Adjusted EPS  
rose 7 % to 8.56p. 
Mike Love
Non-Executive Chairman
The business continued to invest, 
delivering a major new product launch  
in the Dillistone Systems division, while 
successfully completing the integration of 
FCP Internet into the Voyager Software 
division, and in September 2014 
announcing the acquisition of ISV 
Software (ISV).
ISV (www.isvgroup.com) is a UK based 
supplier of training and testing services, 
primarily to the recruitment industry. ISV 
works with 9 of the 10 largest recruitment 
agencies in the UK (by office numbers) 
and 7 of the 10 largest by revenue. It 
offers over 200 published materials/tests 
covering many business sectors. ISV 
contributed £195,000 to revenue and 
£18,000 to profit before taxation during 
the three months of its ownership by 
Dillistone in 2014.
It is the view of the Board that product 
development is fundamental to the long 
term success of the business and, as a 
result, 2015 will see us continue to invest 
in the development of software within 
both of our Divisions.
Dividends
The Board was pleased to increase the 
interim dividend payment in September 
2014 to 1.30p (2013: 1.25p). The Board 
has recommended an increased final 
dividend of 2.7p per share (2013: 2.6p), 
subject to shareholder approval, payable 
on 24 June 2015 to holders on the register 
on 29 May 2015. Shares will trade 
ex-dividend from 28 May 2015. This takes 
the total dividend based on the 2014 
results to 4.00p (2013: 3.85p), and gives  
a yield of 3.7% on a share price of 107p. 
This represents our 3rd successive year 
on year increase in the dividend, in line 
with our progressive dividend policy, 
which illustrates the Board’s confidence 
in the future prospects of the Group. The 
business is committed to maintaining 
its policy of investing in its products and 
services whilst rewarding its shareholders.
Staff
Our staff are fundamentally important 
to the success of the business. It is 
through their efforts, commitment and 
determination that we continue to be a 
leading technology provider in the sectors 
we serve. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank all 
of them.
Outlook
Group revenues in the first quarter are 
ahead of the same period in 2014. 
Our Dillistone Systems division has 
seen incoming orders in Q1 increase 
on the same period in the previous 
year reflecting, in part, the launch of 
the FileFinder Anywhere platform in 
September of 2014. As noted previously, 
since the launch of FileFinder Anywhere, 
the Division has been successful in 
winning a number of larger than average 
contracts and is currently in talks with 
a number of potential clients which, if 
successfully closed, would fall into this 
same category. These larger contracts  
do however take longer to implement  
and the full impact may not be seen in 
2015. Nonetheless, the relative scale  
and increasing frequency of these 
opportunities validates the Board’s 
strategy of investing in new product 
development and in the prospects for  
this iteration of FileFinder. 
“ Product development is 
fundamental to the long term 
success of the business”
Strategic Report 5
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Dillistone Systems is a global market-leading 
provider of technology to executive 
recruitment companies and strategic talent 
acquisition teams. 
In September 2014, it launched the latest 
generation of its flagship product – FileFinder 
Anywhere, which enables users to access their 
business-critical data via four platforms – 
Desktop Software, Mobile, Browser and 
Outlook – anywhere, anytime. 
Since the launch, close to 100 companies 
have purchased or upgraded to FileFinder 
Anywhere, many of them reporting 
measurable benefits to their businesses. 
One of the earliest adopters of FileFinder 
Anywhere is O’Neill Consulting, a client-
centred retained Executive Search firm 
headquartered in South Kingstown, RI, USA. 
Alexandra Henry, Client Care Officer at O’Neill 
Consulting Group, shared her experience 
about the organisation’s implementation of 
FileFinder Anywhere.
The Background
O’Neill Consulting Group is a retained search 
firm that aims to deliver high impact talent 
solutions to clients around the world. It 
specializes in the consumer, industrial, 
manufacturing, life sciences and private 
equity sectors with emphasis on finance, 
operations, human resources, supply chain, 
logistics and general management roles.
How impactful is being able to access your 
data from machines other than your 
traditional office desktops?
“That is going to be extremely impactful for 
us,” commented Alexandra. She explained it 
would be much quicker and easier for the CEO 
and our Managing Directors, to access 
business information wherever they are.
How well does the product work  
on your Mac computers?
Some of O’Neill Consulting Group’s 
employees work remotely and prefer to travel 
with their Macs. Alexandra said the product 
was “working well” on Mac computers, and 
speaking about the attachments feature, 
which enables users, including those on the 
road, to pull up attachments in relation to a 
search quickly.
How do you find the new Outlook 
integration?
Alexandra explained: “It’s a lot easier to use, 
especially for people who are on the road – 
they don’t have to go into the database; they 
can see a lot of information right there, which 
is going to be extremely helpful for us pulling 
information on candidates quickly.”
How easy is the product to use?
“The product has been extremely easy; for 
us,” explained Alexandra. “It has been very 
straightforward; it hasn’t been a tricky process 
at all to switch over.”
How are the stability and the speed  
of the product?
“The stability has been excellent. We haven’t 
had any issues – I haven’t had anyone tell me 
they’ve had any crash issues or problems with 
things not working correctly,” said Alexandra. 
She described the speed of the product as 
“great”. She added: “One thing that we really 
like, especially with a lot of our people on the 
road, is how quick the speed is between 
updating something on the desktop to the 
browser version.”
Would you recommend FileFinder 
Anywhere?
“Yes, we would definitely recommend it, I 
think for firms that are growing and firms that 
have people outside of one office,” 
commented Alexandra. “I highly recommend 
it for anyone who travels a lot or has remote 
employees and needs information quickly.”
How FileFinder Anywhere  
Supports O’Neill Consulting
Case study
Revenues for our Voyager Software 
division are also up on the same period 
of 2014. The Division has invested 
significantly in product development 
over the past 2 years and it expects to 
announce a number of further notable 
product updates and launches in the 
coming months. These are expected to 
have a positive impact on the business 
in the medium to longer term. 
Both Divisions currently see recurring 
revenue at record levels and the Group 
was delighted to sign an extension of one 
of its largest SaaS contracts during the 
first quarter of 2015. This contract, worth 
at a minimum, in the region of £250,000 
per annum, has been extended until 
November 2016.
In the longer term, the Group’s continuing 
investment in product development 
across all parts of the business gives the 
Board confidence in the future and, as 
a result, we are delighted to propose an 
increase in our final dividend of 3.8% to 
2.7p (2013: 2.6p).
Dr Mike Love
Non-Executive Chairman
24 April 2015
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
