 6 
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CEO’s Review
Dillistone Group Plc is a global leader in the supply  
of technology solutions and services to the recruitment  
industry worldwide.
“ 2014 saw recurring revenues 
grow 1 2% to £5.923m”
Jason Starr
Chief Executive
Strategy and objectives
The Group’s strategy is to grow the 
business both organically and through 
acquisition. This strategy is made  
possible by our commitment to product 
development, which ensures that the 
business continues to command a 
leading role in all of the markets in  
which it operates. 
Our acquisition strategy typically entails 
consideration of businesses offering:
• products that would further increase 
market share in the Group’s core 
markets; 
• legacy applications where clients could 
be transferred to our modern suite of 
products; or
• complementary applications which 
may be cross-sold to clients of  
the Group.
The Group’s objectives are principally to:
• ensure our products meet the needs  
of the recruitment sector through 
continual investment and 
development;
• be a leading player in all of the 
markets we serve;
• develop our staff; and
• increase our profitability and deliver 
increased shareholder value year on 
year in conjunction with following a 
progressive dividend policy.
Our business model
The business is split into two divisions, 
Dillistone Systems and Voyager Software. 
Dillistone Systems specialises in the 
supply of software and services into 
executive-level recruitment teams. 
Voyager Software’s clientele are primarily 
involved in contingent recruitment, 
including permanent placement,  
contract placement and the provision of 
temporary staff. Across our subsidiaries, 
we work with over 2,000 firms in 
approximately 60 countries. Further 
details of the products we supply are 
given in the ‘At a Glance’ section.
The majority of our products are delivered 
through one or more of the following:
1. an upfront licence fee plus a recurring 
support fee;
2. Software as a Service (SaaS) 
subscription basis; or
3. a hybrid model incorporating an 
upfront payment and recurring 
support and hosting fees.
The business has offices in four countries, 
the UK, Germany, the US and Australia. 
This enables the Group to support its 
customers on an approaching 24/5 basis. 
As well as supplying and supporting our 
software we also host the software for a 
proportion of our clients. This is done 
through data centres in Europe, the US, 
Singapore and Australia. 
Strategic Report 7
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group review of the business
2014 saw recurring revenues grow 12% to 
£5.929m (2013: £5.271m) reflecting the 
full year impact of the acquisition of FCP 
Internet and also the acquisition of ISV  
in October 2014. Non-recurring revenues 
fell 6% to £2.285m (2013: £2.428m).  
As a result, overall revenues, which were 
negatively impacted by exchange rates, 
increased by 6% to £8.625m (2013: 
£8.101m). Recurring revenues represent 
69% of Group revenues (2013: 65%). 
Overheads have increased across the 
business mainly as a result of the 
acquisitions with EBITDA increasing 7% 
to £2.402m (2013: £2.242m). Operating 
profits before acquisition related items 
increased 1 % to £1.820m (2013: 
£1.793m) and pre-tax profits before 
acquisition related items also increased 
1 % to £1.824m (2013: £1.801m).
Divisional reviews
Dillistone Systems
The Dillistone Systems division is primarily 
focused on providing technology 
solutions to the executive search market 
via our range of ‘FileFinder’ applications. 
This client group is made up of both 
executive search firms and executive 
search teams in major organisations.
Dillistone Systems’ head office is in 
London and it has offices in the US, 
Germany and Australia. The Division 
accounts for 53% (2013: 61 %) of the 
Group’s revenue and saw recurring 
revenue fall 2% to £3.186m (2013: 
£3.248m) mainly due to the impact  
of currency movements. As a whole,  
the Division saw segmental operating 
profit before amortisation and 
depreciation decrease by 21 % to 
£1.597m (2013: £2.013m). 
Revenue
2014
£’000 
2013
 £’000 
Recurring income 3,186 3,248
Non-recurring income 1,371 1,675
4,557 4,923
On the face of it, these are disappointing 
results. However, they are not 
unexpected, given our conscious and 
pre-stated decision to hold back the 
number of implementations we 
completed in the second half of the year. 
This enabled the successful replacement 
of the FileFinder 10 product with our new 
FileFinder Anywhere suite, launched to 
the market in September 2014, with the 
first ‘live’ implementations in November. 
FileFinder systems are business critical  
for our clients, and so we ensured that  
the product went through a significant 
beta test process. This meant that we 
deliberately implemented virtually no 
new client FileFinder systems between 
September and mid-November, so as  
to ensure that our development, 
implementation and support teams were 
able to provide our ‘early adopters’ with 
the level of service that they required.
This strategy has proven to be the correct 
one. Client feedback on the new product 
has been excellent, with a number of case 
studies and client testimonials already 
shown on our website.
We reported in our January trading 
statement that the new product had led 
to the Division achieving a number of 
early successes in the market, including:
• total order intake in Q4 of 2014 was 
more than 20% up on both Q4 of 
2013 and on the average of Q1–Q3 
2014;
• we won more new business contracts 
in December 2014 than in any single 
month in the last 2 years; and
• contract wins included our largest 
single North American win since 2009 
with a number of clients switching 
from competing products.
The Division has seen further positive 
signs in 2015:
• January 2015 saw us win our largest 
contract in mainland Europe since 
2007;
• February 2015 saw us win one of our 
largest ever upgrade contracts for an 
existing client; 
• several new clients converted to 
FileFinder Anywhere from the product 
of our main competitor; and
• total orders in Q1 2015 were more 
than 12% up on Q1 2014.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Board and management use absolute figures to monitor the performance of the business in the following financial KPIs:
FY 2014 
£000
FY 2013 
£000 Measure
Total revenues 8,625 8,101 year on year growth
Recurring revenues 5,929 5,271 year on year growth
Non-recurring revenues 2,285 2,428 year on year growth
Adjusted profit before tax 1,824 1,801 year on year growth
Cash less borrowings 1,443 1,399 sufficient cash resources maintained
In addition, the Board monitors order levels and employee numbers as well as performance against budget.
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements 8 
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
As a result, the Division has now seen  
3 successive quarters of year on year 
growth in total orders. Divisional recurring 
revenues at the end of Q1 are once again 
climbing and we have a strong prospect 
pipeline. We are currently ramping up our 
implementation frequency meaning that 
Q2 is likely to see realised revenue ahead 
of Q1 with the expectation that H2 will be 
stronger again.
The new FileFinder Anywhere suite 
continues to be developed, and we 
anticipate further positive announcements 
within the next 12 months. As a result, 
while the 2014 divisional results were 
disappointing, the Board is confident  
that the Division has an exciting future.
Voyager Software
Voyager Software is a leading provider  
of innovative recruitment software  
with products targeted at the entire 
recruitment landscape, from front office 
to back office and bureaus. 
Revenue
2014
£’000 
2013
 £’000 
Recurring income 2,743 2,023
Non-recurring income 914 777
Third party revenues 411 402
4,068 3,202
In 2014, the Voyager Software division 
accounted for 47% (2013: 39%) of  
Group revenues. The Division’s revenues 
were £4.068m and its segmental 
operating profit before amortisation  
and depreciation increased by 34% 
 to £0.802m (2013: £0.598m). Recurring 
revenues increased by 36% to £2.743m 
(2013: £2.023m).
The Division benefited from the full year 
impact of the FCP acquisition made in 
July 2013 and the acquisition of ISV in 
October 2014. The Division successfully 
won its largest ever contract and has seen 
its ‘Infinity’ product gain good 
momentum in the market. 
The Infinity product was a major 
development for the business and, since 
launch, work has continued to optimise  
it for larger firms and additional delivery 
models. Further announcements on this 
are expected in due course. 
The year in review was our first full  
year with FCP Internet under our 
management. This acquisition has proven 
to be very successful, with the evolve 
product now supporting more users  
than at any point in its history. Work is 
underway to deliver an updated version 
of the product, with completion expected 
in the coming months.
ISV Software was acquired in October 
2014. Unlike our other products, ISV 
provides pre-employment testing tools.  
It is the UK market leader. The business 
made a small contribution in 2014, and 
work is underway to integrate the product 
with the Voyager Software Infinity 
platform. This project should increase 
cross selling opportunities, and is likely  
to be completed this summer.
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to a 
number of risks that include the effect of 
changes in interest rates, credit, foreign 
currency exchange rates and liquidity. 
The Group does not trade in financial 
instruments. Further details in relation  
to these risks are shown in note 24. 
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk 
through its floating rate borrowings and 
through its management of retained 
cash. The Group monitors its exposure  
to interest rate risk when borrowing and 
investing its cash resources. 
Credit risk
The Group has a large customer base  
in excess of 2,000 customers and is  
not dependent on a small number of 
customers. Accordingly, the Group does 
not believe it is exposed to significant 
credit risk. In addition, it only places money 
with banks with strong credit ratings. 
Exchange risk
The Group is exposed to translation  
and transaction foreign exchange risk. 
The Group’s foreign operations primarily 
trade in their own currencies, reducing  
the transaction risk. As a result the main 
foreign exchange transactional exposure 
arises when repatriating profits. The 
Group only seeks to remit cash when 
required in the UK and it usually has some 
flexibility on timing of such appropriations 
to minimise any exchange losses. To  
a degree, the Group relies on a partial 
natural hedge of Euro, Australian  
Dollar and US Dollar to cover the 
translation exposures.
Liquidity risk
Although the Group has some borrowings 
it maintains positive cash resources and 
has sufficient available funds for its 
operations and planned expansion  
of its existing activities. 
CEO’s Review continued
Strategic Report 9
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Timeline
1983 The original FileFinder software was developed by David Dillistone, 
himself a retained search consultant. While it was initially created 
for in-house use, David soon realised that there was a market for it 
beyond his own firm, and so he created David Dillistone Systems.
1990 By the late 1990s, David had retired and the business – now 
renamed as Dillistone Systems – was owned by Custom Business 
Systems (CBS). CBS invested heavily in the firm and, by the end of 
the decade, offices had been established on three continents. 
2003 In 2003, the current management team took part in a 
management buyout of the business. The dawn of the internet 
meant that it became far easier to sell the FileFinder system 
internationally, and, as a result, Dillistone Systems grew rapidly. 
2006 In 2006, the Group floated on the AIM market of the London  
Stock Exchange (DSG.L).
2008 In 2008, a decision was taken to significantly increase R&D 
expenditure, and the development of the next generation of 
FileFinder began. 
2011 In March 2011, FileFinder 10 was released after over two years  
of development. In September 2011, the Group made its first 
acquisition: Voyager Software.
2012 In September 2012, Voyager Infinity was launched after three 
years of development.
2013 In July 2013, the Group made its second acquisition:  
FCP Internet.
2014 In October 2014, the Group acquired ISV Software. 2014 saw the 
release of FileFinder Anywhere, a market leading product suited  
to mobile working.
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements 10 
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CEO’s Review continued
Principle risk and uncertainties
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have an impact on the Group’s long term performance and cause actual 
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The Directors seek to identify material risks and put in place policies 
and procedures to mitigate any exposure. The table of risks that follows gives details of the principal risks and the approach being 
taken to manage them.
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Economic risk
The recruitment industry has a reputation for being 
vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the economy. This 
can impact significantly on non-recurring revenue and 
to a lesser extent recurring revenue.
The Company operates globally and so is not reliant on 
one economy. It enjoys a high percentage of recurring 
revenues. The acquisition of Voyager FCP and ISV has 
increased the exposure to the UK economy. 
In a downturn there may be a reduction in new 
permanent hires which may be replaced by temporary 
hires. The Group’s suite of products now supports more 
aspects of the third party recruitment market through its 
acquisition of Voyager. The temporary recruitment market 
is potentially anti-cyclical. 
New product risk
The introduction of new products might contain 
significant bugs that make them unusable. This could 
damage the Group’s reputation and result in loss of new 
orders and therefore reduce revenue growth. It could 
also result in claims against the Company.
Products are tested pre launch and launch and 
implementation strategies developed to minimise risks. 
Additional unit testing built in and commitment to focus 
on user experience. 
Attrition of  
customer base
Failure to attract new customers, or the loss of existing 
customers, may have a detrimental effect on the 
Group’s ability to generate revenues.
Actively manage existing customer relationships through 
account management structures and promptly deal with 
issues. 
The Group continues to invest in new products and new 
features being added. 
Competitor activity
The market for recruitment software is extremely 
fragmented with a large number of small suppliers 
operating in all of the Group’s geographical markets. 
Very few of these suppliers have the necessary financial, 
technical and marketing resources to be able to develop 
their competitive position. However, the competition 
may intensify through consolidation or new entrants  
to the market.
Some competitors offer a broader product range 
enabling them to compete across the whole of the 
sector.
The businesses can easily lose market share if its 
products are not well regarded either from being  
‘out of date’ or ‘buggy’.
Some firms may try to compete on price, particularly  
if the market deteriorates. Currently, Voyager carries  
a very high marginal cost on its subscription model.
Some competitors target Dillistone clients and make 
inroads based on their features.
The Group has strong customer relationships and uses 
account management to keep in touch with clients.
The Group continues to invest in its product development 
and 2015 is expected to see the launch of a SaaS version 
of Infinity and a full browser version of FF. The Group 
continues to innovate and provide solutions to client 
needs.
There is a focus on fixing bugs and issues as they arise to 
ensure the user experience is good.
Pricing strategies reviewed on a regular basis. The 
introduction of a SaaS product should result in a more 
competitive subscription model for Voyager.
The Group continue to look at developing new products 
and additional features to more readily compete. 
Strategic Report 11
Dillistone Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Business continuity 
risks associated with 
information systems’ 
operational failure 
and data security
A failure of systems or failure of hosting facilities 
leading to loss of customer confidence in the Group 
being able to deliver their requirements.
Loss or corruption of data held on behalf of customers 
which could have a detrimental effect on their 
confidence in data security processes and could cause 
financial loss.
External attacks on servers could result in lost or 
corrupted data and loss of reputation.
Each division is reliant on data centres. Work ongoing to 
improve disaster recovery plans, including investing in 
SANs and use of the cloud. 
Plans are regularly reviewed on how to improve data 
centre management as the business grows worldwide. 
Data backups occur daily and the necessary test carried 
out on a regular basis to ensure data can be restored. 
Penetration testing helps minimise the risk of attacks. 
Employee 
engagement and 
retention
Capability to meet the demands of the markets in 
which the Group operates and competes effectively 
with other IT suppliers is largely dependent on the skills, 
experience and performance of staff.
Failure to attract or retain high calibre employees could 
seriously impede future growth and present 
performance. 
Reliance on a small group of people especially in parts 
of the business.
To retain staff the Group operates competitive 
remuneration packages.
Appraisals are carried out which also consider individual’s 
personal development.
Cross training being carried out where possible.
Acquisition risk
The Group has made three acquisitions since 2011 and 
is likely to make further acquisitions in the future. This 
creates the potential risk that acquisitions may not 
perform or may contain hidden risks or liabilities.
For all acquisitions and in advance of completion, 
management undertakes due diligence and prepare 
integration plans including risk identification. These 
papers are reviewed and approved by the Board prior to 
any commitment being entered into.
Ability to finance 
acquisitions and 
expansion
The Group wants to grow by acquisition and this 
requires that it will have the ability to fund such 
expansion either via borrowing or placement, or 
through the availability of its own cash resources.
Ongoing discussions with investors and potential investors 
to build a following in Dillistone. 
Recent bank loan has established the feasibility of raising 
bank finance. Recent placing oversubscribed so Group has 
small fund available for future acquisitions.
Management 
capacity
Size of business means that management tends to be 
stretched and under resourced. As the business grows 
there may be insufficient support to ensure that the 
growth is effectively managed and integrated.
Investment in additional management in 2014. Structure 
of Divisional Boards under review as a way of developing 
senior management. 
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
