 PAGE 9
DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
[
JEREMY ORD 
]
2006 has been another year of excellent progress
for Dimension Data. We have achieved strong
revenue growth ahead of the market and improved
profitability. I am pleased to announce that we will
be paying a maiden dividend of 1 US cent per share.
It has been particularly gratifying to see the improvements in
operating profit in most regions. Europe continues to be an area
of significant attention for management, but the relatively new
regional management team is
tackling the issues in a metho-
dical manner. We believe the
actions taken will deliver results
in the new financial year.
Most markets that we participate in have been buoyant. Strong
demand in the Asian and African emerging markets, as well as
in the US, contrasted with slower growth in Europe.
Our operating model, with its combination of technology,
solutions and service offerings continued to gain traction in the
market and has allowed us to increase our presence and
penetration in existing and new accounts. Our focus on global
multinational clients is bearing fruit and we have been able to
add a large number of accounts to an already impressive list.
Our Network Integration line of business grew strongly, and
good demand for our solutions offerings, particularly Converged
Communications and Security, continued to be a major driver of
our performance. The investment that we have made over the
past few years in positioning the Group to be able to capitalise
on the convergence trend is now paying dividends.
We have worked hard to strengthen our partnerships with our
major supply partners. This creates opportunities to penetrate a
wider client base and ensures that we are at the forefront of the
latest technology innovations. Success on this front is evidenced
by the many industry awards that we received during the year.  
Corporate activity included the purchase of the remaining 20%
share holding in Internet Solutions and a number of smaller
transactions on the African continent. During the year, the $100
million convertible bonds were converted to 188 million
Dimension Data ordinary shares. On conversion, the additional
shares amounted to 12.2% of the enlarged issued share capital
of the Company.
Composition of the Board was unchanged during the year,
although after the year end Peter Liddiard, who has extensive
investment experience in the global IT services sector, was
appointed as a non-executive director. Gordon Waddell will be
retiring as a non-executive director in April 2007. Wendy Lucas-
Bull took over as Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee.
I would like to thank our clients and partners for their support
during the year. Our employees have demonstrated their
commitment and dedication and I thank them for continuing to
uphold and enhance the name of Dimension Data around the
world.
The 2007 financial year marks our 20th anniversary as a listed
company on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. As we enter
the new year as a global business with a primary listing on the
London Stock Exchange, I am encouraged by the exciting
opportunities that lie ahead for Dimension Data.  
Jeremy Ord
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER PAGE 10
RISING FROM SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
We had an exceptional performance from our US operation. Residing in the
largest and most mature IT market in the world, the US is an important part of
the Dimension Data strategy and global footprint. 
Seattle, Washington represents one of the most recent offices opened to support
the US expansion, and provides us close proximity to Microsoft, one of
Dimension Data’s strategic partners.  
Dimension Data experienced record growth
in North America of over 30% year on year
– far outpacing the market.
