 PAGE 11
DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
[
BRETT DAWSON 
]
OVERVIEW OF PERFORMANCE
The 2006 financial year has been another year of considerable
progress and growth for Dimension Data. 2006 revenue
reached a record level, increasing 16% to $3.1 billion. Our
revenue growth was largely organic, driven by market share
gains in our lines of business. Operating profit
(1)
accelerated to
$85 million, a 50% increase, while earnings per share
(1)
increased to 2.0 cents per share from 0.8 cents in 2005.   
Over the past three years,
Dimension Data has pursued a
focused strategy to improve the
quality of our revenue by
investing in high growth market
segments such as Converged Communications and Security. We
have successfully extended our value proposition to take
advantage of anticipated market trends, grown at rates better
than the market and improved our competitive positioning. We
also created new, annuity-based IT services to support increasing
client need to outsource IT maintenance, monitoring and
management. We rationalised and consolidated multiple
offerings into six focused lines of business (‘LoBs’). We developed
e-procurement solutions to reduce our cost of sales. Our
investments over the past three years to ensure growth are paying
off. Our successes have built Dimension Data into a healthier
business with stronger margins, increased revenue streams and
larger market share.
Our success in 2006 was more than solely financial. The 
33 industry awards we received in 2006 recognise our success
at partnering with leading IT manufacturers. Our clients
continue to look to our understanding of emerging technology
trends to help them plan their architecture and assess the 
best technology solution. Maintaining and growing strong
partnerships with leading IT manufacturers ensures our clients
have the best access to technology and technical support. To
this end, we expanded our relationship with Microsoft in 2006
and signed a global three year alliance agreement. We also
expanded our global service alliance with Cisco Systems to all
our geographies.
Several growth drivers supported our success in FY2006. The
security market remained a strong opportunity for Dimension
Data. Continued corporate concerns over security breaches,
computer viruses and data theft directed our clients to improve
their security posture by making security-related investments in
their IT infrastructure. The convergence of voice, video, data
and other media onto a single, robust IP-based platform helped
drive the strong growth in our Converged Communications line
of business. In addition to supporting our clients’ need to make
improvements in the core network to support convergence, we
have also helped them to enable their telephony environment.
FY2006 marked a milestone for Dimension Data in that we have
now deployed half a million IP phones around the world.
During FY2006, recognition of our IP capabilities and leadership
came in the form of the Cisco Global Internet Protocol
Communications (‘IPC’) partner of the year award. We expect
the trends we have benefited from in Security and Converged
Communications to continue into FY2007.
Dimension Data’s business is broken down into five regions –
Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe and the US. All the regions, other
than Europe, had strong performances in FY2006. In Africa,
growth in the public sector and continued strength in Network
Integration, Converged Communications and Security helped
drive a terrific performance. Asia’s operating profit increased by
a significant 69% following aggressive expansion of gross and
operating margins. We had an exceptional performance from
our US operation. Residing in the largest and most mature IT
market in the world, the US is an important part of the
Dimension Data strategy and global footprint. Dimension Data
experienced record growth in the US of over 30% year on year
– far outpacing the market. Growth drivers included exceptional
growth in Product revenue, strong demand for Security and
CEO’S REVIEW
Note:
(1)
Excluding exceptional items. Operating profit is reconciled to adjusted operating profit in Note 8 to the annual financial statements. PAGE 12
Converged Communications solutions, and solid Professional
Services growth. In addition to revenue growth, US operating
profit increased by 34%.   
SERVICES STRATEGY EVOLUTION
Over the past 12 months, Dimension Data has evolved its
services strategy to meet client needs for a full lifecycle of IT
services that help IT management deliver better business value.
We have invested in aligning our services offerings to the IT
Infrastructure Library framework, an industry best practice for
service management and delivery. While a majority of the focus
was on helping clients build and support their IT infrastructure,
Dimension Data also developed new services to help clients
improve business processes and create business innovation
through IT. Our services strategy now extends from our
traditional model of helping clients ‘plan, build and support’
their IT infrastructure to include ‘manage, improve and
innovate’ services which help them improve their return on IT
investment and maximise the business impact of on-going
improvements and innovations. The evolution in our services
strategy positions us well to capitalise on the market trends
toward multisourcing and the outsourcing of smaller, more
specialised IT services. Evidence of early success around
multisourcing was the $40 million, three year multisourcing
contract we signed in March with the South Australia
Government.       
Dimension Data invested in the development of several new
Managed Service offerings across our lines of business, including
Managed Contact Centres, Managed IP Telephony, Managed
Backup and Managed Desktop. To gain improved flexibility in IT
sourcing options, clients are demanding more specialised IT
management services. Dimension Data is developing Managed
Services which relieve our clients from IT support tasks including
activities such as release management, change management,
problem resolution, and incident and configuration
management. As CIO’s strive to deliver improved business value,
Dimension Data is increasingly called on to provide services that
the IT department previously provided in-house.
Dimension Data believes that the required core network re-
architecture to ready the network for supporting the market
trends in security, IP telephony and convergence provide strong
professional services opportunities. Development of the
professional services business has been an important area of
focus as we pursue an evolutionary path from IT infrastructure
supplier, implementing technology solutions and providing break
fix and monitoring services, to strategic technology and business
partner. Our aim is to provide our clients with a full lifecycle of
services and become our clients’ trusted IT adviser. To this end,
we are developing more services led offerings such as
assessment, consulting and design services which pull through
both product sales and managed services engagements.    
The services alliance that Dimension Data signed with Cisco in
the US in FY2005 was expanded to include all regions. This
alliance allows us to offer clients a streamlined and simplified
engagement process for maintenance and monitoring services.
Our mutual clients benefit from Dimension Data's capabilities
such as local language help desk support, restoration service
level agreements and service delivery management. Within the
US, our services partnership with Cisco has helped accelerate
our Services growth and helped the Group develop new client
relationships with large global corporations.
ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER EXPANSION
Whilst our primary growth strategy is organic, we have looked to
complement our footprint through selected acquisitions.
Opportunities and market growth rates in the emerging markets
of Africa justified further expansion during FY2006. In the first
half, we acquired the remaining 20% stake in Internet Solutions.
Internet Solutions is an important asset to the Group and having
100% of a leading communications service provider in Africa is a
key competitive advantage. We also purchased the remaining
51% of Plessey, a leading supplier of telecommunications
solutions to the African continent. We established an East African
regional presence by acquiring a 51% stake in ICL East Africa.   
Outside of acquisitions we expanded by opening additional
offices. In the US we expanded west into Chicago, Seattle,
Phoenix and northern California. In Africa, we opened two
additional regional offices in Nigeria. Additionally, to gain a
foothold and position ourselves for future growth in Eastern
Europe, we expanded into Prague, Czech Republic. Our
expansion strategy is supported by growth in our client base –
particularly large global and multinational clients – whose
business requirements justify an expanded Dimension Data
footprint.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENTS
While we are excited about our overall performance as a Group
and the continued validation of our operational strategy, we
experienced some challenges in FY2006 – notably the
performances of Europe and the Merchants Group.
CEO’S REVIEW
continued PAGE 13
DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
Although Europe’s revenue growth of 9% (excluding
Merchants) was satisfactory, the region’s operating result was
disappointing. Following the appointment of a new
management team in Europe, encouraging progress has been
made in certain areas, notably in Germany, Spain and Italy, but
performance was negatively affected by disappointing results
from the UK and from the Merchants Group. Steps have been
taken to address both these underperforming businesses. The
UK and Irish operations of the Merchants Group have been
rationalised.
AN OPERATIONAL STRATEGY 
THAT WORKS
Our FY2006 performance was achieved through focus on three
operational strategies: Profitable Growth, Client Experience, and
People and Culture. In FY2007, we have added one additional
strategy – Operational Excellence. These four strategies give our
global organisation a clear road map and set of performance
expectations. We are also incorporating a balanced scorecard
approach to how we manage execution and results.  Increasing
organisational discipline is part of the Group’s on-going
development of a high performance culture. 
Our goal of driving long term shareholder value can only be
attained through profitable growth. In FY2007, we have four main
drivers of profitable growth – our LoBs, services business, growth
from targeted clients and productivity improvements. Firstly, we
are poised to gain more share in our key markets. The investments
we have made in our LoBs have been on target. Our FY2007
growth is not dependent on the development of any new LoBs,
but rather focuses on investment and execution within our
existing LoBs. By applying our strengths in networking, security, IP
telephony and other technology areas, we have the opportunity to
gain greater market share within our existing markets. In FY2007,
we will have a particular emphasis on growth from services – both
Managed and Professional services. We will also improve our focus
on account penetration to strengthen client relationships and
services adoption within our client base.  Lastly, we will enhance
our productivity through increased efficiency, effectiveness and the
adoption of consistent, quality processes across the business.    
Client relationships are what drive our business. The client
experience when engaging with Dimension Data will determine
client satisfaction, spend levels with Dimension Data and,
ultimately, whether a given client becomes a life-long client. Client
management has always been a strength of the Group. However,
we have opportunities to improve our account planning, cross-
border client engagement and overall client relationship
management. Our clients see our local expertise and delivery
capabilities as a clear differentiator. The consistency and quality of
this delivery experience sets us apart from our competition.
Excellent, high quality delivery is all about excellent, high quality
employees. Ultimately, the quality of our technology specialists,
our passion, and the fact that we just get the job done keeps
clients coming back.  
In FY2007 we will focus on operational excellence. We need to
create or enhance processes to bring more precision to our
execution. Several important areas are targeted. In our Services
business, we need to increase the services we attach to Product,
execute on the Cisco Service Alliance, and improve our
Professional Services operations. We must continuously enhance
our value propositions, gain maturity across our global LoBs and
substantially enhance our go-to-market capability.  
With employees who are passionate and aligned to our Group
strategy, we are hard to beat in the marketplace. To help better
align employees to our strategy, our people and culture initiatives
will focus on the introduction of new tools to map our regional
and functional executions to the achievement of Group strategy.
Our performance management, and recognition and reward
programmes, will be aligned to support the execution of our
strategic objectives. Our Group values will continue to guide how
we engage with each other, clients and partners. We will also be
looking to develop more career development opportunities
including on-the-job knowledge and skills expansion in addition to
conventional training programmes.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Officer PAGE 14
Dimension Data’s Asia clients are supported by the
Bangalore-based Global Service Centre. Clients are
serviced in multiple Asian languages.  
In Asia we experienced a steady flow of large regional,
multi-year annuity contracts during FY2006. Clients
continued to recognise the value of entrusting us with
the management and support of their IT infrastructure.
Korea, India, Indonesia and New Zealand all contributed
to the robust growth in Managed Services revenue within
Asia.
The Bangalore Global Service Centre benefited from
FY2006 efforts to increase utilisation, efficiency and
services quality. Benchmarking showed that we compare
favourably with the top-tier managed IT service
competitors in terms of service delivery costs.
RISING FROM BANGALORE, INDIA
Monitoring and managing over 15,000
devices and over 40,000 elements.
