 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 10
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
STRATEGIC DIRECTION BECOMES
OPERATIONAL RESULTS
Our accomplishments in 2007 were achieved by
successfully executing our business strategy and
harnessing growth opportunities created by major
changes in the market. The four components of
our business strategy – driving profitable growth,
offering a world class client experience, delivering
operational excellence to our clients, and
investing in our people and our culture – have
propelled us forward. Our focus, coupled with
strong execution across all geographies and client
segments, resulted in exceptional growth and
progress in our business.
The cornerstone of our profitable growth strategy is to
ensure we identify and then aggressively target growth
opportunities in the market. Several years ago we
identified a number of emerging market trends that we
believed would be significant for the industry, our
clients and our business. We summarised these trends
into three main opportunities for Dimension Data. 
Brett Dawson Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 11
We refer to these opportunities as the converged
network, the converged client and multisourcing. 
The converged network provides us the opportunity to
exploit the convergence of multiple services including
data, voice and video onto a common Internet Protocol
(IP)-based technology platform. The converged client
opportunity is about how we take advantage of the
emerging trends of unified communications and
collaboration, while multisourcing offers clients new
flexibility in IT sourcing. We aligned our business
strategy, investment strategy, competencies and
execution capabilities to capitalise on these market
opportunities. Today, it is rewarding to look back on our
consistent growth and the rapid market share gains we
have made by focusing on these three opportunities.
The record revenues and financial performance of 2007
continue to validate our strategic direction.
CAPITALISING ON MARKET TRENDS
In 2007 we have once again been successful in
converting the converged network opportunity.
Several factors are driving our growth. The basic
corporate communications network is in an
investment cycle where a refresh of many of its
foundation technologies such as routers and switches
is occurring. The increasing adoption of IP as a
standard is enabling our clients to drive
standardisation of their IT architectures, and thus
enable substantial consolidation and centralisation of
their overall IT infrastructure, providing improved
effectiveness and substantial ROI for their business. 
In addition, we see our clients preparing their
infrastructure for convergence and embedding
security into their IT infrastructure. 
Convergence of voice onto the data network has been
driven by the increasing adoption of voice over IP
(VOIP). We have over the past few years been
positioning our business to secure this opportunity.
The exceptional growth we have achieved in our
Converged Communications line of business is clear
evidence that the promise of the IP-based converged
network is becoming a reality. The operational cost
savings and productivity improvements of integrating
all the right
moves
maintaining a competitive edge will
enable us to win in the marketplace Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 12
Chief Executive Officer’s review
voice, video and data onto one infrastructure are now
leading our clients to large scale deployment of
converged communications-related technologies –
particularly IP telephony. 
We are starting to see early evidence of success
associated with clients adopting unified
communication and collaboration technologies.
Consumers are becoming more mobile and are
increasingly demanding access to any application,
using any device, from anywhere in the world, to be
more productive. They bring their personal productivity
expectations into the workplace and create new
requirements for the corporate IT infrastructure. Market
experts refer to this trend as the ‘consumerisation of
IT’. In order to provide end users with a seamless
experience we are focused on providing our clients
with services and solutions that enhance, integrate and
optimise their network, operating systems and
messaging infrastructures.
While the converged network is in a growth phase, the
converged client is still in an early phase of market
adoption. Our business is focused on exploiting these
opportunities. 
Our Services revenue expanded dramatically this year
reflecting increased market uptake of our Managed
and Professional Services. We are succeeding in our
intent to be more services-led. In addition, changes are
occurring in how clients source IT infrastructure and
services. Traditionally, many clients either managed IT
in-house or outsourced to an IT service provider.
Currently, clients are opting for a multisourcing
approach to IT sourcing. Multisourcing involves a
blended model where selected IT functions are
outsourced to specialists, while other functions are
maintained in-house. While the adoption of this model
is at an early stage, the business drivers that gave rise
to the need for new sourcing strategies, like the
ongoing skills shortage and the need for IT to show
greater alignment with business needs and outcomes,
are here to stay. Exploiting this opportunity is a key
opportunity for Dimension Data and we are starting to
see greater momentum on this front. 
PLAYING IN MARKETS THAT MATTER
In every market category – geography, client segment,
or vertical market – Dimension Data performed
exceptionally well this year. 
From a geographic perspective we performed strongly
across all five regions, with revenue growth and
expanded operating margins across the board.
Dimension Data’s presence in over 40 countries
around the world differentiates us from our
competitors. Having grown our business out of
developing markets into developed markets,
Dimension Data is often the partner of choice for global
and multinational clients. 
Robust revenue growth from our global and
multinational client segment during 2007 was
associated with international expansion, convergence
and standardisation projects. Our differentiation is not
merely in our footprint, but in our ability to provide
local, in-country expertise and delivery capabilities that
few competitors can match. 
The mid-sized market also contributed to growth.
While large enterprises have significant IT departments
in-house, our mid-sized clients rely on us to support
them more extensively in the building and management
of their IT infrastructure. A lack of internal resources
and difficulty in attracting and retaining IT professionals
were factors which often contributed to mid-sized
enterprises’ drive to partner with Dimension Data. 
Service providers including telecommunications
providers, mobile operators, internet service providers
(ISPs) and cable operators continued to represent a
large segment for the Group across most of our
regions. In 2007, Dimension Data helped service
providers build and develop their revenue-generating
networks to support new services and applications for
their consumer and business customers. Our expertise
across the service provider market is diverse. In Africa
we deployed and integrated a 120 site, turnkey GSM
infrastructure. For a Korean ISP, we took responsibility
for the maintenance of their entire IP backbone. In
Europe, we helped a large cable operator implement a
Euro-DOCSIS 2.0 platform. We also partnered with
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 13
international telecommunications providers to provide IT
implementation and support services for their global
enterprise customers in geographies where the
providers have little or no presence of their own. And
elsewhere in Africa, our additional capabilities through
Internet Solutions and Plessey drove growth associated
with the expanding market opportunity driven by
deregulation and increased telecommunications spend.
Dimension Data’s long-standing relationships with
many of the world’s leading financial services
companies have helped us grow revenues across
multiple lines of business within this segment. In 2007,
financial services companies focused their IT
investments on expanding and securing their core
network, consolidating and migrating data centres
and driving improved customer experience in the
contact centre. Globalisation, the implementation of
environmentally-friendly IT practices and a move
toward increasing client intimacy led these
investments in IT solutions and services. We refreshed
the core network across ten countries in Asia for one
of the world’s largest banks. We implemented a
storage area networking solution and disaster
recovery plan for a US-based financial services
company. In Africa, we renewed an operations
maintenance and support contract for a fully
outsourced financial services network. 
We made strong progress in providing services to the
public sector. In South Africa, we built an emergency
and disaster response centre to support provincial
response on a 24 x 7 basis. In Australia, we helped the
government expand their capabilities to deliver
emergency medical health services to residents in rural
locations. Within a large city in the US, we enhanced
the information-sharing capabilities of the criminal
justice department to improve judicial service delivery
to the citizenry. We believe strong investments in IT by
governments across the globe will continue to provide
opportunities for the Group. Government’s pursuit to
deliver innovative services, improve government
accessibility and gain cost efficiencies, requires a
partner with diverse yet deep domain expertise across
all aspects of IT infrastructure.
EXECUTING WITH EXCELLENCE 
Focused execution paves the way to exceptional
financial performance. In 2007 our revenues increased
23%, operating profit grew 55%
(1)
and earnings per
share rose 180%
(1)
. This performance could only be
achieved through the dedication and teamwork of our
10,600 talented employees. Our annual client
satisfaction survey echoes this sentiment, with many
clients commenting on the exceptional calibre of
committed Dimension Data employees. Attracting and
retaining the right employees who reflect our values
and the winning Dimension Data spirit was a priority
playing in markets 
that matter
Note:
(1)
Before exceptional items. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 14
Chief Executive Officer’s review
during the year. Our employees’ persistence to
exceed client expectations continued to set us apart in
the marketplace. 
Constantly striving to improve our execution also
brings excellence to our business. Extracting
operational improvements and efficiencies continued
to be a focus during the year. Several areas were
priorities for investment including our quote to delivery
cycle, sales automation and the systems supporting
service delivery. 
Driven by the globalisation trend within many large
enterprises, Dimension Data’s expertise and
capabilities to configure, source, ship, deliver, install
and maintain IT technology around the world remains
a key differentiator. Dimension Data Direct, the
Group’s e-procurement solution, experienced
exponential growth resulting in quotes to clients and in
purchase orders processed. Dimension Data Direct
simplifies the quote to invoice process through
integration and automation. It increases productivity
and reduces quote and order administration.
Dimension Data Direct also supports services
revenues by incorporating quotes for Professional,
Support and Managed Services into every product
sale. Although it is still completing a global roll-out,
Dimension Data Direct has already delivered large
operational efficiencies to the Group. 
To enhance clients’ order fulfilment, we improved our
systems to provide global visibility of the real-time
status and movement of orders from order placement
to the point of delivery. We also added features to
provide clients with better visibility of global purchase
patterns and to track the international shipment
documentation process. To simplify and streamline
communication about technology shipment status, we
also established a Client Services Centre.
From an internal perspective, our efforts to automate
our sales processes also advanced. All sales
employees now operate off one sales pipeline
management tool, allowing us to gain consistent
visibility across accounts and regions. We are now
able to track and align key sales performance metrics
across our regional businesses and to enhance
collaboration enabling cross-sell and international
opportunities. These improvements have also allowed
us to establish a platform for a globally consistent
client database. 
To improve our clients’ support we enhanced our
services platform with two upgrades to the Global
Service Operating Architecture (GSOA). These
upgrades improved functionality and platform stability
and allowed us to offer new managed services. 
A WINNING FUTURE
Our continued success in the marketplace is all about
our employees; their expertise and their
determination to deliver a world class client
experience. At Dimension Data, it is critical for us to
attract and retain the right individuals, who will
succeed in our high performance culture. During the
year we made several investments to improve the
employee experience at Dimension Data. We built
new systems to better attract candidates. Our
induction programmes were improved so that
employees can become more effective early in their
careers. The continued education of employees 
to improve their skills and gain new technical
competencies and certifications was a priority. A new
programme, to further develop the top leaders across
the globe and assist with succession management,
was also implemented. The yearly increase in our
annual employee survey scores indicate that, while
there are still areas for improvement, overall our
employees are very happy with their employee
experience at Dimension Data. 
We work hard at building and enhancing our
partnerships with the market leading IT technology
manufacturers whose technologies we integrate into
our clients’ IT infrastructures. Building winning
relationships with these market leaders and other
specialised manufacturers allows us to deepen our
technical competencies and integration experience.
Partnering with these leaders positions us to capture
the integration opportunities associated with market
changes. The opportunity provided by convergence
and, in the future, unified communications requires
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 15
integration across many disparate components of IT
infrastructure and technology. During 2007, we were
recognised for our breadth of technical expertise and
experience with over 80 awards from our partners.
OUTLOOK
This financial year was one of significant progress and
success on many fronts. Our diversified geographic
footprint and ability to provide technical expertise to
our clients in their local markets, continue to provide
significant competitive advantage for us. The Group is
benefiting from favourable macro IT industry trends,
and we continue to see a number of exciting
opportunities before us, such as the deregulation and
expansion of telecommunication services, the adoption
of a converged IP-based IT infrastructure, and the
emergence of unified communications. 
We have not been adversely impacted to date by
current macro economic uncertainties, although we
continue to monitor developments closely. We expect
to deliver strong organic revenue growth in the financial
year ahead, albeit at rates that are expected to
moderate somewhat from the exceptional growth
achieved in 2007. Supported by ongoing investment
and a strong balance sheet, we expect to achieve
growth across all lines of business and remain
confident that the Group is well positioned to drive
further operational leverage and profitable growth.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Officer
