 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 8
2007 was another year of excellent performance by the
Group. Every region delivered positive results
underpinned by increased margins and improved
Group cash holdings. Europe improved its financial
performance on all fronts. Africa experienced strong
growth driven by infrastructure expansion by
telecommunication service providers and government.
Americas experienced a strong second half after a
slow start to the year. Australia also delivered strong
profits.  In Asia we continued the positive trend toward
healthier margins by increasing IT services sales. 
On the back of this solid performance, we are pleased
to propose to shareholders that the Group increase its
dividend to 1.5 US cents per share.
While we maintained a steadfast focus on execution,
healthy market conditions also supported our growth
during the year. IT growth rates in all markets were
strong and our global footprint and local execution
capabilities continue to enhance our positioning.
Consolidation in the systems integration market also
provided opportunities for market share gains as
competitors focused on post-merger activities.  
The continued deregulation of telecommunications
within many countries offered new opportunities and will
continue to make this sector and service providers
highly attractive for the Group. 
While market opportunities remain robust, our ability to
convert these into revenue is reliant on our talented
employee base. Salary pressures and competition for
Chairman’s letter
Jeremy Ord Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 9
cause 
and 
effect
observing the
market and
acting fast
Subsequently we sold 60% to a group comprising a
Black Economic Empowerment consortium and
VenFin.
Our technology partnerships with industry leaders like
Cisco and Microsoft continue to benefit us and our
clients by providing early access to the latest technology
advancements and products. The strength of our
partnerships directly benefits our clients as we are well-
positioned to help them navigate through an ever
increasing array of technologies and vendors. 
We enter our 25th anniversary year in 2008 as a strong,
vibrant business. To have reached a quarter century in
the IT industry is a significant achievement. 
The future looks promising, the Group has maintained
excellent focus and our ability to deliver and provide
support continues to grow and prosper. Whilst market
conditions are robust at present, we are very aware of
the turbulence in some of our major market sectors and
are keeping a close watch on all the important indicators
in our business.
I’d like to thank our employees, executive management
team, clients, and technology partners for their ongoing
commitment and dedication to Dimension Data, without
which our success would not have been possible. 
I would also like to thank our Board for their continued
support in creating a Group that we can all be extremely
proud of.
Jeremy Ord
Chairman
talent contributed to a highly competitive employment
market – particularly for experienced, technical
employees – and recruitment and retention remained 
a top priority during the year. 
The alignment of our employee incentive programmes to
the financial performance of the Group is critical to
combating competitive pressures for top talent. To this
end, Dimension Data continued to invest in its Share
Appreciation Rights Scheme (SARS) and Long Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP). The first SARS and LTIP
instruments issued during 2005 are eligible for vesting at
the end of 2007, and I am pleased to report that the
performance criteria for the first SARS instruments,
based on the cumulative three year earnings of the
Group, have been met.  
While our primary strategy is one of organic growth, the
Group completed several joint venture agreements,
acquisitions and disposals. In Asia we entered into a
joint venture agreement with Sumisho Joho Corporation
in Japan. We opened offices in Saudi Arabia and United
Arab Emirates and subsequently renamed our Africa
region, Middle East and Africa.  We extended our North
American region into the Americas by acquiring a
controlling interest in our Brazilian partner and opening
offices in Mexico and Canada. In Europe, we opened
operations in the Czech Republic through the acquisition
of Unreal Technology and sold our operations in
Sweden. We established a new software holdings
company, Britehouse, and transferred our interest in
Pebbletree, 3Fifteen and Paracon into this company.
