 Chairman’s  
letter
As a start-up, our targeted competitors were industry giants. Today, those giants are both our 
competitors and our peers. Most of our initial clients are still clients today, testament to the 
enduring quality of the solutions and services we provide, as well as an ongoing commitment 
to customer care, satisfaction and relationships. I remain convinced that strong relationships 
are the hallmark of a successful business and continue to value every client as if they were 
our first. 
In 1983 we had a simple vision; we wanted to do great things in what we believed was a 
burgeoning new era in communication and collaboration. Dimension Data chose its sweet 
spot carefully, had the vision to understand the future, and is now a market leader in the field. 
These achievements would not have been possible without a strong core of talented people, 
equipped with the right vision and the technical skills needed to achieve it. We are fortunate 
to have a full spectrum of these people at Dimension Data, many of whom have been with the 
company since the early days. From the onset, we imbued our work with a culture of passion, 
commitment and determination. We decided then that it was crucial, not just to work hard, but 
to enjoy what we do - ideals which prevail unabated and undiluted 25 years on. 
As the Group – and the market – have evolved and matured, so too have our solutions and 
services. Today, the Group’s core Systems Integration business comprises 77% of our annual 
revenue and offers specialist IT infrastructure solutions via Network Integration, Converged 
Communications, Security, Data Centre and Storage, Customer Interactive Solutions and 
Microsoft Solutions. In recent years, clients’ IT sourcing strategies have changed to a best-
in-class mix of in-house and outsourced IT services. Dimension Data anticipated this shift 
and has over the past several years invested in developing a full lifecycle of IT services for our 
clients across our lines of business. 
In 2008, Dimension Data celebrated its 25th year of business. This is a significant 
achievement; few other IT companies have such longevity, they are usually either bought, 
merged or simply fold. It is a source of great pride for me that from such small beginnings 
– a start-up of three determined people – we are now a company of approximately 
11,000 people with offices in 47 different countries across the globe. A turnover of 
close to R300,000 in 1983 has expanded to over US$4.5 billion in 2008, and we are 
recognised by clients and partners alike as a leader in our sector of the market. On the 
back of another year of solid performance, we are pleased to propose to shareholders 
that the Group increase its dividend to 1.7 US cents per share.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 5
Jeremy Ord
25 years 
of...
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008
Annual Report 2008
Still doing 
great things
Most of our initial clients are still 
clients today, testament to the 
enduring quality of the solutions 
and services we provide, as well 
as an ongoing commitment to 
customer care, satisfaction and 
relationships. Outside our global Systems Integration business, there are a few other businesses that 
operate within specific regions, the largest being Internet Solutions and Plessey in Middle 
East and Africa and Express Data in Australia. Taken together, these businesses and other 
smaller regional businesses represent 23% of the Group’s annual revenue and while not part 
of our globally consistent, core offerings, offer strategic differentiation in the specific regions 
that they operate. 
Our continued investments in our Systems Integration business and other regional businesses 
will reflect the market opportunities we believe are playing out in our regions. Post period 
we completed the acquisition of the remaining 44.9% stake in Datacraft, a company with 
which we have enjoyed a strong and successful partnership for 11 years. Despite the near 
term economic environment, we continue to be bullish in the medium to long term on the 
opportunities throughout Asia and India. 
The current economic climate is both fragile and challenging. During the downturn of the 
early 2000s, it was our industry in the eye of the storm; the IT bubble burst on an industry 
that had over promised and under delivered. It was a difficult time for us; but not only did 
we weather the storm, we emerged stronger. Our business model is now exponentially more 
mature, robust and sustainable because of the challenges we had to face. Furthermore, we 
are fortunate that our offering to the market is of fundamental importance to the majority of 
companies and delivers value through cost savings, operational efficiency improvements and 
productivity gains. I am not saying that we will not feel the effects of this current slowdown 
- we are not immune to the current economic crisis and will, no doubt, be affected. I am 
confident, however, in the inherent health of both our business and the IT industry as a whole. 
To protect this health, we have adopted a very conservative approach and are continually 
monitoring a wide range of parameters within the business. 
A commitment to excellence, over the past 25 years, has shaped Dimension Data into the 
market leading company it is today. The health of our business, coupled with our maturity 
and our agility, will pave the way for tomorrow. It is an ongoing commitment, however, to our 
corporate responsibilities that will help us build a better tomorrow in which to celebrate the 
next 25 years of our business. 
Environmental responsibility has become everybody’s business. It constitutes a critical 
area of opportunity, both in terms of our business and in terms of our future. Through our 
submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project, we have declared our intention to tackle this 
challenge as part of a comprehensive environmental commitment. Our solutions and services 
already feature a range of energy-efficient options for clients. These solutions have been 
readily implemented into our own operations and have afforded significant efficiency and 
productivity improvements. We have, for example, employed the use of visual communication 
Our continued investments in our 
Systems Integration business 
and other regional businesses will 
reflect the market opportunities 
we believe are playing out in our 
regions.
Chairman’s  
letter continued
A commitment to excellence, over 
the past 25 years, has shaped 
Dimension Data into the market 
leading company it is today. The 
health of our business, coupled 
with our maturity and our agility, 
will pave the way for tomorrow.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 6 technologies throughout the Group, enabling us to reduce our carbon footprint, minimise 
travel costs and improve employee productivity. We will continue to ensure that our future 
is - at the very least - a Dimension Data shade of green. 
It remains for me to thank the many people and organisations without which the last 25 years 
would not have been possible. 
Thank you to our executive management and Board; the Group is in a healthy positive position 
thanks to your strong management and sound business advice. 
Thank you to our clients for your unwavering loyalty over the years; we look forward to serving 
you for the next 25 and beyond.
Thank you to our partners for their technology leadership and commitment.
To all Dimension Data employees, past and present, my heartfelt thanks. Your unswerving 
commitment to excellence is invaluable. It has made the Group what it is today and laid the 
foundations for future success.
Jeremy Ord 
Executive Chairman
Thank you to our clients for 
your unwavering loyalty over 
the years; we look forward to 
serving you for the next 25 
and beyond.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 7 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 8
