 Overview
The Group’s performance over the past financial year has been excellent, with strong revenue 
growth of 19.5%. We have maintained our gross margin and driven operating profit
(1)
 growth 
of 39.1% to an operating margin of 4.0% - a position that puts us firmly on track to achieve our 
medium term goal of 5% for the Group. The benefits have manifested themselves in significant 
EPS growth of 28.3%. In addition to our improved financial results, our cash generation during 
the period was excellent, driven by disciplined working capital management.
Our strong financial results are testament to the ongoing success of the Group’s strategy, as 
evident in the outstanding rate of Services growth, which hit 19.5% this year. This now reflects 
a compound annual growth rate of 22% over the past three years and is a significant and 
resounding achievement for the Group. 
We achieved growth across all of our businesses. In our largest business, the Systems 
Integration (SI) business, which accounts for 77.1% of revenues and operates in 47 countries 
around the world under the Dimension Data and Datacraft brands, we grew by 18.8%, 
evidencing a growing market share and strengthening competitive position. The performance 
was underscored by the achievement of a number of significant awards. 
Within our regional businesses, Internet Solutions and Plessey, both of which address the 
growing telecommunications sectors in Africa, achieved strong growth. In Express Data, our 
Australian distribution business, the rate of growth was more muted. 
Strong geographic performances in all regions reflect the improving robustness of our 
business model. Accelerated revenue growth was evident in all regions, but the emerging 
markets of Asia and Middle East and Africa led the Group with outstanding revenue growth 
of 23.9% and 27.1%, respectively. Operating profit improved across all geographies, with an 
exceptional improvement of 108.5% in Europe. Australia and Middle East and Africa posted 
particularly healthy improvements in their operating margins. 
Chief Executive  
Officer’s review
Brett Dawson
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 9
Revenue up 19.5%
$ 4.5b
Earnings per share up 28.3%
 
to
7.7 US cents
Operating profit up 39.1%
(1)
$ 182.2m
05 06 07 08
5
4
3
2
1
0
Operating margin
%
* Before exceptional items
0
1
2
3
4
5
2.1
2.8
3.5
4.0 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 10
Chief Executive  
Officer’s review continued
The Group has enjoyed robust growth over the past few years and even in the current market 
conditions there are still a number of key areas within which clients are willing, and continuing, 
to invest. We continue to see our clients’ sourcing strategies evolve and believe that the 
present market conditions will prove particularly conducive to the benefits of Multisourcing, 
whereby clients can outsource specific elements of their IT environment to ‘best-of-breed’ 
IT service providers while retaining other IT functions in-house. Over the past few years, we 
have been investing in positioning ourselves for these opportunities and, during the period, 
we have started to see signs of early wins across several geographies and are optimistic of 
future growth opportunities. 
Deploying technology which can drive cost reduction opportunities for our clients is currently 
a real opportunity for Dimension Data. During FY2008 we have developed and introduced 
a number of services that play to this focus, including ITSM, performance optimisation, 
virtualisation and power and cooling assessment services, all of which are gaining 
market traction. Likewise, data centre consolidation, technology refresh projects, security 
consolidation and server and storage virtualisation remain strong drivers in the move towards 
cost and capacity optimisation and the focus of significant market interest. In addition, many 
of these cost saving technologies require network re-architecture and optimisation; a fast and 
long-lasting return on investment makes them a priority investment for many clients. Over and 
above network investment being a pre-requisite for a myriad of cost saving technologies, the 
network itself remains an integral, mission critical component for the majority of enterprises. 
Security is proving to be equally insulated from budgetary caution; businesses simply cannot 
afford to have security breaches, data leaks and compliance failures. Companies may now be 
forced to make breaches public and explain their redress, a costly exercise in both monetary 
and reputational terms. Compliance can actually prove to be a business pre-requisite, 
particularly in the retail industry, and will often unlock IT spend with considerable speed. 
Security is the fastest growing line of business year on year within Dimension Data and we 
envisage continued market opportunities going forward. 
The push for increased operational efficiencies, cost reductions and environmental responsibility 
has also spawned a substantial client interest in the capabilities of visual communications 
technologies. These technologies reduce the need to outlay expensive travel and time 
resources, as well as minimising environmental impact, and have demonstrated tremendous 
growth. 
The successful execution of our business strategy – driving profitable growth, offering a 
world class client experience, delivering operational excellence to our clients, and investing 
in our people and culture – is clearly paying dividends. The recognition that the Group has 
received from its clients, vendors and employees, coupled with a proven ability to meet our 
commitments to all three, provides us with confidence as we head into less certain economic 
times.
We continue to see our clients’ 
sourcing strategies evolve and 
believe that the present market 
conditions will prove particularly 
conducive to the benefits of 
Multisourcing, whereby clients 
can outsource specific elements 
of their IT environment to ‘best-
of-breed’ IT service providers 
while retaining other IT functions 
in-house. 
The Group has enjoyed robust 
growth over the past few 
years and even in the current 
market conditions there are still 
a number of key areas within 
which clients are willing, and 
continuing, to invest.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 11
Strengthening our position
We regard our clients, our people and our partners as the barometers by which we measure 
our operational performance - an approach that continues to be a cornerstone of the 
Group’s success. Dimension Data currently holds a significant number of partner awards, 
an achievement which underscores our partners’ recognition of the breadth of our technical 
expertise and experience. We are particularly proud of our recent positioning, by leading 
industry analyst Gartner
1
, in their Magic Quadrant for Managed and Professional Network 
Service Providers, Worldwide, Eric Goodness et.al. 22 August 2008
2
, which examined  
14 vendors of IT services for business communication systems worldwide. We believe the 
recognition of our ability to execute and completeness of vision is testament to the Group’s 
commitment to delivering operational excellence to our clients, and proves that we are 
firmly on track with the execution and delivery of our Services strategy within the Systems 
Integration business. Our extensive experience providing integrated unified communications 
solutions has also garnered us strong recognition from the industry. 
The Group has always articulated the pivotal importance of investing in our employees. 
We strongly believe that our people are, and must continue to be, a key differentiator for 
the business. In enabling, developing and retaining excellence in our people we are able to 
pass the benefits of these attributes on to our clients. Our continued investments in training 
and development have earned industry recognition, specifically for our Internet Protocol 
Technology (IPT) initiatives. 
Our annual employee satisfaction survey shows its fourth year of improvement, and the 
retention of senior leadership within the Group is particularly strong, with an attrition of just 
4%. The past year has seen continued focus on expanding our employees’ accreditations 
across the board; we now hold almost 2,000 Microsoft certifications and well over a thousand 
Information Technology Information Library (ITIL) certifications. We have also increased our 
Cisco certifications by 20% over the past year, which now include 6 Master Certifications and 
295 CCIEs.
The Group’s improved financial performance comes against a backdrop of ongoing investment 
across the Systems Integration business, which will enable us to build for further future 
success. To achieve service delivery excellence and to improve the client experience across 
the services lifecycle, we have made systems, people and process related investments. To 
improve the integration and efficiency of our Global Services Operating Architecture (GSOA) 
we are in the process of implementing a globally consistent IT service management platform 
to enhance service delivery to our clients, create new revenue generating opportunities for the 
Group and improve our operational and cost efficiency.
1.  The Gartner Report(s) described herein, (the ‘Gartner Report(s)’) represent(s) data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated 
subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. (‘Gartner’), and are not representations of fact. Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date (and not 
as of the data of this Offering Memorandum) and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report(s) are subject to change without notice.
2.  The Gartner Magic Quadrant is copyrighted 22 August 2008 by Gartner, Inc. and is reused with permission. The Magic Quadrant is a graphical representation 
of a marketplace at and for a specific time period. It depicts Gartner’s analysis of how certain vendors measure against criteria for that marketplace, as 
defined by Gartner. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the Magic Quadrant, and does not advise technology users to 
select only those vendors placed in the ‘Leaders’ quadrant. The Magic Quadrant is intended solely as a research tool, and is not meant to be a specific 
guide to action. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for 
a particular purpose.
The Group’s improved financial 
performance comes against a 
backdrop of ongoing investment 
across the Systems Integration 
business, which will enable us to 
build for further future success.
05 06 07 08
Group overall employee
satisfaction score
0
1
2
3
4
3.58
3.71
3.79
3.82 Chief Executive  
Officer’s review continued
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 12
We have invested in a Group wide re-launch of Uptime, our maintenance service offering. We 
have introduced a new standard platform, systems and process for this offering in order to sell 
Uptime more profitably, increase contract revenue, reduce price churn and, at the same time, 
improve our client’s experience. Our Uptime service is an annuity revenue stream and success 
here improves the resilience of our business model. The Group has also invested in a Services 
International Project Office to accelerate and co-ordinate our response to global opportunities. 
We are driving towards total alignment with ITIL, an industry best practice framework for IT 
service delivery, across our services offerings. 
In addition to investment in the consistency of our operational delivery, we have also made 
investments in our go to market offerings to help orientate the business to a more services led 
approach. Our Secure Network Infrastructure Assessment (SNIA) identifies which hardware 
and software is in, or approaching, end-of-support and gives organisations the opportunity 
to update and standardise technology to ensure manufacturer support. This consultative 
approach can also help us identify further opportunities for infrastructure improvement within 
the organisation. Our Unified Communications Development Model (UCDM), which assists 
clients in building a strategic and operational roadmap to implement a unified communications 
strategy, has received significant industry and client recognition and helped enhance our 
reputation and credibility across our client base as thought leaders. 
We have seen similar strong interest and lead opportunities in our IT Service Management 
(ITSM) offering, which is a methodology driven, consultative approach to mapping service 
maturity. To address the business critical importance of network performance we developed 
the Network Performance Optimisation Assessment, which enables enterprises to extract 
maximum value and efficiency from their network. Our Power and Cooling Assessment has 
been developed to help organisations reduce their power requirements by optimising their 
infrastructure. In an era of spiralling energy and fuel costs, as well as increased environmental 
concerns and obligations, this service addresses yet another facet of our clients’ cost 
reduction objectives. Together with our existing services, these newer initiatives demonstrate 
the evolution of the Group’s offerings to meet emerging and changing market trends. 
The service provider market - which incorporates telecommunications providers, mobile 
operators, internet service providers (ISPs) and cable operators – represents roughly 26% 
of the Group’s revenue. The Systems Integration arm of the Dimension Data business is 
well positioned in this vertical and has ample opportunity to assist service providers in the 
deployment and ongoing management of their IT infrastructure. 
In addition to our Systems Integration offerings, the Group has exposure to the service 
provider market in Middle East and Africa through Plessey and Internet Solutions. Across 
the continent, the demand for access to telecommunication services is accelerating. Plessey 
The service provider 
market - which incorporates 
telecommunications providers, 
mobile operators, Internet service 
providers (ISPs) and cable 
operators – represents roughly 
26% of the Group’s revenue. Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 13
is strongly positioned to take advantage of the growth opportunities as their offerings are 
focused at telecommunication infrastructure solutions. Internet Solutions is a next generation 
communications provider that is particularly well positioned in South Africa and, as markets 
continue to deregulate and expand, increasingly positioned across the continent. We believe 
the business is strategically well placed within this evolving environment and, consequently, 
we have been investing and enhancing our offerings and capabilities. 
Outlook 
Over the last few years we have enjoyed tremendous momentum and consistent improvement 
as a business. The growth achieved has consistently been at rates greater than the market, 
indicating that we have been building our competitive strength and gaining market share from 
the competition. We believe that the long term fundamentals of the IT market segments in 
which we compete remain favourable and have good growth prospects. 
The FY2008 performance has been delivered against a weakening macro-economic 
environment. Despite the evident health, strength and ongoing improvement of our business, 
the current macro-economic conditions are a lot less favourable than before, and we expect 
that they will remain both fragile and uncertain for several quarters. Currency swings and the 
strength of the US dollar against most of our operating currencies are also likely to impact our 
reported results in the FY2009 financial year.
The global crisis of confidence which started in the financial markets is now undermining 
demand in most industries. Within this environment we expect the IT infrastructure market 
to be slower in general and that we will be affected accordingly. To counter the impact of 
these circumstances we will be prioritising our client engagement above all else and have 
implemented a conservative plan to manage our overhead base. We have tightened our 
investment and expenditure programme to match our view of short term market conditions 
and will continue to re-evaluate and adjust these on an ongoing basis. Our focus over the next 
six months will be on securing opportunities available in the market. We will balance this with 
a prudent expenditure and investment profile and tight cash management. 
The strength of the Group’s balance sheet, our market leading positioning and offerings, and 
our expansive geographic footprint provide us with confidence that we will successfully endure 
this market downturn and emerge in an enhanced competitive position.
Brett Dawson 
Chief Executive Officer
We believe that the long 
term fundamentals of the IT 
market segments in which we 
compete are favourable and 
have good growth prospects. Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 14
