 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     15
Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer’s review
In this review, growth rates are in relation to 2008 and are, unless otherwise indicated, calculated before 
eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements (i.e. are constant 
currency growth rates). Unless speciﬁcally indicated, exceptional items are excluded from the analysis.
Overview
The Group’ s robust performance over the past ﬁnancial year has resulted in improved returns 
and strong growth in proﬁtability. Given the extremely challenging economic conditions that 
prevailed over the period we did well to report ﬂat revenues overall in constant currency. 
Strong growth of 13.0% in services revenues drove an improvement in the gross margin 
and this, when combined with tight cost management, resulted in operating proﬁt growth 
of 25.4%. The Group’s operating margin grew to 4.9%, an excellent increase on FY2008’s 
4.0%. A further highlight of the results is good working capital management and strong 
cash generation, which resulted in a closing cash balance of $600 million. 
Dimension Data’s strong ﬁnancial results are testament to the ongoing progress with the 
Group’s proﬁtable growth strategy, which was introduced in FY2005. The key elements of 
this strategy have been to grow revenues ahead of the market, to maintain gross margins 
and to reduce overheads as a percentage of revenues, thereby driving an improvement 
in the operating margin and proﬁtability. Much progress has been made over the past 
four years. Over this period we have grown revenues ahead of the market, achieving 
a compound annual growth rate of 12.3%, our gross margin has moved up to 22.5% 
from 21.0%, costs as a percentage of revenues have reduced to 17.6% from 18.9% and 
operating proﬁt has more than tripled to $194.4 million from $56.7 million in FY2005. The 
Group’s operating margin is now 4.9% compared to 2.1% in FY2005.
A key feature of the FY2009 results is the excellent growth in services revenues. This 
was driven primarily by 19.3% growth in managed services in our Systems Integration 
(SI) business and by revenue growth of 27.9% in Internet Solutions. Professional services 
revenues (within SI), which tend to be more closely correlated with product revenues, 
increased by a pleasing but more modest 2.3%. Growth in services revenues offset a 
decline of 7.5% in total product revenues, a commendable achievement in a tough 
market where demand was impacted by sharp cuts in capital expenditure in several of our 
traditional client segments.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
20
21
22
23
09 08 07 06 05
21.0
21.1
21.5
21.6
22.5
Gross margin
Percent 16     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
At the ﬁrst signs of the global slowdown affecting our business in late 2008, we moved quickly 
to counteract the impact of a slower demand environment by managing and cutting costs in 
speciﬁc areas where action was warranted, most notably in the US and Asia. These measures 
protected proﬁtability and helped drive the operating leverage that the Group achieved during the 
year. Notwithstanding the signiﬁcant focus on short term cost management, we have continued 
to invest in areas important to the Group’ s longer term positioning and growth prospects. 
We achieved good performances across the majority of the Group’s businesses. Our SI 
business, which accounts for 80.6% of total revenues, performed particularly well. The SI 
business strengthened its competitive position, successfully harnessing market trends from 
both a technology and client sourcing perspective. The SI business in particular beneﬁted 
from strong growth in managed services which drove higher gross and operating margins 
for the Group. 
Within the SI business, the Converged Communications, Security Solutions and Microsoft 
Solutions lines of business all delivered good growth as our clients embraced uniﬁed 
communications and focused on technologies which could optimise existing infrastructure 
and reduce costs. Growth in these areas compensated for a slowdown in Network Integration, 
Data Centre and Storage Solutions and Customer Interactive Solutions, following cuts and 
delays to more capital intensive projects.
Looking at our SI business from a regional perspective and in the context of an environment 
where product revenues came under enormous pressure, particularly in the US and Asia 
where product declined 34.5% and 23.7% respectively, it is gratifying to be able to report that 
all ﬁve regions delivered growth in services revenues, and that four out of ﬁve regions achieved 
signiﬁcant operating proﬁt expansion and improved operating margins. The performance of 
the Americas region started to show a recovery in the fourth quarter of the year. Strong 
operating leverage was achieved in the SI business following the mix driven improved gross 
margin and tight control over costs.
Internet Solutions performed well over the period, with outstanding revenue growth of 27.9%. 
The excellent performance was driven by a clear focus on protecting and growing Internet 
Solutions’ core connectivity and data centre based services whilst successfully building our 
competitive position in our newer communications and carrier services. Some pressure at the 
gross margin level was offset by cost efﬁciencies and operating leverage. 
Plessey’s revenues declined marginally, impacted by the slow-down in capital expenditure 
and infrastructure rollouts by telecommunications service providers in Africa due to the 
prevailing economic conditions. Operating proﬁt was impacted by some gross margin 
pressure and the increased overhead base introduced in FY2008 in order to secure future 
growth opportunities. In response to the market changes Plessey has adjusted its cost base. 
Express Data strengthened its position as a premier value added distributor in Australia and 
New Zealand during the period. Revenue growth of 7.6% combined with stable margins and 
careful cost control resulted in strong expansion of operating proﬁt.
We achieved good 
performances across 
the majority of the 
Group’s businesses. 
Our SI business, 
which accounts 
for 80.6% of total 
revenues, performed 
particularly well. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     17
Services progress
While Internet Solutions and Plessey have always been services-led businesses, Dimension 
Data’s focus over the years on transitioning the SI business to a services-led organisation has 
been a key contributor to success in building our client experience strategy, enhancing our brand, 
driving competitive differentiation and in delivering on the Group’ s proﬁtable growth strategy. 
Our SI business journey 
Over the past few years the SI business has made signiﬁcant progress in evolving both its 
professional and annuity managed services offerings. Our professional service methodology 
and offerings have expanded signiﬁcantly to include numerous assessment services, planning 
and design services, and implementation and consulting services. In our annuity services, our 
journey has been one of increasing our capabilities beyond basic maintenance towards offering 
clients true managed services where we pro-actively monitor and manage their IT assets and 
processes. During the period we also secured some encouraging wins in several geographies 
where we are taking responsibility for the management of our clients’ entire IT operations. 
In FY2009 we continued to reap the beneﬁts of our investment in services. Over the past 
four years the Group’s services revenues have grown by a compound annual growth rate of 
17.3% and services revenues now represent 43.6% of Group revenue compared to 38.1% 
in FY2005.
Operational Excellence
Strategic 

Strategic
Manage IT Operations
Managed services
Service led
Service attach
Technical expertise
Product fulﬁlment
IT 
Infrastructure 
Supplier 18     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
Our clients 
Continued focus on operational excellence remains a key tenet of the Group strategy around 
delivering a superior client experience, and during the year we were involved in multiple 
initiatives aimed at further enhancing this experience. 
The key areas of client demand in FY2009 from a technology perspective have been around 
network optimisation, visual communications, IP telephony, virtualisation and consolidation of 
data centres and Windows 7 for Microsoft. Clients have focused on maintaining and optimising 
their existing IT infrastructure as capital budgets reduced. We have also beneﬁted from a 
general trend towards standardisation and centralisation of IT to reduce costs and centralise 
control. This trend provides us with good managed services opportunities as multinational 
clients consolidate services suppliers and move to partners that can support multi-vendor 
technologies on a multinational basis. 
Within our client segments, we experienced weakness in demand in our top 30 global clients, 
which make up 15% (18% in FY2008) of revenues, particularly in global ﬁnancial services 
clients in North America and Asia. Financial services revenues overall were, nevertheless, 
relatively stable, with a strong performance in the regional and domestic ﬁnancial services 
client base. We reacted to the slow-down in spend in our global client sector by broadening 
our exposure to clients in the large regional enterprise and commercial segments of the 
market where we saw relatively better opportunities. 
The service provider vertical was quite resilient and our revenues increased due to our 
focus on services rather than technology fulﬁlment in this vertical. We have beneﬁted from 
subcontracting opportunities in large service provider clients who have partnered with us 
to execute global contracts. We have also secured good business through partnering with 
second tier and mobile service providers.
The public sector vertical has been another area of focus and one in which we have performed 
well in FY2009. Our public sector business has been particularly strong in Australia and South 
Africa. We have also seen good contract wins across the Americas, Europe and Asia. We are 
planning further investment during FY2010 in this vertical across our regions. 
People and culture
Dimension Data has always believed that our people and culture are key differentiators in the 
market and essential to the success of the Group. We work hard at cultivating a winning, high 
performance culture. The success of our efforts has been reﬂected in widespread recognition 
from industry leaders and the winning of a number of exceptional awards. These include the 
Australia and New Zealand Hewitt Best Employer for 2009 for Express Data, a ranking of 9th 
place in the Corporate Research Foundation’s 2009/2010 Best Employers in Middle East and 
Africa as well as 9th position for Datacraft India in Dataquest’s ‘Top 10 Best IT Employers in 
2009’ award.
The total number of employees across the Group was 11,032 at year end which is ﬂat on the 
prior year. Whilst our people and culture strategy is a key cornerstone of our Group strategy, 
it was necessary to respond to the prevailing economic environment during the year. Our 
approach was to take rapid action early in the year to reduce costs where necessary due 
to a reduced demand. In contrast, we also invested and sought to maximise opportunities 
for growth wherever possible. This dual approach resulted in head count reductions in some 
geographies and businesses, and growth in others.
We work hard at 
cultivating a winning, 
high performance 
culture. The success 
of our efforts has 
 in widespread 
recognition from 
industry leaders 
and the winning 
of a number of 
exceptional awards.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     19
In addition, we invested in building people strength during the course of the year, adding to 
our Microsoft skills organically and through the Teksys acquisition, and increasing head count in 
Internet Solutions and our SI business through acquisitions in Angola, Mozambique and Australia.
During the year the Group made a number of investments in enabling, developing and 
retaining excellence in our people. We deployed Leading Talent, a tailored programme for 
all line managers aimed at further developing our key leaders in the Group. We continued to 
drive the Dimension Data Job Framework project, which helps employees identify and plot 
their optimal career paths. With the recent stabilisation that we have seen in some of our end 
markets and in anticipation of some growth in FY2010, we are once again looking at modest 
additions to our key technical and sales skills in select areas of the business.
Partners
The Group enjoys unrivalled relationships with our key vendor partners. These have 
strengthened over the past year as we have continued to work closely with and invest in 
keeping our go-to-market strategies aligned. Key differentiators for Dimension Data are 
the breadth of technical talent within the Group and its unparalleled ability to execute with 
multiple partners. 
Dimension Data received a record number of awards and accolades over the past 
year, which are testament to our partners’ recognition of the breadth of the Group’s 
technical skills and experience. Key awards included Cisco Technology Excellence 
Partner along with 19 other Cisco awards, and Microsoft Global Partner of the Year in 
the three categories. In addition, we won awards from HP, Avaya, Tandberg, VMWare, 
BlueCoat, McAfee, Symantec, EMC, RSA and Nuance. Dimension Data achieved 21st 
place in Business Week’s Info Tech 100 list, which recognises top-performing technology 
companies across the globe. 
Investing for growth
Dimension Data’s healthy balance sheet, strong cash balance and excellent cash 
generating abilities, enable the Group to continue to invest to position the business for 
long term growth. 
The continued execution of our services strategy will be a priority for our SI business. 
We have made tremendous progress over the past few years and are excited about our 
prospects as we continue the journey. During the year we embarked upon a services 
acceleration programme with ﬁve key projects aimed at further enhancing our global 
services offerings. We will continue to invest in systems, processes and people to 
enhance our services offerings for our clients and improve our execution capabilities.
Our regional SI businesses are at varying levels of maturity along our services led strategy 
and we still have a way to go before our objective of offering a full lifecycle of services in 
all geographies is realised. It is however, clear to us that our services strategy is working 
and that we are on track to derive further beneﬁts from its ongoing implementation in the 
years ahead.
We constantly seek to align our go-to-market offerings with current and upcoming 
market trends, to ensure that we offer our clients solutions relevant to their business 
issues. From a technology market trend perspective, we will look to invest further in our 
capabilities and offerings in the network (as the core business infrastructure enabler),   20     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
uniﬁed communications and collaboration (including visual technologies) and virtualisation. 
For medium term opportunities we will be expanding our competence in cloud and 
service based infrastructure models. 
Internet Solutions is well positioned to benefit from market trends, and to build on the 
strong market position established over the years. Internet Solutions was awarded 
two telecommunications licences in South Africa which provide additional market 
opportunity. We have also embarked upon the application process to acquire licensed 
wireless spectrum, which would enable us to connect to our clients using both fixed 
and wireless links. 
We will continue to invest in Internet Solutions to secure our desired positioning as Africa’s 
leading internet-technology based service provider, offering a superior customer service 
experience. Our strategic priorities are, ﬁrstly, to invest in the required people, processes and 
capital expenditure required to secure the growth opportunity. We will also invest to enhance 
the customer service experience and we will expand our existing services offerings. Finally, 
we will continue to invest to secure lower input costs, such as our acquisition this year of local 
ﬁbre capacity to service our clients, and our commitment during the year to a new submarine 
cable bringing enhanced bandwidth capacity to the continent.
The Group’s proﬁtable growth strategy will largely be driven by organic growth in existing 
markets. We still have signiﬁcant opportunity to increase our market share in existing 
geographies and we intend to expand into several cities in Brazil and China next year. We will, 
in addition, target two types of acquisitions - the ﬁrst to expand our footprint and the second 
where we need additional skills to enhance the Group’s IP and hasten our route to market. 
In addition to the purchase of the minority shareholding in Datacraft Asia, we made a few 
small acquisitions during the year. In Africa, we completed an acquisition in Mozambique 
and are currently in the process of completing two further acquisitions whereby we will be 
expanding our capability and presence in Angola and Morocco. 
In November 2008 we made a strategic investment in Blueﬁre, a Sydney based IT services 
company which provides Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) services. In February 2009 we 
purchased Teksys, a UK based Microsoft infrastructure and licencing services business 
which has given us scale and Large Account Reseller status in Europe. 
Outlook
A key factor behind the resilience that Dimension Data has shown in the face of the challenging 
economic environment is the Group’s high performance culture, one in which our people are 
consistently encouraged to maximise opportunity whatever the prevailing market conditions. 
In addition, our chosen positioning in the global Information Technology market and the 
execution of our strategy have been successful.
We believe that Dimension Data is positioned in the sweet spot of IT and communications 
spend, and that the trends that have been driving superior growth in the Group over the 
past few years, have the momentum to continue to drive growth into the medium and longer 
term. Our network centric offerings are vital for our clients to be able to operate effectively in 
today’ s IP and convergence powered environment, where the network is increasingly the core 
platform for all forms of IT and telecommunications. Our strengthening position in areas such 
as uniﬁed communications, collaboration, virtualisation and managed services position us for 
medium term growth. In the longer term, market developments such as cloud computing and 
services based models such as IaaS, provide additional opportunities for growth. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
We believe that 
Dimension Data is 
positioned in the 
sweet spot of IT and 
communications
spend. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     21
The opportunity to deliver on Dimension Data’s proﬁtable growth strategy, which is premised 
on both growth and leverage, lies across all our businesses. The opportunity to drive the 
SI margin higher lies in four factors. The ﬁrst of these is the ongoing effective rollout of our 
services strategy; the second lies in harnessing the beneﬁts of additional scale in a number 
of key markets; the third involves securing additional efﬁciency improvements; and the 
fourth relates to recovery in a few under-performing geographies. The low working capital 
requirements of the SI business make its return on assets the highest of all of the Group’s 
businesses.
We are optimistic that the ongoing deregulation of the telecommunications market in 
South Africa and the growth opportunities on the African continent will provide signiﬁcant 
opportunities for Internet Solutions.
Plessey is well placed to beneﬁt from the opening up of the African continent to growth 
in telecommunication services and we remain conﬁdent that the business has attractive 
medium term growth prospects. Express Data is a premier value added distributor with solid 
prospects.
We are encouraged by the recent stabilisation in our end markets, however much uncertainty 
remains over the resilience of the global recovery. We anticipate that the market segments 
in which Dimension Data operates will perform better in FY2010 and that the Group will be 
able to deliver modest constant currency revenue growth. Dimension Data is well placed 
to capitalise on long term market trends. Growth in excess of prevailing market rates and 
medium term operating leverage remain our key ﬁnancial objectives.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The opportunity to 
deliver on Dimension 
 growth strategy, which 
is premised on both 
growth and leverage, 
lies across all our 
businesses. 22     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 22     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Delivering quality care services
Blue Care, an agency of UnitingCare, employs over 
9,800 staff and consists of more than 260 care centres 
across Queensland and northern New South Wales. 
Blue Care staff and volunteers provide care for more 
than 12,500 people every day through nursing, allied 
health, personal care, domestic assistance, respite, 
social support, pastoral and volunteer services.
In order to execute on its strategic objectives and exploit 
competitive advantages, Blue Care identiﬁed in 2008 
that it would need to invest and develop its capabilities 
over a three year period. Part of this capability is the 
establishment and operation of core systems that 
support the objectives of Blue Care’s business at an 
enterprise level, with common applications rolled out 
organisation-wide.
Dimension Data has deployed a second data centre to 
support the rollout of common applications, as well as 
providing Blue Care with enhanced disaster recovery 
capabilities.
To undergo this transformation Blue Care required a 
different suite of skills and expertise to that which it 
had available in-house. To meet this requirement Blue 
Care signed a ﬁve year managed services contract 
with Dimension Data in November 2008 that combines 
both ongoing support for Blue Care’s existing IT 
infrastructure, as well as the requirement to identify 
opportunities and establish a programme of works 
for IT service level enhancement over the next two to 
three years.
Blue Care’s existing IT skill base will continue to support 
front-line care delivery, IT strategy and new capability 
delivery, while Dimension Data will provide operating 
service support to manage Blue Care’s data centre, 
network, email services and end user devices.
Prior to signing the managed services contract 
Dimension Data was engaged to provide a range 
of products and services aimed at strengthening 
Blue Care’s IT backbone including enterprise system 
management, SQL database consolidation, hierarchical 
storage management and server virtualisation.
More recently, we were able to devise a solution to 
achieve the best possible outcomes as Blue Care 
moved to a new Microsoft Enterprise Agreement for 
software licencing. 
Australia
Dimension Data’s solutions - changing the world as we know it
Systems Integration
› Network Integration
› Converged Communications
› Microsoft Solutions
› Data Centre and Storage Solutions
› Customer Interactive Solutions
› Security Solutions
