 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     9
Dimension Data delivered an excellent performance for ﬁnancial year to September 2009 and 
continued to make good progress in its strategic journey towards becoming a world leader in the 
provision and management of specialist IT infrastructure solutions. The Group’s performance and 
progress are even more commendable given the severe recessionary environment of the past year, 
during which we saw signiﬁcant falls in technology spend by governments and businesses around 
the world. Despite this, the Group has been able to meet its ﬁnancial objectives - measured in 
constant currency terms revenues and proﬁts have increased, the quality of revenue and returns 
have improved, and the balance sheet has continued to strengthen, ending the year with a cash 
balance of $600 million.
A number of key strengths within the Group have enabled us to continue to perform strongly, 
despite the underlying economic environment. Firstly, our geographic diversity and emerging market 
exposure have been important factors in our ability to grow revenues. Our Systems Integration (SI) 
business held up well despite the headwinds faced in the US and Asia, where a sharp slowdown 
in demand from our ﬁnancial services, global and multinational clients took its toll. Slower growth 
in these regions was offset by strong growth in other regions, most notably Africa and Australia. 
In addition, overall Group revenues beneﬁted from the strong performances in Express Data and 
Internet Solutions. 
Integral to the Group’s success over the past year has been the ongoing execution of our services 
strategy. This strategy, which has centred on the Group’s evolution from IT infrastructure supplier 
to strategic IT partner, has enabled us to improve returns through increasing the value add in our 
offerings to clients. We have invested in executing on this strategy for a number of years now and 
in FY2009, it contributed to services revenue growth of 13.0%, which has substantially enhanced 
overall Group returns.
Finally, our ﬁnancial strength has been reassuring to clients and vendors alike in an environment of 
immense economic uncertainty and has been a contributing factor to the market share gains that 
we have enjoyed over the past twelve months.
Jeremy Ord
Chairman
Chairman’s letter 10     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s letter (continued)
To buffer the impact of the market slowdown, the Group adopted a conservative approach to the 
management of costs and acted quickly to cut costs in order to protect proﬁtability in speciﬁc areas. 
Whilst we have been keenly focused on protecting short term performance we have continued to 
invest in areas which are important to the Group’s strategy, longer term positioning and growth 
prospects. Our working capital management has been strong, and when combined with the 
generation of healthy proﬁts, has resulted in excellent cash generation for the year.
Dimension Data started paying dividends for the ﬁrst time in the Group’s history in 2006 and over the 
past three years has balanced the need to invest in the business with our shareholders’ requirement 
for a cash yield on their investment. The strong growth that Dimension Data has delivered over the 
past three years, combined with the ﬁnancial strength of the Group, has enabled us to increase the 
dividend payment by 70% over this period. For the FY2009 ﬁnancial year the Board has proposed 
a dividend of 1.9 cents per share. 
There are four cornerstones to the Group’s strategy: driving proﬁtable growth, offering a world class 
client experience, delivering operational excellence and investing in our people and culture. I like 
to think of these strategies as the pillars that support the success of the Group; it is only through 
delivering on each of them that we will maintain our position at the forefront of our industry and 
continue to deliver superior returns to shareholders. 
Dimension Data’s commitment to our four strategies is resonating with our clients, vendor partners, 
employees and shareholders. We continue to be encouraged by the progress that we are making, 
as measured by client retention and satisfaction rates, our share of their IT spend, our share of 
key vendor partners’ revenues, and the awards and accolades that we have won during the past 
twelve months. As part of the process of continually improving our market position, we monitor 
and benchmark our performance against both the industry and established best practice and work 
closely with our key vendor partners to deepen our understanding of their offerings, to ensure that 
we are able to deliver the solutions needed and demanded by our clients. 
Our employees across the Group are aligned and incentivised to deliver on our strategies and we 
measure their success through Key Performance Indicators. Our people are the life force of our 
business and it is vital to acknowledge and thank the Dimension Data employees for their dedication 
in what has been a tough economic environment. Many of our employees are familiar with the  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     11
machinations of economic downturns, most notably the IT industry downturn of the early 2000s, 
and therefore are well equipped in both experience and attitude to deal with adverse conditions. 
We are fortunate that our immediate industry has matured and lacks the excess capacity that 
made the last downturn so traumatic. Even so, our people’s dedication to operational excellence, 
delivering a superb client experience and protecting and developing the culture of the Group, has 
undoubtedly been a key factor in helping Dimension Data to continue to achieve its ﬁnancial and 
strategic objectives. 
In November 2008, we completed the buy out of the minority shareholders in Datacraft Asia, one of 
the leading IT services and solutions providers in Asia-Paciﬁc. Dimension Data has held a majority 
stake in Datacraft Asia since 1997, during which time there has been an increasing alignment of 
the strategic and operating models of the two companies. As a result, no integration challenges 
or management changes arose following the completion of the transaction. Full ownership of 
Datacraft Asia has increased the Group’s exposure to attractive growth markets. Datacraft Asia’s 
position has been strengthened, providing it with the opportunity to leverage more effectively the 
resources of the wider Group and capitalise on opportunities in the market, with the result that 
returns in the year under review improved despite the tough trading environment.
In the year under review, the Board has remained unchanged and all committees have been 
reviewed and strengthened. Dorian Wharton-Hood, who has been a director of Dimension Data 
for nine years, will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting in February 2010. I would like to thank 
him for his dedicated service and invaluable advice over his time with the Group and wish him a 
very happy retirement. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our clients for their enduring loyalty to Dimension 
Data, our partners for continuing to collaborate and innovate with us and our employees for their 
unwavering commitment to excellence. 
Jeremy Ord
Chairman
