 04 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
The Group’s strategy is to invest in Specialised
Distribution businesses with long term growth
potential and with the opportunity for sustainable
superior margins through the quality of customer
service, depth of technical support and other 
value-adding activities. The objective is to build
more substantial, broader based businesses which
meet these criteria in the three sectors of Life
Sciences, Seals & Components and Interconnect.
With difficult economic and market conditions facing
all of our businesses, the priority this year has been
to continue the strategic development of the Group
while at the same time pursuing operating 
efficiencies to maintain profitability. This has been
achieved with further progression against each of
the principal Group strategies. Sales from the 
continuing businesses increased by 11% to £73.7m
(2001 : £66.3m) and operating profits were 
maintained at £8.9m (2001 : £8.8m). There have
been contributions to both sales and operating profits
from newly acquired businesses, but off-setting 
these have been similar levels of investment costs 
in start-up operations. The underlying performance 
of the businesses demonstrates their inherent
resilience.
FOCUS ON GROWTH MARKET SEGMENTS
While the Life Sciences sector continues to have
excellent long term growth prospects, this past year
has been challenging for all industry participants.
The major wave of research work related to the
Human Genome project has passed through and the
follow-on application research work in both
genomics and proteomics has yet to take up the
strain. The major pharmaceutical companies, with
less confidence in the flow through their drug
pipelines, are also carefully scrutinising all purchases
of higher value instruments. Our response has 
been to reduce resources applied to the weaker
Instrumentation segments while increasing 
investment in the Consumables and Service 
segments which have remained resilient.
The attraction of the Seals & Components sector is
the recurring revenue stream due to the relatively
short lifetime and regular replacement cycle of the
product. As growth slowed in all end-use sectors,
mobile equipment operators quickly cut back on new
purchases from equipment OEM’s. Initially, this also
impacted the aftermarket with reductions in the
inventories of replacement parts and delays in repair
work. After a pause however, the demand for repair
and maintenance parts has improved ahead of any
recovery in OEM equipment purchases.
The Interconnect sector has been impacted by weak
markets in commercial aerospace and in Germany in
general. To offset these negative trends, growth has
been generated by focusing on more buoyant 
segments such as Defence, Marine, Space and
Medical. Market share gains have also been achieved
in the Motorsport market, fuelled by the acquisition
of Clarendon in the UK and the IS Motorsport 
start-up in the US.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS
A high priority for all our businesses is to build on
strong customer relationships within our selected
product/market segments. Selling a broader range of
products into key customer accounts strengthens the
ties with customers, as well as creating barriers to
entry against competitors.
The acquisition of Clarendon has added a range of
high performance fasteners to our Interconnect
product portfolio. This has strengthened 
relationships with key customers in the Motorsport
sector as well as generating many cross-selling
opportunities with IS Rayfast.
In a similar way, with the acquisition of Bulldog in
the US, we are now able to supply a broader range 
of sealing products (now including specialist gasket
kits) to our customers in North America and 
internationally.
c86076 1.Front  27/11/02  3:44 pm  Page 6 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 05
ADDED VALUE SERVICES
We are constantly seeking to identify opportunities
for new service offerings to complement our product
sales. Again this strengthens customer relationships
and gives justification for superior margins.
The Service offerings in our Life Sciences businesses
have been particularly important in offsetting the
effect of slower instrument sales. As part of their
overall spending reviews, several industrial 
customers have begun to consolidate the 
maintenance and repair of their instruments by 
seeking to appoint a single contractor or supplier to
co-ordinate the servicing of all the equipment on
site. Anachem has been at the forefront of this 
initiative and during the year successfully arranged
one of the earliest of these contracts with Pfizer.
Strong growth has also been achieved in our pipette
servicing business.
GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION
Where we have achieved success in specific 
product/market segments, we seek to extend this
into other geographies.
The acquisition of Bulldog, in addition to broadening
the product range and customer base, has most
importantly increased the international spread of our
Seals & Components business. In this sector 35% of
our sales are now outside the US.
The expansion of Anachem’s environmental business
into Germany and IS Motorsport into the US 
demonstrate the alternative investment approach of
using start-up operations to expand geographically.
EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
We continue to invest in infrastructure and systems
to give operational efficiencies and to provide a
solid foundation for growth. This is an important 
element of value added by the Group when 
transforming small, owner managed companies into
more substantial, broader based businesses.
Following a programme of investment over the last
2-3 years, our principal businesses are all operating
from purpose built or newly expanded facilities
designed for efficient operations and with a scale 
to support significant future growth.
Investment is also ongoing in the areas of IT and 
e-commerce to ensure high levels of customer service
as well as operational efficiency. As part of this 
continuing investment, a new integrated IT system
which will service all the Seals & Components 
businesses, has been selected and will be installed
during the year.
STRONG FOCUSED MANAGEMENT
Our culture has always been to ensure that strong,
self standing management teams are in place in the
operating businesses. Management progression has
been effected to ensure appropriate and strong 
management teams are in place, motivated and
rewarded according to success in their businesses. 
With this management model, it is important not 
to overburden the businesses with centralised 
management and head office costs and this year
these costs have reduced by over 16%. The Group
head office is small and has very specific roles with
the businesses in helping formulate and monitor
their strategies, in developing management and in
exerting financial control.
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
18 November 2002
The Group maintains its focus on Specialised Distribution
businesses with the potential for growth and superior 
margins.
c86076 1.Front  27/11/02  3:44 pm  Page 7
