 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 03
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Since the year end, we have completed the sale of a
first parcel of our property in Stamford for £2.6m in
cash, before expenses. I am particularly pleased by
this achievement as it is the first step in realising
the rewards of effort over many years. We will 
continue to pursue the sale of further parcels of
land, including the former brickworks site which is
now vacant following the closure of Williamson Cliff
during the year.
In view of the continuing strong cash generation,
robust balance sheet and encouraging results
achieved in difficult market conditions, the Directors
are recommending an increased final dividend of 
9.0 pence (8.0 pence), raising the total dividend 
payment for the year to 14.0 pence (13.0 pence), 
an increase of 7.7%.
EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS
In July this year, we welcomed John Rennocks to 
the Board as an independent Non-executive 
Director of the Company. John brings to Diploma his 
considerable experience as a finance director of a
number of companies and also in a range of 
non-executive roles and I look forward to his 
contribution. I should also like to thank our 
employees, who make an essential contribution to
the successful development of our businesses.
CURRENT TRADING
Although operating profit from continuing 
businesses was broadly flat year on year, the second
half showed a good improvement over both the 
first half of the year and the second half of the prior 
year. The Group’s businesses have started the new
financial year in line with budget expectations and
the actions we have taken in 2002 to reduce costs in
both our US and European operations should provide
a firm foundation for progress in 2003.
Christopher Thomas
Chairman
18 November 2002
We have experienced difficult economic and trading
conditions this year in most sectors in which we
operate. However against this background, the 
businesses have demonstrated their inherent
resilience and have achieved a creditable result.
Actions taken during the year to consolidate our
businesses to achieve a lower cost base, give me 
confidence that we are well positioned to take
advantage of any economic or market recovery. 
The Board remains committed to maximising value 
to shareholders through the expansion of the Group
both by investment in the existing businesses and by 
acquisition.
The current economic environment is creating a 
number of interesting corporate opportunities and
Diploma’s strong balance sheet should allow the
Group to capitalise on this. However, the Board 
continues to review the Group’s capital 
requirements and this may result in future returns 
of surplus capital through share buy-backs.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
Profit before tax increased by 16.1% to £10.1m 
from £8.7m benefiting from exceptional profits of
£1.1m made on the sale of surplus properties. 
After excluding exceptional items and goodwill 
amortisation, operating profits of the continuing
businesses were £8.9m compared with £8.8m last
year. Sales of the continuing businesses, with 
contributions from the Bulldog and Clarendon 
acquisitions, increased by 11.2% to £73.7m.
Basic earnings per share were 31.2 pence compared
with 21.5 pence last year. Adjusted earnings per
share, which are after excluding exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation, were 29.4 pence 
compared with 30.2 pence last year.
Cash flow, historically a strength of the Diploma
Group, has again been positive. Operating cash 
flow of £9.9m was supplemented by cash proceeds 
of £3.0m from the sale of surplus properties. 
After acquisitions and returning £8.5m cash to
shareholders through an on market share purchase
undertaken in December 2001, the Group’s net cash
funds decreased by £4.8m to £26.9m at the end of
the year.
The businesses have achieved a creditable result in difficult
market conditions, demonstrating their inherent resilience.
Cash flow again has been strong.
c86076 1.Front  27/11/02  3:44 pm  Page 5
