 We have made further progress towards 
our strategic objective of building more 
substantial, broader based businesses
in our chosen sectors.
The Group’s strategy is to invest in Specialised Distribution
businesses with long term growth potential in the UK,
Continental Europe and North America.
The businesses have a consistent record of sustaining
superior margins over the business cycle, under-pinned by
the quality of customer service, the depth of technical
support and value adding activities. It is these characteristics
that have enabled the operating businesses to demonstrate
such resilience in their performance in continuing difficult
market conditions. 
RESULTS
Sales from the continuing businesses increased by 5% to
£77.1m (2002: £73.7m) and operating profits, before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, increased by
9% to £9.7m (2002: £8.9m). 
Profit before tax increased by 26% to £12.7m from £10.1m,
benefiting from exceptional profits of £3.1m made on the
sale of land and properties. After excluding exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation, profits of the continuing
businesses increased by 7% to £10.6m compared with £9.9m
last year. 
The results benefited from the newly acquired Hawco
business which contributed sales and operating profits of
£3.6m and £0.3m respectively in the two months since
acquisition. Without this contribution, however, the
operating businesses still managed to maintain sales and
move operating profits, before exceptional items, forward 
by 5% – a creditable performance in testing times.
The Group again generated strong cash flow. Operating cash
flow of £11.1m was supplemented by cash proceeds of £4.2m
from the sale of surplus properties. After spending £6.1m on
acquisitions, the Group’s net cash funds increased by £2.4m
to £29.3m at the end of the year.
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS
We have continued to make progress towards our strategic
objective of building more substantial, broader based
businesses in our chosen sectors.
In Life Sciences, the market for higher value Instrumentation
has continued to be weak with pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies hesitant to commit resources. 
However, the Consumables business has given a solid core 
to the business and advances have been made in developing
further the Service and Environmental businesses. In terms
of Service, Anachem has marketed a number of new concepts,
such as LeaseSure and Premium Care Contracts and has
broadened the range of instruments serviced. The
Environmental business has now grown to 20% of sector
sales and has strong operations in both the UK and Germany.
While this year has very much been one of consolidation 
in Seals & Components, this sector perhaps best
demonstrates our growth model combining organic growth
and acquisitions. When Hercules was acquired in 1996, its
sales were ca. £10m and operating profit ca. £1m. The sales
of the Seals & Components sector are now approaching £30m
and profits have more than tripled. The sector has also
expanded in terms of geographic spread. While Hercules’
sales at the time of acquisition were predominately in the US,
35% of sector sales are now outside the US.
The acquisitions of FPE in 1999 and Pevco (Bulldog) in 2001
have accounted for about half of the sector growth, but the
balance has come from organic growth. Investment in
engineering development has increased the number of
product line items by 40,000 since 1996, increasing the total
under management to over 90,000. A new main warehouse
and office facility was built in March 1999 in Clearwater to
increase efficiency and responsiveness. We have also invested
this year in an advanced computer system which is
operational in all five of the North American locations. This
will give a firm foundation to expand the sector further in
terms of products, customer base and geography.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
4 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 In Controls & Interconnect, we made further advances in 
our strategy of building a more substantial, broader based
business. Dowatronic, acquired in April 2002, has been
successfully integrated with Sommer in Germany and has
given a focus for growth in the Munich area and in the space
and defence sectors.
Our business in Germany has been further expanded by 
the acquisition, announced after the year end, of Filcon. 
This new acquisition, again based near Munich, is a supplier
of specialist connectors principally to the defence and
aerospace sectors in Germany.
Hawco was acquired in July 2003 for a maximum net cash
cost of £6.3m. Hawco is a distributor of instrumentation and
devices used in the measurement and control of temperature
and pressure. This acquisition has further extended our
sector coverage in terms of products supplied and customer
groups served. Hawco was a private, family owned company
with genuine reasons for sale. Under new leadership and with
our input of resources and experience, we believe that this
new addition can accelerate the profitable growth of the
sector.
MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
The strategy for the Group is clear and consistent, but to
execute it successfully we must continuously develop the
human and physical resources.
The Group has always held to the belief of having a small
head office focused on strategy and financial control. This
function is carried out by a team of eight, including the three
Executive Directors – Iain Henderson, Nigel Lingwood and
myself. This can only work if there are strong, self standing
management teams in place in the operating businesses,
motivated and rewarded according to their success. 
The management teams now in place have been further
strengthened by the challenges of the year and show a 
good blend of youthful energy and ambition, but also of
experience. To demonstrate this, the Managing Directors of
the businesses have an average age of 43, have been in their
current positions for three years on average, and have an
average length of service within their companies of 14 years.
In terms of infrastructure, we have progressively invested in
the physical facilities and have sufficient capacity to support
substantial further growth. With the investment in the 
new computer system in Seals & Components we now have
common systems with strong capabilities in each of the three
sectors, giving a firm foundation on which to build more
substantial businesses.
ACQUISITIONS
Acquisitions remain an important element of our strategy
moving forward and it is an area where we have considerable
experience. Over the last 10 years, we have completed a 
total of 17 acquisitions and have generated a 20% pre-tax
return on the total investment in these acquisitions. 
In evaluating our performance against this measure we
include all investment including goodwill, investment post
acquisition and any net profits or losses if businesses are
subsequently divested.
In this last year we have completed the acquisition of 
Hawco and subsequent to the year end we announced the
acquisition of Filcon. We have also expended significant
resource on evaluating other acquisitions which ultimately
did not meet our demanding criteria. Though the merger
and acquisition market is again becoming competitive, 
we hope to be successful in completing further acquisitions
in the coming year.
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2003
5 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
