 The Group has again demonstrated the resilience of its
operating businesses despite the difficult market and economic
conditions prevailing in most sectors and geographies in which
we operate. Against this background, the Group achieved a
commendable result. Solid progress was also achieved in
delivering the strategy of building more substantial, broader
based businesses through a combination of acquisitions and
investment in organic growth.
EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS
Earnings per share, after excluding exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation, increased by 10% to 32.2 pence
compared with 29.4 pence last year. Basic earnings per 
share were 42.8 pence compared with 31.2 pence last year.
The Directors are recommending an increased final 
dividend of 10.0 pence per share (2002: 9.0 pence), which
raises the total dividend payment for the year to 15.0 pence
per share (2002: 14.0 pence), an increase of 7%.
PEOPLE
It was with great sadness that we learnt in April of the
sudden death of our colleague, Bill Reid. Bill had been a
Non-executive Director of the Company for nine years and
contributed significantly to the substantial restructuring of
the Group which has been achieved in recent years.
In July we welcomed John Matthews to the Board as a 
Non-executive Director. We look forward to the contribution
he will make to the future development of the Group, given
his many years of experience as a Director of a number of
public and private companies.
After over thirty years as Chairman and Chief Executive of 
the Company, and in recent years as Non-executive Chairman, 
I have decided to retire from the Board at the conclusion 
of the AGM on 7 January 2004. 
I have derived immense satisfaction from leading the
Company through its various phases of development and 
I am pleased to see it today in robust financial health 
and poised for its next period of growth. I am confident 
that the Group will continue to flourish under the new 
team guided by my successor, John Rennocks.
As I reflect, in 1969 the Company had both a net worth 
and market capitalisation of £370,000. Financed almost
exclusively from our own cash flow, we have grown net 
worth to ca. £60m (including £30m of cash) and market
capitalisation to ca. £100m. This has been achieved after
returning more than £70m to shareholders in recent years, 
in addition to our regular and growing dividends. Over the
years, our guiding objective has been to focus on positive
cashflow and this remains a fundamental principle for the
Board, as is demonstrated by the accounts.
Finally, I should also like to express my thanks to all my
colleagues, both past and present, who have made my time
with the Company so rewarding and also to our employees
who continue to make a vital contribution to the
development of the Group.
CURRENT TRADING
The current trading conditions remain difficult and signs 
of economic recovery in each of the sectors in which we
operate are patchy. However, the businesses have begun 
the new financial year trading in line with expectations 
and their inherent resilience to changing trading conditions,
together with the recent acquisitions, should allow the 
Group to make further progress in 2004.
Christopher Thomas
Chairman
17 November 2003
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
3 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Our guiding objective has been to focus 
on positive cash flow and this remains a 
fundamental principle
