 The Group’s strategy is to invest in
specialised distribution businesses with 
long term growth potential in the UK,
Continental Europe and North America.
Superior margins are achieved in the
businesses through the quality of customer
service, depth of technical support and value
adding activities. The objective is to build
more substantial broader based businesses
in our chosen sectors through a combination
of organic growth and acquisitions.
Reviewing the last five years of the Group’s
development, adjusted earnings per share
(before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation) has grown from 23.4p 
per share to the current level of 52.4p per
share; an average growth rate of 18% p.a.
Underpinning this strong performance has
been the growth of the core continuing
businesses which have grown both sales 
and operating profits (before head office
expenses) by 15% p.a. over the same period. 
Acquisitions have contributed strongly
to this growth and include Bulldog (Pevco),
Clarendon, Dowatronic, Hawco, Filcon and
most recently Somagen. However, over the
same five year period, removing these
acquired earnings, organic growth in sales
and operating profits has been 5% p.a. and
7.5% p.a. respectively.
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT – LIFE SCIENCES
The longest standing business in the Life
Sciences sector has been Anachem, whose
core UK business focuses on pipetting
products, instruments and related services
supplied to public and private sector research
laboratories. Through the 1990s Anachem
benefited from the high levels of research
and development investment by the major
pharmaceutical companies and grew sales by
10-15% p.a. The initial wave of biotechnology
investment then gave a further short term
boost to sales in 2000 and 2001.
Since then, the core Anachem business 
has come under increasing pressure on
both revenues and margins. Although
public research funding has grown steadily,
major pharmaceutical companies have
progressively rationalised their research
operations and cut back on both capital
and operating expenditure. To date there
has been no second wave of investment
by biotechnology companies.
Two strategic initiatives have been
implemented in the sector to diversify
the business and re-introduce growth. 
Firstly, Anachem has extended into 
the environmental business, serving
environmental testing laboratories and
health and safety professionals in a range 
of industries across Europe. The newly
branded a1 envirosciences group now
accounts for 16% of sector sales and 
has more than 40% of its business 
outside the UK.
The acquisition of Somagen Diagnostics
in Canada further extended the sector
activities into hospital pathology
laboratories which are benefiting from
increasing public healthcare expenditure.
Somagen gave an immediate boost to
results but has also grown organically since
acquisition. In 2005 sales growth exceeded
25% and operating margins, already strong,
have improved further. 
With these initiatives, the sector has returned
to growth and is more strongly positioned
strategically, with more of a focus on growing
segments and a broader base in terms of
customers and geographies served.
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT – SEALS
The Seals sector has seen sales growth 
at an average 10% p.a. over the last five
years. This has been achieved over a period
when the main mobile machinery markets 
in North America moved into recession, 
only emerging in early 2004. Taking out the
additional sales acquired with Bulldog in
2001, organic growth has been 5% p.a. over
the same five year period. More importantly,
organic growth in sector operating profits
has been at an average of 15% p.a.
Strategically, the sector activities have been
broadened and strengthened. Investment in
product development has increased the seal
and seal kit range to ca. 75,000 product
lines from a figure of only 30,000 when
Hercules was originally acquired. 
Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 4
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Our strategic objective is to build more substantial, broader based businesses
in our chosen sectors by a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. Bulldog has further extended the product
portfolio of the combined group to include
gaskets for heavy duty specialised diesel
engines and transmissions. Additionally, 
a range of hard parts has been introduced 
in FPE and a new range of lightweight
cylinders has been sourced from China. 
The international elements of Bulldog’s
business, together with the acquisition 
of FPE in the UK and the organic growth 
of Hercules Bulldog Canada, have combined
to extend the business geographically; 
as a result 39% of the sector sales are now
outside the US compared with 26% in 2000.
The infrastructure has also been substantially
upgraded to give a strong platform for
future growth. A total of US$4.2m has 
been invested in property and warehouse
equipment to ensure that Hercules Bulldog 
is operating from modern, efficient
distribution facilities with capacity for
expansion. Bulldog’s gasket production
facility in Reno has benefited from further
investment of US$0.8m in new and more
efficient equipment. Most importantly, the
major investment of US$2.1m in information
technology in 2004 is now bringing benefits
in terms of process efficiency and again 
is adaptable and expandable as the group
grows. Hercules Bulldog is now well
positioned to take advantage of positive
market conditions and to integrate new,
complementary acquisitions.
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT – CONTROLS
The Controls sector has shown the most
dramatic growth over the last five years.
Total growth in sales and operating profits
has been 28% p.a. and 24% p.a. respectively.  
The majority of this growth has come from
acquisitions including Clarendon, Filcon and
Hawco. However, organic growth in sales 
and operating profits has still been 9% p.a.
and 13% p.a. respectively. 
This organic growth has been achieved 
over a period when economic and market
conditions in Germany and more recently
the UK have been very sluggish. It has 
also been a time of dramatic change in 
the key markets of Aerospace, Defence 
and Motorsport. 
The core companies in this sector have been
IS-Rayfast and Sommer. These businesses
have been broadened and strengthened by
the complementary acquisitions of Clarendon
and Filcon. Clarendon has reinforced 
IS-Rayfast’s position in the UK Motorsport
market and added a range of aerospace
quality fasteners. The addition of Filcon has
given Sommer a range of connectors and 
a more substantial presence in the Military
and Aerospace markets in Germany. 
The IS Group in the UK and Sommer
& Filcon in Germany are now strong, 
well managed businesses which have
successfully integrated the acquisitions 
and have good opportunities for further
expansion.
Hawco is the third of the Controls businesses
and has extended the sector into a new
range of customers and applications. 
Hawco supplies a range of instrumentation
and control devices used in the sensing,
measurement and control of temperature 
and pressure.
Since acquisition, Hawco has quickly moved
to restructure the business, improve
operating margins and strengthen the senior
management team. Having established and
consolidated these changes, Hawco is now
ready to take the next step forward.
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
Our management philosophy is to build
strong self standing management teams
in the operating companies, committed to
and rewarded according to the short and
long term success of their businesses and
with the potential to manage aggressive
growth strategies.
During the year we have further strengthened
our management resources by broadening
the roles and responsibilities for talented
young managers already within the
businesses and through selective external
recruitment. 
The group of 30 managers, who together
make up the senior management cadre
in the operating businesses, demonstrate 
a good blend of energy, ambition and
experience. The average age of these
managers is 43 and they have an average
length of service within their companies 
of 9 years.
Further development and strengthening of
management in the operating businesses 
will remain a priority for us and is key to the
successful implementation of our strategies.
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
14 November 2005
Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 5
ADJUSTED
EARNINGS
PER SHARE
ADJUSTED
EARNINGS
PER SHARE
TOTAL GROWTH ORGANIC GROWTH
OPERATING
PROFITS*
28%
13%
27%
18%
TOTAL GROWTH ORGANIC GROWTH
15%
7.5%
OPERATING
PROFITS*
1 YEAR GROWTH
* For continuing businesses, on a constant currency basis, before head office expenses
5 YEARS GROWTH (p.a.)
