 Strategy and performance
The Group comprises a number of high quality,
specialised businesses supplying technical products 
and services to the Life Sciences, Seals and Controls
industries. The businesses aim to achieve stable 
revenue growth and attractive margins by focusing 
on supplying essential products and services to
customers who value high levels of customer service,
technical support and value adding activities. The
businesses target organic revenue growth over the
economic cycle at a rate of “GDP plus” growth 
(5-6% p.a.), with higher growth rates achieved through
carefully selected, value enhancing acquisitions.
This strategic model has been closely tested through 
the dramatic downturn in the global economy in 2009
and the subsequent recovery in the markets. During 
the recession, the businesses showed their resilience
with revenues less impacted than competitors who
were more dependent on capital equipment budgets 
or could offer less differentiated products and services.
With the recovery taking hold in 2010, revenues have
rebounded strongly, supporting our belief that the
businesses have succeeded in further penetrating their
markets by maintaining service levels through the
downturn. Revenues increased by 15% in 2010 to
£183.5m (2009: £160.0m) with underlying growth of
11% after adjusting for currency translation effects,
acquisitions and certain one-off items. 
Operating margins have also performed well under
extreme market pressure, providing further evidence 
of the continuing value provided to customers and the
success in achieving operational efficiency. During the
recession, the businesses acted quickly and decisively 
to optimise performance and reduce costs to match 
the reduced revenue levels. As a result, operating
margins were held at 16.0% of revenue. As revenues
have rebounded, the businesses have been very
controlled in adding back costs, given the uncertainty 
in the sustainability of the recovery. With the resulting
benefits of operational leverage, operating margins 
have increased to 17.5% of revenue and adjusted
operating profits have increased by 25% to £32.1m
(2009: £25.6m); this increase is 19% after adjusting 
for currency translation effects, acquisitions and certain 
one-off items. 
Performance against other key indicators has also 
been strong through the recession and into the
subsequent recovery. In 2009, the businesses reduced
working capital by £6.1m to match the reduced
revenues and as revenues have recovered in 2010, the
businesses have again been cautious about adding back
inventory too quickly. Working capital as a percentage of
revenue has decreased to 15.4% (2009: 17.6%), though
it is likely to trend back to the target range of 16-17% if
revenues continue to increase. Free cash flow, including
proceeds from the disposal of the Anachem businesses,
has been very strong at £29.8m (2009: £23.5m). 
Finally, return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”)
has increased to 22.1% (2009: 19.0%) with the
improved operating margins and working capital ratios.
6 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Stable revenue growth,
sustainable margins and an
active acquisition programme
Chief Executive’s Review Section 1: Overview
7 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sector developments
The Group’s strategic objective is to build more
substantial, broader based businesses in each of its
chosen sectors through a combination of organic growth
and acquisition. Good progress was made in the year in
executing this strategy in each of the three sectors. The
key developments in the year are summarised below
with a more detailed analysis of market drivers and
business performance included in the Business Review.
Life Sciences
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 55.4 49.9 +11%
Adjusted operating profit 11.9 10.6 +12%
Adjusted operating margin 21.5% 21.2%
The DCHI group of Healthcare businesses in Canada
now account for over 70% of the Life Sciences sector
revenues. They operate in a market which is mostly
public sector funded and where the demand from a
growing, aging and well-educated population drives a
steady growth in funding. Within this market, DCHI
supplies specialised products which are used 
in the pathology laboratories, operating rooms and
endoscopy suites of the hospitals across Canada. The
worldwide recession had some impact on the market
with limits imposed on the number and cost of specific
medical procedures and diagnostic tests and extended
tender processes for capital equipment. However, 
overall Healthcare expenditure in Canada has continued
to grow steadily in real terms and recently there has
been some evidence of an easing of capital approvals.
The business model is built on the supply, on an
exclusive basis, of high quality, manufacturer branded
products secured by long term distribution agreements.
Strong customer relationships are forged through 
high levels of customer service, including experienced
technical consultants advising on product applications
and new product ideas and service engineers who
ensure the instrumentation products are operating to 
the detailed specifications. A large proportion (over
60%) of DCHI’s revenues are secured under multi-year
customer contracts.
During the year, DCHI consolidated its position in 
the Canadian market, delivering solid growth in the 
core product lines through increased utilisation of 
the products in existing accounts and good success 
in penetrating new accounts. Good progress was also
achieved in expanding newer product areas including
allergy testing, assisted reproductive technology (“ART”)
and a new instrument to treat Barrett’s oesophagus, 
an early stage of oesophageal cancer.
In July 2010, the acquisition was completed of 80% of
BGS in Australia. The Healthcare market in Australia
shares many of the same attractive characteristics as
that of Canada, with steadily growing Healthcare funding
and structural market challenges which make the
specialised distribution model attractive to
manufacturers. We believe there is a good opportunity
to grow the business by investing in direct sales
resource and leveraging from the experience of DCHI’s
electrosurgery business in Canada.
Bruce Thompson, Chief Executive Officer
”The businesses target “GDP plus” 
organic growth in revenues over 
the economic cycle, with growth
accelerated through carefully selected,
value-enhancing acquisitions.” 8 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The balance (25-30%) of the sector revenues are
generated by the a1-group of Environmental
businesses in Europe, which supply a range of products
used in Environmental Testing and Health & Safety
applications. The market demand is largely driven 
by regulation which ensures steady demand for the
essential consumable products. However, in times of
economic downturn, as experienced through the 2009
recession, customers have deferred capital expenditure
on new equipment and instrumentation. Markets have
shown some sign of recovery in 2010 and a1-group
revenues have increased, boosted in particular by new
sales of containment enclosures to protect technicians 
in pharmaceutical research laboratories as well as
increased investment in emissions monitoring in 
power stations and gas detection. Actions taken during
the year to consolidate operations will also establish a
stronger base for profitable growth. 
Seals
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 60.1 48.2 +25%
Adjusted operating profit 8.9 5.5 +62%
Adjusted operating margin 14.8% 11.4%
Currently around 70% of Seals sector revenues are
generated from the Aftermarket businesses of HFPG
(Hercules, Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. Own brand
sealing products are supplied to a broad range of 
mobile machinery applications in heavy construction,
logging, mining, agriculture, material handling and 
refuse collection. The principal market drivers are
therefore the growth in the general industrial economy
and in particular heavy construction.  
With the broad industrial economy in North America
moving into recession in 2009, construction spending,
housing starts and mobile hydraulic shipments all
experienced substantial falls. The Aftermarket
businesses were impacted, but to a lesser extent 
than businesses more dependent upon sales of capital
equipment. A recovery in the general economy has
resulted in Aftermarket revenues increasing by ca. 15%,
but activity levels are still below 2008 peak levels and
the construction market has remained somewhat 
muted despite the various stimulus packages. 
In the core Hercules business, the key to success is 
the ability to provide a next day delivery service from
inventory, for seals and seal kits used in a broad range 
of different manufacturers’ machinery and different
applications. Hercules has therefore continued to 
invest in warehouse automation at the main facility in
Clearwater, Florida. This will improve further Hercules’
service proposition and bring greater efficiency to
warehouse operations. The benefits of operational
leverage can be seen in the improved operating margin
this year as revenues have recovered, but operating
costs have not been added back at a similar level.
Outside North America, the main focus for development
has been in Europe where good progress was made 
in both direct sales in the Benelux countries as well 
as the appointment of sub-distributors to distribute
Hercules seal kits in other mainland European countries.
Initiatives are also being developed to increase
penetration in other developing markets in Asia Pacific
and South America.
The major rebound in Seals sector revenues has come
from the Industrial OEM businesses, RT Dygert and 
M Seals. On a like-for-like basis, these businesses 
have increased revenues by 30% in 2010 and are now
experiencing demand levels approaching pre-recession
levels. Order levels from core customers in North
America began to recover at the end of calendar 
year 2009, as the OEM’s regained confidence and
moved back to full time working and carried out some
re-stocking. Confidence was slower to return to
M Seals’ customers in Europe, with a return to growth
only in the second half of the year. M Seals has
continued to 
be a key supplier of large bearing seals to the wind
turbine manufacturers and has now established a small
specialist team in China to service this rapidly expanding
wind turbine market. 
In September 2010, the Industrial OEM business 
was further expanded through the acquisition of All
Seals, a long established supplier of O-rings and custom
manufactured parts to Industrial OEM customers 
across a range of specialist applications. All Seals has 
a strong position in the important Californian market 
and the adjacent South Western States and is therefore
complementary to RT Dygert. The company has
enjoyed strong growth in 2010 and plans are being
developed to expand its product range and to penetrate
new accounts.  
Chief Executive’s Review continued Section 1: Overview
9 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Controls
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 68.0 61.9 +10%
Adjusted operating profit 11.3 9.5 +19%
Adjusted operating margin 16.6% 15.3%
The Controls sector businesses supply high performance
wiring, connectors, fasteners and control devices 
used in a range technically demanding applications. 
The businesses offer high quality, manufacturer 
branded products sourced under the terms of long 
term exclusive distribution agreements. Strong customer
relationships are based on ex-stock availability of
product, responsiveness, technical advice on product
applications and a range of value added services.    
The largest end user sector is Defence & Aerospace.
The businesses do not typically supply to major platform
OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, who are mostly served direct
by the manufacturers. Rather, the businesses supply
into repair, refurbishment and upgrade programmes,
where ex-stock availability and responsiveness are
critical. Operational funding has remained buoyant during
the year, particularly in the ground vehicle and military
marine segments, but sales into Military Aerospace have
been softer, possibly reflecting the priority given to
ground vehicles.   Although the businesses are not too
directly impacted in the short term by cutbacks and
delays in major defence projects, it is clear that the
defence spending reviews will have an impact longer
term at the sub-contractor and component supply level.
In Commercial Aerospace, the businesses supply
products principally for the initial installation and
subsequent upgrades of aircraft interiors. After falling
back in 2009, demand has again picked up as passenger
numbers have increased.
In Motorsport, activity has suffered in recent years 
from cost cutting measures and team withdrawals in 
the Formula 1 series. However, this series has returned
to relative stability with a highly competitive grid and
new team entrants. Medical Equipment is another
specialised market where the businesses continue 
to have success and maintain a more stable demand
profile than the background economies. 
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised
applications in the General Industrial sector in the
major markets of the UK and Germany. Demand has
recovered well and in particular, there has been strong
growth in the Commercial Refrigeration market, with 
the major retailers investing in new and refurbished
stores. In the broader Energy sector, there has been 
an increased demand for energy efficient components 
as customers implement energy reduction programmes
and move to alternative coolant gases using natural
refrigerants. In August 2010, the German Controls
business acquired the customer list and trading stock 
of a distributor of Tyco Energy products. The sales and
logistics activities have now been integrated and this
small acquisition will boost our presence in this growing
business area.
Summary and outlook
The steady performance of the businesses through 
the dramatic economic downturn and subsequent 
period of uncertain recovery, have given added
confidence in the resilience of the business model. 
Over the business cycle, we are looking for continued
organic revenue growth at the “GDP plus” level,
combined with sustained attractive operating margins. 
The strategy remains to accelerate growth through
carefully selected, value enhancing acquisitions. 
Over the last five years, we have invested ca. £70m 
in acquisitions which are delivering a pre-tax return 
of over 20%. Current cash balances of ca. £30m,
combined with the renewed debt facility and strong
continuing cash flow give the resources to continue 
to pursue this active acquisition strategy.
The environment for acquisitions has certainly improved 
and valuation gaps between Buyer and Seller are 
now closer. However, the general uncertainty in 
the economic environment means that transactions 
are taking longer to complete as Buyers and Sellers 
try to identify, quantify and limit any risk elements. 
Though more time consuming to bring to closure, 
three acquisitions were completed in the second 
half of the year and further opportunities are currently 
being pursued.
Bruce Thompson 
Chief Executive Officer
22 November 2010
