 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
04
Chief Executive’s Review
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Principal corporate objectives
Achieve double digit growth in adjusted EPS over the 
business cycle
Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), measured over the 
business cycle, provides an absolute benchmark of the 
Company’s performance. Over the last five years, 
adjusted EPS has grown at a compound growth rate of 
19% p.a. through a combination of steady organic 
growth and carefully targeted acquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper quartile of the  
FTSE 250 
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) is the growth in value of 
a share plus the value of dividends re-invested in the 
Company’s shares on the day on which they are paid. 
Our business model
Essential SOlu TiOnS
We provide solutions to 
meet customer needs, 
combining:
•	 Highly responsive 
customer service
•	 Deep technical 
knowledge and support
•	 Value adding activities
Essential vAlu ES
We encourage an 
entrepreneurial culture in 
our businesses:
•	 Decentralised 
management model
•	 Ensures businesses are 
agile and responsive to 
change
Essential PRODuCTS
We focus on businesses 
which supply essential 
products and services:
•	 Funded by customers’ 
operating rather than 
capital budgets
•	 Providing recurring 
income and stable 
revenue growth
This is measured against the TSR growth of the FTSE 
mid-250 index (excluding investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”). 
The last five years have seen a compound TSR growth 
for Diploma of 21% p.a., which represents upper quartile 
performance as compared with the FTSE 250, where 
median TSR growth has been 3% p.a. 
Deliver progressive dividend growth with two times 
dividend cover
Diploma follows a progressive dividend policy with a 
target cover of two times on an adjusted EPS basis. Over 
the last five years, dividends have steadily grown at the 
rate of 21% p.a. and this continues the trend of increasing 
dividends in each of the last 12 years.  05
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Total revenue £m
230.6
183.5
160.0
156.2
124.5
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Underlying organic revenue growth % p.a.
+17%
+11%
-12%
+8%
+6%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Operating margin as % of revenue
19.6%
17.5%
16.0%
17.0%
16.6%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Acquisition spend £m
£28.2m
£11.0m
£12.2m
£7.9m
£31.6m
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Free cash ﬂow £m
£25.0m
£29.8m
£23.5m
£17.7m
£12.0m
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
ROTCE %
25.4%
22.1%
19.0%
22.4%
25.5%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Working capital as % of revenue
16.1%
15.4%
17.6%
17.2%
17.3%
Next level objectives Key performance indicators 
Total revenue growth: % p.a.
Operating margins: % of revenue
Acquisition spend and ROI
Free cashflow: £m 
Working capital as % of revenue
Underlying organic revenue growth: % p.a.
ROTCE: %
Maintain stable attractive margins
Operating margin is an important measure of the 
success of the businesses in achieving superior 
margins by offering strongly differentiated products 
and customer focused solutions, as well as by  
running efficient operations. 
Accelerate growth through carefully selected 
value enhancing acquisitions
To complement the Group’s organic growth 
strategy, the Group has an on-going acquisition 
programme, designed to accelerate growth and 
to facilitate entry into related strategic markets. 
Generate consistently strong cash flow to fund 
growth strategy and dividends
Free cash flow is defined as the cash flow 
generated after tax, but before acquisitions and 
dividends. This measures the success of the  
Group and its businesses in turning profit into  
cash through the careful management of  
working capital and investments in fixed assets. 
Create value by consistently exceeding 20% ROTCE
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) is 
defined as adjusted operating profit as a percentage 
of trading capital employed (“TCE”). TCE excludes  
net cash and non-operating assets and liabilities, but 
includes all goodwill and acquired intangible assets. 
Generate stable “GDP plus” organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle
The businesses target organic revenue growth, 
over the economic cycle, at a rate of 5–6% p.a. 
(“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates 
achieved at the Group level through carefully 
selected value enhancing acquisitions. 
16%
p.a. 
compound
+
6%
p.a. 
average
17-18% average
>
20% ROI 
£22m 
p.a. 
average
17% average
23% average
“ Our business model has delivered 
record performance in the year.” Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
06
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high quality, 
specialised businesses supplying technical products 
and services to customers in the Life Sciences, Seals 
and Controls industries. The Group’s business model 
is designed to achieve the twin objectives of stable 
organic revenue growth and sustainable attractive 
margins. Growth is then accelerated through carefully 
selected, value-enhancing acquisitions which fit the 
Group’s business model and offer entry into new 
strategic markets.
We aim to achieve these objectives by focusing on 
businesses which supply essential products and services 
which are funded by the customers’ operating rather 
than their capital budgets, providing recurring income 
and stable revenue growth. Our businesses then design 
their individual business models to closely meet the 
requirements of their customers, offering a blend of 
high quality customer service, deep technical support 
and value adding activities. By supplying essential 
solutions, not just products, we build strong long-term 
relationships with our customers and suppliers, which 
support attractive and sustainable margins. Finally we 
encourage an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses 
through our decentralised management structure. We 
want our managers to feel that they have the freedom 
to run their own businesses, while being able to draw 
on the support and resources of a larger group. These 
essential values ensure that decisions are made close  
to the customer and that the businesses are agile  
and responsive to changes in the market and the 
competitive environment. 
The Group’s business model has been closely tested 
over the last three years. The businesses proved their 
resilience through the 2009 global downturn with 
Group revenues growing by 2% (albeit a decline on 
an underlying basis) and operating margins held at 
a creditable 16% of revenue. As markets have slowly 
recovered following the recession, the Group has moved 
forward strongly, posting seven quarters of growth 
in revenues and profits since the recovery started in 
early 2010 and outperforming economic and market 
benchmarks. This level of relative performance confirms 
that the operating businesses have succeeded in further 
penetrating their markets by maintaining high customer 
service levels and adding product lines through 
the downturn. 
Operating Performance
In 2011, revenues increased by 26% to £230.6m (2010: 
£183.5m) with underlying growth of 17% after adjusting 
for currency effects and acquisitions. As revenues have 
increased, the businesses have continued to manage 
costs carefully in view of continuing uncertainty over the 
sustainability of the recovery. With the resulting benefits 
of operational leverage, adjusted operating margins have 
increased to 19.6% of revenue (2010: 17.5%). 
The operating margins achieved this year are well above 
the three year average of ca. 18% of revenue. It is likely 
that over time operating margins will gradually trend 
back towards this average, as resources will need to be 
increased to support higher levels of revenue. In addition, 
there will be increased investment in fixed assets to 
ensure that the IT environment and the facilities in the 
businesses provide a robust foundation for further 
growth; this investment will result in higher operating 
costs and depreciation. In 2012, for example, three of 
the businesses will be moving into new facilities at a total 
cost of ca. £1m – the IS-Group in Swindon, RT Dygert in 
Minneapolis and Vantage Endoscopy in Toronto.
Free cash flow in 2011 has again been strong at £25.0m 
against a very strong prior year comparative (2010: 
£29.8m), which had been boosted by the proceeds from 
the sale of the Anachem businesses, as well as by a 
reduction in working capital across the Group. During 
2010, working capital had fallen to the level of 15.4% of 
revenue as suppliers struggled to keep pace with 
increasing demand for their products. By the end of the 
2011 financial year, working capital had moved back to a 
more normal level of 16.1% of revenue, with an additional 
investment of £7.4m. 
During the year, £28.2m was invested in acquisitions, 
principally in the Canadian Healthcare business. Return 
on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) has increased to 
25.4% (2010: 22.1%) principally driven by the improved 
operating margins. 
Sector Developments
The Group’s strategic objective is to build more 
substantial, broader based businesses in each of its 
chosen sectors through a combination of organic growth 
and acquisition. Good progress was made in the year in 
executing this strategy in each of the three sectors and 
the key developments this year are summarised below.  07
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
l ife Sciences
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 74.4 55.4 +34%
Operating profit 17.1 11.9 +44%
Operating margin 23.0% 21.5%
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 
2011 by 34%, boosted by the contribution from the 
acquisition in December 2010 of CMI and also modest 
currency translation benefits. Underlying sector revenues 
increased by 12% after adjusting for the acquisition and 
currency effects. Operating margins increased by 150 
basis points to 23.0% (2010: 21.5%), mainly driven by 
improved profitability in the Environmental business. 
The Group’s Healthcare businesses in Canada and 
now Australia (“Diploma Healthcare Group” or “DHG”), 
account for almost 80% of the Life Sciences sector 
revenues. They operate in healthcare markets which are 
largely public sector funded and where the demand from 
growing, aging and well-educated patient populations 
drives a steady growth in funding (on average 6–7% p.a. 
growth over 15 years in Canada). Within these markets, 
the DHG businesses supply specialised products which 
are used in the pathology laboratories, operating rooms 
(“OR”) and endoscopy suites of the hospitals as well as 
private clinics. During the recession there were initiatives 
to control costs including limits imposed on the number 
and cost of specific medical procedures and diagnostic 
tests and extended tender processes for capital 
equipment. However, overall Healthcare expenditure has 
continued to grow steadily in real terms and there has 
been some evidence of an easing of capital approvals.
The DHG business model is built on the supply, on an 
exclusive basis, of high quality, manufacturer branded 
products secured by long-term distribution agreements. 
Strong customer relationships are forged through high 
levels of customer service, with highly qualified and 
experienced technical sales and product application 
staff working closely with the surgeons, OR nurses 
and laboratory technologists. A large proportion (over 
60%) of DHG’s revenues are secured under multi-year 
customer contracts.
During the year, DHG expanded its business in Canada 
through the acquisition of CMI, a supplier of medical 
devices, consumables and service to GI Endoscopy 
suites in hospitals and clinics across Canada. CMI shares 
a common customer base with the endoscopy business 
within our existing AMT company and the products are 
very complementary with few overlaps. With effect from 
the start of the new financial year, the businesses were 
combined under a single management team, with the 
new name of Vantage Endoscopy (“Vantage”) and with 
plans to relocate to a new facility in the first half of the 
year. Vantage is now able to offer to its GI Endoscopy 
customers, the most complete range of products, 
including endoscopic imaging and reprocessing systems, 
therapeutic technologies and devices and other essential 
accessories and service support.
There are now three similar sized, growing DHG 
businesses in Canada, the Somagen clinical diagnostics 
business, AMT’s core electrosurgery business and 
Vantage. Each of these businesses has good potential for 
further growth by continuing to penetrate core markets, 
as well as by adding new product lines and suppliers. 
In Australia, BGS is a smaller version of AMT which was 
acquired towards the end of 2010. During the year 
investment was made to generate stronger growth by 
employing direct sales staff to replace sub-distributors in 
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and New Zealand. 
The remaining 20% of the sector revenues are generated 
by the a1-group of Environmental businesses in Europe, 
which supply a range of products used in Environmental 
Testing and Health & Safety applications. The market 
demand is largely driven by regulation which ensures 
steady demand for the essential consumable products, 
though customers do defer capital expenditure during 
economic downturns. 
The a1-envirosciences group, following its restructuring 
in 2010, now has its principal operations in Germany 
and Switzerland with other Northern European markets 
served through sales and service staff. The benefits 
of the restructuring have been seen this year in the 
improvement in operating margins. The CBISS business 
in the UK has seen good growth in its sales of emissions 
monitoring systems, both in replacement systems for 
traditional power stations and new systems for alternative 
power plants (e.g. waste, biofuels, syngas). Demand for 
gas detection products has also been strong.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
08
Seals
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 80.0 60.1 +33%
Operating profit 14.9 8.9 +67%
Operating margin 18.6% 14.8%
The Seals sector businesses increased revenues in 2011 
by 33%, boosted by a full year contribution from All Seals, 
acquired in September 2010, and despite modest currency 
translation losses. Underlying sector revenues increased 
by 26% after adjusting for the acquisition and currency 
effects. Operating margins increased by 380 basis points 
to 18.6% (2010: 14.8%), demonstrating the effects of 
operational leverage in this business, as increases in 
operating costs lagged the strong increase in revenue. 
Currently just over 60% of Seals sector revenues are 
generated from the Aftermarket businesses of HFPG 
(Hercules, Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. Own brand sealing 
products, sourced from the same seal manufacturers 
who supply to the original equipment OEMs, are supplied 
to a broad range of mobile machinery applications in 
heavy construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material 
handling and refuse collection. The principal market 
drivers are therefore the growth in the general industrial 
economy and in particular heavy construction. 
In the core Aftermarket business in North America, the 
key to success is the ability to provide a next day delivery 
service from inventory, for seals and seal kits used in 
a broad range of different manufacturers’ machinery 
and different applications. Typically the first three years 
of equipment life is controlled by the OEMs through 
product warranty and lease terms. However, after the 
equipment is sold into the pre-used market or moves out 
of warranty, Hercules has a very compelling offering to 
customers by providing a responsive, next day delivery 
service for these time critical items.
The Aftermarket business was insulated from the worst 
of the 2009 recession, by its focus on customers’ 
operational rather than capital budgets. As a result, 
it rebounded less strongly in 2010. In 2011, however, 
revenues increased by over 25% which suggests a 
significant increase in market share driven by the high 
level of customer service levels maintained during 
the downturn.
 
Outside North America, the main focus for development 
has been in Europe where good progress has been made 
in both direct sales in the UK and Benelux countries, 
as well as the appointment of sub-distributors to 
distribute Hercules seal kits in other mainland European 
countries. Initiatives are also being developed to increase 
penetration in other developing markets in Asia Pacific 
and South America.
The Industrial OEM business now represents close to 
40% of sector revenues following the addition of All 
Seals to the RT Dygert and M Seals businesses. These 
companies supply seals, O-rings and custom moulded 
and machined parts to a range of specialised Industrial 
OEM customers. Applications include spray painting 
guns, water filtration, wind power mills, hearing aids and 
medical devices. On a like-for-like basis, these businesses 
have increased revenues by 25% in 2011 and are 
experiencing demand well ahead of pre-recession levels.
The acquisition of All Seals has extended the Group’s 
coverage in the US, with its strong position in California 
and the South Western States complementing RT 
Dygert’s strength in the Mid-western States. M Seals has 
further penetrated its core Scandinavian markets from its 
operations in Denmark and Sweden and has established 
a wholly owned foreign enterprise (“WOFE”) in Tianjin to 
trade directly with wind power customers in China. 
Controls
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 76.2 68.0 +12%
Operating profit 13.2 11.3 +17%
Operating margin 17.3% 16.6%
The Controls sector businesses increased revenues in 
2011 by 12% in both UK sterling and constant currency 
terms. Operating margins increased by 70 basis points to 
17.3% (2010: 16.6%). 
The IS-Group (UK), Sommer and Filcon businesses 
supply high performance wiring, connectors, fasteners 
and control devices used in a range of technically 
demanding applications. The businesses offer high 
quality, manufacturer branded products sourced under 
the terms of long term exclusive distribution agreements. 
Strong customer relationships are based on ex-stock 
availability of product, responsiveness, technical 
advice on product applications and a range of value 
added services. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued 09
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The largest end user sector is Defence & Aerospace. 
Here, the businesses do not typically supply to 
major platform OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, who are 
mostly served direct by the manufacturers. Rather, 
the businesses supply into repair, refurbishment and 
upgrade programmes, as well as supplying to Tier 2 
electronics customers, where ex-stock availability and 
responsiveness are important. The businesses therefore 
are less exposed to cutbacks and postponements in 
major defence programmes as a result of the Strategic 
Defence Reviews in the UK and Germany; though 
inevitably there will be some impact longer term at 
the sub-contractor and component supply level. In 
Commercial Aerospace, the businesses supply products 
principally for the initial installation and subsequent 
upgrades of aircraft interiors. After falling back in 2009, 
demand picked up in 2010 and as passenger numbers 
continue to recover, the sector appears to be returning to 
its long-term projected growth rate of ca. 5% p.a.
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised 
technical applications in the General Industrial market. 
The underlying market drivers are the growth of the 
industrial economies in Europe (in particular the UK 
and Germany), but demand tends to be more stable 
in the specialised sub-sectors in which we operate. In 
Motorsport, activity increased sharply with a successful 
F1 racing season and growth in the Indycar and Nascar 
series in the US, the DTM series in Germany and the 
World Rally Championship. Medical Equipment is 
another specialised market where demand has been 
stable and in Energy, there has been strong demand 
from the manufacturers of electrical generators and 
commercial batteries. The closure of the older nuclear 
plants in Germany will also require infrastructure 
investment in the power distribution network. 
Hawco serves the Commercial Refrigeration market 
in the UK which continues to be buoyant, driven 
by investment by the major food retailers in new 
convenience stores and in energy saving technologies 
when refurbishing existing outlets.
Acquisition Activity
Over the last five years, the Group has invested ca. £91m 
in acquisitions across the sectors and geographies – an 
average of ca. £18m p.a. The success in financial terms 
can be measured broadly by the profit return on the total 
investment which currently stands at over 20%. In 2011, 
a total of £28.2m was invested, mainly in the Canadian 
Healthcare business in the acquisition of CMI and the 
purchase of the 25% minority shareholdings in AMT. 
While the time and effort invested in the acquisition 
programme is a sustained activity, the results can be 
more irregular. We find that most success tends to 
come at times when the business cycle is changing 
and creating uncertainty. For example, when markets 
are slowing down after an extended period of growth, 
this may encourage owners to sell ahead of a market 
downturn. Alternatively, in the early stages of recovery, 
when confidence is building in future projections, 
owners who have delayed selling during a downturn may 
come back to the table. With the performance of many 
businesses having recovered since the 2009 recession, 
but uncertainty remaining as to the sustainability of the 
recovery, we believe that there will continue to be good 
opportunities for value adding acquisitions.
Summary and Outlook
The continued strong performance of the Group and 
the resilience shown over the last five years gives us 
confidence that we can maintain the “GDP plus” levels 
of underlying revenue growth over the business cycle. 
The Group is well diversified by geography and business 
area and the business model supports stable revenue 
growth and sustainable, attractive margins. Although 
general economic uncertainty over the strength 
of global markets continues to grow, we see good 
opportunities for future development, both organically 
and through acquisition. 
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
21 November 2011
