 06 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
“ In 2012 the Group has continued 
the growth trend with Adjusted 
EPS increasing by 19% and TSR 
by over 50%.”
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Principal corporate 
objectives
Achieve double digit growth in adjusted 
EPS over the business cycle
Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), 
measured over the business cycle, 
provides an absolute benchmark of the 
Company’s performance. Over the last 
ﬁve years, adjusted EPS has grown at 
a compound growth rate of 20% p.a. 
through a combination of steady 
organic growth and carefully 
targeted acquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper 
quartile of the FTSE 250 
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) is the 
growth in value of a share plus the value 
of dividends re-invested in the Company’s 
shares on the day on which they are paid. 
This is measured against the TSR growth 
of the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding 
investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”). The last 
ﬁve years have seen a compound TSR 
growth for Diploma of 21% p.a., which 
represents upper quartile performance 
as compared with the FTSE 250, where 
median TSR growth has been 5% p.a. 
Deliver progressive dividend growth 
with two times dividend cover
Diploma follows a progressive dividend 
policy with a target cover of two times 
on an adjusted EPS basis. Over the last 
ﬁve years, dividends have steadily grown 
at the rate of 22% p.a. and this continues 
the trend of increasing dividends in each 
of the last 13 years. 
Diploma (rebased) FTSE 250 (rebased, ex Investment Trusts)
Sep 07
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over ﬁve years 07
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
“ Continuing strong performance delivers 
long term value to shareholders.”
2012 £260.2m
£230.6m
£183.5m
£160.0m
£156.2m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Total revenue £m
2012 +6%
+17%
+11%
-12%
+8%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Underlying organic revenue growth % p.a.
2012 20.3%
19.6%
17.5%
16.0%
17.0%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Operating margin as % of revenue
2012 £22.3m
£28.2m
£11.0m
£12.2m
£7.9m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Acquisition spend £m
2012 £32.7m
£25.0m
£29.8m
£23.5m
£17.7m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Free cash ﬂow £m
2012 16.5%
16.1%
15.4%
17.6%
17.2%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Working capital as % of revenue
2012 26.6%
25.4%
22.1%
19.0%
22.4%
2011
2010
2009
2008
ROTCE %
Generate stable “GDP plus” organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle
The businesses target organic revenue growth, 
over the economic cycle, at a rate of 5–6% p.a. 
(“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates 
achieved at the Group level through carefully 
selected value enhancing acquisitions. 
Maintain stable attractive margins
Operating margin is an important measure of 
the success of the businesses in achieving superior 
margins by offering strongly differentiated products 
and customer focused solutions, as well as by running 
efficient operations. 
Accelerate growth through carefully selected 
value enhancing acquisitions
To complement the Group’s organic growth 
strategy, the Group has an ongoing acquisition 
programme, designed to accelerate growth and 
to facilitate entry into related strategic markets.
Generate consistently strong cash ﬂow to fund 
growth strategy and dividends
Free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the cash ﬂow 
generated after tax, but before acquisitions 
and dividends. This measures the success of 
the Group and its businesses in turning proﬁt 
into cash through the careful management of 
working capital and investments in ﬁxed assets.
Create value by consistently exceeding 
20% ROTCE
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) 
is deﬁned as adjusted operating proﬁt as a 
percentage of trading capital employed (“TCE”). 
TCE excludes net cash and non-operating 
assets and liabilities, but includes all goodwill 
and acquired intangible assets.
Next level objectives Key performance indicators
 Total revenue growth: % p.a.
16%
     p.a.
compound
  Underlying organic revenue 
growth: % p.a.
+6%
     p.a.
average
  Operating margins: 
% of revenue
18% average
 Acquisition spend: £m
>20%ROI
 Free cash ﬂow: £m
£26m
     p.a.
average
 Working capital as % of revenue
16 - 1 7% average
 ROTCE: %
23%
     
average 08 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
2012 Year in Review
Proven Strategy for Growth
The Group’s strategy is designed to generate strong, 
double-digit growth in earnings and value over the business 
cycle, by building larger, broader-based businesses in the three 
Diploma sectors of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. Over the 
last ﬁve years, adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) and total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) have grown at compound growth 
rates of 20% pa and 21% pa, respectively. 
In 2012, the Group has continued this growth trend, with adjusted 
EPS growing by 19% and TSR by over 50%. In addition, the Group 
has made signiﬁcant progress in making the investments needed 
to lay the robust foundation for continued growth in the next ﬁve 
year period. 
 
Good Operating Performance
In 2012, revenues increased by 13% to £260.2m (2011: £230.6m) 
with underlying growth of 6% after adjusting for currency 
effects, acquisitions and a small divestment. Adjusted operating 
margins for the year have increased to 20.3% of revenue 
(2011: 19.6%), though margins have reduced from the record 
high of 20.8% at the Half Year mainly due to the investment 
programmes which have been initiated during the year.
Signiﬁcant progress has been made since the Half Year with the 
planned investments designed to support the future growth of 
the business. Two of the Industrial OEM Seals businesses in the 
US, RT Dygert and All Seals, both completed moves to larger 
new facilities. IS-Rayfast, the UK Controls business and Vantage, 
the Canadian Healthcare business, have also completed major 
facility moves in the ﬁrst quarter of the new ﬁnancial year. Three 
new IT projects have been started in the businesses, with further 
projects planned for later in the year. Finally, investment has 
been made in additional management resource within the 
major businesses and in the Diploma corporate group. In total, 
£2.1m of the planned £6.0m cash investment was made in the 
second half of the year, leading to additional operating costs of 
ca. £1.0m being added this year to support future growth. 
Even after these additional investments, free cash ﬂow in 2012 
has again been strong at £32.7m (2011: £25.0m), with working 
capital as a percentage of revenue at 16.5%, in line with the 
longer term average of 16–17%. 
During the year, £20.8m was invested in the acquisition of DSL 
in Life Sciences, J Royal in Seals and Abbeychart and Amfast in 
Controls and a 10% minority interest in JRPP purchased for £0.7m. 
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) has increased to 
26.6% (2011: 25.4%) driven by the growth in proﬁts and strong 
management of working capital across the businesses.
Resilient Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised 
businesses which design their individual business models to make 
them essential to their customers. Our businesses are focused  
on supplying essential products and services which are funded 
by the customers’ operating rather than their capital budgets, 
providing recurring income and stable revenue growth. By 
supplying essential solutions, not just products, we build strong 
long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, which 
support sustainable and attractive margins. Finally we encourage 
an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through our 
decentralised management structure and these essential values 
ensure that decisions are made close to the customer and that 
the businesses are agile and responsive to changes in the market 
and the competitive environment. 
Acquire, Build, Grow Strategy to Drive Double Digit Growth
Our businesses target organic revenue growth over the business 
cycle at the rate of 5–6% pa (“GDP plus” growth). Growth is then 
accelerated through carefully selected, value-enhancing 
acquisitions which ﬁt the business model and offer entry into 
new strategic markets. These acquisitions form an integral part 
of our sector growth strategies, designed to deliver strong 
double digit growth.
In general, when we acquire businesses, the acquisitions we 
make are of companies which ﬁt our business model and which 
are already successful, with a good track record. They will be 
marketing led with strong customer relationships and will have  
a secure supply of high quality, differentiated products. They  
will have capable management and a track record of stable, 
proﬁtable growth and cash generation. The objective is to 
generate a pre-tax return on investment (“ROI”) of at least 20% 
on each acquisition and hence support our Group objective 
of consistently exceeding 20% ROTCE.
The acquired businesses have often reached the point where 
additional resources are needed to take them to the next level of 
growth. Working with management, we provide the investment 
required to build a ﬁrm foundation to allow the business to move 
to a new level of growth. The investment will normally be in new 
facilities and IT systems, increased but carefully managed working 
capital and additional management resource.
Once the acquisition is integrated into the Group and a solid 
platform has been established, the priority is to grow the 
business. The acquired companies (other than small bolt-on 
acquisitions) maintain their distinct sales and marketing identity 
and are managed as independent business units. Where there 
are opportunities for real synergies, typically in cross-selling, 
purchasing and back office operations, the businesses are 
managed within larger business clusters.  09
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Sector Developments
Good progress was made during the year in executing the 
Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in each of the three sectors and the 
key developments and results this year are summarised below. 
Life Sciences
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 78.4 74.4 +5%
Adjusted operating proﬁt 18.0 17.1 +5%
Adjusted operating margin 23.0% 23.0%
 Underlying revenue growth of 5%.
 Investment in newly formed Vantage business – integrated 
sales team, strengthened service and operations 
management, new facility.
 Investment in new Minimally Invasive Surgery business 
within AMT.
 Acquisition of DSL business in Australia – major new supplier 
added shortly after acquisition.
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2012 
by 5% on a UK sterling basis, with a similar level of growth on 
a constant currency basis. Sector revenues beneﬁted from the 
contribution from the DSL business in Australia, acquired in June 
2012 and a full year contribution from the CMI business, acquired 
in December 2010. In May 2012, the small Environmental 
operation in Switzerland was sold to its management thus 
reducing revenues. After adjusting for these acquisitions and the 
divestment, for minor currency effects and for the exceptional 
sale of face shields in the prior year, underlying sector revenues 
increased by 5%.
The Group’s Healthcare businesses in Canada and Australia 
(“Diploma Healthcare Group” or “DHG”) account for over 80%  
of the Life Sciences sector revenues. The DHG business model  
is built on the supply, on an exclusive basis, of high quality, 
manufacturer branded products secured by long term 
distribution agreements. Strong customer relationships are forged 
through high levels of customer service with highly qualiﬁed and 
experienced technical sales and product application staff working 
closely with the surgeons, Operating Room (“OR”) nurses and 
laboratory technologists. A large proportion (over 60%) of DHG’s 
revenues are secured under multi-year customer contracts.
In Canada, DHG comprises three similar sized businesses 
focused on Electrosurgery (AMT), GI Endoscopy (Vantage) 
and Clinical Diagnostics (Somagen), each with good growth 
potential. During the year, the main investment has been in the 
new Vantage business, which from the start of the year brought 
together CMI, acquired in 2010, with AMT’s Endoscopy division. 
Vantage now operates under a single management team and 
offers a complete product range, taken to market by an 
integrated, fully trained sales team. Investment has been 
made in strengthening the management of the operational 
and service teams and shortly after the year end, the business 
relocated to a new larger facility close to the existing location in 
Markham, Ontario. After a year of consolidation, Vantage is  
now well positioned, with a strong management team, a solid 
operational foundation and a complete product range, to 
exploit opportunities for growth in the GI Endoscopy market.
Investment has also been made during the year in building a 
new Surgical business to supply specialised surgical instruments 
and devices used in laparoscopic and other minimally invasive 
surgical procedures. Exclusive distribution agreements have 
been signed with a number of leading suppliers in this area and 
several new suppliers are in the process of being added. This 
business will be developed as a distinct division within AMT, 
but using the existing infrastructure. As with AMT’s former 
GI Endoscopy division, this division has the potential of growing 
into a separate business when it has achieved critical mass 
through organic growth and/or acquisition.
The DHG business extended geographically in 2010 into 
Australia with the acquisition of BGS, a smaller version of the 
AMT business in Canada. In June 2012, DHG expanded its 
presence in Australia through the acquisition of 80% of DSL, 
which supplies in-vitro diagnostic products to hospitals and 
private laboratories and shares a number of common suppliers 
with Somagen. DSL and BGS serve different customer segments 
and will be managed as separate business units with their own 
distinct sales and marketing identities. There will however be 
good opportunities for efficiencies between the businesses 
in the areas of operations and back office functions. 
The remaining ca. 15% of sector revenues are generated by 
the Group’s Environmental businesses in Europe, which supply 
a range of products used in Environmental Testing and Health & 
Safety applications. CBISS has experienced another strong year 
of trading, supplying continuous emissions monitoring systems 
and gas detection instruments. a1-envirosciences has fully 
consolidated its operations in Dusseldorf, Germany following 
the sale to management of the small operation in Switzerland. 
Northern European markets outside Germany are serviced by 
local sales and service resources. 
Seals
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 99.9 80.0 +25%
Adjusted operating proﬁt 20.4 14.9 +37%
Adjusted operating margin 20.4% 18.6%
 Underlying revenue growth of 13%; particularly strong in 
North American Aftermarket.
 Acquisition of J Royal in the US and minority interest in JRPP , 
a related supplier in China.
 Investment in new modern facilities for RT Dygert and 
All Seals.
 New IT system in development at M Seals – to go live in 2013. 10 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
2012 Year in Review continued
The Seals sector revenues increased, in UK sterling terms, by 
25% to £99.9m which included a contribution from J Royal, 
acquired in December 2011. After adjusting for this acquisition 
and for modest currency translation effects, underlying sector 
revenues increased by 13%, reﬂecting particularly strong growth 
in the North American Aftermarket businesses. Adjusted 
operating proﬁts increased by 37% with adjusted operating 
margins increasing by 180bps to 20.4%, driven by operational 
leverage from the strong increase in revenues. 
Currently, just under 60% of Seals sector revenues are generated 
from the Aftermarket seals businesses of HFPG (Hercules, 
Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. The core Aftermarket business 
in North America supplies own-brand sealing products (often 
sourced from the same seal manufacturers who supply to the 
OEMs) across a broad range of mobile machinery applications. 
The key to success in this business is the ability to provide a  
next day delivery service from inventory, for seals and seal kits 
used in a broad range of different manufacturers’ machinery 
and different applications. Typically the ﬁrst three years of 
equipment life is controlled by the OEMs through product 
warranty and lease terms. However, after the equipment is  
sold into the pre-used market or moves out of warranty, we 
have a very compelling offering to customers by providing a 
responsive, next day delivery service for these time critical items. 
Over a number of business cycles, the Aftermarket seals 
businesses have demonstrated their resilience, but have also 
delivered strong underlying growth by taking market share.  
This has been achieved by maintaining high levels of customer 
service and product availability and continuing investment in  
IT systems and warehouse automation. The steady revenue 
growth over many years has delivered increased operational 
gearing with operating margins increasing substantially to the 
current levels, which are well in excess of 20% of revenues.
During the year, the Aftermarket businesses continued to 
beneﬁt from investments made in earlier years and succeeded 
in growing revenues by 14% on an underlying basis. This  
growth was achieved through a combination of new product 
introductions (new kits and metric seals in HFPG, broader range 
of cylinder parts in FPE) and various segment speciﬁc marketing 
initiatives. Selective price increases were also introduced to 
cover supplier cost increases and maintain margins. HKX in 
particular had an exceptional year, beneﬁting from the strong 
rebound in the excavator market in North America and making 
good progress in penetrating international markets. 
The Industrial OEM businesses now account for just over  
40% of Seal sector revenues. These businesses supply seals, 
O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts to a range  
of specialised Industrial OEM customers. Our businesses work 
closely with customers to select the best seal manufacturer  
for the application, remain close at hand during the product 
development process and provide the logistics capabilities to 
support from inventory, small to medium sized production runs.
During the year, signiﬁcant investment was made in the US 
businesses to establish a solid foundation for future growth. 
RT Dygert consolidated its Minneapolis and Chicago operations 
into a single, modern facility in Minneapolis, while retaining a sales 
office in Chicago. All Seals invested in new sales resource and 
improved quality and purchasing processes. All Seals also moved 
into a more appropriate modern facility just before the end of 
the ﬁnancial year. 
The acquisition of J Royal was completed in December 2011 
and this has proved a very complementary business to RT 
Dygert and All Seals. J Royal’s strength in the Eastern United 
States ﬁts well with RT Dygert (strong in the North and North 
West) and All Seals (strong in the West and South West).  
J Royal also brings its specialist experience in selling metal  
and glass components and assemblies that complement the 
more traditional sealing products. The investment in a 10% 
shareholding in JRPP , a key supplier to J Royal and based 
in China, reinforced this position.
With the investment this year in new facilities and strengthened 
management resources and with clear regional sales territories 
now agreed, these three Industrial OEM businesses in the US 
will now focus on delivering growth in the new ﬁnancial year. 
M Seals in Denmark is also focused on growth with a fast 
developing business in Sweden and the operation in China having 
delivered a solid ﬁrst year. The Industrial OEM seal businesses will 
be managed independently by their management teams, but 
they will continue to look for synergies by cross-selling (taking 
advantage of different product and end-user specialisations) 
and through coordinated purchasing. 
Controls
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 81.9 76.2 +7%
Adjusted operating proﬁt 14.4 13.2 +9%
Adjusted operating margin 17.6% 17.3%
 Underlying revenue growth of 2% driven by Aerospace & 
Defence, Motorsport, Energy and Industrial sectors; reduced 
activity in Continental Europe and Food & Beverage.
 Acquisition of Amfast extends Motorsport fastener business 
into Aerospace.
 Acquisition of Abbeychart extends involvement in Food & 
Beverage sector.
 New Swindon facility will be central management and 
operational hub for IS-Group businesses in the UK.
The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 7% on a 
UK sterling basis. After adjusting for currency effects and for the 
acquisitions of Amfast and Abbeychart, underlying growth was 
2%. Adjusted operating proﬁts increased by 9% to £14.4m with 
operating margins remaining stable at 17.6%.  11
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
The major end-use segments served by the IS-Group and 
Filcon businesses (together ca. 70% of sector revenues) are 
Aerospace & Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical and 
Industrial. The businesses supply a range of high performance 
products used in technically demanding applications often in 
harsh environments. Here the business model is focused on 
providing product for refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance 
programmes for equipment in service. Support to major new 
build programmes is mostly limited to prototype and initial build 
stages and niche OEM markets. The businesses offer high 
quality, manufacturer branded products sourced under the 
terms of long term exclusive distribution agreements. Strong 
customer relationships are based on ex-stock availability of 
product, responsiveness, technical advice on product 
applications and a range of value added services. 
Plans were ﬁnalised during the year, for the relocation of 
the IS-Rayfast business into a new modern facility close to 
the existing location in Swindon; the move was successfully 
completed in early November of the new ﬁnancial year. This 
facility will accommodate the core IS-Rayfast business and will 
also act as the central management and operational hub for  
the IS-Group businesses in the UK. 
Investment was also made in the acquisition in May 2012 
of Amfast, a specialist distributor of fasteners supplied to the 
manufacturers of passenger seats, galleys and other interior 
cabin equipment for civil aircraft. Amfast shares a number 
of suppliers with Clarendon, which supplies similar fastener 
products into Motorsport applications. Clarendon and Amfast 
will be managed together by a single management team and 
plans will be developed this year to integrate operational and 
back office functions. In early November 2012, after the year 
end, Sommer completed the acquisition of the assets and 
goodwill of Rayquick, a small distributor of specialist wiring 
components supplied to the electricity distribution sector in 
Germany. Sommer will integrate this business within its main 
operations in Stuttgart. 
The Hawco Group accounts for ca. 30% of sector revenues and 
supplies products principally to the Food & Beverage industry. 
Hawco supplies a range of control devices used in the sensing, 
measurement and control of temperature and pressure in 
applications such as chilled cabinets in food retail chains, bars 
and restaurants. In March 2012, the Hawco Group extended  
its involvement in the sector by investing in the acquisition of 
Abbeychart. This business is a specialised component distributor 
supplying to applications including hot drinks and vending 
machines, pure water and water cooling systems, soft drinks 
dispensing equipment and catering equipment. Abbeychart’s 
broad range of specialised components are used by both the 
original equipment manufacturers and by contractors and 
operators for the subsequent repair and maintenance of  
the equipment. 
Summary and Outlook
The Group’s resilient business model, supplying essential 
products and solutions to specialised market segments, 
supports steady organic growth in revenues and sustainable 
attractive margins. With a good geographic and end-use spread 
of activities, agile and responsive management and a strong 
balance sheet, the Group is well placed to withstand the 
effects of the general economic uncertainty. This has been 
demonstrated over the last ﬁve year business cycle with 
a resilient performance during the downturn, followed 
by strong growth in the recent period of slow recovery.
The investments made during the past ﬁnancial year, along 
with the new investment programme in the years ahead, are 
key to the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in our major businesses. 
These investments are designed to provide the solid foundation 
for the growth of the Group over the next ﬁve year period.
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
19 November 2012
