 12 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s  
Review
“ Another year of strong underlying 
growth with an improving 
acquisition environment” 
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Underlying revenue growth
8%
Strong 
performance 
across all three 
Sectors
  INVESTMENT FOR 
GROWTH PROGRAMME 
HAS ESTABLISHED 
FIRM FOUNDATION 
FOR GROWTH
  STRONG C ONSUMABLE 
REVENUES; 9% 
UNDERLYING  
GROWTH 
  GOOD PROGRESS IN 
AFTERMARKET AND 
INDUSTRIAL OEMS; 7% 
UNDERLYING GROWTH
  GOOD DEMAND ACROSS 
MARKET SECTORS; 8% 
UNDERLYING GROWTH
  MORE POSITIVE 
ACQUISITION 
ENVIRONMENT WITH 
IMPROVED PIPELINE 
  REPORTED RESULTS HELD 
BACK BY TRANSLATIONAL 
IMPACT OF STRONG 
UK STERLING
Year in review
GROUP
LIFE SCIENCES
SEALS
CONTROLS
ACQUISITIONS
GROUP 13 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report
In 2014, the Group has delivered underlying 
revenue growth of 8% (after adjusting for 
acquisitions and currency effects) with a 
strong performance across all three Sectors. 
Adjusted operating margins remained 
robust at 18.5% of revenue. In an improving 
environment for acquisitions, £16.5m was 
invested in acquisitions which contributed 
£15.4m to revenues this year. This addition 
to revenues was offset by the adverse 
translation effect of the stronger UK sterling 
which reduced revenues by £17.7m. Free 
cash flow increased by 20% to £37.8m and 
return on adjusted trading capital employed 
(“ROATCE”) was maintained at 25.8%.
Business model and growth strategy
The Group’s strategy is designed to 
generate strong, double-digit growth 
in earnings and shareholder value over 
the business cycle, by building larger, 
broader-based businesses in the three 
Group Sectors of Life Sciences, Seals 
and Controls. 
Our businesses target “GDP plus” levels 
of organic revenue growth over the 
business cycle. Stable and resilient revenue 
growth is achieved through our focus on 
essential products and services funded 
by customers’ operating rather than 
capital budgets and supplied across a 
range of specialised industry segments. 
By supplying essential solutions, not 
just products, we build strong long term 
relationships with our customers and 
suppliers, which support sustainable and 
attractive margins. Finally we encourage an 
entrepreneurial culture in our businesses 
through our decentralised management 
structure and these essential values ensure 
that decisions are made close to the 
customer and that the businesses are agile 
and responsive to changes in the market 
and the competitive environment. 
Overall growth is accelerated from the 
underlying GDP plus levels to the corporate 
target of strong, double-digit growth, 
through carefully selected, value-enhancing 
acquisitions which fit the business model 
and offer entry into new strategic markets. 
Acquisitions are not made just to add 
revenue and profit, but rather to bring into 
the Group successful businesses which have 
growth potential, capable management 
and a good track record of profitable 
growth and cash generation. As part of our 
Acquire, Build, Grow strategy, we invest in 
the businesses post acquisition to build a 
firm foundation to allow them to move to 
a new level of growth. These acquisitions 
form a critical part of our Sector growth 
strategies and are designed to generate a 
pre-tax return on investment of at least 20% 
and hence support our Group objective of 
consistently exceeding 20% ROATCE.
Performance against objectives and KPIs
The Group’s principal corporate objectives 
relate to growth in adjusted earnings per 
share (“EPS”) and total shareholder return 
(“TSR”). Growth in the year in adjusted EPS 
has been 4% and growth in TSR has been 
8%. Over a five year period, compound 
growth rates for adjusted EPS and TSR have 
been 20% p.a. and 36% p.a. respectively. 
Underpinning the principal corporate 
objectives are a set of further objectives, 
with related key performance indicators 
(“KPIs”) which are used to measure 
performance at the Group level, but 
also to drill down through the operating 
businesses. The first of these next level 
objectives is to generate stable “GDP plus” 
levels of underlying revenue growth over 
the business cycle. 
This year, after adjusting for translational 
currency effects and acquisitions, the 
Group increased revenues by 8% on an 
underlying basis, with strong performance 
across all three Sectors. Life Sciences 
benefited from strong consumable 
revenues across the businesses, offsetting 
weaker capital equipment and service 
revenues and delivered 9% underlying 
revenue growth. In Seals, underlying 
revenues grew by 7%, reflecting a more 
favourable performance in the Aftermarket 
businesses and continuing good growth 
in the Industrial OEM businesses. Controls 
returned to growth this year with good 
demand across its market sectors and 
particularly strong performances from the 
Civil Aerospace, Motorsport and Energy 
markets; underlying revenue growth of 
8% was achieved.
The objective for adjusted operating 
margins is to maintain stable attractive 
margins which reflect the focus 
on specialised segments, strongly 
differentiated products and customer 
focused solutions, combined with 
efficiently run operations. This year, 
adjusted operating margins were 18.5% 
which is comfortably within the five year 
average range of 18–19%. Gross margins 
in the Group’s Healthcare businesses 
came under increasing pressure during 
the year, from the transactional currency 
effects of the strong depreciation of the 
Canadian and Australian dollars. However, 
the impact on Group operating margins 
was limited by tight control of operating 
costs in the Healthcare businesses. More 
broadly, the Group’s Investment for Growth 
programme, started in 2012 and now 
nearing completion, has started to deliver 
the benefits we had expected. As revenues 
have increased, operational leverage has 
reduced operating costs as a percentage of 
revenue and these benefits have offset the 
impact of acquisitions joining the Group 
with lower initial operating margins. 
To achieve the Group’s objective of strong 
double-digit growth, acquisition spend at 
the level of ca.£25m p.a. is targeted. The 
level of spend this year of £16.5m is below 
this target level but is close to the five year 
average of ca.£16m p.a. and is well ahead 
of the prior year spend of only £2m. After 
the financial year end in early October 
2014, a further acquisition was completed 
of 80% of Technopath Distribution (“TPD”) 
and this has taken the acquisition spend to 
ca.£26m in the 2014 calendar year. 
The Group continues to focus strongly 
on free cash flow, which funds the growth 
strategy and allows the Company to provide 
healthy dividends to shareholders. In 2014, 
free cash flow was £37.8m, compared 
with a five year average of £31m p.a. and 
was equivalent to a conversion rate of 
over 90% of adjusted after tax earnings. 
Now that the Investment for Growth 
programme is approaching completion, 
capital expenditure is trending back to 
more normal levels and the principal 
determinant of free cash flow conversion 
Adjusted operating margin
18.5%
“ Free cash flow in the year 
was £37 .8m, a conversion 
rate of over 90%” 14 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Review continued
is now the effective management of 
working capital. The KPI used to measure 
and monitor this performance is working 
capital as a percentage of revenue; in 2014 
this increased to 17.2% compared with both 
the target and the five year average level 
of 16–17%. 
ROATCE is the final indicator of the 
overall performance of the Group 
and very importantly of its success in 
creating value for shareholders. ROATCE 
is measured as the pre-tax return on total 
Group investment excluding net cash, 
but including all goodwill and acquired 
intangible assets. ROATCE has exceeded 
the 20% target in each of the last five years 
and this year was 25.8%.
 
Acquisitions 
Acquisitions are an integral part of the 
Group’s strategy, designed to accelerate 
growth and to facilitate entry into related 
strategic markets. Despite sustained 
and increasing resources focused on 
identifying and completing value-enhancing 
acquisitions, acquisition spend does ebb and 
flow over time. The acquisition environment 
has improved this year after a period when 
the uncertainty over future economic 
prospects had made vendors very cautious, 
resulting in lengthening transaction 
processes and delayed completions. 
During the year, a number of acquisitions 
have been completed which are natural 
extensions of the Group’s existing 
businesses and which have extended the 
scope of the businesses into new products, 
market segments and geographies.
In Life Sciences, DHG extended its 
business in Australia with the acquisition 
of Chemzyme, which has now been 
integrated into DHG’s principal operations 
in Melbourne. During the year DHG also 
acquired the remaining 20% minority 
shareholdings in DSL and shortly after 
the year end, acquired 80% of TPD, an 
established supplier to the Biotechnology, 
Clinical Laboratory and Medical markets 
in Ireland and the UK. The acquisition of 
TPD represents an important first step in 
extending the scope of DHG’s business 
into the markets of Ireland and the UK, as 
well as adding important new products 
and suppliers.
In Seals, the Group acquired 80% of Kentek, 
a specialised filter distributor which adds a 
new product line and extends the reach of 
the Seals activities into the new markets of 
Finland, Russia and the Baltic States. During 
the year, two smaller acquisitions were 
completed in the UK, AB Seals and Ramsay 
Services, which will be managed by FPE 
Seals and M Seals respectively. RT Dygert 
also acquired the remaining 49% in the HPS 
Industrial OEM seal business in Seattle.
In Controls, the fastener business was 
strengthened through the acquisition 
of SFC, a UK fastener distributor which 
has a strong fit with Clarendon and brings 
specialist technical and design skills as well 
as added value assembly expertise. During 
the year, Filcon also acquired the goodwill 
and assets of Sacee, a supplier of specialist 
connectors to the Satellite sector in France; 
Sacee’s operations have been integrated 
into Filcon in Munich.
With an improving acquisition environment, 
a good pipeline of opportunities and 
additional corporate development resources 
in place, prospects for acquisition activity in 
2015 are encouraging. 
ROATCE
25.8%
Acquisition spend (£)
2014
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
0.3m
8.0m
31.6m
12.2m
11.0m
28.2m
22.3m
2.2m
7.9m
16.5m
• Life Sciences – 
Chemzyme, DSL (20%)
• Seals – Kentek (80%), 
Ramsay, AB Seals, 
HPS (49%)
• Controls – SFC, Sacee 15 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report
Gross margins in the Healthcare 
businesses were also significantly 
impacted on a transactional basis by the 
strong depreciation of the Canadian and 
Australian dollars against the US dollar 
and the Euro. These currency effects were 
partly mitigated by an increased proportion 
of higher margin consumable product 
revenues this year, by price concessions 
negotiated with suppliers and by tight 
management of operating costs. There 
were also benefits starting to accrue 
from prior year investments and adjusted 
operating margins decreased by only 
80bps to 21.6%.
Free cash flow increased by 6% to £14.9m, 
reflecting a combination of lower capital 
expenditure and tax payments, offset in part 
by investment in higher working capital.
Strategy development
The DHG group of Healthcare businesses 
account for ca.80% of Life Sciences 
revenues. The DHG business model is to 
build strong market positions in growing 
niche healthcare markets. Products are 
sourced from high quality medical device 
manufacturers under the terms of long 
term exclusive distribution agreements. 
Full service solutions are provided by 
highly qualified technical sales and 
product application staff, working closely 
with surgeons, operating room nurses and 
laboratory technologists. A large proportion 
of revenues (ca.70%) are secured under 
multi-year customer contracts.
In Canada, the three principal businesses 
made good progress during the year 
in expanding the growth potential of 
their businesses with new products and 
new suppliers. Somagen revenues were 
boosted by the supply of new testing kits 
used in the roll-out of colorectal cancer 
screening programmes across three 
Provinces and made good progress with 
new best-in-class products in HbA1c 
diabetes testing and Autoimmunity. AMT 
continued to increase revenues in its new 
minimally invasive (“MI”) Surgery division, 
consolidating its position in the supply 
of specialised surgical instruments used 
in laparoscopic and other MI Surgery 
procedures. Vantage launched its new 
range of endoscopes offering significant 
benefits in terms of image quality and 
handling ability.
There remain significant opportunities for 
DHG in Canada to increase its share in 
its core specialised segments of Clinical 
Diagnostics, Electrosurgery, MI Surgery 
and GI Endoscopy with new products and 
suppliers. DHG is also actively seeking to 
extend its business, either organically or by 
acquisition, into other specialised medical 
disciplines where its business model can 
be deployed successfully.
In Australia, BGS and DSL have grown 
revenues strongly and have now been 
brought together under a newly formed 
leadership group and with operations and 
back office systems consolidated into a 
single facility in Melbourne. Now that DHG 
in Australia has established a firm base with 
sufficient critical mass, it is now looking for 
further opportunities to grow by adding 
bolt-on acquisitions. During the year, 
DHG acquired the assets and goodwill of 
Chemzyme, a small distributor supplying 
products to the sterilising departments in 
hospitals across Australia and New Zealand. 
Chemzyme has been integrated into the 
Melbourne operations and has extended 
the scope of the DHG business in Australia 
with a supplier which also is a key supplier 
to Vantage in Canada. DHG also during the 
year acquired the remaining 20% minority 
shareholdings in DSL.
Shortly after the year end, DHG acquired 
80% of TPD, an established supplier to the 
Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and 
Medical markets in Ireland and the UK. The 
acquisition of TPD represents an important 
first step in extending the scope of DHG’s 
business into the markets of Ireland and 
the UK as well as adding important new 
products and suppliers. Once DHG has 
firmly established its position in these new 
markets, opportunities will be explored in 
further new geographic territories.
The a1-group of Environmental businesses 
accounts for ca.20% of Sector revenues 
and supplies a range of products used in 
Environmental testing and Health & Safety 
applications. The a1-group has been 
successful in recent years by maintaining 
a sharp focus on attractive niche market 
segments and this year has delivered 
strong growth with stable operating 
margins. While maintaining its focus, the 
a1-group is also looking for carefully 
selected bolt-on acquisitions to introduce 
new growth opportunities.
% of Group revenue
30%
2014 2013
Revenue £91.4m £93.2m
Adjusted operating 
profit £19.7m £20.9m
Adjusted operating 
margin 21.6% 22.4%
Free cash flow £14.9m £14.1m
• Underlying Sector revenue growth 
of 9%
• In DHG Canada, strong consumable 
revenues offset weaker capital 
equipment and service revenues
• ERP project well advanced – 
Somagen completed, Vantage in 
process and AMT to follow in 2015
• DHG Australia building critical 
mass under single leadership and 
with consolidated operations; 
Chemzyme acquired and integrated
• Acquisition of TPD after year end 
extends DHG into Ireland and the UK 
and adds new products and suppliers
• Strong growth in Environmental 
businesses with stable operating 
margins
Life Sciences
Performance in the year
Reported revenues of the Life Sciences 
businesses decreased by 2% because of 
the translational currency impact from 
the significant weakening in the Canadian 
and Australian dollars relative to UK sterling. 
On a constant currency basis, underlying 
revenues increased by 9%. Similarly on 
a reported basis, adjusted operating 
profit decreased by 6% in UK sterling 
terms, but increased by 8% on a constant 
currency basis. 16 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report
Chief Executive's Review continued
Seals
% of Group revenue
39%
2014 2013
Revenue £119.8m £106.1m
Adjusted operating 
profit £21.7m £19.5m
Adjusted operating 
margin 18.1% 18.4%
Free cash flow £16.4m £15.9m
Performance in the year
The Seals businesses increased revenues by 
13%, which included part year contributions 
from Kentek, acquired in January 2014, 
and two smaller bolt-on acquisitions in 
the UK. After adjusting for the additional 
contribution from these acquisitions and 
for the impact from currency translation, 
underlying revenues increased by 7%. The 
acquisition of Kentek and the continued 
development of the FPE Seals and M Seals 
businesses, through organic growth and 
bolt-on acquisitions, have increased the 
European region’s share of total Seals 
revenues to ca.25% in 2014. 
Across the Seals businesses, gross margins 
continued to be resilient, underpinned by 
essential product availability and added 
value technical service. Operating margins 
in the HFPG and FPE Seals businesses 
improved as they benefited from prior 
year investment in people, facilities and 
equipment. However, with Kentek joining 
the Group with lower initial operating 
margins, adjusted operating margins 
reduced by 30bps to 18.1%. 
Free cash flow increased by £0.5m to 
£16.4m, as capital expenditure decreased, 
but increased working capital reduced the 
contribution from higher operating profits. 
Strategy development
The Aftermarket Seals businesses account 
for ca.60% of Sector revenues and supply 
own-branded sealing products used in a 
broad range of heavy mobile machinery 
applications. The products are generally 
supplied from inventory on a next day 
delivery basis and are typically used in the 
repair and maintenance of equipment after 
it has completed its initial warranty or lease 
term. Our businesses act as a one-stop 
source of replacement components for all 
main brands of machinery and compared 
to the OEM dealer network, offer higher 
levels of customer service and more 
competitive pricing.
In North America, HFPG continues to 
penetrate the market through its superior 
marketing, its relentless sales approach 
and product development to extend the 
product line. HFPG is always looking to 
improve its service to customers and 
during the year, the level of sales processed 
online increased by 26% and now accounts 
for ca.20% of US revenues. Capacity is also 
expanding in the seal machining centres 
which respond to the demand from repair 
shop customers for hard-to-find and 
outsized seals on a 24 hour basis.
Outside North America, the Group 
continues to target an increased global 
footprint for Aftermarket, particularly 
in Europe and Asia Pacific. During the 
year, plans to create a more substantial, 
unified European Aftermarket Seals group 
continued to take shape, centred on FPE 
Seals and with operations in the UK and 
the Netherlands. FPE Seals added AB Seals 
as a bolt-on to its operations in the UK, 
strengthening coverage in the important 
South East region. The Group also acquired 
80% of Kentek, a specialised distributor of 
filters and related products, used in heavy 
mobile machinery and industrial equipment 
applications. Kentek extends the reach of 
the Seals activities into the new markets of 
Finland, Russia and the Baltic States, as well 
as adding filters to the Group’s product line. 
The Industrial OEM businesses account 
for ca.40% of Seals revenues and supply 
seals, O-rings and custom moulded 
and machined parts used in a range 
of specialised industrial equipment. 
The businesses work closely with their 
Industrial OEM customers to specify the 
most appropriate sealing material and 
design for the customer’s application 
and the most suitable seal manufacturer 
from which to source the parts. Once the 
part is designed in to the application, the 
businesses provide the necessary logistical 
and technical support, in most cases for 
the lifetime of the OEM’s product.
The Group’s growth strategy in the 
Industrial OEM Seal sector is to build and 
expand a group of businesses in North 
America and internationally. During 
the year, RT Dygert benefited from its 
investment in new elastomer compounds 
to penetrate new technically demanding 
applications. RT Dygert also acquired the 
remaining 49% in the HPS seal business 
in Seattle. Both All Seals and J Royal saw 
good gains in existing and new market 
segments with the introduction of new 
higher specification products. All Seals also 
benefited from its investment in a water-jet 
gasket cutting machine and in November, 
will open a branch operation in Houston, 
Texas. In Europe, M Seals acquired Ramsay 
Seals, a specialist distributor of O-rings 
which will give M Seals an entry into the 
Industrial OEM seal business in the UK, as 
well as adding strengths in the Aerospace 
and Oil & Gas sectors. 
• Underlying Sector revenue growth 
of 7%
• Good growth in HFPG Aftermarket 
Seals business in North America 
despite disruption from severe 
winter weather
• Unified European Aftermarket Seals 
group taking shape, centred on 
FPE Seals – AB Seals added during 
the year
• Kentek acquisition brings new 
geographic markets and adds 
filter products
• Continuing strong growth in the 
Industrial OEM Seals businesses in 
the US and Europe
• M Seals acquired Ramsay Services in 
the UK and All Seals is opening new 
branch operation in Houston, Texas 17 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report
% of Group revenue
31%
2014 2013
Revenue £94.6m £86.2m
Adjusted operating 
profit £15.3m £13.9m
Adjusted operating 
margin 16.2% 16.1%
Free cash flow £11.4m £10.8m
Controls
• Underlying Sector revenue growth 
of 8%
• Strong growth in Interconnect, 
driven by improved markets in the 
UK and Germany, particularly Civil 
Aerospace, Energy and Motorsport
• Acquisition of SFC strengthened the 
fasteners business and added design 
skills and added-value assembly 
expertise
• Sacee acquisition extended 
Filcon’s business into Satellite 
sector in France
• In Fluid Controls, significant 
gains made by Hawco in Food & 
Beverage sector
• Relocation of Hawco’s offices, 
consolidation of warehouse 
facilities and extension of new 
ERP system into Abbeychart
focus on specialised markets and added 
value opportunities. The benefits from 
investment programmes completed last 
year, enabled the businesses to gain some 
operational leverage which offset the 
impact from the lower initial operating 
margin of SFC.
Free cash flow increased by £0.6m to 
£11.4m, with reduced capital expenditure, 
but with working capital increasing to 
take advantage of opportunities within 
existing markets.
Strategy development
The Interconnect businesses account 
for 70% of Controls revenues and supply 
a range of high performance wiring, 
connectors, harness components, 
fasteners and control devices. These 
products are used in technically demanding 
applications, often in harsh environments, 
in industries including Aerospace, Defence, 
Motorsport, Energy and Medical as well as 
in other specialised Industrial applications. 
The products are generally used in 
refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance 
programmes for equipment in service and 
are supplied to major new build programmes 
only where smaller quantities are required 
from stock. The businesses act as a single 
source for a wide range of products, have 
strong technical knowledge to specify 
products for customer applications and 
offer ex-stock availability and a full range 
of added value services.
A key element of the growth strategy within 
Interconnect is to broaden the range of 
high performance products and added 
value services offered. As part of this 
strategy, a grouping of specialty fastener 
businesses is being built and this group 
was strengthened through the acquisition 
of SFC, a UK based distributor of fasteners 
and ancillary products to the Aerospace, 
Industrial and Motorsport sectors. SFC 
has a strong fit with Clarendon and brings 
specialist technical and design skills as well 
as added value assembly expertise. As the 
group’s supply of fasteners to the premium 
aircraft seating industry continues to grow 
strongly, Clarendon is extending production 
line-side support to key customers and 
exploiting further opportunities to export to 
sub-contract manufacturers.
Another important element of the growth 
strategy is to further penetrate specialised 
market sectors in Europe. During the 
year, Filcon acquired the goodwill and 
assets of Sacee, a supplier of specialist 
Performance in the year
The Controls businesses increased 
revenues by 10%, including part year 
contributions from SFC, a specialty fastener 
company acquired in June 2014 and Sacee, 
a small connector distributor acquired 
in October 2013. After adjusting for the 
contribution from these acquisitions and 
for the impact of currency translation, 
underlying revenues increased by 8%. 
Adjusted operating profits increased by 
10% to £15.3m and adjusted operating 
margins were held steady at 16.2%. 
Overall gross margins in the Controls 
businesses remained resilient with their 
connectors to the Satellite sector in France; 
Sacee’s operations have been successfully 
integrated into Filcon in Munich. In the 
Energy market, following its acquisition 
of Rayquick in late 2012, IS-Sommer was 
appointed by its key energy products 
supplier as one of only two master 
distributors in Germany.
The Fluid Controls businesses account 
for 30% of revenues and supply a 
range of fluid control products used 
broadly across the Food and Beverage 
industry. Products are used in a range 
of applications including food retailing 
and transportation, catering equipment, 
vending machines, coffee brewing, pure 
water and water cooling systems.
Hawco has had to respond to significant 
structural changes in its markets and now 
is seeing the benefits of its repositioning 
and developmental activities. The trend 
away from major out-of-town food retail 
stores and towards convenience stores 
initially dampened demand for Hawco’s 
equipment, but Hawco is now having good 
success in both the UK and Europe with its 
range of scroll compressors which offer 
a smaller footprint and greater efficiency. 
Hawco is also seeing growing demand 
for refrigeration units used in transport 
applications reflecting the increased use 
of home shopping and delivery. Sales 
into the Brewery sector have also been 
buoyed by the introduction of the scroll 
compressors and other improved products 
designed to provide “at source” cooling for 
smaller outlets such as cafes and bars. The 
Abbeychart business model and resources 
applied to the coffee and catering segments 
are also being reshaped to match changes 
in end-user tastes and to focus on growth 
segments where technical expertise can 
add value. During the year, Hawco’s offices 
were relocated, warehouse facilities were 
consolidated and the new Hawco ERP 
system was extended into Abbeychart. 
Geographically, the Controls businesses 
are still very concentrated in Northern 
Europe and in particular in the UK and 
Germany, where ca.80% of revenues 
are generated. The Group continues to 
look for new growth opportunities to 
expand into other geographic territories 
outside of Northern Europe, most likely 
through acquisitions which share the same 
specialised business model and stable 
financial characteristics.
