 06	 DSG 	 international	 plc
Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2007/08
Chief	 Executive’s	 Statement
John Browett
Chief Executive
An	 unbeatable	 combination	 of	 value,	 choice	 and	 service
My first priority when I joined the business was to 
really understand what our customers want.  It is only 
by using the voice of the customers in everything  
we do that we will succeed.  From an outside 
perspective, we should be making good returns for 
shareholders and growing our profits, because we 
have market leading positions with great brands  
in a number of the most important markets across 
Europe.  However, this is not the case.  Despite all  
the advantages of being a market leader, only some 
of our businesses performed to a good standard  
last year.  
Elkjøp continues to lead across the Nordic  
markets.  We are building on a very strong position  
in Greece.  Our pure online businesses PIXmania  
and Dixons.co.uk in combination grew 27% year on 
year.  But in the UK, PC World’s profits were down 
significantly, and although Currys performed relatively 
well in a difficult market, we are not satisfied with the 
results.  In Italy, the tough consumer environment 
compounded our poor execution.
When we talked to customers, we found the reason 
they are not always shopping from our stores and 
websites is that we have not kept pace with their needs.  
As we listened to customers they were very clear on 
what they wanted: they want better service, improved 
choice, contemporary stores and new services.
Now, of course, we are in a tough economic 
environment.  To afford this much better customer 
offer we need to reduce costs and simplify the 
business from top to bottom.  We know we are  
not operating as efficiently as we could and should 
be.  So we are making our processes better for 
customers, easier for staff and therefore cheaper  
to operate.
On 15 May 2008, we announced details of a five  
point plan for the renewal and transformation of  
our business.
The heart of the plan is to give customers an 
unbeatable combination of value, choice and service.
These are the main points of the plan, which is 
already under way.   	 	 DSG	 international	 plc	 07
Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2007/08
Key	 actions	 in	 progress:
>	New 	 format	 PC	 World	 stores	 now	 operational,	 to	 be	 followed	 by	 trial	 stores	 for	 Currys	 and	 Currys.digital
>	Strong 	 sales	 in	 first	 50,000	 ft
2
	 large	 store	 format	 in	 Oslo.		 Format	 being	 rolled	 out	 across	 Nordics
>	Large 	 format	 store	 to	 open	 in	 the	 UK
>	All 	 ranges	 reviewed	 with	 wider	 and	 better	 choices	 being	 offered
>	New 	 store	 colleague	 incentive	 scheme	 trialled	 in	 the	 UK
>	Roll 	 out	 of	 new	 five	 step	 selling	 process	 to	 improve	 customer	 service
>	UK 	 wide	 training	 of	 colleagues	 	 with	 greater	 emphasis	 on	 service,	 connectivity,	 delivery,	 installation	 and	 repair	 in	 a	 world	 of	 converging	 technology
>	Roll 	 out	 of	 Get	 Connected	 programme	 in	 PC	 World	 to	 provide	 subscription	 services	 to	 customers
>	Detailed 	 turnaround	 plan	 	 and	 decisive	 steps	 from	 new	 management	 team	 in	 UniEuro
>	Actions 	 to	 reduce	 costs	 in	 the	 	 head	 office,	 supply	 chain	 and	 operations	 to	 free	 up	 resource	 	 to	 invest	 in	 customers
Renewal	 and	 Transformation	 plan
1.		 Focus	 on	 the	 customer
Every part of the plan hinges on knowing and acting 
on what customers want.  
Historically, the Group’s focus was on product and 
price, but this isn’t the full story.  Now we must move 
to providing value, choice and service.
This means our stores and sites should be easier  
and more exciting places to shop, better able to  
give customers what they want, when they want it.  
Customers want us to offer them the know-how to 
choose and use technology with confidence; to make 
things work and keep them working.
To make sure we’re helping customers choose a 
complete solution, with the right product or service 
and everything else they need, we’re improving 
training and incentives for all store colleagues.  We 
expect that 24,000 store colleagues in the UK will  
be trained in time for Christmas 2008.  We’re also 
improving our after sales services through delivery, 
installation, help and support.
2.		 Focus	 the	 portfolio	 on	 winning	 positions
Our immediate focus is on the potential of our strong 
market leading retail operations in the UK & Ireland, 
the Nordics, Greece and over the internet.
Our businesses in the Nordics and Greece 
successfully serve customers and here we will be 
consolidating our market position and further 
improving the customer offer.  In the UK, Currys, 
Currys.digital and PC World are being reinvigorated 
as we make a fundamental shift in the way these 
businesses are run.  
Operations in Italy require a significant turnaround 
and the new management team there have made 
good progress in identifying the issues and actions 
that need to be addressed.
In Spain and Central Europe we are not yet in a strong 
enough position to serve our customers well over  
the long term.  We are reviewing the businesses to 
strengthen their competitiveness.
Group	 Overview
Business	 and	 Financial	 Review
Corporate	 Responsibility	 Review
Directors	 and	 Management Governance
Consolidated	 Financial	 Statements
Parent	 Company	 Financial	 Statements
Shareholder	 Information 08	 DSG 	 international	 plc
Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2007/08
Chief	 Executive’s	 Statement
continued
3.		 Transform	 the	 business
Our initial focus for Renewal and Transformation will 
be in the UK and Italy where there is the greatest 
potential to serve customers better and improve value 
for shareholders.  The ranges in each category are 
being improved to deliver greater and clearer choices 
of good, better and best products at great prices.  
Store formats are being improved to provide easier 
navigation, improved display and greater interactivity 
with products for customers.  Trials will be in place  
for Christmas 2008, with intended roll out across  
the UK businesses thereafter.  These formats include 
reallocation of space to provide the right mix of 
products that customers want from the stores as  
well as increasing overall densities.  
PC World is being reinvigorated as the destination for 
computing and new technology digital products and 
services.  A new store format has been developed 
and is currently being trialled with plans to refit at 
least 10% of the stores in the portfolio in time for 
Christmas 2008.  In the new format, aisles have  
been straightened to ease navigation, and products 
are displayed to make it easier for customers to 
experience their features and benefits.  
Currys is reinvigorating its position as the destination 
for electrical products for everyone by offering an 
unbeatable range of products and services at great 
prices.  A new store format has been developed with 
several stores to be trialled through Christmas 2008.
Currys.digital is focusing on becoming the High 
Street destination for the latest portable technology.  
White goods, small kitchen appliances and personal 
care products are being replaced by a greater range 
of laptops, televisions and other digital products and 
a much greater depth of accessories.  While the 
majority of the 177 Currys.digital stores make a 
positive contribution to the Group there are up to 100 
stores in attractive catchments that will most likely be 
the focus for future trading.  The remaining stores will 
be closed as their leases expire.  The average high 
street lease has 4–5 years to run to expiry.
Stores are being improved to provide greater interactivity with products 
for customers.
We will offer clear choices of good, better and best products. 	 	 DSG	 international	 plc	 09
Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2007/08
In Italy, the new management team have identified the 
key issues and started work on a detailed turnaround 
plan.  We have already announced a rationalisation  
of the portfolio with the planned closure of up to 43 
stores that were uneconomic or poorly located.   
They are also improving marketing effectiveness  
and improving in-store product availability.
PC City in Italy and Sweden will be integrated into the 
operations of UniEuro and Elkjøp respectively.  In 
Italy, stand alone PC City stores will be closed as part 
of the store rationalisation plan.  A trial of a PC City 
store within a large UniEuro store has been opened 
and initial results are encouraging.  Further trials will 
be undertaken during the year.
4.		 Win	 on	 the	 internet
We are already the leading electrical retailer on  
the internet in Europe with over £1 billion of sales 
achieved in the year.  The internet market is likely to 
grow to around 30% of the electricals market over the 
next few years, through a combination of pure-play 
and multi-channel.  PIXmania’s market leading 
operating platform will be implemented in all our 
internet sites.  In addition PIXmania will be integrated 
into the logistics infrastructure of the Group.
Customers continue to favour trusted brands and the 
convenience of the store proposition combined with 
the immediacy of collecting products ordered over 
the internet in store.  We expect that multi-channel 
will continue to comprise at least a half of our total 
internet sales going forward.  A large proportion of 
this is likely to be reserved online for collection at 
store.  We will be making further enhancements to 
our reserve&collect facilities in the UK, Nordics and 
Greece over the new financial year.
5.		 Reduce	 costs
We are working to make our business processes 
better for customers, easier for staff and therefore 
cheaper to operate.  Our existing One Group 
programme is establishing a common operating 
model for the Group and will consequently reduce 
costs significantly.  The programme is designed to 
simplify business processes, improve systems and 
decision making.  One set of business processes  
will make it easier to improve operations more quickly 
across the Group.
In addition, a Step Change programme is expected to 
remove £50 million of costs in the new financial year.  
Initial focus will be on removing duplication and 
creating efficient structures in our head office, supply 
chain and in stock management.  Savings will largely 
be reinvested back into the stores to enable us to 
deliver a better service to our customers.
Although the economic backdrop continues to be 
difficult, and we remain cautious about consumer 
confidence in many of our markets, we can 
significantly improve performance for customers, 
staff and shareholders by implementing our plans 
quickly and effectively.  There’s a lot we can achieve.  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our 
employees for their commitment and enthusiasm, 
and our shareholders for their ongoing support.  
John	 Browett
Chief	 Executive
Corporate	 Responsibility	 Review
Directors	 and	 Management Governance
Consolidated	 Financial	 Statements
Parent	 Company	 Financial	 Statements
Shareholder	 Information Group	 Overview
Business	 and	 Financial	 Review
