 04	 DSG 	 international	 plc
Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2007/08
Chairman’s	 Statement
Customer	 focus	 is	 imperative
Sir	 John	 Collins
Chairman
Trading conditions in most countries in Europe 
became increasingly challenging through the year, 
and prospects in the short term declined.
Despite many business strengths and a good  
track record, the Group has not kept pace with the 
changing needs of its customers.  As a result, the 
shopping experience in the UK was not a match for 
the best of our competitors or the pressure from the 
internet and mass merchants on pricing.
Your Board appointed John Browett, a skilled retailer 
with a passion for the customer and enormous 
energy, to lead the Group forward and address these 
challenges.  Under his leadership we will capitalise on 
our strengths in price and range by delivering a top 
class shopping experience offering value, choice and 
service.  His experience of the internet will also be 
invaluable in guiding our e-commerce businesses of 
PIXmania.com and Dixons.co.uk to become a key 
component of the Group.
John Browett has announced a radical plan to turn 
around the financial performance of the Group.   
He will firmly establish your Group as a specialist 
electrical retailer.  A very thorough analysis of our 
customers has led to a redefinition of priorities and  
an understanding of exactly what the customer  
wants from us.  Plans are well advanced to trial new 
formats, expand the range and retrain staff to provide 
the standard of service required.  The TechGuys  
will provide advice and practical support in the  
home or in store.  The internet offers a major growth 
opportunity and PIXmania.com and Dixons.co.uk are 
positioning themselves to be leaders on internet sales 
throughout Europe.  
Simplicity and efficiency in supporting services to the 
stores are a key feature of John’s plan and investment 
is being made in providing technology support for the 
processes needed.  Through simplifying processes we 
can also refocus around £50 million of central costs into 
our stores to improve the experience of customers.
The importance in recovering earnings and the reality 
of a difficult market ahead means we will have to  
find methods to put all of our countries in a position  
to compete effectively and deliver better value  
for shareholders.
Your Board is totally committed to these changes  
and in supporting John Browett and his team.   
He has recruited a number of senior specialists  
who will strengthen management. 	 	 DSG	 international	 plc	 05
Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 2007/08
>	Simplicity 	 and	 efficiency
>	Deliver 	 better	 value
>	Trial 	 new	 formats
>	Expand 	 the	 range
In a year of transition our priority has been to support 
a thorough examination of every part of our business, 
whilst trading in increasingly testing conditions.   
The Italian businesses, UniEuro and PC City, have 
demanded considerable attention as losses and 
consequent asset write downs have been material  
to the Group.  It is a difficult market but we have not 
done justice to ourselves and some fundamental 
retailing mistakes have been made.  However, we 
have built an excellent management team who have 
developed a recovery plan approved by the Board.
Remuneration in terms of performance related pay  
is being adapted to offer appropriate rewards for 
success and the incentive to change.  However, it will 
take time to reinvigorate our business and the cultural 
change needed should not be underestimated.  
I thank everyone involved in volunteering or 
fundraising for our Switched on Communities 
partners.  The DSG international Foundation, through 
its support for Switched on Communities and 
specifically the four charities that are beneficiaries, 
has spent the money well and made a real difference 
to many people.  
It has been a demanding and difficult year for all  
of us and the decline in our share price and market 
capitalisation has placed a great responsibility on the 
Board to deliver recovery.  Our colleagues have, as 
always, shown strong commitment and recognised 
the need for radical change.  My thanks go to every 
one of my colleagues across the Group.
Sir	 John	 Collins
Chairman
Directors	 and	 Management Governance
Consolidated	 Financial	 Statements
Parent	 Company	 Financial	 Statements
Shareholder	 Information Group	 Overview
Business	 and	 Financial	 Review
Corporate	 Responsibility	 Review
