 Directors’ Report: Business Overview
Group at a Glance
The UK and Ireland’s biggest specialist
electricals chain, combining Currys
Megastores and Superstores and
Currys.digital on the high street. Dixons
Travel stores are based at UK airports
and the Eurotunnel terminal.
Ireland operates as Currys and 
PC World.
Currys opened its flagship 55,000 sq ft Megastore and refitted a number 
of Superstores and Currys.digital stores. It also launched further services 
for customers including next-day delivery and market leading three-hour
timed delivery slots.
During the year, Dixons Tax Free rebranded as Dixons Travel and new 
format stores were introduced, including a first PC World airport store 
at Heathrow, Terminal 5.
Description Our brands Highlights
PC World is the UK’s biggest chain of
computing superstores. DSGi Business
is the specialist provider of business 
IT solutions comprising PC World
Business, Equanet, MacWarehouse 
and Microwarehouse. The TechGuys 
are the UK’s largest national digital
support service for customers in-store
and in their homes.
PC World unveiled its new store concept which helps customers get 
the most out of their shopping trip with numerous ‘experience zones’ 
to try out hundreds of products throughout the store. ‘Get Connected’, 
a market-beating mobile broadband proposition was launched, offering the
biggest range of subsidised or free laptops and netbooks. Improvements 
are being made to The TechGuys operations to provide improved choices
and services for customers.
Elkjøp is the leading electrical retailer
across the Nordics.
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores operate in
Norway, El Giganten stores operate 
in Sweden and Denmark and Gigantti
stores operate in Finland. 
At the start of the year, Elkjøp opened a new Megastore in Lørenskog 
in Norway. Offering customers significantly increased ranges, it has had 
a strong first year’s trading with positive customer feedback. A further 
two Megastores have been opened in the Nordics during the year.
Greece’s leading electrical retailer
operates as Kotsovolos and 
Electro World. Electro World 
stores also operate in Turkey.
In Italy, we operate UniEuro electrical
stores, some with PC City ‘stores-
in-stores’. PC City also operates 
in Spain.
Greece grew market share in a challenging market and Turkey performed 
in line with expectations. The turnaround plan in Italy is showing progress
with encouraging signs in a difficult economic environment. A store closure
programme concluded ahead of schedule, and management have made
significant improvements in a number of areas, including stock levels,
availability and margins. In Spain, a plan to reduce costs, manage stocks 
and preserve cash has been implemented.
Electro World stores operate in the
Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia.
Operations in the Czech Republic continue to perform well despite the weak
environment. The Group’s first stores in Slovakia have performed in line with
expectations. In May, the Group announced it had sold the operations of
Electro World Hungary, confirming at the same time that Poland remains
under strategic review.
PIXmania.com is a pan-European 
online electrical retailer.
Dixons.co.uk is one of the leading 
UK electrical e-tailers.
PIXmania performed well in most of its key markets, although sales growth
was impacted by the slowing consumer environment, and sales in the UK
were held back by the strength of the euro.
Dixons.co.uk continues to improve its consumer proposition which will be
bolstered further when it transitions to the PIXmania e-merchant platform.
6 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008/09
UK & Ireland Electricals
UK & Ireland
UK Computing
Nordics
Southern Europe
Other International
Central Europe
e-commerce
Underlying sales by division
■ UK & Ireland £4,228.6m
■ Nordics £1,625.2m
■ Other International £1,565.8m
■ e-commerce £807.4m DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008/09 7
2,657.8 551 5,317 9,650
22,978
1,570.8 161 2,545 15,807
1,625.2 247 3,562 14,421 5,966
1,405.4 325 4,593 14,132 6,802
160.4 29 755 26,034 1,358
807.4 – – – 1,213
www.currys.co.uk
www.pcworld.co.uk
www.pcwb.co.uk
www.thetechguys.com
www.elkjop.no
www.elgiganten.se
www.elgiganten.dk
www.gigantti.fi
www.lefdal.com
www.kotsovolos.gr
www.unieuro.it
www.pccity.es
www.electroworld.gr
www.electroworld.cz
www.electroworld.pl
www.pixmania.com
www.dixons.co.uk
Average selling
Website Underlying sales Stores Selling space area per store Employees
£million ’000 sq ft sq ft
Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
Countries we operate in
Stores and online presence
Online presence only
Stores only
