 Chairman’ s Statement
Extraordinary times call for extraordinary effort, initiative 
and resilience. These qualities have been delivered by 
John Browett and his executive in the financial year 2008/09.
After settling into the Company I asked John Browett 
whether he could see a way of returning DSGi to greatness.
He replied: “Yes, I can, providing we don’t find ourselves in a
deep recession.” “Don’t worry” I assured him, “there could be
some cyclical downturn in the economy but I don’t see why 
it should be more than that.” The Chairman’s crystal ball had
clearly ceased to function!
John Browett has led his team in the design of the ‘Renewal
and Transformation plan’ for the Group which provides a practical
template for improvement in virtually every aspect of our
business, with one overriding priority – serving the customer
better. The extent to which we have undergone change in top
management and are now doing so in store design, layout and
processes, internet operations, buying, distribution, systems
and reward is radical if not revolutionary. It is being done with
a very high level of support and commitment from employees
across Europe who believe it is the right thing to do. The
positive aspect of a severe economic downturn is not only
that it fosters the strengths associated with survival, but also
that any ‘blockers’ to improving performance are swept away.
The importance of completing all these changes and, in
particular, rolling out our new store formats with a more
customer-focused business model, coupled with the Group’s
reduced earnings, called for refinancing. The success of our
recent Placing and Rights Issue together with renewed credit
facilities from our banks calls for me to thank our shareholders
and banks for their faith in what we are doing. My thanks also
to our advisers, whose support was excellent.
Your Board is ever conscious of the need to recover the share
price and in due course, when affordable, reinstate a dividend.
The reduction in our market capitalisation in the past year was
painful and demanded the actions we are sharing with you in
this report. Economic recovery is unlikely in the short term and
therefore we cannot promise immediate earnings improvement.
We have found an extremely able Chief Executive whose retail
skills are exactly what is needed for today’s environment. He 
is well on the way to building the team needed to execute our
plan and our determination to serve the customer better 
is at the core of everything we are doing, in our stores, on 
our websites, and in our infrastructure and back office. Our
intention is that the changes which we are making will improve
DSGi’s competitiveness during the downturn and put the
Group in a stronger position to benefit from recovery in the
future. Your Board believes that technological innovation and
new product development in electronics and computing, together
with the replacement cycle in white goods, will continue to
make this a sector with attractive long term prospects.
The DSG Foundation support for the Switched on Communities
programme came to an end this year and I wish the four
charities supported through that programme the very best 
for the future. The Foundation’s focus going forward will be 
in supporting the fundraising efforts of our colleagues in 
stores in engaging with their local communities.
Nicholas Cadbury, who was appointed Finance Director 
on 14 August 2008, and the Finance team have done an
outstanding job in leading the refinancing of the Group. 
A very special thank you goes to Nicholas and his team 
as it does to Helen Grantham and her legal team.
We are delighted that John Allan has agreed to be our
Chairman and we give him a very warm welcome. I have 
every confidence that John has the skills and experience
needed at Board level to ensure the successful completion 
of the Renewal and Transformation plan.
Our thanks go to Count Emmanuel d’André who has served
us well as a non-executive director. His retail experience and
knowledge of Continental Europe has been of particular value,
as well as being an excellent colleague. He will retire at the AGM.
I wish you all well.
Sir John Collins
Chairman
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008/09 9
Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
Well placed to deliver
the Renewal and
Transformation plan
Sir John Collins
John Allan and Sir John Collins
