 We are two years into an intense period of work and progress
under our Renewal and Transformation plan. We have made
significant changes to the business. This year we really started
to see the benefits. With the customer at the heart of everything
we do, we are offering an unbeatable combination of value,
choice and service.
For clarity on our goals for customers, we have established the
core purpose of the Group as ‘bringing life to technology’. The
simple principle is to make technology exciting and accessible
for our customers, helping them to choose the right product 
for their needs and then to get the most out of it once they get
home. In order to deliver on our core purpose and to constantly
focus the business and our colleagues on the customer we
have developed our ‘Customer Plan’. Under each customer
promise there lies a detailed programme of work to assist in the
delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan and achieve
our target of an EBIT return on sales of 3%-4%. I would like to
share with you some of the great work we are doing under each
element of the Customer Plan.
They’re interested in working out what’s right for me
We must give every customer trusted and great advice whenever
they come into our stores. Our colleague training programme
called FIVES gives our people good product knowledge and
skills. Our selling service is broken down into five parts so that
we understand a customer’s needs, match the appropriate
product to those needs and also help the customer understand
the features and benefits to ensure they get the most out of their
product. All our colleagues in the UK have already been through
FIVES training and many are now going through additional
programmes to reinforce our approach.
We have also improved our product training, often with the
support of manufacturers. We have new methods to help our
colleagues understand the products in our stores and to ensure
they can provide detailed information to our customers.
Our colleagues in the Nordics are already well versed in these
principles. Customers are increasingly recognising the great
experience they get in our stores across the region and are
rewarding us with greater market share and higher profitability 
in our Elkjøp Group. We will be developing these colleague
training programmes across all our Continental European
operations to share best practice in customer engagement.
We will also be improving the information available to stores 
to ensure they can better match colleague rostering with
customer footfall.
It’s an exciting place to be
We have now transformed over 200 stores across the Group.
The new formats provide a layout that is easier to shop, more
contemporary in look and feel as well as enabling customers 
to try products before they buy through the use of improved
shop fittings, such as playtables. Also, by improving ranges and
working with suppliers we can make our shops more appealing
and showcase technology that makes a difference.
This year we carried out a detailed analysis of our store portfolio
in the UK to determine the ideal footprint of stores that will best
serve customers’ needs. This is a combination of High Street
stores, Megastores and combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World
Superstores. Our long term goal is to get to 500 stores in the
UK with up to 70 Megastores, 330 Superstores, the majority 
of which will be combined 2-in-1 stores, and up to 100 High
Street stores. Our Megastores create a real destination for our
customers where they can experience the widest range of
electrical products under one roof. Our combined 2-in-1 Currys
& PC World Superstores bring the expertise of PC World to
more locations alongside the strength of the Currys brand in
consumer electrical and white goods.
Outside the UK, we are also reformatting stores using the same
principles as we have developed for Currys and PC World as
well as trialling and rolling out Megastores.
16 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement
T o provide an unbeatable combination of
value, choice and service, we have put the
customer at the heart of everything we do.
John Browett Chief Executive Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 17
We have also improved our websites in the UK using PIXmania’s
market leading e-merchant platform. Our customers on the web
now have better product information, improved navigation and
easier screen layouts making it easier for customers to find the
products they are after.
It’s easy to shop
Our new store layout and improved websites make it easier 
than ever before for our customers to choose the right product.
We are improving signage and ticketing information to help
customers better understand the features and benefits of the
products. We are also introducing ‘customer journeys’ to ensure
customers have all they need to get the most out of their products
when they get them home.
Our reserve&collect facility, that allows customers to browse
and choose products on our websites and then reserve for
collection from a convenient store, continues to be popular and
this demonstrates how across all our platforms we aim to make
it an easy shopping trip for customers.
Business Overview
Colleagues
They’re
interested in 
working out 
what’s right 
for me
Problems
They deal
with queries
and complaints 
brilliantly
Post Purchase
They make
things work
and keep
them working
Customer
Plan
Value
The prices 
are good
Products
I can get
what I want
when I want it
Stores
It’s easy
to shop
Stores
It’s an exciting 
place to be 18 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
I can get what I want when I want it
We have improved ranges to ensure we have the best product
in stock for customers’ needs. We are constantly listening to
and learning from our customers to help us develop ranges
further. Of course, we need to ensure that the product is always
available and so we have improved our logistics infrastructure to
reduce complexity and increase availability. True availability is at
record levels. This work has also enabled us to hold more stock
in the centre to ensure the products are always in the right place
for the customer, as well as enabling us to increase the turnover
of our stock, improving working capital. We have made significant
progress, but we will be making further improvements in the
year ahead.
We have introduced choices on delivery for customers which
range from next day three hour timed delivery slots, to free
delivery, to even a ‘follow-me-home’ service at our Megastores.
Our services team have done a fantastic job of making sure 
we get it right first time for customers, and if there is an issue,
resolving it quickly to ensure the customer gets their product
when we say they will. We have introduced data and processes
to ensure customers are informed of when we are on the way to
them to help them plan their day around the expected delivery.
As a result, we are achieving a 99.8% success rate on first or
second delivery. We will continuously strive to improve this, but
we now operate the UK’s leading home delivery and installation
service for electricals.
The prices are good
As the market leader in many of our markets, we are able 
to leverage our international presence and size to allow us 
to offer our customers great deals at great prices every day. 
We constantly monitor prices in our markets and on the internet 
to ensure we are always one step ahead of our competitors.
The DSGi brands must be famous for value and we will
continuously improve the prices we offer customers. All this 
is backed up by our market leading price promise to refund
110% of the difference if a customer finds the same product
cheaper elsewhere.
They make things work and keep them working
Our TechGuys are available to help our customers get their
products working and keep them working. From in-store advice
to installation and set-up at home, from telephone and internet
advice to repair, we are committed to helping our customers
with issues and problems they encounter with the electrical
products they use. This year we have built a state of the art
facility in Newark for TV and laptop repairs. Consequently, 
we have significantly improved the service we can offer while
reducing costs. For example, we have now reduced the repair
time for TVs to less than six days.
We have introduced practices and processes to keep
customers informed of deliveries and repairs and our Premier
Club support agreement even provides customers with a loan
TV or laptop while it is away for repair.
The scale at which we operate in this area gives us a unique
competitive advantage. Our customers can trust us to provide
them with expertise and help with whatever challenge they face.
It also enhances the trust and brand perception of Currys and
PC World.
Outside of the UK, the repair and service functions operate
differently market by market. However, we will, over time, 
use the learnings from the UK across the rest of Europe.
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Working with suppliers
our new store formats
are great places to
showcase the latest
technology. Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 19
They deal with queries and complaints brilliantly
This year we made the decision to bring our call centre back 
in house. As a result, we now own the contact with customers
when they have a problem or query. We have made the
processes simpler. Through using root cause analysis of why
customers are contacting us, we are reducing the need for
them to do so. When a customer does have an issue we are
empowering our colleagues to take ownership of the issue 
to achieve a swift and satisfactory resolution.
The majority of the work we are doing under the Customer 
Plan has been focused on the UK where we see the greatest
opportunity to improve the business and profitability for the
benefit of not just our customers but also for our shareholders.
While we are improving the stores in our operations across 
the Group we also see opportunities for many elements of the
Customer Plan to be used right across the Group. Our businesses
outside the UK also have many practices that we can bring to
the UK. Our aim is to share these across the Group so we can
be best in class in all our businesses. 
We have made a significant amount of change, particularly in
the last year, and I am pleased to say that our customers are
starting to notice. Satisfaction measures from our mystery
shops and exit interviews in the UK are rising and, for the first
time, we now have over 80% of our customers scoring us as
being ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with their experience. This 
is a significant improvement on where the business has been
historically, but we still have more to do. I am also pleased to
see that our advocacy is improving with a 80% increase in
customers who are now very likely to recommend our stores 
to their friends and family.
Outlook
The economic backdrop across Europe has remained
challenging throughout the year. We expect these conditions 
to continue throughout the coming year in many of our markets,
particularly in the UK where consumer spending will come under
pressure from fiscal tightening. We are well prepared for this
environment and continue to focus on improving the offer for
customers while managing costs, margins, stock turn and cash
flow. Consequently, given the Renewal and Transformation plan,
Group profitability will continue to improve. 
Despite all the economic uncertainties the customer remains 
at the heart of all that we do.
John Browett
Chief Executive
The new combined
Currys & PC World 
2-in-1 stores provide
customers with the
range, expertise 
and authority of 
both brands in one
convenient location.
Business Overview
