 12 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Group at a Glance
UK & Ireland Nordics Other International e-commerce
Our brands Description Highlights
Currys is the UK’s largest specialist 
electrical retailer.
PC World is the UK and Ireland’s biggest
specialist computing retailer. 
We operate from High Street stores, Superstores
and Megastores. Currently most of our stores
operate under one brand. We are opening
combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World stores,
bringing the benefits of both brands in one
convenient location to our customers.
Dixons Travel stores are based at airports and 
the Eurotunnel terminal.
TechGuys is the UK’s leading help and support
service for electrical and computing products.
The UK & Ireland operations are the focus of the most significant
changes under the Renewal and Transformation plan. 156 stores
had been transformed by the end of the financial year, 12 of 
which are Megastores under the Currys and combined Currys 
& PC World formats.
The multichannel offering provides customers with the convenience
of online and accessibility of stores, particularly through the
reserve&collect facility.
Improvements are being made to the services we offer to
customers with a wider range, including online storage, installation
and repair. We now offer the UK’s leading delivery and installation
operation with options ranging from next day delivery in three hour
time slots to free delivery, as well as a free recycling option.
Dixons Travel is expanding its brand overseas with operations now open
in Rome airport and is identifying further opportunities across Europe.
Elkjøp is the leading specialist electrical retailer
across the Nordics.
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores operate in Norway,
El Giganten in Sweden and Denmark and
Gigantti in Finland.
Elkjøp is famous for customer service with an efficient centralised
operation. It has been able to leverage its leading market positions
across the Nordics and grow market share during the year.
It is reformatting all its stores as well as rolling out Megastores
across its markets with 16 now open.
Kotsovolos is Greece’s leading specialist
electrical retailer.
In Italy, we operate UniEuro electrical stores 
with some as combined 2-in-1 UniEuro & 
PC City stores.
In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we operate
under the Electro World brand.
In Spain, PC City is the leading specialist
computing retailer.
In Turkey, we operate the Electro World brand
with a local joint venture partner.
Kotsovolos, with its strong market position, has been improving 
the offer for customers while controlling costs and stock in a difficult
economic environment.
The turnaround of the operations in Italy has made significant
progress with an improved store portfolio, better stock availability
and an improving sales and margin performance.
The operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia have been
streamlined and are now well positioned to exploit a recovery 
in consumer demand in those markets.
The operations in Turkey continue to go from strength to strength. 
It has now launched a franchise operation to provide an additional
opportunity for growth in that market. 
PIXmania is a pan-European electrical e-tailer
operating in 26 countries.
Dixons.co.uk is one of the leading UK electrical
e-tailers.
PIXmania has been growing its market positions across Europe
while leveraging the benefits of being part of the DSGi Group.
Dixons.co.uk was relaunched on the PIXmania e-merchant platform
during the year enabling it to offer customers an improved online
shopping experience.
Underlying sales by division
■ UK & Ireland £4,013.5m
■ Nordics £2,093.7m
■ Other International £1,503.2m
■ e-commerce £921.2m Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 13
Websites
Underlying sales
£million Stores
Selling space
’000 sq ft
Average selling 
area per store
sq ft Employees
www.currys.co.uk
www.pcworld.co.uk
www.pcwb.co.uk
www.techguys.co.uk
4,013.5 683 7,889 11,551 22,323
www.elkjop.no
www.elgiganten.se
www.elgiganten.dk
www.gigantti.fi
www.lefdal.com
2,093.7 269 4,061 15,097
www.kotsovolos.gr
www.unieuro.it
www.pccity.es
www.electroworld.cz
www.electroworld.gr
1,503.2 323 4,719 14,610
www.pixmania.com
www.dixons.co.uk
921.2 – – –
7,296
7,573
1,413
Countries we operate in
■ Stores and online presence
■ Online presence only
Stores only
Business Overview
