 Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 15
I was delighted to be appointed your new Chairman in
September 2009 and am pleased to report an excellent year 
of progress. The changes we are making to the business make
shopping at our stores a much simpler and more enjoyable
experience. We have also made significant improvements 
to our service offering before, during and after the point of
purchase. These changes will enable us to offer a truly market
leading value, choice and service proposition for our customers.
The economic environment in all our markets has been
challenging throughout the year. However, it is encouraging to
see all the work under the Renewal and Transformation plan
starting to improve the performance of the business and our
results for the year, in particular in the second half. The operations
in the UK and Nordics delivered a good trading result with our
customers rewarding us with greater market share and improved
profitability. The turnaround of the business in Italy is making
good progress, and our operations in Greece, Spain, Turkey,
Central Europe and Dixons Travel performed well.
We have made great strides in our online offer with over
£1.4 billion of sales now transacted over the internet, through
our pure play internet operations of PIXmania and Dixons.co.uk
as well as through our multi-channel internet operations. Our
broad offering gives customers greater choice as to how they
shop with us, either in-store, online or a combination of both,
with the convenience of reserve&collect. 
I would like to thank our shareholders for their support in
strengthening our capital base through the Placing and Rights
Issue in April 2009. This provided the Group with the financial
resources to allow further investment in the Renewal and
Transformation plan and is enabling the Group to emerge from
the recession in a much stronger position. Since then we have
continued to improve the strength of the balance sheet through
an intense focus on cash generation and stock management. 
In May this year we announced that we had successfully
renegotiated our bank facilities. 
Short term progress will inevitably be impacted to some degree by
the uncertain UK and Continental European economic and political
prospects. However, through the Renewal and Transformation plan
we should have the momentum to remain positive as we improve
the business for customers and shareholders.
We have an extremely strong and focused management team
ably led by a very talented and determined Chief Executive.
I would like to thank our management team for their efforts 
and the contribution they have made to our progress during the
year. They have the strategy, the customer focus and resolution
to ensure continued long term progress in the years ahead. 
Of course, their efforts would have been in vain were it not 
for our 39,000 colleagues in the Group who are responsible 
for, above all, our interaction with customers. I would like to
congratulate every colleague for the progress they have made
and thank them for their hard work.
We are seeking shareholder approval to amend the Group’s
registered name to Dixons Retail plc in order to harness the
strength of the Dixons name as the Group delivers on the
Renewal and Transformation plan and improves profitability. 
The Dixons name resonates strongly with suppliers, the market
and colleagues in a way that DSG international has not been
able to without significant investment in the brand. Further
information on this proposal is set out in the accompanying
notice of annual general meeting.
This year, the Group selected two national charities to support,
Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help to provide
access to technology for disadvantaged or disabled children. 
I am very proud of our colleagues, who have organised so many
fundraising activities, including supporting Blue Peter’s ‘Send a
Smile’ campaign as well as raising money for the DEC Haiti appeal.
I would like to thank my predecessor Sir John Collins for his
service and contribution to the Group. Our thanks also go to
Count Emmanuel d’André, who retired from the Board at last
year’s AGM, and John Whybrow, who retired from the Board 
in March this year. I would like to thank them both for their
significant contribution as non-executive directors. We wish
them well.
I would like to welcome Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen and Tim How 
as non-executive directors. Both Utho and Tim bring significant
management experience to the Group with proven track records
in the retail sector.
John Allan
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Our Renewal and Transformation plan is
improving the Group for our customers,
our colleagues and our shareholders.
Business Overview
John Allan Chairman
