 04 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Chairman’s Statement
John Allan
This has been a year when the economic environment has 
remained particularly challenging in many of the markets in  
which we operate. The Group has, however, remained focused 
on delivering a better experience for customers, which will 
position the business for significant progress when the  
economic environment improves. 
I am conscious that the Group has made only limited progress in 
financial returns year on year, but I can assure you that the Board is 
alive to the need to improve returns for shareholders. The work 
under the Renewal and Transformation plan has continued which 
will make the business better for our customers, simpler for our 
colleagues to manage and cheaper to run. This has started to 
show encouraging developments with improvements in customer 
satisfaction measures; we have maintained gross margins over the 
last two years in the face of competitive and challenging markets; 
our operations in the Nordics continue to go from strength to 
strength with sales up eight per cent. over the last year; we have 
taken decisive action in Spain to close our operations in a market 
where we saw little opportunity for short to medium term profitable 
recovery; and we have reduced costs by £50 million in the year.
Delivering a better 
experience for 
customers will 
position the Group for 
significant progress 
when the economic 
environment recovers 
In March this year we launched the KNOWHOW brand in the UK 
which encompasses all our after-sales services. KNOWHOW 
clearly puts the customer at the heart of everything we do and 
empowers all our colleagues to focus determinedly on our 
customers. Our KNOWHOW distribution and repair centre in 
Newark is world class. The logistics, distribution, repair and 
services areas are far better than many of our competitors. The 
efficient operation illustrates how far we have progressed in getting 
it right for customers first time. 
During the early part of the financial year we successfully issued a 
£150 million bond due 2015, which enabled us to repurchase just 
under half of the Group’s existing 2012 Bonds as well as extend 
the maturity of the Group’s working capital facility to 2013. This 
gives the Group a much more appropriate maturity profile on its 
debt facilities. 
We have made significant progress in transforming our stores  
with over 360 stores now in the Group’s new format, including  
65 Megastores across the Group. With a solid base of stores  
now transformed and significant improvements having been made 
to the Group’s operational processes we can now manage our 
capital expenditure carefully to ensure the Group has adequate 
capital to repay the remaining 2012 Bonds irrespective of the 
trading environment.
Recognising challenging conditions in some of our markets,  
and the ongoing business restructuring under the Renewal and 
Transformation plan, we have reviewed the balance sheet and 
made impairment and other non-underlying charges totalling 
£309.4 million. The additional cash impact of these charges is 
estimated as £39 million, of which approximately £8 million was 
incurred in 2010/11.
This year, the Group selected two national charities to support, 
Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help to provide 
access to technology for disadvantaged children or those with 
disabilities. I am very proud of our colleagues, who have 
organised so many fundraising activities throughout the year  
for both these charities as well as a number of charities local to 
the communities in which our stores operate.
This year we welcomed Dharmash Mistry to the Board as a 
non-executive director, who has substantial retail experience in 
consumer-facing and internet businesses. 
The year ahead remains a challenging one, particularly in the UK, 
Greece and Italy. Your Board is confident that the changes that 
have been, and are being, made to the Group will enable it to 
navigate the difficult environment ahead in a better shape than it 
has ever been. I would like to thank the management team led by 
John Browett, and in addition all of our colleagues across the 
Group, for their persistent hard work. I am convinced that we will 
emerge increasingly as a winner in the electricals and services 
market as the economy recovers. 
John Allan
Chairman 
