  Dixons Retail plc 
05
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Business Overview
01 - - 05
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Chief Executive’s Review
John Browett
The tough economic backdrop in many of our markets has made 
this a difficult year. Nonetheless, we have been able to balance 
improving our offer for customers whilst maintaining profitability. 
The shopping trip we provide to customers is more competitive 
and we see the impact on our business as we make our offer 
even better. Customers come to our stores because they are 
looking for great new products; however, they need a complete 
solution to get the best out of the latest technology. It is our job  
to make sure they leave our stores with the right products and 
services to meet all their needs. Increasingly, we are seeing the 
benefits of selling services effectively, particularly with the launch 
of KNOWHOW in the UK. 
Our Customer Plan is at the heart of the business and a key 
element of delivering on our core purpose of bringing life to 
technology, so I thought I would again lay out our progress in  
the last year under the plan. As ever, our objective is to make  
the business better for customers, easier for colleagues and 
cheaper to operate. 
They’re interested in working out what’s  
right for me
Our unique FIVES training programme has formed the basis of 
ensuring all our colleagues across Europe are equipped with the 
right tools to understand and meet customers’ needs. This year 
we have continued to refine and develop FIVES training, with 
colleagues attending many refresher courses. Alongside this we 
have introduced better product learning tools under our web
based Product Learning Centre. We have also worked with 
suppliers in the UK to hold over 900 workshops, enabling our 
colleagues to immerse themselves in fully understanding the 
features and benefits of a wide range of products, ensuring they 
can explain the exciting technology we sell to our customers.
We have also introduced a new colleague scheduling tool to all 
our shops in the UK to better ensure colleague availability meets 
our customer footfall patterns. This has already improved the 
measure of our colleague availability to our customers’ footfall  
in our stores by 20%.
Our objective is to be famous for great service. Our operations  
in the Nordics are already famed for excellent customer service 
and we can take many learnings from them and make further 
improvements as we roll out our vision to our other businesses. 
Through the actions so far we have made great progress with 
customer satisfaction metrics improving significantly since we 
started the Renewal and Transformation plan. In the year ahead 
there is much more we can do. Our new KNOWHOW services 
brand, launched in the UK at the beginning of 2011, embodies 
the behavioural attitudes that deliver a fantastic experience for 
our customers. Improved services and enhanced training plans 
will give our colleagues further tools to ensure every customer 
gets the right solution for their needs.
It’s an exciting place to be
We continue to develop our stores, making them exciting places 
to experience technology and find the right solutions for our 
customers’ needs. During the year we transformed over 130 
stores across the Group, which included 32 Megastores. In Italy 
the combined 2-in-1 format of Unieuro and PC City is now open 
in 19 locations and is proving to be a format that is as popular 
with Italian customers as it is in the UK. This to me proves that 
a well designed store and customer offer works across many 
markets. In the Nordics we now have 20 Megastores and will 
continue to transform stores to the larger Megastore format there 
in the years ahead. In the UK we now operate 31 Megastores  
and 56 combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World superstores. We 
have also introduced the 2-in-1 format to the High Street with 
great initial results. These new store formats are consistently 
delivering gross profit uplifts of between 15% and 20% and in 
some cases higher in the first year versus the unrefurbished 
estate. Encouragingly they are maintaining these uplifts into the 
second year.
Our objective is to 
make the business 
better for customers, 
easier for colleagues 
and cheaper to operate
Customer 
plan
It’s easy  
to shop
It’s an exciting 
place to be
They’re  
interested 
in working out 
what’s right  
for me
They deal with 
queries and  
complaints 
brilliantly
They make  
things work  
and keep 
them working
The prices 
are good
I can get  
what I want 
when I want it 06 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
A significant validation of the changes we are making manifested 
itself in the fact that we were a key partner for Apple’s launch of 
the iPad in the UK. The fact that our stores are great places for 
new technology where products can be demonstrated and their 
features explained fully is why Apple chose to partner with us on 
this important product launch. In October 2010 we launched an 
exciting new advertising campaign around the Megastore format 
in the UK, featuring R2D2 and C3PO from the Star Wars films, 
which was hugely popular with customers. It is testament to the 
work we are doing that Lucas Films allowed their iconic Star Wars 
characters to be used to advertise ‘the greatest technology stores 
in our universe’. We have also started to implement in-store 
demonstrations which bring the features and benefits of kitchen 
appliances to life in our stores with the introduction of live kitchens.
Having integrated PIXmania’s market leading e-merchant 
platform into our UK sites we have now been able to improve  
the customer offer on both the pure play internet business of  
dixons.co.uk and our multi-channel businesses such as  
currys.co.uk and pcworld.co.uk.
We are also looking at ways to raise the bar in our store formats even 
higher and during the year we opened a trial store in Birmingham 
called Black. The aim is to trial new ways of merchandising and 
demonstrating high end technology products as well as integrating 
our new KNOWHOW services into the proposition. During 2011 we 
will learn from this trial and will be using the elements that customers 
like the most in all our store transformations.
It’s easy to shop
Our new store layout and improved websites make it easier than 
ever before for our customers to choose the right product. We 
have made great progress this year in helping customers choose 
the right product for their needs through clearer signage and 
better information at point of sale, helping to untangle technology 
for our customers.
Our reserve&collect facility is proving to be a great success with 
our customers, giving them the ease of the internet combined 
with the convenience of our stores. In the last year we have seen 
our multi-channel internet sales, driven by reserve&collect, rise by 
13% across the Group.
In the year ahead we will make further improvements to our 
multi-channel offering providing customers with improved 
information on our websites as well as access to a wider  
range of products online and in-store through our websites.
I can get what I want when I want it
We have launched our own label brands of Currys and PC World 
essentials, Logik, Advent, Goji and Sandstrøm. Having had over 
70 different own brands previously, this simplified our offering and 
gives customers a clear good-better-best range of products from 
which to choose.
With our partner, Phones4U, we opened 57 shop in shops, giving 
our customers access to the latest smartphones and networks 
from one of the UK’s largest mobile phone retailers.
We must ensure that we provide excellent service to our 
customers every time we come into contact with them. Through 
our ‘At home with FIVES’ training we can ensure that a customer 
has everything they need when we visit their homes, reducing the 
need for a further call out by 52%.
Having made significant progress in managing our stock in the 
warehouse and in-store across the Group, this year we plan to 
simplify processes still further which will improve availability online 
and in-store while freeing up more time for our colleagues to 
spend with customers.
As a part of the KNOWHOW rollout to our home services team 
we have introduced Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) to the 
team which will help improve customer feedback and time 
management of our colleagues.  Dixons Retail plc 
07
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Business Overview
01 - - 05
The prices are good
Our scale across Europe means that we are continually able  
to give our customers the latest products at the best prices.  
We monitor prices against our competitors regularly with, for 
example, over 300,000 products checked every week in the UK, 
so we know we are offering real value to our customers every 
day. All this is backed up by our market leading price promise  
to refund 110% of the difference if a customer finds the same 
product cheaper elsewhere.
There are further changes we plan to make in the year ahead.  
By simplifying our promotions processes, for example, we can 
give customers better deals on new products by making our own 
brand products even better value through cost reductions and 
giving customers good, better and best choices across  
our ranges. We are also conscious that not all of our customers 
are aware of the significant value we offer compared to our 
competitors, so we will start to improve the communication of 
that messaging in the year ahead.
They make things work and keep them working
This was a significant year for our support services. We brought 
the majority of the service operations in house in the UK. We 
know we can only improve the service we offer by owning and 
being directly responsible for all contacts with our customers. 
That enabled us to launch the KNOWHOW brand bringing 
together the home services, distribution, contact centre and 
repair operations. With all these services now operating as one 
clear customer focused brand we have already started to see  
the benefits for our customers. I am immensely proud of our 
colleagues’ enthusiasm for the KNOWHOW brand, but more 
importantly their desire to really help customers as much as 
possible every step of the way through the lifecycle of the 
technology they use. Our turnaround times for repair products is 
faster, with 93% being returned at a pre-booked time. Our right 
first time delivery is one of the highest in the industry and our 
customer satisfaction levels are continually improving.
Under the KNOWHOW brand we will make further improvements 
to the services our customers receive by, for example, shortening 
the repair times even further; enabling customers to track their 
product while it is being repaired; and a ‘no lemons’ policy which 
means that, under our support agreements, if we fail to fix the 
product properly after three attempts a customer can request  
a replacement. We will also start to roll out the KNOWHOW 
services to our international businesses. This is a multi-year project 
which will require tailoring to each market, but our customers need 
our help with their products wherever they are, so this presents a 
major opportunity for our customers and our shareholders.
They deal with queries and complaints brilliantly
This year we consolidated our UK call centres into one location  
in Sheffield as well as enabled many of our call centre colleagues 
to work from home, increasing the ability to match colleague 
availability with customer calls. By analysing the reasons why 
customers call us and providing them with better information to 
reduce the need to call us, we have reduced the number of calls 
we receive by 11%. Together with increased cross skilling we 
have increased the availability and ability of our colleagues to 
resolve customers’ issues. As a result we have seen increased 
customer satisfaction and reduced repeat calls. We have also 
made the processes for stores dealing with customers’ issues 
easier for our colleagues and better for our customers. 
 
In the year ahead we will improve our systems further so that 
customers and their products can be identified more easily  
when they call. We will continue to identify the root cause of 
customer calls and eliminate the need for customers to call in  
the first place.
 
As you can see, the volume of work on our Renewal and 
Transformation plan is still very high. Our reward is improving 
customer satisfaction and higher share in many of our markets. 
We are starting to stand out for customers and we have  
much more to deliver to make our customers’ shopping trip  
even better. 
 
These achievements would not be possible without the 
enthusiasm, dedication and hard work of our 38,000 colleagues 
across the business and I would like to thank them all for their 
contribution to making Dixons Retail a great business.
Outlook
The economic backdrop remains challenging, particularly in the 
first half as we anniversary the World Cup and iPad launch. 
However the Group is well prepared for this environment. We are 
creating a market leading differentiated customer offer, leaving us 
well set to emerge from the current climate ahead of the 
competition.
John Browett
Chief Executive
