 08 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive
Sebastian James
The following is taken from a video of an interview with  
Sebastian James that is available on our corporate website,  
www.dixonsretail.com.
Dixons and the sector have faced some  
well-documented challenges in recent 
years. How do you see the business now?
We think we are in pretty good shape. If we think about the last year 
we’ve halved our net debt. We have put in place a new revolving 
credit facility that will give us bank support for the next three years. 
And we’ve got a terriﬁc plan to drive the business forward and 
improve its performance and proﬁtability in the coming years. 
If we consider where we were three or four years ago we had a 
business where we had really lost sight of the customer in what we 
were trying to do. At the same time, the market was getting much 
more competitive. Of course, we didn’t know it then, but we were 
also heading into a powerful economic storm. It’s been very exciting 
and made me very proud to be part of a team that really faced those 
challenges and began to make proper differences, particularly for 
our customers.
What are your priorities for the Group?
There are three things that emerge for me as the priorities for the 
Group, having visited all our businesses and understood what their 
issues are. 
1.   In every market the ﬁrst and most important thing we need to do 
is build a sustainable position for the business, to really establish 
our place in the world in that market, to build this position as the 
place that a customer would rationally choose all the time to buy 
electrical goods.
2. The second thing is we have a number of businesses that are 
performing extremely well, and that are generating good returns.  
I need to tackle very hard those areas of the business which 
perhaps are not generating as good returns. I need to make sure 
that we take those businesses and ﬁnd solutions that notably give 
them the right strategic position but also return them to proﬁtability.
“Above all, we need to be the  
best electrical retailer who helps 
customers make great choices.” 09
Business Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
3. Thirdly, we’ve only just scratched the surface of the potential that 
we have in learning from one another and in leveraging our scale 
across our Group. One example would be that we have several 
suppliers with whom we have signiﬁcant relationships. We will look 
at how we can make these work better for the Group as a whole.
If we do these three things we can improve returns for our 
shareholders. We need to focus very explicitly as a whole business 
right down the organisation on doing this. I am very committed that 
the whole business begins to think about how it makes sure that 
everyone is doing a great job for our customers, and that generates  
a return for our shareholders. 
What do you really mean by doing a great 
job for customers?
If I use the UK, as an interesting example, and this holds true also 
in Italy and Greece and in a number of the territories in which we 
operate, we have moved from being a business that was all about 
pile it high, sell it cheap in stores into a business that really takes 
seriously the question of ‘how do I make my customers happy?’.  
Our job is to take customers’ fears and anxieties and use technology 
to make their lives better. I genuinely believe that most of my 
colleagues in all of our stores and all of our home delivery vans,  
are thinking how do I make people happier today. After all the most 
expensive thing a customer can do is choose the wrong product.
We, of course, need to be very competitive on price. But above all 
we need to be the people who help customers make great choices. 
That means taking the time, the effort to demonstrate, to display  
and to understand what customers are trying to achieve when they 
come into our stores looking for electrical goods.
How do you make sure your colleagues 
can deliver this?
We have retrained all of our colleagues right the way through the 
cycle at least three times in the UK. If you took all of our colleagues  
a year ago and you take all our staff today 85% of the people who  
are here today in the UK were also here a year ago. And in retail 
that’s quite a high number. We are equipping our colleagues every 
day to do a better job for customers. 
How do you measure this?
Over the last year and half we have moved our customer advocacy  
in the UK, and we use a very tough measure of strong advocacy  
of ‘very likely to recommend us’, from 43% to 75%. If we use the 
measure that a lot of people use in the market which is ‘likely to 
recommend us’ we reach 92%. 
While these numbers are comparable with the very best retailers in 
the UK, I will never be satisﬁed until we hit 100%. But this shift is a 
profound change in the way customers who shop with us are talking 
about us, thinking about us and referring to us. We are not nearly 
there yet. We have much more to do, but I think it’s a very powerful 
signal that we have changed our approach to the world.
We also reward our colleagues in the UK on these metrics and so 
are explicitly rewarding them for doing a better job for customers.
Isn’t the internet a threat to your 
business model?
We must be price competitive with the internet and we must be price 
competitive with supermarkets, and increasingly we are, very. In fact 
we are quite often cheaper than the internet.
We can differentiate on service, but it does of course cost more to 
provide the convenience of stores as well as service. We can afford  
to do it because we think we’ve solved a number of very important 
problems about how we bridge the gap in our cost between our  
cost structure and that of a single channel internet operator.
The internet is a friend to us. We have a very large multi-channel 
business in the UK, and it’s growing incredibly fast. We need to think 
about a world where a customer starts their journey online, goes to 
store to look at the product and to make a good choice and might 
end up ordering it back at home for pick up in-store. This is a quite 
normal transaction now.
So increasingly I’m not thinking is this an online or ofﬂine transaction, 
but did the customer end up buying from me or did they end up 
buying from somebody else? And that I think is the critical question. 10 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive
Sebastian James
So what makes your model sustainable?
There are four activities we can do that are key strengths of our 
multi-channel service-led business model.
The ﬁrst very important thing that we need to do is work with 
suppliers to understand which products they would like customers  
to choose. Generally speaking there is a combination of things.  
The customers that are happiest are the ones that buy the products 
that are best for them, and the products that are best for them are 
usually the newest ones with the best technology. 
Suppliers also make more money out of the products that are newer, 
because they invest a lot of money in research and then they are able 
to charge a premium for those products because they have genuine 
differentiating beneﬁts for the customer.
With the 40 million conversations a year that we have with customers,  
we can talk to them to explain the beneﬁts, demonstrate the newer 
and better products that make customers happy and which 
suppliers want to sell. Our suppliers support us for this work  
in a number of ways.
The second very important thing we need to do is that when 
customers come in and they say they want a piece of hardware  
such as a television what they mean is they want to do something. 
They want to watch the game, they want to entertain the children. 
That’s also true for a computer, say, if they want to start a business. 
It’s the doing that they want to do. To do so they actually need  
a whole variety of other things as well as just the box.
Where customers might be able to go to the internet and choose a 
box and get it delivered, we will provide the installation, the teaching 
that helps them to learn how to use it, all the bits and pieces they 
need as well as the peace of mind that if anything goes wrong they 
know where we are. So these things are very important sources  
of revenue for us. 
Thirdly, we believe that customers will reward us with a small 
premium for providing excellent service, for being there, for giving 
them peace of mind if they trust us. 
The ﬁnal thing we need to be is very efﬁcient. We’ve taken a huge 
amount of cost out of our business over the last four years, while 
improving customer service, and we need to go on doing that.  
We need to be really smart about every penny that we spend and 
about ﬁxing our processes, improving our systems, improving the 
way we think about our business so that we can be efﬁcient.
With those things together we think we more than bridge the gap 
between our cost structure and the single channel internet operators.
We think we now have a business in which nearly all of the time, in 
nearly all of the markets, in nearly all of our stores we are providing 
the sort of service that customers want, and are telling us they want. 
And we are doing that efﬁciently and well. I believe that’s a great 
springboard and I believe that we are the best and the only show in 
town if you want to come and buy electrical goods and have a really 
good experience doing so.
Sebastian James
Group Chief Executive
