 06 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
Chairman’s Statement
John Allan
Dixons Retail has continued to make signiﬁcant progress since I  
last reported to you. We remain relentlessly focused on two goals – 
continuously improving our offer to customers while at the same time 
strengthening our business in the long term interests of shareholders.
A key component to both is to develop and engage our people.
During the course of the year both John Browett, our Chief 
Executive, and Nicholas Cadbury, our Group Finance Director,  
chose to leave to join Apple and Premier Farnell, respectively.  
We are grateful to them for the contribution they made and were 
sorry to see them go, but one of our areas of focus has been on 
ensuring we were well placed in terms of senior management 
succession. As a result we were pleased to be able to appoint  
strong successors from within the Group in Sebastian James and 
Humphrey Singer and also to be able to appoint Katie Bickerstaffe  
to the Board in the new role of Chief Executive UK & Ireland.
Sebastian and Katie have led much of the successful change in  
the UK & Ireland business over the last four years. We are quietly 
conﬁdent that Sebastian’s strong management team will build on the 
foundations that have been laid and take the Group to sustainable 
success over the next few years.
The economic environment has remained challenging in all of our 
markets and this has held back our overall proﬁt progress. In the  
UK & Ireland, Nordics and Greece where we are market leaders we 
have continued to gain market share. We delivered another strong 
performance in the Nordics while in the UK & Ireland, despite  
a declining market, we managed to grow proﬁtability through a 
strengthened customer offer, tight management of costs and careful 
margin management. The Italian and Greek economies have been 
particularly difﬁcult and PIXmania has had to adapt its business 
model signiﬁcantly in a rapidly changing multi-channel environment. 
Recognising the continuing challenges in these markets, we have 
impaired the goodwill of these businesses which, together with other 
non-underlying charges, totalled £189.6 million, therefore resulting  
in a pre-tax loss of £118.8 million. 
Our Southern European business units and PIXmania are receiving 
particular focus at present and we are determined to reduce the 
proﬁt drag they represent as quickly as possible.
In spite of the continuing economic and performance challenges we 
feel we can now look to the future with real conﬁdence, particularly  
in the UK & Ireland and Northern European divisions. Having ﬁxed 
many of the issues in the Group we will now ensure we complete  
the job and deliver a competitively superior offering. The interview 
“Dixons Retail has continued  
to make signiﬁcant progress.  
We can now look to the future 
with real conﬁdence.” 2010/11 8,154.4
2011/12 8,186.7
2009/10 8,320.0
2008/09 7,955.8
Underlying Group sales*
(£million)
(£million)
2010/11 127.6
2011/12 115.1 
2009/10 133.2
2008/09 95.3 214.3
EBIT*
2010/11 85.3 
2011/12 70.8 
2009/10 90.9 
2008/09 70.6 
Underlying proﬁt before tax*
(£million)
2010/11 1.6 
2011/12 1.1 
2009/10 1.5 
2008/09 1.3 
Underlying diluted earnings per share*
(pence)
*Underlying performance measures are as deﬁned in the Performance Review.
07
Business Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
with Sebastian on the following page and which is available to view 
on our corporate website, sets out some of the opportunities ahead.
We are delighted with the successful launch of our Knowhow™ 
brand in the UK which encompasses all of our service offerings.  
All of our colleagues, whether in stores, or in our service and logistic 
centres, have worked hard to deliver great service and to give real 
meaning to the brand and we have begun to broaden our offering 
through the launch of new services.
During the year the Group continued its modest support for two 
national charities – Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which 
help provide access to technology for children with disabilities or 
who are disadvantaged. Our colleagues have organised some great 
events to raise money for these charities and I would like to thank 
them for their efforts. In the year ahead we will review whether and 
how we can provide greater support and access to technology for 
disadvantaged children and their families.
Andrew Lynch retired from the Board after nine years as a non-
executive director. I would like to thank him for his considerable 
contribution as both Senior Independent Director and as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. Tim How has taken on the role of Senior 
Independent Director and Jock Lennox, who joined the Board in 
January, has taken on the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee. 
Jock has a wealth of experience from a long and distinguished 
career at Ernst & Young and I am sure will add real value both  
to the Audit Committee and the Board.
I would particularly like to thank my non-executive colleagues for  
their tireless efforts throughout the year. The executive director 
changes led to a number of meetings and calls to which all the 
non-executives committed and contributed wholeheartedly.
In the year ahead it is likely that the economic challenges will remain 
and possibly in some markets intensify. However we are conﬁdent 
that our single-minded focus on getting the customer offer right  
while continuing to improve our efﬁciency will position us to make  
the maximum possible progress.
I would like to thank all our colleagues for their successful efforts  
over the last year and I am sure they will work equally hard to achieve 
further success in the year ahead.
John Allan 
Chairman
