 Dixons Retail plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Group Chief Executive's Statement
I have now had my first full financial year in this role and 
I am pleased to report that we have made a lot of good 
progress. There remains much to do, but I am blessed with 
a strong team, and am proud of the way in which all of my 
colleagues have continued to improve the business for our 
customers. There is no doubt that we are reaping, and will 
continue to reap, rewards for our shareholders as a result. 
When I took over this role, I identified that there were three 
things which we needed to do:
1. Drive a successful and sustainable business model for 
a modern, multi-channel customer.
2. Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group 
operates.
3. Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European 
scale and knowhow.
These are discussed in more detail in the Strategy section 
of this report and by focusing on these we have delivered, 
and we believe we will continue to deliver, improved cash 
and EBIT returns.
In the UK & Ireland division the work carried out over 
the last few years to improve the business is now really 
starting to bear fruit under Katie Bickerstaffe’s strong 
leadership. I am convinced that we have now built the most 
economically sustainable specialist electrical multi-channel 
retail model in Europe, if not the World – though we still 
have much to do. A key part of this is a core belief that we 
do not have our customers by right, but that we have to 
earn the conversation with them every single day through 
great service and great prices. Our customer satisfaction 
and advocacy ratings are at all time highs and, though 
we will never be satisfied until we never make a mistake, 
with 93% of people saying that they would recommend 
us, we are definitely making progress. We are maintaining 
extremely high service standards with our two man delivery 
teams and our call centres. At the same time we continue 
to drive our prices so that we are getting more and more 
competitive with all of our competitors in all channels 
every day.
We continue to reshape the store portfolio with our 2-in-1 
stores (of which we now have 198) making a real difference 
for customers as well as delivering significantly improved 
economics. We continue to push our thinking on how to 
make our shops even more exciting, and during the year 
we opened a new store concept in Solihull that delivers 
another step forward in creating a place for customers to 
experience the best electrical products, get great advice 
and be inspired by the incredible new technologies that 
are emerging. Whether it be a simple kettle, or the latest 
high definition 3D Smart LED television, our job is to make 
buying it easy, fun and confidence-inspiring. Learnings from 
Solihull will shape our stores going forward, but we will 
also continue to push thinking with new ‘future-store’ ideas 
during the coming year. 
We now give customers a fully integrated and seamless 
multi-channel experience. Customers typically research on-
line before buying a brand new computer or television, but 
invariably also want to experience the product before they 
buy. We make the internet into a powerful friend by giving 
people a great experience both on-line and in store with 
every possible shopping option available to them.
Launching the KNOWHOW brand two years ago gave us 
a great opportunity to create something special for our 
customers – a connected brand delivering all the services 
that people need throughout the life of their product, but 
most importantly doing it really well. With great service 
metrics, KNOWHOW is delivering for customers and it 
is growing strongly in the fledgling added value services 
market.
Our colleagues in store have benefited from our 
comprehensive training programme that allows them to 
be genuinely knowledgeable on all the latest product 
developments, so that when customers come in to 
our stores they can be sure they are getting the very 
best advice. 
All of these things have meant that we can work 
with suppliers in new and exciting ways. The newest 
technologies can be bewildering and we do an important 
job for our suppliers in showcasing and demonstrating 
them to our customers. We bring our suppliers’ products 
to life in store and we are not shy of recommending those 
that we think are the best through the ‘Our Experts Love’ 
programme. In many of our markets we are the only people 
who can deliver this hands-on experience and, increasingly, 
both our suppliers and our customers are showing us, 
tangibly, that this is valuable to them.
In Northern Europe we have a very strong business. It 
is market leader in all its Nordic markets. With a lean 
operating model and a reputation for good customer 
service, it delivered a 4% return on sales in the year. 
We have a new, and very capable, management team 
in place under Jaan Ivar Semlitsch, our Managing 
Director of Northern Europe, and we can see a number 
of opportunities to improve the business further with 
better information systems, customer measurements 
and standardised operations. The fundamental business 
model and priorities are very similar in the Nordics and 
we are starting to share our operating model more than 
ever before. 
The competitive position of our Nordic Group is very strong 
in all of its markets but we anticipate that there will be some 
competitive activity this year. However, we will continue to 
take any action necessary to make sure that we continue 
to win and I am confident that the Northern European 
business will continue to deliver good returns.
In Southern Europe we have made good progress in 
stabilising the businesses which continue to operate in very 
tough economic environments and competitive markets. 
Mario Maiocchi, Managing Director for Southern Europe, 
has been relentless in driving cost improvements and 
stabilising the profit performance of the businesses. Dixons Retail plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Group Chief Executive's Statement (continued)
In Greece we have a very good business with a powerful 
brand and market position. Our priority is to continue to 
manage the business there with a tight control on costs 
and focus on serving the customer while waiting for the 
economy to stabilise. I am confident that as and when 
the economy in Greece starts to improve we will return to 
enjoying good returns out of Kotsovolos. In Italy we are a 
relatively small player in a very fragmented market and we 
are actively looking for ways to put our business there on 
a more solid strategic footing which may take some time. 
In the meantime, we have been focusing on constantly 
improving the customer experience (we won the mobile 
phone retailer of the year this year) while the team have 
been very aggressive in keeping a tight rein on costs. Our 
joint venture business in Turkey operates in a dynamic 
market, however it is one that is now very crowded in our 
space and we anticipate quite a lot of structural market 
change there.
Our troubled single channel operation in France, PIXmania, 
has been a primary focus for me. Having taken full control 
of the business in August 2012 we put in place a new 
management team and embarked on a restructuring plan 
that removed a substantial proportion of the costs, but most 
importantly stopped activities that were a drain on the core 
business. We remain focused on putting the business on a 
firmer financial footing.
Across the Group we have some very successful and 
strong operations with many exceptional people doing 
great things every day. I am keen that we share the best 
practices in each and every one of our businesses to 
ensure we fully exploit the benefits of being a Group. 
While it is still early days, I am pleased to say that we have 
already started to see some good practices being shared. 
For example ‘Our Experts Love’ model is a refinement of 
the model we use in Elkjøp, KNOWHOW has launched 
in Greece, Italy and Denmark and will be rolled out to all 
of our Nordic region Megastores this year. Over Peak we 
introduced a number of products across Europe which 
enabled us to offer our customers some great deals. I am 
keen to see just how far we can develop this alignment of 
our businesses over the next few years and I look forward 
to sharing with you our progress.
In almost all of our markets we have seen competitors 
disappear, both big and small. While we are seeing the 
benefit of capacity exiting our markets, we cannot be 
complacent. Our place remains shoulder to shoulder with 
the customer ensuring they get great products and services 
every minute of every day no matter how they choose 
to shop.
Our balance sheet is stronger than it has been for some 
time and I am very pleased with the cash performance of the 
Group which was as a result of excellent work in managing 
our working capital position. This year, our 2012 bonds 
reached maturity, as did a substantial currency hedge 
taken out many years ago, and we repurchased a number 
of our 2015 bonds through issuing new 2017 bonds. The 
fact that these new bonds were extremely well subscribed 
reflects, I think, the improving perception of Dixons Retail 
as it emerges from its restructuring over the last few years. I 
am confident that we now have the right, smoother, maturity 
profile on our borrowings. Our strong cash generation means 
that we can see a clear path to eliminating the external 
sources of finance from the Group over the next three to four 
years and in due course to start to reward shareholders for 
their support and perseverance over the last few years.
In the year ahead there are many new products coming 
to market, including even better quality televisions with 
the introduction of OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) 
and ultra high definition. Digitisation and energy efficiency 
continue to drive developments in white goods. With the 
main computer operating system platforms from Google, 
Microsoft and Apple all looking to grow their market shares, 
we are uniquely placed for these brands to help customers 
understand the features and benefits of each and to help 
them choose which one is right for them. While these are 
all exciting shorter term developments we continue to look 
at how our markets will evolve in the years ahead. We have 
some fantastic opportunities in content and added value 
services as we continue to develop our services model 
under the KNOWHOW brand. 
As we look forward we remain focused on doing what is 
right for the customer, improving our stores, our services 
and our financial performance.
It remains for me to give a huge thank you to all my 
colleagues who have worked so hard over the last year, 
in some cases in difficult environments. I am extremely 
proud of them all and know that I can rely on them for their 
continued support in the year ahead.
Sebastian James
Group Chief Executive
