 Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Chairman’s Statement
Dixons Retail plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
When I last reported to you I highlighted that we remained 
relentlessly focused on two goals – continuously improving 
our offer to customers while at the same time strengthening 
our business in the long term interests of shareholders. 
I am pleased to report that we have had a year of good 
progress in Dixons Retail on both fronts:
• Our improving offer for customers is working as we see our 
key businesses strengthen their standing in each of their 
markets.
•	 We have strengthened our balance sheet through both 
the external debt markets as well as through improving 
cash generation.
And I am pleased that these actions have started to be 
reflected in the overall value of our shares.
The economic environment continues to remain challenging 
across Europe, but a continuous focus on the customer 
is enabling us to strengthen our position in key markets, 
particularly as the competitor landscape consolidates. 
Building on the Renewal and Transformation plan, 
Sebastian James has, in his first full year as Group Chief 
Executive, set the business on a clear path to delivering 
a sustainable business for the long term. We are building 
a blueprint model for how a leading specialist electrical 
retailing and services company should operate.
In the UK & Ireland, Katie Bickerstaffe has tirelessly 
driven the business forward since taking the reins at the 
beginning of 2012. Impressive customer satisfaction 
measures continue to be delivered day in and day out by 
all our colleagues in store, in the call centre and in our 
delivery and services networks, for which they must be 
congratulated, and which are key to building a business to 
which customers and suppliers continue to return. 
Our business in Northern Europe had another strong year 
as it further consolidates its position in each of its markets. 
This year we welcomed Jaan Ivar Semlitsch as Managing 
Director of Northern Europe and he brings a wealth of 
experience in retail. He is already starting to have a positive 
impact on the business and in developing best practice 
across the Group.
Our operations across Southern Europe continue to 
experience challenging economic environments. We have a 
solid business in Greece, but need to continue to move our 
Italian and Turkish businesses on to more stable financial 
footings.
PIXmania continues to experience challenges, but I am 
pleased that Sebastian swiftly started action once we took 
full control of the business in August. 
Our services business, KNOWHOW, has had another 
good year and I am pleased that we are now starting to 
embed some of its elements more widely across the Group 
with in-store clinics in Greece, Italy and Denmark being 
rolled out.
Our underlying Group profit before tax of £94.5 million was 
a good overall performance, but the Group is capable of 
more. While Dixons Retail has made significant progress 
since it embarked on the Renewal and Transformation plan 
in 2008 there remains further work to be done. The strong 
performances in the UK & Ireland and Nordics businesses 
has enabled these businesses together to deliver on our 
target of 3-4% return on sales and we need to consolidate 
this. We must continue to work on improving or resolving 
the performances in Southern Europe and PIXmania to 
enable the Group to make better progress on overall EBIT 
performance. As we continue to work on this we have 
incurred non-underlying charges of £209.8 million, resulting 
in a Group statutory pre-tax loss of £115.3 million.
The Group continues to make good progress on generating 
cash enabling us to reduce steadily net debt and 
restructure our external borrowing facilities. Following a 
successful new bond issue in September 2012, we have a 
better balance of external debt facilities, a more appropriate 
maturity profile, as well as a strengthened balance sheet.
During the year the Group continued to raise money for 
various charities in the countries in which our businesses 
operate. In the UK, our colleagues raised an impressive 
£100,000 for Children in Need in a very busy four weeks. 
In the Nordics, we raised NOK 3.75 million in support of 
the Red Cross water for life campaign. We continue to 
review how we can provide greater support and access to 
technology for disadvantaged children and their families.
Rita Clifton retired from the Board after nine years as a 
non-executive director. I would like to thank her for her 
considerable contribution in that time. I am also pleased 
to welcome Andrea Gisle Joosen to the Board. She brings 
with her a wealth of business experience in the consumer 
electronics sector and an in-depth knowledge of the Nordic 
region.
The Board, through its various committees, ensures that 
the requisite controls are in place across the business and 
that the highest possible principles of corporate governance 
are adhered to.
In the year ahead we are not anticipating any help from 
the economic environments of the markets in which we 
operate, but our model is proving to be a winner in its 
markets. We remain confident that our single-minded 
focus on getting the customer offer right while continuing 
to improve our efficiency will ensure we can continue to 
deliver on our goals.
I would like to thank all our colleagues and congratulate 
the leadership team for their successful efforts over the last 
year and I am sure they will work equally hard to achieve 
further success in the year ahead.
John Allan
Chairman
