  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 4 
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview 
Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
I am delighted to be reporting another year of significant 
progress for the Group. When taking on this role a little over  
two years ago I recognised that to be successful and to best 
reward our shareholders we needed to focus on those markets 
where we have a leadership position. So I am very pleased to 
report that we are now delivering on that promise with our UK  
& Ireland, Nordics and Greek operations all leaders in their 
markets delivering great service for our customers each and 
every day. In a busy year we disposed of our businesses in 
Italy, Turkey, Czech Republic and Slovakia, as well as exiting 
the PIXmania operations, thereby streamlining and focusing  
the Group. 
A leadership position is important in our industry as it makes us 
the most relevant place to go for customers as well as the most 
relevant outlet for our suppliers. It is this for which suppliers 
reward us, and is a key factor in ensuring we have a sustainable 
business in a multi-channel world. These key factors put us 
firmly in control of our own destiny. Our colleagues can serve 
our millions of customers with the confidence that we have the  
best offer in each of our markets. 
As a more streamlined and focused group we are able to free 
up capital enabling investment in our stores, colleague training, 
our websites and importantly our service offering. Continuously 
improving our business for customers and colleagues has 
contributed to further improvements in our already impressive 
customer satisfaction scores with, for example 88% of 
customers in the UK highly likely to recommend us to friends 
and family. In fact during the year 319 stores in the UK scored 
100% at least once on this metric. 
Having delivered on one of our key objectives I see the three 
things we now need to focus on to drive further returns for our 
shareholders as: 
1. Continue to enhance and drive a successful and sustainable 
business model in a multi-channel world. 
2. Leverage our national and pan-European scale, our 
knowhow, and our unique asset base to drive growth in new 
product areas including growth in services – both to our 
retail and business customers. 
3. Become a major player in connectivity and associated 
services and so be uniquely positioned to benefit from 
technology changes as the majority of devices become 
connected. 
These are discussed in more detail under the Strategy section 
of this report, but I’d like to dwell on the last of these three. 
You will no doubt have seen that we have announced a 
proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse. We have a  
great offer for customers across all our businesses, but as  
the technology we use evolves and becomes increasingly 
connected we need to have a fully integrated offering across 
electricals, mobiles and connectivity. While we have this to 
some extent in the Nordics and Greece, Carphone Warehouse 
would clearly bring further expertise in mobiles and connectivity 
across the Group, but most particularly to our UK & Ireland 
business. I am incredibly excited about the opportunities that 
this proposed combination would bring to the Group. Our two 
businesses are coming together from positions of strength 
which will enable us to focus on adding value – the opportunities 
for which I see as being the following. 
Firstly, in bringing two sizeable companies together we can 
leverage significant synergies from the combination. We believe 
that we can deliver at least £80 million of synergies on a 
recurring basis, with delivery expected in the 2017/18 financial 
year. These are a combination of costs, revenue opportunities 
from putting a Carphone Warehouse mobile offering in all of our 
stores as well as some benefits from having increased scale in 
administrative purchasing, such as marketing. We confirm that 
the synergy statements that were set out in our joint merger 
announcement with Carphone Warehouse on 15 May 2014 
remain valid. Deloitte LLP and Deutsche Bank AG, London 
Branch reported on these synergy statements in that joint 
announcement and we expect them to confirm to Carphone 
Warehouse on publication of the shareholder documentation 
relating to the merger that their reports continue to apply. If the 
transaction successfully completes, I look forward to updating 
you on what further opportunities we can deliver in enjoining  
our two businesses together.  
In addition, by being a unique place for customers to experience 
new products that will make up the connected world as well as 
get advice from our highly trained colleagues, we can truly be 
the go to expert for this new, exciting and complex world for 
customers. Not only can we help them in navigating their way to 
a truly connected home, we can bring existing and new services 
to them to keep their world functioning and connected. This will 
not only open up new products and services for us, but can take 
our relationship with our customers from a transactional one, to 
a longer term relationship. 
Further, both we and Carphone Warehouse have started to 
explore how we can leverage the platforms we have created 
that support our core retailing and services expertise to further 
benefit our shareholders. Carphone Warehouse has made great 
strides in this field with its Connected World Services business 
that provides a selection of services to support retailers wishing 
to add connectivity to their offering. We already provide two man 
delivery logistics for certain manufacturers  
in the UK and are in discussions to leverage our Hong Kong 
white label product sourcing operations for other retailers 
around the world. Together we can offer a full range of  
services to business customers with the potential to build a 
significant operation across the globe, adding real value for  
our shareholders. 
Turning to the performance of our underlying operations, the  
UK & Ireland has had another strong year. An increase in like 
for like sales of 5% across the year ensured we gained further 
market share. Profitability grew by 24% to £141 million, 
delivering a 3.4% return on sales. This performance reinforces 
the fact that we have built a market leading, economically robust 
business – one that is delivering great service each and every 
day. As I mentioned earlier this is being increasingly reflected in 
the record customer advocacy scores. But also because we 
believe that we have to earn a conversation with a customer 
through great advice, prices and service. Katie Bickerstaffe has 
ably led her team in delivering a truly transformed business that 
stands shoulder to shoulder with our customers. The team 
vigorously grasped the opportunity provided by consolidation in 
the UK market over the last two years, significantly increasing 
our market share and thereby our relevance to both customers 
and suppliers. This gain has been most significant in white 
goods where we have grown market share faster than our peers 
and established a market leading position across both large and 
small kitchen appliances, all supported by our leading services 
offering incorporating delivery, installation, repair and recycling. 
Indeed we are trialling a new kitchen department as we look to 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 5 
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Group Chief Executive’s Statement (continued) 
deepen our offer for customers in this area. The year ahead is 
an exciting one for CurrysPCWorld and KNOWHOW, 
particularly as we combine the business with Carphone 
Warehouse to deliver an unrivalled offer for customers. 
Our Nordics business had another successful year with like for 
like sales up 2%. Jaan Ivar Semlitsch and his team have risen 
to face a few challenges this year while also continuing to 
improve the offer for customers, service levels and growing 
market shares. 
In the Spring of 2013 we introduced ‘Happy or Not’ kiosks into 
the stores across the region, this enables the store to monitor 
customer satisfaction scores in real time and make dynamic 
adjustments in response, such as adjusting shift patterns. 
Encouragingly we have seen a steady improvement in these 
scores through the year with 85% of customers in April 2014 
saying they were happy with their store visit. 
Our business in Greece has weathered the storm of the 
economic crisis well. It at last looks like there may be some 
glimmers of improvement on the horizon. With powerful brand 
positioning and strong relationships with suppliers, Kotsovolos 
has gained further market share and can at last look forward 
with some confidence. While the economy still has some way  
to go, Kotsovolos is well positioned to help customers as the 
recovery takes shape. 
Our Group is in the best shape it has been for a number of 
years. Net cash of £70.9 million at the year end means we are 
in robust financial health and have clarity on being able to 
redeem our 2015 and 2017 bonds as they fall due. With the 
proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse I am delighted that 
we will be able to return to paying a dividend, a milestone that 
underpins the financial robustness of a successful business, 
and will enable us to further reward our loyal shareholders. 
As ever I remain indebted to my colleagues across the Group,  
in particular those out in our shops, call centres, service labs, 
warehouses and delivery services helping, surprising and 
delighting our customers every day. It is they that enable us to 
make this a truly great business and I thank them for their hard 
work and dedication. We embark on a new chapter in the year 
ahead and I know I can rely on them for their continued support. 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive 
25 June 2014
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
