  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 3 
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview 
Chairman’s Statement 
Your Group has made considerable progress this year in 
delivering our key priorities. We also announced a proposed 
merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc (Carphone) to 
take us on the next phase of growth. 
On top of this, the fundamentals of the business have become 
stronger than ever. Customers are increasingly recognising our 
improved offer and our financial position continues to be 
strengthened through good cash generation. 
I am confident that the Group is now in a better position than  
it has been for a number of years, and I am again pleased  
that these actions are being reflected in the overall value of  
our shares. 
The Group is now focused on those markets where it has a 
leadership position. Sebastian James and his team have ably 
negotiated transactions that have seen us exit from Turkey, 
Italy, Central Europe and the pure play business of PIXmania. 
All operations which we couldn’t see a clear economic path to 
leadership and which were a drag on the overall performance  
of the Group. We have also put our UK & Ireland, Nordics and 
Greek operations on the road to delivering a sustainable 
business for the long term. Our suppliers, customers and 
colleagues all recognise the improvements we have made and 
we are leading the field in how a specialist electrical retailing 
and services company should operate. 
In the UK & Ireland, Katie Bickerstaffe and her team have 
delivered another strong performance with market share gains 
and improvement in profitability of the division, which grew  
24% year on year. This reflects the hard work being done that 
continues to deliver an improved offer for customers which is 
being recognised with another year of record advocacy scores. 
Katie and her team are now exploring new ways to excite and 
engage with customers with trials of new store formats and  
new categories, such as the connected world trials in five large 
stores. I look forward to seeing how this division delivers 
another year of progress in the year ahead. 
Our Nordics business, which has been a stalwart in our group 
for a number of years, continues to deliver a solid set of results. 
In his first full year Jaan Ivar Semlitsch has consolidated 
Elkjøp’s postion in each of its markets, faced into some tough 
competitive positions and embraced being a part of the Group 
that will see all our businesses benefit properly from shared 
expertise. We have, during the year, rolled our KNOWHOW 
services into the Nordics delivering a market leading range of 
services to Elkjøp’s customers. With new customer 
measurement tools, the team is responding dynamically to 
customer needs with improving satisfaction scores being 
delivered. 
The economic environment in Greece remains tough, but we 
did see some modest signs of stabilisation towards the end of 
the financial year. Kotsovolos has a great reputation amongst 
customers and is benefiting from market share gains. As a 
result the business is well placed to benefit from any 
improvement in the Greek economy.
In streamlining the Group and disposing of non-core businesses 
we did incur non-underlying charges and with other items  
these totalled £186.0 million, resulting in a total loss after tax  
of £70.3 million. However, underlying Group profit before tax  
of £166.2 million was a significant improvement year on year 
and enabled us to enjoy another year of cash generation.  
While net cash was positive in the year we remain focused on 
reducing the financial leverage of the Group to improve the 
balance sheet as well as returns for shareholders. 
This puts the Group in a strong and healthy financial position 
from which to embark on our next phase of growth. With the 
products we sell becoming increasingly connected, the internet 
of things is upon us and rapidly evolving. With this in mind one 
of our objectives has been to bring a market leading mobile  
and connectivity offer to our customers. While we have good 
positions in the Nordics and Greece, we need to strengthen  
our position in the UK & Ireland. The proposed merger with 
Carphone, if completed, will bring two market leading 
businesses together with an unrivalled offer for this new 
connected world for customers, not just in products and 
connectivity, but in the great service platforms we both have. 
Documentation giving details of the proposed merger and 
seeking your approval is being sent out on or around 26 June. 
During the year the Group continued to raise money for various 
charities in the countries in which our businesses operate. In the 
UK, donations totalling £233,800 were made including £150,000 
to Children in Need. In the Nordics, we continued our support 
for the Red Cross Water for Life project with donations totalling 
NOK 1.9 million.  
The Board, through its various committees, continues to ensure 
that the requisite controls are in place across the business and 
that the highest possible principles of corporate governance are 
adhered to. 
We can all reflect on what I believe has been a successful year 
for the Group and I would like to thank all our colleagues and 
congratulate the leadership team for their part in delivering this.  
I look forward to the exciting developments the year ahead will 
bring for the Group. 
 
 
John Allan 
Chairman 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
