 november 04
december
january 05
february
march
april
may
june
july
august
september
october 05
2005
04
James Barnes
Chief Executive
Our strategy is clear: to establish Dobbies as a leading homes
and gardens retailer in the UK.
We will differentiate ourselves by enhancing the ‘Dobbies
experience’, setting new standards via our store infrastructure,
our shopping environment and the wide range of related
products and services that deliver a real destination retail 
and leisure proposition. Dobbies Garden Centres Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
05
Trading
Although we have grown both sales and
profits, this has been a challenging year for
Dobbies, with the downturn in consumer
spending being a key determinant of like
store sales performance.
Total sales increased by 12.1% to £60.6
million driven by a full year contribution from
our store at Ayr (opened March 2004), a new
store at Stirling and a redeveloped store at
Ponteland, both of which opened for trade in
March last year. Like for like sales rose 1.5%
in the established store base with
restaurants performing extremely well at
+13.4% and continuing to act as a footfall
driver to all stores. Garden centre like for like
sales (excluding restaurants) saw sales
marginally lower at – 0.7%. Within this we
experienced sales growth of 2.2% in our
core gardening and aquatics offer, offset by
a 3.5% decline in plant sales, impacted 
by an early Easter and poor weather in April.
Although sales of our indoor living range
declined by a similar amount, furniture sales
grew in excess of 4%.
A particularly successful area was our
venture into farm foods and local produce
and, although early days, turnover in this
division reached £1.8 million. We currently
have four food halls, located in Edinburgh,
Ayr, Stirling and Ponteland, and it is a
concept we intend to invest in further.
Margin
With a weak sales environment our focus 
on margins and costs has been in part
rewarded, and I am pleased to report that
our gross profit margin has increased by
1.5% to 48.5%. A contribution from increased
buying margin and reduced shrinkage offset
a higher level of discount. We expect further
margin gains in the future. 
Although we experienced some significant
cost pressures, largely from increases in
business rates and energy prices, our 
stores did well to control costs. Total
operating profits rose 13.4% to £7.1 million.
Our operating margin increased to 11.7% of
sales (2004: 11.5%) despite absorbing a
planned increase in central overhead which
continues to grow as the business gears up
for further expansion. 
Investment
Our capital investment in the business
reached a record £21.6 million in the year.
This delivered a number of key projects,
including the new 55,000 sq. ft. store at
Stirling, which includes various horticulturally
related visitor attractions, including Scotland’s
largest maze. The Stirling store has traded
particularly well and underwrites our formula
for future expansion. Our store at Ponteland,
near Newcastle, has undergone a complete
redevelopment to a 50,000 sq.ft Garden World
format. New site acquisitions were made at
Sheffield and Cirencester.
We actively manage our property portfolio,
and our asset base was further strengthened
by the acquisition of the freehold interest and
buildings of our store at Perth for £4.1 million.
We closed our smallest garden centre at
Helensburgh in August in anticipation of
redevelopment, likely to be for alternative use.
In addition we spent £1.8 million enhancing
established stores and, with the growth in
demand for our catering offer, extended 
our restaurants at Perth, Milngavie, Aberdeen
and Dalgety Bay to provide additional covers.
Marketing
As our business expands geographically, 
so does our need to extend brand awareness.
To this end we have developed a new
seasonal television campaign that reinforces
our brand identity. At the same time we 
have recognised the need to drive immediate
footfall through our extensive local and 
event-driven promotional programmes.
Once again we have seen success at local
flower shows and charity events. This will
become even more important in the year
ahead and I would like to thank and give
encouragement to all the staff who help and
participate in raising our profile locally.
People
Looking to the future we continue to build our
management team both through internal
promotion and by bringing on board a range
of retail experience. Gordon Mackenzie joined
us as Director of Retail Operations in June
having 10 years’ experience with B&Q. 
His appointment was complemented by the
recruitment of a Shrinkage Manager and
Human Resources Manager at the turn of the
year. We have included a brief CV of each
member of our management board and a
small selection of our staff within the Annual
Report, demonstrating the level of knowledge
and experience we have within the business. 
I would like to thank all of our staff for the
effort and commitment they have made to 
the business under difficult trading conditions. 
Outlook
The prospects for the current financial year at
present look equally challenging to those of
the past year. However, we have a number 
of key advantages and opportunities that
continue to move the business forward,
notably our ability to: 
• Deliver margin improvements. We believe
the trend established this year should
continue. 
• Operate new stores that contribute to
operating profits in year one and deliver
economies of scale to the whole business
in the future.
• Innovate and change the mix of our
product offer that allows us to exploit 
new areas of growth and affords us a
spread of risk that perhaps didn’t exist 
in previous years.
We have two new stores to open this financial
year, at Cirencester in April and Milton Keynes
in October. In addition to Sheffield, we have
entered into conditional contracts to acquire
two other sites, subject to planning: at
Dunfermline and Lisburn, near Belfast. 
This pipeline of new stores should enable 
us to fulfil our strategic aim of increasing the
size of our portfolio, by adding two to three
new stores each year, and to grow both sales
and profits. 
Notwithstanding the short-term outlook we
remain excited and confident about our
prospects and our position in the garden
leisure industry.
James Barnes
Chief Executive
6 February 2006
