 2005 Overview
The year 2005 saw a further major
transformation of Huveaux in line 
with our stated objective of building 
a substantial, high-quality B2B
publishing and media group through
organic and acquisition-led growth. 
For the third consecutive year, we again
doubled our size after completing the
two major acquisitions of Epic and 
JBB Santé, thereby creating a more
balanced business with a broader
spread of revenues and proﬁts. 
We are also pleased to announce
another set of record results. Sales grew
92% to £27.7 million; pre-tax proﬁts
(before exceptional items) grew 74% 
to £4.3 million and earnings per share
(before exceptional items) grew 24% 
to 2.72 pence. Excluding acquisitions,
organic sales growth was 12.5%. Proﬁt
before tax (but after exceptional items)
was £2.1 million, the same as last year.  
In line with our progressive dividend
policy, the Board is recommending a
ﬁnal dividend of 1.1 pence per share
for 2005, an increase of 10% on the
prior year. 
Our growth and broader range of
operations have been achieved while
maintaining a strong balance sheet,
including the introduction of a modest
level of debt to optimise shareholder
returns. At the year-end, we had net
debt of £7.6 million and shareholders’
funds of £44.0 million.
Strategic Progress
The strength of our performance 
and achievements in 2005 clearly
demonstrate that we are delivering 
on our stated objective. We now have
three business divisions, each of which
is a market leader in a growing sector:
Political Division 
We are the market leader in the UK
and EU political B2B sector and have
achieved organic revenue growth in
excess of 15% in each of the past 
two years. We see continued growth
opportunities as we further develop 
our services and offerings in the
political sector.
Learning Division 
We are the UK market leader in 
e-learning and there are indications
that this market will see good growth
reﬂecting the signiﬁcant government
support for e-learning and the
increasing trend for training and
learning to include an e-learning
element. Overall, our Learning Division
achieved like-for-like sales growth of 
6% in 2005 which we intend to build
upon in 2006.
Healthcare Division 
We are the market leader in magazines
for Continuing Medical Education
(CME) in France which is becoming
mandatory in 2006. In addition, we
have a market-leading medical website
in France. In 2005, we achieved 23%
like-for-like organic sales growth but
we expect our much larger business 
to settle down to more modest growth 
in 2006.
Digital Media
A very important aspect to our business
is the growing demand in all our
markets for high-quality information
and services to be available and
delivered through online digital media.
Currently, digital media represents 
some 28% of the Group’s annualised
revenues. We will continue to invest 
more resources into this important area
in 2006 as well as exploit the necessary
skills and experience available to us
through the acquisition of Epic. We
expect online digital revenues to grow
in the future as more and more of our
customers recognise its beneﬁts.
Progress on Acquisitions 
Epic Group plc
Our recommended offer for the
strategic acquisition of Epic, the UK’s
market leader in bespoke e-learning
solutions, was declared unconditional
on 22 August 2005.
The planned integration and
restructuring programme, which
included a complete change in the
Board of Epic, has been successfully
completed, achieving a cost saving 
of £0.3 million per annum. The new
management team has bedded in well,
and the year ﬁnished with a good
performance in the ﬁnal quarter of
2005, including an outstanding month
for orders in November.
The move into e-learning products 
and the establishment of joint venture
initiatives within the Group is already
underway. Most notable are the
ventures involving Lonsdale’s revision
guides and JBB Santé’s medical
publications.
Les Editions Jean-Baptiste Baillière Santé
On 5 October 2005, Huveaux completed
the acquisition of JBB Santé, the market
leader in magazine publications for
CME in France.
The integration of JBB Santé with 
our existing French healthcare
publishing business, ATP-Egora, has
been successfully completed along 
with the planned cost reduction and
restructuring programmes. The result
has been a cost saving of €1.0 million
per annum, the targeted relaunch 
of certain key titles and a strong
performance in the ﬁnal quarter of 2005.
The outlook in 2006 for the Healthcare
Division in France is positive particularly
given the more competitive cost base
and the more dynamic management
team now in place. The anticipated
increase in revenues arising from the
introduction of compulsory CME, which
will require doctors to subscribe to
professional magazines such as those
published by JBB Santé, will begin once
the detailed requirements have been
ﬁnalised by the French Government.
These are expected in the second 
half of 2006.
Chairman’s Statement
“The year 2005 saw a further major transformation of
Huveaux in line with our stated objective of building 
a substantial, high-quality B2B publishing and media
group through organic and acquisition-led growth.”
04 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
11113_26468_p01-23Front.qxd  21/3/06  3:28 pm  Page 4 Board, Management and People
During the course of last year, we
continued the strengthening of our
Board and senior management to
reﬂect the enlarged and broader
operations of the Group.
Gerry Murray, who has made a
signiﬁcant contribution to Huveaux
since joining in May 2004, was
promoted to the newly-created post 
of Group Chief Executive in November
2005. This appointment will also enable
myself to dedicate more time to the
overall strategy and direction of the
Group’s future activities.
Dan O’Brien was appointed to the
Board as Finance Director and Michael
Arnaouti appointed as Company
Secretary and Director of Corporate
Services on 1 January 2006. Both have
a wealth of international experience 
in acquisitions, large PLC management
and good corporate governance practice.
We have also continued to strengthen
the operational management of all
three of our operating divisions. 
David Horne and Jean-Marie Simon
stepped down from the Board effective
from 31 December 2005 and 6 March
2006 respectively. The Board would like
to thank each of them for their hard
work and dedication to the business
during the past three years. We wish 
them both well in their future careers.
The Board would also like to thank our
management and staff for their hard
work and dedication in 2005 and for
their achievements in contributing to
the continuing success of Huveaux. 
2006 Outlook
It is still early in the year, but the 
results for January and February are
encouraging.
We have a sound, well-balanced
platform of businesses with market-
leading positions. This, together with
the planned development and
introduction of a number of key
products and initiatives in each of our
three divisions, gives us conﬁdence that
we can continue to build on our strong
performance and deliver sound organic
growth in 2006 and beyond.
We have a powerful management team
and a strong balance sheet and these
will assist us in pursuing our strategy 
of making further targeted acquisitions.
John P de Blocq van Kuffeler
Executive Chairman
6 March 2006
05 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
11113_26468_p01-23Front.qxd  22/3/06  11:55 am  Page 5
