 Introduction
I am delighted to present the ﬁrst 
Chief Executive’s Review for Huveaux.
This represents an important milestone
in the development of the Group into 
a larger, more complex but well-deﬁned
business. We have consolidated our
operations into three market-aligned
divisions: Political, Learning and
Healthcare, each with their own
focused management teams and
objectives. These divisions will be
introduced and described in more 
detail by their respective Managing
Directors later in this Report.
Huveaux now comprises a balanced
and cohesive group of businesses.
Revenues are more evenly spread across
the three divisions and geographically
we derive our income approximately as
to 60% in the UK and 40% in the EU,
on an annualised basis. We also have a
broad portfolio of high-quality products
and services across each market,
including print (magazines, directories,
newsletters or books), digital (websites,
monitoring, e-learning, databases),
seminars, conferences and events. 
Market and Operational Overview
2005 was a year for delivering on our
promises and we have done so. We
doubled our overall revenue base and
increased like-for-like revenues and
proﬁts in each of our three operating
divisions. In parallel, we also
successfully integrated two major
strategic acquisitions and created 
a strengthened, market-focused
management structure designed 
to facilitate our future expansion.
Political Division
The Political Division contributed
operating proﬁt, before exceptionals, 
of £1.6 million (2004: £1.3 million) on
revenues of £9.7 million (2004: £6.3
million) with organic revenue growth 
of 18% in 2005.
The political markets were dominated
by the UK general election in May
2005, which was a double-edged
sword as the political markets are
usually soft before and buoyant after
an election. With careful attention 
to the new information needs of our
customers following the election, we
delivered an overall 19.6% improvement
in like-for-like revenue from our UK
political business. This included
substantial proﬁt improvement from
our Data and Reference business,
including Dod’s Parliamentary
Companion, and our executive 
search business, Electus.
Particularly satisfying were the
establishment of the fortnightly
publication Whitehall and Westminster
World as the leading journal for senior
civil servants and the continued
advance of ePolitixPlus, our political
monitoring business. Both of these are
relatively new areas for us and offer 
a good opportunity for future growth.
The continued drive to improve and
develop our Brussels-based EU political
business, resulted in a strong
performance in 2005. Parliament
Magazine, which is dedicated to
political affairs in the European
Parliament and Commission, has now
ﬁrmly established itself as essential
reading within the Brussels political
community. We have recently launched
an EU political monitoring service in
Brussels, modelled on our successful 
UK ePolitixPlus service. We believe 
that the increasingly sophisticated
Brussels political market offers further
signiﬁcant opportunity for growth 
in the medium-term.
Learning Division
The Learning Division contributed
operating proﬁt, before exceptionals, 
of £2.5 million (2004: £1.8 million) on
revenues of £11.2 million (2004: £7.0
million) with organic revenue growth 
of 6%. 
Our Political Knowledge business –
providing seminars, conferences and
training in the political and government
sector – was, as expected, hindered 
by the UK election but still delivered 
a 12% improvement in like-for-like
revenue. We also continued to see
excellent progress in enrolment for our
Certiﬁcate for Public Service Delivery for
which we expect to see record intake
numbers in 2006.
In spite of reported static school
budgets in 2005, our Lonsdale
school revision guides business 
grew substantially, delivering a 23%
improvement in operating proﬁt with
another year of new title launches and
revenue growth. Due to the signiﬁcant
curriculum changes being introduced 
in 2006 in Sciences at Key Stage 4,
there are both challenges and potential
increased market share opportunities
available to us. Our development
Chief Executive’s Review
“2005 was a year for delivering on our promises and 
we have done so. We doubled our overall revenue 
base and increased like-for-like revenues and proﬁts 
in each of our three operating divisions.”
07 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Political 35% 
Learning 41% 
Healthcare 24% 
Revenue by Division 
For the year ended 31 December 2005 
2005 Operational Highlights 
• Doubled revenue base of the
Group from £14.4 million to
£27.7 million
• Delivered double digit organic
growth from existing operations 
• Achieved 24% EPS growth while
creating a highly scaleable
business platform 
• Created a market-focused group
and divisional management
structure aligned to our customer
relationships 
• Integrated two major acquisitions
and delivered expected signiﬁcant
cost savings
• Established a Healthcare Division
with the acquired market-leading
medical publications business in
France, JBB Santé
• Enlarged our Learning Division
with the acquired UK market
leader in e-learning, Epic  
11113_26468_p01-23Front.qxd  22/3/06  12:07 pm  Page 7 programme for the new curricula is well
advanced and we are conﬁdent in our
ability to deliver the new revision guides
in line with our high-quality market
reputation.
As indicated last year, Training Journal
is now being produced in London
alongside our other magazines and 
was relaunched during the year. The
remaining Fenman business has been
downsized, with new management
adopting a business model aligned to
market conditions and e-commerce
opportunities. Although it is only a
small part of our business, its progress
will continue to be carefully monitored. 
Epic, which became part of Huveaux in
late August 2005, has already become
a crucial part of the Learning Division. 
It had an outstanding month for orders
in November and it exceeded our
expectations for both revenues and
proﬁts in 2005. The business and
strategic objectives for Epic are
discussed further under ‘Acquisitions
and Integration Strategy’ below. 
Healthcare Division
Our newly established Healthcare
Division comprises JBB Santé, which
became part of Huveaux in early
October 2005 (see below), and 
ATP-Egora, both based in Paris. It also
includes, for the time being, our small
French-based political business. The
combined revenues of these businesses
in 2005 (for the periods owned) were
£6.8 million (2004: £1.1 million) and
operating proﬁts, before exceptionals,
were £1.4 million (2004: £0.2 million).
Like-for-like revenue growth in 2005
was 37% for the smaller business 
ATP-Egora. 
While the Healthcare advertising market
in France remained ﬂat during 2005,
more innovative web-based offerings
from ATP-Egora together with completion
of the planned €1.0 million cost saving
programme at JBB Santé before the
year-end, helped to produce a
signiﬁcant proﬁt contribution. Our
strategy in this business is to establish 
a number of new revenue sources in
addition to advertising, particularly 
in the area of Continuing Medical
Education (CME). 
Healthcare is the second largest media
market in France. The acquisition of 
JBB Santé has given us a substantial
presence in that market and its merger
with ATP-Egora gives us the opportunity
to modernise, reinvigorate and further
enhance the proﬁtability of the Division.
That programme is well underway. 
Acquisitions and Integration Strategy
During the year, Huveaux completed
two strategic acquisitions:
Epic
Epic is the leading e-learning provider
in the UK. It has a blue chip client base
both in the public and private sectors
and is renowned for its innovative
learning solutions. However, it has
historically restricted itself to sourcing
revenue solely from the bespoke market
with no recurring revenue stream and
very little retained intellectual property
value. From the outset, it has been our
intention to extend Epic’s skill set and
experience and expand its revenue base
by altering the business model and
building a portfolio of owned IP which
can deliver an additional and recurring
revenue stream over the longer term. 
In Epic, we have acquired a high
quality, highly-skilled business and
workforce and we will leverage that
strength to add value across a wider
range of online services. The skill base
there will also be crucial to us beyond
e-learning in the development of all our
online digital media products in the
future. Epic has given us a new digital
capability, conﬁdence and ambition
which we now intend to exploit across
the entire Huveaux Group. 
JBB Santé
With the acquisition of JBB Santé, we
have established a substantial foothold
in the second largest B2B media market
in France. It publishes the leading
weekly magazine for GPs as well as
several other magazines focusing on
clinical knowledge and the operation 
of medical practice.
All of these measures have already
been completed with the joint venture
now underway. We are intent on
reducing the proportion of total
revenue that comes from advertising.
New revenue streams from subscription
sales and medical learning initiatives
will become more important going
forward. 
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
08 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
UK 69%
EU 31%
Revenue by Geography
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Subscriptions 12%
Advertising 33%
Events 11%
E-learning 11%
Product Sales 33%
Revenue by Source
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Our strategy for Epic has
always been to:
• Create a Huveaux-owned product
portfolio combining Epic’s
innovative e-learning techniques
with our existing learning
content. These products will be
sold based on an annual user
licence model. Our ﬁrst chosen
areas are Leadership, Compliance
and Human Resources Legislation;
• Further develop the existing
bespoke business model to
increase the element of learning
consulting and to combine, where
opportunities exist, with our
other learning offerings to give
customers new and improved
blended learning solutions;
• Develop further Epic’s powerful
learning consultancy capability;
• Invest in the high-quality web
development capability at Epic
which has been underexploited 
to date; and
• Develop, through internal 
joint ventures, electronic versions
of our existing product where
they offer customers an extra
beneﬁt.
Our planned strategy for JBB Santé
from the outset has been very clear:
• Replace the existing senior
management with our own
management team;
• Achieve €1.0 million annualised
costs savings through a targeted
restructuring programme; 
• Integrate the business with our
existing healthcare operation,
ATP-Egora;
• Improve and relaunch all major
titles; and
• Develop new sources of revenue,
principally through new initiatives
in CME and including a joint
venture with Epic.
Books 25%
Magazines 40%
Digital 23%
Events & Confs 12%
Revenue by Product Type
For the year ended 31 December 2005
11113_26468_p01-23Front.qxd  21/3/06  3:28 pm  Page 8 Digital Media
Since the initial acquisition of Vacher
Dod in 2002, with its dodonline
subscription website, Huveaux has
continued to identify and grow its
digital capacity. The importance of 
online business offerings and the
capability to design, build and supply
digital services has been a key driver 
in Huveaux’s historic and future 
growth plans. Digital revenues already
account for 28% of the Group’s
annualised turnover.
Our objective is to provide customers 
in all our markets with the high-quality
content and services they require at the
time and in the formats they require,
whether through print, digital,
seminars, classroom activity, events or 
a combination of any of these delivery
formats. We have seen increasing
demand for online digital offerings 
and we expect this to continue. 
The acquisition of Parliamentary
Communications in mid-2004 brought
the prime UK political news and
information website ePolitix into the
Huveaux portfolio. This site is highly
regarded for its political news and
information and houses almost 400 MP
websites with the number increasing
monthly since the May 2005 election.
The political monitoring service
ePolitixPlus offers online bulletins
tailored to speciﬁc industries and client
needs. ePolitixPlus delivered revenue
growth in excess of 29% in 2005.
At ATP-Egora, we also have in place 
a market-leading website for healthcare
professionals in France and which
provides e-bulletins for customers on
proﬁled topics of interest. This business
grew 37% in 2005.
The acquisition of Epic, which has
increased Huveaux’s digital revenues
from £2.2 million to more than 
£11.0 million on an annualised basis,
represents a further important step in
cementing our online digital capabilities
and ambitions. Within the Huveaux
Group, the opportunity now exists to
build on this invaluable experience and
develop a wider range of digital
offerings to the business communities
we serve. It also provides the platform
to further develop our existing content
and knowledge resource through 
new methods of internet and electronic
delivery. From this, we expect to create
new proﬁtable and customer-led
revenue streams for the Group.
This year will see a further strengthening
of Huveaux’s digital capability and
offerings as the Company grows its
capacity and all divisions develop their
own market-facing initiatives in this
important strategic area. Huveaux will
embrace a programme of internal
development designed to offer our
customers an online digital facility
when and where they require it and
across all markets and geographies.
Management Focus
With the increased size and breadth 
of the Group’s operations, we have
established a management structure
which supports both current and future
growth. Increased responsibility has
been passed down the management
chain, overseen by the experienced
Huveaux Board. We have been
enthusiastic to undertake this as we
have been fortunate enough to inherit
local management talent with the
recently acquired businesses who are
committed to our growth strategy. 
We have also successfully attracted
additional sector management with
relevant expertise to help strengthen
our relatively young teams and deepen
our resources. 
The Executive Management Committee
has recently been introduced and is
chaired by myself. It also comprises 
the Finance Director, each Divisional
Managing Director, the central Heads of
Finance and Marketing & Development
and the Company Secretary. Its primary
objective is to review and monitor 
the actual operating and ﬁnancial
performance of the Group against Board
approved business plans and budgets.
Our philosophy is to have short chains
of command combined with tight
ﬁnancial control, enabling us to give
local management teams the maximum
tactical ﬂexibility required to achieve
their agreed objectives.
Each division is now headed by a
Divisional Managing Director supported
by a management team comprising the
leaders of each individual business
within that division. These teams are
responsible for running the day-to-day
operations of Huveaux. 
We have also instigated formal
management development programmes
across the Group targeted at nurturing
future management. One of our core
Company values is to ensure our
management team has a ﬁrst-hand
understanding of the needs of 
our customers.
Our People
This year’s achievements and signiﬁcant
progress could not have been made
without the enthusiasm, hard-work 
and commitment of all our staff. 
With our two acquisitions this year, 
Epic and JBB Santé, we have been
pleased to welcome new staff in both
the UK and France. I am delighted with
the way they have responded to the
challenge and opportunities presented
by change and by becoming part of the
Huveaux Group.
We have a wealth of talent and
experience at all levels across the 
Group and I would like to thank all
staff for their contributions in 2005. 
I look forward to leading another year
of exciting growth and development
across our businesses and am conﬁdent
that our management will lead the
teams to deliver another good
performance in line with our growth
objectives. 
Gerry Murray 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
09 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Conservative Leader David Cameron launches
the 2005 ePolitix ‘Charity Champions Awards.’
These highly regarded awards recognise the hard
work undertaken by politicians on behalf of
voluntary causes.
The BBC’s Andrew Marr accepts his award for
Political Journalist of the Year at the 2005 Public
Affairs News Awards. The awards are voted for 
by professionals in the public affairs industry.
Prime Minister Tony Blair speaking in Downing
Street congratulates Dods and The Parliamentary
Press Gallery on the student writing competition
'Write Now'. “I hope that this competition goes
from strength to strength and encourages more
young people to take an active interest in both
local and national political issues.”
11113_26468_p01-23Front.qxd  22/3/06  11:46 am  Page 9
