 Political
This market leader in the UK and EU
political B2B publishing sector serves
both the political and public affairs
communities of the UK and EU. 
It delivers information in the form 
of magazines, websites, monitoring
and reference books as well as
organising events, awards and
recruitment for market participants.
It offers comprehensive and quality
content which inﬂuences, informs
and educates, providing essential
information to all those interested 
in government, policy-making and
the decision-making process.
Learning 
A leading provider of resources 
to learning communities in the UK,
including e-learning solutions for
the public and private sector and
specialist publications for primary
and secondary schools and the
professional training market. The
division also runs seminars and
events for the political, public affairs
and training markets. This mixed
portfolio delivers top-quality
blended training solutions to 
customers.
Healthcare
One of the leading providers
of specialist B2B publications for 
the medical sector in France and
which boasts the market-leading
magazine titles for continuing
medical education in that market. 
It also offers a range of magazines,
specialist publications and a leading
website and online information
service for French doctors and
healthcare professionals. No other
media owner offers such a
comprehensive and high-quality
information portfolio in the French
healthcare market.
Huveaux at a Glance
We have built and acquired a quality portfolio of market-leading brands, products and
services across each of our selected growth markets. We serve the private and public sectors
through a combination of delivery media, including print (magazines, directories, newsletters
and books), online digital (websites, monitoring, e-learning and databases), seminars,
conferences and events. We provide indispensable information, reference materials and tools
which our customers need to carry out their work every day in the Political, Learning and
Healthcare arenas.
Our aim is to provide customers with what they need, when and in the form they need it. 
To this end, we combine our resources, skills, expertise and reputations to ensure that we 
are at the forefront of development and service and so better able to understand, react to 
and exploit the opportunities created by fast-changing technologies and increasing 
customer demands.
The Group currently employs some 450 people and operates in the UK, France and Belgium
through the following three divisions:
02 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Our Strategy
Huveaux is pursuing a strategy of proﬁtable growth through a combination of organic growth
and carefully targeted acquisitions. Our objective is to become a substantial, high-quality 
B2B publishing and media group delivering essential and intelligent information through 
all media across our selected growth markets. Our progress to date and strong performance
in 2005 demonstrate that we are on course to achieve our stated objective.
As Huveaux enters the next exciting stage in its development, we have consolidated 
our operations into three market-facing divisions and strengthened our management
teams at all levels. From this scaleable platform, we are better placed to improve the
strength of the individual businesses, provide localised expertise and deliver increased
operating efﬁciencies. 
11113_26468_p01-23Front.qxd  21/3/06  3:28 pm  Page 2
