 Chairman’s Statement
“Huveaux is now a sizeable business, 
delivering over 25% of its sales through
digital media, running some 500 training
courses and conferences, publishing 
16 magazines and newsletters and selling 
in excess of 5 million books a year.”
04  Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
2006 Overview
For the ﬁfth consecutive year since
Huveaux’s foundation, we have achieved
signiﬁcant strategic and ﬁnancial progress.
In 2006, sales grew 62% from £27.7
million to £45.0 million, while proﬁt
before tax, amortisation of goodwill and
exceptional items grew 43% from £4.2
million to £6.0 million. Proﬁts were driven
by the full year impact of acquisitions
made in 2005, the addition of the new
education businesses acquired during the
year and an impressive underlying margin
growth in the divisions. Normalised
earnings per share grew 17% to 
3.1 pence. 
In line with our progressive dividend 
policy, your Board is recommending a ﬁnal
dividend of 1.21 pence per share (2005:
1.1 pence), an increase of 10% on the
previous year.
“Acquire, improve, build and add”
With the emergence of internet
technologies, the media landscape 
has been transformed during the period
since Huveaux’s foundation. Nevertheless,
the Company has been able to deliver
consistent and improving ﬁnancial
performance over that period while
keeping pace with the fundamental
changes in its markets and investing 
for the future. 
Our four-part strategy has been clear 
from the outset: 
• Acquire a market position
• Improve the existing business
• Build innovative new revenue
opportunities in line with market changes,
principally in digital and events
• Add acquisitions to secure our 
market position
By pursuing and successfully executing on
this strategy, we have created a modern
B2B media group from scratch over the
past ﬁve years. Considerable progress has
again been made in 2006 in advancing
this strategy and further progress is planned
in 2007 (see opposite page). 
Huveaux has developed strong brands 
in market-leading positions, typically 
the number one or number two in 
our selected markets. Our customers
experience these brands across print and
digital media as well as events. Our major
brands have been strengthened with
acquisitions and new launches,
consolidating our market leadership 
in the Political, Education, Healthcare 
and Learning ﬁelds and producing new
revenue sources for the future.
Digital revenues grew 75% in 2006 and
now account for 26% of Group sales,
reﬂecting the importance we place on
delivering information and services online.
Our events business, largely developed
organically, is also expanding fast and 
now comprises 12% of Group sales. 
Our Vision
Huveaux is now a sizeable business,
delivering over 25% of its sales through
digital media, running some 500 training
courses and conferences, publishing
16 magazines and newsletters and selling
in excess of 5 million books a year. 
We have delivered consistent and
improving ﬁnancial results from our
market-leading brands. We have developed
those brands to produce new revenue
sources for the future in line with customer
demand for new digitally delivered
services. Our strategy remains the same;
our ambition strengthened. We are in
a strong position going forward.
The Board, Management and People
Timothy Benn and Christina Benn stepped
down from the Board in April 2006. 
I would like to thank them for their
invaluable contribution to the ﬁrst four
years of Huveaux’s development. 
Richard Flaye was appointed a non-
executive director in September and his
considerable experience in B2B publishing
is already proving to be a valuable asset 
to the Board.
We continue to build our senior
management teams in each of the
operating divisions and have recently
recruited an experienced Managing
Director to lead our newly formed 
Education Division. 
The Board would like to thank the
management and staff of Huveaux 
for their hard work and dedication in
achieving a series of challenging targets.  
Outlook
In 2006, we made great progress towards
our strategic objective of creating a
substantial B2B media group, while
continuing to deliver double-digit proﬁt
and EPS growth.
We have achieved this while also 
improving our products and services 
across the Group, by pursuing the
opportunities offered by digital
technologies and by continuing to
broaden our revenue streams.
Although it is still early in the year, we 
have made an encouraging start to 2007.
Our four divisions all have good market
positions, leaving us well placed to exploit
market opportunities, supplemented by
targeted acquisitions. The Board looks
forward to another year of strong
ﬁnancial performance and further
strategic progress.
John P de Blocq van Kuffeler 
Executive Chairman
5 March 2007
