 06 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 
Chief Executive’s Review 
“In 2006 we made great strides in our 
mission to create a truly 21st century 
B2B group with a highly diversiﬁed range 
of revenue sources. We have achieved this 
while continuing to deliver double digit 
proﬁt growth. ” 
Gerry Murray, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
2006 Performance Highlights 
• Substantial double-digit proﬁt and 
earnings per share growth 
• Signiﬁcant margin improvements in 
Political and Healthcare Divisions and 
in e-learning business 
• Record growth in UK political 
monitoring business and increased 
competitiveness through acquisition 
of Political Wizard and launch of 
new EU product offering 
• Successful launch of Civil Service 
Network website 
• Appointed ﬁrst government-approved 
Continuing Medical Education 
provider in France 
• Expansion of brieﬁngs and conference 
portfolio – we now organise over 500 
events annually 
• Major expansion of schools revision 
guide business with the acquisition 
of Letts and Leckie & Leckie – we are 
now the UK market leader in study 
aids and revision guides 
• Successful integration of two 
strategic acquisitions 
Introduction 
At a time when all media groups face 
fundamental challenges to their business 
models, we have once again delivered 
substantial double-digit growth in both 
proﬁts and earnings per share. We have 
achieved this while also improving our 
products and services across the board, 
pursuing the opportunities offered by 
digital technologies and continuing to 
broaden our revenue streams. Our ability 
to deliver results today, while laying the 
foundations for sustainable revenue and 
proﬁt growth in the future, means we are 
well placed to take advantage of the 
communications revolution taking place 
across our industry. 
Huveaux’s core objective is to help its 
customers drive and improve their own 
individual and organisational performance. 
We do this by amplifying and expanding 
the traditional B2B model to include 
e-learning, numerous web-based 
information and communication services 
and a substantial events business. We 
believe ﬁrmly that the expansion of digital 
services and events in our markets 
represents a signiﬁcant opportunity. 
Diversifying Revenue 
In 2006, we made further good progress 
towards our strategic objective of 
becoming a substantial B2B media group, 
with diversiﬁed revenue streams around 
each of our main brands and existing 
content. We have expanded our digital 
portfolio through acquisition and new 
product launches. In July 2006, we added 
a web-based service to our political 
monitoring business with the acquisition 
of Political Wizard. This has now been 
fully integrated into the Dods business, 
enabling us to offer a much wider range 
of services and price points to customers 
as part of a recently restructured 
monitoring operation. 
Elsewhere, we have developed a web 
portal for the civil service, The Civil Service 
Network, and are developing an online 
assessment tool for secondary schools. 
In France, we have signiﬁcantly enhanced 
our Egora.fr website and are incorporating 
an extensive searchable medical archive. 
We will shortly be enhancing it still further 
with the introduction of a management 
system that will enable GPs to source, 
monitor and control their Continuing 
Medical Education (CME) activities. Our 
ability to innovate, by applying a healthy 
mix of proven and cutting-edge digital 
technologies, is greatly assisted by 
our e-learning and web development 
capabilities at Epic. 
The expansion of our events business 
has also helped us to diversify our revenue 
streams away from print subscriptions 
and advertising in 2006. We now run 
a number of prestigious awards events, 
particularly in the political and government 
sector, and we were delighted to launch 
the inaugural Civil Service Awards for 
Excellence during the year. Elsewhere, 
we ran over 500 training courses and 
conferences in the year (compared to 330 
in 2005) and our government training 
unit, Political Knowledge, was again one 
of our best-performing businesses in 
2006. Learning events also form a crucial 
part of our development as a provider 
of CME in France. We are the ﬁrst CME 
supplier to have been approved by the 
French government and we are determined 
to leverage this position and reinforce 
our lead in this ﬁeld. 
These diversiﬁcation and brand extension 
initiatives are underpinned by the 
continued dominance of our traditional 
print products in their respective markets. 
Our two major UK publications, The 
House Magazine and Parliamentary 
Monitor, both showed healthy organic 
growth in 2006. In France, we relaunched 
our weekly publication for GPs, Panorama 
du Médecin, which ended the year with 
an increased market share in the highly 
competitive pharmaceutical advertising 
market. Our newspaper for UK government, 
Whitehall and Westminster World, 
continued to grow and is now established 
reading amongst UK civil servants.  Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006   07 
Right: Epic’s work with Virgin Atlantic Airways 
was shortlisted for and received a special mention 
in the category of “Excellence in the production of 
learning content” at the 2006 E-learning Awards 
28,000 
The number of downloads 
within the ﬁrst three months 
of Dods’ new political podcasts 
service being launched 
Above: The 30th anniversary of our ﬂagship 
title, The House Magazine, was celebrated at 
10 Downing Street 
Digital 26% 
Magazine Advertising 31% 
Magazine Subscriptions 9% 
Books 19% 
Products & Other 3% 
Events 12% 
Revenue Sources 
For the year ended 31 December 2006 
Learning 43% 
Healthcare 33% 
Political 24% 
Revenue by Division 
For the year ended 31 December 2006 
UK 62% 
EU 38% 
Revenue by Geography 
For the year ended 31 December 2006 
One of the highlights of last year was the 
acquisition of Letts and Leckie & Leckie, 
two companies with substantial positions 
in revision guide publishing for schools. 
Combined with our existing Lonsdale 
business, this acquisition makes us the 
clear market leader in the UK. In 2007, 
we will distribute over ﬁve million study 
aids and revision guide products. Huveaux 
has substantial ambitions in UK education. 
To this end, we have recently formed a 
dedicated Education Division to help focus 
and realise these ambitions. Our revision 
guides business will form the nucleus of 
this new division. 
Business Overview 
2006 has been a full and eventful 
year. At Group level, we have achieved 
substantial EPS and organic proﬁt growth, 
despite challenging market conditions. 
With the exception of our schools 
education business, we have improved 
margins across the Group and are well 
placed to expand in 2007 and beyond. 
Political Division 
£ million 2006 2005 
Turnover 10,578 9,721 
EBITDA* 2,483 1,800 
*A reconciliation between EBITDA and operating proﬁt is 
provided in Schedule A on page 57 
Our political business enjoyed a strong 
12 months performance with underlying 
organic sales growth for the year of 10% 
and, inﬂuenced particularly by a record 
number of new product launches, 18% in 
the second half. 2006 also saw the 30th 
anniversary of our ﬂagship publication, 
The House Magazine, and we are grateful 
to the Prime Minister for agreeing to 
host its birthday celebrations at 10 
Downing Street. 
In 2006, the strength and resilience of 
our political publishing business enabled 
us to grow our revenue across the board 
despite trading for the ﬁrst time in a post­
election environment in the UK. We also 
managed to produce a marked 
improvement in proﬁt and margin as 
digital and events-related revenue became 
a more signiﬁcant proportion of our 
overall income. 
Political advertising rose by 3% due to 
better than expected sales during the 
party conference season and a generally 
strong performance in the ﬁnal quarter 
of 2006. During the year, we launched 
several new awards events, including the 
highly successful Civil Service Awards 
for Excellence, alongside which we also 
launched The Civil Service Network, 
a portal for civil servants. 
Our Political Monitoring business was 
boosted by the acquisition of Political 
Wizard in July but also saw substantial 
organic growth from its existing 
operations. There is no doubt that the 
combination of the automated Wizard 
business with our existing bespoke 
offering has substantially improved our 
monitoring proposition and market 
position, leading to several signiﬁcant 
new client wins. In addition, we launched 
an EU version of Political Wizard, making 
us the only supplier of such a political 
monitoring service. 
In Europe, we forged a strong relationship 
with the Committee of the Regions and 
launched The Regional Review, a 
publication dealing exclusively with the 
funding of regional projects within the 
EU. Our French political business had a 
quiet year but showed improved proﬁts 
and margins year-on-year. 2007 is a 
double election year in France and we 
look forward to increased activity in this 
business in the next 12 months. 
Our Political Division, both in the UK and 
Europe, continues to grow from strength 
to strength.  Chief Executive’s
Review continued
08  Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Above: Epic has provided the skills, expertise 
and impetus to help drive our digital initiatives 
in all our divisions
500
The number of training courses
and conferences we organised
in 2006
The Learning Division included the best
performing unit in the Group with our
Political Knowledge business showing
organic sales growth in excess of 20%
year on year. This was largely driven by
expansion in our brieﬁngs and conference
business, a highly competitive area in
which we have built substantial expertise.
In 2007 we will be producing a number 
of new blended learning programmes 
for the Civil Service combining our 
e-learning expertise with established
classroom courses.
At Epic, and as expected, sales were
marginally lower than in 2005 as we
concentrated on margin improvement and
transition to higher quality earnings (as
well as supporting many digital initiatives
elsewhere in the Group). This planned
focus has largely been achieved by using
new software tools developed in-house
and concentrating on higher value
contracts. We have won several new
clients in retail and ﬁnancial services as
well as in the public sector. Epic maintains
its position as the foremost bespoke 
e-learning supplier in the UK and a vital
ingredient in Huveaux’s digital future.
Our established Fenman business, now
known as Epic Professional, responded
well to last year’s restructuring and
showed a substantial increase in proﬁts
driven by further cost reductions and
margin improvements. The future of this
business will be based on a number of
online and e-learning offerings; although
we no longer produce training videos,
previous content is being converted for
use through digital delivery.
Included within our Learning Division for
2006 was our education business, which
at the beginning of the year consisted
solely of Lonsdale. However, with the
complementary acquisition of Letts and
Leckie & Leckie in early September, we
ﬁnished the year as the leading supplier 
of study aids and revision guides in the
UK, with full product coverage across 
all subjects and stages of the school
curriculum. The acquired businesses have
now been successfully integrated with our
existing Lonsdale product range. Together,
they will form the nucleus of our newly
created Education Division, enabling us 
to focus on our planned expansion in this
sector. The Division will be led by Andy
Ware, who joins us in March 2007. 
Andy is an extremely experienced
educational publisher having held senior
positions at Pearson, the learning arm 
of the BBC and McGraw Hill.
Compared to the record performance 
in 2005, sales at Lonsdale fell by 8% in
2006. This disruption, which was caused
by curriculum changes in Key Stage 4
Science, had an adverse proﬁt impact 
on the business. While we successfully
produced all planned books to schedule,
they did not sell in the numbers expected.
We believe that this is mainly due to a
delayed decision-making issue within
school departments as they absorb the
extent of the new curriculum changes.
The Letts and Leckie & Leckie businesses
were not affected in the same way as
they are not so dependent on Key Stage 4
Science or on direct sales to schools. Both
Letts and Leckie & Leckie delivered good
performances ahead of our expectations
during our period of ownership in 2006.
UK schools education is now a very
important sector for Huveaux and we 
will make it a targeted area for expansion
in the future. We believe the sector is
evolving rapidly and that the balance of
power amongst suppliers will be subject
to fundamental change in the near future;
several of the major players are already
planning to exit the market to avoid the
challenges posed by digital content and
delivery. However, we believe that the
move to digital will work in our favour
due to the strength of our digital training
capabilities at Epic and because our
valuable revision and testing content is
easily converted into digital delivery. Our
ambition is to become a major player in
education and we believe the quality of
our existing revision guides business
provides an excellent platform for 
that expansion.
Huveaux and Education
• Huveaux is the leading supplier 
of revision guides and study aids in
the UK, across all subjects and key
stages of the school curriculum
• Schools education landscape 
set to change, driven by supplier
inﬂuence and digital encroachment
• Huveaux has ideal platform for 
further expansion
• Ambitions driven by organic growth,
digital opportunities and targeted
acquisitions
Learning Division
£ million 2006 2005
Turnover 19,516 11,224
EBITDA* 4,068 2,615
*A reconciliation between EBITDA and operating proﬁt is
provided in Schedule A on page 57
5 million
The number of study aids and
revision guides we will distribute
across the UK in 2007 Huveaux PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006   09
Above & Left: The successful relaunch of our 
two leading French medical titles, Panorama du
Médecin and Le Concours Médical, resulted in
increased market share for each of the magazines
Left: Egora.fr is the most visited medical website 
in France, dedicated to GPs and healthcare
professionals
No. 1
We are the leading provider of
Continuing Medical Education
to the French healthcare
community
In France, our Healthcare publishing
business faced challenging market
conditions in 2006. The market for
pharmaceutical advertising to GPs was
down 6% year on year but our income
from advertising held steady due to
increased market share at our leading
title, Panorama du Médecin, which was
relaunched early in the year. We also
managed to substantially increase our
proﬁts from this business in 2006 by
delivering signiﬁcant improvements in 
our margin, largely as a result of the
successful restructuring programme
undertaken in the second half of 2005. 
The growth opportunity in healthcare 
in France is based upon our becoming a
successful supplier of Continuing Medical
Education (CME). We achieved this goal
during 2006 when we became the ﬁrst
government-approved CME supplier
shortly after legislation was introduced.
We have already launched our ﬁrst
sponsored CME programme and we
expect to produce two further substantial
programmes in 2007.
Our digital healthcare operations
produced an excellent performance in 
the year and we will be expanding these
signiﬁcantly in 2007. Egora.fr is the most
visited medical website in France. It will be
relaunched this year with the addition of
a large, searchable medical archive which
will operate on a pay-per-view pricing
model and contain every article published
by us in our CME publications in the past
ﬁve years. Egora.fr will also have a
substantial part to play in our CME
strategy. Using technology developed by
our e-learning company Epic, we will be
launching a digital platform where GPs
can select, monitor and record their now
compulsory CME learning activities. This
will enhance the opportunity for Egora.fr
to increase sponsorship revenue going
forward. We are conﬁdent of our strong
position in the French Healthcare market
and believe that in the longer term we
will remain the leading CME supplier to
the French healthcare community.
Our People, Our Future
The passion of our people, together 
with their knowledge, motivation and
collaboration, is what gives them an
insight into our customers’ behaviour 
and changing needs. It is also what
inspires them to develop, innovate 
and deliver new and better solutions,
something we have seen in abundance
this year.  
Through the acquisitions we have made 
in 2006, we have welcomed many new
colleagues into the Group and we are
delighted by the positive energy, ideas
and performance they have generated. 
To them, and to all my colleagues in the
Group, I extend my thanks for their
contribution throughout the year. 
I believe we are very well placed now in
four major markets. We have a depth of
management talent and strong market
positions. Our ambition for expansion
remains undimmed.
Gerry Murray
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Healthcare Division
£ million 2006 2005
Turnover 14,934 6,791
EBITDA* 2,379 1,481
*A reconciliation between EBITDA and operating proﬁt is
provided in Schedule A on page 57
