 02			Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	&	 Accounts	 2010
Chairman’s Statement
2010 Overview
In	 last	 year’s	 Chairman’s	 statement,	I	 set	
out	 how	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	 Education	
Division	 had	 secured	 the	 business	 and	
aligned	 it	 with	 the	 changing	 economic	
conditions.	 While	 the	 general	 economic	
conditions	 improved	 in	 2010,	 specific	
market	 factors	 hit	 the	 Dods	 business,	
restricting	 the	 growth	 of	 the	 Group.
The	 UK	 General	 Election	 provided	
short-term	 opportunities	 which	 were	
exploited,	 but	 the	 new	 Coalition	
Government	 imposed	 cuts	 on	 the	
Public	 Sector	 that	 were	 both	 deeper	
and	 quicker	 than	 had	 been	 expected.	
Specifically,	 during	 the	 period	 in	 which	
the	 Government	 re-assessed	 the		
overall	 Civil	 Service	 training	 budget,	
there	 was	a	 virtual	 cessation	 of	 spend	
in	 this	 area	–	 resulting	 in	a	 vastly	
reduced	 performance	 in	 our	 public	
sector	 training	 businesses.
For	 the	whole	 Group,	 revenue	 declined	
from	 £25.3m	 to	 £17.7m,	 but	 this	 includes	
the	 Education	Division	 in	 2009	 and	 in	
the	 period	 up	 to	 its	 sale	 in	 March	 2010.	
On	a	 retained	 basis,	 the	 Group	
delivered	 revenues	 of	 £16.1m	 (2009:	
£17.3m).	 For	 the	whole	 Group,	 earnings	
before	 interest,	 tax,	 amortisation	 and	
non-trading	 items	 (EBITDA)	 was	 £1.9	
million	 (2009:	 £3.8	 million),	 while	 the	
retained	 business	 delivered	 EBITDA	 of	
£2.0m	 (2009:	 £2.5m).
Non-trading	 items	 amounted	 to	a	
total	 of	 £0.4m	 (2009:	 £0.2m),	 mainly	
arising	 from	 the	 one-off	 costs	 around	
the	 office	 move	 and	 some	 further	
restructuring	 within	 the	 business.
“Dods has been successfully transformed into a highly 
focused political communications business – with the Dods 
brand being synonymous with the values of the Group; 
political impartiality, professional integrity, accuracy and 
transparency.
2010 has been a mixed year. There has been strong growth  
in our digital subscriptions business – high value, high 
margin products – and increased activity following the UK 
General Election and the increase in new policy being 
generated by the Coalition Government. At the same time, 
the Public Sector cuts have resulted in reduced activity 
within our Government-facing portfolios, with our political 
training businesses being particularly badly hit. 
The strength of the Dods businesses is in the modern media 
mix of our revenues:
• 63% of Group revenue derives from Digital or Face-to-Face 
products
• 58% of Group revenue derives from “paid for” products
• Digital subscription revenue increased by 14% in 2010.
This sustainable and robust revenue profile, together with 
the opportunities created by the outsourcing of Civil Service 
functions as part of the “Big Society” policy, provides 
significant growth prospects for the future. 
The Board continues to be focused on maximising 
shareholder value – and recognises that this will be achieved 
by a combination of strong organic growth and, at the 
appropriate time, acquisitions within our core markets.” Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	&	 Accounts	 2010			03
A	 dividend	 of	 0.25	 pence	 per	 share		
was	 paid	 to	 shareholders	 on	 the		
11th	 January	 2011.	 The	 Directors	 do	
not	 propose	 to	 recommend	a	 final	
dividend	 for	 the	 year	 ending	 31	
December	 2010,	 but	 intends,	 as	 in	
2010,	 to	 declare	 an	 interim	 dividend	
following	 the	 announcement	 of	 the	
half-yearly	 results	 in	 September	 2011.	
Strategy
The	 strategy	 for	 the	 remaining	 Political	
Division	 was	 set	 out	 in	 2009	 and	 has	
continued	 to	 progress	 throughout	
2010.	 Overall,	 the	 proportion	 of	 the	
overall	 revenue	 that	 is	 attributable	 to	
Digital	 and	 Events	 has	 continued	 to	
increase	 and	 has	 reached	 63%	 in	 2010	
(2009:	 61%).	 The	 reduction	 in	 training	
has	 slightly	 dampened	 this	 movement	
–	 but	 the	 revenue	 attributable	 to	 Digital	
has	 reached	 27%	 (2009:	 24%),	 with	
digital	 revenue	 growing	 by	 14%	 and	
digital	 contribution	 by	 16%.	 Paid	 for	
revenue	 (in	 the	 form	 of	 subscriptions,	
delegates	 or	 copy	 sales)	 has	 increased	
to	 58%	 of	 Group	 revenue.
While	 the	 reduction	 in	 revenue	 in	 the	
latter	 part	 of	 the	 year	 in	 our	 political	
training	 businesses	 was	 disappointing,	
their	 strong	 market	 position	 has	 been	
further	 enhanced	 in	 the	 year	 and	
they	 are	 perfectly	 positioned	 to	 take	
advantage	 of	 the	 outsourcing	 policy	 for	
central	 government.
The	 rest	 of	 the	 Political	 business	 is	
now	a	 highly	 focused	 and	 efficient	
operation,	 and	 2010	 saw	a	 further	
increase	 in	 larger	 campaigns	 being		
run	 on	 behalf	 of	 its	 clients,	 and,	 in	
2011,	 the	Division	 will	 run	 its	 first	
“Dialogue”	 which	 allows	a	 number	
of	 clients	 to	 work	 together	 on	a	
particular	 lobbying	 topic.
The Board, Management  
and People
Following	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	
Education	 business	 and	 the	 hiatus	
caused	 by	 the	 approaches	 made	 by	
potential	 acquirers	 of	 the	 Group	 in	 the	
middle	 part	 of	 2010,	 we	 have	 taken	
action	 to	 strengthen	 your	 Board.	
I	 am	 delighted	 to	 welcome	 onto	 the	
Board	 Lord	 Adonis,	 Sir	 William	 Wells	
and	 Andrew	 Wilson.	 Lord	 Adonis,	
as	a	 former	 Cabinet	 Minister,	 brings	
his	 considerable	 political	 experience	
and	a	deep	 knowledge	 of	 the	
workings	 of	 the	 political	 markets	 to	
the	 Board.	 Both	 Sir	 William	 Wells	
and	 Andrew	 Wilson	 bring	 wider	
corporate	 experience	 as	 well	 as	 Sir	
William’s	 valuable	 experience	 within	
the	 National	 Health	 Service.	 There	 is	
no	 doubt	 that	 they	 bring	 fresh	 talents	
and	 perspectives	 which	 will	 assist	 in	
our	 efforts	 to	 deliver	 growth	 in	 profits	
and	 shareholder	 value.
I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 all	 of	 our	
management	 and	 staff	 for	 their	
continued	 efforts	 during	 another	
difficult	 year,	 and	 with	 the	 successful	
office	 move,	 which	 was	 completed	
towards	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year,	 following	
the	 end	 of	 the	 lease	 terms	 on	 our	
previous	 offices,	 which	 has	 allowed	
the	 consolidation	 of	 the	 London	
businesses	 into	 one	 office.	 Their	
continued	 effort	 and	 professionalism	
are	 central	 to	 the	 high	 standing	 of	 the	
products	 in	 our	 portfolio	 and	 the	 ability	
of	 Dods	 to	 compete	 strongly	 in	 its	
various	 markets.
	
Outlook
The	 uncertainty	 surrounding	 the	 final	
outcome	 of	 the	 central	 government	
outsourcing	 process	 makes	 it	 difficult	
to	 be	 certain	 of	 the	 longer-term	
trajectory	 of	 the	 civil	 service	 facing	
part	 of	 the	 business.	 We	 expect	
greater	 clarity	 in	 the	 near	 future.	 In	
the	 meantime,	 our	 digital	 information	
products,	 including	 the	 new	 launches,	
continue	 to	 deliver	 strong	 growth	 at	
good	 margins	 and	 this	 will	 continue	
throughout	 2011,	 as	 will	 the	 continuing	
trend	 for	 printed	 directories	 to	 migrate	
into	 digital	 subscriptions.
	
Dods	 remains	a	 robust,	 cash-generative	
business,	 with	 high	 quality,	 high	 margin	
digital	 and	 event	 products.	 The	 Board	 is	
confident	 that	 2011	 will	 show	 continued	
growth	 in	 the	 core	 business	 and	a	
strong	 overall	 result.
Kevin Hand
Non-Executive	 Chairman
1	 April	 2011
HM The Queen and Sir Gus O’Donnell  
at The Civil Service Awards
The Right Honourable Harriet Harman QC, 
MP at a Dods reception.
