 04			Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	&	 Accounts	 2010
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Business Overview
The	 results	 for	 the	 year	 include	 those	
of	 the	 Education	Division	 for	 the	 weeks	
before	 it	 was	 sold	 (and	 for	 the	whole	
year	 in	 the	 comparative	 period).	 For	
the	 majority	 of	 the	 year,	 the	 Group	
was	 focused	solely	 on	 the	 remaining	
Political	Division	 and	 is	 now	 firmly	
established	 as	a	 market-leading		
political	 communications	 business.
The	 Political	Division	 remains	 in	a	
strong	 position,	 despite	 the	 reduction	
in	 both	 revenue	 and	 EBITDA.	 Dods	
enjoys	 strong,	 market-leading	 brands	
and	a	 unique	 product	 portfolio	
and	 2010	 has	 shown	a	 continued	
strengthening	 of	 business	 relationships	
with	 our	 stakeholders	 and	 an	 increase	
in	 high-value	 deals.
Following the strong growth of the Political business in  
2009, the 2010 results demonstrate the Group’s resilience to 
market pressures.
While the Civil Service-facing activities were hit by the hiatus  
in public sector spending, the remainder of the business 
successfully harnessed the increased interest in the political 
markets, the increased amount of new legislation and the 
significant changes in MPs to show some notable successes.
The structure of the portfolio – and the increasing amount of 
high-margin, renewable digital revenue – continues to set  
Dods apart from its competitors.
An	 important	 development	 in	 the	 year	
for	 the	 long-term	 growth	 of	 the	
business	 has	 been	 the	 investment		
made	 in	 the	 IT	 infrastructure.	 This	
infrastructure	 underpins	 the	 operations	
of	 the	 Group	 and	 the	 business-critical	
development	 of	 digital	 products.	 The	
portfolio	 has	 largely	 been	 grown	 by	
acquisition	 and	 bolting	 together	
disparate	 systems.	 In	 2010	 we	 started	
the	 process	 of	 rationalizing	 the	 systems	
within	 the	 Group	 with	 the	 aim	 of	
creating	a	 uniform	 structure	 which	 will	
be	 both	 more	 resilient	 and	 also	 allow	
the	 agile	 development	 and	 launch	 of	
additional	 products	 in	 line	 with	
customer	 requirements.
This	 development	 included	 the	 creation	
of	 an	 improved	 web	 platform,	 but	 more	
importantly	 has	led	 to	 the	 creation	 and	
launch	 of	 Dods Legislation in	 2011, a	
unique	 product	 in	 the	 UK	 market	 which	
has	 been	 well	 received	 to	 date.
The	 UK	 General	 Election	 resulted	 in	a	
number	 of	 short-term	 opportunities		
for	 Dods,	 but	 more	 importantly	 drove	
increased	 interest	 in	 the	 political		
market	 and	a	 greater	 need	 for	
information.	 Results	 in	 our	 Parliament	
unit	 reflect	 this	 increase	 in	 activity.	
While	 the	 results	 in	 the	 Government	
unit	 were	 hit	 by	 the	 public	 sector	 cuts	
in	 the	 latter	 part	 of	 the	 year,	 the	 unit	
enjoyed	a	 particular	 highlight	 in	 the	
Civil Service Awards,	 where	 Dods	 was	 Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	&	 Accounts	 2010			05
honoured	 by	 the	 event	 being	 held	 at	
Buckingham	 Palace	 and	 hosted	 by	 the	
Queen	 and	 the	 Duke	 of	 Edinburgh.		
This	 was	a	 wonderful	 event	 and	 one	
that	 further	 cemented	 our	 relationship	
with	 the	 Cabinet	 Office	 and	 the	 senior	
Civil	 Service.
2011 Priorities
Following	a	 difficult	 year	 in	 2010,	 the	
focus	 of	 the	 Group	 is	 in	 maximising	
the	 potential	 of	 the	 various	 parts	 of	
the	 business.	 While	 there	 is	 uncertainty	
over	 the	 short-term	 in	 the	 training	
business,	 the	 strength	 of	 the	 portfolio	
remains	 the	 market-leading	 positions	
that	 the	 products	 enjoy.
While	 the	 training	 picture	 is	 expected	
to	 become	 clearer	 during	 the	 year,		
the	 remainder	 of	 the	 growth	 will	 again	
focus	 on	 digital	 products	 and	 the	
face-to-face	 events	–	 which	 together	
make	 up	 more	 than	 63%	 of	 the	
Group’s	 revenue.	 The	 investment	 in		
IT	 infrastructure	 in	 2010	 has	 moved		
the	 Group	 forward,	 but	 it	 is	 imperative	
that	 this	 momentum	 is	 maintained		
in	 2011	 and	 2012.	 This	 will	 then	 allow	
the	 development	 of	 additional		
revenue-generating	 products.
The	 remainder	 of	 the	 Group	 is	
expected	 to	 show	 good	 growth		
in	 2011	 and	a	 further	 consolidation		
of	 our	 unique	 position	 in	 the		
political	 market.
Political Division
£’000	 2010	 2009
Revenue	 16,110	 17,335
EBITDA*	 2,757	 3,445
*	A	 reconciliation	 between	 EBITDA	 and	 operating	
profit	 is	 provided	 in	 Schedule	 A.
The	 2010	 political	 landscape	 in	 the	 UK	
was	 transformed	 by	 the	 UK	 General	
Election.	 Following	a	 period	 of	 hiatus	
under	 the	 Labour	 Government.	 The	
new	 coalition	 Government	 re-energized	
the	 market.	 There	 was	a	 significant	
change	 in	 personnel	 within	 the	 House	
of	 Commons,	a	 new	 Cabinet	 and	
therefore	a	 real	 need	 for	 up	 to	 date	
information	 and	 information	tools.	
In	 the	 early	 part	 of	 the	 second	 half		
of	 the	 year,	 the	 new	 government	
announced	 public	 sector	 cuts	 which	
were	 both	a	 little	 deeper	 than	 had	
been	 expected	 and,	 more	 importantly	
for	 Dods,	 were	 implemented	 faster	
than	 forecast.	 This	 had	 two	 key		
effects.	 Firstly	 the	 spend	 on	 training	
within	 the	 Civil	 Service	 virtually	 dried	
up	 overnight	–	 only	 being	 released		
at	a	 lower	 level	 in	 the	 last	 couple	 of	
months	 of	 2010.	 Secondly,	 the	 large	
corporates	 doing	 business	 with	 the		
Civil	 Service	 were	 asked	 to	 provide	
material	 repayments	 to	 the	 Cabinet	
Office	 in	 order	 to	 continue	 to	 trade	
with	 them.	 This	 resulted	 in	a	 large	
number	 of	 our	 clients	 reconsidering	
The Deputy Prime Minister, The Right 
Honourable Nick Clegg, MP at Civil Service Live Malcolm Harbour, MEP at the MEP Awards 2010
Dods Monitoring website 06			Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	&	 Accounts	 2010
Chief Executive’s Business Review
continued
The growth of our digital 
revenue in 2010.
14%
their	 strategy	 for	 2011,	 and	 greatly	
reducing	 their	 spending	 in	 the	 back		
half	 of	 2010.
For	 Dods,	 the	 overall	 results	 show	a	
7%	 reduction	 in	 revenue	 and	a	 20%	
reduction	 in	 EBITDA.	 This	 reflects	 the	
significant	 downturn	 in	 our	 training	
business	 and	a	 smaller	 decrease	 in	
the	 remainder	 of	 the	 public	 sector	
businesses.	 The	 remainder	 of	 the	
portfolio	 performed	 better	–	 with		
the	 digital	 information	 products	
continuing	 to	 deliver	 strong	 double-
digit	 growth	 at	 high	 margins.
Highlights:
•	 Dods 	 businesses	 delivered	a	 small	
growth	 in	 revenue	 and	 flat	 EBITDA
•	 The 	 UK	 and	 EU	 political	 information	
&	 intelligence	 products	 grew	 revenue	
by	 15%	 and	 captured	 additional	
market	 share
•	 The 	 Dods	 digital	 products	 showed	
overall	 revenue	 growth	 of	 14%	–	
and	 delivered	 an	 overall	 contribution	
margin	 of	 45%
•	 The	 Dods	 “people”	 products	 (online	
and	 offline)	 grew	 revenue	 by	 12%	
•	 We	 remain	 the	 clear	 leader	 in	 EU	
political	 information	&	 intelligence	
and	 now	 have	a	 unique	 portfolio	
of	 products	 in	 the	 UK	 political	
information	&	 intelligence	 market
•	 Dods	 Legislation	 was	 launched	 in	
Q1	 2011	 and	 will	 add	 significant	
revenue	 to	 the	 digital	 products	 in	
2011
•	 The	 Civil	 Service Awards	 were	 held	
at	 Buckingham	 Palace	 and	 hosted	 by	
the	 Queen	 and	 the	 Duke	 of	
Edinburgh.
The	 Parliament	 unit	 was	 the	most	
affected	 by	 the	 UK	 General	 Election.	
The	 run	 up	 to	 the	 election	 saw	
something	 of	a	 hiatus	 as	 companies	
waited	 to	 spend	money 	with 	the 	new 	
Government.	 The House Magazine	
delivered	 revenue	 that	 was	 flat	 on	
2009	 which	 reflects	 the	 one-off	 benefit	
of	 the	 General	 Election	 mitigating	 the	
long-term	 downward	 trend	 in	 display	
advertising	 across	 all	 media.	 While	
Dods	 continues	 to	 be	 the	 leading	
supplier	 of	 fringe	 events	 at	 Party	
Conferences,	 delivering	 40	 such	 events	
(2009:	 43)	 the	 number	 of	 roundtable	
events	 fell	 as	 the	 slowdown	 before	 the	
Election	 was	 not	 matched	 by	 an	
increase	 after	 the	 Election	–	 this	 was	
offset	 by	 Briefings	 for	 new	MPs.	
Electus,	 our	 recruitment	 business,	
suffered	 from	 the	 continued	 weakness	
in	 the	 public	 affairs	 market	 and	 the	
reduced	 amount	 of	 recruitment	 within	
the	 public	 sector.
Our	 Government	 unit	 has	 shown	
significant	 increases	 in	 the	 past	 few	
years,	 but	 showed	a	 7%	 reduction	 in	
revenue	 in	 2010.	 While	 the	 first	 half	
of	 2010	 was	 in	 line	 with	 forecast,	 the	
second	 half	 showed	 an	 unexpected	
hiatus	 as	 the	 public	 sector	 cuts	 were	
announced	 and,	 more	 specifically,	 our	
larger	 customers	 faced	 demands	 for	
large	 repayments	 from	 the	 Cabinet	
Office.	 This	 resulted	 in	 these	 customers	
constraining	 their	 spending	 prior	 to	
assessing	 how	 they	 were	 intending	 to	
spend	 with	 the	 Civil	 Service	 for	 2011	
and	 beyond.	 Civil Service World	 was	
particularly	 badly	 affected	 by	 this	–	 with	
revenue	 significantly	 below	 2009	 levels.	
The	 increase	 in	 policy	 activity	 following	
the	 Election	 resulted	 in	 an	 increase	
in	 roundtable	 events,	 this	 area	 of	 the	
portfolio	 showing	 strong	 growth	 over	
2009.	 Civil Service Live	 in	 July	 was	
down	 14%	 in	 revenue	 due,	 in	 the	
main,	 to	 the	 removal	 of	 all	 public	 sector	
money.	 Nevertheless,	 the	 event	 was	
very	 well	 received,	 with	 appearances	
from	 all	 senior	 members	 of	 the	 new	
government,	 including	 the	 Prime	
Minister,	 the	 Deputy	 Prime	 Minister		
and	 the	 Chancellor.	 Due	 to	 the	
reduction	 in	 activity	 in	 this	 area	 in	 the	
latter	 half	 of	 the	 year,	 only	 one	 Civil 
Service Live Regional Event	 was	 held	
in	 2010,	 being	 in	 Northern	 Ireland	
in	 December	 (2009:	2	 events).	 The	
development	 of	 Civil Service Live 
Network, the	 social	 media	 site	 for	 the	
Civil	 Service,	 continued	 well	 in	 2010	
with	 revenue	 increasing	 by	 63%	 and	
reaching	 break	 even.	
The	 Information	 unit	 can	 be	 split	
between	 digital	 products	 and	
traditional	 directories.	 The	 latter	 was	
flat	 year	 on	 year,	 with	 the	 ongoing	
migration	 from	 print	 to	 digital	
subscriptions	 continuing	 strongly,		
but	 being	 offset,	 in	 2010,	 by	 the	
additional	 revenue	 generated	 by	 the	
Dods Guide to the General Election	
published	 in	 June.
The	 UK	 digital	 products	 showed		
very	 strong	 growth	 delivering	a	
combined	 revenue	 increase	 of	 13%		
and	a	 19%	 increase	 in	 contribution.	
Both	 UK Information & Intelligence	
and	 Dods People	 continued	 to	 grow	
significantly,	 and	 were	 aided	 by	 the	 Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	&	 Accounts	 2010			07
increasing	 need	 for	 information	
following	 the	 Election.	 Including	 the	
EU Information & Intelligence	 business,	
the	 products	 now	 contribute	 more	
than	 20%	 of	 Group	 revenue	 and	 nearly	
40%	 of	 Group	 contribution.		
The	 increase	 in	 Dods’	 market	 share	
will	 be	 enhanced	 further	 by	 the	 recent	
launch	 of	 Dods Legislation	 which	 will	
provide	 an	 additional	 and	 unique	
service	 to	 the	 customers.
The	 European	 unit	 was	 unaffected	 by	
either	 the	 UK	 Election	 or	 the	 resultant	
UK	 public	 sector	 cuts,	 but	 faced	a	
market	 where	 cuts	 were	 prevalent	
across	 all	 member	 States	 and	 where	
the	 debt	 crisis	 had	a	 real	 effect	 on	
business.	 Overall,	 therefore,	 the	 flat	
revenue	 and	 5%	 contribution	 growth	
was	 an	 encouraging	 sign	 of	 the	
strength	 of	 its	 position	 in	 the	 market.	
The	 transformation	 of	 this	 unit	 from	 its	
previous	 reliance	 on	 printed	 advertising	
into	a	 mirror	 of	 the	 UK	 businesses	 has	
continued	–	 with	 revenue	 from	 digital	
subscriptions	 and	 events	 increasing	
by	 19%	 and	 representing	 47%	 of	 the	
unit’s	 revenue	 in	 2010	 (2009:	 39%).
Parliament Magazine	 showed	a	
further	 5%	 reduction	 in	 advertising	
in	 the	 year,	 and	 all	 of	 the	 magazine	
products	 were	 11%	 down.	 This	 was	
offset	 by	 the	 continued	 strong	 growth	
of	 the	 EU Information & Intelligence	
service	 which	 grew	 by	 16%	 and	 is		
still	a	 unique	 product	 in	 the	 market.	
A	 strong	 focus	 in	 the	 year	 was	 the	
expansion	 of	 the	 European Events	
portfolio.	 This	 was	 achieved,	 with		
an	 increase	 in	 revenue	 of	 31%.
The	 Political	 Knowledge	 events	
entered	 2010	 on	 the	 back	 of	3	 years	
of	 exceptional	 growth	–	a	 trend	 that	
continued	 right	 up	 until	 the	 General	
Election.	 Following	 the	 Election,	 the	
Westminster Explained	 open	 courses	
hit	a	 brick	 wall,	 with	 departmental	
spending	 having	 been	 put	 on	 hold	–	
and	 this	 did	 not	 start	 to	 return	 until	
the	 last	 two	 months	 of	 the	 year.	
This	 area	 saw	 revenues	 fall	 by	 24%,	
which	 fell	 heavily	 to	 the	 bottom	 line.	
This	 area	 is	 the	 subject	 of	a	 new	
procurement	 process	 which	 is	 looking	
at	 the	 outsourcing	 of	 some	 or	 all	 of	
the	 training	 of	 the	 Civil	 Service.	 Dods	
is	actively	 pursuing	 this	 opportunity	
and	 believes	 that	 it	 is	 very	 well	
placed	 to	 succeed.	 While	 the	 scale	
of	 the	 opportunity	 has	 not	 yet	 been	
quantified,	 it	 represents	a	 material	
opportunity	 for	 the	 medium	 term.
The	 Westminster Briefing	 conferences	
had	a	 very	 quiet	 beginning	 to	 the	
year	 in	 the	 run	 up	 to	 the	 Election	 (and	
during	 Purdah),	 however	 the	 second	
half	 of	 the	 year	 delivered	 revenue	
growth	 of	 13%	 over	 2009	 due	 to	 the	
increased	 activity	 around	 the	 new	
policy	 announcements	 of	 the	 coalition	
government.	 This	 trend	 is	 expected	 to	
continue	 through	 2011.
We	 ran	 further	 Partnership	 Conferences	
with	 Civil Service World	 and	 House 
Magazine	–	 increasing	 revenue	 by	 4%.	
The	 annual	 events	 such	 as	 The Coming 
Year in Parliament, and	 Regulators 
Conference	 are	 now	 well-established	 in	
the	 political	 calendar,	 and	 we	 continue	
to	 develop	 successful	 new	 events	
that	 correspond	 to	 current	 topics.	 In	
2010	 we	 ran	 events	 including	 Building 
the Big Society	 and	 Improving Public 
Services through Collaboration.
2010	 was	 also	a	 quiet	 year	 in	 the	 French	
political	 markets	 with	 no	elections.		
Le Trombinoscope	 reported	a	 small	
fall	 in	 revenue	 from	 2009,	 which	 also	
reflects	 the	 continued	 weakness	 of	 the	
display	 advertising	 market.	
Following	 the	 restructuring	 of	 the	 UK	
Training	 unit,	 Fenman, in	 2009,	 the	
training	 products	 business	 continued	
at	 the	 reduced	 level.	 Training Journal	
also	 declined	 in	 2010,	 but	 with	a	
restructured	 team	 and	a	 new	 website,	
is	 looking	 to	 drive	 some	 growth	 in	 2011.
	
	
“The New Housing Stock” Party Conference Fringe Event The Right Honourable Ed Balls, MP
Revenue by Type
For	 the	 year	 ended	 	
31	 December	 2010
	 Magazine	 Advertising	 18%
	 Magazine	 Subscriptions	 3%
	 Directories	 12%
	 Digital	 27%
	 Events	 36%
	 Other	 4%
