 Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 2
Chairman’s Statement
Strategy
Since	 I	 joined	 the	 Group	 in	 2003,	 the	
transformation	 has	 been	 pronounced.	
Following	 the	 disposals	 in	 June	 2009	
this	has	been	accelerated.	At	that	
time,	 the	 Group	 set	 out	 its	 strategy	
as	 being	 to	 drive	 the	 organic	 growth,	
predominantly	 in	 Digital	 and	 Events,	
while	 assessing	 the	 market	 for	 targeted	
acquisitions	 where	 the	 availability	 of	
finance	 and	 opportunities	 combined.
This	 strategy	 has	 demonstrably	
produced	 significant	 results	 for	 Dods	
–	 with	 the	 proportion	 of	 the	 Group’s	
contribution	 coming	 from	 Digital	 and	
Events	 having	 reached	 68%	 in	 2011.	
2011	 has	 shown	 how	 this	 strategy	 has	
paid	 back	 –	 not	 initially	 in	 significant	
growth	 in	 the	 bottom	 line,	 but	 more	 in	 a	
significant	 strengthening	 of	 the	 market	
position	in	the	face	of	challenging	
market	 conditions.
The Board, Management  
and People
I	 am	 delighted	 to	 welcome	 onto	 the	
Board	 Henrietta	 Marsh,	 the	 nominated	
Director	 of	 ISIS.	 Henrietta	 has	 been	
involved	with	the	Group	since	its	
earliest	 days	 and	 brings	 a	 great	 deal	 of	
knowledge	 regarding	 the	 Group,	 the	
City	 and	 business	 in	 general.
While the adjusted results of 
the Group showed, overall, a 
flat trading result against 2010, the 
underlying changes within the Group 
were increasingly positive in the face 
of a very difficult market for a number 
of our products – and Dods moved 
into 2012 in a competitively stronger 
position than it had entered 2011. Dods 
successful participation in the winning 
consortium for the Civil Service Learning 
tender will add to this strength. In 
addition we hope to add the business of 
DeHavilland which is currently subject to 
an Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) review.
For the whole Group, revenue was  
£15.3m and earnings before interest,  
tax, amortisation and non-trading items 
(Adjusted EBITDA) was £1.9 million 
(2010: £1.9 million).
As disclosed in Schedule A (unaudited), 
non-trading items amounted to a total  
of £1.1m (2010: £0.4m), mainly arising 
from the one-off costs related to the 
acquisition of Politics Home (in July  
2011) and the potential acquisition of 
DeHavilland and some further 
restructuring within the business.
The Board has identified that growth  
must be enhanced by targeted additional 
acquisitions, which it believes represents 
the best use of shareholders’ funds at this 
time and, for this reason, does  
not intend to declare a dividend.
”
“ Also,	 joining	 the	 Board	 is	 Keith	 Sadler	 as	
Group	Finance 	Director. 	Keith 	has 	many	
years	 experience	 in	 the	 media	 sector	
with	 national	 and	 regional	 newspaper	
groups	 and,	 latterly,	 with	 business	 to	
business	publishing	and	events	and	
marketing	 services	 companies.
I	 would	 also	 like	 to	 express	 my	 thanks	
to	 our	 Finance	 Director	 Rupert	 Levy,	
who	 left	 the	 Group	 in	 April	 after	 four	
years.	 Rupert	 has	 been	 an	 integral	 part	
of	 the	 development	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 	
I	 wish	 him	 every	 success	 in	 the	 future.	
The	Group’s	management	and	staff	 	
have	been	at	the	centre	of	the	
development	of	the	company	and	
its	continued	transformation	into	a	
modern	business	to	business	media	
company.	 I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 them	
once	 again	 for	 their	 hard	 work,	 without	
which	 none	 of	 the	 developments	 would	
have	 been	 possible.
On	 the	 9	 March	 2012	 there	 was	 a	
serious	 electrical	 fire	 in	 our	 Dartmouth	
Street	 head	 office.	 I	 am	 glad	 to	 say	 that	
there	 were	 no	 injuries	 to	 anyone	 from	
any	 of	 the	 Companies	 in	 that	 building.	
Following	 this	 fire,	 the	 business	 had	 to	
relocate	 to	 temporary	 office	 space	 and	
a	 huge	 amount	 of	 effort	 was	 put	 in	 to	
ensure	 that	 there	 was	 no	 interruption	
to	 the	 business	 and	 no	 loss	 of	 revenue.	
That	 this	 was	 successfully	 achieved	 is	
highly	 commendable	 –	 and	 the	 efforts	
of	 all	 of	 the	 staff,	 most	 particularly	 of	
Andy	 Heather	 and	 Simon	 Thompson	
who	 led	 this	 work,	 deserves	 special	
mention.	 I	 am	 also	 happy	 to	 report	 that	
the	 Group	 was	 adequately	 provided	 for	
in	 terms	 of	 insurance	 –and	 so	 all	 of	 the	
increased	 costs	 of	 working,	 together	
with	 the	 renovation	 and	 repair	 works	
have	 been	 covered.
Year end
The	 period	 from	 September	 to	 	
December	 has	 traditionally	 seen	 the	
vast	 majority	 of	 the	 profits	 generated	
in	 the	 year,	 due	 to	 the	 natural	 political	
business	 cycle	 (Party	 Conferences,	 year-
end	 Awards	 events	 etc).	 The	 Board	
has	 considered	 this	 matter	 and	 has	
recently	 announced	 that	 the	 year	 end	
will	 be	 moved,	 with	 the	 next	 period	
ending	 on	 the	 31	 March	 2013	 and	
then	 annually	 from	 then	 on.	 The	 Board	
believes	 that	 this	 move	 will	 facilitate	 a	
more	 natural	 split	 between	 the	 first	 and	
second	 halves	 of	 the	 year.	 Dods	 will	 be	
producing	 interims	 for	 the	 six	 months	
ending	 30	 June	 2012	 and	 the	 Company	
will	 be	 publishing	 its	 annual	 audited	
accounts	for	the	15	month	period	
ending	 31	 March	 2013,	 on	 or	 before	 30	
September	 2013.	
Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 3
Outlook
Despite	the	confirmation	that	Dods	
is	 part	 of	 the	 winning	 tender	 for	 the	 	
Civil	Service	Learning	contract,	it	is	 	
still	not	completely	clear	how	the	
volumes	 from	 this	 contract	 will	 arise	 –	
and	 over	 what	 period.	 This	 will	 greatly	
influence	 the	 results	 for	 the	 current	
financial	 period.	 Nevertheless,	 what	 is	
clear	 is	 that	 the	 importance	 of	 Digital	
and	 Events	 will	 only	 increase	 and	 the	
strength	 of	 the	 Group	 will	 increase	 	
with	 it.
Dods	 will	 continue	 to	 be	 a	 robust,	
cash-generative	 business,	 and	 one	 that	
will	 continue	 to	 target	 market-leading	
positions	in	its	markets	and	strong	
relationships	 with	 all	 of	 its	 stakeholders.	
The	 Board	 is	 confident	 that	 15	 month	
period	 to	 31	 March	 2013	 will	 show	
continued	 growth	 in	 the	 core	 business	
and	 a	 strong	 overall	 result.
Kevin Hand
Chairman
25	 May	 2012
Ian Watmore, Civil Service Live 2011 House Awards 2011
