 Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 4
Chief Executive’s Business and Financial Review
Business Overview
Following	 the	 sale	 of	 the	 Education	
Division	 in	 2010,	 2011	 was	 the	 first	
full	 year	 where	 Dods	 was	 completely	
focused	 on	 its	 Political	 business.	 This	
has	 allowed	 the	 Group	 both	 to	 continue	
its	organic	development,	but	also	
commence	 targeted	 acquisitions.	 The	
first	 of	 these	 was	 Politics	 Home	 which	
was	 purchased	 in	 July	 2011,	 with	 all	 of	
the	 consideration	 deferred	 and	 based	
on	 future	 performance.
Politics	Home	has	accelerated	the	
development	 of	 our	 online	 parliamentary	
engagement	 offering,	 and	 complements	
The	 House	 magazine	 giving	 a	 new	 life	 to	
our	 engagement	 business.
Under	 the	 coalition	 government	 the	 need	
to	 engage	 with	 all	 three	 major	 political	
parties	 resulted	 in	 a	 record	 year	 for	 our	
Events	 business	 in	 our	 Parliament	 unit	 –	
with	 party	 conference	 fringe	 meetings	
being	 particularly	 successful.	
The	 lack	 of	 progress	 with	 the	 Civil	
Service	 Learning	 outsourcing	 was	
frustrating	and	had	a	detrimental	
The 2011 results once again 
show the Group’s resilience in 
the face of difficult market conditions 
– conditions that have led to a number 
of our competitors falling away.
Our UK Parliament and Brussels 
activities had a stronger year, and our 
Digital businesses continued to press 
ahead, while there was another hard year 
for the Civil Service-facing activities 
where the hiatus in spend continued.  
The participation in the winning tender 
for the Civil Service Learning budget sets 
this part of the business up strongly 
going into 2012.
The structure of the portfolio – and  
the increasing amount of high-margin, 
renewable digital revenue –  
continues to set Dods apart  
from its competitors.
”
“ Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 5
effect	 on	 profits.	 This	 has	 now	 been	
successfully	 completed	 and	 will	 have	
a	 long	 term	 beneficial	 effect	 on	 Dods	
financial	 position.
Our	 development	 of	 the	 IT	 infrastructure	
continued	 in	 2011	 –	 with	 the	
development	 of	 a	 new	 EU	 Monitoring	
platform	 being	 the	 main	 product	 launch	
in	 the	 year.	 This	 continued	 development	
will	 form	 the	 basis	 of	 a	 significant	 IT	
expenditure	 in	 2012	 which	 will	 lead	 to	
a	 new	 UK	 Monitoring	 platform.	 The	 IT	
strategy	 continues	 to	 be	 driven	 around	
the	 use	 of	 independent	 software	
products	 which	 can	 be	 integrated	 into	
a	 single	 structure,	 allowing	 complete	
flexibility	 across	 the	 data	 sets	 –	 enabling	
the	 agile	 development	 of	 products	 and	
completely	 integrated	 Group	 data.
	
2012 Priorities
The	clear	priority	within	the	Group	
remains	 our	 continued	 advance	 as	 the	
premier	political	intelligence	provider	
in	 Europe.	 Our	 double	 digit	 growth	
in	 digital	 subscriptions	 underpins	 our	
progress	in	this	sector.	Further	the	
resolution	 of	 the	 Civil	 Service	 Learning	
process	and	the	identification	and	
completion	 of	 targeted	 acquisitions	 will	
be	 at	 the	 forefront	 of	 our	 efforts	 in	 2012.
The	 IT	 development	 will	 be	 significant	 in	
the	 year	 –	 and	 the	 delivery	 of	 the	 2012,	
and	 most	 importantly	 the	 2013	 numbers	
will	 be	 dependent	 on	 the	 success	 of	 this	
project.	 The	 level	 of	 spend	 is	 material	
for	 a	 Company	 the	 size	 of	 Dods	 –	 and	
the	 control	 of	 this	 expenditure	 will	 be	 of	
paramount	 importance.
The	 2011	 public	 affairs	 landscape	 in	
the	UK	was	relatively	constant	and	
dominated	 by	 the	 government’s	 austerity	
and	debt	reduction	 programme.	 EU	
government	affairs	were	dominated	
by	 the	 ongoing	 Eurozone	 crisis	 while	 in	
France	 2011	 was	 a	 relatively	 quiet	 year	
running	 up	 to	 the	 2012	 Election.	
The	 predicted	 acceleration	 in	 the	
outsourcing	 of	 public	 services	 did	 not	
arise	 in	 the	 year.	 While	 this	 has	 now	
started	 in	 2012	 (with	 Dods	 being	 part	 of	
the	 winning	 tender	 for	 the	 Civil	 Service	
Learning	 outsourcing	 as	 an	 example),	
the	momentum	in	this	part	of	the	
market	 did	 not	 pick	 up	 until	 the	 very	
end	 of	 2011.	 While	 our	 products	 remain	
central	 to	 this	 market	 –	 and	 retain	 the	
support	 of	 the	 new	 leadership	 of	 the	
Civil	 Service	 following	 the	 retirement	 of	
Lord	 O’Donnell	 –	 2011	 showed	 a	 further	
23%	 fall	 in	 revenues	 from	 this	 area.
For	 Dods,	 the	 overall	 results	 show	 a	 5%	
reduction	 in	 revenue	 and	 a	 5%	 reduction	
in	 Adjusted	 EBITDA.	 This	 shows	 that	
there	 has	 been	 a	 significant	 amount	
of	 costs	 taken	 out	 of	 the	 business,	
mainly	from	headcount	following	a	
reorganisation	 of	 the	 editorial	 structures	
of	 the	 business.
The	 overall	 results	 also	 reflect	 a	 second	
year	of	reducing	revenue	from	our	
training	 business	 –	 by	 20%	 on	 2010	 –	
due	 to	 the	 delay	 of	 the	 tender	 process	
until	 the	 start	 of	 2012.
The	 remainder	 of	 the	 portfolio	
performed	 better	 –	 with	 the	 digital	
information	products	continuing	to	
deliver	 strong	 double-digit	 growth	 at	
high	 margins.
Manufacturing Burnley 2011 Write Now 2012 Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 6
Chief Executive’s Business and Financial Review 
continued
Dods	 People	 continued	 to	 grow,	 with	
revenue	 12%	 ahead	 of	 2010.
The	Government	unit	had	another	
very	hard	year	with	revenue	falling	
by	 23%.	 Following	 the	 public	 sector	
cuts,	 the	 forecast	 outsourcing	 of	 public	
sector	 services	 did	 not	 really	 start	 in	
2011.	 All	 aspects	 of	 the	 portfolio	 saw	
reductions	against	2010	with	the	
exception	 of	 Research,	 which	 was	 an	
area	 of	 strong	 growth	 in	 the	 year.	 As	
this	 portfolio	 develops,	 the	 bespoke	
research	 and	 other	 digital	 products	 will	
become	 an	 increasingly	 material	 part.	
In	 November	 we	 held	 the	 first	 Global	
Public	 Service	 Leaders	 Summit,	 hosted	
by	 Lord	 O’Donnell.	 This	 event	 hosted	
a	 number	 of	 the	 heads	 of	 Civil	 Services	
from	 around	 the	 world,	 who	 discussed	
best-practice	 in	 public	 sector	 delivery.	
This	 will	 now	 be	 an	 annual	 event	 and	
we	 are	 delighted	 that	 it	 will	 be	 hosted	 in	
Singapore	 in	 2012.
The	 European	 unit	 had	 a	 very	 strong	
year,	growing	revenue	by	9%	and	
contribution	 by	 29%.	 This	 growth	 was	
driven	 by	 the	 Parliament Magazine	 and	
the	 EU Information & Intelligence	 service.
The	 Euro	 crisis	 did	 affect	 the	 portfolio,	
in	 that	 the	 Regional Review	 and	 the	
Research Review	 both	 attract	 revenue	
Highlights:
•	 The 	 core	 Dods	 political	 businesses	
delivered	flat	revenue	but	a	8%	
growth	 in	 EBITDA.
•	 The 	 UK	 and	 EU	 political	 information	
&	 intelligence	 digital	 businesses	 grew	
revenue	by	22%	and	captured	
additional	 market	 share.
•	 The 	 Parliament	 Magazine	 grew	 by	
48%	 in	 the	 year	 despite	 the	 Euro	
crisis.
•	 Integration 	of	Politics	Home	into	
Dods’	 engagement	 products	 following	
acquisition.
•	 Launch 	 of	 the	 Global	 Public	 Service	
Leaders	 Summit	 aimed	 at	 the	 global	
leaders	 of	 the	 Civil	 Services,	 which	
will	 be	 held	 in	 Singapore	 in	 2012.
The	Parliament	unit	showed	good	
contribution	 growth	 on	 the	 back	 of	 a	
small	 growth	 in	 revenue.	 The	 House	
magazine,	 which	 had	 been	 boosted	
by	the	Election	in	2010,	fell	away	
considerably	 in	 the	 year.	 This	 reflects	 the	
long-term	 decline	 in	 display	 advertising	
and	 the	 increased	 move	 to	 Events.	 The	
latter	grew	revenue	by	76%,	most	
spectacularly	 growing	 the	 number	 of	
Fringe	 events	 from	 40	 in	 2010	 to	 72	
in	 2011.	 In	 addition,	 the	 creation	 of	
“Dialogues”	 which	 bring	 together	 a	
number	 of	 customers	 around	 a	 single	
topic	delivered	additional	roundtable	
and	 other	 events.	 The	 acquisition	 of	
Politics	 Home	 in	 July	 increased	 the	
penetration	of	our	digital	services	
into	 the	 Houses	 of	 Parliament	 and	 we	
merged	 Politics	 Home	 with	 ePolitix	
later	 in	 the	 year.	 The	 future	 of	 our	
engagement	 portfolio	 will	 be	 focused	
around	 the	 Events	 and	 the	 Politics	
Home	digital	products,	which	will	
develop	 further	 in	 2012.
The	Information	unit	can	be	split	
between	 digital	 products	 and	
traditional	 directories.	 The	 latter	 was	
down	year	on	year,	following	the	
election	 year	 editions	 in	 2011.	 While	
the	 Dods Parliamentary Companion	 is	
a	 strong	 brand,	 the	 future	 of	 our	
people	 information	 businesses	 is	 in	 	
the	 digital	 sphere.
The	UK	digital	products	continued	
to	 make	 very	 strong	 progress,	 which	
delivered	 a	 combined	 revenue	
increase	 of	 21%	 and	 a	 28%	 increase	
in	 contribution.	 The	 UK Information 
& Intelligence products	 showed	 both	
strong	renewal	rates	(approaching	
90%)	 as	 well	 as	 strong	 new	 business	
throughout	 the	 year.	 The	 integration	 of	
the	 DeHavilland	 business	 in	 2012	 will	
be	 key	 to	 the	 continued	 growth	 of	 this	
area	 and	 the	 development	 of	 a	 “best	
in	 class”	 service	 for	 our	 customers.	
PAN Awards 2011 House Magazine Lifetime Achievement Award from	 the	 regions	 –	 which	 has	 been	
drastically	 reduced.	 The	 combined	
revenues	 of	 these	 products	 reduced	
from	 £457k	 in	 2010	 to	 £165k	 in	 2011.
	
While	 the	 other	 magazines	 suffered,	
Parliament	 Magazine	 had	 a	 very	 strong	
year	 –	 48%	 ahead	 of	 2010,	 underlining	
the	 growing	 recognition	 of	 the	 brand	
as	 a	 key	 vehicle	 to	 engage	 with	 EU	
legislators.	 This	 was	 enhanced	 by	 the	
continued	 strong	 growth	 of	 the	 EU 
Information & Intelligence	 service	 which	
grew	by	22%,	maintained	a	90%	
renewal	 rate	 and	 is	 still	 a	 unique	 product	
in	 the	 market.	 The	 new	 platform	 has	
been	 rolled	 out	 to	 our	 customers	 and	
provides	 a	 sound	 base	 for	 continued	
development	 of	 the	 product.	 While	 our	
European Events	 portfolio	 was	 flat	 year	
on	 year,	 there	 is	 good	 momentum	 going	
into	 2012	 as	 we	 now	 provide	 better	
return	 on	 investment	 for	 our	 clients.
The	 Political	 Knowledge	 events	 entered	
2011	 looking	 forward	 to	 the	 unblocking	
of	 training	 spend	 in	 the	 Civil	 Service.	
This	 did	 not	 happen	 and	 the	 unit	 enters	
2012	 having	 won	 the	 training	
outsourcing	 tender	 with	 Capita	 PLC	 and	
the	 way	 forward	 clearer.
Westminster Explained	open	courses	
continued	 to	 struggle	 throughout	
the	 year	 as	 there	 was	 no	 freeing	 up	
of	 departmental	 spending.	 Revenues	
fell	 by	 a	 further	 30%	 –	 to	 little	 more	
than	 50%	 of	 the	 2009	 level.	 There	 is	
significant	 opportunity	 in	 this	 area	 now	
that	 the	 tender	 has	 been	 awarded,	
and	 the	 start	 of	 2012	 has	 been	 much	
more	 positive.	 The	 volumes,	 yields	 and	
process	 for	 the	 new	 post-tender	 era	 will	
become	 clear	 as	 we	 go	 through	 2012.
The	 Westminster Briefing	 conferences	
faced	 a	 difficult	 environment	 with	 tight	
budgets	across	the	markets.	In	the	
light	 of	 this,	 a	 reduction	 of	 only	 9%	
in	revenue	was	very	commendable.	
Towards	the	end	of	the	year,	we	
launched	 some	 larger	 conferences	 in	
partnership	 with	 the	 Government	 unit.	
These	 started	 slowly,	 but	 have	 strong	
momentum	going	into	2012	where	
they	 will	 contribute	 more	 significantly.
Dods	 (Group)	 PLC	 Report	 &	 Accounts	 2011 7
The	 impending	 French	 elections	 in	 2012	
resulted	 in	 2011	 being	 flat	 on	 2010.	
Going	 into	 2012,	 the	 business	 is	 focused	
on	 maximising	 the	 opportunities	
coming	 out	 of	 the	 Election	 –	 and	 this	
includes	 a	 new	 partnership	 with	 the	
Dods	European	unit	in	developing	
the	 Trombiniscope Newsletter	 into	 a	
monthly	 magazine.
Following	its	restructuring,	Training	
Journal	showed	a	10%	growth	in	
revenue	 on	 the	 back	 of	 an	 improved	
advertising	 performance	 and	 a	 more	
than	 doubling	 of	 revenue	 from	 Events.	
The	 products	 portfolio	 within	 Fenman	
showed	a	slight	decline	in	revenue	 	
but	 an	 increase	 in	 contribution	 due	 to	
cost	 savings.
Labour Party Conference 2011
