 17
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Sales growth by location of customer in main 
European countries
2012
2013
United 
Kingdom
France Germany Rest of
Europe
£22.0m
£21.1m
£20.9m
£19.4m
£30.3m
£25.5m
£62.3m
£64.5m
Development and 
performance of the business
The Group operates its business worldwide. 
Primary segmentation is by geography in 
three principal regions – Americas, Europe 
and Asia/Rest of World.
The Group has a number of subsidiary 
companies, including some that undertake 
product development and manufacturing and 
others that are sales and service channels. 
In addition, we are represented by a network 
of distributors across approximately 140 
countries. Our distributors typically have 
exclusive rights to sell our products in their 
designated geographic markets. 
Alongside the ‘Domino’ brand, which 
comprises approximately 90 per cent of 
total Group sales, we operate a number of 
specialist businesses selling under their own 
brands into particular areas of the market. 
Performance by geography
Europe
In Europe, the Group operates direct sales 
businesses in the UK, France, Germany, Benelux, 
Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and Sweden. Other 
territories are covered by distributors, most 
with exclusive rights to represent the Group 
in their respective country.
Western Europe is a more mature market 
for coding with a large established installed 
base of equipment, whereas many of the 
developing economies of Eastern Europe 
continue to experience capital investment and 
stronger growth. Economic conditions have 
been relatively weak in most parts of Europe 
in the past 12 months, although there are 
some signs that customers plan to increase 
capital investment activity in 2014. Legislation 
remains a key driver of investment among our 
customers and one of the current initiatives 
in Europe is in the pharmaceutical sector, the 
Falsified Medicines Directive (‘FMD’). FMD 
requires all drugs manufactured in Europe 
to be uniquely identified at pack level to 
enable authentication at point of prescription. 
This will require significant investment in 
coding and data management systems by the 
pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. We 
have developed solutions able to meet these 
requirements and believe our reputation and 
experience in delivering similar applications 
within the industry and other sectors positions 
us well to capitalise on the opportunity. 
In the context of our general growth strategy, 
our European goals are to achieve growth in 
volume of equipment sales year-on-year while 
increasing our aftermarket revenues at least 
in line with growth in the installed base 
of equipment. 
In 2013, equipment revenues from customers 
located in Europe increased by 8 per cent 
compared to 2012, with approximately 30 per 
cent of sales being made to the developing 
economies of Southern and Eastern Europe. 
Aftermarket revenues from customers 
located in Europe increased by 7 per cent. 
In addition to growing revenues in coding and 
marking applications (date codes, batch codes 
etc.), in the digital printing business, we made 
first sales of the N600i colour label press this 
year, installing seven systems for customers 
in Benelux, France, Germany and the UK. 
There has been a 0.6 percentage point 
reduction in gross profit margin overall in our 
subsidiaries located in Europe over the year. 
This is primarily a result of the investment we 
have made in production facilities and capacity 
in our digital print manufacturing operation 
in anticipation of growth in the volumes of 
presses we will sell in 2014 and beyond. 
Profitability of our European subsidiaries is 
influenced by the location of a number of 
our manufacturing sites which ship products 
worldwide from their European base. Profit 
share between manufacturers and sales 
businesses is in line with normal arm’s-length 
rules; regions such as Europe, where a 
significant proportion of our manufacturing 
is undertaken, enjoy higher profit margins 
as a result of including those profits made 
in European entities on inter-company 
sales of products made to subsidiary 
companies in other regions. In 2013, the 
total segment result in Europe, before one-
off exceptional costs, was £56.6 million, 
an increase of 9 per cent on prior year. 
Particular highlights in the European 
business this year were:
 w Strong growth in Germany, driven in part 
by the sale of systems to local OEM’s for 
export into Eastern Europe and Asia
 w First installations of the BK652 TIJ ink 
digital label press
 w Successful introduction of a high 
performance mineral oil free ink 
responding to the changing materials 
used in outer case coding.
Our key goals in Europe for 2014 include:
 w Growth in new equipment with particular 
emphasis on the pharmaceutical sector 
and FMD
 w Increase in sales of the Group’s latest 
i-Tech product range with ‘service 
free’ functionality
 w Increased penetration of the label 
printing market with the newly launched 
N610i colour ink jet digital press.  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
18
Americas
The Group has sales subsidiary operations in 
Canada, the USA and Mexico and sells 
through an extensive distribution network 
throughout Central and South America. 
The North American market is highly 
developed and contains many of the largest 
multinational manufacturing companies 
operating in the sectors we serve – food, 
beverage, pharmaceutical, etc. Market drivers 
include legislation and industry mandates. 
In particular, adoption of the Food Safety 
Modernisation Act in the USA in 2011 has 
increased demand for product traceability 
and authentication systems. 
Market conditions in North America have 
been more positive throughout 2013 
than those in Europe, with published 
average GDP growth rates indicating that 
consumption levels have increased. Our 
business tends to respond to improving 
GDP as manufacturers increase their 
output and consequently increase use of 
coding equipment and consumables. 
The position in Central and South America 
has been more mixed. Political, economic and 
fiscal issues have restricted trade in some 
countries and we have seen reduced 
investment among many customers.
Our strategy in North America is to focus on 
larger opportunities that allow us to build our 
infrastructure and increase our market 
coverage. Our investment in TEN Media, 
made in 2011, was one such opportunity. TEN 
Media was established to supply compliance 
systems to the US egg industry, meeting 
requirements to ensure safe supply chains for 
shell eggs sold in retail markets. TEN Media 
has not delivered the progress we anticipated 
but the investment was made based on the 
size of the opportunity and the exclusive right 
of supply we negotiated to help improve our 
position in this key market. 
We made good progress in sales in North 
America in 2013. Equipment revenues from 
customers located there increased by 12 per 
cent and aftermarket revenues by 6 per cent. 
Equipment revenues were bolstered by strong 
sales of our new i-Tech products coupled 
with first sales of the full colour digital press. 
Our strategy in Central and South America is 
to focus on supporting and developing our 
distributor network, enabling sales to larger 
multinational accounts where global 
relationships are important. We do not seek 
to compete for the very low price business 
that is prevalent in some countries. 
Sales in Central and South America in 2013 
were £11.0 million, 7 per cent below 2012. 
The main shortfall in sales was attributable to 
difficulties in Brazil and Argentina where weak 
economic performance and specific fiscal 
control measures affected performance. We 
remain committed to developing our sales in 
this region but our growth opportunities are 
being hampered by external factors and the 
low price environment that has developed as 
a result.
Profitability in our American subsidiaries is 
below levels achieved elsewhere in the Group. 
This primarily reflects the smaller 
manufacturing footprint of the Group in 
America compared to Europe and Asia, but in 
2013 also reflects additional investment we 
have made in new resources to support the 
digital print business. Gross profit margins 
improved by just under 2 per cent in the year. 
The Americas segment result in 2013, before 
one-off exceptional costs, was £4.5 million, in 
line with prior year.
Particular highlights in the American 
business this year were:
 w Strong growth in revenues in the USA
 w First sales of the N600i digital press
 w Progress with TEN Media was 
disappointing.
Our goals for 2014 include:
 w Further increase in penetration of i-Tech 
product range
 w Development of multinational account 
business 
 w Increasing sales of the new N610i digital 
label press.
Asia/Rest of the World (‘ROW’)
In recent years, Asia/ROW has been the 
fastest growing region for the Group. Our 
direct presence in China, India, Korea and the 
United Arab Emirates is complemented by 
highly competent distributors across all 
developing markets in Africa, the Middle East 
and South East Asia. We also operate through 
distributors in Australasia.
Coding and marking requirements continue 
to grow across the region, partially as a 
result of adoption of new legislation and 
standards and partially as a result of the 
growth in the ‘middle classes’ and hence 
consumption. GDP growth in most markets 
is running at mid to high single digits, a good 
indicator of potential for our business, and 
our customers have, by and large, maintained 
investment despite the more difficult 
conditions they have faced in export markets 
(largely Europe and North America). 
Development and performance of the business
continued
Sales growth by location of customer in main 
Americas countries
2012
2013
USA Rest of North
America
Central and South 
America
£53.9m
£47.2m
£18.2m
£17.6m
£11.9m
£11.0m 19
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
The largest markets in the region are China 
and India. These are also the Group’s top two 
markets for new equipment sales by volume. 
The competitive position in Asia in particular 
is different to other regions with more small 
local suppliers present. Customer retention 
rates (those customers who continue to buy 
consumables, spares and services from us 
after the original equipment sale) are lower in 
this region than elsewhere in the world and it 
is one of our priorities to win back customers 
and increase our aftermarket sales. 
Our strategy in Asia is to continue to expand 
our market coverage and further develop and 
grow capabilities in our sales channels. This is 
underpinned by our direct operations in 
China, India and Korea where we maintain 
market leading positions. We also operate an 
extensive network of highly experienced 
distributors, providing access to many of the 
world’s fastest growing markets. 
We have manufacturing operations near New 
Delhi in India serving the local market, and in 
Shanghai in China where we manufacture and 
supply printers and consumables for both the 
local market and the broader Asian region. 
During 2013 we opened a new support office 
in Singapore reinforcing our commitment to 
growing our sales in the region.
In 2013, our equipment sales to customers 
located in Asia/ROW increased by 6 per cent 
when compared to prior year and aftermarket 
sales increased by 9 per cent. Our business in 
China has grown its sales by 11 per cent, 
reflecting a return to a more stable economic 
environment after the volatility of 2012. The 
more fragmented competitor position in 
China in particular means there are a large 
number of smaller companies vying for 
business. This can and does, in some cases, 
have an impact on market prices for 
equipment and as a result we continue to see 
downward pressure on our average selling 
prices. Sales mix and price effects have 
reduced equipment gross margins in the 
region by approximately 3 percentage points 
when compared to 2012. This has had the 
effect of reducing gross profits by £2.1 million.
Profitability in our Asian subsidiaries reflects 
our strong market position and the benefits of 
local manufacturing profits. It also reflects the 
aggressive price environment and increasing 
cost of doing business in markets where 
annual wage settlements are typically in 
excess of 10 per cent. The net result for this 
segment of our business in 2013 was £13.5 
million, 2 per cent below prior year. 
Particular highlights in the Asian/
ROW business this year were:
 w Return to double digit growth in China
 w Success in the pharmaceutical sector as 
certain local markets adopted drug 
authentication legislation
 w Early success with the introduction of 
digital print products into Asian markets 
through our Graph-Tech business.
Our goals for 2014 include:
 w Introduction of the extended i-Tech CIJ 
product range
 w Further penetration of TTO, responding 
in particular to the growing use of 
flexible packaging
 w Development of digital print opportunities.
Operational performance
Group manufacturing strategy is 
summarised as ‘make to order, ship direct 
to customer’. This approach means we 
need an engaged supply chain with supplier 
partners undertaking a high degree of 
product integration. Our make to order 
philosophy enables us to offer short lead 
times and to respond to specific customer 
requirements despite supplying a very 
broad range of product variants. 
Our process starts with product design, 
developing products based on platforms 
that provide for common parts and ease 
of assembly. Our Group Sourcing function 
works closely with a relatively small but 
experienced supply base to ensure quality, 
flexibility and timeliness of supply alongside a 
constant programme of cost reduction. Our 
factory operations are responsible for order 
fulfilment and customer focused logistics. 
The Group has manufacturing operations in 
a number of locations in Europe, America 
and Asia/ROW. The principal sites are 
in Cambridge, UK, which is the main 
manufacturing hub for ink jet products; in 
Liverpool, UK and Gurnee, USA, which are 
our two main fluids manufacturing operations; 
in New Delhi, India and in Shanghai in 
China. We manufacture laser products in 
Hamburg, Germany, Print and Apply Label 
Machines in Malmo, Sweden and digital 
printing products in Egliswil, Switzerland.
Over the past 15 months we have invested 
£1.5 million in development of a new factory 
near New Delhi, India to support growth in 
our Indian business and, in September 2013, 
we took on an additional nearby facility 
creating increased space for manufacturing 
at our Cambridge site. To allow for future 
expansion, the Group has obtained planning 
permission for an extensive development 
and increase in space at its headquarters in 
Cambridge but at this stage no decision has 
been taken on implementation.
Sales growth by location of customer in main 
Asia/ROW countries
2012
2013
China India Rest 
of Asia
ME/Africa
£41.9m
£37.6m
£18.5m
£18.1m
£31.1m
£29.4m
£22.0m
£23.4m Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
20
During 2013 our operational priorities 
have included:
 w The introduction of new fluids and printers
 w Integration of our new digital printing 
businesses (Graph-Tech and PostJet) into 
the operational infrastructure
 w Planning and implementing additional plant 
capacity to support our growth plans
 w A number of business process excellence 
projects improving capability and 
responsiveness of our network.
During the year there was a major fire 
at a third party off-site storage facility 
which was holding significant inventory 
for our core product lines. We were 
able to immediately implement our pre-
prepared disaster recovery process which 
functioned well and allowed us to recover 
the situation with no significant disruption 
to our customers. Our people and suppliers 
all responded exceptionally well and the 
outcome helped reinforce the quality of 
our risk management processes. Losses 
were insured and recovered in full.
Our operational goals for 2014 include:
 w Technology transfer of our i-Tech products 
from our Cambridge operations to those in 
Delhi and Shanghai
 w Further investment in capacity for our 
digital printing business as we anticipate 
acceleration of growth in demand
 w Projects aimed at further improving our 
operational network productivity. 
Research and Development
The Group invests approximately 5 per cent 
of revenues in Research and Development 
each year. One of our key strategies and 
priorities is to maintain a strong, innovative 
product range which we aim to build upon 
through regular updates and improvements as 
well as new products. In addition to our 
printer range, we focus on developing new 
fluids with enhanced end user properties, 
responding to changing customer needs and 
other developments in packaging materials.
Product developments in 2013 included a new 
range of Thermal Transfer V-Series printers; a 
new, feature rich i-Tech CIJ printer, the 
A420i; the K600i monochrome digital press 
and the seven colour N610i digital label press. 
Fluids launched included a new yellow 
pigmented ink designed to provide durability 
and reliable coding onto dark substrates and a 
black UV ink for use in the digital print sector. 
We have also made progress with the roll-out 
of elements of our platform printer 
technologies. QuickStep is the user interface 
platform that we have designed to simplify 
use and improve operating efficiency and 
QuickDesign is a coding automation software 
platform supporting all printing technologies. 
These were introduced across a number of 
products in 2013 with more to follow in 2014. 
An area we have focused on in our Research 
and Development activities is sustainability. 
We continue to develop ink products 
based on safe materials that allow our 
customers to reduce waste and energy use. 
Improving ink reliability and extending shelf 
life means less waste and more efficient 
processes for our customers. This focus 
on sustainability carries through to our 
hardware. This year we have integrated 
a life cycle analysis tool in the design 
process to ensure systematic consideration 
of all aspects of the product’s life. 
We maintain an active programme 
of ‘technology watch’ and work 
with partners, often making small 
investments to explore new technologies 
applicable to coding and printing. 
Priorities in 2014 include:
 w Further investment in digital printing 
technology and product range extension
 w Continued development of the next 
generation CIJ printer range based on our 
common platform architecture
 w Development and launch of new 
technologies to further enhance our fluids 
portfolio including a broader range of UV 
inks for digital printing.
Acquisitions/New business areas
Developments in digital ink jet technology 
are creating opportunities for the Group to 
utilise its capabilities, expertise and global 
network in new areas of the market. One 
of the most exciting developments is the 
transition from traditional printing techniques 
to digital ink jet in a number of commercial 
and industrial printing markets. In response 
to this, and as a part of our growth plans, 
we are developing new products and adding 
sales and support capability to cover a 
number of ‘digital’ print applications. The 
most developed to date is that of full colour 
label printing. Label printing typically involves 
printing high quality images onto a variety 
of materials which are then converted into 
labels for application to packaged products 
during the production process. This is an 
application we consider to be adjacent to our 
core business today, but has the potential to 
overlap by merging the printing of fixed and 
variable data directly on to the label stock. 
Changes in consumer behaviour coupled with 
the constant need to improve cost efficiencies 
are creating a requirement for a greater 
variety of labels, shorter print runs and, in 
some cases, personalisation; all of which are 
among the Group’s core competences.
Digital label presses are increasingly 
being used by Printers to complement 
their traditional printing presses, enabling 
them to offer increased flexibility to their 
customers, the same product manufacturers 
that are primary customers of the Group. 
Our relationship with these manufacturers 
is helping establish our position as a 
strong and capable supplier of digital 
printing solutions with label printers.
The Group has been a supplier of 
monochrome printers to the label printing 
market for a number of years. In late 2012 
and subsequently in 2013 we introduced 
our first full colour label printers, the N600i 
and N610i digital presses. These N-Series 
presses along with the monochrome 
K-Series range were developed by Graph-
Tech, a business Domino has partnered 
with in product development for many 
Development and performance of the business
continued 21
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
years, culminating in the acquisition of the 
company by the Group in 2012 for a total 
initial consideration of £12.4 million. Graph-
Tech is based in Switzerland and is now the 
Group technology centre for digital printing, 
providing latest generation ink jet integration 
for the label market and a number of other 
emerging ink jet markets served via OEM’s. 
A capital investment of £1.6 million has been 
made during 2013 in a new demonstration 
and development facility for the digital 
print business in Cambridge. This facility 
will enable customers to see our digital 
presses in operation, run print samples 
and allow further development of the 
product range. We have also invested in 
manufacturing facilities in Switzerland, in 
additional sales and project management 
people in America and Europe and have 
added colour management and digital print 
expertise to our central UK based team.
Our plan for 2013 was to install 10 full colour 
presses in the first year. This has been 
achieved and there are further orders placed 
for installation during 2014. We have recently 
introduced a new variant, the N610i which 
includes a seven colour option (compared to 
four colour in the N600i), further extending 
the appeal and capability of the product.
A further area in which we are expanding our 
digital printing business is in the postal market. 
Postal operators are under pressure to 
reduce costs and improve efficiency through 
automation, including the use of coding 
alongside visual recognition sorting systems. In 
2012, the Group acquired PostJet Systems 
Limited, a UK based business with proven, 
market leading ink jet coding products. 
Our strategy in digital printing is to expand 
our core offer through products such as the 
K-Series monochrome digital printer and the 
PostJet range, increase penetration of the 
labelling market with the N-Series digital label 
press, and leverage our ink jet integration 
expertise with growth of new applications in 
package printing and other related areas.
Our key goal for 2014 is to sell and install 25 
full colour presses during the year. 
TEN Media
The Group made an investment of $50 million 
for a 15 per cent stake in TEN Media LLP 
(‘TEN’) in 2011. The business was established 
with the objective of selling coding based 
compliance systems to the US egg industry, 
meeting legislation backed requirements 
promoting disease prevention and safety in 
the supply chain. As a part of the investment, 
Domino secured exclusive rights to supply 
TEN with coding systems. The business was 
at an early stage of development when we 
made the first investment and despite good 
progress with the technology and successful 
implementation of a pilot system, the company 
has not yet commercialised its products and 
has indicated that it has insufficient funds to 
do so. As a minority shareholder, we have 
decided not to invest further, at least until 
commercialisation is proven. The management 
of TEN indicated early in 2013 that it intended 
to raise new capital but has not done so to 
date. In the absence of progress and with no 
certainty that progress can be made, we have 
taken the decision to write down the value of 
the investment in TEN to nil. This is reflected 
in our 2013 Income Statement. Despite this 
action, we retain shareholder rights and 
the exclusive supply arrangement between 
TEN and Domino remains in place should 
the business be able to make progress and 
commence a commercialisation programme. 
People
The Group employs over 2,400 people 
across the globe. Our aim is to provide a safe 
and engaging environment for all employees 
where they can fully develop to achieve 
their potential and share in our success. 
Our aim is to attract, develop, motivate and 
retain employees by providing a competitive 
package of rewards and benefits, monetary 
and non-monetary which promotes team 
working across functions and the Group. We 
conduct employment engagement surveys 
in most parts of the Group twice per year 
where we ask employees for feedback on 
how we are doing and to understand what 
is important to their working experience. 
Over the last 12 months the results 
have continued to indicate high levels of 
engagement and motivation among all staff. 
One of our largest centres for staff is in the 
UK where we were recognised recently with 
a Skills Investment Award by the Engineering 
Employers Federation (‘EEF’). We provide 
a range of on-the-job and formal training 
opportunities aimed at promoting and 
developing everyone in the Group. Our 
own web-based training system provides a 
common language, the Domino values, our 
culture and set of organisation goals and is 
fully accessible across the Group enabling 
Domino employees to achieve their full 
potential and contribute to Domino’s success.
Providing a safe working environment 
for all our employees is one of our major 
objectives (see KPI’s). In the past two 
years we have focused on best practice 
health and safety management systems 
and are pleased to note a decline in the 
number of accidents reported since 2011.
We are committed to equality and 
diversity in our workforce and in addition 
to employing people with a wide mix of 
ethnic and cultural backgrounds, we also 
have a good balance between genders.
Gender mix across the business is as follows:
Number of 
female staff
Number of 
male staff
Board 0 8
Senior 
management 3 4
Management 61 285
Rest of 
workforce 460 1,596
Total 524 1,893
