 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
4
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report further progress 
of the Group during 2013. Sales have 
increased by 8 per cent to £335.7 million, 
underlying pre-tax profits were £53.0 
million and net cash inflow from operating 
activities before tax was £54.9 million.
We have continued to invest in people, 
in particular expanding our capabilities 
in the digital printing business, and in our 
product range. Research and Development 
expenditure was increased to £19.5 
million and we successfully introduced 
a number of new products including 
the N-Series digital label press.
The performance of TEN Media has 
been a major disappointment to us. 
Delays in the business coupled with 
uncertainty about its future have led us 
Further progress and an increase in dividends.
to the view that our investment has been 
permanently impaired. This has been 
treated as a one-off cost in the year.
The strong balance sheet and cash 
generation of the Group has allowed us 
to sustain the progressive improvement in 
dividends. This year the Board is proposing 
a final dividend of 14.06 pence per share 
which when added to the interim dividend 
of 7.60 pence represents an increase of 
5 per cent for the year as a whole.
Over the course of the year the Board 
and its committees have addressed the 
corporate governance requirements arising 
from changes to regulations. In this report 
we present our first Strategic Report on 
the business and increased disclosures on 
matters affecting audit and remuneration.
Domino is a global 
business with 
operations in all regions 
of the world
Domino’s latest facility in Cambridge, UK for the  
Digital Printing commercial and technical operations.
Peter Byrom
Chairman 5
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Earlier this year Garry Havens announced 
his retirement from the Group and will 
step down from the Board in December 
2013. I would like to thank Garry for 
his contribution to the Group.
Phil Ruffles has announced that he does 
not intend to stand for re-election at 
the next Annual General Meeting on 19 
March 2014. Phil has served as a Non-
Executive Director for 11 years and I have 
appreciated his considerable contribution 
to the Group over this period.
Research and  
Development expenditure was 
increased to a new record 
level of £19.5 million and we 
successfully introduced a 
number of new products 
including the N-Series digital 
label press
Our recent order intake provides tentative 
signs that market conditions are improving. 
While we remain cautious about the prospects 
for a full recovery to historical levels of global 
GDP growth, we are optimistic that our 
investments in new products and capabilities 
coupled with emerging market opportunities 
will fuel stronger organic sales growth in 2014. 
We are continuing to invest in the business, 
improving our prospects for the future.
Peter Byrom
Chairman
11 December 2013 
