 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 6
CAPITALISING ON NEW OPPORTUNITIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S OVERVIEW
In 2014, we balanced 
progress in sales 
performance with 
investments to sustain 
longer-term growth, while 
delivering profit 
improvement. 
We increased underlying pre-tax profit 
(see note 3) by 9 per cent and at the same 
time continued to invest in core business 
capacity and in enhancing and growing our 
digital printing business. 
Market conditions varied as the year 
developed but they generally improved in 
most regions of the world, compared with 
the last two years. The year started well, 
with a wave of confidence in Europe as 
economic growth rates improved and the 
Eurozone crisis ended. Uncertainty about 
the Chinese economy receded and 
prospects for the broader Asian and North 
American markets were positive.
Against that backdrop, our order intake in 
the early months of the year was good, 
continuing the momentum from the final 
quarter of 2013. We saw growing 
customer confidence, culminating in a 
number of large project opportunities and 
successes for our sales teams. We 
reported sales growth at constant 
currency of 11 per cent in our interim 
results, with our strongest performance 
being in Europe.
However, as we entered our second half 
year, economic news was less positive in 
both Europe and parts of Asia. The 
deteriorating political situation in the 
Middle East and the tensions in Ukraine 
also affected customer confidence. 
Summer in the northern hemisphere once 
again proved a strong period for 
aftermarket sales but the return of general 
uncertainty slowed the intake of orders for 
new equipment. Sales growth in the 
second half year was 7 per cent, before the 
impact of exchange rate movements. 
Our core coding and marking business had 
a good year, with a number of large project 
wins for new equipment, successes in our 
key focus sectors of food, beverage, 
pharmaceutical and tobacco, and another 
year of strong aftermarket sales. I have 
been pleased with the performance of our 
European businesses, where revenue 
growth is well ahead of recent years, and 
with the USA and Canada, where we have 
maintained prior-year progress. In Asia, all 
subsidiaries delivered strong growth, 
although weakness in the Chinese 
economy in the second half of the year 
held back sales. In our interim results, we 
reported increased price pressures in 
China and other developing markets, and 
the potential for further deterioration in 
margins if prices continued to fall. However, 
pricing was relatively stable during the 
second half year. 
Aftermarket revenues remain the largest 
proportion of Group sales and during 2014 
we had a special focus on improving 
aftermarket retention rates, across all 
products and businesses. Our ‘win-back’ 
programme was successful, improving an 
already impressive retention rate and 
increasing sales as a result.
We made good progress in the digital 
printing business, where we have focused 
on growing sales of full-colour digital ink jet 
printing presses into the label sector. There 
are clear drivers for transitioning to digital 
printing technology in this sector and while 
the rate of change is difficult to predict, the 
opportunity is attracting attention from 
both customers and competitors. We 
recognised revenue on 19 N-Series digital 
presses in the year and received orders or 
commitments for a number more that we 
will realise during 2015. 
Full-colour printing is a new venture for the 
Group and while the applications and 
customer groups are adjacent to those for 
coding and marking, we have faced a 
considerable learning curve as we establish 
capability and capacity in the very 
demanding field of colour management. 
We are progressing well in that regard and 
in particular with the print quality and 
performance of our products, which is a 
testament to the hard work of many of our 
people as we develop our knowledge and 
skills. Feedback from customers has been 
very positive, confirming the economic 
gains and ultimate benefits to brand 
owners of using digital ink jet in their label 
printing business. The installed base of 
digital presses is growing and as our 
customers bring them up to full utilisation, 
we expect to see substantial growth in the 
fluids business.  STRATEGIC
REPORT
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 7
We had a successful year of new product 
introductions in 2014. Early in the year, we 
launched enhancements to our continuous 
ink jet, laser and thermal ink jet printer 
ranges, both in hardware and fluids. We 
complemented this with a portfolio of 
product launches in the spring, to coincide 
with the important InterPack exhibition in 
Dusseldorf, Germany. Finally, in September 
we launched the N610i seven-colour digital 
label press at LabelExpo in Chicago, and 
were pleased to make immediate sales at 
the show. 
We have continued to invest in 
production capacity and opened our 
new factory in India this year. Further 
investment is planned, with work on a new 
factory in China commencing during 2015. 
We are taking preliminary steps towards 
constructing a new factory and warehouse 
facility in the UK, on a site we have acquired 
next to our Group headquarters. We also 
made progress towards our goal of business 
excellence, making organisational changes 
to sharpen our focus on key process 
simplification and further improve 
customer service. 
There have been a number of changes in 
the management team around the Group in 
2014. We filled the role of General Manager 
in three of our largest businesses, China, 
India and the USA, through internal 
promotions. We also added a considerable 
number of people to our digital printing 
organisation, with many coming from the 
industry, helping to rapidly advance our skills 
and knowledge. At the end of the year, we 
were pleased to announce the promotion 
of Rachel Hurst, our Group Operations 
Director, to the Domino Printing Sciences 
plc Board. Rachel will now take full 
operational responsibility for our 
manufacturing, engineering, product 
management and marketing functions, and 
will lead the next stages of our business 
excellence programme.
There is no shortage of opportunity for 
our business to grow. The overall sales 
performance this year, in both the core 
business and new digital press products, 
gives me confidence in our ability to deliver 
medium-term sales increases at or above 
global GDP growth. As we look forward 
to 2015 and beyond, it is clear the digital 
printing business has great potential but 
requires significant investment. While I 
expect to see sales progression in 2015, 
progress in profit will be held back as we 
plan to invest further in research and 
development and in the broader sales and 
support organisation, helping to fuel 
future growth. 
Nigel Bond
Chief Executive Officer
15 December 2014
Q1 
Very strong equipment 
sales in Europe as customer 
confidence increased
Q2
Successful interpack 
exhibition where we 
launched our latest i-Tech 
products, the A520i 
continuous ink jet printer 
and the V230i thermal 
transfer overprinter
Q3
Launch of our 7 colour 
N610i digital label press at 
Label Expo in Chicago
Q4 
Capex investment in new 
capacity with the opening of 
the India factory, breaking 
ground for the new building 
in Bar Hill and plans for a 
new factory in China
YEAR IN REVIEW
