 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 4
FURTHER PROGRESS AND AN INCREASE IN DIVIDENDS
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Group has made good 
progress in growing sales, 
profits and cash during the 
year while continuing to 
develop new products and 
investing in further expanding 
our digital printing business.
Our business in Europe reported double-
digit sales growth in local terms, benefiting 
from more buoyant markets in the early 
part of the year. We also reported good 
growth in the Americas and Asia. Market 
conditions have been changeable and we 
have seen a more cautious attitude among 
customers in many markets over the 
second half of our year.
We are pleased with the success of 
our latest i-Tech product range, which 
provides customers with class-leading 
performance, while our research and 
development teams are busy working 
on further product innovations. The 
aftermarket business continues to grow 
in line with our expectations. 
Our latest full-colour digital label press has 
been well received by customers and we 
are seeing increasing adoption of digital 
printing technology among label converters. 
Activity levels among our sales teams, and 
the increase in sales of N-Series digital label 
presses this year, give us confidence in the 
potential for continued growth. 
Over the last year, we have committed 
capital to a number of expansion projects. 
We commissioned our new factory in 
India, purchased land and started ground-
work on a new factory in the UK, which 
will primarily serve the European and 
American markets, and approved the 
building of a new factory in China to 
meet our expansion plans in Asia. 
We have provided new and expanded 
demonstration and laboratory facilities 
for our digital printing business. 
Good progress has been made against 
our sustainability agenda and we were 
pleased that our determination to 
reduce our environmental impact was 
recognised with a fourth consecutive rating 
improvement from the Carbon Disclosure 
Project. We also remain a member of the 
FTSE4Good index. 
Earlier in the year, Philip Ruffles, who was a 
non-executive Director, and Garry Havens, 
an executive Director, both stepped down 
from the Board. I thank them for their 
contribution to the Group over many 
years. In November, we announced the 
appointment of two new Board members, 
Sucheta Govil and Rachel Hurst. Sucheta 
joins us as a non-executive Director and has 
a background of senior roles in marketing 
and significant experience in Asia. Rachel 
is the executive Director responsible for 
Group operations, including manufacturing, 
product marketing and engineering.
The Group’s global workforce is more than 
2,300 strong. I would like to thank them, our 
distribution partners, and our suppliers for 
their contribution to our continuing success.
Our balance sheet remains robust and our 
cash generation increased our year-end net 
cash position to £40.1 million. The Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 14.76 pence, 
making a total of 22.74 pence for the year 
as a whole, an increase of 5 per cent. STRATEGIC
REPORT
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 5
The Group has had a good year 
and delivered results in line with our 
expectations. We continue to invest in 
research and development and in growing 
the capability and capacity of our digital 
printing business. However, we remain 
cautious about 2015. As announced in our 
Interim Statement, the investments we are 
making, coupled with uncertain market 
conditions, mean we expect results in 2015 
to be at a broadly similar level to this year.
Our strong product range and our 
investments in developing our capabilities 
mean we remain optimistic about the 
Group’s longer-term prospects.
Peter Byrom
Chairman
15 December 2014
14.76
p
Final dividend
£40.1
m
Year-end net cash position
