 357
stores across the 
UK and Ireland
Chairman’s Statement
For us here at Domino’s Pizza in the UK and Ireland,
bigger seems to present us with more opportunities to
get better at what we do. As our store numbers grow,
so do our system-wide sales. In 2004, total sales from
all stores reached a record-setting £174.3 million, a
£32 million increase over 2003. And, keep in mind,
2003’s system-wide sales grew by £23 million after
breaking the then 2002’s record. Simply put, more
stores mean more sales. At the close of 2004 we 
celebrated the launch of our 357
th
store and our 
system is now bigger than those of our two nearest
competitors combined. We still foresee a time when
up to 1,000 Domino’s Pizza stores will be operating in
the UK and Ireland.
As the number of stores increases, the associated
costs per store are reduced. For example, consider our
National Advertising Fund (NAF) which finances our
marketing campaigns and is made up of contributions
from all stores. The NAF provides for the continuation
of our very successful relationship with The Simpsons
on Sky One as well as all of our TV advertisements and
campaigns in support of new product developments. In
2004 our National Advertising Fund grew to £7 million,
up from £5.7 million in 2003. When one considers that
the costs incurred in a nationwide advertising campaign
are the same whether there are ten or one hundred
or even one thousand stores, it’s easy to see that 
the returns and cost-effectiveness are going to be 
significantly improved with each new store that opens.
Our opportunities for future growth are more exciting
than ever. More residential property is being built all
over the country and in those new houses demand for,
and access to, in-home entertainment is still on the
rise. Demand for home-delivered pizza is following suit
as people seek to enjoy more time in their homes. A
quick look at the growth in our e-commerce business
is clear evidence that more people are logging on,
ordering a pizza and sitting down at home to enjoy 
as much leisure time there as possible.
Our e-commerce business is a success story in its own
right, generating £8.2m in sales during 2004, a 41%
increase over 2003. This success comes despite the
fact that our IT infrastructure, which we revamped 
in 2004, had spent a good part of the year under 
construction. The resulting work saw a new and
enhanced website and an improved interactive TV 
ordering platform on Sky Active, both aimed at making
our customers’ ordering experience more convenient,
enjoyable and much faster.
At Domino’s we benefit from a robust community of
franchise partners, whose ranks grew to 147 from 128
between 2003 and 2004. Many of these hard-working
people have become millionaires since joining our team
and their success has been earned the old-fashioned
way - through hard work and passion for their business,
as well as their adherence to Domino’s stringent quality
standards which benefit the whole system as well as
the individual. 
This year, I am delighted to welcome two significant
new appointments to our Board. Firstly, I should like
to welcome Lee Ginsberg who joined us as Finance
Director on 1 November 2004. Lee has extensive
experience in the leisure and retail industry and is 
a very positive addition to the Company’s strong 
senior management team. Also recently appointed is
John Hodson who joined us as Non-Executive Director
on 14 February 2005. John’s skills are certain to be an
excellent asset to the Company.
With heartfelt gratitude, I must also recognise two
accomplished men who have been instrumental in 
our success: Yoav Gottesman and Gerald Halpern.
Yoav has helped us navigate our path to success and
my brother Gerald has worked beside me for the past 
11 years, providing insight that helped to give our
business a strong foundation for growth. Yoav retired
from the Board in May 2004 and Gerry will be retiring
from our Board of Directors at the upcoming Annual
General Meeting.
In closing, I should like to say ‘thank you’ to everyone
in the Domino’s team for a job well done again this
past year. We couldn’t have reached the peaks we’ve
reached without the outstanding people in each of our
support departments and in each of our stores. And,
of course, we thank you, our shareholders, whose
confidence in us allows us to grow stronger each
year. It is you who provide us with the resources to
accomplish ever greater triumphs year after year and
who make it possible for us to raise the benchmark at
the start of each new year. We simply couldn’t do it
without you. We will work hard to earn your continued
confidence in 2005.
Colin Halpern
Chairman
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3
CORRDominos Colour sec a/w  30/3/05  16:06  Page 3
