 By all measures, 2005 was another outstanding year for Domino’s
Pizza. We opened 50 stores and are now more than 400 units strong.
Our system wide sales topped £200 million, breaking 2004’s record-
setting totals by more than £25 million. Though we have continued to
add new stores in record numbers, our long standing units have not
faltered, continuing their unbroken record of year on year sales growth.
Our e-commerce sales also saw dynamic growth in 2005 totalling
nearly £14 million – an increase of 69.5% over 2004. In other words -
nearly one million Domino’s Pizza orders went from “mouse to house”
in less than 30 minutes. The beauty of these e-commerce sales 
is that they do not require special facilities, dedicated delivery
systems or increased management costs. These web and interactive
TV orders come directly into the store in the same way as a phone
call does – only far less time-consuming and with 100% accuracy. 
What has fuelled this customer demand, which seems to grow 
so steadily year after year? At least some of the credit must go 
to our highly talented marketing team which has carefully gauged
consumer tastes and trends. Our marketing is paid for by our
stores, which contribute a portion of their sales directly to the
National Advertising Fund. As new stores are opened and our units
grow, so does the size of the fund. The cost of managing this fund
however remains fairly constant allowing more and more to be
spent on advertising which, in turn, drives sales. 
It is not enough, however, to look a year or two ahead when planning
the roadmap for long-term growth. Chief Executive Stephen Hemsley
and I look not only at today’s and tomorrow’s needs but also at the
company’s long-term requirements. This goes not only for planning
growth strategies, but also for strengthening and enhancing the
management team. Stephen, by example and guidance, has fashioned
and elevated Domino’s Pizza into a market leader. In addition, 
Chris Moore, formally our Sales and Marketing Director, has been 
promoted to the newly created position of Chief Operating Officer.
Chris has been with the company for more than 15 years and his
vision of the brand, his passion and his ability to achieve excellence
will be key in getting us to the 1,000 store mark. Chris has already
been instrumental in enticing a very skilled veteran from Domino’s in
the USA, Patricia Thomas, to head up our expanded Operations Team.
In addition to our strong executive team, we have also been
fortunate enough to attract an impressive team of non-executive
Directors whose guidance and assistance we value highly. As 
we begin 2006, we are pleased to welcome two non-executives,
Michael Shallow and Dianne Thompson. Michael joined our Board
on 5 January 2006 and brings with him years of experience in the
food and leisure industry and a wealth of large public-company
expertise. Dianne, who joined our Board on 22 February 2006 also
has wide plc experience together with the energy and drive to help
position Domino’s for the years ahead. Gerald Halpern, who retired
from the Board last year, will continue to serve as a Director of our
Republic of Ireland subsidiary. We thank him for his contribution
over many years.
Although I could continue to commend to you our talented, wise
and experienced Board of Directors and management team, our
energetic and entrepreneurial franchisees and our terrific product at
Domino’s Pizza - we know that our success would not be possible
without the continued support of our shareholders. It is because 
of you we have the means to build this company for many years 
to come. It is you who deserve the recognition for your loyalty 
and for the confidence you have placed in us. For that I thank you
most sincerely. 
Colin Halpern
Chairman
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT exceptional 
service
4 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
TELEPHONE ORDERING
Inside a busy Domino’s Pizza store
every second counts. 
Take the phones, for example. 
It’s our goal to answer the phone
within just two rings. The speed
and accuracy of our order-taking
makes a big impact on whether or
not we get to the customer on time.
Telephone orders still generate the
majority of our sales but customers
are also switching on to the benefits
of ordering online via
www.dominos.co.uk. Domino’s employs 8,200 team members across more than
400 stores in the UK and Ireland. It’s up to these diverse
and dedicated people to take care of our customers and
maintain the high standards that make us the No. 1 pizza
delivery company in the UK and Ireland.
10.4%
of all delivered pizzas sales in the UK 
came through e-commerce channels
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
IMPROVED DELIVERY TIMES
A major part of the success of
Domino’s is the focus on getting the
basics right time and time again.
We have a fanatical dedication to
delivering piping hot fresh food on
time every time. Of over 11 million
deliveries made last year 90% were
delivered on-time to our hungry
customers across UK and Ireland.
Our teams are continually looking
to improve the service to set new
standards in ‘out the door’ and
‘delivery’ times.
PEOPLE FIRST
When your business is about taking
care of customers, it’s vital to have
a team of motivated professionals
who understand why high standards
of pizza, service and image matter.
Without great people, we can’t
deliver.
Our training centre in Milton Keynes
runs over 50 courses every year to
help our franchisees and their
team members strengthen their
edge. We also value experience
and loyalty, and we work hard to
foster long-term service.
5
