 7
Chief executive’s report
It is with great pleasure that I present my ﬁrst
report as Chief Executive and I would like to  
open it by thanking the Board and shareholders
for their conﬁdence.
Domino’s Pizza is now a 500-store system which is accessible  
to 55% of UK and Irish households. Our franchisees and in store 
team members and employees in our three commissaries and 
headquarters, have worked with passion to reach this stage and I 
would like to convey my thanks to them at the start of this report. 
The strong performance of our stores against a backdrop of
tough comparatives is representative of two areas of focus
for your Company over the past year: increasingly innovative, 
targeted marketing and tangible improvements to customer
service standards. 
Whilst our 500
th
 store milestone was cause for celebration
across the company, we are mindful of the fact that Domino’s  
is still only halfway to its target of 1,000 stores. I am conﬁdent
that the combination of our talented people, high quality pizza
and market- leading service standards, will deliver against this 
target by 2017.
System Sales 
In 2007 system sales, which are the sales of all stores in the 
Domino’s system in the UK and Republic of Ireland, rose by  
23.4% (2006: 19.7%) to £296.3m (2006: £240.1m). Like-for-like 
sales in the 404 stores open for more than twelve months in both 
periods grew by 14.7% (2006: 9.7% in 357 stores), the highest 
percentage increase recorded since 2001. 
Product innovation
As I mentioned in my introduction, stores have delivered 
impressive sales results thanks, in part, to the effectiveness
of both centralised and localised marketing activity as well as
one of the wettest British summers. This programme was driven 
by a calendar of innovative product development which included 
the hugely popular Meateor pizza, a back-to-basics focus on the 
classic Pepperoni Passion and the rugby-themed Scrummy.
Given the stable central cost base of running the marketing fund, 
more of the franchisees’ contributions to our £15m National 
Advertising Fund were effectively spent on more national TV 
advertising volumes, targeted direct mail and intensive online 
promotion. Considerable effort has also been directed at price 
promotions which, whilst still communicating our reputation for 
premium quality pizza, offer great value to consumers.
Service excellence 
I can also attribute 2007’s sales performance to a measurable 
improvement in customer service standards. Domino’s is not just  
a pizza business, it’s a service business and we recognise that our 
ﬁnancial performance is driven by our service standards. These 
standards must be good enough to make customers talk about us 
and create the vital word of mouth recommendations that generate 
sales. In 2006, we began a programme of training and high value 
incentives designed to help stores improve on the time it takes
to get a customer’s pizza to the door – the single most important 
metric when it comes to evaluating our service standards. We did 
this by improving speed in the store, never on the road, as the 
safety of our team members remains of paramount importance. 
Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
Annual Report & Accounts
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 8
Innovation  
E-commerce continues to be our fastest-growing channel to 
market as well as one which enhances store-level proﬁtability 
through labour savings. In 2007, total sales via these platforms, 
which include online and SMS ordering, reached £32.2m (2006: 
£20.1m), an increase of 60.5%. In 2007, e-commerce accounted 
for 16% of our delivered pizzas sold in the UK (2006:13%) and 
generates a higher than average ticket value. The Irish service, 
which was launched in February 2007, is already delivering close
to 5% of delivered sales.
Last year was deﬁned by your Company’s push into digital 
multi-channel retail platforms. We now feature on 16 e-commerce 
platforms including the launch of SMS ordering in August 2007.
Food Cost Pressures
Unprecedented increases in the prices of raw materials since
the middle of 2007, in particular milk and wheat, had a signiﬁcant 
effect on both us and our franchisees. This was exacerbated by
our cheese supplier going into receivership and the consequential 
ending of our ﬁxed price contract. As a result, new supply 
arrangements saw the cost of cheese increasing by over 50%
over the course of the year. Wheat has also recently increased 
signiﬁcantly in price, but by less than the 100% we had feared
and is now ﬁxed for the remainder of the year. The outlook for 
pricing in 2008 looks more stable.
These increases in raw material prices have now been passed
on to our franchisees who have had time to reﬂect them in their 
menu prices. The new menu pricing which fully recovered all cost 
increases, saw increases average around 4%. This new pricing
has been accepted by customers as witnessed by the continued 
momentum in sales since November when prices ﬁrst increased.
Expansion
In 2007 we opened 50 new stores (2006: 46) and closed none 
(2006: two) bringing the year-end store count to 501 stores  
(2006: 451). Whilst we continue to experience some inconsistency 
in planning decisions, this did not signiﬁcantly hamper our expansion 
last year. The aim of many local authorities appears to be the 
regeneration of secondary retail space and this has worked in
our favour, with Domino’s being recognised as a responsible  
and attractive occupant of previously redundant units.
This successful expansion was the result of considerable
efforts, particularly in the fourth quarter, by our expanded  
business development team who have worked in close
conjunction with our existing franchisees to identify sites,
secure planning permission and build stores.
Over 4,300 applications to franchise were received in 2007 but
only 16 went on to be awarded franchises. Our rigorous interview 
process ensures that only the best candidates, with aspirations to 
franchise multiple stores, join our system.
It remains important to your Company that we increase the
number of stores operated by each franchisee so that they have
a viable, long-term business. However, we only allow franchisees 
with the highest standards to expand which in turn assures the 
quality growth of our system. As at 30 December 2007, we had 
144 franchisees (2006: 150), of whom 56 are single unit operators. 
Each franchisee has an average of 3.5 stores. (2006: 3.0 stores). 
This consolidation of the number of stores for each franchisee also 
means that we can manage our growing system more efﬁciently 
and further improve operational gearing.
During 2008, your Company will acquire freehold land for a new 
commissary and headquarters in Milton Keynes and construction is 
expected to complete towards the latter part of 2009. The project 
cost of £25m will be incurred over 2008 and 2009. The commissary 
in Penrith will also be expanded this year at a cost of £4m which 
will double the capacity of that facility. We will also need to expand 
the commissary operation in Naas to meet the increasing demand 
for Domino’s Pizza in Ireland. These developments, combined with 
the addition of a fourth commissary, in the UK, which we expect 
will be needed by 2012, will complete the infrastructure required 
for 1,000 stores.
Chief executive’s report contd.
Domino’s launched the UK’s ﬁrst ever 
SMS pizza order service in August. 
Over 2,000 users signed up for the 
service in just one month. Service
9
The improvement in customer service 
times helped drive the increase in the 
system sales during the year. Obsessi
10 We have a fanatical obsession with our 
‘out the door’ times in all 501 Domino’s 
stores. In 2007, 72% of all orders left 
our stores in under 15 minutes, our 
best achievement to date.
11
on 12
Store Image
Last year we commissioned a new store design to refresh the 
current image of the estate which was introduced seven years ago. 
We will now begin to roll-out the new image across the system. 
Recent store openings have already started to feature this new 
design and we envisage that up to 100 reﬁts for the older looking 
stores in the system will be implemented in 2008 with the rest of 
the estate being upgraded over the next few years. All such reﬁts 
are funded by the franchisees some of whom may use the facilities 
offered by our in-house leasing company.
The Market
The UK eating out market was estimated by Mintel to be worth 
£30bn in 2007. The home-delivered food market continues to grow 
at a fast pace and in 2007 was worth an estimated £1.5bn which
is a third more than it was just 5 years ago. The extent of current 
research by Mintel predicts that the market is expected to grow
at a compound rate of 7% a year over the next four years. Based 
on these estimates we are currently selling around one in seven
of all home delivered meals. The popularity of home delivered
food shows no signs of slowing down and lifestyle factors such
as longer working weeks, more dual income households, more 
in-home entertainment and more one person households work
in our favour.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Food Quality
We constantly review the quality of our ingredients and have 
pioneered pizza innovation within our market. Last year we
were pleased to complete the removal of both hydrogenated
fats and MSG (Monosodium Glutamate) from all products on
the menu in addition to our long-standing policy of not allowing
any GMO’s (Genetically Modiﬁed Organisms). Our ongoing review 
of ingredients serves to maintain quality standards whilst also 
identifying opportunities to improve the nutrient proﬁle of our food.
Environment
The new commissary in Milton Keynes is being designed to be 
certiﬁed to BREEAM excellence (Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method). A third of our truck ﬂeet, 
which deliver food to our stores, are already registered “Euro 5”, 
currently the highest standard in emissions control. It is anticipated 
that half the ﬂeet will be Euro 5 by the end of the current year and 
all trucks will be at this level by 2012. New fuel alternatives, such 
as biodiesel, are constantly being tested.
Currently 80% of our pizza boxes are made with recycled board 
and are 100% recyclable. Furthermore all invoices and statements 
are now sent to our franchisees electronically. Not only is this more 
efﬁcient but is importantly saving substantial paper and wastage in 
the process.
We continue to seek further ways in which our business can 
become more environmentally aware and are about to embark
on a study of the whole business to establish what opportunities 
we have for improvement.
Chief executive’s report contd.
Given the stable central cost base
of running the marketing fund, more 
of the franchisees’ contributions to 
our £15m national advertising fund 
were effectively spent on national 
TV advertising. 13
People
In stores, our franchisees today employ approximately 12,000 team 
members, a large and diverse group of people including some who 
require a short-term income and others looking for a long-term 
career. We rely upon these people to work with a fanatical focus  
on customer service and food quality without which we will lose 
the momentum required to fuel our growth.
Considerable effort continues to be directed at helping franchisees 
to keep pace with ever-changing employment legislation and at 
ensuring that their people beneﬁt from a hard-working environment 
which is still huge fun and very rewarding. We have bolstered the 
support provided to the stores with the appointment of a full-time 
franchisee HR consultant, nationwide seminars, telephone hotlines 
and web-based resources. Improvements to the scope and volume 
of training available to franchisees and in-store teams will serve to 
underline our reputation as a great place to work.
Charity
The phrase ‘Delivering More’ sums up our franchisees’ approach
to developing relationships with their local communities. It is
these local activities that build loyalty and sustain long term 
success. In 2007 our stores have made considerable strides in 
terms of their community relations efforts, driven in particular
by our ﬁrst full year of association with Special Olympics GB
and Special Olympics Ireland. Special Olympics is a major provider 
of sporting opportunities for people with a learning disability and 
provides equality of opportunity for all our athletes regardless of 
ability or degree of disability. The Company also organised and 
funded a number of events aimed at encouraging regional 
participation in Special Olympics activities and promoted the
charity on boxes and menus.
Current Trading and Outlook 
Trading in the ﬁrst six weeks of 2008 has got off to an strong start 
with like-for-like sales up 11.0% (2007: 14.3%). This is particularly 
encouraging given the strong comparatives of last year. E-commerce 
has continued to show robust growth with an increase of 90.6% in 
the same period (2007: 36.2%). E-commerce in the ﬁrst six weeks 
accounted for 21% of all UK delivered sales.
Our store opening programme is looking more encouraging than
at the same stage last year. We have more sites in the pipeline 
with planning than at the same time last year and this gives us 
optimism at this early stage that we are on track to once again 
achieve our target of 50 new store openings this year.
Cash ﬂows remains strong and we have the debt facilities in
place to secure the expansion of our existing commissary in 
Penrith and the investment in our new commissary in Milton 
Keynes. Accordingly it is the Directors’ intention to continue to 
return surplus cash to shareholders by further share buybacks
and dividends.
Your Company is well positioned for another year of strong growth.
Chris Moore
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Domino’s received the silver 
award at the British Franchisee 
Association’s 2007 ‘Franchisor  
of the Year Awards’. 
Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
Annual Report & Accounts
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 Quality
14 Creating great tasting, piping hot pizza time 
after time relies on a team of highly skilled 
people. All our in-store teams are trained in the 
art of making great pizzas that meet individual 
customers’ requirements.
15
