 6
Executive chairman’s statement
As your newly appointed Chairman, may I open 
my report by congratulating Chris Moore on his 
appointment as Chief Executive on 31 December 2007. 
Chris and I have worked together for almost ten years 
and during that time he has had, at one time or 
another, responsibility for almost every area of the 
business. A more qualiﬁed and able “new” Chief 
Executive would be hard to imagine! I therefore 
personally wish him every success in leading us 
toward and hopefully beyond, 1,000 stores.
In 2007, Domino’s Pizza recorded another year of excellent results 
with the opening of 50 new stores and exceptional like-for-like 
sales growth. The Company leveraged its relatively ﬁxed cost
base to generate record proﬁts and, with strong operating cash 
ﬂow and very little capital required by the business, we continued 
our programme of returning surplus cash to shareholders by way
of share buybacks and record dividends.
As I know only too well, this can only be achieved with a great 
team of people behind you. Domino’s Pizza is a rather unique 
business, being almost entirely franchised which means that we 
have a small central team, currently 325, supporting a much larger 
group of franchisees and team members in the stores, currently 
numbering 12,000. One of the huge beneﬁts of franchising is that 
the stores are run by local entrepreneurs who know their local 
market, employ local people and become part of the communities 
in which they operate. 
In a business structured in the way we have chosen, it is equally 
important that we in the centre ensure that we deliver the services 
that are our responsibility to the highest standards. One of the
key functions is the manufacture and distribution of all the food 
items used in our stores. The speciﬁcation we have set ourselves 
is extremely demanding. We deliver fresh food to every one of  
our stores three times a week, at times when the stores are not 
operating. This is a signiﬁcant logistical effort for which we need 
the best facilities and systems. We have therefore recently 
embarked on a major capital expenditure programme that will see 
the doubling in size of our Penrith commissary and the construction 
of a new state-of-the-art commissary on a newly to be acquired
ten acre site in Milton Keynes. When fully operational in late 2009, 
this new commissary will be the most advanced manufacturing
and distribution facility anywhere in the Domino’s Pizza system 
worldwide and will provide our business with signiﬁcant additional 
operating efﬁciencies and resilience. 
Maintenance of the consistently high standards expected of a 
brand such as Domino’s Pizza requires careful monitoring, training 
and investment by both the franchisees and corporate. We have 
therefore launched a number of initiatives in recent years to assist 
our franchisees in achieving the high standards we expect from 
them in the areas of health and safety, employment practices and 
environmental health standards. 
Finally, having opened by welcoming our new CEO, I would like to 
close by paying tribute to our retiring Chairman, Colin Halpern. 
Colin acquired the rights to Domino’s Pizza in the UK and Ireland 
back in 1993. His “feel” for the market and his wise commercial 
counsel have been of invaluable help to me in guiding the business 
to the enviable position we are in today. I am pleased to say that 
we will not be losing this advice, as Colin has agreed to stay on as 
Non-Executive Vice Chairman. I look forward to working with him 
for many years to come. 
Stephen Hemsley
Executive Chairman
