 6 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Operating and ﬁ nancial review
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
Reaping the rewards of 
a consistent strategy...
„
10.0%
 Like-for-like sales
 (2007: 14.7%)
I am delighted to report another 
excellent set of results this year, 
which reﬂ ects great momentum in 
the business with like-for-like sales 
growth of 10.0%, building on the 
very strong performance in 2007. 
This growth has been achieved while 
continuing our aggressive expansion 
programme, with a record 52 new 
stores successfully opened during 
the year, bringing the total number 
of stores at the year end to 553 and 
leaving us on track to exceed our 
target of at least 1,000 stores in the 
next 10 years.
Our growth continues to be driven by our unfaltering
focus and passion for the delivery of our three key 
priorities – namely great quality pizza, outstanding
customer service and innovative marketing that 
resonates with our customers. This combination has 
resulted in total system sales increasing by 18.4% 
and proﬁ t before tax, pre-exceptionals, up 24.7%. 
I am particularly delighted that this growth was 
achieved with our existing franchisees, who between 
them opened 51 of the 52 new stores, moving the 
average number of stores per franchisee – a measure
we have been looking to increase – to 4.2 in 2008, 
up from 3.5 in 2007 and 3.0 in 2006.  
And it’s not surprising to see why there is so much 
internal demand. The average mature store now 
takes 45% more than it did ﬁ ve years ago resulting 
in 47 stores with sales in excess of £1.0m and, of 
the 8,700 Domino’s stores worldwide, 38 of the top 
50 stores are in our territory.
Chris Moore 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer  Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc 7
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
4 An increase in households opting for 
 in-home entertainment accompanied by
 delivered food at the expense of eating 
 or drinking out – a dynamic that has 
 been reinforced by the current economic 
 downturn. We believe many of these 
 customers have come from the restaurant
 sector and, by exceeding their expectations
 in terms of product quality and speed of 
 delivery, these customers will stay with
 Domino’s when the economy becomes 
 more buoyant.
3 A growth in one-person households and 
 the number of working women.
2 The increasing length of the working 
 week, resulting in more cash-rich, 
 time-poor consumers reliant, in part, 
 on prepared food.
1 A broader target market, as our original 
 18-34 year old consumer moves into the 
 35-54 year old bracket, taking their eating 
 habits with them, while new young adults
 come into the market.
Strong growth
potential
So how do we do it?
Our market
Firstly, we operate in a market that offers strong growth 
potential for a number of different reasons.
Many of the consumer dynamics affecting the market are 
helping to underpin the strength of our business model. 
These dynamics have been primarily driven by social and 
lifestyle changes over the decade, such as: 8 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Operating and ﬁ nancial review
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
continued
Our strategy 
The ﬁ rst part of our strategy is to maximise the 
proﬁ tability of both our franchisees and the Group 
by positioning Domino’s as the best pizza delivery 
company in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. 
This premium positioning has been attained and 
is underpinned by three key elements:
A passion for product quality and menu 
innovation 
Despite the recent downward pressure on food 
prices, key ingredients are still more expensive 
than they were two years ago. In this recessionary 
environment, we believe many of our competitors 
have reduced the quality of their food. At Domino’s 
we have resolutely upheld the quality of our pizza 
and side orders and maintained our stance on no 
genetically modiﬁ ed food, no added hydrogenated 
fats and no monosodium glutamate. Additionally, 
we continue to keep the menu fresh with a constant
stream of new pizzas, side dishes and desserts.
Speed of service
Our average delivery time 
is now a market-beating 
23 minutes  Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc 9
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
A fanatical focus on speed of service
For the last three years we have focused in-store on
reducing the time it takes to get an order ready for 
delivery and out-the-door (OTD). This gives our drivers
ample time to deliver each order safely. This focus 
has seen the OTD time reduce from 17 minutes in 
2005 to 13 minutes in 2008, which means that the 
average delivery time is now a market-beating 23 
minutes. As a business, we know that the faster the 
customer receives their order, the sooner they are 
likely to reorder.
 13minutes
 OTD time
 (2007: 17 minutes)
Andy Smith
Region: North East
6
Number of stores run by Andy
9
11
T otal number of stores in the region
2007
2008
 11
 Focus on our franchisees
Andy Smith joined the Domino’s Pizza system 
as a franchisee in 2000. At the time he was 
working in Scotland as the director of a building 
company. Andy’s stores include Gateshead, 
which was one of the very ﬁ rst Domino’s stores 
opened in the UK.
 
Andy says: “I was looking for a change and 
there weren’t many pizza places in Scotland 
at the time. Domino’s had a good business 
proposition and looked like a great opportunity. 
It proved to be a lucrative decision to get in at 
the start and I’ve now got six stores across the 
North East and Scotland.
 
“Working for Domino’s and running my own 
business has brought me into contact with a wide
range of people, from all walks of life. During 
the last nine years I’ve recruited numerous staff 
and seen them develop their careers both within 
Domino’s and elsewhere. It’s a real people 
business and that’s the best thing about it for 
me – I’ve met some real characters.”
✪ Favourite pizza
Pepperoni Passion 10 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
„
73.7%
 E-commerce sales
 (2007 : 60.5%)
Operating and ﬁ nancial review
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
continued
Through this strong combination of marketing at 
both a national and local level, we have increased 
our customer penetration and order frequency and 
attracted a signiﬁ cant number of new customers. 
Some 2.7 million households ordered from us during
the year, a third of which were entirely new to the 
brand. Additionally, our e-commerce platform, which
this year celebrates its tenth anniversary, continues to
exceed expectations. Mainly as a result of increased 
spend in highly targeted online marketing in 2008, 
sales grew by an extraordinary 74% while average 
ticket value was 20% higher than regular phone 
orders. E-commerce in 2008 generated 23% of 
delivered sales in the UK (2007: 16%) while online 
sales in the Republic of Ireland reached 7% of 
delivered sales for its ﬁ rst full year of operation.
The relentless marketing activity with which we 
support our brand
As our system sales grow, our franchisees’ contribution
to the National Advertising Fund (NAF) grows, 
allowing us to continue in a virtuous marketing circle.
This year the NAF increased to £18m (2007: £15m), 
which gave us the ability to secure the sponsorship 
of Britain’s Got Talent – another step change in the 
prominence of the brand in the UK. Viewing ﬁ gures 
exceeded everyone’s expectations as it captured 
the nation’s attention. The ﬁ nal show attracted an 
audience of around 14 million, which made it the 
third most watched programme of the year, and we
are looking forward to the next two series of this three
year deal. In the Republic of Ireland, we sponsored 
a number of high proﬁ le shows including X-Factor 
and I’m a Celebrity. Crucially, this greater buying 
power has been complemented by the deﬂ ationary
media market, giving access to an increased number
of advertising slots on prime time television.   Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc 11
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Our expansion potential
The second part of our strategy is to pursue an 
aggressive store rollout and we are delighted to 
have exceeded our target of opening 50 new stores.  
This achievement is all the more remarkable given 
the fact that the business model is 100% franchised, 
which clearly limits the control that we have over 
the speed of rollout. It is therefore only through the 
delivery of a highly proﬁ table business model that 
our franchisees invest, enabling us to grow further. 
The new stores opened during the last 12 months 
had sales, on average, 26% higher than those stores
opened in 2007, proving that we are still able to ﬁ nd
exceptional locations and franchisees to operate them.
„
52
 New stores opened
 (2007 : 50)
Sean Geddes
Region: Scotland
8
Number of stores run by Sean
38
43
T otal number of stores in the region
2007
2008
 43
 Focus on our franchisees
It was 2001 and Sean Geddes was working in 
Holland, running a business unit for TNT with a 
focus on major events. He was responsible for 
organising the logistics for everything from the 
delivery of 300 tonnes of freight, 45 trucks and 
three 747s of equipment for a MotoGP race in 
Brazil to the transportation of a lorry load of 
4x4s to Antarctica for the Camel Trophy. Then 
one day, he decided it was time to drastically 
change his lifestyle.
 
Sean says: “My wife had just had a baby daughter
and I really wanted to spend more time at home,
so I decided on a career change. I went on the 
Internet and searched for “Cash Business”. The 
results included some information about taking 
a Domino’s franchise.
 
“I ﬂ ew to the interview from Nairobi and that 
was the end of my globe-trotting days. The 
attraction of a strong brand, a great operation 
and the people involved convinced me to take 
the plunge – and I’ve not looked back since. It’s 
been fantastic to be able to watch my business 
and my kids grow up!”
✪ Favourite pizza
Piri Piri 12 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Operating and ﬁ nancial review
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
continued
Our strategy and business model relies on strong 
relationships with our franchisees and we invest 
heavily in ensuring that we have open lines of 
communication. As well as a dedicated franchisee 
intranet, which provides real time data on virtually 
every aspect of their operation, we hold regular 
events to ensure that they can talk directly to the 
Company’s Directors and senior management and 
we provide training courses for both franchisees 
and their store teams.
Our investment plans
We have also embarked on an ambitious 
refurbishment project, rolling out our new look 
stores. The new store template includes more visible 
kitchens to increase the theatre of the pizza maker, 
lighter, brighter customer service areas and a new, 
more eye-catching fascia.
Bigger and better
Our investment in new 
facilities will enable us to 
improve our efﬁ ciency and 
give us more capacity  Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc 13
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
We have also invested in new facilities that will enable
us to both improve our efﬁ ciency and to give us the
additional capacity needed to meet our rollout plans.
We are in the process of expanding our facility at 
Penrith, with work nearly completed on doubling its 
capacity, at a cost of £4.0m. We have also acquired 
the freehold land for the new commissary and 
headquarters in Milton Keynes and work is already 
underway. The total cost of this project is estimated at
around £27.0m and the commissary is expected to be
completed by mid 2010 with the head ofﬁ ce following
in the third quarter of 2010. We are currently on 
track to meet both of these targets. We will also 
need to expand the commissary capacity in Ireland 
to meet the increasing demand in that territory and 
are currently investigating various options to achieve 
this goal.
Kevin Blessing
Region: Republic of Ireland
9
Number of stores run by Kevin
34
41
T otal number of stores in the region
2007
2008
 41
 Focus on our franchisees
Kevin Blessing has long had an interest in food 
and, prior to joining Domino’s, he was managing
a food production company making pasta, 
sauces and ready meals. Having completed 
his Franchise Development Programme, Kevin 
opened his ﬁ rst store in 2003. He now has nine 
stores across the Republic of Ireland, which he 
runs with his brothers, Turlough and Peter.
 
Kevin says: “I really wanted to run my own 
business and develop a brand – but I realised 
that the latter was going to be a very expensive 
process and, with that in mind, I decided to 
look at the options around franchising. With 
Domino’s, I found something that is mid-way 
between the two – a great combination of your 
own business and the support and backing of a 
strong brand.
 
“It was a good choice and I really enjoy it. 
My brothers and I are very hands-on and its 
fantastic watching people come into the store at 
the bottom, get bitten by the Domino’s bug, and 
then work their way up to store manager. We’ve 
now got a very successful business, have built a 
fantastic team of people, and we have a lot of 
fun too.”
✪ Favourite pizza
Thin crust pepperoni with
bacon and green peppers 14 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Operating and ﬁ nancial review
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
continued
The successful delivery of this strategy continues 
to result in strong cash ﬂ ows and we already have 
the debt facilities in place to fund the new Milton 
Keynes commissary development. Accordingly, it is 
the Directors’ intention to continue to return surplus 
cash to shareholders by further share buybacks and 
dividends, or to repay debt.
Our cost controls
In line with this strong organic growth, we have also
focused over the last year on controlling our costs 
and managing our central overhead as effectively 
as possible. After the spiralling food costs of 2007, 
we made purchasing a major focus in 2008. We 
have strengthened our procurement team to utilise 
our growing buying power and, encouragingly, 
many food prices are beginning to come down. 
The procurement team will also be concentrating 
on other major costs such as utilities for both us and 
our franchisees. Our goal is to ensure that a small 
and highly efﬁ cient centre supports an ever-growing 
network of franchised stores.   Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc 15
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Current trading and outlook 
We have had an exceptional start to 2009, with 
like-for-like sales for the ﬁ rst six weeks up 15.0% 
(2008: 11.0%). While we are delighted with this 
performance, we face some very tough comparatives
and an unpredictable economic environment. 
Our store opening programme continues apace and
plans for another 50 new store openings this year are
well underway with numerous sites in the pipeline.
We are conﬁ dent that we are well positioned for 
another year of strong growth.
Chris Moore
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
Nigel Hall
Region: Wales
5
Number of stores run by Nigel
19
22
T otal number of stores in the region
2007
2008
 22
 Focus on our franchisees
Nigel Hall was a director for an IT company 
when, in 1997, he decided to become a 
Domino’s franchisee. He now has ﬁ ve stores 
in and around his home town of Cardiff.
 
Nigel says: “I wanted to run my own business 
and work for myself, and I had always had an 
interest in food and catering. I was looking for 
a franchise and Domino’s had a strong brand 
and a proven operating system and I felt really 
comfortable with the people. At the time, Colin 
and Gerry Halpern were still very involved and 
I knew I could do business with them.
 
“It’s been a fantastic experience and it’s been 
great to be part of a strong and growing success.
I am lucky to have a fantastic team of people 
working with me and every day is different. 
I wouldn’t go back to IT for anything!”
✪ Favourite pizza
Pepperoni Passion with
Veg-a-Roma sauce
