 4 Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
„
24.7%
 Proﬁ t before tax
1
 (2007 : 33. 1 %)
„
18.4%
 System sales
 (2007: 23.4%)
I am pleased, in my ﬁ rst year as 
Chairman, to be reporting a year 
of signiﬁ cant achievement both 
operationally and corporately. Proﬁ t 
before tax and exceptional items rose 
24.7% to £23.4m, on system sales 
growth up 18.4% to £350.8m. 
In addition, we opened 52 new 
stores, exceeding our annual target 
of 50 stores for the ﬁ rst time. This 
was an excellent performance given 
both the uncertain economic climate 
and the very tough comparatives we 
were up against from last year.
Corporately it has also been an eventful year with our
move from the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) 
to the Ofﬁ cial List on 19 May 2008 (Admission). 
AIM had served us well since 1999, but with the 
rapid growth we have achieved and our objective to 
broaden our investor base, a change was necessary.
Admission was closely followed by our inclusion in the
FTSE 250 Index and we are conﬁ dent that over 
the long-term this will improve the liquidity and 
marketability of our shares. We were particularly
proud during the last 12 months to have our 
achievements recognised by winning both the AIM 
Investors Company of the Year and the Shares 
Magazine Main Market Company Achievement 
awards, as well as a Catey Award for Best Use 
of Technology.
Our continued expansion this year could not have 
been achieved without the hard work, passion 
and entrepreneurial ﬂ air of our franchisees. We 
have a strong and positive relationship with all of 
our franchisees and together we work very closely
1 Before operating and non-
 operating exceptional items.
Stephen Hemsley 
Executive Chairman
Chairman’s statement
Delivering to the 
highest standards...  Domino’s Pizza UK & IRL plc 5
 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
in maintaining our position as the leading home 
delivery pizza company in the UK and the Republic of
Ireland. It is particularly pleasing that the impressive 
growth of last year was predominantly achieved in 
partnership with our existing franchisees, who opened
all but one of the new stores. This, combined with 
further consolidation in the ownership of existing 
stores, has increased the average number of stores 
per franchisee. This greater concentration further 
improves the returns our franchisees can achieve 
and makes them signiﬁ cantly more resilient to a 
changing economic climate.  
Our recent strong growth in more challenging times 
keeps us on target to exceed 1,000 stores in the 
next 10 years. In addition, as a result of our recent 
successes in smaller towns, the growing acceptance 
of home delivered meals and the predicted growth 
in population and new housing, we now believe that 
there is capacity for well in excess of 1,000 stores 
in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our dedicated corporate and commissary teams have
also played an essential part in the success of the 
business over the last year and I would like to thank 
all of them for their focus and professionalism, which
has helped to drive one of the best performances in 
the leisure sector. A unique feature of our business 
model is that as we grow the number of stores and 
system sales, our headcount and costs do not need 
to grow proportionally. This is enhanced when the 
number of stores per franchisee increases, as the 
larger franchisee groups rely less on the corporate 
team to support their activities. We therefore remain 
conﬁ dent that our growth in proﬁ ts can continue to 
out pace the growth in system sales. 
We were delighted to welcome Peter Klauber to our 
Board during the year as an additional, independent
Non-Executive Director. Peter is a former senior 
partner at Ernst & Young and brings a wealth of 
experience to the Board. We also strengthened our 
senior management team in the ﬁ rst quarter with 
the appointment of Adam Batty as General Counsel 
and Company Secretary and Jon Campbell as 
Procurement Director. Adam joined from leading pub
company Mitchells & Butlers plc and was responsible
for the process of Domino’s joining the Ofﬁ cial List. 
Adam is also in charge of the Company’s compliance
with legal, regulatory and governance matters. Jon 
was previously Purchasing Director at Bakkavor, the 
international food manufacturing company, and is
responsible for the cost-effective procurement of
food and non-food items supplied to franchisees as 
well as the re-engineering of our supply chain in a 
number of our key product lines.
Our strategy has been and remains to return 
surplus cash to shareholders. For 2008, the Board 
is proposing a ﬁ nal dividend to shareholders for the 
year of 3.2p per share up 28.0% on last year which, 
if approved, will result in a total dividend for 2008 
of 5.9p per share, up 34.1% on last year. During the 
ﬁ rst half of the year we undertook a programme of 
share buybacks which, combined with the dividend
payments, resulted in a total of £11.8m being 
returned to shareholders in 2008. This represents 
75% of 2008 post-tax earnings and brings the ﬁ ve 
year average of cash returned to shareholders to 
103% of post-tax earnings, totalling £55.6m. It is 
our intention to continue to return surplus cash to 
shareholders in the most effective way possible.
In the current economic climate, we are pleased to 
be able to continue our aggressive expansion plans, 
which are a real cause for celebration. If we deliver 
our target of an additional 50 new store openings 
in 2009, we will create at least another 1,500 new 
jobs in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. Our 
business model is proving to be extremely resilient 
during the downturn as people dine out less and 
order from a trusted brand that offers great value for
money. We believe that current market conditions 
will allow us to further increase our market share 
and strengthen our position in the home delivery 
market. We therefore look forward to the future 
with conﬁ dence.
Stephen Hemsley
Executive Chairman
„
34.1%
 Dividend per share
 (2007 : 43.8%)
