 5
dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
Financial Overview
The Group has enjoyed another year of proﬁtable growth with  
the ﬁnal outcome for revenue and proﬁts slightly ahead of analysts’ 
expectations.
Turnover increased from £9m to £12m, a growth of 34% in the year  
and proﬁt before tax and exceptional items grew from £2.3m to £2.9m 
a growth of 25%.
Overall the Board is delighted with the progress made against plans 
during the year, which reﬂect our continued focus on strong organic 
growth through new client acquisitions and investment in new 
products and services.
We have again focused on growing recurring revenues and 
proﬁtability, while continuing to invest in people and product 
development to maintain future earnings. The total investment in 
hardware during the year was £0.3m and £1.1m in product research 
and development.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
We will continue to focus on product 
innovation, understanding our clients’ 
requirements and delivering return on 
investment for our clients.
Turnover and 
profits ahead 
of market 
expectations
Continued 
strong cash 
generation
 Year end Year end  Year end 
 30.6.12 30.6.11 % inc 30.6.10 
 £m £m  £m
Turnover 12.0 9.0 34% 6.0
Pre-tax proﬁts* 2.9 2.3 25% 1.4
EBITDA 3.4 2.6 31% 1.5
*Before exceptional items
Cash Position
We continue to be strongly cash generative with cash from operations 
growing in the year and cash balances at the year-end reaching £4m. 
Other than small operating leases there is no debt ﬁnance.
We have continued to invest in the future of the business with 
signiﬁcant investment in upgrading the IT infrastructure and further 
signiﬁcant product development. 
Growth Strategy
By business unit the growth has been as follows:
SaaS Email Marketing Revenues & Email Managed Service from  
£6.9m to £9.5m – up 38%.
Services & Search from £2.1m to £2.5m – up 19%.
Watch Proactive Investors 
Interview of dotDigital 
Group’s CEO, Peter Simmonds.
Peter Simmonds
Chief Executive and  and Chief Financial Officer www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
Digital Landscape
Current research shows that companies are continuing to shift  
money from traditional marketing to internet marketing for its 
eﬀectiveness and ability to attribute results to speciﬁc activity, 
demonstrating improved ROI.
The signiﬁcant increase in time being spent consuming online  
media has had a direct impact on marketing spend. A 6% drop in  
time spent consuming print media has seen a 29% drop in advertising 
spend, where as internet has a signiﬁcant 16% growth in time spent 
consuming media with an ad spend growth of 22%.
We believe, it is the email’s value within the context of broader 
personalised marketing programs that is bringing new value to the 
channel. Although unveriﬁed, sources estimate 2.9 billion email 
accounts and over 100 billion subscribed email messages are being 
sent daily. Email’s reach is unmatched despite the rapid adoption  
of alternative channels for engaging consumers online. Despite  
the attention and reports surrounding social media marginalising 
email, it remains the most logical centre for any multi-channel 
marketing platform.
As this trend persists the Board will continue to work with UK and 
international partners to identify and evaluate emerging opportunities 
for SaaS technology products across email and cross-channel online 
marketing to inform its product roadmap.
Companies are  
continuing to shift money 
from traditional marketing 
to internet marketing for its 
effectiveness and ability  
to attribute results to 
specific activity.
Multi-channel marketing is becoming 
one of the most sought-after categories 
in enterprise software/service. 7
dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
Email
2.9bn
accounts
100bn+ daily 
messages
Facebook
845m
active monthly users
2.7bn likes & 
comments/day
Twitter
300m
accounts
300m tweets/day
Google
95m
accounts
Tumblr
48m
blog accounts
Instagram
27m
accounts
Foursquare
15m
accounts
Pinterest
11m
monthly visitors
Multi-Channel Marketing
Traditional CRM
Customer data store
CRM system will play an 
important role in powering user 
level marketing campaigns
Email Marketing
Management
Email creation and management
system driven by need to manage 
user interactions and messages 
across digital channels
Social Media
Management
Engagement system for social 
consumer interaction
Social software leading
convergence between earning,
owned and paid channels
Email’s global reach is still unmatched despite the rapid  
adoption of alternative channels for engaging consumers
Multi-channel marketing is becoming one of the most-sought  
after categories in enterprise marketing software/service www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
dotMailer
Email marketing continues to perform extremely strongly both in 
terms of new clients and recurring revenues from existing clients, with 
dotMailer’s monthly recurring revenue now accounting for over 60% 
of total revenue across the Company, which equates to approximately 
38% growth year-on-year. The Group’s total recurring revenue from all 
products and services, now accounts for 67% of total revenue.
New customer signups for dotMailer have continued to be a signiﬁcant 
source of revenue growth in the year, with 1,813 new clients being 
added. Of particular note during 2011/12, is that enhancements to 
the dotMailer platform and changes to the structure of the sales team 
have signiﬁcantly increased client wins in the ‘corporate’ segment. 
Our portfolio of blue chip clients now includes names such as DHL, 
Nationwide, BBC Worldwide, Capita, AstraZeneca, Esso, Ryman, Tarmac, 
Nicole Farhi, Nicky Clarke, EDF Energy, Virgin Train and Betfair. 
Based on historic experience the lifetime value of a corporate client 
should be in excess of £40k compared to an average lifetime value  
of £4k for a SME client.
The combination of ﬂexible pricing options, ease-of-use and advanced 
marketing features enables us to win clients from SME’s to global 
corporates. Moving forward we see growth opportunities in the mid 
– large company requiring a self service provider – a niche where we 
believe dotMailer can dominate.
Email & Cross-Channel
Marketing Automation
dotMailer client portfolio includes:
User interfaces now have the ability 
to be translated into eight languages 
to support international client and 
partner growth plans.
Watch dotMailer’s email Drag 
& Drop Easy Editor video
+38%
growth in SaaS Email 
Marketing Revenues  
& Email Managed  
Service. 9
dotMailer software provides users with an efficient and 
effective marketing campaign management system with a 
suite of interactive, powerful and easy-to-use email and cross-
channel marketing tools. Bought separately, or as part of a 
comprehensive cross-channel solution, email, mobile, social, 
landing page, ecommerce and survey tools can be managed  
from a single point running on dotMailer’s highly secure and 
robust platform and infrastructure.
Small business or corporate enterprise users can create, manage, 
automate and analyse integrated digital maketing activity more 
efficiently and effectively to significantly improve their customer 
lead generation, conversion, and retention.
Using dotMailer’s email Drag & Drop 
Easy Editor and powerful administration 
and reporting features, users can easily 
create, manage and evaluate segmented 
email campaigns to drive conversion, 
retention and loyalty.
Businesses can manage and moderate 
social media marketing from one central 
hub, getting involved with fans in  
their space to build brand reputation  
and personality.
Shop builder makes it easy for small 
businesses to build and manage a successful 
ecommerce store, allowing users to get 
selling straight away with this quick shop 
and focus on sales, not the technical side  
of web design.
Marketers can communicate effectively in 
a mobile world with easy SMS tools and 
mobile-optimised templates, allowing 
customer engagement anywhere at any 
time to drive instant responses and actions 
for maximum ROI.
Non-technical professionals can easily 
build microsites and landing pages  
so campaigns convert more, ensuring 
fully integrated campaigns by  
creating dedicated landing pages  
for each offering.
Marketers can create branded surveys, 
questionnaires, competitions and web 
forms in moments, enhancing databases 
and easily discovering more about 
customers, markets or employees.
Hello
Bonjour
Guten Tag
Interface 
image
Powerful integrations creating new sales channels
Uniquely scalable, powerful and easy-to-use 
campaign creation & management system  
for small, midsize and corporate businesses
Easy translation and white labelling technology for 
international client and partner growth
New responsive design that optimises  
campaigns for mobile
Email & Cross-Channel Marketing Automation
dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
Email
Landing Page Builder
Mobile
Shop
Social
Survey www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
10
dotSurvey
dotSurvey our new online survey tool was launched from beta at the 
beginning of May and although only marketed initially to existing 
clients has now over 500 paying clients and nearly 2,500 trial users.  
The Board recognises the enormous potential of this division as can  
be demonstrated by growth in the sector. Although marketing spend 
is crucial to the strategy of scaling this business, the Board believes  
the quality of the product will soon develop a brand to equal others  
in the market.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
dotSurvey – perfectly branded 
online surveys, created in minutes 
with our latest online survey tool. 
Built for total usability, dotSurvey 
makes it fantastically easy for users 
to create fully branded, professional 
online surveys and web forms that 
look just like they’re part of their 
website.
Versatile, Powerful and
Easy-To-Use Online Survey Tool
dotSurvey’s client portfolio includes:
dotSurvey launched 
and marketed to 
existing client base 
in May 2012, now 
has over 500 paying 
clients and 2,500  
trial users.
Watch dotSurvey’s  
Introduction video.  11
Versatile, powerful and easy-to-use template 
creation and management system for small, midsize 
and corporate businesses
dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
With the versatility and power of dotSurvey, users can take this 
tool way beyond your average survey tool. With everything 
in the app editable and customisable, users can create highly 
professional forms, surveys, invitations, preference centres  
and much more.
dotSurvey enables users to gather 
valuable insight and feedback from 
customers, helping them to highlight 
successes and weaknesses within  
their business.
dotSurvey enables businesses to create 
website sign-up forms for visitors to 
register for more information or contact 
them. This data can be mapped into 
dotMailer to automate email campaigns.
Employees are any businesses most 
valuable asset, so carrying out regular 
satisfaction surveys with dotSurvey helps 
businesses ensure employees are happy 
and moving the business forward.
Using dotSurvey, businesses with a 
new product or idea that require initial 
customer or market feedback and 
insights can easily build, collect and 
report without any outside help.
dotSurvey allows businesses to set up 
and manage competitions to grow 
or cleanse their customer database. 
Qualifying questions are sent out and 
responses received through email, social 
media or via a website.
dotSurvey, with the power of dotMailer, 
allows businesses to manage and 
coordinate events, handling RSVPs, 
capturing special dietary requests, 
and tracking automated follow-up, 
confirmation and post-event emails.
Customer Feedback  
Contact Forms
Employee Satisfaction
Events Management
Market Research
Competitions
Uses dotMailer integration for deliverability  
  and management creating upsell opportunity
Versatile, Powerful and Easy-To-Use Online Survey Tool www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
12
Services - Agency and Search
The Agency Services and Search division, which accounts for just  
under 20% of total revenue, grew revenues in the year by 19%. 
We have appointed a new management team to head the combined 
Search and Agency team and strengthened the team in both search 
marketing and agency services.
While the growth in the Search division was behind management’s 
expectations, we believe the organisational changes which have been 
made to this business during the second half of the year will enable  
us to deliver performance in line with revised plans during 2012/13.
Early signs are that these changes are being rewarded with some 
signiﬁcantly higher-value client wins.
As a result of algorithm changes made by the major search engine 
during this period we have modiﬁed some of the search marketing 
methodologies, targeted diﬀerent client proﬁles and recruited a new 
Head of Search Strategy. During June the Sywell oﬃce was closed 
and operations were transferred to the London oﬃce to improve 
knowledge sharing and fully integrate teams. Following the move of 
the Search Marketing team to London we have merged the Agency 
Services and Search Marketing team and created an operational 
management Board to run this business unit.
The ﬁnal deferred consideration for the purchase of the search 
marketing business, dotSearch (previously Netcallidus), was made in 
November 2011. The accounts contain further non-cash IFRS3 based 
accounting adjustments in the ﬁnal accounts to unwind the impact  
of contingent consideration that was estimated on the acquisition  
in May 2009 but that was not paid to the vendors. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
We have appointed a new 
management team to strengthen 
and head the combined search and 
agency team.
Ecommerce Web Design
and Search Marketing
dotAgency’s client portfolio Includes: 
The agency 
services and search 
division, accounts 
for around 20% of 
total revenue. Visitors don’t stay on a website for long if it looks ugly and 
is hard to navigate. At dotAgency, we work with our clients 
to create a site that suits their brand and keeps their visitors 
coming back. Our team of strategists, designers, UX researchers, 
user interface architects and HTML and JavaScript experts work 
in collaboration to build the site. Each of our website designs is 
tailored to suit its individual purpose.
We help our clients stay ahead of the competition by buying 
real estate on well-known search engines such as Google. Paid 
search campaigns can focus on brand protection or increasing 
market share. They can use behavioural targeting and localised 
PPC, or be tactical, reactive or trend-driven. Our Google 
Analytics-certified consultants recognise patterns in your site 
data and know exactly where to look to solve the cause of 
specific problems and convert more visits into revenue. 
Creative Design Paid Search
dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
13
dotAgency provide digital solutions and search marketing 
services to large corporations and brands. dotAgency take 
a strategic approach to UX, web development and digital 
marketing to achieve our clients’ commercial objectives.
dotAgency are Magento silver-certified partners who have 
proven creative, technical and project management skills.   
We deliver superior solutions on desktop machines, mobiles  
and tablets. Our relationship with dotMailer ensures we always 
adopt best practice when it comes to automated email marketing 
and triggered campaigns to help customer acquisition, retention 
and recommendation.
Our approach to search marketing blends organic with paid and 
social marketing, to help our clients avoid dips in their traffic so 
their online business  stays at peak performance. We help drive 
traffic to clients’ sites to maximise cross-selling and up-selling.
We don’t just build websites, we help clients build online 
business. Through data, research and experience we give clients 
a complete, integrated digital marketing service that is perfectly 
suited to their brand and brief. We work on clients’ entire digital 
strategy; analysing end user’s journey through email campaigns 
as well as web and mobile use (including social media) to 
measure and share the actions they are taking so they can be 
used to underpin a successful digital strategy.
Our dedicated search team – dotSearch – create effective 
campaigns ensuring premium search engine positions attract 
the visitors who are of most value. To stay in tune with consumer 
behaviour, each client benefits from a tailored SEO plan which is 
continually reviewed and developed to ensure they achieve the 
best possible return on investment through the right strategy, 
key words, activity and language.
Digital Strategy Search Marketing
Our professional team understands ecommerce and will work 
with our clients to create a website that meets all project 
requirements. Using Magento and Umbraco open source 
platforms, our project managers and technical teams build 
robust, high-performing sites while our account managers 
continue to make sites profitable long into the future.
Social media websites are accessed by four out of five web 
users, and by creating effective online social media campaigns 
we help our clients benefit from this traffic. 
Ecommerce and CMS Social Media
Cross-sales of dotMailer 
integration improve 
customer engagement 
and data management
Developing powerful  
and measurable traffic 
driving campaigns
Continued focus and success  
across winning and servicing large 
corporations and brands
Ecommerce Web Design & Search Marketing www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
14
Investment in Hardware and Product R&D
Over the year, the Company, invested over £250k in new hardware  
for the technical infrastructure which supports its products, and  
in September 2012 moved to new oﬃces to provide capacity for 
further growth. 
The primary purpose of this investment was to provide greater 
capacity and scalability across all products, thereby ensuring that 
the Company can service its clients eﬀectively, while continuing to 
grow the business. The hardware architecture has been conﬁgured 
with this future growth in mind, in that the layers upgraded can now 
be scaled out at a relatively low capital cost as the business requires 
it. The hardware acquired, is also the ﬁrst phase of a larger technical 
implementation which will allow the Company to release several new 
major product features in the coming years. There was an immediate 
additional beneﬁt; as well as providing the platform for future growth, 
many existing workloads are now processed faster, providing direct 
performance beneﬁts to customers.
Signiﬁcant development work on the dotMailer platform has been 
completed in the year, including integration with several major CRM 
products (including Dynamics and Salesforce), integration with the 
eBay X-Commerce fabric, translation of the user interface into eight 
languages and development of a new visual drag & drop email 
template editor. Each of these initiatives endorses our development 
spend and demonstrates that we are proactive in extending our 
oﬀering to clients which boosts our capacity to increase client wins  
and grow revenues.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
Hello
Guten Tag
Easy translation technology developed for 
international client and partner growth
dotMailer’s Drag & Drop EasyEditor allows  
everyone to be an email designer with no HTML, 
coding or web design skills
Full integration with the major CRM platforms
Bonjour
 The Company 
invested over 
£250k 
in new hardware
Watch dotMailer’s Salesforce 
Integration video. dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
15
People
As part of the Board’s strategy to position the business for further 
sustained growth, there has been a considerable investment in people 
during the year, with a key focus on adding experience and depth to 
the senior management of the business.
The appointment of Frank Beechinor-Collins as Chairman and Richard 
Kellett-Clarke FCA as senior independent Director in Spring 2011 has 
signiﬁcantly strengthened the experience and working of the Board 
during the year. 
Both Richard and Frank bring CEO-level experience of running an  
AIM business in related sectors. Richard has been appointed chair of  
the remuneration committee and audit committee during the year.  
It is the intention of the Directors to add a further non-Executive 
Director during 2012/13, subject to identifying a candidate with the 
requisite experience, skills and industry knowledge. 
In 2011, the Board had identiﬁed a number of key business areas  
where additional skills and experience would be an essential element 
of delivering on the growth strategy. New key hires have been made  
in the following areas:
Employee Engagement Head of HR
Systems Integration  Senior Systems Architect, 
& Scaling Head of Product Integration
Business Development Director of Channel Development, 
  Director of  Marketing Communications
Business Operations Head of Process Change,  
  Director of Search & Agency Operations,  
  Head of SEO Strategies
 
With ambitious growth plans for the future, the Board believes that 
hiring the best people and providing a culture where all staﬀ are 
engaged in the business, is vital to the continued success, albeit this 
will have a short impact on cost/income ratios.
As part of the strategy to ensure the business has the talent and 
culture to maintain growth the Board took the decision to enter  
the ‘Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For’ competition.
Although we were just outside the Top 100 this year, we were 
delighted to receive a star rating and a good understanding of  
areas for improvement in coming years. As part of the maturing  
of the business, the Board have committed to further investment  
in training, development and mentoring with the aim of attracting  
and retaining the best people.
During the year, the Company signiﬁcantly enhanced the training  
and development programmes available and has provided all 
employees with access to bespoke key skills training, as well as 
continuing speciﬁc niche skills development across industry and 
professional skills development. The Group has seen a greater 
percentage of employees than ever before studying towards and 
achieving professional qualiﬁcations, equipping themselves and  
the business with specialist expertise.
The Board’s commitment to an open and honest working environment 
continues with clear communication of business progress through 
weekly Company meetings; including an anonymous  ‘Ask the Board’ 
questions slot, regular newsletters, and lunches for new and existing 
employees with the Board. 
The Board strives to oﬀer a competitive beneﬁts package in order to 
attract and retain the best talent, including share option schemes and 
bonuses based on Company and individuals’ performances. Total reward 
statements are now available to all employees to provide complete 
visibility into the total value of salaries, beneﬁts and rewards earned 
through the year. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our staﬀ for their 
tremendous commitment and performance over the past year.
There has been considerable focus in the period 
on the strengthening of the senior operational 
management group who manage the on going 
business. 
Being voted as dotDigital’s Employee of the 
Year by my colleagues is an incredible honour,  
               especially as the business employs so  
                   many talented people.
Wayne Parker, 2011/12 Employee  
of the Year Celebration www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
16
2012/13 the  
year ahead...
Outlook for the Y ear Ahead
During 2012/13 we anticipate that changes to the dotMailer platform 
and the reorganisation within the sales and client services teams will 
further improve sales in the corporate sector. Recent client wins in 
this sector suggest that ease-of-use combined with powerful features, 
eﬀective integrations and marketing automation is providing a good 
ratio of client wins from pitches attended. The recent addition of 
multiple language user interface options together with, a soon to be 
launched, social broadcast capability are also expected to help open 
opportunities with global organisations.
Early results from our international expansion are encouraging and 
we expect to build the international sales team progressively during 
2012/13 where we see growth opportunities.
Initial feedback on the newly launched dotSurvey has been extremely 
positive and in quarter one of the new ﬁnancial year we plan to run 
trial marketing campaigns to establish the customer acquisition costs 
of various digital marketing channels. Based on the results of this trial, 
the Board will agree a plan for signiﬁcant focused marketing of this 
product both in the UK and globally.
During the year, we evaluated a number of potential acquisition 
opportunities of email marketing businesses. However, given that we 
would eﬀectively be acquiring clients, and not the brand, the software 
platform or the management, in the opinion of the Directors none of 
the businesses evaluated were judged to be value enhancing when 
predicted future revenues and proﬁts were compared to asking prices.
Although, we will continue to proactively seek and evaluate 
acquisitions, our strategy will focus upon successful organic growth 
and as a business we need to invest in cost-eﬀective marketing 
to ensure the growth is maintained. With a product like the new 
online survey tool, the income is annuity-based and one of the key 
decisions required will be to determine the level of upfront marketing 
investment to generate future annuity income streams.
To maintain our record of strong organic growth we will continue to 
focus on product innovation, understanding our clients’ requirements 
and delivering return on investment for our clients. We will also 
continue to selectively expand our international activities. 
We will continue to 
develop powerful and 
easy-to-use tools that 
enable non-technical 
users to plan, design, 
execute and evaluate  
multi-channel 
campaigns.
Early results from our 
international expansion 
are encouraging and 
we expect to build the 
international sales team.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
Watch Proactive Investors 
Interview of dotDigital 
Group’s COO, Tink Taylor  
and  CTO, Simon Bird.   dotDigital Group Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012 
17
do ot tD
The Future
The product roadmap for the business will be based around the  
vision of a SaaS (cloud) based digital marketing automation platform, 
built to enable marketers to deﬁne prospect and client engagement 
communications in a highly visual way, to deﬁne triggered messages 
via multiple channels, where the content delivered is segmented, 
timely and relevant to the recipient, eg. the platform will deliver 
triggered messages for events such as shopping cart abandonment  
or web page bounce automatically and in real time. 
Our passion for ease of use and visual tools for non-technical users  
will enable the design, creation, and execution of campaign workﬂows 
across every digital channel while enabling the use of marketing best 
practices and management controls.
P A Simmonds
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
The product roadmap for the 
business will be based around  
the vision of a SaaS (cloud) based 
digital marketing automation 
platform, built to enable marketers 
to define prospect and client 
engagement communications in 
a highly visual way via multiple 
channels, where the content 
delivered is segmented, timely  
and relevant to the recipient.
2000       Now
dotMailer Platform Product Roadmap
Email
Landing 
Page 
Builder
Drag & Drop 
Visual Editor
Administrator 
Interface
CRM 
Integrations
Survey
Shop
Social Media 
Management
SMS/
Mobile
Translation
Marketing 
Automation
Product innovation for growth
