 www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
4
We see our market moving toward 
providing multi-channel marketing 
automation solutions.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that despite the general economic climate 
dotDigital has increased sales and proﬁtability before exceptionals  
in the past year. This continued strong performance is a testament to 
the quality of the Company’s business model with a strong emphasis 
on recurring revenue, cash generation and cost management.
I recognise that an eﬀective board is central to the long-term 
sustainable success of the Company. We have worked hard to cultivate 
a strong team spirit through the on going review of the role and 
eﬀectiveness of the Board combined with regular strategy reviews. 
One of our non-Executive Directors, Nicholas Nelson, left the Board  
on 5th January 2012 and I would like to thank Nicholas for his valuable 
contribution to the business. It is my intention to appoint another  
non-Executive Director in the coming ﬁnancial year.  
Since joining the Company I have got to know many of our 
employees and have been repeatedly impressed by their enthusiasm, 
professionalism and dedication at every level of the organisation.  
On behalf of all our stakeholders, I thank our employees for their  
hard working contribution to another successful year.
I would also like to thank the Executive Management team for  
their continued commitment, hard work and passion in developing 
the business.
We are ﬁrmly committed to organic growth and we see a number 
of areas where we can develop our business. In the coming year we 
plan to increase our focus on geographic expansion, with particular 
emphasis on building our client list of larger businesses, by satisfying 
their demand for eﬀective marketing automation solutions. We will 
continue to assess acquisition opportunities but only act when the 
Board believes acquisition represents excellent value. 
We continue to innovate and develop products that stand out from 
the competition and the change in strategic focus on selling to larger 
enterprise organisations is starting to show excellent results.
Looking at the wider global situation, we see our market moving 
towards providing multi-channel marketing automation solutions and 
we believe our platform is well-positioned to compete in this space.
To conclude: as you will read in this Annual Report, dotDigital is in very 
good shape and continues to make great progress in delivering value 
to its shareholders and other stakeholders. The drivers of the business 
remain ﬁrmly in place. Despite current economic uncertainties, I am 
conﬁdent that we will continue to beneﬁt in the years ahead from 
continued investment in our technology, our emphasis on the quality 
of our people and eﬀective management of our costs.
                 
Frank Beechinor-Collins
Chairman
dotDigital is in very  
good shape and 
continues to make great 
progress in delivering 
value to its shareholders 
and other stakeholders.
