 dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
18
Chief Executive’s  
report
I am pleased to announce that the  
Group delivered revenue growth, EBITDA,  
proﬁts and cash position ahead of  
market guidance.
This performance is a result of continued 
strong organic growth in the high margin 
and long-term recurring revenues 
generated by our core email marketing 
product, dotmailer. 
Financial highlights
Within the dotmailer core email marketing 
product division, revenues for the 12-month 
period grew by 33% compared to the same 
period in 2013, resulting in closing cash at the 
end of the period of £9.3m (2013: £6.1m).
 
A summary of revenues by division for the full 
year to 30 June 2014 is detailed below:
 
  Revenue £m
 12m to 12m to  % 
 30.06.14 30.06.13 Change
dotmailer  £16.2m £12.2m 33%
Discontinued * £0.2m £1.6m -88%
T otal Group £16.4m £13.8m 19%
*  In March 2013 the Board announced its plans  
to wind down the Group’ s Search Marketing  
and Web Design Division, ‘dotAgency’, whilst 
continuing to service its existing clients for  
the remaining duration of their agreements.  
These agreements have now come to an  
end culminating in the successful closure  
of this division.
Peter Simmonds
Chief Executive 
Review of 2013/14
Revenue performance was driven by  
strong growth of 33% across the dotmailer 
core product, ahead of plan.
 
This strong organic growth was underpinned 
by a combination of successful new client 
wins, particularly in the corporate and 
mid-market sector, growth in recurring 
revenue from existing clients and improved 
client retention through having a larger 
proportion of clients under contracts of 12-36 
months. Notable client wins during the year 
included Land Securities Group, Thorntons, 
Ladbrokes International, Children with Cancer 
and National Express Bus.
 
Revenues from the US region performed 
strongly, increasing from $0.4m to $1.4m, 
an increase of over 200% compared to the 
same period in 2013. The New York sales 
ofﬁce continues to focus on sector niches 
and higher value corporate clients that it 
has identiﬁed are the most attractive for the 
dotmailer product platform. 
 
Penetration into Latin America has also 
materialised in the form of working with 
Panama’ s COPA Airlines, the third largest 
carrier in South America, demonstrating how 
the dotmailer platform is travelling from our 
US base into Central America and beyond. 
The US pipeline continues to grow with the 
belief it will be beneﬁcial to allocate more 
investment in headcount and marketing 
activities over the coming year to capitalise  
on this territory.
 
The Email Creative and Managed Services 
offering (part of the wider dotmailer division) 
has had a very strong performance with an 
increase in revenue of 126% to £1.8m over 
the comparable period. We are conﬁdent that 
continued revenue growth can be unlocked 
from these new services by generating 
ROI for our clients and helping time-poor 
marketers to outsource their creative and 
campaign management/strategy to email 
marketing experts such  
as dotdigital.
 
dotdigital has grown to 
become a leader in the 
provision of intuitive  
Software-as-a-Service 
(SaaS) products for digital 
marketing professionals.
Strategic report dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
19
Ebay’s Magento Connector
dotdigital fully launched the Magento 
connector earlier in the year allowing 
ecommerce customers that use the Magento 
platform to synchronise their data between 
the dotmailer and Magento platforms. The 
client sign-up of the new Magento Connector 
has been strong with the average monthly 
recurring revenue spend for customers of 
over £700 per month. The product has been 
well received as evidenced by feedback 
gained from both clients and Magento 
implementation partners. Over 100 clients  
are now using this platform with most recent 
wins including 7dayshop.com, Elemis, Fraser 
Hart, Gorgeous shop, Vax, Heals, Trunki and 
Fuji Film in the UK. 
 
The US Region has also demonstrated how 
invaluable the Magento relationship has 
become over a short period of time with 
14 new clients won since the beginning of 
the year. Vizio, one of the largest consumer 
electronics companies in the US and listed in 
the top ten biggest brands in the world using 
Magento, is one of the most recent additions 
for dotdigital. New Magento partners in the 
US also include, Blue acorn, Pod1, Classy 
llama, SLI Systems, Celebros and Peer1.
 
A clear endorsement of the success of 
the Magento relationship was recently 
demonstrated when dotdigital was awarded 
‘Gold Partnership Status’ directly by 
Magento, only one in four email service 
providers in the world to have been granted 
this prestigious status. Marketing efforts 
have also been continuous with dotdigital 
sponsoring Magento’ s premier eCommerce 
‘Imagine 2014’ event held in Las Vegas  
earlier this year and the ‘MagentoLive’ event 
held in London in July of this year.
 
Cash generation
The business continues to be highly  
cash generative with cash at the end of the 
period standing at £9.3m, an increase of 
53% on the prior year (2013: £6.1m) after 
capital expenditure and product development 
of £2.0m. The Company continues to be  
debt free. Highly efﬁcient cash collection 
processes, combined with over 45% of 
clients paying retainers by direct debit, 
contributed to the Company’ s strong cash 
position at the year end.
Dividend policy 
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
conducted a review of the business plans for 
the next three years including evaluating the 
cash needs for increased investment in both 
organic growth and capital expenditure and 
has decided that an increase in dividend can 
be proposed this year.
 
Therefore subject to approval at the AGM  
on 16 December 2014 the Board proposes 
that the Company will pay a dividend of 
0.2 pence per share, payable at the end of 
January 2015.
Brand positioning 
The Company has successfully implemented 
a dotmailer re-branding initiative which 
incorporates a refresh of the dotmailer 
platform, release of powerful new features 
and the launch of a new marketing website. 
dotdigital also celebrated its 15-year 
anniversary and to commemorate this 
auspicious landmark the Company hosted  
a “15th Birthday Network Party” for over  
200 clients, partners and institutional 
investors at dotdigital’ s new ofﬁces at  
No.1 London Bridge.
I see dotmailer as an 
integral part of my 
communications team, 
delivering a quality service 
that goes far beyond 
sending out emails.
Lori Folts,
Head of Marketing Communications,  
DHL Express dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
20
People
As part of the long-term strategy to build a 
high-performing team capable of sustaining 
our growth we have made a number of 
strategically important hires into the senior 
management team during the year.
These have included:
•  HR Director
•  Marketing Director
•  IT Director
•  Customer experience Director  
(starts mid October)
•  Executive Vice-President  
US Operations
In addition, we appointed Milan Patel into  
the role of CFO in March this year when he 
joined the main board.
I am conﬁdent that the skills and experience 
of the Executive team put us in a strong 
position to deliver on the strategy approved 
by the Board.
In addition to the senior hires appointed 
during the year, we also embarked on a 
period of accelerated investment in sales, 
marketing and product development.
The goal we set ourselves was to recruit  
a further 30 sales and account manager  
staff and to strengthen marketing and 
product development.
The hiring process has continued through  
the autumn of 2013 and throughout 2014.
Over that period we have hired a net 
additional 29 sales and account management 
staff, 5 additional staff into our marketing 
team, 5 into managed service and 
design and a further 13 into the product 
development and systems team.
This has been a signiﬁcant undertaking 
and I have now tasked the senior team 
with ensuring that the new staff are fully 
integrated into the business and performing 
to full capacity. We will also be reviewing 
our structure to ensure we have the correct 
management processes to support the 
enlarged team.
Market size
The consulting ﬁrm Econsultancy estimate the 
total UK market for email marketing platforms 
and services to be worth around £500m. 
This, however, includes creative resources in 
agencies and client side resources. Our own 
estimate of the UK addressable market for 
email marketing automation providers is in 
the region of £180m with dotmailer enjoying a 
market share of 9% in a market with around 
30 providers.
 
Over the past seven years, revenues have 
grown 548% from £2.5m to £16.2m (year to 
June 2014). This equates to a six-year CAGR 
of 37%, which is higher than the market 
growth in that time, reﬂecting market share 
gains.
 
Whilst the Group has always enjoyed a  
high degree of repeat revenue, much work 
has been done in the last two years to shift  
its revenues to contractual, recurring 
revenues (which reduces churn), with the 
sales team incentivised on total contracted 
value of deals. The initiative has positively 
impacted the stickiness of customers, the 
ration of clients on long-term contracts albeit 
at the expense of a small erosion in margin as 
a result of incentives to sign multi year deals.
 
Chief Executive’s  
report continued
Over the past six years, 
revenues have grown 
548% from £2.5m to 
£16.2m (year to June 
2014). This equates to  
a six-year CAGR of 37%, 
which is higher than the 
market growth in that 
time, reﬂecting market 
share gains.
Strategic report dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
21
Danone 
(Nutricia) Medical 
Case study 
Case study
The key to its success is that 
the whole process happens 
seamlessly within the system, 
with no manual intervention. 
The campaign results have 
been impressive enjoying an 
average open rate of 48%.
 
Lloyd Ress,
Danone Nutricia
The team at Nutricia chose a 
combination of Salesforce and dotmailer 
to deliver an integrated mailing solution. 
The dotmailer platform’s ease of use 
has allowed Nutricia to take their 
online marketing activities in-house, 
allowing their existing team to produce 
campaigns quickly and effectively 
without having to learn their way around 
complex applications.
Automation features have been used 
to create and roll out multiple content 
approaches and messages to different 
audiences based upon where they are in 
the customer journey lifecycle. dotmailer is 
also used to gather customer engagement 
and purchasing information and feed back 
into the system to reﬁne both targeting and 
content for future activity. dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
22
City & Guilds  
Case study
City & Guilds are implementing a four-year 
marketing automation roll-out programme  
with dotmailer, so they can spend more time  
on creative work that has a greater impact  
with their customers.
The project is two thirds of the way through and 
City & Guilds are enjoying signiﬁcant and tangible 
beneﬁts. Unique email opens frequently beat  
50% with click through rates as high as 77%.  
The automation programme has helped web  
trafﬁc rise by 20% and the rate of new contacts  
has increased by 25%. Above all else sales targets 
have been beaten by 9%.
Using dotmalier’s advanced features City & Guilds 
are personalising messages based upon how and 
when people react to the emails. When this campaign 
was benchmarked against the results of a standard 
single email campaign the results were telling – on 
every single indicator the impact and response was 
several times that of a simple email, with the triggered 
campaign delivering a return on investment of 15:1.
When we saw dotmailer, we 
were totally blown away. The 
biggest attraction was its ease 
of use – it enabled us to move 
from a big effort to build a single 
email, to using that time to craft 
automated and targeted journeys 
across multiple emails. Also the 
ﬂexibility and reporting, as well 
as the ability to segment all our 
different email recipients, was 
way ahead of anything else  
we saw. The decision was a  
no-brainer.
Steve Smith
eCRM Manager, 
City & Guilds
Strategic report dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
23
The strategy to focus on mid-sized 
businesses with higher lifetime values and 
lower attrition has demonstrably contributed 
to higher services revenues and higher 
average monthly contract values, strong 
retention and we continue to see strong 
demand within this niche both in the UK 
and US. We are ever mindful of the need to 
constantly innovate and enhance the features 
of the dotmailer platform to meet the  
needs of today’ s ever more demanding  
digital marketer. Our product management 
and development team are planning over  
3-, 12- and 36-month time horizons to 
ensure the platform continues to deliver 
competitive advantage.
Growth strategy
During the year we evaluated a number of 
potential acquisition opportunities in the 
email marketing space. However, as in prior 
years none of the businesses evaluated 
were judged to be likely to create long-term 
shareholder value when execution and 
integration risks were factored in. 
 
Therefore our focus remains on organic 
growth by selectively investing in sales and 
account management staff to concentrate  
on key relationships and markets whilst at  
the same time investing in the dotmailer 
platform to maintain it’ s technical lead,  
ease of use, and integration.
The focus on fast growing medium-sized 
businesses and corporate clients has driven 
average monthly spend per client up by 32% 
and the average contracted monthly spend 
of new clients added during the year was 
£410. This, combined with a focus on longer 
term contracts, (78% of clients are now on 
12-24 month contracts) and client retention 
is importantly leading to signiﬁcantly higher 
client lifetime values.
In September 2013, the Board agreed 
to invest around £3.5m to accelerate our 
organic growth by hiring a further 30 sales, 
account management executives and 
increasing marketing spend. This increase in 
headcount and additional marketing spend 
largely happened in the second half of the 
year and it is now starting to be possible to 
review the return on investment from this 
decision.
Based on the early results there are clear 
indications that the potential for signiﬁcant 
further growth exists from greater investment 
in the US market and from forming strategic 
partnerships globally.
Building on the leading position of the 
dotmailer brand in the mid-market will be a 
key priority for 2015 and the Board believe 
that there are signiﬁcant future growth 
opportunities from hiring additional sales 
personnel and account management staff 
in the US and further building the team 
developing strategic partnerships globally.
Outlook
The dotmailer email marketing/marketing 
automation platform continues to perform 
very strongly in its chosen markets and in 
quarter one of the new ﬁnancial year has 
delivered total revenues in line with plan.
 
Chief Executive’s  
report continued Chief Executive’s  
report continued
 
The marketing initiatives to build our US 
presence are now starting to deliver a strong 
pipeline of new clients, particularly in the  
mid-size online retail space which continues 
to be a core focus for 2015 and as the 
customer base continues to grow we will 
need to invest further into local account 
management and managed services.
The Board intend to conduct a review of the 
progress and opportunities in the US and 
South America in the coming months with  
a view to potentially investing further.
The focus on developing strategic 
partnerships is now resulting in a steadily 
growing pipeline of orders from partners in 
the UK, US and RoW. In particular, we have 
seen the growth in numbers of Magento 
partners in the US now referring business, 
and we have recently signed a major partner 
in Australia, where we have already seen the 
ﬁrst orders ﬂowing from this partnership.
In early October, we launched a white label 
partnership to test the market, selling email 
marketing into South America using a local 
language version of dotmailer. This will be the 
basis of further expansion into this large and 
growing market.
As part of the rebranding initiative some 
signiﬁcant features have been added to the 
dotmailer platform which the board believes 
will open up new sales opportunities and 
provide enhanced revenue possibilities from 
existing clients.
Demand for email marketing and marketing 
automation continues to be strong both in 
the UK and internationally and whilst the 
sector continues to be competitive the Board 
believes that the dotmailer platform is well 
placed to continue to generate strong organic 
growth in revenues over the coming year. 
The marketing initiatives 
to build our US presence 
are now starting to deliver 
a strong pipeline of new 
clients particularly in the 
mid-size online retail 
space which continues to 
be a core focus for 2015.
dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
24
Strategic report Cabbages & Roses 
Case study
Case study
Upmarket fashion and homewares retailer 
Cabbages & Roses does over two-thirds of its 
business online and considers effective customer 
communication to be one of its key differentiators. 
The company sought an email platform that could be 
integrated fully with its Magento ecommerce website 
solution, and would be effective, easy to use and 
reliable. They selected dotmailer and are delighted  
with the result.
We found that after just  
a year, the ROI on web sales 
compared to the campaign 
costs is over 5,500%.
Holly Leigh-Harvey,
Operations Director, Cabbages & Roses
oun W
dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
25
