 Chairman’s 
statement
Again, we are delighted to report that 
2013/14 has been another successful  
year for dotdigital group plc.
 
In the past year we have aligned our direct 
sales activities so that we now primarily 
focus on what we deﬁne as the mid-market 
for our Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) email 
platform, dotmailer. As a result, we have 
made good progress in signing larger 
clients with higher monthly spends who 
have a greater propensity to purchase 
ancillary services. A considerable amount 
of our sales effort this past year has also 
focused on exploiting the Magento sales 
channel. Magento is part of eBay Enterprise 
and has established itself as the world’s 
leading ecommerce platform and users 
of Magento tend to be high volume email 
senders and match the proﬁle of our mid-
market target customers.
Our North American operation has 
continued to grow and during this past 
year we have signed our largest US clients 
to date. Through a strong presence at 
the major trade shows in the US, there is 
growing recognition of the dotmailer brand, 
in particular in the Magento market. 
Frank Beechinor-Collins
Non-Executive Chairman
The dotmailer professional services division 
has also developed considerably in the past 
year, largely due to more effective account 
management and our focus on selling  
into larger customers.
Our decision during the last ﬁnancial year 
to exit our Agency business has been 
vindicated as the focus of management’s 
efforts on our core SaaS email business 
has ensured that dotdigital has continued 
to grow. 
The marketing and technical teams 
have been busy for the past six months 
developing the new brand identity for 
dotmailer as well as releasing the latest 
version of our dotmailer platform. This work 
has been well received by customers and 
partners alike and again demonstrates 
the business and our ability to sustain our 
technical competitive advantage in the 
email marketing industry. 
Our policy on acquisitions remains 
unchanged. Organic growth continues 
to be our focus but, from time to time, 
consider acquisition opportunities  
should they allow us to accelerate  
growth in a market or provide us with  
a technical advantage.
Governance
The Board puts strong emphasis on 
ensuring its effectiveness and the 
effectiveness of governance processes 
across the entire organisation. Monthly 
meetings are held with the Board and the 
Non-Executives are provided with detailed 
management information in advance of 
these meetings.
The remuneration, audit and risk 
committees meet regularly, ensuring the 
Non-Executive Board members are fully 
aware of potential issues in the business. 
The business holds a regular strategy 
review and these reviews include active 
involvement by the Non-Executive Board. 
The dotmailer services 
business has also 
developed considerably  
in the past year, largely 
due to more effective 
account management  
and our focus on selling 
into larger customers.
dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
2 An evolving Board
We continue to review our organisational 
structure to ensure we have the requisite 
skills to sustain growth and develop  
the business. 
The business has continued to ﬂourish 
under our CEO Peter Simmonds. As the 
business grows we have acknowledged 
that we need to broaden the skills and 
experience of the operational Board.  
To this end we have hired a number of 
executives from outside the business to 
ensure that we have the management 
capacity to achieve our objectives. 
In addition to the new executive 
appointments Milan Patel was promoted 
from Financial Controller to Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer this year and joined the Board. 
 All of the above underlines our 
commitment to effective succession 
planning. 
Our responsibility as a corporate citizen
dotdigital prides itself on creating a close 
working family of employees and we 
recognise diversity and equal opportunity 
as a way to treat employees and support 
them to reach their full potential. We have 
many examples of senior and long-standing 
employees who joined dotdigital in junior 
positions and have moved up through the 
business, growing with us. 
By aligning our goals with those of our 
clients, we consistently deliver products 
and services that ensure mutual beneﬁt 
and ultimately make both parties more 
successful. To this end we foster 
strong relationships within the business 
community, working closely with partners 
and suppliers. 
The dotdigital group is committed to 
working with local communities in the 
areas where we operate. We encourage 
and support employees volunteering in the 
areas of vocational skills and developing 
employability amongst young people. 
Through our charitable giving we support 
a number of national and international 
charities and these donations are evaluated 
by our employee-led dotcharity committee.
The Group maintains its commitment 
to its environmental responsibilities with 
emphasis on the Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 
philosophy across all ofﬁces, minimising our 
impact on the environment.
Outlook 
The outlook for dotdigital over the coming 
years is very promising with interesting 
opportunities both in the UK and overseas.
On behalf of all our stakeholders,  
I would like to thank the team at dotdigital 
for their fantastic contribution to another 
successful year. I would also like to say 
a special thank you to the Executive 
Management team for its continued 
commitment, hard work and passion  
in developing the business.
Frank Beechinor-Collins
Non-Executive Chairman
dotdigital group plc
Annual Report 2013/2014
3
