  2 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Chairman’ s
stat ement
With our well managed financial position, we have the 
financial flexibility to back our brands and to ensure that 
we use the capacity we have available to best effect. 
The board’s strategy remains to focus on being the major 
force in the range cooker market internationally and to use 
that to attract consumers to the wider product offering. 
We will enhance our marketing effort to support our 
product introductions and will take market opportunities 
that saw the acquisition of Mercury in 2009 and saw that 
of La Cornue, Heartland and Stanley in earlier years.
We have to take into account our pension scheme to 
which we have already provided £50 million in guarantees 
of contingent liabilities. We are finalising funding 
arrangements with the trustee taking account of the 
2008 actuarial valuation. We expect to make additional 
payments of £2 million into the scheme in 2010 and 2011. 
T otal pension contributions could equate to £10 million 
per annum from 2012 depending on the outturn of the 
2011 actuarial valuation.
In achieving these objectives the Group is dependent on 
the skills and commitment of its employees. It was an 
exceptionally difficult year in which short-time working 
was needed in some factories and staff reductions were 
made. The continuing enthusiasm and energy in the 
Group ensured that confidence grew over the year. The 
board is, of course, grateful to all the employees for their 
contributions. Helen Mahy left the board after six years. 
I should like to thank her in particular for her important 
contribution, notably in the development of our corporate 
governance practices.
Current trading
Economic uncertainties remain as markets seek to recover 
from the long and difficult recession and against that 
background we remain cautious and conservative in our 
trading and financial expectations. We have focused on 
having strong business processes and disciplines. We will 
continue to drive down costs and to generate cash as we 
did in 2009. In 2010 the Group will continue to keep capital 
expenditure below depreciation and to reduce inventory 
levels. The important benefits of integrating AGA and 
Rangemaster in the UK will show through. Overall the key 
factor is the extent of the revenue recovery. 
The board has thus taken the right steps to ensure the 
Group is best placed to take advantage of improved 
conditions while remaining cautious and able to continue 
with the defensive approach of 2009 that saw costs cut 
and cash generation set as a key driver. At present the 
board would hope that the current year will show a real 
improvement. A decision on dividend payments will be 
made when the earnings outlook becomes clearer.
The cold weather may have slowed short-term activity 
but it has also highlighted the virtues of our heat storage 
and stove products and home survey numbers are ahead 
of 2009 and confidence in the AGA shops is high. For 
Rangemaster the start of the year has been slower after 
the VAT rate assisted end of 2009 but the trend lines 
continue to be positive. For Fired Earth and Grange 
improvement plans covering both broadening of markets 
and cost reductions are well underway. Headed into the 
Spring the Group expects revenues to run ahead of the 
prior year.
John Coleman
Chairman
12th March 2010
