  4 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 5
Chief	
e x ecutiv e’ s
r e vie w
The Group continues to make the foundry and factory 
complex in Shropshire more efficient. It has ample capacity 
to produce above the targeted level.
KPI II: Grow sales of Rangemaster made cookers
2007 2008 2009
76,000 67,900 60,600
Rangemaster and our wider range cooker brands all proved 
resilient – with volumes lower but average selling prices up – 
and towards the end of 2009 orders were running well ahead 
of 2008 levels. Rangemaster was 14% down in order values 
at the half year but full year order values were just ahead 
of the prior year. The performance reflects the breadth of 
product and the international reach of Rangemaster – with 
sales on the continent where there is sustained expansion 
in France and now growth in Belgium and Holland and more 
recently Germany, being up. Ireland, in contrast, was again 
well down. The purchase of Mercury in August added a 
further modern style to our range and with new products to 
come to market this year under the Mercury brand aimed 
particularly at the independent kitchen specialist market - it 
is proving an important addition. 
The range cooker market in the UK is estimated to be around 
113,000 units per annum. The total UK equivalent premium 
built-in cooker market is larger. In 2010 Rangemaster and 
the related brands will emphasise the case for having the 
highly functional, attractive range at the heart of modern 
family life. Our efficient Leamington Spa factory has the 
capability of producing well above the targeted volumes. 
With higher volume expectations, notably with anticipated 
sales in North America of the new AGA Pro+ range, progress 
can be made in 2010 towards our performance objective.
Our cookware operations comprise AGA Cookware and 
Divertimenti and 2009 was a good year. Divertimenti has 
a new catalogue and has the potential to grow appreciably. 
The newly upgraded web shopping sites of both brands 
have been successful.
KPI III : Return Fired Earth and Grange to profit
Fired Earth specialises in tiles and paint. It had another 
tough year as consumers deferred major projects. Sales 
on a like-for-like basis were down 17% and did not show 
a marked improvement in the last quarter. Fired Earth has 
become tightly run and is admired for its quality and style. 
T o balance the business, Fired Earth has set out to ensure 
it attracts consumers looking for quality products for 
everyday purposes at appropriate prices. This development 
of diffusion lines, combined with the new catalogue and 
the provision of consumer credit, is expected to boost Fired 
Earth with a wider audience. Additionally, a move into fitted 
kitchens, with Charles Smallbone designed product with an 
affordable luxury message made by Grange, is an exciting 
development. The first kitchen in the range attracted the 
Editor’s prize at the House Beautiful 2009 Awards and 
features in our Marylebone High Street store and soon to 
be seen in our Adderbury and Cobham stores.
Grange similarly had a difficult year as revenues fell sharply 
- hitting the US design centre business particularly hard. 
Short time working was in place in the factories for much of 
the year. There was also a major production rationalisation 
programme in Lyon, France with three factories being 
merged into one. The confidence of the dealer base in 
the product range and prospects of Grange continues to 
improve. Orders at the start of 2010 are more encouraging. 
Particular effort will be made this year to raise Grange’s UK 
profile using the database resources of the Group.
One of the key strategic objectives and a key performance 
indicator for the Group remains to see Grange and Fired 
Earth return to profit and for the inter-relationships with the 
wider customer base to prove effective.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  6 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 7
KPI IV : International expansion with half the business 
to be outside the UK
The largest market for the Group is in the UK. The objective 
is to make overseas markets account for over half the 
business – up from the current 36%. On the continent we 
continue to progress where the Grange, La Cornue and 
Falcon brands are all well established.
In North America the Group set about revisiting its 
approach – accelerated by the three year decline in the 
appliance market which is now just bottoming out. We 
have integrated our activities under AGA Marvel to provide 
our overall market positioning as having available from 
Europe the best range cookers as with refrigeration “at 
its best” – made in North America at our new Greenville, 
Michigan factory. We are delighted with our new Greenville 
production facility which became fully operational in Spring 
2009 and has already received ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 
quality and environmental accreditation. It is producing at 
a substantially lower unit cost than was practical at our 
two previous facilities. We would like to acknowledge the 
excellent support of the State of Michigan in the successful 
delivery of the project. We have just launched the AGA 
Pro+ in Canada at C$4,000 - a Rangemaster made product 
with a single oven and self cleaning features aimed at a 
competitive price in the North American market. This is 
backed by a suite of appliances including refrigerators 
and dishwashers similar to that found in design centres in 
the UK. We feel that dealers can look to our hot and cold 
offering to anchor their sales efforts.
We look to markets less mature than the UK for our products 
to provide sustained sales impetus taking us towards our 
KPI.
KPI V : Leveraging the Group’s customer database
The Group’s contact with its customers is generated 
by advertising, direct marketing and through our retail 
operations. This continues through our service support for 
the products in the field – many of which last for decades. 
This all provides the Group with a large customer database 
in addition to that of dealers selling the Group’s products.
The Group has 670,000 customers on its UK database and 
nearly another 600,000 prospective customers who have 
contacted the Group. In 2009 the Group received nearly 
60,000 sales enquiries into the contact centre. It has nearly 
200,000 customers contactable by email. It has 120,000 
specifically AGA owners on the database – of which nearly 
18,000 were added in 2009. 
Web traffic increased across the brands in 2009 with AGA 
receiving over 700,000 visitors and Fired Earth nearly 
600,000 visitors. At the start of 2010, web enquiries and 
brochure requests have increased markedly and for Fired 
Earth and Rangemaster web traffic is up over 20%. The 
Group sees the development of customer contact and 
the development of closer links in the eyes of customers 
across the brands as an important source of growth in the 
years ahead.
KPI VI : Return on sales
The Group believes that by raising efficiencies while also 
investing in product that there is appreciable operational 
gearing available in the business. An initial target of a 
return on sales of 10% was set in 2007. Some of the 
Group’s operations achieved returns above that – but the 
average was below 10% when the recession impacted the 
Group. This has not deflected us from the belief that the 
brands and their strength with identifiable customer bases 
is such that returns at or above it – a peak cycle return on 
sales target is 12% - remain a reasonable expectation.
The new Fired Earth Tile Basics range 
comprises one hundred wall and floor 
tiles starting at 36p per tile, providing 
tiles for every budget.  6 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 7
Chief	e x ecutiv e’ s	r e vie w
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The new generation of Mercury 
products, manufactured in 
Leamington Spa by Rangemaster, adds 
to Mercury’s design icon status as a 
contemporary cooker suited to the 
minimalist look.
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 7  8 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 9
Raising efficiencies across the Group to improve 
operational gearing
During the recession the Group has accelerated plans 
to cut costs, raise efficiencies and improve operational 
gearing. In particular, structures have been streamlined 
further – as with AGA and Rangemaster and in the North 
American operations – production facilities integrated 
– as for AGA Marvel and Grange. Company-wide 
procurement strategies have helped control costs. Over 
the last two years the Group has reduced the cost base 
by over £9 million through such measures. In addition 
to major structural programmes it continues to identify 
and implement a comprehensive programme of process 
improvement initiatives which senior managers have 
identified.
Home energy management and new product 
investments
An underlying theme for the Group is investing in 
new product. A key area is looking into home energy 
management. The Group has the background and the 
technologies to play an important part in the changing 
approach to energy management in the home. The 
Government’s new initiatives to boost the renewable 
energy market will further stimulate interest. The electric 
AGA uses a small amount of energy over a long period 
and can store energy. This works well with the intermittent 
nature of wind and solar micro generation. The Rayburn is 
primarily an all-in-one cooker and boiler. Its burners can 
use biofuels : we have field trials with methane produced 
from biomass and a blended Bio kerosene oil. We are 
now linking Rayburns with wood burning stoves and solar 
collectors in a comprehensive home heating package. 
Our investment programmes align our products to the 
renewables markets as they develop. We aim to make 
our products more flexible – future-proofing purchasers 
so that they can, if not immediately then in due course, 
take advantage of the rapidly increasing output of micro 
generation and of reliability of non-fossil fuels. This has 
seen:
•  The introduction of the 13 amp electric AGA in 2005; 
made programmable in 2007;
•  The launch of the gas condensing boiler Rayburn in 
2006;
• Introduction of the programmable gas AGA in 2008.
•  The burner upgrade programmes for oil to electric and 
gas AGA models in 2009;
•  The launch of the remodelled Rayburn 600 Series in 
2009;
•  2010 will see the second generation of products to link 
energy from wood burning stoves and other renewable 
sources with Rayburn boilers providing back up.
Consumers are concerned to ensure that their homes 
remain warm and comfortable and that they have reliable 
energy sources throughout the year. This means that having 
more than one energy source in the home is particularly 
attractive. We expect the rapid growth in stove sales to 
continue. We sold over 20,000 stoves in 2009 and they 
are now the core activity of Stanley in Ireland and they are 
a growing part of sales in the UK.
A household with an AGA at the heart of the home will 
require appreciably fewer other household appliances or 
can use them far less. The AGA substitutes substantially 
for radiators, being itself a very efficient radiator – hence 
an AGA household could use less energy than one 
without. The AGA CO
2
 emission tonnages run at around 
four tonnes for an electric 3-oven product – half the output 
of a 4-person household. In due course it is likely that the 
AGA will link with energy sources generated at the point 
of use – the combined heat and power units; solar power 
and wind turbines.
Pension scheme funding
The Group continues to consider carefully its obligations 
to its defined benefit pension scheme which is large, 
reflecting the Group’s long industrial history in the 
Midlands. The scheme has around 14,000 members of 
which circa 650 are current employees.
Burner upgrades can make 
most existing AGA cookers 
programmable saving customers up to 
25% on fuel costs.  8 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 9
Chief	e x ecutiv e’ s	r e vie w
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The triennial valuation as at 31st December 2008 is close 
to finalisation. It is likely to show a deficit of well over £100 
million at a date when there was a £57.5 million surplus on 
an accounting basis. Rolled forward a year to 31st December 
2009, the actuarial deficit is considered to be potentially 
around £50 million above the accounting deficit of £40.5 
million. The Group has previously provided £50 million of 
guarantees in support of the Group’s potential obligation 
to the scheme in 2020. The Group currently expects to 
be asked to contribute an additional £2 million per annum 
in 2010 and 2011. From 2012 the Group expects to be 
asked to contribute around £10 million annually to meet 
the current service cost and deficit contributions or to 
add to the guarantees already provided. The 2011 triennial 
valuation is expected to be concluded before these cash 
contributions or additional guarantees are required.
The Group continues to work hard and closely with the 
trustee of the scheme to ensure that the obligations to 
members are met and the costs to the Group are carefully 
monitored and managed as the scheme moves towards 
the targeted self-sufficiency position in 2020.
As part of the management of pension costs, following 
consultations, the current member pensionable salaries 
were frozen. This gave rise to a curtailment gain in 2009 
against the previous IAS 19 valuation assumptions for future 
salary inflation when applied to higher paid employees of 
£3.8 million and will give rise to a curtailment gain in 2010 
of around £15 million when applied to all other current 
members.
The Group would like to reduce the contingent risks the 
scheme creates – should markets make that sensible 
economically for all relevant parties.
Finance strategy
The Group maintains its conservative approach to finances 
in light of the difficult markets and the scale of the Group’s 
pension scheme. The Group looked to maintain profits 
during the recession while investing carefully in product 
for the future.
The Group had moved to a net cash position at the end of 
2007 and we took further action to manage the business 
through a severe economic downturn. We set the objective 
of having more cash at the end of the year than at the start. 
It is, therefore, pleasing against this background to report 
cash of £28.0 million compared to £5.8 million. This gives 
us a strong position upon which we can build.
Revenue
Group revenues decreased by 12.3% to £245.0 million 
from £279.4 million in 2008. In constant currency the 
revenue decrease was 15.7%. Second half revenues of 
£127.2 million were down 5.3% from £134.3 million which 
was much improved on the first half when revenues of 
£117.8 million were down 18.8% from the £145.1 million 
reported in the first half of 2008. Of total revenues 36% 
were outside the UK. 
Operating profit
The operating loss for the year was £1.5 million (2008: 
profit £11.1 million). The first half loss of £1.7 million was 
partly offset by a small second half profit. The results for 
the year reflect the significant fall in revenues. We took 
action early to address the revenue decrease by reducing 
headcount by a further 200 to below 2,600 following on 
from a reduction of around 400 in 2008. Non-recurring 
costs in the year totalled £3.6 million (2008: £5.3 million). 
The further reorganisations undertaken in the year were 
at a cost of £2.8 million. T aken together, cost cutting 
measures implemented in the last two years have led to 
cost savings of over £9 million.  10 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 11
The Group’s woodburning stoves have 
re-emerged as a key appliance in the 
efficient modern home – providing 
a degree of independence as an 
additional eco-friendly heating source.
Finance income
Net finance income for the year was £0.2 million (2008: 
£3.2 million). The movement was principally due to 
lower interest income resulting from the substantial 
reduction in cash balances following the £140 million 
cash return to shareholders in 2008, lower interest rates 
on cash deposits offset by £0.8 million of interest on a tax 
repayment received.
T axation
The Group’s tax charge was nil on profits before tax of 
£0.5 million. The Group considered the level of tax paid 
for years yet to be finalised with the revenue and sought 
a tax repayment which was received in the second half. 
There was altogether a net tax repayment of £4.0 million 
relating to prior tax years.
Moving forward the Group expects to pay tax at around 
the UK standard rate of 28% once the benefit of tax losses 
arising during the recession have been utilised.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 2.5 pence (2008: 14.4 
pence) based on an average number of shares in issue of 
69.2 million (2008: 85.9 million). 
Dividends
While no interim dividend has been paid or a final dividend 
proposed for 2009, the board will continue to keep this 
under review and intends to return to paying a dividend as 
soon as it is appropriate to do so.
Cashflow
One of the most encouraging features of the year was 
the cashflow from operational activities which at £25.3 
million (2008: £4.5 million) was £20.8 million higher. The 
increase was mainly due to action taken in the first part 
of the year to destock in response to the downturn – the 
value of inventory held by the Group fell in the year by 
£15.3 million. Particular focus was also placed on debtor 
and creditor management across the Group. The net 
inflow from working capital was £22.9 million in the year 
(2008: outflow of £8.9 million).
New capital expenditure projects in the year totalled £3.4 
million which makes the net cash flow on capital items, 
including intangibles, £8.1 million in the year. This figure 
includes the £2.8 million final payment on the AGA Marvel 
factory in the US. The depreciation and amortisation of 
intangibles charge in 2009 was £8.7 million (2008: £8.1 
million).
The resulting net cash position at 31st December 2009 
was £28.0 million (2008: £5.8 million).  10 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 11
Chief	e x ecutiv e’ s	r e vie w
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Confidence and creativity - Fired 
Earth’s collage collection from the Tile 
Basics range together with Fired Earth 
brassware.
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 11  12 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 13
A B
C D
The new Divertimenti Directory and 
website have brought many new 
customers to Divertimenti – the much 
loved cook’s emporium.
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT STRATEGY TO MITIGATE
Economic conditions
The economic environment may impact 
consumer spending plans.
A swift economic recovery may increase 
raw material prices.
A lack of consumer confidence may 
reduce Group sales, primarily of 
consumer appliances and household 
products impacting production levels and 
profitability.
Reduced profitability and availability of 
components.
•  The Group monitors economic conditions in 
particular housing market trends.
•  The Group seeks to diversify sales away 
from the UK to reduce individual market 
dependency.
•  Internal processes continually monitor 
prices and the availability of raw materials.
Competition
Competitors introduce upgraded products 
and add to marketing programmes.
Downward pressure on pricing if sector 
accepts lower margins.
Market share could be lost to competitors 
without continuing product innovation and 
strong marketing support.
Reduced demand for our products and 
negative operational gearing if we were to 
become less price competitive.
•  Introduce new products that are well 
researched and market tested.
•  Investment in new product development and 
design capabilities.
•  Monitor our market position and competitor 
strategies.
•  Constant value engineering programmes to 
be price competitive.
Intellectual property
Failure to identify the violation of our rights 
could lead to unfair competition.
Others may imitate our products breaching 
our patents, trademarks and copyrights 
damaging our brands and profitability.
•  Monitor the market to identify breaches of 
our proprietary rights.
•  T ake legal action wherever appropriate.
Customer/supplier relationships
Some key relationships are central to 
trading performance.
Loss of critical suppliers/ customers could 
have a material impact on individual 
company volumes.
Interruption to supply can stop production 
and impact profitability.
•  Sales teams meet regularly with senior 
management of key customers.
•  Regular monitoring of customer service.
•  The supply chain team holds regular review 
meetings with suppliers.
•  Where possible we maintain multiple supply 
sources.
•  Group seeks to avoid one sales account 
or supplier being material to overall 
performance.
Manufacturing
External events, fires or workforce action 
could disrupt production.
Manufacturing techniques and processes 
can become outdated.
Disruption to manufacturing for a sustained 
period can impact profits.
Product lines age or become obsolete or 
uneconomic.  
•  Disaster recovery plans are in place at all 
units.
•  Manufacturing technology is shared so that 
best practice levels are maintained.
•  Maintain regular communication with 
workforce/unions.
•  Investment in new technologies and 
equipment is prioritised.
•  Ensure business operating standards are 
high as seen in ISO 9001 : 2008 and ISO 
14001 : 2004 accreditations.  
