  2 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 3
The new generation Rayburn 600, an 
all-in-one cooker and boiler, reinforces 
our position in the home heating 
market.
Overview
The Group responded quickly and well to the downturn 
in the consumer markets caused by the recession which 
made 2009 a tough year. The Group was well placed to do 
so having maintained a net cash position after returning 
£140 million in cash to shareholders in May 2008 
following the well timed Foodservice disposal at the end 
of 2007. The board prioritised remaining profitable and 
having more cash at the end of the year than at the start 
thereby ensuring that the Group’s long-term financing 
arrangements organised in early 2008 remained unaltered. 
The stable financial base meant that the Group was free 
to direct its energies to work to integrate operations and 
to have a set of disciplined business processes that apply 
across the Group. These steps helped to reduce costs 
in a way that would be in the long-term interests of the 
Group and to sustain product investment, positioning the 
business for an upturn.
Trading performance in 2009
2009 saw sharp falls in demand in the first half before 
levelling out and, in some areas, strengthening later in the 
year. These trends were reflected in first half sales down 
18.8% and sales down 12.3% for the full year. This put 
2009 revenues at £245.0 million down from £279.4 
million in 2008. EBITDA (pre non-recurring costs) fell 
from £24.6 million to £12.6 million. There was an operating 
loss in the first half of £1.7 million and a small operating 
profit in the second half. Non-recurring rationalisation 
costs were incurred in the year of £3.6 million primarily 
from business integration costs and provisions against 
the carrying value of properties no longer required after 
the integration. With net finance income in the year and 
with pension credits arising, there was an overall profit 
before tax in the year. Given the sharp profit fall and the 
continuing market uncertainties the board concluded it 
would not be appropriate to pay a dividend in respect of 
2009.
Strategy for 2010
The 300 years of innovation we highlighted last year put 
us in good stead to deal with the current economic cycle. 
The warmth felt towards our key brands led by AGA came 
through strongly in the year – notably through the 300th 
anniversary of the first smelting of iron ore with coke at 
the AGA foundry which is where the Industrial Revolution 
began. Our confidence that the power of our brands will 
drive strong performance remains. The market conditions 
of 2009, however, required us to modify our ambitions for 
the business in the short-term and focus on cutting costs 
and cash generation to ensure we emerged stronger from 
the recession. We now have new opportunities to improve 
further our market positions.
Our key objectives are:
•  T o continue to grow and create new markets for 
our range cookers and cooker/boilers. The board 
sees energy management in the home - seen in new 
Government initiatives to boost renewable energy - as 
a major theme for the years ahead and believes that the 
product offering it has been developing over the last 
decade is particularly well attuned to future consumer 
requirements.
•  T o widen the position of range cookers in the UK and 
Ireland and on the continent as being at the heart of family 
life and show that the look and functionality of the range 
cooker brings benefits over built-in equivalents which 
make up the larger part of the market.
•  T o become a significant force in the North American 
appliance market under the AGA Marvel brand – 
highlighting the best of European style range cooking 
and USA made undercounter refrigeration.
•  T o use the high level of consumer response we receive, 
to look to all our brands to increase the overall sales 
opportunities in the home by effective customer 
relationship management. 
