 Results for 2005
The	 Group	 produced	 a	 strong	 performance	 in	 2005	 delivering	 an	 operating	 profit	 (before	 exceptional	 items	 and	 mark-to-market	 adjustments	 on	 derivative	 contracts)	 of	 £208m,	 a	 substantial	 improvement	 on	 the	 previous	 year’s	 performance.	 EBITDA	 of	 £239m	 was	 £19m	 better	 than	 the	 forecast	 £220m	 EBITDA	 (before	 exceptional	 items	 and	 mark-to-market	 adjustments	 on	 derivative	 contracts)	 included	 in	 our	 Listing	 Particulars	 which	 were	 published	 in	 October	 2005	 and	 updated	 on	 1 1	 November	 2005.	 Including	 exceptional	 items	 and	 mark-to-market	 adjustments	 would	 increase	 both	 operating	 profit	 and	 EBITDA	 by	 £146m.
Returns to Shareholders
In	 our	 2005	 Listing	 Particulars	 the	 Company	 put	 forward	 Drax	 as	 a	 “cash	 conversion”	 story.	 It	 laid	 out	 its	 intention	 to	 make	 distributions	 to	 shareholders	 in	 the	 form	 of	 an	 annual	 base	 dividend	 of	 £50m	 (payable	 in	 line	 with	 normal	 listed	 company	 practice)	 and,	 in	 addition,	 to	 distribute	 substantially	 all	 of	 any	 remaining	 cash	 flow	 subject	 to	 the	 availability	 of	 reserves	 and	 after	 making	 provision	 for	 debt	 payments,	 debt	 service	 requirements	 (if	 any),	 capital	 expenditure,	 and	 other	 expected	 business	 requirements.
In	 respect	 of	 our	 base	 dividend,	 we	 intend	 to	 pay		 an	 interim	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 six	 months		 to	 30	 June	 2006	 of	 4	 pence	 per	 share	 being	 approximately	 £16.3m.	 This	 will	 be	 paid	 in		 Autumn	 2006.
As	 regards	 the	 additional	 distribution,	 work	 has	 commenced	 to	 identify	 the	 most	 appropriate	 method	 for	 returning	 surplus	 cash.	 We	 expect	 to	 advise	 shareholders	 of	 the	 proposed	 method	 of	 return	 at	 our	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	 May,	 followed	 by	 an	 indication	 of	 the	 likely	 range	 of	 distribution,	 timing	 and	 any	 shareholder	 approval	 process	 in	 a	 trading	 update	 given	 at	 the	 end	 of		 June	 2006.
Board Developments
In	 January	 2005,	 Gordon	 Boyd	 joined	 the	 Board	 as	 Finance	 Director,	 from	 British	 Energy.
In	 April	 2005,	 Gerald	 Wingrove,	 who	 had	 joined	 Drax	 with	 me	 in	 July	 2003	 and	 become	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 December	 that	 year,	 left	 the	 business.	 I	 should	 like	 to	 take	 this	 opportunity	 to	 acknowledge	 his	 contribution	 and	 to	 thank	 him	 for	 all	 his	 hard	 work.	 In	 September	 2005,	 we	 welcomed	 Dorothy	 Thompson	 as	 our	 new	 Chief	 Executive.	 Dorothy,	 formerly	 head	 of	 InterGen’s	 UK	 and	 European	 business,	 brings	 to	 Drax	 her	 extensive	 knowledge		 of	 the	 power	 industry	 in	 general	 and	 of	 gas-fired	 generation	 in	 particular.	 Gordon Horsfield
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
Through	 the	 ownership	 of	 the	 largest,	 cleanest	 and	 most	 efficient	 coal-fired	 power	 station	 in	 the	 country,	 with	 a	 nominal	 output	 capacity	 of	 3,960MW,	 the	 Group	 provides	 power	 sufficient	 to	 meet	 around		 7%	 of	 the	 electricity	 needs	 of	 the	 UK.
The	 year	 2005	 was	 transformational:	 it	 saw	 the	 Group	 refinanced	 and	 its	 shares	 listed	 for	 the	 first	 time	 on		 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange.	 Accordingly,	 this	 is	 the	 first	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 for	 Drax	 Group	 plc	 which	 became	 the	 holding	 company	 of	 the	 Drax	 group	 of	 companies	 on	 15	 December	 2005.	 Refinancing and Listing
In	 March	 2005,	 Drax	 Group	 Limited	 set	 out	 its	 proposals	 to	 refinance	 and	 list	 the	 business	 by	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year.	 The	 reasons	 were	 clear	 to	 the	 Board.	 The	 prevailing	 capital	 structure	 was	 restricting	 the	 ability	 of	 management	 to	 develop	 its	 trading	 and	 business	 strategy	 and	 in	 consequence	 management	 efforts	 to	 enhance	 shareholder	 value	 were	 being	 inappropriately	 constrained.	 Throughout	 the	 year	 in	 a	 series	 of	 investor	 roadshows,	 letters,	 meetings	 and	 discussions	 the	 Board	 outlined	 and	 developed	 its	 proposals	 to	 align	 the	 trading,	 operational,	 and	 financial	 strategies	 to	 deliver	 greater	 shareholder	 value.	 Much	 effort	 was	 put	 into	 engaging	 with	 investors,	 seeking	 their	 understanding		 of	 the	 plans,	 and	 receiving	 their	 feedback	 directly	 and	 through	 their	 representatives,	 all	 of	 which	 helped	 shape	 the	 final	 proposals.	 Whilst	 conceptually	 straightforward,	 the	 Refinancing	 and	 Listing	 were	 technically	 difficult		 to	 implement,	 requiring	 very	 high	 levels	 of	 positive	 shareholder	 and	 lender	 approvals	 within	 what	 was		 then	 a	 complex	 capital	 structure.
During	 the	 Autumn	 of	 2005	 three	 separate	 indicative	 offers	 were	 made	 for	 the	 business.	 The	 Board	 assessed	 each	 of	 them	 against	 the	 same	 criteria:	 value,	 deliverability	 and	 timeliness.	 Having	 regard	 to	 these	 criteria,	 and	 to	 the	 views	 expressed	 by	 investors	 directly,	 indirectly	 through	 their	 representatives,	 and	 significantly	 through	 their	 votes,	 the	 Board	 with	 the	 support	 of	 its	 advisers	 concluded	 that	 the	 Refinancing	 and	 Listing	 was	 the	 best	 option	 and	 the	 bids	 were	 either	 rejected	 or	 fell	 away.	 The	 Group	 now	 enjoys	 a	 robust	 and	 simple	 capital	 structure	 appropriate	 to	 a	 business	 operating	 within	 commodity	 markets	 and	 its	 shares	 trade	 in	 a	 transparent	 and	 liquid	 market.	 I	 am	 pleased	 to	 note	 that	 the	 Refinancing	 and	 Listing	 delivered	 the	 expected	 investment	 grade	 ratings	 for	 the	 Group	 debt	 and	 for	 the	 principal	 operating	 subsidiary,	 Drax	 Power	 Limited.	 The	 resulting	 credit	 standing	 with	 trading	 counterparties,	 together	 with	 our	 enhanced	 ability	 to	 provide	 credit	 support	 where	 necessary,	 are	 already	 delivering	 significant	 trading	 and	 operational	 benefits.
On	 15	 December	 2005,	 Charles	 Berry	 and	 Jamie	 Dundas	 joined	 the	 Company	 as	 additional	 non-
executive	 directors.	 Charles	 has	 extensive	 experience	 in	 the	 UK	 power	 sector,	 joining	 Drax	 from	 ScottishPower	 where	 he	 was	 appointed	 to	 the	 board	 in	 1999.	 Jamie	 brings	 excellent	 City	 experience	 and	 experience	 from	 his	 current	 membership	 of	 the	 Boards	 of	 two	 FTSE	 100	 companies.	 Each	 of	 the	 above	 Board	 appointments	 was	 made	 following	 a	 recruitment	 exercise	 carried	 out	 by	 external	 search	 consultants.	 As	 foreshadowed	 in	 our	 Listing	 Particulars,	 my	 own	 role	 as	 executive	 Chairman	 came	 to	 an	 end	 on		 7	 March	 2006	 and	 is	 now	 that	 of	 a	 non-executive	 Chairman.	 The	 Board	 comprises	 eight	 directors:	 three	 executives	 and	 five	 non-executives,	 of	 which	 four	 are	 deemed	 to	 be	 independent	 under	 The	 Combined	 Code	 on	 Corporate	 Governance.
Investor Relations
In	 the	 course	 of	 the	 Refinancing	 and	 Listing	 process	 during	 2005,	 and	 so	 as	 to	 keep	 the	 then	 current	 and	 potential	 investors	 informed	 of	 the	 progress	 of	 the	 business,	 we	 undertook	 four	 investor	 roadshows		 in	 both	 the	 UK	 and	 US,	 supplemented	 by	 formal	 investor	 presentations	 and	 a	 number	 of	 written	 communications.	 The	 benefits	 flowing	 from	 the		 high	 quality	 relationships	 developed	 with	 our	 then	 investor	 base	 have	 not	 been	 lost	 on	 the	 Board.	 Inevitably,	 since	 the	 Listing	 last	 December,	 there	 has	 been	 a	 material	 change	 in	 the	 composition	 of	 our	 shareholder	 register.	 We	 intend	 to	 maintain	 and	 develop	 the	 high	 standards	 for	 investor	 relations	 that	 we	 set	 ourselves	 in	 2005.	 To	 this	 end	 we	 already	 have	 plans	 in	 place	 to	 meet	 our	 current	 major	 investors	 during	 March	 2006.
Our People
The	 sustained	 commitment	 and	 dedication	 of	 all	 our	 employees	 has	 been	 a	 crucial	 part	 of	 our	 success	 over	 the	 last	 three	 years.	 The	 old	 and	 new	 skills	 brought	 to	 Drax	 combined	 as	 one	 team	 and	 their	 efforts	 against	 the	 backdrop	 of	 improving	 markets	 has	 seen	 the	 business	 develop	 strongly.	 Our	 people	 at	 Drax	 rose	 to	 the	 new	 challenges	 and	 opportunities	 posed	 by	 the	 impending	 Refinancing	 and	 Listing.	 I	 should	 like	 to	 thank	 all	 of	 them	 for	 their	 contribution,	 flexibility	 and	 enthusiasm	 in	 what	 proved	 to	 be	 an	 eventful	 and	 successful	 year.
Gordon Horsfield
Chairman
7	 March	 2006
a year of transformation____________ As	 a	 result	 of	 a	 successful	 Refinancing	 and	 Listing	 the	 Group	 now	 enjoys	 a	 robust	 and	 simple	 capital	 structure	 appropriate	 to	 a	 business	 operating	 within	 commodity	 markets.
Chairman’s	 Statement
  Drax Group plc 	 	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2005
