 early returns realised____________ Investment	 in	 plant	 management	 and	 maintenance	 has	 delivered	 improved	 plant	 performance	 which	 directly	 translates	 into	 improved	 safety,	 availability	 and	 reliability.
Chief Executive’s  
Statement
Dorothy Thompson
Chief	 Executive
Introduction
In	 2005,	 commodity	 market	 developments	 dominated	 the	 UK	 energy	 landscape.	 Energy	 commodity	 prices	 have	 been	 strong,	 led	 by	 the	 price	 of	 crude	 oil.	 Natural	 gas	 prices	 were	 particularly	 high	 towards	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year,	 influenced	 by	 oil	 and	 a	 tighter	 demand/supply	 balance	 as	 the	 UK	 moved	 to	 a	 greater	 reliance	 on	 imported	 gas.	 High	 gas	 prices	 have	 meant	 that	 gas-fired	 generation	 became	 the	 principal	 price-
setting	 plant	 in	 the	 power	 market	 and	 had	 a	 strong	 upward	 influence	 on	 the	 power	 price.	 The	 year		 also	 saw	 the	 introduction	 of	 the	 EU	 Emissions	 Trading	 Scheme	 with	 carbon	 becoming	 a	 traded	 commodity	 and	 a	 new	 cost	 to	 fossil	 fuelled	 	 power	 plant,	 so	 also	 influencing	 the	 price	 of	 	 power	 upwards.
Against	 this	 background	 of	 strong	 commodity	 markets,	 Drax	 began	 to	 realise	 some	 early	 returns	 from	 investments	 in	 plant	 management	 and	 maintenance.	 The	 improvement	 of	 plant	 performance	 compared	 to	 2004	 was	 very	 positive	 and	 directly	 translated	 into	 improved	 safety,	 availability	 and	 reliability.
Energy Sales and Other Income
In	 the	 year,	 Drax	 Power	 made	 net	 sales	 of	 23.2TWh	 (2004:	 22.9TWh)	 of	 electricity	 at	 an	 average	 capture	 price	 of	 £33.9/MWh	 (2004:	 £22.5/MWh).	 The	 capture	 price	 achieved	 reflects	 the	 impact	 of	 power	 sold	 forward	 in	 2003	 and	 2004	 for	 delivery	 in	 2005,	 as	 well	 as	 market	 prices	 prevailing	 in	 2005.	 Power	 prices	 rose	 significantly	 during	 2005	 as	 reflected	 in	 the	 Drax	 capture	 price.	 For	 example,	 the	 price	 of	 the	 forward	 contract	 for	 power	 delivered		 in	 the	 six	 months	 starting	 October	 2005	 rose	 49%	 between	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 year	 and	 the	 start	 	 of	 delivery	 in	 October.	 Drax	 makes	 sales	 of	 other	 products	 and	 services	 as	 well	 as	 contracted	 power.	 These	 include	 ancillary	 services	 provided	 to	 the	 national	 grid,	 Renewables	 Obligation	 Certificates	 (ROCs),	 Levy	 Exemption	 Certificates	 (LECs),	 Sulphur	 Emissions	 Allowances	 and	 marketable	 by-products	 from	 our	 generating	 activities,	 namely	 ash	 and	 gypsum.	 In	 2005,	 these	 activities	 generated	 net	 sales	 of	 £32m.
Fuel Procurement
Coal Drax	 burnt	 approximately	 9.3	 million	 tonnes	 of	 coal	 in	 2005,	 with	 around	 60%	 being	 sourced	 from	 the	 UK	 and	 40%	 internationally.	 During	 2005,	 we	 paid	 an	 average	 price	 of	 £37 .3/tonne	 (2004:	 £32.7/tonne)	 for	 our	 coal,	 including	 the	 cost	 of	 delivery	 to	 the	 power	 station.	 International	 coal	 prices	 fell	 from	 	 a	 peak	 of	 US$75/tonne	 early	 in	 the	 year	 to	 about	 	 US$54/tonne	 at	 the	 close.	 To	 increase	 our	 flexibility	 to	 import	 coal	 we	 increased	 our	 contracted	 port	 capacity	 in	 2005.	 	 We	 have	 also	 worked	 with	 our	 rail	 freight	 suppliers	 to	 improve	 logistics	 between	 the	 ports	 and	 mines	 from	 which	 our	 coal	 is	 delivered.
Biomass – Naturally Grow N Fuel As	 well	 as	 coal,	 Drax	 burns	 renewable	 biomass	 material	 which	 has	 the	 twin	 benefits		 of	 reducing	 CO
2
	 emissions	 and	 providing	 an	 additional	 revenue	 source	 through	 the	 sales	 of	 ROCs	 and	 LECs.	 During	 2005	 we	 burnt	 over	 230,000	 tonnes	 of	 biomass	 compared	 with	 95,000	 tonnes	 in	 2004.	 We	 	 made	 significant	 progress	 during	 the	 year	 in	 the	 development	 of	 energy	 crops	 to	 be	 grown	 by	 local	 farmers.	 Contracts	 are	 being	 arranged	 to	 grow	 and	 to	 deliver	 energy	 crops	 over	 the	 next	 decade.	 Work	 continues	 to	 source	 additional	 energy	 crops	 and	 other	 cost	 effective	 biomass.
e missio Ns 
On	 1	 January	 2005	 the	 EU	 Emissions	 Trading	 Scheme	 in	 respect	 of	 CO
2
	 emissions	 allowances	 was	 implemented.	 Phase	 I	 of	 the	 scheme	 covers	 2005–
2007	 and	 Phase	 II	 will	 cover	 2008–2012.	 Drax	 has	 an	 annual	 allocation	 granted	 by	 the	 UK	 Government	 	 of	 14.55	 million	 tonnes	 of	 allowances	 in	 Phase	 I.	 In	 2005	 we	 purchased	 a	 further	 6.3	 million	 tonnes	 of	 allowances	 as	 power	 was	 generated	 at	 volumes	 beyond	 those	 supported	 by	 the	 allocation.	 Carbon	 prices	 rose	 through	 2005,	 opening	 the	 year	 at	 around	 €8/tonne	 and	 closing	 at	 over	 €20/tonne.	 In	 October	 2005,	 new	 Integrated	 Pollution	 Prevention	 and	 Control	 regulations	 were	 implemented	 which	 allow	 the	 trading	 of	 allowances	 for	 certain	 emissions	 including	 SO
2
	 and	 NO
X
.	 Drax’s	 allocation	 of	 SO
2
	 and	 NO
X
	 allowances	 for	 2005	 were	 sufficient	 to	 cover	 generation.	 No	 purchases	 were	 required.	 Indeed,	 as	 Drax	 is	 fully	 equipped	 with	 flue	 gas	 desulphurisation,	 optimisation	 of	 emissions	 has	 resulted	 in	 tradeable	 surplus	 SO 2	 allowances.	 In	 2005,	 Drax	 completed	 	 the	 first	 SO 2	 trade	 and	 continues	 to	 transact	 in	 	 the	 market.
Chief	 Executive’s	 Statement
“To	 increase	 our	 flexibility	 to	 import	 coal,	 we	 increased	 our	 contracted	 port	 capacity	 in	 2005.	 We	 have	 also	 worked	 with	 our	 rail	 freight	 suppliers	 to	 improve	 logistics	 between	 the	 ports	 and	 mines	 from	 which	 our	 coal	 is	 delivered.”
  Drax Group plc 	 	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2005 Trading
The	 trading	 function	 covers	 all	 the	 commodity	 aspects	 of	 our	 operations	 including	 power,	 	 fuel,	 CO
2
	 emissions	 allowances,	 renewable	 generation	 incentives,	 and	 grid	 services.	 The	 principal	 objectives	 of	 our	 trading	 strategy	 are	 to	 optimise	 the	 physical	 inputs	 and	 outputs	 of	 the	 plant,	 and	 to	 enhance	 the	 value	 of	 the	 business	 while	 delivering	 some	 stability	 in	 value	 through	 commodity	 price	 cycles.	 An	 important	 aspect	 of	 capturing	 value	 is	 exploiting	 the	 optionality	 of	 the	 power	 plant	 through	 its	 flexibility.	 In	 the	 short	 term,	 our	 trading	 strategy	 focuses		 on	 ensuring	 that	 our	 output	 is	 sold,	 in	 a	 way	 that	 	 adds	 value	 to	 market	 prices,	 for	 each	 period	 where	 market	 prices	 exceed	 our	 marginal	 cost	 of	 production.	 In	 the	 liquid	 forward	 power	 market,	 which	 generally	 trades	 over	 two	 Winter	 and	 two	 Summer	 seasons,	 our	 objective	 is	 to	 capture	 better	 than	 market	 power	 prices	 whilst	 making	 steady	 sales	 across	 a	 range	 of	 counterparties	 and	 hedging	 the	 related	 coal	 and	 CO
2
	 emissions	 allowances	 requirements	 of	 the	 power	 sales.	 In	 the	 medium	 to	 long	 term	 our	 objective	 is	 to	 transact	 deals,	 at	 attractive	 prices,	 that	 provide	 a	 hedge	 to	 the	 business.	 We	 transacted	 several	 structured	 deals	 in	 2005	 which	 combined	 sales	 	 of	 power	 with	 purchases	 of	 coal	 and,	 in	 some	 instances,	 carbon	 on	 a	 forward	 basis	 for	 up	 to	 	 two	 years.	 Drax’s	 access	 to	 commodity	 markets	 was	 greatly	 constrained	 during	 the	 year	 by	 the	 relatively	 poor	 credit	 status	 of	 Drax	 Power	 Limited,	 the	 trading	 counterparty.	 This	 was	 a	 result	 of	 the	 high	 leverage	 of	 the	 Drax	 Group.	 On	 the	 Refinancing	 of	 the	 Group	 on	 15	 December	 2005,	 the	 credit	 status	 of	 Drax	 Power	 Limited	 was	 greatly	 improved	 as	 reflected	 in	 the	 investment	 grade	 rating	 granted	 to	 the	 entity	 by	 Standard	 &	 Poor’s.	 Operations 
Healt H a Nd s a Fety Health	 and	 safety	 remains	 our	 highest	 priority.	 	 The	 year	 2005	 was	 the	 first	 full	 year	 operating	 the	 DuPont™	 STOP™	 behaviour	 based	 safety	 system	 which	 we	 have	 implemented	 as	 a	 vehicle	 to	 deliver	 a	 step	 change	 in	 safety	 culture.	 In	 addition	 we	 have	 focused	 on	 developing	 simple	 and	 clear	 systems,	 improved	 communication,	 detailed	 safety	 incident	 reporting	 and	 follow-up,	 and	 we	 have	 introduced	 weekly	 safety	 meetings	 for	 all	 operational	 staff.	 The	 contractor	 interface	 has	 been	 strengthened	 with	 a	 dedicated	 team	 from	 Drax.	 Overall,	 recordable	 personal	 injury	 rates	 have	 reduced	 by	 39%	 	 compared	 to	 2004.	 l oad Fa Ctor a Nd a vaila Bility The	 plant	 load	 factor	 for	 the	 year	 was	 73.9%	 before	 net	 power	 purchases	 (2004:	 69.1%	 after	 net	 power	 purchases)	 with	 an	 availability	 of	 87 .2%	 (2004:	 81.3%).	 We	 only	 seek	 to	 generate	 electricity	 when	 it	 is	 profitable	 to	 do	 so.	 Thus	 we	 target	 profitability	 rather	 than	 production	 volumes.	 A	 key	 performance	 metric	 for	 the	 plant	 is	 availability.	 Last	 year	 saw	 improvements	 in	 both	 the	 planned	 and	 forced	 outage	 rates,	 with	 a	 strong	 downward	 trend	 in	 forced	 outage	 rate	 over	 the	 four	 quarters	 of	 2005,	 resulting	 in	 the	 best	 full	 year	 performance	 since	 1997 .	 The	 forced	 outage	 reduction	 programme	 has	 included	 the	 establishment	 of	 cross	 functional	 reliability	 teams	 focused	 on	 specific	 plant	 areas	 in	 the	 first	 quarter	 of	 2005	 and	 the	 adoption	 of	 data	 driven	 processes	 to	 analyse	 historic	 failures	 to	 deliver	 improvements	 in	 reliability.	 For	 planned	 outages,	 a	 milestone	 planning	 process	 has	 been	 implemented	 and	 has	 already	 resulted	 in	 some	 performance	 improvements.	 An	 integrated	 Drax/
contractor	 outage	 planning	 team	 was	 established	 during	 the	 final	 quarter	 of	 2005	 with	 a	 view	 to	 securing	 further	 performance	 improvements	 in	 2006	 and	 beyond.
iN vestme Nt i N o peratio Ns We	 continue	 to	 invest	 in	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 with	 four	 main	 objectives	 in	 mind:	 to	 meet	 future	 environmental	 and	 safety	 legislative	 requirements;	 to	 facilitate	 fuel	 diversity;	 to	 support	 reductions	 	 in	 the	 forced	 outage	 rate;	 and	 to	 improve	 	 plant	 efficiency.	 To	 meet	 the	 2008	 Large	 Combustion	 Plant	 Directive	 (“LCPD”)	 requirements	 for	 oxides	 of	 nitrogen	 emissions	 standards	 we	 have	 a	 programme	 to	 install	 Boosted	 Over	 Fire	 Air	 (“BOFA”)	 equipment	 on	 each	 of	 the	 six	 units.	 During	 2005,	 two	 units	 have	 had	 BOFA	 installed;	 one	 of	 the	 units	 has	 been	 commissioned	 and	 has	 successfully	 completed	 all	 of	 its	 performance	 tests,	 meeting	 in	 full	 the	 design	 specification.	 Construction	 will	 start	 in	 2006	 to	 install	 BOFA	 systems	 on	 the	 remaining	 four	 units		 in	 time	 for	 the	 2008	 change.	 New	 process	 	 control	 systems,	 together	 with	 BOFA	 and	 new	 instrumentation,	 designed	 to	 deliver	 continuous	 emissions	 monitoring	 across	 the	 units,	 will	 ensure	 compliance	 with	 LCPD	 limits	 for	 oxides	 of	 sulphur	 and	 nitrogen,	 and	 particulates.
Chief	 Executive’s	 Statement
“Last	 year	 saw	 improvements	 in	 both	 the	 planned	 and	 forced	 outage	 	 rates,	 with	 a	 strong	 downward	 trend	 in	 forced	 outage	 rate	 over	 the	 four	 quarters	 of	 2005,	 resulting	 in	 the	 best	 full	 year	 performance	 since	 1997.”
We	 transacted	 several	 structured	 deals	 in	 2005	 which	 combined	 sales	 of	 power	 with	 purchases	 of	 coal	 and,	 in	 some	 instances,	 carbon	 on	 a	 forward	 basis	 for	 up	 to	 two	 years.
For	 planned	 outages,	 a	 milestone	 planning	 process	 has	 	 been	 implemented	 and	 has	 already	 resulted	 in	 some	 	 performance	 improvements.
87 .2%
o	 	The	 availability	 for	 2005	 was	 87 .2%	 	 compared	 to	 81.3%	 in	 2004	  0  Drax Group plc 	 	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2005 Chief	 Executive’s	 Statement
affordability,	 and	 tackling	 climate	 change.	 We	 are	 fully	 engaged	 with	 the	 Government	 on	 the	 Review.	 We	 will	 be	 seeking	 clarity	 and	 consistency	 of	 policy	 from	 the	 Government	 to	 support	 term	 investments	 in	 the	 sector,	 the	 maintenance	 of	 an	 open	 	 and	 competitive	 market	 for	 power	 generation	 and	 equality	 for	 all	 forms	 of	 renewable	 generation.	 	 In	 particular,	 we	 will	 be	 seeking	 a	 relaxation	 of	 the	 10%	 cap	 on	 co-fired	 biomass	 ROCs	 which	 presently	 becomes	 effective	 on	 1	 April	 2006.
l ar Ge Com Bustio N p la Nt d ire Ctive On	 3	 February	 2006,	 under	 LCPD	 regulations,	 approximately	 20GW	 of	 UK	 coal	 plant	 “opted	 in”	 with	 a	 further	 13GW	 “opted	 out”.	 Those	 opted	 in	 	 will	 be	 required	 to	 comply	 with	 the	 emissions	 regulations	 set	 down	 in	 the	 LCPD.	 Those	 opted	 out	 are	 limited	 to	 20,000	 operating	 hours	 post	 2007 .	 Drax	 “opted	 in”	 under	 the	 National	 Emissions	 Reduction	 Plan	 (“NERP”),	 the	 alternative	 being	 Emission	 Limit	 Values	 (“ELV”),	 on	 the	 basis	 that	 this	 will	 serve	 to	 retain	 the	 optionality	 and	 flexibility	 of	 the	 plant	 and	 therefore	 the	 opportunity	 to	 add	 value.	 Under	 NERP ,	 coal	 generators	 are	 subject	 to	 annual	 emission	 limits	 relative	 to	 historic	 generation	 levels,	 whilst	 under	 ELV	 there	 is	 a	 48	 hour	 emission	 constraint.
eu e missio Ns t radi NG sCH eme During	 the	 course	 of	 2006,	 across	 the	 European	 Union	 each	 country’s	 National	 Allocation	 Plan	 (“NAP”)	 for	 Phase	 II	 of	 the	 Emissions	 Trading	 Scheme	 will	 be	 announced.	 Drax	 is	 active	 in	 the	 UK	 Government’s	 consultation	 process	 on	 the	 UK	 Phase	 II	 NAP .
Outlook	 The	 Refinancing	 of	 the	 Group	 together	 with	 the	 Listing	 on	 15	 December	 2005	 transformed	 the	 capital	 structure	 of	 Drax.	 The	 new	 capital	 structure	 enables	 us	 to	 align	 the	 operational,	 trading	 and	 financial	 strategies	 of	 the	 business	 to	 deliver	 greater	 shareholder	 value.	 The	 focus	 going	 forward	 is	 to	 deliver	 this	 value.	 Key	 to	 the	 success	 of	 the	 delivery	 will	 be	 the	 sustained	 performance	 of	 the	 Drax	 team	 to	 improve	 on	 the	 good	 results	 achieved	 in	 2005.	 We	 will	 continue	 to	 invest	 in	 the	 development	 of	 our	 staff	 with	 a	 keen	 focus	 on	 the	 performance	 culture	 that	 is	 now	 well	 established.	 Within	 the	 business	 work	 will	 continue	 on	 improving	 plant	 performance	 and	 seeking	 areas	 to	 enhance	 the	 business	 by	 further	 developing	 fuel	 and	 product	 optionality.	 There	 are	 a	 number	 of	 EBITDA	 enhancement	 projects	 which	 we	 identified	 in	 2005	 which	 we	 will	 aim	 to	 deliver	 in	 2006	 and	 2007 .	 In	 addition,	 the	 improvement	 in	 credit	 status	 has	 significantly	 enhanced	 our	 ability	 to	 trade	 in	 the	 power,	 coal	 and	 carbon	 markets.	 It	 has	 provided	 access	 to	 greater	 depth	 and	 tenor	 in	 all	 of	 these	 markets.	 Our	 strategy	 is	 to	 extend	 our	 forward	 contracts	 whilst	 retaining	 a	 significant	 exposure	 to	 the	 commodity	 markets	 in	 order	 to	 exploit	 the	 full	 value	 of	 the	 optionality	 of	 the	 power	 plant	 and	 the	 expertise	 of	 the	 Drax	 trading	 team.	 As	 at	 3	 March	 2006,	 Drax	 had	 contracted	 75%		 of	 expected	 2006	 output	 at	 an	 average	 price	 of	 	 £46.9/MWh,	 and	 47%	 of	 expected	 2007	 output	 	 at	 an	 average	 price	 of	 £49.2/MWh.	 Corresponding	 fixed	 price	 coal	 and	 carbon	 have	 been	 secured	 	 to	 underpin	 these	 sales.	 Overall	 our	 volume	 of	 forward	 power	 sales	 has	 grown	 by	 over	 49%	 in	 	 the	 1 1	 weeks	 from	 15	 December	 2005	 to	 3	 March	 2006	 reflecting	 both	 our	 increased	 credit	 capacity	 	 and	 counterparty	 interest.	 Given	 current	 trading	 expectations	 and	 the	 continued	 development	 of	 our	 hedge	 position	 coupled	 with	 effective	 cash	 management,	 	 we	 expect	 during	 2006	 to	 start	 to	 deliver	 on	 our	 commitment	 to	 return	 surplus	 cash	 to	 our	 shareholders.
We	 will	 remain	 active	 in	 the	 regulatory	 debate.	 	 We	 believe	 coal	 is	 critical	 to	 the	 UK	 energy	 mix	 going	 forward	 if	 the	 Government	 is	 to	 achieve	 	 its	 objectives	 of	 delivering	 security	 of	 supply,	 affordability	 and	 tackling	 climate	 change	 where	 burning	 biomass	 with	 coal	 has	 much	 to	 contribute.	 We	 will	 be	 seeking	 clarity,	 coherence	 and	 consistency	 of	 Government	 policy	 and	 an	 equal	 treatment	 of	 biomass	 co-fired	 generation	 with	 other	 renewable	 energy.
Dorothy Thompson
Chief	 Executive
7	 March	 2006
Co-firing	 renewable	 biomass	 materials	 with	 coal	 in	 our	 existing	 boilers	 is	 already	 delivering	 significant	 savings	 in	 emissions	 of	 CO
2
,	 and,	 but,	 given	 the	 right	 energy	 policy	 framework,	 it	 could	 deliver	 much	 more.
Fuel	 diversity	 projects	 include	 petroleum	 coke	 (“petcoke”)	 and	 biomass.	 Drax	 has	 invested	 in	 petcoke	 handling	 and	 blending	 facilities	 during	 the	 year	 and	 commenced	 an	 18	 month	 trial	 burn	 on	 one	 unit	 in	 June	 2005.	 Air	 quality	 monitoring,	 both	 before	 and	 during	 the	 trial,	 has	 shown	 that	 there	 has	 been	 no	 material	 increase	 in	 pollutants	 measured.	 We	 expect	 to	 apply	 for	 a	 licence	 for	 commercial	 burn	 commencing	 in	 2007 .	 Although	 the	 early	 results	 from	 the	 trials	 are	 encouraging,	 there	 can	 be	 no	 guarantee	 that	 permission	 to	 burn	 petcoke	 in	 some	 or	 all	 of	 the	 units	 will	 be	 granted.		 A	 biomass	 “direct	 injection”	 system	 was	 installed	 	 on	 one	 unit	 during	 August	 2005	 and	 has	 proved	 	 to	 be	 an	 effective	 way	 of	 delivering	 larger	 volumes	 of	 prepared	 biomass	 to	 the	 boiler	 than	 is	 possible	 through	 the	 coal	 pulverising	 mills.	 Drax	 has	 the	 potential	 to	 install,	 at	 modest	 cost,	 such	 a	 system	 	 on	 each	 unit,	 should	 the	 investment	 criteria	 be	 met.
Forced	 outage	 rate	 support	 has	 involved	 selective	 investment	 in	 boiler	 parts	 and	 tubes,	 milling	 equipment,	 flue	 gas	 desulphurisation	 plant,	 conveyors,	 common	 plant	 equipment	 and	 infrastructure	 and	 strategic	 spares,	 as	 part	 of	 the	 programme	 to	 drive	 down	 forced	 outage	 rates	 	 to	 the	 levels	 achieved	 in	 the	 early	 1990s.
Drax	 recognises	 the	 potential	 to	 improve	 operating	 and	 thermal	 efficiency	 leading	 to	 reduced	 fuel	 costs	 and	 emission	 rates.	 Examples	 of	 work	 undertaken	 in	 2005	 are	 investment	 in	 the	 flue	 gas	 desulphurisation	 facility	 to	 improve	 scrubbing	 efficiency	 and	 a	 project	 to	 improve	 boiler	 heat	 transfer	 when	 burning	 imported	 coal.	 Drax	 is	 also	 exploring	 several	 turbine	 enhancements	 and	 feed	 system	 upgrades	 with	 the	 objective	 of	 further	 improving	 efficiency	 and	 reducing	 consumption.
Regulatory Matters
eN er Gy r eview 
On	 23	 January	 2006,	 the	 UK	 Government	 launched	 its	 Energy	 Review	 (“the	 Review”).	 The	 Review	 promises	 to	 be	 broad	 in	 scope,	 considering	 both	 energy	 supply	 and	 demand	 and,	 importantly,	 within	 that,	 all	 energy	 sources	 for	 power	 generation.	 We	 welcome	 the	 Review	 as	 an	 opportunity	 to	 increase	 awareness	 of	 the	 need	 for	 coal-fired	 generation	 in	 the	 long-term	 energy	 mix	 of	 the	 country.	 Given	 the	 right	 policy	 framework,	 we	 believe	 that	 coal-fired	 generation	 can	 contribute	 to	 the	 Government’s	 key	 energy	 policy	 objectives	 of	 delivering	 security	 of	 supply	 and	   Drax Group plc 	 	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2005
