 Drax Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
02
In perspective
Back in 2012, we declared our intention 
to convert three of our six generating 
units to burn sustainable biomass 
in place of coal by the end of 2016. 
The transformation work is now well 
advanced with two units converted and 
the third scheduled to be converted in 
the time frame indicated above. 
Our transformation extends beyond the 
conversion works at Drax Power Station, 
both upstream and downstream. 
The benefit of a presence in the 
upstream supply market is significant, 
in the southern US our two wood pellet 
plants are in commissioning and our port 
facility is “pellet -ready” . 
Downstream the continued attraction of 
renewable power amongst businesses 
keen to meet their own sustainability 
commitments has seen our retail sales 
increase. Our commitment to becoming 
a leading provider of sustainable power is 
as strong as it has always been.
We offer a source of power which is 
sustainable, secure and reliable, cost -
effective and low carbon. We continue 
to see future value for our business and 
our shareholders in our biomass strategy , 
and we are on track to deliver that.
We also take very seriously our 
responsibility to the communities where 
our operations are based. This is well 
illustrated by our visitor programme at 
Drax Power Station where we hosted 
more than 12,500 visitors in 2014.
Earnings and dividend
Our earnings (EBITDA
(1)
) for 2014 
at £229 million were broadly level 
with those in 2013 (£230 million). 
In accordance with our dividend policy , 
the Board proposes a final dividend in 
respect of 2014 of 7 .2 pence per share, 
equivalent to £29 million. This would give 
total dividends for the year of £ 48 million 
(2013: £71 million).
Board changes
As announced in September 2014, 
I shall be retiring from the Board at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting 
this coming April. I have served on the 
Board for some nine years and I have 
been privileged to be its Chairman 
for the last seven. During that time 
Drax has seen tremendous change, 
from a business with purely electricity 
generation interests to a growing Group 
with interests along the electricity and 
biomass supply chain.
It has been an exciting journey for 
everyone involved and I have every 
confidence that the Group has a 
successful future ahead of it. I am 
delighted in the choice of my successor , 
Phil Cox CBE. Phil has significant 
experience of the power sector and 
is no stranger to the boardroom. 
We have an effective Board with good 
and complementary skills, knowledge 
and experience across all directors, both 
executive and non-executive, and Phil is 
well placed to lead them. I wish him and 
the Group every success. 
Our people
As always my final say is about the 
people at Drax. I have enjoyed getting 
to know many during the last nine years 
and I have valued the time I have spent 
with them. What is common throughout 
the Group is the unfaltering support and 
commitment of everyone. My sincere 
thanks and very best wishes go to all 
staff across the Group.
Charles Berry 
Chairman
23 February 2015
(1)  EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts and 
the one-off settlement of CESP in 2014.
Chairman’s introduction
The last year serves as a stark reminder of factors 
in the external environment which cause uncertainty 
for our business. During the year , regulatory uncertainty 
and much weaker commodity markets have proved 
challenging. It is, however , our job to navigate through 
such uncertainties and to that end I am able to report 
good operational performance and solid progress with 
our biomass transformation during 201 4. Drax Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
03
Marketplace, performance and risk Sustainable business review Governance Financials Overview
“ F aced with challenges in the 
external environment, it is our job 
to navigate through uncertainties 
and control the controllable. ”
Charles Berry 
Chairman
Explore more detail elsewhere in this report…
Read more: Operational and financial performance  
26–45
Read more: Governance  
58–96
