 Drax Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
16
A challenging year , 
but good progress 
made on our biomass 
transformation
Chief Executive’s statement
Dorothy Thompson CBE 
Chief Executive
“ Our main priority in 201 4 
was the delivery of our biomass 
transformation project. ”  Drax Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
17
Marketplace, performance and risk Sustainable business review Governance Financials Overview
Review of the year
Our main priority in 2014 was the delivery 
of our biomass transformation project. 
For the business and our shareholders, 
2014 proved to be a very difficult year 
as various regulatory risks materialised 
and we faced a major deterioration 
in commodity market conditions. 
Despite these challenges I am able 
to report very good progress in our 
transformation into a predominantly 
renewable electricity provider . We are on 
track to deliver according to the plan we 
initially laid out in 2012.
Our vision for Drax is to be a bold, 
customer oriented power generation 
and retail business, driven by biomass 
innovation. In moving towards achieving 
our vision, we made good progress 
during 2014 on our biomass supply 
chain construction projects in the 
US, our biomass conversion project at 
Drax Power Station, and our growth in 
electricity sales to businesses. 
Earnings
Our earnings for 2014 reflect our 
progress in delivering reliable biomass-
fired generation as the earning potential 
of our coal-fired generation fell following 
the near doubling of the UK carbon tax. 
At £229 million, EBITDA is roughly level 
with last year (2013: £230 million). 
Securing sustainable 
biomass supplies
Sustainability is critical to our biomass 
strategy . All our biomass, whether in 
raw fibre or pellet form, is procured 
against our own robust sustainability 
criteria. These include requirements 
for high greenhouse gas emission 
reduction, habitats and biodiversity 
protection, as well as due consideration 
to the important socio-economic factors 
in the source areas. A programme 
of independent audits verifies that 
all our suppliers comply with our 
sustainability criteria. 
The dynamics of the forest industry 
are sometimes misunderstood. 
Demand for wood helps keep land in 
forest and incentivises investments 
in new and more productive forests, 
all of which have significant carbon 
benefits. Our calculations show that 
the range of sustainable biomass 
materials we have burnt over the 
last few years has a low carbon 
footprint. In 2014, the average 
greenhouse gas emissions from 
burning biomass were 34gCO
2 /MJ; 
significantly below 79gCO 2 /MJ which 
is the maximum to be permitted under 
the UK government’s framework for 
sustainability requirements for biomass 
that are expected to become mandatory 
later this year .
Our developments in the US are 
an important part of our biomass 
sourcing strategy . They help us to 
optimise the biomass supply chain 
which is still in its infancy , particularly 
in the southeast US which is the main 
source of our biomass. The main drivers 
for our upstream investments are 
twofold: securing the timely delivery 
of reliable wood pellet supplies to Drax 
Power Station and consolidating third 
party and own supplies to secure 
more efficient and cost -effective 
delivery logistics.
Our two, 4 50 thousand tonnes per 
annum wood pellet plants – Amite 
(Mississippi) and Morehouse (Louisiana ) 
– have now entered into commissioning. 
Our port facility at Baton Rouge 
(Louisiana ) is now ready to receive 
and despatch wood pellets to the 
UK. We continue to evaluate further 
upstream development opportunities 
in the US.
Aside from our investments to 
secure a self -supply of sustainable 
biomass, we have made good progress 
towards securing near -term volumes 
of wood pellets from suppliers in 
the market with more than six million 
tonnes contracted for April 2015 
to March 2016. We continue our 
negotiations for additional longer 
term volumes to support our third 
unit conversion. Drax Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
18
Biomass conversion
In 2012, we embarked on our plan to 
convert three of our six generating units 
to burn sustainable biomass in place 
of coal, with a target to secure fuel for 
all three converted units by the end of 
2016. We are on schedule to meet that 
target. Our second generating unit was 
converted to burn biomass in October 
2014, after running as an enhanced 
co-firing unit, that is, burning at least 
85% biomass, for five months. We plan 
to convert a third unit to biomass in the 
12-month window from 1 July 2015.
Coal-fired generation 
performance 
As in previous years, we delivered strong 
generation output from our coal-fired 
units. We were able to continue to deliver 
additional value to the business through 
providing flexible generation output 
and balancing services to the System 
Operator , National Grid, in support of 
system stability and security .
Health and safety
In the UK, our safety performance 
remains industry-leading. During 2014, 
we undertook a significant amount 
of project work and a single planned 
outage on one of our generating units. 
All work was completed without a worse 
than first aid injury .
In 2013, the safety performance in the 
US at our construction sites was weaker 
than safety performance of our UK 
operations. During last year we worked 
hard to drive improvements at these 
US sites to meet our UK standards. 
T ogether with our contractors we made 
good progress during the year . However , 
our achievements were marred by the 
tragic death of a sub-contractor towards 
the end of the year . Excellent safety 
management has always been at the 
centre of our management ethos. 
The incident serves as a poignant 
reminder of the importance of 
strong safety systems and controls 
in the construction and operation of 
large plant.
Retail performance
Selling our output through our retail 
business, Haven Power Limited (“Haven 
Power”) continues to provide us with a 
credit -efficient route to market for our 
power sales compared to the wholesale 
electricity market. It also provides a good 
route to market for the Renewables 
Obligation Certificates and Levy 
Exemption Certificates earned when we 
generate renewable power . 
During 2014, Haven Power delivered 
another year of substantial growth in 
a highly competitive market with retail 
sales 46% higher , in volume, than in 2013.
An excellent standard of customer 
service is central to our proposition for 
our retail operations. We are a consistent 
high performer in the Datamonitor 
Energy Buyers Survey and have a good 
renewals record.
We have been working to minimise 
the risk that we face from the 
implementation of a price freeze, as 
announced by the Labour Party at its 
2013 Party conference, should the Party 
come to power following May’s General 
Election. Apart from a small number of 
customers that take supply on default 
terms, all of Haven’s customers are 
supplied under fixed term contracts. 
We do not believe that this form of 
contract is the primary target of the 
proposed freeze.
Regulatory framework 
The regulatory framework is a key 
influencing factor on our business. 
At the start of 2014 we had expected 
to be awarded two early contracts for 
difference or investment contracts 
(in line with the new, forthcoming 
contracts for difference regime ) 
to support our second and third 
unit conversions. 
In April, the government concluded that 
the second unit was no longer eligible 
for such a contract. We mounted a 
legal challenge and the High Court 
found in our favour . However , the 
government appealed that judgment 
and won. We subsequently converted 
our second unit under the Renewables 
Obligation (“RO”).
The investment contract for our third 
unit conversion has been executed, 
but is subject to EU State Aid clearance 
which is still under review.
In June, Ofgem referred the electricity 
wholesale and retail markets to the 
Competition and Markets Authority 
(“CMA ”) ; the main focus being on 
supply competition in the residential 
market. The CMA initiated a market 
investigation to determine whether 
any feature, or combination of features, 
of these markets prevents, restricts or 
distorts competition in the sector . If it 
concludes that there are issues that 
need addressing, it has wide ranging 
powers to impose remedies. The CMA ’s 
updated issues statement, published 
in February 2015, reported no finding 
of major competition concerns in the 
generation sector . We expect the CMA 
to conclude its inquiry during 2015. 
We are co-operating fully with the 
CMA ’s investigation. 
In November , we reached a settlement 
agreement with Ofgem regarding 
non-compliance with our obligation 
under the Community Energy Saving 
Programme. The settlement, worth 
£28 million, will see up to £20 million 
benefit vulnerable energy consumers 
through a programme of work to be 
developed by the charity , National 
Energy Action.
In December , the Government published 
a consultation on changes to the 
grandfathering policy for future biomass 
and co-firing conversion projects under 
the RO. The changes proposed would 
apply to all such projects except those 
already awarded with an investment 
contract, for example, our third unit 
conversion as mentioned above. 
The outcome of that consultation will 
have no impact on Drax’s base strategy 
of converting three generating units to 
burn sustainable biomass in place of coal 
and becoming a predominantly biomass-
fuelled power generator . However , if the 
consultation proposals are upheld, it will 
reduce our options for the conversion of 
a fourth unit.
Also in December , the first capacity 
market auction was held. The market is 
designed to ensure security of electricity 
supply by providing a payment for 
reliable sources of capacity . T wo of 
Drax Power Station’s coal units were 
successful in the auction, with the 
capacity required for delivery in 2018/19. 
Chief Executive’s statement ( continued) Drax Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2014
19
Marketplace, performance and risk Sustainable business review Governance Financials Overview
Looking ahead
We are on track to complete our 
transformation into a predominantly 
biomass-fuelled power provider in 2016. 
The case for a three unit conversion 
is robust and we are committed to full 
execution of this project.
We remain convinced that sustainable 
biomass has an important and strategic 
role to play in the future energy mix of 
the UK. Not only does biomass bring the 
benefit of significant carbon savings 
over fossil fuels, but it does so without 
jeopardising the security of supply 
characteristics traditionally associated 
with fossil fuel technology . 
The financial benefit of biomass 
generation from converted coal units is 
very significant. Independent economic 
analysis by Frontier Economics 
estimates that, if our biomass 
transformation project converting 
three of the six generating units at Drax 
Power Station to burn biomass in place 
of coal was replaced by offshore wind in 
2020, the cost to the economy would be 
£3. 4 billion more. 
We trust that, over time, the significant 
benefits of biomass conversion as an 
attractive renewable will underpin 
support for further generating unit 
conversions at Drax.
We remain alert to future strategic 
opportunities and will continue to review 
options that build on the wider strengths 
and competences of the Group with 
the potential to generate value for 
our shareholders.
As ever , it is a complex picture for our 
stakeholders to evaluate, but I am 
confident that our transformation 
will deliver an attractive future for the 
business and our shareholders, whilst 
delivering a significant amount of 
cost -effective renewable power to UK 
consumers and making a meaningful 
contribution to the UK’s 2020 climate 
change targets.
Dorothy Thompson CBE 
Chief Executive
23 February 2015
2020
Making a meaningful contribution to  
the UK’s 2020 climate change targets.
