 Chairman’s Statement INTRODUCTION
This is our second year as an AIM 
quoted company and I am delighted to
announce that the business continues 
to make very good progress. Results for
the year to 30 September 2007 show
record levels of turnover and profits. 
Key to the ongoing development of the
business is the necessity to ensure that
we attract and retain high calibre staff 
at all levels, and a major focus over the 
year has been to increase the number 
of our fee-earning consultants. The
recruitment programme has gone well
and at the financial year end, the
number of fee earners within the
Company had risen by 35% to 96 from 
71 at the same time last year . 
As the substantial growth in Driver’s
turnover shows, we are now seeing the
benefits of this increase in resource
coming through, in the performance 
of both our UK and international
businesses. I am pleased to report too
that our newer areas of operations in
London, Bristol and Edinburgh all
showed good growth, and revenues from
the United Arab Emirates almost
doubled over the year to £1.45m.  
Our relationships within the industry,
both with existing and potential clients,
are vital for future growth and I am
pleased to report that we have
successfully negotiated four new
framework agreements with clients.
These further strengthen our
relationship with these customers and
reflect Driver’s increasing reputation
and profile in the market.
Over the last fifteen months or so, the
business has undergone a significant
transformation. We have opened and
integrated new offices in the UK, which
have expanded our presence regionally
and established Driver in the Middle
East where the construction sector is
expanding rapidly. Following our
recruitment initiative, the business is
now substantially stronger and our
increased consulting resource puts 
the Group in a better position to
capitalise on the good growth
opportunities in the UK and
internationally. We therefore view
prospects for the business positively. 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Turnover rose by 39% to £12.68m from
£9.12m last year and underlying
operating profits rose by 14% to £1.68m
from £1.47m last year . This is before the
charge of £485,000 for settling the
pension liability, which is treated as
exceptional and the FRS20 charge for
share options, which totalled £73,000
(2006: £11,000). After deducting the
exceptional charge and FRS20 charge
for share options, reported profit before
tax was £1.11m (2006: £1.49m)
Earnings per share before exceptional
items and share option charges was 4.9p
(2006: 4.6p). After deducting the share
option charge and exceptional item,
earnings per share was 3.2p (2006: 4.6p).
At the year end, the Group’s net cash
stood at £0.23m (30 September 2006:
£0.69m) and net assets, after deducting
the employee benefit trust shares in 
the Group (which had a book value of
£1.24m at 30 September 2007) from
shareholders’ equity stood at £5.42m 
(30 September 2006: £4.64m). 
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to recommend the
payment of a final dividend for the year
ended 30 September 2007 of 1.90 pence
per share (2006: 1.90 pence). This
makes a total dividend for the year of
2.85 pence (2006: 2.85 pence) per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 
19 March 2008 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 
22 February 2008.
DRIVER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 05
“The business is now substantially stronger and in 
a better position to capitalise on the good growth
opportunities in the UK and internationally. We
therefore view prospects for the business positively.”
Michael Davis Chairman TRADING OVERVIEW
Market conditions in both the UK and
internationally remained very healthy
over the year and looking forward, we
continue to see excellent growth
opportunities. A major objective during
the period was to scale the business for
growth by attracting new fee earners
and consultants and we invested heavily
in this. Total staff numbers (including
sub-contract staff) increased by 30% to
120 at 30 September 2007 compared to
92 staff at 30 September 2006. 
In my interim statement, I noted the
growth in business at our new Bristol
and Edinburgh locations as well as at
our more established UK offices but also
reported that the profitability at the
London office has been disappointing.
Some six months on, I am pleased to
report that we are continuing to make
very good progress in developing our
presence in Bristol and Edinburgh and
that we have recorded a significant
improvement in the performance of our
London office. Over the second half, our
London team secured several new
clients, improved charge-out rates and
enhanced staff utilisation rates, as well
as adding new fee-earning consultants.
As a result, in the last month of the
financial year, the London office became
our most profitable centre in the UK.  
Internationally, we continue to make
significant progress. In particular, our
business in the United Arab Emirates
(“UAE”) has seen extremely strong
growth, with sales increasing by 91% to
£1.45m from £0.76m last year . We are
continuing to secure new appointments
in this region, where the construction
sector continues to expand strongly. We
are building on this success by setting
up new operating entities for both our
dispute resolution and project services
businesses in this region.
BOARD CHANGES
On 1 October 2007, we were pleased to
welcome Colin White to the Board as
Group Finance Director . He took over 
the position from Peter Cove, who
stepped down from the Board on 
30 September . Colin is a chartered
accountant with over 20 years’
experience in financial roles. He was
previously Group Finance Director of
Scapa Group plc, the AIM quoted global
supplier of technical tapes and cable
compounds, where he jointly developed
and implemented a new strategy and
business model which underpinned the
turnaround of the business.
I would like to thank Peter for his
significant contribution to the business,
particularly during the time of the
flotation, and I am pleased that he
remains with the Group as Finance
Director of the Group’s principal trading
subsidiary, Driver Consult Ltd. 
On 1 October 2006, Keith Kirkwood joined
the Board as a Non-Executive Director .
Keith is a chartered quantity surveyor
with over 30 years' experience in both the
general construction industry and in the
specialist area of dispute resolution. Until
recently he was Group Chief Executive of 
Schofield Lothian Group, the construction,
engineering and infrastructure
management consultancy which he
founded in 1986. Under his leadership, 
the business was successfully developed
into an international operation. 
STAFF
On behalf of the Board, I would like to
thank all of our staff for their commitment
and hard work over the last twelve 
months. This year’s results reflect their
skill and efforts.
OUTLOOK
It has been a year of investment for 
the Group as we focused on scaling the
business for growth. We are now seeing
the benefits of our recruitment drive to
increase our fee-earning capability coming
through in our top-line growth and saw
record sales in the final quarter of 2006/07. 
We have clear growth objectives for the
current financial year and as well as
developing the Group organically, we are
actively considering acquisitions which
complement our existing business. 
With construction activity in our key
domestic and overseas markets remaining
very strong, we continue to regard
prospects for the Group very positively.
DRIVER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 06
Customer quote
“Your thorough preparation
was a major factor in effecting  
an outstanding settlement”
