 Once again, I am delighted to deliver my
report on a successful financial year .
During the year, the Group has continued
to invest heavily in the recruitment of
fee-earning personnel. This took our
staff count (including sub-contract staff)
to 120 at 30 September 2007 from 92 at
the end of the last financial year . By the
end of the financial year, all staff were
fully integrated and delivering high
levels of utilisation.
The Group’s principal trading company,
Driver Consult Ltd, comprises three
business streams and my review of the
Group’s performance has therefore been
set out on that basis. 
UK CONSULTANCY SERVICES
Our UK Consultancy Services, based
predominantly around the provision
of dispute avoidance and resolution
services, are provided through our
network of seven regional offices 
located in Northern and Southern
England and in Scotland.
Chief Executive’s Report
Relationships with key clients have
strengthened during the year, reflected
in the negotiation of four framework 
agreements and I am pleased to report
that others are under negotiation.
All seven offices operated profitably in
the year with significant improvements
in turnover and profit over the final
quarter . Over the year as a whole,
turnover increased to £9.33m from
£7.15m, an increase of 30%.
The measures taken at the end of the
first half to improve the productivity 
of our London office have been very
successful and resulted in a significant
rise in the office’s contribution to the
business in the final quarter . During 
the year, we also relocated our 
London office to larger premises 
which provide us with ample scope 
for future expansion. We expect the
major construction projects planned 
in the South of England for the next 
five years to offer us excellent 
growth opportunities.   
DRIVER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 07
“We have strengthened the management team,
opened new offices and aggressively increased the
number of fee earners within the Group.”
Stephen Driver Chief Executive Officer INTERNATIONAL 
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
International Consultancy Services
provides services to construction clients
throughout Europe, Eastern Europe, the
Americas and the Middle East. The
services provided are substantially the
same as those we provide in the UK with
concentration on high profile expert
witness and arbitrator appointments.
Turnover in the year increased to
£1.60m from £1.21m, an increase of
more than 32%. The division has
operated very profitably in the year
concentrating on quantum and planning
expert assignments.
We are currently in the process of
opening an office in Oman which is
intended to capitalise on our existing
relationships in the region and
opportunities arising from the country’s
extensive construction programme.
INTERNATIONAL PROJECT SERVICES
Our International Project Services
business is based in the UAE and there
are potential opportunities to develop
elsewhere in the world. The services
provided by our International Project
Services unit complement our other
business areas in that it provides
commercial, planning and project
controls services to property
development companies involved in the
construction of multi-million dollar and
sometimes multi-billion dollar, mixed-
use developments incorporating houses,
apartments, offices, schools, hospitals
and roads. Our role often begins with 
the inception of a property development
and lasts until its completion as we
monitor budget, cost and timetables in
all phases of development.
Our operations in the UAE have continued
to expand during the financial year with
an increase in turnover to £1.45m in
2007 from £0.76m in 2006. Staff numbers
in the region increased from 10 to 18.  
Most pleasing of all, we start the new
financial year with eleven projects
compared with three projects in the
previous year and we are also pursuing
several additional opportunities.
OUTLOOK
The Group has been considerably
enlarged since we joined AIM. We have
strengthened the management team,
opened new offices and aggressively
increased the number of fee earners
within the Group. 
Looking forward, Driver is now well
positioned to capitalise on growth
opportunities both in the UK and in the
Middle East and we intend to continue 
to invest in developing the business,
particularly in the Middle East, 
where the construction market is
extremely strong. We are also actively
engaged in seeking acquisitions, which
fit our criteria.  
With all our markets remaining 
buoyant, we expect to deliver a stronger
performance in the coming year and
remain confident about future prospects.   
DRIVER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 08
Customer quote
“
I am sure that the professional 
way in which the claim was
presented and forcefully and 
logically argued enabled us to
fully maximize the claim
”
