 continuing growth in the region remain very
good. Government spend on infrastructure
projects and public works remains at very 
high levels.
Commercial Management Consultants (“CMC”),
which we acquired in February 2008, performed
well, helped by its focus on providing project
services to substantial infrastructure projects 
in the South of England.
BOARD AND OPERATIONAL CHANGES
A number of changes to the structure of both
the Group and the Board took effect on 
1 October 2009. At Board level, Mike Davis
retired as Chairman while continuing as a 
Non-Executive Director and retaining
responsibility as Chairman of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. Mike had been
Chairman since he joined the Board in October
2005 and helped to steer the business through
its AIM flotation. I would like to thank Mike
personally for his leadership of the Board over
these four years. In taking up the position of
Executive Chairman, I was delighted to hand
over the position of Chief Executive Officer to
Dave Webster, previously Chief Operating
Officer . Dave has been instrumental in the
Group’s successful development to date, having
joined the business in 2000. 
We also made important changes to the Group’s
operational structure and reporting lines,
creating five new business units. These new
business units comprise Middle East,
International, Expert Services, Consultancy
Services (UK) and Project Services. Each unit is
led by a highly experienced managing director
and all have been involved with the
development of Driver over a number of years.
This restructuring is part of our plan to position
the Group for growth over the next three years.
We will be making further investment in the
senior management team over the coming year
in order to support the development of our
international operations. 
OUTLOOK
While conditions are tougher, we believe that
there are interesting growth opportunities
available to us over the next three years. The
organisational restructuring which we have put
in place is the first step in developing these
opportunities. Building on our growing presence
in the Middle East, we see scope to deliver 
our expert services, consultancy and project
services offering in new territories in the 
Middle East as well as in other geographic
markets, including Africa, the Far East and 
Asia. The client relationships we have with
international contracting and engineering
companies will assist this process. Over the
course of the current financial year, we expect
to invest c£1m in our expansion strategy,
including the recruitment of key personnel for
new market sectors. The Board therefore views
the current financial year as a year of strategic
investment, with the attendant beneficial effect
on revenues and profitability coming through in
the next financial year and beyond. With these
strategic initiatives in place we believe that the
Group is positioned to deliver a strong
performance in the coming years.
DRIVER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009
06
59930_DRIVER_REPORT 1-60_mk2.pdf   5 59930_DRIVER_REPORT 1-60_mk2.pdf   5 28/01/2010   11:06 28/01/2010   11:06 INTRODUCTION
The year has proven to be a testing period as
the impact of the global economic downturn
was felt across the construction and engineering
industries. The impact for us was most evident
in the UK and Dubai, where live construction
and engineering projects declined significantly.
Against that, we continued to experience strong
growth in the Middle East overall, especially in
Oman. Revenues from the Middle East
increased by 85% year on year and the growth
in our overseas business over the last two years
now means that our foreign earnings contribute
a significant proportion of the Group’s overall
profits. Our focus on developing our expert
witness and litigation support services across
all our geographic operations has been
successful and we expect this work to continue
to increase over the coming year . 
DRIVER CONSULT
Driver Consult is the principle trading
subsidiary of the Group and provides dispute
resolution and commercial management
services to the construction and engineering
industry in the UK, Middle East and
Internationally. The results for the subsidiary
are reported in two segments: Driver Consult
UK, which includes domestic and international
operations which are serviced from the UK, 
and Driver Consult Middle East. 
During the year, there was a significant decline
in the UK and Dubai commercial building
sectors and our services to live projects in these 
sectors reduced accordingly. In reacting to
changing market conditions, a major aim has
been to refocus our capability and resources on
the wider international market and to expand
our expert services offering. We have started to
see the benefits of this refocusing, which has
helped to offset the decline in the broader UK
market. Our operations in the Middle East,
excluding Dubai, grew strongly over the year,
particularly in Oman where we also started to
widen our service offering.
UK
Our UK offices are grouped into the three
regions, Northern, Midlands & South-West, 
and London & South-East. 
Revenue in the London & South-East region
increased by 6% in the year . This region is the
primary home of our expert witness services
and our revenue growth reflected our efforts 
to increase our share of the expert witness
marketplace. We continue to project growth in
London and, in order to accommodate this, moved
our London operations into larger premises.
The Northern and Midlands & South-West
regions experienced a 22% decline in revenue
following the downturn of work in the
construction and engineering industries during
the year . We have positioned our operations in
these regions to focus on the power, energy and
utility sectors but are currently not projecting
significant recovery during the course of the
current financial year to 30 September 2010.  
Our Corporate Services business is accounted
for within the Northern region. This division
provides services to the banking, accountancy
and insolvency sectors and, as would be
expected in the current environment, revenues
from Corporate Services increased over 
the year . The major part of our work was
undertaken for Administrators managing the
administration of construction companies. 
We anticipate continuing growth from Corporate
Services during the coming year and expect to
add fee-earning resource to support this. 
The business is also well positioned for due
diligence and project monitoring work for 
banks and other lenders when the construction
market recovers.
International (reported within the UK segment)
During the year, this business area generated
revenue of £1.8m at a 21% margin. We view the
wider international arena, outside our existing
operations in the Middle East, as offering
excellent potential for expansion and have
started to position Driver Consult accordingly,
leveraging our existing client relationships. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
DRIVER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009
07
The year has proven to be a testing period 
as the impact of the global economic 
downturn was felt across the construction 
and engineering industries
Dave Webster Chief Executive Officer
“
”
59930_DRIVER_REPORT 1-60_mk2.pdf   6 59930_DRIVER_REPORT 1-60_mk2.pdf   6 28/01/2010   11:06 28/01/2010   11:06
