 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
MARKETS
DRS operates in over 50 countries across three 
market sectors: Education, Elections and Census. 
Our core business is 
delivering time-critical, 
large-scale, logistically 
challenging solutions for 
examination processing, 
elections and population 
censuses. 
We implement complete solutions using our extensive 
expertise in document design, printing, scanning of forms, 
software development, logistics, project management and 
consultancy. 
The unique combination of domain expertise, application 
software, scanner technology and specialised printing and 
scanning services provides clients with robust end-to-end 
solutions for major data capture and processing projects.
                Education
Our education business is focused on providing awarding and 
assessment bodies, schools, colleges and universities in the 
UK and overseas with secure data capture and examination 
processing products and specialist services.
These products and services fall into two main categories:
1. DRS Marking and Examination software and   
 services including:
•	 e-Marker® software and services for on-line electronic 
examination marking;
•	 specialised Multiple Choice Questionnaire (MCQ)   
marking software;
•	 on-site professional services for in-house operations; and
•	 full service bureau operations, providing secure receipt and 
storage of scripts, scanning and imaging of  
completed exam answer booklets and electronic delivery 
of on-line marking.
2. Scanning equipment and forms production including: 
•	 DRS award winning PhotoScribe® PS900 Series imaging 
mark readers: robust, high speed, network-ready form 
scanners able to capture complex data in real time at 
speeds of up to 10,500 forms per hour;
•	 exam entry and registration forms production including 
photo capture;
•	 bespoke examination scripts production including fully 
optimised examiner answer and mark sheets for electronic 
capture; and
•	 MCQ answer forms and exam marking forms production 
and processing.
Steve Gowers 
CEO
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
8
 STRATEGIC REPORT DRS is a long-standing provider of online examination 
marking services in the UK. Awarding bodies and professional 
bodies have been using electronic marking to mark
high-stakes, high-volume, general qualifications such as 
GCSE and GCE ALevel examinations since 2002. AQA 
Education, a leading UK provider of academic qualifications, 
remains the Group’s largest customer overall, amongst a 
wide range of awarding bodies and other examining entities 
in the UK and overseas.
             Elections
DRS offers an end-to-end solution for electronically counted 
elections worldwide including form design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and training. We cover 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative and local council 
elections as well as employee and trade union ballots.
DRS Election software, scanning equipment and services 
include the following:
•	 electronic Counting (e-Counting) solutions for statutory 
and non-statutory elections including national elections, 
local and regional council elections and by-elections; 
postal ballot options plus, with partners, internet and 
telephone ballots;
•	 ballot paper design and forms production; and
•	 scanning and data capture of time-critical data using our 
PhotoScribe® technology for ballot scanning as well as 
voter registration projects.
             Census
DRS Census services provide data capture solutions for 
large-scale censuses including paper-based national or 
regional population censuses and specialised industrial, 
commercial and agricultural censuses. Any census is a 
complex undertaking presenting many challenges, especially 
concerning the collection and dissemination of the data.
It is also recognised that every census project is unique and 
that market requirements are constantly changing. DRS has 
therefore developed a flexible, adaptable solution combined 
with proven and innovative data capture methods and 
technology.
DRS is able to provide complete bespoke solutions 
including:
•	 customised software (OMR, ICR, Barcode and Image);
•	 forms design and printing;
•	 DRS PhotoScribe® scanners;
•	 PC/Server hardware;
•	 support services;
•	 consultancy; and
•	 project management.
The services cover all stages from planning through 
to project implementation, document scanning 
of enumeration/census forms using our scanners,                    
data processing and export of the data to the chosen 
analysis package.
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The education market 
is a particular focus 
because it offers 
regular and recurring 
business opportunities 
arising from the annual 
cycle of examinations.
“
“ CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL
Education
Our core education business focuses on the delivery 
of solutions for student registration and examination 
processing and the electronic marking of high-stakes,     
high-volume examinations. 
The business strategy is focused on carefully selected 
geographies that the Board feels represent the best 
opportunities for sustainable and recurring growth for the 
DRS’ education products and services, with a particular focus 
on Africa and India, including both secondary and further 
education examination processing. The education market 
is a particular focus because it offers regular and recurring 
business opportunities arising from the annual cycle of 
examinations. Key drivers include the size and growth of the 
student populations in these markets, the investment being 
made in education by governments and individuals and the 
potential benefits that electronic marking offers in terms 
of increased efficiency, data collection and the reduction of 
error, fraud and bias.
In the UK the Education market is mature and the changes 
that are occurring in secondary education qualifications are 
causing a reduction in the number of examinations taken.  
We continue to work with a number of UK awarding bodies 
to develop products and services that provide improvements 
in marking quality and capability.
The main opportunities for growth are to build on our 
existing education business in Africa, where the business has 
a long established presence and to use the knowledge gained 
in this market to develop opportunities in India, which has 
suitable student numbers and a similar education structure 
to the UK. The Board’s view is that these markets offer the 
necessary scale of opportunity, in terms of current numbers 
of students, student volume growth and examination 
volumes to meet growth aspirations. 
Over the years we have built up a deep knowledge of the 
data capture and processing requirements in this area and 
we are able to work with our partners and customers to 
deliver the software and hardware solutions to meet local 
requirements. DRS has built strong relationships with 
international agencies, national governments and public and 
private sector specialist organisations, including national 
and regional awarding, assessment and educational bodies 
across the globe. Our professional services organisation 
is also equipped to deliver best practice techniques and 
methodologies to these organisations to enable them to 
achieve the required results.
Electronic marking is now starting to gain acceptance in 
many regions of the world due to its proven benefits in 
marking quality, security, the removal of bias, improved 
administration and reporting of the marking process and 
better use of markers, both in standardisation and cost-
effectiveness.
It is our intention to offer these services and solutions, 
including the e-Marker® electronic marking solution, either 
directly or in conjunction with carefully selected strategic 
partners in each market. We are currently working with a 
number of partners in Africa and India to further develop 
these services. 
The business model in the UK is direct sales operated by DRS 
staff offering a full bureau service including scanning, and 
the e-Marker® software offered as a service.
In the overseas markets, professional services to support 
the use of e-Marker® may be offered directly or delivered 
through carefully selected service provider partners. In 
either case the preferred revenue model for e-Marker® is a 
recurring model, with a per-transaction (per examination 
script) fee being charged for use of the licence. Other 
software solutions, such as MCQ may be licensed directly to 
clients for an up-front initial licence fee.
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL 
Elections and Census
The Group will continue to pursue large-scale, one-off 
opportunities in the elections and census markets, based 
on dedicated DRS software applications and the Company’s 
PhotoScribe® scanners. The focus is on national population 
censuses, voter registration and ballot counting for large 
statutory and non-statutory elections.
Our customers require a combination of data capture, 
processing and reporting solutions as well as the delivery 
of related services which include operational training, 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
10
 STRATEGIC REPORT document printing, scanning and data handling. These 
solutions and services in combination result in the provision 
of a full end-to-end service. 
A key driver for the Census market is the practice of holding 
them on a decennial cycle, with the majority of censuses 
being clustered on or around the decade end. Outside of 
those peaks there are fewer projects, primarily in those 
countries which have not held a census for some time or 
decide to carry out an intercensal population survey. 
OBJECTIVES
As a business we continue to focus on the three market 
sectors of Education, Elections and Census that we believe 
have a common and complementary need for solutions 
which provide for large-scale secure capture and processing 
of high-stakes data, primarily from manually completed, 
paper-based forms and the output of the results to a fixed 
schedule. These results might be election counts, census 
results or examination marks.
Two of the markets, Census and Elections, offer 
opportunities that while they are high value are, by their 
nature, non-recurring and tend to be project-based requiring 
specific customisation. By contrast, events in the Education 
market, in particular exam series, are more regular and 
repeatable and offer the opportunity for recurring revenue 
streams. Because of this we have a particular objective to 
derive a greater proportion of revenue from the Education 
market through electronic marking of examinations. 
Education accounts for 85% of turnover and is believed to 
provide the best growth opportunities.
DRS has been investing in new products to support the 
growth of this business, including e-Marker® and MCQ. 
A key objective for the business is the delivery of new 
products, features and related professional services to 
provide a broader range of electronic marking capabilities 
to meet the needs of our UK and International customers. 
The business is investing in research and development with a 
view to launching an enhanced electronic marking platform 
in the coming year that will form the basis of new pilot 
projects in selected locations.
Our products and services may be sold directly or through 
a certified network of strategic partners. Future growth 
opportunities will arise from the development of these 
channels, allowing us to open up new territories.  We have a 
particular focus on identifying and signing up new partners 
to support this expansion.
OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
2013 saw the business continue to deliver on the strategy 
to increase revenue from Education, with an overall growth 
in Education revenues of 6.80% to £15,450,000 (2012: 
£14,466,000). Sustained demand in our core UK Education 
market delivered a small increase in revenue of 1.37% to 
£10,570,000 (2012: £10,427,000).
Initial projects for the delivery of DRS e-Marker® and MCQ 
solutions and related services in India and Africa were 
completed and the Company’s performance in these markets 
continues to develop. During the year this led to an increase 
of 20.82% in international education revenue to £4,880,000 
(2012: £4,039,000).
An expected reduction in non-Education revenue to 
£2,645,000 (2012: £5,605,000), which was as a result of 
fewer large-scale census and elections projects, meant 
that the Group achieved an overall revenue for the year of 
£18,095,000 (2012: £20,071,000) and profit before tax of 
£1,269,000 (2012: £1,302,000), a performance that was 
broadly in line with expectations.
Administrative expenses have increased by more than 
inflation between 2012 and 2013 owing to the appointment 
of key people to strengthen the management team. 
However, overall total costs in the business have reduced by 
0.5% of revenue.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
EDUCATION COMMERCIAL ELECTIONS AND 
CENSUS
TOTAL
£000’s 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
UK	 Sales	 10,570 10,427 39 26 11 2,485 10,620 12,938
International Sales 4,880 4,039 563 300 2,032 2,794 7,475 7,133
Total 15,450 14,466 602 326 2,043 5,279 18,095 20,071
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
UK	 SALES
UK overall sales in 2013 were £10,620,000, below 2012 
performance at £12,938,000 as a result of an expected 
decrease in non-Education revenue. This decrease was 
primarily because 2012 included revenue of £2,471,000 
for the electronic counting of the 2012 London Mayor and 
Assembly Elections and there was no similar project in 2013.
However, in August 2013 we were pleased to announce that 
we have agreed a two-year extension (to September 2016) 
of the agreement with AQA Education, a leading UK provider 
of academic qualifications, for the provision of e-Marker® 
examination software and services. We continue to work 
with AQA Education and our other UK clients to support 
the transition in their business which is arising from the 
government’s plans to reform GCSEs and GCE ALevels. These 
reforms will see the removal of modularisation, a move to a 
numerical grading system and the abolition of course work. 
The plans are for selected subjects to be ready for teaching 
in 2015 and the first exams to take place in 2017.
INTERNATIONAL SALES
During 2013 DRS experienced incremental demand from 
several key overseas markets, particularly in Africa. As a 
result international sales increased by 4.79% to £7,475,000 
(2012: £7,133,000). 
The Group made progress in the execution of its strategy to 
expand education products and services into new overseas 
markets, with the signing of strategic partner agreements 
with Globarena and Edutech in India. Globarena is a well 
established organisation providing learning and assessment 
solutions to the Indian education market and Edutech is a 
specialist provider of education solutions and technology to 
India and the Middle-East. 
In the non-Education market, DRS signed a Long Term 
Agreement with the United Nations Population Fund 
(UNFPA) in June 2013. This Agreement provides a framework 
for contracts to be awarded for international census 
projects. Earlier in the year we successfully completed a 
pilot project for a census for Myanmar in south-east Asia 
and following this were pleased to be awarded the contract 
for the provision of the full census solution, including forms, 
technology, training and support. Myanmar has a population 
of approximately 60 million people and is undertaking its 
first census for thirty years. The project requires the design, 
printing and shipping of 16 million specially formulated 
questionnaires, which, after the census in April 2014, will be 
scanned and analysed. Approximately 78% of the contract 
was delivered in 2013.
DIVIDEND POLICY
The Directors propose a final dividend of 0.4p per share 
(2012: 0.4p).
The Board follows a dividend policy which provides a return 
to Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue 
to fund the development of the Group’s products. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development is a fundamental part of DRS’ 
strategy. A structured programme of work to generate new 
products for our education business and the PhotoScribe® 
scanners has resulted in increased investment. Total 
expenditure on all product development during 2013, 
which included e-Marker® amortisation, was £2,589,000 
(2012: £1,902,000). Only costs related to the creation of 
new functionality were capitalised. The remaining costs 
including amortisation and amounting to £1,384,000 
(2012: £1,373,000) have been expensed through the Income 
Statement.
e-Marker®
DRS’ largest development programme continues to be its 
examination marking solution, e-Marker®. The e-Marker® 
roadmap for the current generation of the product saw the 
release of new versions of the software during 2013 which 
added functionality in support of new and existing business. 
Further improvements are planned for 2014 relating to the 
release of a series of components of the next generation of 
the e-Marker® platform which will provide improvements 
over the next few years to customers in the UK and 
internationally. This output is the foundation of continued 
development in DRS’ examination product suite, enhancing 
and ultimately replacing the current e-Marker® product.
PhotoScribe®
In 2012 development work began on the next generation of 
PhotoScribe® scanning machines. In 2013 a new platform 
for a new range of machines was produced that can handle 
larger documents than the current PhotoScribe® PS900 
range. The new machines should deliver faster scanning 
throughput with greater paper handling tolerances and 
produce higher definition images.  A prototype machine is 
being completed, and the intention is to have a new model 
available in the second half of 2015.
LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group held £3,680,000 in cash at the end of 2013 
(2012: £3,990,000). The £310,000 decline in cash holding 
over 2013 is offset by a £683,000 increase in trade 
receivables as a result of a high-volume of sales during 
December for which 92% of the payments were received 
in January 2014. The Group maintains its cash holding at 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
12
 STRATEGIC REPORT
