 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
MARKETS
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data 
capture technology and solutions in the UK and 
overseas to three main market sectors: Education, 
and non-Education consisting mainly of Elections 
and Census. 
The Group’s core business is the delivery of time-critical, 
large-scale, logistically challenging solutions for examination 
processing, elections and population censuses. We implement 
complete solutions using our extensive expertise in document 
design, printing, forms scanning, software development, 
logistics, project management and consultancy. 
The combination of software products, professional 
services, scanner technology and specialised printing of 
forms, provides clients with robust end-to-end solutions 
for major data capture and processing projects. 
The provision of services, scanning technology and printed 
forms provides the common link between the three 
distinct market sectors in which the Group operates. 
Specialised software has been created for each market 
sector which is combined with the above elements to 
produce the large-scale solutions which the Group sells.
 Education
For over four decades DRS has supported awarding bodies, 
assessment authorities, schools, colleges and universities 
in the UK and in selected overseas markets, providing 
secure data capture and examination processing products 
and specialist services.
DRS is the provider of the longest established online 
examination marking service in the UK. Awarding bodies and 
professional bodies have been using electronic marking to 
mark high-stakes, high-volume general qualifications such 
as GCSE and GCE A-level examinations since 2002. AQA 
Education, a leading UK provider of academic qualifications, 
remains the Group’s largest customer overall, among a range 
of awarding bodies and other examining entities in the UK 
and overseas.
The products and services provided by the Group 
include:
•  Software: DRS marking and examination software 
including e-Marker® software for online electronic 
examination marking and Multiple Choice 
Questionnaire (MCQ) marking software;
•  Services: full service bureau operations in the UK, 
providing secure receipt and storage of scripts, 
scanning and imaging of completed exam answer 
booklets and electronic delivery of online marking, 
as well as on-site professional services for client’s in-
house operations or to support partners delivering such 
services overseas;
•  Scanning equipment : DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series 
scanners: robust, high speed, network-ready form 
scanners able to capture complex data in real-time; and
•  Printed forms: production of bespoke examination 
scripts including fully optimised examiner answer and 
mark sheets for electronic capture, exam entry and 
registration forms incorporating photo capture and 
MCQ answer forms and exam marking forms.
Steve Gowers 
CEO
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8
 STRATEGIC REPORT  Elections
DRS provides an end-to-end solution for electronically 
counted elections including ballot design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and training. We cover 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative and local council elections 
as well as employee and trade union ballots.
We have developed knowledge and expertise through the delivery 
of national and local elections in a number of markets including 
Europe, Africa and the Middle-East. In 2012 DRS, working in 
conjunction with ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited) under 
the name IntElect®, provided the technology and expertise for the 
electronic counting of ballots in London for the Mayor of London 
and London Assembly elections, the third time since 2000 that 
the Group has delivered this election. Taking place every four 
years, this is one of the most complex elections in the UK, with  
5.8 million voters and three ballot papers per voter. In 2014 
we were pleased to announce that IntElect® was awarded the 
contract to deliver the forthcoming election in 2016.
DRS Election software, scanning equipment and services 
include the following:
•  Softwar e: electronic counting (e-Counting) solutions for 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
elections, local and regional council elections and by-elections;
•  Services: provision of professional and technical services 
and project management for complex election projects;
•  Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series 
scanners for ballot scanning and for voter registration; and
•  Printed forms: ballot paper design and forms production. 
 Census
DRS Census services provide data capture solutions for 
large-scale censuses including paper-based national or 
regional population censuses and specialised industrial, 
commercial and agricultural censuses. Any census is 
a complex undertaking presenting many challenges, 
especially concerning the collection and dissemination of 
the data.
The Group has delivered national population censuses 
around the world, with several in Africa including Nigeria, 
Ethiopia, Malawi, Sudan, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Tanzania. 
In 2013 we signed a long-term agreement with the United 
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) which provides a 
framework for census contracts in the future. The first sale 
under that agreement was a contract for the provision of a 
solution for the Myanmar census, which DRS successfully 
completed during 2014. 
We recognise that every census project is different and 
that market requirements are constantly changing. DRS 
has therefore developed a flexible, adaptable solution 
combined with proven and innovative data capture 
methods and technology. The Group is able to provide 
complete bespoke solutions, including:
•  Software: customised census software to handle 
Optical Mark Recognition (OMR), Intelligent Character 
Recognition (ICR), barcode and image; 
•  Services: provision of professional and technical services 
and project management to cover all stages of a project 
from planning through to project implementation, 
document scanning of enumeration/census forms 
using DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series scanners, data 
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL
The Group’s core business is the delivery of time-critical, 
large-scale, logistically challenging solutions for examination 
processing, elections and population censuses in the UK and 
overseas. Such solutions depend, in different combinations on 
the Group’s expertise in document design, printing, scanning of 
forms, software development, logistics, project management 
and consultancy. The software element has, over time, become 
increasingly important such that the Group’s core strategy is to 
develop its software-based services business. The Group’s product 
development programmes reflect that strategy and currently the 
Group is directing its principal software development effort into 
products for its education solutions and is continuing to invest in 
the competitiveness of its scanners.
Education
Our core education business focuses on the delivery of solutions 
for student registration and examination processing and the 
electronic marking of high-stakes, high-volume examinations.
The business strategy is focussed on carefully selected 
geographies that the Group feels represent the best opportunities 
for growth for DRS’ education products and services, with a 
particular focus on Africa and India, including both secondary and 
higher education examination processing. 
The education market is a particular focus because it offers 
regular and repeatable business opportunities arising from the 
annual cycle of examinations. The Group’s view is that these 
markets offer the necessary scale of opportunity, in terms of 
numbers of students, student volume growth and examination 
volumes to meet DRS’ growth aspirations. Africa in particular 
is a market in which the business has built strong relationships 
over many years with both public and private sector specialist 
organisations, including national and regional awarding, 
assessment and educational bodies and government institutions.
Key drivers include the size and growth of the student populations 
in these markets, the investment being made in education 
by governments and individuals and the potential benefits 
that electronic marking offers as a replacement for what are 
predominantly manual processes in the majority of overseas 
markets. These benefits include enhancements to the data 
collection process by reducing transportation of answer booklets, 
improvements in marking quality and better use of markers 
through targeted allocation and re-allocation of scripts and real-
time monitoring of marking, the removal of bias and improved 
administration and reporting of the marking process.
The e-Marker® solution provides awarding bodies with the 
functionality for Item Level Marking, allowing a script to 
be split into individual questions which may be marked by 
different examiners. Such a solution offers the potential for 
improvements in efficiency and accuracy in marking and 
the reduction of the influence of a single examiner over a 
whole script.
It is our intention to offer these services and solutions, 
including the e-Marker® electronic marking solution, either 
directly or in conjunction with carefully selected strategic 
partners in each of our markets. 
The business model in the UK is based on direct sales and 
the delivery model is to offer a full bureau service, including 
script handling, scanning and image preparation for electronic 
marking and the delivery of online marking services to 
exam markers through the e-Marker® software as a service, 
supported by DRS staff. 
In the overseas markets the services which support the use 
of e-Marker® may be offered directly or delivered through 
selected service provider partners to provide script handling, 
scanning and electronic marking services. We are currently 
working with a number of partners in Africa and India to 
develop these services and future growth opportunities 
will arise from the development of these channels, both to 
grow volume with existing customers and to open up new 
opportunities when applicable.
The licence model that DRS uses for e-Marker® is to charge a 
recurring fee, with a per-transaction (per-examination script) 
charge applied for the use of the licence. Other DRS solutions, 
such as MCQ may be licenced to clients for an up-front initial 
licence fee. 
Elections and Census
In addition to the recurring opportunities offered by the 
education market, the Group is also continuing to pursue 
large-scale, one-off opportunities in the elections and census 
markets, based on DRS software applications and the Group’s 
PhotoScribe® scanners. The focus is on national population 
censuses in selected markets, voter registration and ballot 
counting for large statutory and non-statutory elections.
Our customers require a combination of data capture, 
processing and reporting solutions as well as the delivery of 
related services which include technology infrastructure design, 
operational training, document printing, scanning and data 
handling. These solutions and services in combination result in 
the provision of a full end-to-end service.
A key factor in the Census market is that it is subject to a 
decennial cycle, with the majority of censuses being clustered 
on or around the decade end. Outside of those peaks there 
are markedly fewer projects, limited to those countries which 
have not held a census for some time or decide to carry out 
an intercensal population survey. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
 STRATEGIC REPORT
processing and export of the data to a chosen analysis 
package for complex census projects;
•  Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series 
scanners; and
•  Printed forms: enumeration/census forms design and 
printing.  OBJECTIVES
As a business we continue to focus on solutions that provide 
for large-scale, secure capture and processing of high-stakes 
data, primarily from manually completed, paper-based 
forms and the output of the results to a fixed timetable. 
These results might be election counts, census results or 
examination marks. Elections and Census, offer opportunities 
that, while they are high value are, by their nature, non-
recurring and tend to be project based requiring specific 
customisation. By contrast, events in the Education market 
such as examinations are regular and repeatable and offer 
the opportunity for recurring revenue streams. Because of 
this we have a particular objective to increase revenue from 
the education market. 
A key objective for the business continues to be the delivery 
of new products and related professional services and the 
Group is continuing to invest in Research and Development 
(R&D) in line with its multi-year development and 
implementation programme for the release and roll-out of 
the new e-Marker® platform with a focus on new business 
and, over the long-term, the transition of existing clients 
from the legacy product to the new platform. 
In the census and elections markets the primary objective is 
to continue to successfully meet all the milestones for the 
multi-year project with the Greater London Authority (GLA) 
for the delivery of the 2016 Mayor of London and London 
Assembly elections.
As a result of the current market conditions, in the short-
term a particular focus will be on actions to increase 
resilience in the business through appropriate cost saving 
measures and robust cash management.
OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
The Group had a difficult year in 2014, achieving overall 
revenue for the year of £13,684,000 (2013: £18,095,000) 
and a loss before tax prior to the exceptional item, as 
disclosed in Note 10, of £1,138,000 (2013: profit before tax 
£1,269,000). 
2014 saw a reduction in Education revenue overall of 15.7% to 
£13,027 ,000 (2013: £15,450,000). The structural changes to 
academic qualifications in the UK secondary education market 
caused a decline in demand for examination marking services, 
which resulted in a reduction in UK Education revenue of 6.6% 
to £9,872,000 (2013: £10,570,000). Challenging economic 
conditions in the overseas market for the Group’s traditional 
scanner and print sales, in particular in Africa, resulted in a 
lack of MCQ opportunities and reduced scanner sales. The 
weaker performance in these markets resulted in a reduction 
in International Education revenue to £3,155,000 (2013: 
£4,880,000).
In the Group’s non-Education markets, while an overall 
reduction in revenue was anticipated, the Group had identified 
a prospective international census project that was expected 
to complete during the year. Such projects are usually large-
scale opportunities generating up to £1,000,000 or more 
in revenue. However during the year the prospective client 
decided to undertake their count manually. In the absence 
of any other large-scale projects, this resulted in reduced 
census and election revenue for the year of £585,000 (2013: 
£2,043,000).
UK SALES
UK sales overall in 2014 were £9,892,000, a reduction of 
6.9% (2013: £10,620,000) as a result of the above-mentioned 
market conditions.
We continue to work with AQA and our other UK clients to 
support the transition in their business which is arising from 
the government’s plans to reform GCSEs and A-levels. These 
reforms will see the removal of modularisation, a move to a 
numerical grading system and the abolition of course work. 
The plans are for selected subjects to be ready for teaching in 
2015 and the first exams to take place in 2016 and 2017 .
In the UK, electronic marking has been widely adopted for 
general qualifications, with around two thirds of all scripts 
being marked on-screen. In conjunction with the current 
examination reforms, there are industry wide initiatives by 
the awarding bodies to increase the proportion of scripts 
marked electronically. During 2014 DRS provided electronic 
marking services for the majority of AQA’s GCSEs and A-level 
scripts, for which DRS was paid a fee covering the service 
bureau operations for the scanning and imaging of scripts 
and for the delivery of DRS’ online marking solution. The 
remaining volume, which was deemed to be unsuitable for 
Item Level Marking, has historically been marked manually 
and the results stored in e-Marker®, for which a reduced fee 
is charged.
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
EDUCATION COMMERCIAL ELECTIONS AND 
CENSUS
TOTAL
£000’s 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
UK Sales 9,872 10,570 19 39 1 11 9,892 10,620
International Sales 3,155 4,880 53 563 584 2,032 3,792 7,475
Total 13,027 15,450 72 602 585 2,043 13,684 18,095 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
On 24 March 2015, we were pleased to announce a new 
agreement with AQA Education, a leading UK provider of 
academic qualifications, for the provision of e-Marker® 
examination software and services. DRS recognises that in 
providing these services we compete with other suppliers 
and that AQA has introduced a multi-supplier model which 
will enable them to reduce manual marking and increase the 
percentage of scripts they mark electronically, while at the 
same time mitigating supplier risk. Over the three year term 
of the new agreement DRS will remain the primary provider 
delivering the majority of the electronic marking volume 
to AQA, with the principal focus continuing to be on the 
provision of Item Level Marking services. 
INTERNATIONAL SALES
As expected, during 2014 DRS saw lower demand from 
overseas markets and as a result of a combination of the 
absence of any large-scale elections and census projects 
and weak demand for traditional scanner and print business, 
particularly in Africa, international sales overall were 
significantly reduced in comparison with prior years, with 
revenue of £3,792,000 (2013: £7 ,475,000). 
DIVIDEND POLICY
The Board follows a dividend policy which provides a return 
to Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue to 
fund the development of the Group’s products. 
As a consequence of trading conditions in 2014, the Directors 
do not propose the payment of a final dividend (2013: 0.4p).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development continues to be a fundamental 
part of DRS’ strategy. A structured programme of work to 
generate new products for our education business and the 
PhotoScribe® scanners has resulted in a significant level of 
expenditure in 2014. A breakdown of the investment over 
2013 and 2014 is set out in the tables below:
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
12
 STRATEGIC REPORT
2014
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 1,192 981 - 2,173
Hardware Research and Development 491 - 302* 793
Total cash spend 1,683 981 302* 2,966
Amortisation 135 - - 135
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,818 981 302* 3,101
2013
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 731 1,182 - 1,913
Hardware Research and Development 548 23 - 571
Total cash spend 1,279 1,205 - 2,484
Amortisation 105 - - 105
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,384 1,205 - 2,589
* This amount is included within Trade and other receivables. e-Marker®
DRS’ largest development programme continues to 
be investment in its examination marking software 
solution, e-Marker®. 2014 saw the completion of the first 
components of the new e-Marker® platform, despite delays 
in development, which will provide improvements and 
new capabilities, including whole script marking, that will 
provide benefits to customers in the UK and internationally 
over the next few years. This is the foundation of a 
continuing development programme for DRS’ examination 
product suite, with the goal of enhancing and ultimately 
superseding the current e-Marker® product.
In 2015 further functional enhancements to the new 
e-Marker® platform will be developed based on the 
new platform.
PhotoScribe®
During 2014 development work continued on the next 
generation of PhotoScribe® scanning machines, a new 
platform for a range of machines that can handle larger 
documents than the current PS900 range. The new model, 
the PS1000, should demonstrate faster scanning throughput 
with greater paper handling tolerances and produce higher 
definition images. 
The new PhotoScribe® PS1000 scanner will go through 
a series of prototype and pre-production stages during 
the course of 2015 prior to commencing the initial 
manufacturing build stage, which will continue into 2016.
LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group held £3,612,000 in cash at the end of 2014 (2013: 
£3,680,000). A high-volume of sales during December 2013 
resulted in a year-end trade and other receivables balance 
of £4,056,000. Trade and other receivables have been 
reduced during 2014 to £1,452,000 and the cash inflow 
has offset the cash outflow resulting from the trading loss 
and the investment in developing new products. The Group 
continues to maintain its cash holding at such levels in order 
to have the funds available to support its working capital 
requirements and to be able to fund product development 
and deliver large election and census contracts. 
The Group’s policy continues to be to take a cautious 
approach to Treasury Management with a view to minimising 
its exposure to risk. Only short-term investments that do 
not put the capital at risk are considered and the Group’s 
cash holding is split between three banks to minimise 
exposure to potential risk associated with a bank failure. 
The Group’s principal bank through which normal business 
activity is transacted continues to be Barclays Bank plc. DRS 
Data Services Limited has a £250,000 overdraft facility and 
a £180,000 credit line to cover operational performance 
bonds required in the general line of business. In January 
2013 the Group extended its mortgage facility with Barclays 
Bank plc to 2018. The balance on this mortgage at the end of 
2014 was £1,506,000 (2013: £1,731,000).
In view of these arrangements the Directors believe the 
access to cash resources is adequate to meet liabilities as 
they fall due over the next 12 months.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal financial controls are based upon a budgetary 
process which begins with the Board agreeing a three year 
strategic plan detailing corporate objectives. The Board is 
then asked to approve an annual budget that is prepared 
by senior managers working with the Executive Directors 
which is in line with the corporate objectives agreed in 
the three year plan. A comprehensive strategic planning, 
budgeting and forecasting system is in place. Monthly 
financial information, including trading results and cash flow 
statements, are reported to the Board and management. 
Senior managers’ performance is then monitored against the 
agreed financial performance targets on a monthly basis. The 
overall approach is supported by detailed internal financial 
controls operated on a day-to-day basis on all aspects of 
the business. Proper accounting records are maintained and 
the reliability of management information, compliance with 
appropriate legislation and regulation and the identification 
and control of business risks are continually assessed. 
The Board considers that there is an effective ongoing 
process in place within the Company for identifying, 
understanding, evaluating and managing significant risks 
facing the Group. The Board meets monthly to review 
performance against budget and forecast and Mark Tebbutt, 
the Finance Director, regularly reviews the consolidation 
and analysis of material variances. The Audit Committee 
reviews the application of International Financial Reporting 
Standards and any significant accounting judgements made 
by management. The process remains in place at the date 
of approval of this report. It manages the risk of failure 
to achieve strategic objectives, and provides reasonable 
(though not absolute) assurances against material 
misstatement or loss.
Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that appropriate action is 
taken promptly to remedy significant weaknesses which may 
be identified.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and 
policies of the Group, and exposures to financial risks are 
given in Note 4.1 to the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
