 3
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
AT A GLANCE
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data capture 
technology and solutions in the UK and overseas to 
three market sectors: Education, Elections and Census.
DRS specialises in providing sophisticated scanning and software data capture technologies, and solutions for 
education, elections and censuses all over the world. Our many years of experience in the field of data capture 
and our unique combination of skills enables us to deliver complete solutions designed to meet market and 
customer demands. 
As a business we continue to focus on solutions that provide for large-scale secure capture and processing of high-stakes data, 
primarily from manually completed, paper-based forms and the output of the results to a fixed schedule. These results might 
be election counts, census results or examination marks. Two of the markets, Census and Elections, offer opportunities that, 
while they are high value are, by their nature, non-recurring and tend to be project based requiring specific customisation. 
By contrast, events in the Education market such as examinations are regular and repeatable and offer the opportunity for 
recurring revenue streams. We have a particular objective to maintain a stable UK revenue stream and increase revenue from 
the international education market. 
 2014 2013
 £000 £000
Turnover 13,684 18,095
(Loss)/profit before tax (1,951) 1,269
Cash reserves 3,612 3,680
Earnings per share  4.90p 4.38p 
Research and Development spend 2,966 2,484
Education revenue 13,027 15,450
Non-Education revenue 657 2,645
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
KEY MARKETS
EDUCATION
For over four decades DRS has 
supported awarding bodies, assessment 
authorities, schools, colleges and 
universities in the UK and in selected 
overseas markets, providing secure data 
capture and examination processing 
products and specialist services.
ELECTIONS
DRS provides an end-to-end solution 
for electronically counted elections 
including form design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and 
training. We cover statutory and non-
statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative 
and local council elections as well as 
employee and trade union ballots.
CENSUS
DRS Census services provide data 
capture solutions for large-scale 
censuses including paper-based national 
or regional population censuses and 
specialised industrial, commercial and 
agricultural censuses. Any census is a 
complex undertaking presenting many 
challenges, especially concerning the 
collection and dissemination of the data.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4
STRATEGIC
REPORT
