 Overview
At the start of the financial year 2002/03,
we recognised that we could not expect any
significant improvement in demand in most
of our markets and that we were also facing 
a squeeze on our margins in paper following
a sharp rise in recovered paper prices.
Against this background, our principal
financial objectives were to maintain 
our progress in Packaging and to improve
profitability in Office Products. I am pleased
to report that the team’s concentration on
mix management, cutting costs and attention
to cash, combined with the benefits from
actions we had taken previously, enabled 
us to meet these objectives while also
continuing the development of the Group.
Group sales increased by 3% to
£1,479.0 million, of which 2% was
attributable to acquisitions. Operating 
profit before exceptional items and
amortisation of intangibles advanced in 
all four of our business segments, giving 
an overall increase of 22% to £88.0 million;
at constant exchange rates the increase was
20%. Operating margin rose from 5.0% to
5.9% while return on average capital employed
moved from 9.2% to 11.3%. Interest cover
remained strong at 8.3 times.
Profit before tax, exceptional items and
amortisation of intangibles rose 27% to
£79.7 million while adjusted earnings per
share advanced by 29% to 18.0p.
The cash inflow after dividends, but before
net acquisitions, was £31.7 million. After net
expenditure on acquisitions of £16.1 million,
principally in the liquid packaging and
dispensing segment of Plastic Packaging,
there was a net cash inflow of £15.6 million
which resulted in net borrowings of
£202.3 million (2001/02: £195.9 million) 
after the effect of exchange rate movements.
The resultant gearing was 43% (45%).
These results reflect the strength of many of
the Group’s market positions and the skill
and determination with which the divisional
management teams have run their operations.
Packaging
Our larger activity , Packaging, which
accounted for 64% of Group sales and 77% 
of normalised operating profit, raised sales
and operating profit before exceptional items
and amortisation of intangibles by 6% despite
flat or declining demand in the majority 
of its markets. The recent acquisitions made 
a strong contribution to this result.
In Corrugated and Paper , sales and 
operating profit before exceptional items 
and amortisation of intangibles both
increased by 4%. The management of price
volatility was particularly challenging this
year. Price movements in recovered paper ,
our principal raw material, resulted in periods
of margin squeeze and triggered substantial
movements in paper and corrugated prices
over the course of the year. W e dealt with
these changing circumstances through 
timely price adjustments and continuing 
cost control, although the underlying lack 
of customer demand limited our scope to
recover fully raw material cost increases.
Despite increased efficiencies, this market
environment resulted in lower profits from
our UK paper operations. An underlying
improvement in the performance of our
corrugated operations, enhanced by the
benefits of recent investment and, in the 
UK, by the acquisition of Danisco’s plants,
allowed us to more than compensate for 
this profit shortfall.
In Plastic Packaging, we continued to 
make good progress, with a 13% increase 
in sales and a 16% advance in operating profit
before exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles. Strong growth was maintained 
in liquid packaging and dispensing, boosted
by the acquisition of a leading European
manufacturer of bag-in-box packaging.
Since the year end we have also acquired 
the remaining 50% shareholding in our
Australasian operation, strengthening our
base in the Asia-Pacific market. In industrial
returnable transit packaging (RTP), our
bottle crate business performed well.
Trends in sales of other RTP products varied,
depending upon the sector , but were helped
by new product development and our pan-
European approach to the market.
5 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’ s Review
Tony Thorne
We improved our
operations and
continued the 
strategic development 
of our businesses Office Products
The decisive actions taken by the management
teams towards the end of 2001/02 in both
Wholesaling and Manufacturing resulted 
in a turnaround in profits despite the very
poor demand for office products across
Europe. T otal Office Products sales were 
2% lower, partly due to decisions to exit 
some unprofitable areas of business, but
operating profit before exceptional items 
and amortisation of intangibles increased
from £8.1 million to £20.2 million.
In Office Products Wholesaling, the 
extensive improvement programme that 
was implemented throughout Spicers’
operations enabled it to meet its targets 
for rebuilding profitability . Operating profit
before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles increased from £9.7 million 
to £16.2 million. In the UK, high service 
levels were achieved and margins improved
through reduced operating costs and margin
management. Spicers France, operating 
in increasingly tough market conditions,
performed well although its result was 
slightly lower than the previous year. Spicers
Germany has rebuilt customer confidence
and is now making progress in very tough
market conditions, while in Spain, where 
we are still at an early stage of development,
sales are growing steadily .
Our Office Products Manufacturing business,
John Dickinson, achieved a turnaround in
profit from a loss before exceptional items 
of £1.6 million to a profit of £4.0 million,
benefiting from both significant cost
reduction and lower depreciation following
the impairment of assets taken in 2001/02.
Strategy
The Group has strong market positions 
with good potential in both its Packaging
and Office Products activities. We will
continue to use our sound financial base 
and strong management teams to develop
these two activities in parallel. In order to
improve overall returns we will restructure
businesses where necessary or exit them 
if we do not believe we can raise returns 
to satisfactory levels. In 2002/03 we sold 
three small peripheral businesses for a total
consideration of £4.5 million. New capital 
for investment or acquisitions continues 
to be committed prudently with the priorities
being cost reduction and the seizing of
opportunities in new products or markets.
In Corrugated and Paper, two important
trends that our strategy is addressing are 
the greater growth for corrugated packaging
in central and eastern Europe, and the
increase in demand for lighter weight papers.
In recognition of the low market growth in
the UK and France, we have set demanding
productivity targets for our operations 
in these markets while concentrating our
development efforts on higher margin
segments. Building on our strong bases 
in the UK and France, we are growing 
our corrugated packaging positions in 
Italy, Poland and the Ukraine. Despite
ongoing operational improvements in our
Turkish business, the country’s economic
environment is such that the business is loss
making and the resolution of this situation
remains a priority . We continue to be alert to
good value bolt-on acquisitions in corrugated
packaging. In our Paper operations, we are
meeting the market trend to lighter weight
papers through adapting successfully our
existing mills to run these products efficiently .
Plastic Packaging has the prospect of
strong and profitable growth in our selected
markets. We now have a leading global
business in liquid packaging and dispensing,
a market that is expected to continue
expanding and should provide further
development opportunities. In industrial
RTP we have developed strong European
positions in a number of sectors of the
market in which we can build organically 
and through acquisitions.
Spicers Office Products Wholesaling has
pre-eminent positions in the UK and France,
emerging positions in Germany and Spain
6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’ s Review
Tony Thorne
Contributing 
to progress
People throughout the Group played
their part in improving our operations
1 Our manufacturing teams use their
expertise to produce top quality packaging.
2 Paper reels receive a final inspection to
ensure they meet customers’ requirements.
3 Spicers’ customer service teams operate 
to demanding response standards.
2 1 and a base for entering the Italian market 
in late 2004. We are confident, given our
success in France and the development of
an expanding customer base in Germany,
that we can enhance the value of Spicers
through building its position in continental
Europe. The priority for management is to
achieve profit breakthrough in Germany 
and strong sales growth in Spain.
Pension scheme
During the year we reviewed the position 
of our UK defined benefits pension scheme.
We decided to retain the scheme for current
and new members, while keeping the position
under review pending the next triennial
valuation which is due to take place as at
April 2004. In the year, we reduced some of
the benefits to lower the ongoing cost of the
scheme to the Company . The Company has
resumed payments into the scheme at the rate
of £10 million per annum, broadly the annual
cost of the scheme, with £5 million being paid
in the second half of 2002/03. In accordance
with SSAP 24, these payments are being
treated as prepayments on the balance sheet
and are not being shown as a charge to 
the profit and loss account until the next
triennial valuation. The historic SSAP 24
surplus will continue to generate a net 
credit to the profit and loss account of
approximately £10 million until the next
valuation, thereby offsetting the ongoing
costs of providing benefits under the scheme,
resulting in a nil SSAP 24 pension charge.
Under the FRS 17 accounting standard 
the scheme had a post-tax net deficit, as at
30 April 2003, of £93.8 million compared with
a post-tax net deficit of £7.3 million a year ago.
Outlook
In 2002/03 we improved our operations and
continued the strategic development of our
businesses. These actions underpinned the
year’s results and further strengthened our
market positions.
We have yet to see an improvement in the
trading environment. Therefore, our focus
will continue to be on raising operational
performance and building on these strong
market positions. While, at this early stage 
of the year, movements in recovered paper
prices are putting increased pressure on
margins in our substantial Paper business,
I am confident that the rest of the Group 
will make further progress.
Tony Thorne
Group Chief Executive
7 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
3
Our focus will continue
to be on raising
operational performance
and building on our
strong market positions
