 2002/03 was a challenging year in which
demand weakened in most of our markets.
We also had to contend with substantial
fluctuations in the price of recovered paper,
the principal raw material for our largest
business segment, Corrugated and Paper
Packaging. Despite these difficulties,
I am pleased to report that we met our 
key objectives of maintaining progress 
in Packaging and rebuilding profitability 
in Office Products. This was achieved
through continuing to raise operational
performance and realising the benefits 
of the acquisitions made in recent years.
The Group’s earnings per share before
exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles advanced by 29% to 18.0p.
The net cash inflow after dividends and
acquisitions was £15.6 million compared 
with an outflow of £1.6 million in the
previous year.
Y our Board attaches considerable importance
to the Group’s capacity to pay its shareholders
a reliable and significant dividend consistent
with its objective of sustaining around two
times dividend cover over the course of the
business cycle. The Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share
which, together with the interim dividend of
2.8p, maintains the total dividend for the year
at 8.8p per ordinary share.
The Group continues to pursue its strategy 
of operational improvement and development
of its two principal activities, Packaging and
Office Products Wholesaling. In 2002/03, we
built further on our strong market positions
and raised the Group’s return on capital
employed from 9.2% to 11.3%. We will
continue to invest in capital projects and 
bolt-on acquisitions which strengthen our
competitiveness in selected sectors, while
remaining focused on raising returns.
In November 2002, Gavin Morris was
appointed Group Finance Director,
bringing extensive financial and international
management experience to the Group.
David Buttfield, who had been Group Finance
Director since 1994, took early retirement
and stood down from the Board in January
2003. The Board thanks David for his
valuable contribution and for maintaining
the Group’s sound financial position through
an ever-changing trading environment.
I would also like to thank all the Group’s
employees worldwide for their contribution
to the year’s good result. The progress 
we have achieved in such tough market
conditions would not have been possible
without their enthusiasm and commitment.
Over the last year , the Group has demonstrated
its resilience and its ability to operate
successfully in tough markets. In the current
year, margins in our Paper business are under
increased pressure but we are confident that
the other parts of the Group will make
further progress.
Antony Hichens
Chairman
4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
Chairman’ s Statement
Antony Hichens
We met our key objectives
of maintaining progress
in Packaging and 
rebuilding profitability
in Office Products
