 In 2003/04, DS Smith produced a creditable
result and made important strategic progress.
Conditions remained challenging in most of
our markets and the cyclical downturn in the
paper market reduced margins significantly in
our waste-based Paper business. The Group
benefited from our continued focus on raising
operational performance with further profit
advances in Corrugated Packaging and Office
Products Wholesaling.
The acquisition of LINPAC Containers,
completed in March 2004, enlarged our
position in UK Corrugated Packaging. 
The £167 million acquisition was partly
financed by a one-for-five rights issue, which
raised £70.4 million, net of expenses. It is
disappointing that the acquisition has been
referred to the Competition Commission as
we believe that it will not lessen the vigorous
competition which marks our industry. We
are working closely with the Competition
Commission to seek to satisfy them and their
report is due towards the end of the calendar
year. In the meantime, the business is
performing well, but we are not able to
proceed with the planned integration until 
the inquiry has been completed.
The Group’s earnings per share before
exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles was, at 16.9p, slightly better 
than last year (2002/03: 16.8p restated 
for the bonus element of the rights issue). 
Free cash flow, post dividends but before
acquisitions, of £33.1 million was marginally
ahead of last year (£32.0 million). In spite 
of the acquisition of LINPAC Containers,
gearing only increased from 42.8% 
to 48.9%.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend
of 5.6p per ordinary share which, together
with the restated interim dividend of 2.6p,
maintains the total dividend for the year, 
as restated for the rights issue, at 8.2p.
The Group continues to pursue its strategy 
of operational improvement and the
development of its two principal activities,
Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling.
We will maintain the drive to improve the
Group’s return on capital employed, which
was 11.1% in 2003/04, while investing in
capital projects and bolt-on acquisitions
which strengthen the Group’s position in 
its chosen markets. 
In December 2003, two additional Directors
were appointed. Jean-Paul Loison, Divisional
Chief Executive of the Kaysersberg
Packaging Division, responsible for all 
Paper and Corrugated Packaging operations
in continental Europe, was appointed as an
Executive Director. Christopher Bunker, 
who has been Finance Director on the 
boards of three PLCs, was appointed as 
a non-Executive Director. They both 
bring extensive and valuable experience 
to the Board.
This year’s good performance was achieved
through the skills and commitment of the
Group’s employees worldwide. I thank them
all for their continued contribution to meeting
the requirements of our customers and raising
the standards of our operations.
In the coming year we expect to make further
progress in Plastic Packaging and Office
Products Wholesaling. However, our key
paper and corrugated markets remain highly
competitive and, in the face of rising input
costs, the recent paper price rise will not be
sufficient to restore paper margins. Also as
previously indicated, for the first time for
many years there will now be a significant
charge to the profit and loss account in
respect of the UK pension scheme. Our result
will benefit from the contribution from the
LINPAC Containers acquisition but, until the
outcome of the Competition Commission
inquiry is known, we cannot start to generate
the anticipated synergies. This is likely to be
another challenging year but the Group’s
resilience in recent times gives me
confidence in our future.
Antony Hichens Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004
In 2003/04, we produced 
a creditable result and made 
important strategic progress.
Antony Hichens Chairman
