 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 5
Overview
From the outset, we expected 2003/04 to be 
a difficult year as margins in our important
Paper business were under pressure from
increasing competition in the paper market
and there were no signs of improvement in
the general trading environment. Our principal
objectives were to minimise the impact of the
downturn in Paper margins while continuing
to raise the results of the rest of the Group,
maintain the development of our key market
positions and generate a healthy cash flow. 
I am pleased to report a year of considerable
success against these objectives. We achieved
major profit advances in both Corrugated
Packaging, particularly in continental Europe,
and Office Products Wholesaling, which
largely offset the margin squeeze in Paper
and produced a creditable overall financial
result. We generated a strong cash surplus
after dividends but before net acquisitions.
The acquisition of LINPAC Containers
enlarged our important UK Corrugated
Packaging business. The decision by the
Office of Fair Trading to refer the acquisition
for review by the Competition Commission
means we are unable to proceed with the
planned integration into DS Smith until the
inquiry is complete. 
Group sales and operating profit before
exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles were both 1% ahead of last 
year at £1,488.5 million and £88.8 million,
respectively. Excluding the effect of
acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange
differences, operating profit before exceptional
items and amortisation of intangibles was 
1% lower. In the six weeks of the financial
year in which we owned LINPAC Containers,
it contributed £18.1 million of sales and 
£1.2 million of operating profit to the Group
result. Operating margin before exceptional
items and amortisation of intangibles
increased slightly to 6.0% (2002/03: 5.9%),
while return on average capital employed was
slightly lower at 11.1% (11.3%). Profit before
tax, exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles increased slightly to £81.4 million
(£79.7 million) while adjusted earnings 
per share was also a little ahead. Interest
cover remained strong at 8.8 times.
Overall, this was a robust result, given the
weak paper market, and reflects the success
of our drive to improve and develop the
returns of the Group’s non-Paper operations.
The cash inflow after dividends but before net
acquisitions, was £33.1 million (£32.0 million).
After net expenditure on acquisitions 
of £181.6 million, principally LINPAC
Containers, and including the proceeds from
the rights issue, there was a net cash outflow
of £72.4 million which resulted in net
borrowings of £274.7 million (£202.3 million)
after the effect of exchange rate movements.
The balance sheet remains strong with
gearing at 48.9%, post the acquisition.
Packaging
In our larger activity, Packaging, which
accounted for 64% of Group sales and 74%
of operating profit before amortisation of
intangibles, demand in our principal markets
continued to be flat or declining, and margins
were under pressure, particularly in Paper.
The overall Packaging operating profit 
before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles was 3% down on last year.
We achieved major proﬁt advances 
in both Corrugated Packaging and Ofﬁce
Products Wholesaling, which largely 
offset the margin squeeze in Paper. 
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004
This reflects a very significant shortfall 
in Paper, a good advance in Corrugated
Packaging, particularly on the continent, 
and a small increase in Plastic Packaging.
In Paper and Corrugated Packaging, sales
were flat while operating profit before
exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles fell by 5%. Productivity in our
paper operations improved, but operating
profit was down sharply due to a particularly
hostile combination of lower paper prices 
and higher costs of raw material and energy.
The profit shortfall in Paper was substantially
offset by continued improvement in the
performance of our Corrugated Packaging
operations, particularly in continental Europe,
and the contribution from LINPAC Containers
in the closing weeks of the year. Paper and
box prices increased throughout Europe
towards the end of our financial year; this
provided little benefit in 2003/04. The start
point for 2004/05 was improved by these
increases but we have not been able fully 
to recover increases in input costs.
Although we made progress in Plastic
Packaging, with a 7% advance in sales 
and a 3% increase in operating profit 
before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles, the improvement was less 
than in recent years. In our core businesses 
of industrial returnable transit packaging
(RTP) and liquid packaging and dispensing,
profit improved. We grew strongly in RTP
where our bottle crate business continued 
to perform well, helped by product
innovation and strong market demand. 
In liquid packaging and dispensing, the
European bag-in-box business, including 
the German Zewathener business acquired 
in 2002, traded well but the tap business 
was affected by increased competitor activity
in detergent taps. The division’s overall result
was held back by the results at two small
operations: a specialist coating business,
whose exports to Asia and the Middle East
fell in the first half of the year, and a
modified atmosphere produce packaging
business, StePac, in which we have been
investing. A programme of initiatives has
been implemented across the division to
move results forward again through driving
sales growth and raising productivity.
Ofﬁce Products
Total Office Products sales were 1% lower
but operating profit before exceptional items
and amortisation of intangibles increased by
14%. This advance in profits was despite 
the office products market across Europe
continuing to suffer from poor sales volume
and customers trading down to lower
specification products. 
In Office Products Wholesaling, which
accounted for 94% of our Office Products
sales, operating profit before amortisation of
intangibles increased by 34% to £21.7 million.
The combined profits of our developed
businesses, being Spicers UK, France and
Ireland, were well up on the previous year,
reflecting our actions to cut costs, raise
margins through better buying and improve
the product mix while maintaining service
levels. In our developing markets of Germany
and Spain we had satisfactory sales growth.
Although Spicers Germany remained in 
loss for the year as a whole, it generated 
a positive cash flow and traded at around
break-even in the second half, while Spicers
Spain made good progress against its plan. 
In Italy, preparations are well advanced for
our entry into the market during 2004/05.
In Office Products Manufacturing, operating
profit was £1.4 million (£4.0 million), this
decline against last year reflecting both the
difficult trading conditions and the sale of
Spicer Hallfield towards the end of 2002/03.
Action has been taken to reduce costs further
and to stimulate sales.
LINPAC Containers
The acquisition of LINPAC Containers on 
22 March 2004 made DS Smith the leading
corrugated packaging company in the 
UK. The net cost of the acquisition was 
£167 million, including fees for the
transaction. The acquisition improved our
market position, by broadening the Group’s
customer base, and strengthened our position
as a major buyer and seller of paper. The
business is trading well and we are pleased 
to have its high quality people and operations
within DS Smith. We remain confident 
that the synergies outlined in our circular 
are available but during the Competition
Commission inquiry period LINPAC
Containers and DS Smith Packaging will
carry on business separately; they both 
have good market positions and will 
maintain a strong focus on serving their
respective customers. 
The addition of LINPAC Containers to the
Group improved our market position in
corrugated packaging and strengthened 
our position as a major buyer and seller of
paper. It has high quality staff, an experienced
management team and well-invested facilities.
The integrated box plant at Louth, Lincolnshire
is one of the most advanced in the UK,
operating on a 24-hour, seven-day production
cycle and offering customers the combination
of low-cost, responsive and technically
advanced manufacturing. 
LINPAC Containers acquisition
Innovative manufacturing Paper reels are 
loaded onto an automated handling system which
enables faster paper changes on the corrugator. 
High productivity Technically advanced operating
systems enable the corrugator to achieve superior
output of board.  DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 7
Pension scheme
In accordance with SSAP 24, the 2003/04
results include a nil pension charge for the
Group’s UK defined benefit scheme as the
amortisation of the 2001 surplus largely
offsets the ongoing cost of the scheme. The
triennial valuation of the scheme is currently
taking place and the report is due in autumn
2004. Recognising that, in adverse markets,
the funding position of the scheme had
deteriorated since April 2001, the Company
resumed payments into the scheme, at the
rate of £10 million per annum, in the second
half of 2002/03. As previously indicated, the
Board expects there to be a charge to the
Group’s profit and loss account in respect 
of the scheme in 2004/05. This charge, 
under SSAP 24, will reflect the ongoing 
costs of the scheme of approximately 
£10 million and the amortisation of the
prepayments and any deficit identified by 
the SSAP 24 valuation. 
Under the FRS 17 accounting standard, which
the Company has not adopted, the scheme
had a post-tax net deficit, as at 30 April 2004,
of £54.6 million compared with a post-tax net
deficit of £93.8 million a year ago.
Strategy
We have pursued a strategy of Improve and
Develop over the last three years and this
remains in place; the objective being an
aggressive programme of raising operational
performance across the Group, while seeking
areas to develop our strong market positions
in Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling.
Return on average capital employed is a key
measure for us and our return of 11.1% 
in 2003/04 was slightly above our cost 
of capital. The commitment of capital to
existing operations will remain relatively
tight, investment being concentrated on 
new products, growth markets and major
cost-down opportunities. We will continue to
restructure or exit low performing businesses.
In Paper and Corrugated Packaging there 
is further potential to develop our European
market positions. For our established
corrugated businesses in the UK and France,
where demand is at best flat and price
pressure is intense, we have to look to
innovate on product and service while
lowering costs and increasing efficiency. 
We remain alert to bolt-on acquisitions and
green field development, concentrating on 
the faster growing markets of southern and
eastern Europe. In our UK Paper operations,
where margins have been under greater
pressure than in the past, we are developing
options to address the growing demands 
of our customers for lighter weight papers
and the need to remain internationally
competitive over the longer-term. 
In Plastic Packaging, our strategic segments
continue to present profitable growth
opportunities. In liquid packaging and
dispensing, the highest priority is to deliver
increased returns on the investment made 
in recent years. In industrial RTP, our 
strong European presence provides a base 
for further development both organically 
and through acquisitions.
Spicers is continuing to develop its position
as the leading European office products
wholesaler. Our well-established businesses
in the UK and France are focused on 
This was a robust result, given the weak
paper market, and reﬂects the success 
of our drive to improve and develop the
returns of the Group’s non-Paper operations.
re-invigorating sales growth to raise their
profitability further. In our developing
businesses, our objectives are to bring 
Spicers Germany through to good levels 
of profit, to move the Spanish business to
break-even as rapidly as possible, and to
launch successfully in Italy. We believe 
the value of Spicers is being substantially
enhanced by its continental expansion and
increasing profitability.
The Group’s resilient performance in 
2003/04 is confirmation of our strategic 
and operational progress in recent years.
We intend to build on this in the coming year.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
Service capability Maintaining high service 
levels was a key contributor to Spicers’ progress. 
