 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 5
Chief Executive’s Review
changes to the scheme to reduce the impact
of the increasing cost of pensions. We also
raised our payments into the scheme from
£10 million to £14 million per annum. The
Group’s result for 2004/05, which includes
a significant charge in respect of the UK
pension scheme, is now reported under the
FRS 17 pensions accounting standard and 
the 2003/04 result has been restated as
required by accounting standards; under 
the previously applied SSAP 24 accounting
standard there was no charge. This change
aids comparison between financial years 
and largely anticipates the International
Accounting Standard 19 for Pensions which
the Group will apply in 2005/06.
Financial Results
Group sales advanced by 9.2% to £1,624.9
million, the full year contribution of Linpac
Containers more than offsetting small
reductions in some other segments. Adjusted
1
group operating profit was £83.9 million
(2003/04 restated
2
: £75.4 million) including 
a full year’s contribution from Linpac
Containers of £21.0 million, comprising 
£14.9 million (2003/04: £1.2 million from 
six weeks of DS Smith ownership) from 
its operations and £6.1 million of synergy
benefits in DS Smith’s existing operations.
The Group adjusted return on sales was 
5.2% (2003/04 restated: 5.1%) while adjusted
return on average capital employed was 
9.0% (2003/04 restated: 9.6%). Adjusted
profit before tax was £76.1 million (2003/04
restated: £64.8 million). If the £4.5 million 
of interest paid on the increased debt
attributable to the Linpac Containers
acquisition is taken into account, the
acquisition after synergies contributed 
a net £16.5 million to adjusted profit before 
tax. The adjusted profit contribution from
Linpac Containers of £21.0 million represents
a return on invested capital of 12.3% even
before the full synergy benefits have been
realised and its contribution to 2004/05
earnings per share was 3.0p.
The cash inflow before dividends and net
acquisitions, was £55.4 million (2003/04:
£63.0 million). After net expenditure on
acquisitions and dividends, there was a net
cash inflow of £12.1 million, which resulted
in net borrowings of £260.4 million (2003/04:
£274.7 million) after the effect of exchange
rate movements. The balance sheet remains
strong with gearing at 53.1% (year end
2003/04 restated: 54.9%) and net debt/
adjusted EBITDA of 1.7 times (2003/04
restated: 2.0 times). The adoption of the 
FRS 17 pension accounting standard has
resulted in a net pension scheme deficit 
of £80.3 million being recognised on the
balance sheet which accounts for the gearing
increasing from the previously reported 
figure for 2003/04. 
The sharp rise in energy costs during the 
year significantly affected our 2004/05 
result, particularly in Paper which incurs
approximately three-quarters of the Group’s
energy and fuel costs. The Group’s total costs
for gas, electricity and diesel increased from
circa £64 million in 2003/04 to circa 
£73 million in 2004/05, principally due to 
a 30% year-on-year rise in the UK average
price of gas, which was partially hedged; 
We had a signiﬁcant advance in proﬁt 
in our enlarged Corrugated Packaging
business; in addition the Spicers Ofﬁce
Products Wholesaling business increased
proﬁts for the third successive year.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
Overview
At the start of 2004/05, we predicted a
difficult year ahead and this proved to be 
the case. The external trading environment 
in Paper and Corrugated Packaging remained
weak, the Group had to absorb approximately
£9 million of increased energy costs and
approximately £7 million of higher polymer
costs, we faced a Competition Commission
inquiry into our acquisition of Linpac
Containers, and our results included an 
£11.7 million net pension charge, the first
such charge incurred in many years. I believe
the Group has responded well to the challenges,
generating satisfactory earnings, particularly
at this low point in the paper cycle, and
maintaining a strong balance sheet. We had 
a significant advance in profit in our enlarged
Corrugated Packaging business; in addition
the Spicers Office Products Wholesaling
business increased profits for the third
successive year, while further developing 
its continental European business. 
Following the completion of the triennial
valuation of our UK defined benefit pension
scheme, the Group introduced a number of
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2003/04 ﬁgures reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard were: adjusted
operating proﬁt: £88.8m; proﬁt before tax: £81.4m; adjusted earnings per share: 16.9p; gearing: 48.9% 6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
business were affected by lower demand 
from the US carbonated soft drinks sector. 
The combined result of our three smaller
speciality businesses was flat year-on-year
and, as indicated previously, an exceptional
impairment charge of £5.8 million was 
taken against the goodwill of one of 
these, a business providing packaging
management services. 
Ofﬁce Products
Spicers, our Office Products Wholesaling
business, accounted for 31% of total Group
sales and 26% of adjusted operating profit.
Sales were flat while adjusted operating profit
increased by 10%. Spicers’ UK and French
businesses continued to perform well with 
the UK having returned to sales growth
during the second half of the year. Spicers’
development businesses in continental Europe
made good progress: Spicers Germany moved
into profit; Spicers Spain continued to grow
well and reduced its losses; and initial sales in
Italy have been encouraging since our launch
there in November.
In Office Products Manufacturing, adjusted
operating profit fell to break-even, reflecting
the continued difficult trading conditions in
the envelope market.
Strategy
The strategy we have pursued for the last 
four years of Improve and Develop remains
in place. We have reduced the Group’s
reliance on the cyclical Paper business and
have developed and improved our Corrugated
Packaging, Plastic Packaging and Office
Products Wholesaling activities in order 
gas accounted for approximately 50% of the
2004/05 total energy and fuel expenditure.
The Group has benefited from having hedged
its UK electricity until October 2005 but
current market prices are substantially higher.
Looking forward, the Group expects to incur
in 2005/06 a level of increase in energy and
fuel costs at least of the scale of that seen in
2004/05 and possibly even greater, depending
on energy price developments.
Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In our largest segment, Paper and Corrugated
Packaging, which accounted for 55% of
Group sales and 62% of adjusted operating
profit, demand was slightly stronger than 
in the previous financial year but pricing
remained very competitive throughout the
supply chain. Adjusted operating profit was
26% higher than last year as a result of a full
year’s contribution from Linpac Containers
and increased profits from our existing UK
Corrugated operations which was partly 
offset by a further significant fall in profits
from Paper.
We achieved a good result from our UK
Corrugated Packaging operations, despite 
the heavy demands placed on management
during the five-month-long Competition
Commission inquiry into the Linpac
Containers acquisition. After receiving
unconditional clearance for the deal from 
the Commission, we proceeded rapidly with
the integration and restructuring. We have
already generated substantial synergies and
are confident that, by early 2006/07, we 
will achieve the £14.5 million per annum
originally indicated. Our continental
European operations also produced a good
result, with the Polish business continuing 
to perform strongly, our Turkish operation
reporting a profit after a number of difficult
years and our associate in the Ukraine making
further good progress.
Although profits in Paper were significantly
affected by the pressure on margins from
depressed selling prices and higher energy
costs, we continued to raise productivity 
and strengthened the business through a
number of strategic moves. We enlarged our
important Severnside Recycling recovered
paper collection operation through the
acquisition of BPB plc’s waste collection
depots and advanced the development of 
sales in higher added-value paper products 
by concluding a long-term agreement to
supply plasterboard liner paper to BPB plc,
representing an important diversification 
into a growth market.
Plastic Packaging
Our Plastic Packaging business had a tough
year. Sales, which account for 12% of the
Group total, were 6% lower than the previous
year and adjusted operating profit was 29%
lower. The sharp fall in adjusted operating
profit was mainly due to the reduced sales
and an approximate £3 million under-
recovery of the polymer cost increases, this
despite securing price increases across our
customer base. Sales of industrial returnable
transit packaging (RTP) were lower due to a
slowdown in new crate contracts, exacerbated
by some RTP customers deferring orders
owing to the sharp rise in polymer prices.
Sales in the liquid packaging and dispensing
Our aggressive programme to raise
operational performance while pursuing
opportunities to develop our strong 
market positions has resulted in a
signiﬁcant rise in the proﬁt contribution
from the Group’ s non-Paper operations.
Chief Executive’s Review
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 7
to enhance the quality of earnings. Our
aggressive programme to raise operational
performance while pursuing opportunities 
to develop our strong market positions 
has resulted in a significant rise in the 
profit contribution from the Group’s 
non-Paper operations. 
Adjusted return on average capital employed
was 9.0%, primarily reflecting our current
poor returns in Paper at this low point in 
the paper cycle. Although this level of return
is in line with our cost of capital, we are making
determined efforts to improve it, concentrating
particularly on raising returns in Packaging.
We are continuing our programme to reduce
costs and raise operational performance 
while concentrating capital in areas offering
good profit opportunity. We will maintain
investment in our key assets; capital
expenditure projects in 2005/06 will include
completion of the new green-field corrugated
packaging plant in Poland and upgrading
paper manufacturing at our Kemsley and
Wansbrough mills to underpin the supply 
of plasterboard liner paper to BPB plc.
In Paper and Corrugated Packaging our 
focus in the UK is on realising the remaining
synergies from the Linpac Containers
acquisition and improving the return from 
our substantial integrated position. This 
will be through cost reduction and growing
the sales of differentiated products. In
continental Europe we will seek development
opportunities arising from any further
consolidation in the industry and in the 
higher growth markets of eastern Europe. 
In Plastic Packaging, the priority is to
improve significantly the profitability of our
two strategic businesses. In liquid packaging
and dispensing this will be through increasing
cost competitiveness in the mature end-use
sectors, such as wine and carbonated soft
drinks, while concentrating development
resource in faster-growing end-use sectors
such as dairy products and fruit juice. In
industrial RTP, profit growth will be through
maintaining our strong existing market
positions while following our customers 
into new geographic markets. 
Spicers is already producing high levels 
of return on its capital employed but we
believe it has potential for further profit
improvement. Our medium term goal is to 
see the Spicers’ business model profitably
established in the major markets of western
Europe. In our established markets of the UK,
Ireland and France, the key objective is to
generate profitable sales growth; our goal 
in Germany is to build profits further; we
expect the Spanish business to be in profit 
in 2005/06 while we shall be driving sales 
in our new Italian operation.
Our People 
I would like to thank all our employees
worldwide for their considerable efforts 
over the last year. As I travel around the
Group, I am continually impressed with 
the skills of our people and their contribution
to raising our performance. I particularly 
wish to acknowledge the support and
commitment that our new colleagues from
Linpac Containers maintained through 
the uncertain period of the Competition
Commission hearing. 
Prospects
The considerable operational and strategic
progress made over recent years provides 
a sound base from which to tackle the 
current tough trading environment and the
uncertainty as to the future level of increase
in energy costs. We have opportunities for
improvement and we will be pursuing these
hard in 2005/06.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
Productivity DS Smith Packaging increased output 
per employee. Record production was achieved on 
the corrugator at DS Smith Packaging Devizes. 
Efﬁciency A streamlined procedure for installing 
new reels of plastic ﬁlm reduced machine downtime
at Rapak Rugby.
Service Spicers UK maintained its high service level;
The dealer distribution centre supplies approximately
2,000 dealers nationwide.
