 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Chairman’s Statement
In 2004/05, a further weakening in the paper
market and sharply higher energy and polymer
costs created a very challenging environment,
which was reflected in lower profits in both
our Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses.
Nevertheless, our strategy to enhance
earnings through acquisition and organic
development enabled the Group to produce 
a commendable result. We made progress 
in Corrugated Packaging, thanks both to an
improved result from our existing business
and to the substantial contribution from 
our first full year of ownership of Linpac
Containers. The Spicers Office Products
Wholesaling business continued to advance,
helped by moving into profit in Germany. 
The Group’s adjusted
1
earnings per share
were 14.7 pence (2003/04 restated
2
: 13.6
pence). A strong cash flow, before dividends
and acquisitions, of £55.4 million (2003/04:
£63.0 million) enabled the Group to maintain
a healthy balance sheet, benefiting from the
new financings put in place in the year. The
result includes a significant charge in respect
of DS Smith’s UK defined benefit pension
scheme for the first time for many years and
is now reported under the FRS 17 pensions
accounting standard. As required in the
accounting standard, the 2003/04 result has
been restated to include a pension charge 
in that year. In May 2005, the Group
introduced further changes to the pension
scheme to mitigate the higher cost of
providing pensions. We also increased 
the cash payments into the scheme from 
£10 million to £14 million per annum. 
We are now well advanced with the integration
of Linpac Containers and generating the
expected synergies, despite the delay which
resulted from the referral of the acquisition to
the Competition Commission; the acquisition
finally received unconditional clearance in
October 2004.
The Group’s financial performance reflects
the benefits of the drive over the last three
years to raise the profit contribution of 
our non-Paper activities. This has largely
compensated for both the sharp cyclical fall
in Paper profits and accounting for the cost of
the pension scheme. In Paper and Corrugated
Packaging we began to generate considerable
benefits from our enlarged position in UK
Corrugated Packaging, which materially
offset the challenging conditions in UK Paper,
while we continued the development of our
corrugated packaging business in continental
Europe. We further strengthened the UK
Paper business by enlarging our recovered
paper collection operations and by concluding
a major long-term supply agreement with
BPB plc for plasterboard liner paper, an
important diversification for our paper sales
into a growth market. In Office Products,
Spicers continued its development in
continental Europe: the German business
advanced into solid profit, the Spanish
operation grew rapidly, and we successfully
launched the new Italian business.
Although trading conditions remain 
difficult, the Group has in recent years taken
steps to reduce its reliance on the cyclical
Paper business and has demonstrated its
commitment to generating strong free cash
flow. With the benefits now accruing from 
the enlarged Corrugated Packaging business
and the improving performance of Spicers,
the Board is proposing a 0.2 pence increase 
in the final dividend to 5.8 pence, giving 
a full year dividend of 8.4 pence 
(2003/04: 8.2 pence).
As stated in our April trading update, we 
have begun 2005/06 with energy and other
input costs at considerably higher levels than
at the start of 2004/05. Since April, future
energy costs look like being even higher than
previously expected. We anticipate delivering
the previously indicated synergies from 
the integration of Linpac Containers and
achieving a further advance at Spicers, but 
the extent to which these benefits will be
offset by additional input costs is uncertain.
We will continue our focus on cost recovery
and cash generation.
Antony Hichens Chairman
Antony Hichens Chairman
Our strategy to enhance earnings 
through acquisition and organic
development enabled the Group 
to produce a commendable result.
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’
