 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Chairman’s Statement
Results were affected by a 
harsher than expected trading
environment but we beneﬁted
from our strategic actions.
The Group’s results in 2005/06 were
significantly affected by the further rise in
energy costs. Additionally, stronger competition
in the UK office products wholesaling market
eroded sales margins in our Spicers Office
Products Wholesaling UK business. However,
the strategic actions we have taken to reduce the
Group’s reliance on commodity corrugated case
material (CCM) and to grow our business base
outside the UK have strengthened DS Smith. In
the UK, we achieved the anticipated synergy
benefits from our 2004 corrugated packaging
acquisition, grew sales of plasterboard 
liner strongly, closed two uneconomic paper
production operations and sold two non-core,
loss-making businesses. On the continent, we
expanded further both our eastern European
corrugated packaging and Spicers businesses.
Our actions to improve short-term performance
have included cost-cutting and, in the second
half of the financial year, raising paper and
corrugated packaging prices after an extended
period of price decline; these price rises did 
not benefit the 2005/06 result significantly.
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax was
£53.4 million (2004/05: £73.9 million) and
adjusted earnings per share were 10.0 pence
(2004/05: 14.4 pence). Cash flow, before
dividends and acquisitions, was £63.2 million
(2004/05: £55.8 million). 
Actions to restructure our UK operations 
and streamline the portfolio accounted for 
the majority of the exceptional charge in
2005/06 of £42.4 million (2004/05: £9.6
million); the balance included the impairment
of an investment in an independent UK
packaging business.
The Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 5.8 pence which, together with the interim
dividend of 2.6 pence, maintains the total
dividend for the year at 8.4 pence.
During the year, we further strengthened the
Group’s management with the appointments of
Huub van Beijeren as Chief Operating Officer,
Packaging and Rob Vale as Chief Executive,
Spicers. Both these senior executives bring
valuable experience and expertise to the
Group’s operations.
As we announced in March, I will be retiring
from the Board at the end of 2006, having
reached the age of 70. During my seven years
as Chairman, we have improved the operational
performance of many of our businesses while
pursuing our strategy to change the shape of
the Group. We have expanded our downstream
Packaging activities through several major
developments. In Corrugated Packaging, 
we have grown profits substantially, both
organically and through acquisition. In Plastic
Packaging, we have built an international
position in liquid packaging and dispensing.
These moves have reduced the Group’s reliance
on the cyclical Paper business where we have
also enhanced our product mix, particularly
through the development of our plasterboard
liner business. In Office Products Wholesaling, 
we have established a significant presence 
for Spicers in continental Europe. These
achievements are the result of the continued
hard work and enthusiasm of our people, 
often in the face of difficult market conditions.
I thank them for their determination and 
the improvements they have made within 
their businesses.
I am handing over the role of Chairman to
Peter Johnson with effect from 1 January 2007.
Peter has made a major contribution to the
Board’s deliberations and decision-making as a
non-Executive Director. I am confident that he
will guide the Group wisely as it continues its
development. Jean-Paul Loison will be retiring
from his role as Divisional Chief Executive 
of DS Smith Kaysersberg and stepping down
from the Board at the end of September 2006. 
I thank him, on behalf of the Board, for his
major contribution to the development of our
continental European paper and corrugated
packaging business for which he has had
responsibility for many years.
We are achieving box price increases, but 
so far they have been insufficient to recover
fully the input cost rises incurred through the
supply chain. Based on current forward energy
market prices, we anticipate the increase in 
our underlying energy costs in 2006/07 will 
be somewhat higher than the £10 million 
that we indicated at the time of our 
trading update in April. In Office Products
Wholesaling, we expect our actions to result 
in improved performance in the second half 
of the year.
Antony Hichens Chairman
