 6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
2005/06 but the segment exited the year on 
a much improved trend. Spicers’ results were
£8.9 million down on the previous year. Its
continental operations performed well, turning
in higher profits compared with the previous
year, but the UK business saw a dramatic 
drop in profits, the result of both a substantial
reduction in sales margins, in the face of
stronger competition, and an increase in costs.
Cash performance across the Group was good,
highlighting the strong attention our managers
give to cash management.
Q – Given the challenging trading
environment, was 2005/06 a year
when the development of the
Group was put on hold? 
A – No. We have put a lot of emphasis on
raising short-term performance, principally
through a drive on cost recovery, through
increasing prices and raising productivity.
While we concentrated on accelerating our
profit improvement efforts, we continued with
our strategy to strengthen the Group. We sold
two non-core businesses: the John Dickinson
office products manufacturing business and 
the plastic film lamination operation, BSK. We
closed loss-making paper capacity that could
not be competitive in the long term and also
exited some small loss-making corrugated
packaging operations. In the UK, we captured
the expected benefits from our major
corrugated packaging acquisition in 2004 
and expanded plasterboard liner paper 
sales substantially. We grew our continental
European corrugated packaging business and
opened a new corrugating plant in Poland. We
finished the year with a much stronger order
book in Plastic Packaging, thanks to a number
of product development initiatives. In Spicers,
we grew our start-up businesses in Spain and
Italy strongly and acquired Timmermans, 
the leading office products wholesaler in the
Benelux region. These moves, which strengthen
our business base, should all contribute to 
the Group’s performance going forward.
Q – What were the key issues 
that you faced in Paper and
Corrugated Packaging and how
are you dealing with them?
A – During most of calendar year 2005, the
paper industry suffered from weak demand,
overcapacity – particularly in corrugated case
material (CCM), high waste paper prices and
In 2005/06, DS Smith faced a difficult trading
environment and results were well down on
the prior year. In an interview for the Annual
Report, Group Chief Executive, Tony Thorne,
sets out his responses to questions about the
events of the year and how the Group is
addressing the challenges it faces.
Q – In what has been a tough 
year for DS Smith, how do you 
see the trading performance of 
the different parts of the Group?
A – We report our results under four 
segment headings: UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging; Continental European Corrugated
Packaging; Plastic Packaging; and Office
Products Wholesaling – Spicers. Our two Paper
and Corrugated segments account for 56% 
of sales and 72% of the capital employed.
Adjusted operating profit in UK Paper and
Corrugated Packaging, where increased energy
costs of approximately £18 million were
incurred, was down by £11.1 million on the
prior year. Although underlying performance 
in this segment has improved, we must now
recover a greater proportion of the increase in
energy costs for us to earn acceptable returns.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
produced a good result: profits were broadly
unchanged from the previous year, despite
higher energy costs, and we continued our
growth in eastern Europe. In Plastic Packaging,
our profits started to fall away some 18 months
ago. Our results were down £2.1 million in
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
We accelerated our proﬁt
improvement efforts while
continuing with our strategy 
to strengthen the Group. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 7
we have competitive energy costs and exiting
those units where energy costs cannot be
recovered in their product markets.
Q – What level of proﬁts can you
expect to achieve in your UK Paper
and Corrugated Packaging segment?
A – Our immediate aim is to rebuild the
returns from our substantial existing market
position. To achieve this improvement we will
be focusing on: Severnside Recycling; those
paper mills which we believe can be long-term
competitive at the likely future level of energy
costs; our network of conventional box plants;
and a selected number of speciality businesses.
We have set ourselves a two-year objective 
to make significant progress towards this 
goal. The degree of progress will be, in part,
dependent on good operational performance
but particularly upon us achieving an
improvement in selling prices. In addition 
to the UK improvement plan, we are also
looking to develop our corrugated packaging
operations further on the continent, where we
achieved a 12.4% return on average capital
employed even in this past difficult year.
Q – Results in Plastic Packaging
have fallen substantially. What 
are your expectations and plans
for this segment now?
A – The Group has built good market positions
in its two principal sectors of liquid packaging
and dispensing and returnable transit packaging
(RTP). Profits in both sectors were eroded
during the second half of 2004/05 and in 
the first half of 2005/06 by a combination 
of increased competition and sharply higher
polymer costs; the latter we were unable 
to pass on in full to our customers. We have
further focused the division by selling one 
of its smaller businesses, BSK, and we are
currently concentrating on rebuilding profits
in both sectors towards the levels we achieved
previously. In liquid packaging and dispensing,
we have strengthened our product development
and sales functions and are winning new
business both in Europe and the USA. In 
RTP, we are rebuilding sales volumes. We 
have a number of promising new product
developments and are extending into eastern
Europe, where we are growing sales in tandem
with our Corrugated Packaging operations in
that region. Our immediate objective is to
maintain the improving profit trend established
in the second half of 2005/06.
of Jean-Paul Loison at the end of September
2006. Jean has been a key member of the 
team which has grown the sales and profits 
of our continental corrugated packaging
business in recent years.
Q – But haven’t there been price
rises in recent months? Aren’t you
beneﬁting from these?
A – The business environment improved during
the second half of our financial year; better
growth on the continent, the impact of CCM
capacity closures and the sustained cost
pressure within the industry, led to CCM price
rises during winter 2005/06. In DS Smith, we
achieved CCM price increases of approximately
20%. The Group is broadly balanced between
the quantity of CCM produced and the quantity
of CCM used in our box converting operations;
therefore, we need these higher CCM prices to
be passed through to our external customers by
means of higher box prices if the Group is to
derive any benefit. We are achieving box price
increases, but they are coming through slower
than we had anticipated and at a level that does
not fully recover the input cost increases; this
will have to be addressed in 2006/07.
Q – What are you doing to reduce
the effect of higher energy costs 
on your business?
A – The Group’s energy costs have increased
from £64 million in 2003/04 to £95 million in
2005/06, despite our consumption in 2005/06
being 6% less than in the previous year. Based
on forward energy market prices, we now
expect the increase in our underlying energy
costs in 2006/07 to be somewhat higher than the
£10 million that we indicated at the time of our
trading update in April. We are benefiting from
earlier investments made in on-site combined
heat and power generation plants at our two
largest paper mills and in a waste-to-energy
plant at our biggest mill. It is our smaller mills
that have been most severely affected by the
steep rise in costs. Our purchasing teams in the
UK and France are hedging part of their forward
energy requirements, but the rise in energy
prices has been so substantial and sustained
that we have only been able to mitigate a small
proportion of the increase. Our business plans
are based on the assumption that energy prices
will remain at higher than historical levels.
Consequently, in our energy-intensive paper
business we are concentrating investment where
greatly increased energy costs. As a result of 
the overcapacity, selling prices of CCM and
corrugated packaging (boxes) fell significantly
over a large part of the year. This downward
pricing trend, coupled with rising input costs,
led to industry profits being hit hard. The severe
industry conditions applied right across Europe
but were worst in the UK, where demand was
particularly weak and both the energy cost rises
and the energy price spikes were higher than 
on the continent; the latter were most marked
during the 2005/06 winter months.
Our response to these external pressures 
has been to concentrate on supporting our
stronger businesses, pushing for price increases,
improving the product mix and cutting costs. In
the UK, we achieved the expected £14.5 million
of synergies following the restructuring we
initiated after our 2004 corrugated packaging
acquisition. We now have a more competitive
conventional corrugated plant network and are
concentrating on running it hard. In our UK
Paper business, our CCM raw material supply
position was helped by the previous expansion
in 2004 of our Severnside Recycling operations,
and we further enriched the product mix by
growing sales of plasterboard liner. We are
seeking to mitigate the effect of the sustained
high energy costs as far as possible through a
broad programme of actions, but the prospect 
of energy cost levels continuing to be higher
than historical levels has led us to close paper
capacity at two of our most energy-intensive
mills. On the continent, our results benefited
from our concentration on higher added-value
products. Our speciality paper mill in France
had a good year, benefiting from recent
investment, and our expanded operations in
Poland showed good sales and profit growth. 
In the Ukraine, our associate business had
another good year and we are supporting 
its expansion plans.
Our programme of actions to raise returns 
in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
operations is being led by Huub van Beijeren,
whom we appointed as Chief Operating
Officer, Packaging in May 2006. Huub has
held a number of senior management positions
in manufacturing industry, most recently as 
a Main Board Director of British Vita Plc. In
continental Europe, Jean Lienhardt, currently
Finance Director of DS Smith Kaysersberg,
will take over as Chief Executive of that
division following the planned retirement  8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
that certain types of corporate activity may
result in us having to put additional funds 
into the scheme. 
Q – How do you see the outlook
for the Group?
A – We operate in markets that are expected 
to remain relatively tough. However, I am
confident that the actions we have already
taken and the strategy that we are pursuing
will enable the Group to make satisfactory
returns and to grow.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
confident that in the coming year we can 
start to rebuild profits in the UK and continue
progress on the continent.
Q – You are currently confronted
with a large number of major
issues across your various
activities. Wouldn’t it be better 
if the Group was more focused?
A – We recognise that Packaging manufacturing
and Office Products Wholesaling are quite
different types of activity, but I believe DS
Smith is able to add value to both these core
activities. Additionally, our spread of business
types helps the consistent generation of cash to
support the dividend. We have a clear strategy
for each of our segments and are confident we
can provide the resources required for their
development. We will streamline the portfolio
further while retaining the current broad shape
of the Group.
Q – Are you going to have to carry
out more restructuring?
A – Throughout the Group we will continue 
to look at our overhead cost base to ensure
that it is appropriate for the particular markets
we supply. In UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging, there are a small number of
operations where we are assessing their ability
to compete in the longer-term, taking into
account the trends in the market for their
products and the likely future cost of energy.
We also recognise the need to lower the
structural cost base of Spicers’ UK business as
part of the process of restoring sales margins.
Q – What is your dividend policy?
A – The Board recognises the importance of
the dividend to our investors. The Company
has an unblemished record of maintaining or
increasing its dividend and the Executive is
mindful of the dividend when setting its plans.
Q – How signiﬁcant is the issue 
of your pension scheme deﬁcit?
A – The pension scheme deficit, as at 
30 April 2006, was £35 million after tax 
and we believe we can manage this obligation
within the Group as a whole. We have worked
in conjunction with the Scheme Trustee to
minimise the future obligations by lowering
the costs of the scheme and by increasing
contributions to the scheme by both the
members and the Group. We are conscious
Q – Why have Spicers’ results
deteriorated so greatly and why
did this only become apparent 
late in the year?
A – The deterioration in Spicers’ result 
was all in the UK. We made good progress 
on the continent: we moved into the Benelux
region through acquisition and our existing
businesses in France, Germany, Spain and
Italy performed in line with our plans. Profits
at Spicers UK were markedly down as a result
of both a severe reduction in sales margin, 
in the face of tough competition, and higher
costs. The fall in margin was the result of a
number of factors. Selling prices were under
pressure from general price deflation in the
office products market. In addition, the
competitive environment in the wholesaling
sector has intensified, which has resulted 
in lower prices and led to higher levels of
retrospective rebates being paid to customers.
Higher costs were incurred in overcoming
service shortcomings at a limited number of
our UK distribution centres. Some of these
factors were apparent in the first half of the
year but the extent of the increased customer
rebates did not become fully apparent until
close to the year-end; the higher costs were
very much weighted towards the final months
of our financial year. We are giving significant
attention to getting the Spicers UK business
back to healthy profitability. Despite the poor
UK performance and the fact that two of the
continental businesses are still in a development
phase, Spicers as a whole generated a good
cash flow and its return on capital employed
exceeded the Group’s cost of capital. 
Q – What are you doing to rebuild
proﬁts at Spicers UK and what 
are your proﬁt expectations for
Spicers now?
A – The 2005/06 result represents a major set-
back and in the coming year we have to reverse
the trend. In February 2006, we appointed Rob
Vale as Chief Executive, Spicers, following the
retirement of his predecessor. Rob, who has
extensive experience in office products, has
carried out a comprehensive review of the
Spicers business. In the UK, he has made a
number of management changes, strengthened
the sales and operations functions, tightened 
the financial disciplines and accelerated the
programme to reduce the cost base. We are
