 4 www.dssmith.uk.com
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
Peter Johnson
Chairman
The Group made substantial 
progress in 2007/08 and 
faces the challenges of the 
year ahead from a strong base.
Peter Johnson
Chairman
DS Smith produced a strong set of results in 2007/08, with
proﬁts almost 50% up on the prior year. Proﬁts in Packaging
grew strongly, beneﬁting from the actions taken to increase
efﬁciency and recover signiﬁcantly higher input costs through
improved pricing. The rebuilding of proﬁts in Ofﬁce Products
Wholesaling, Spicers, is progressing well. The Board
continues to give close attention to the Group’s strategic
development. The acquisitions of New Thames Paper Mill
and Multigraphics, together with the investment programme
in our Ukrainian associate, Rubezhansk, support our plans
for longer-term growth. 
The Group’s adjusted proﬁt before tax was 49% higher at
£111.0 million and adjusted earnings per share advanced by
51% to 19.9 pence. Free cash ﬂow, before dividends and
net acquisitions, was £79.0 million (2006/07: £84.0 million,
which beneﬁted from the net cash contribution of 
£29.6 million for the sale of the Taplow site).
Across our Packaging activity, we expanded our capability 
in the value-added sectors of retail-ready packaging and
heavy-duty packaging. We extended our position in
promotional packaging, through organic growth and the
acquisition of Multigraphics, a business specialising in
printed display material. We continued to expand our fast-
growing recycling operation, Severnside, through enhanced
services to retailers and other generators of waste materials.
Our plastic returnable transit packaging business beneﬁted
from the introduction of new products. We strengthened our
presence in Packaging in central and eastern Europe; our
business in Poland continued to grow well and we
established new businesses in Slovakia and Bulgaria. 
In February 2008, we announced an investment of 
£104 million to acquire and convert the adjacent paper 
mill to our successful Kemsley operation. This will enable us
to supply high-quality lightweight corrugated case material,
helping our customers meet the growing demand to reduce
the weight of packaging.
In Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling, Spicers increased both
revenues and proﬁts. In recent years, we have developed
strong and successful positions in a number of continental
markets, and these continued to advance strongly. 
In line with its commitment to develop the Company 
to support good returns for shareholders, the Board is
proposing an increased ﬁnal dividend of 6.2 pence which,
together with the interim dividend of 2.6 pence, gives a total
dividend for the year of 8.8 pence (2006/07: 8.6 pence).
On 1 April 2008, Steve Dryden joined the Board as Group
Finance Director. Steve held the position of Finance Director
of Filtrona plc following its demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005,
having previously held other senior ﬁnance positions within
Bunzl plc. With his ﬁnancial capability and operational
experience, Steve is already making a strong impact on the
Group. Gavin Morris, the previous Group Finance Director,
stepped down from the Board by mutual agreement on 
1 April 2008. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Mr Morris for his contributions to the Company in recent
years and wish him future success.
On 29 January 2008, George Adams was appointed as 
a non-Executive Director. George, who was, until March
2008, Managing Director, European Development and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, UK Trade at Kingﬁsher Plc, brings 
to the Board wide international experience in distribution
and consumer-focused businesses. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our
colleagues across the world for their efforts and commitment,
without which our success would not be possible. In the 
year ahead, the Group faces a more challenging trading
environment. Our businesses are prepared for this and I 
am conﬁdent that our good market positions give us a 
strong base from which to compete. 
