 BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 7
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
We have taken action aimed at
underpinning the Group’s future
results in these challenging trading
conditions.
In 2008/09, the Group’s results were significantly affected by an external
environment that worsened as the year progressed. Adjusted operating
profit at £94.0 million was 21.4% lower than in the previous year. All
our business segments felt the impact of lower demand for their products
and services as a result of the general contraction in economic activity.
This weakening of demand gathered pace in the second half of our
financial year.
Profit before exceptional items and tax was £72.5 million (2007/08:
£111.0 million). As previously advised, the Group has incurred operating
profit exceptional charges in the year of £50.6 million (2007/08:
£1.9 million) of which £23.6 million are non-cash impairment charges,
principally related to our associate business in Ukraine and our packaging
operation in Turkey. After exceptional items, the Group made a post-tax
loss of £11.2 million. After exceptional cash costs the Group was cash
generative, reflecting our ongoing focus on cash management.
We have taken action aimed at underpinning the Group’s future results
in these challenging trading conditions. In December, we announced an
action programme focused on cost reduction and cash generation. This
programme is now well advanced and we are on course to achieve the
expected annual benefits of over £26 million per annum. The programme
has an up-front cash cost of circa £27 million, giving a payback period
of just over one year. The programme includes restructuring activities
designed to improve performance in currently underperforming products
and territories, together with actions to optimise performance in areas of
strength. We remain committed to exiting non-core businesses and smaller
businesses which consistently underperform.
Net capital expenditure in the year of £79.7 million (2007/08: £57.2 million)
reflected the costs of the conversion of New Thames Mill, acquired in
February 2008, which now forms part of our Kemsley paper manufacturing
operation. This expenditure is enabling the Group to compete strongly in
the growing market for lightweight packaging. In the coming year it is
anticipated that net capital expenditure will be held below £50 million.
The net deficit on our defined benefits pension schemes increased by
£83.5 million to £138.0 million, the principal component of which is
the UK defined benefit pension scheme. We are keeping the position
as regards the deficit of this scheme under review. It was closed to
new members in April 2005.
The Group’s adjusted return on average capital employed was lower in
2008/09 at 9.3% (2007/08: 12.9%). Our returns were affected by both
the general business environment and by the inherent cyclicality of parts of
our business, especially corrugated case material (CCM). Our target is
to exceed the Group’s estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital
of 11.8% over the industry cycle. The actions taken to reduce costs and
conserve cash, together with the ongoing development of our strong
market positions are aimed at achieving our targeted returns.
GROUP
• Adjusted profits down: a robust performance given the
economic conditions
• Strong cash flow
• Significant restructuring under way
• Full-year dividend reduced
PACKAGING
• Successful modification and start-up of our machine producing
lightweight CCM at Kemsley
• Weaker demand affected all our markets
• UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging results were impacted
by the fall in CCM prices
• Strong performance in continental Europe
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
• Slow-down in demand across Europe
• UK – reinforced position but margins under pressure
• Continental Europe – good performance, particularly in Germany
and Italy
ASSOCIATE
• Exceptional charge taken to impair fully the carrying value
of Rubezhansk
SUMMARY OF THE YEAR BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
8 www.dssmith.uk.com
The Group extended its financing facilities in August 2008 with the renewal
of its five-year syndicated revolving facility of £287.5 million (previously
£250 million). As a consequence, the weighted average maturity of the
Group’s committed borrowing facilities, as at 30 April 2009, was four
years and one month.
OPERATING OVERVIEW
Our two activities, Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling, are
managed through a decentralised structure.
PACKAGING
Across Europe, packaging demand fell progressively throughout the year.
The current level of market decline is at levels that are unprecedented in
recent times. Packaging demand in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG)
sector has held up better than in the industrial sectors and we have benefited
from our actions in recent years to focus on this area of the market.
Lower box demand has caused CCM prices to fall significantly. This is
putting some pressure on box prices.
The cost of our key raw material, waste paper, declined during the course
of the year, however, this is now rising as a result of renewed demand for
waste paper from the Far East, especially China. The current cost of waste
paper is high relative to CCM prices. Energy costs followed a similar
trend, declining during 2008/09 and now moving upwards.
Profits in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging operations declined
significantly, reflecting not just lower demand but also our high exposure
in the UK to movements in CCM prices. Results in our Continental European
Corrugated Packaging business were very good, with its performance
being assisted by its status as a net buyer of CCM and by the strength
of the euro.
Profits in Plastic Packaging declined as a result of lower demand. We have
a relatively large exposure to the industrial sector in this product area.
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In 2008/09, the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment, which
accounted for 37.3% of Group revenue and 54.0% of Group average
capital employed, reported a slight increase in revenue to £785.8 million
(2007/08: £753.2 million). Revenue benefited from a tolling contract with
the previous owner of the New Thames Mill. This revenue supported the
fixed costs of the site during the period when the mill was being converted
to produce lightweight CCM. Operating profit was lower at £36.5 million
(2007/08: £68.5 million), primarily due to reduced sales volumes, the
reduction in CCM prices and a weaker paper sales mix during the second
half of the year.
Severnside Recycling, which supplies the waste paper raw material for our
own recycled paper mills, experienced a small decline in profit on slightly
lower sales volumes; this was due to the reduced availability of waste as a
consequence of the slow-down in the economy. Sourcing of the additional
raw material required for the new lightweight CCM production capacity at
Kemsley went well. Severnside is continuing to expand its activities and
has secured a number of new retail customers.
Our UK paper business was significantly affected by the lower demand for
both CCM and plasterboard liner, the latter due to the sharp decline in the
construction sector. Margins were also put under pressure by the relatively
high cost of raw materials. In general, demand for paper to supply boxes
to the FMCG sector has performed better than that relating to the industrial
sector. We have been producing high-quality lightweight CCM at Kemsley
since January 2009. This project was completed on time and with a very
favourable customer reaction to the product’s performance.
Our UK box business produced a good result in a market that weakened
considerably in the second half of the year. Our emphasis on the FMCG
sector and higher value-added products assisted our performance
significantly, when compared to the UK corrugated industry as a whole.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
Despite lower volumes, sales revenue increased to £363.4 million
(2007/08: £346.0 million) reflecting the benefit of movements in
exchange rates. Operating profits increased to £30.4 million (2007/08:
£20.3 million), assisted by reduced CCM costs. In France, our corrugated
box business increased its operating profit, thanks to efficiency improvements
and our ongoing focus on higher value-added sectors of the market.
Despite poor market conditions, our Italian business performed well
primarily as a result of its strong position in the FMCG sector. Our Polish
operation performed very strongly as a result of continued sales growth
and a good product mix. Market conditions in Turkey remain particularly
depressed and we have taken an impairment charge of £5.0 million
against the assets of our Turkish business.
Profits at our Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, were significantly
affected by an exchange rate loss incurred as a result of the devaluation
of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US dollar. Rubezhansk has a US
dollar denominated loan of $87 million related to its investment project
to increase its paper capacity and develop a capability to produce
plasterboard liner. Currency movements on the loan resulted in an
exceptional loss of £5.1 million. Reflecting the issue with the loan, an
exceptional charge of £18.1 million has been taken to impair fully the
carrying value of our investment in Rubezhansk. There is no recourse to
the Group in relation to the loan. The cumulative net cash cost of our
investment in Rubezhansk has been less than £5 million, after taking into
account the acquisition investment less the dividends received. Rubezhansk
continues to trade profitably and to generate cash. We are continuing to
work with our partner and the lending banks to resolve the position in
relation to the loan.
Plastic Packaging
Including the positive impact of foreign exchange translation, revenue
in Plastic Packaging increased by 6.0% over the year to £236.9 million
(2007/08: £223.4 million) and adjusted operating profit fell to
£7.0 million (2007/08: £10.7 million). The returnable transit packaging
(RTP) sector experienced lower profitability due to reduced demand.
RTP volumes were impacted by the decline in economic activity across
all our major markets: beverage crates, automotive and construction.
The liquid packaging and dispensing (LP&D) sector saw increased volumes
in both taps and bags. Overall profits were ahead of the prior year but
prices remained under pressure. Our US business in this sector performed
well. In Europe, further restructuring has taken place, which, will reduce
the cost base during the current year. The benefits of this action will
augment the benefits that will be derived from the restructuring of our
German bag-in-box operations, which was completed in April 2009.
OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING
Overall revenue increased by 11.7% to £720.5 million (2007/08:
£644.9 million), reflecting some sales growth combined with the translation
benefits of the strong euro. The trading environment became progressively
more difficult as the year progressed; this resulted in de-stocking and
down-trading by both our customers and end-users. We have increased
sales, almost entirely in electronic office supplies (EOS), which is a
growing, but lower margin, sector of the market. The decline in the
non-EOS or traditional products market has continued. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 9
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
In Spicers UK, turnover increased but operating profit came under significant
and increasing pressure. This was due to much lower sales of traditional
products, as well as the highly competitive nature of this market. A number
of actions based on improving the sales mix and lowering costs are under
way to reverse this downward trend.
In the continental European businesses, which account for just over 50%
of Spicers’ total revenue, profit was slightly ahead of the previous year,
assisted by the strength of the euro. Difficult trading conditions for our
more established businesses depressed both revenue and operating profit,
but results were good relative to their markets. Our developing German
and Italian operations continued to grow both their revenue and profit.
George Adams, who has taken up the role of Chief Executive of Spicers
in June 2009, brings with him a wealth of relevant business experience
both in the UK and Europe as well as a good understanding of the
Spicers business.
The current year will be testing, especially in the UK, but Spicers is well
placed to take advantage of improved economic circumstances, due to
its strong market positions.
STRATEGY
The Group has two distinct activities, Packaging and Office Products
Wholesaling. The Board regularly reviews the structure of the Group.
Each activity has a well-established strategy. The key elements of these
strategies are described in detail on pages 10 and 11. We believe that
progress in the implementation of these strategies has contributed to our
robust performance in 2008/09. In addition, in the current difficult economic
environment, we believe our strategies have established a strong base
from which we can develop further when activity levels improve.
We will continue to drive for progress in the implementation of our
strategies, but given the current outlook for the trading environment,
the pace of development is likely to be slower.
OUR PEOPLE
The employees of DS Smith have shown themselves to be not only tough
but also resilient, in the face of the most difficult trading conditions seen
in a generation. I feel confident in saying that because of their dedication
and resourcefulness we have performed at levels above those which
might otherwise have been expected. They have my thanks.
OUTLOOK
Economic indicators continue to show a global economy in recession.
The timing of any recovery remains uncertain. Although it is early in our
financial year, trading is in line with our expectations. Our consistent
strategy to build leadership positions is standing us in good stead in the
downturn and we are confident that this, combined with the continued
implementation of our action programme, will underpin our results. We
expect to benefit strongly from the upturn when it arrives.
TONY THORNE
Group Chief Executive
