 BUSINESS REVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6 www.dssmith.uk.com
I am confident the Group will
continue to manage the impact
of the difficult trading environment.
In common with most manufacturing businesses, DS Smith saw its markets
weaken during the course of our financial year. The pace of decline
accelerated during the second half of the year, when we also faced growing
pressure on prices. The demand for packaging materials for industrial
customers and for plasterboard liner was especially affected. Reduced paper
demand led to significant reductions in corrugated case material (CCM)
prices on the continent, which in turn led to lower CCM prices in the UK.
The impact of these exceptionally difficult market conditions was mitigated by
the continued implementation of the Group’s strategy and management’s
decisive response to implement an action programme to reduce costs and
conserve cash.
As set out in the Strategy section on pages 10 and 11, management
has refocused the business over recent years. The Group is now a net
consumer of CCM. The major markets for its corrugated boxes are for the
fast-moving consumer goods sector, where it has established a leading
position in the supply of retail-ready packaging. It has focused on
innovation in both products and services, in particular, linked to its
expertise in recycling and solving customers’ packaging problems.
As a result, although adjusted operating profit of £94.0 million (2007/08:
£119.6 million) and adjusted earnings per share of 12.6 pence
(2007/08: 19.9 pence) were down on the previous record year, these
results reflect a robust performance in such difficult market conditions.
Management reacted swiftly to the changing market. Early in the financial
year they renegotiated the Group’s major borrowing facilities, extending
repayment terms at limited cost. In December, they announced a
comprehensive programme to reduce costs and conserve cash that will
result in savings of over £26 million a year. The programme to control
working capital was further strengthened during the year such that, despite
the capital expenditure to convert the newly acquired paper machine at
Kemsley, and the cash costs arising from the action programme, the Group
remained cash generative. Free cash flow, before dividends, exceptional
items and net acquisitions, was £59.9 million (2007/08: £84.8 million).
As part of this series of actions designed to ensure the Group remains
financially sound through this period of economic uncertainty, the Board
has decided to recommend a reduced final dividend for 2008/09 of
1.8 pence per share (2007/08: 6.2 pence) which, together with the
interim dividend of 2.6 pence, would give a total dividend for the year
of 4.4 pence (2007/08: 8.8 pence). The Board recognises the importance
of dividends to shareholders and remains committed to the payment of
dividends that reflect the sustainable earnings and cash generation of
the Group over the cycle.
The financial and operational performance of the Group during the year
are set out fully in the following reports, together with an assessment of the
risks facing the Group, its performance on environmental and other matters
of corporate responsibility and reports on the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. During these difficult times, the Board has maintained a strong
focus on identifying and managing risks, ensuring the Group’s financial
position remains strong and on ensuring it is well placed, financially and
operationally, to benefit from recovery in our markets, whenever that might
happen. An increased focus was placed on ensuring the business strategy
was clear and being implemented as well as on shorter-term financial
strength. The strategies for our businesses are set out in this report. The
Board continues to keep the composition of the Group under review.
The Nomination Committee reviews longer-term succession plans both
for the senior Executive team and for the Board. There were no Board
changes during 2008/09. However, with effect from 16 June 2009,
George Adams was appointed Divisional Chief Executive of Spicers,
our Office Products Wholesaling division, and as a result stood down
from the DS Smith Plc Board when his appointment was confirmed on
26 May 2009. George had served as a most effective Non-Executive
Director of DS Smith from 29 January 2008 and I would like to thank
him for his contribution.
Jonathan Nicholls will join the Board of DS Smith Plc as a Non-Executive
Director with effect from 1 December 2009. Jonathan has considerable
Board level experience, including having been Group Finance Director of
Hanson Plc and, most recently, Group Finance Director of Old Mutual Plc
and we look forward to his contribution.
Richard Marton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009 having
served DS Smith Plc as a Non-Executive Director since 13 March 2000.
Richard has made an outstanding contribution during his time in office
and I thank him for his sound advice and wise counsel.
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our colleagues across the world for
their ongoing efforts and commitment. The trading environment in the year
ahead is likely to prove at least as challenging as was the financial year
being reported on. I am confident the Group will continue to manage
the impact of this difficult environment, benefiting from its strong market
positions and the results of its action programme.
PETER JOHNSON
Chairman
