 I am pleased to announce that in 2009/10
adjusted operating profit at £94.0 million
matched that of the previous year. All our business
segments felt the impact of lower demand for their
products and services as a result of the general
contraction in economic activity, but all were able
to mitigate this by improving efficiency. The Group
remained highly cash generative, reflecting our
ongoing focus on cash management. year-end 
net debt fell to £239.5 million (30 April 2009:
£291.5 million) providing a robust financial 
base for the Group. 
Profit before exceptional items and tax was 
£68.3 million (2008/09: £72.5 million). 
As previously advised, the Group incurred
exceptional charges in the year of £13.3 million
(2008/09: £55.7 million), of which £10.2 million
were non-cash impairment charges, principally
related to our paper and packaging operation 
in Turkey, the sale of which was announced after
the year end. 
Capital expenditure in the year of £52.6 million
(2008/09: £87.4 million) reflected the re-phasing
of the capital programme to match the change in
the economic environment and the completion of
capital expenditure on the conversion of a paper
machine in 2008/09. The Group continued to
invest for its future development: around two-thirds
of our expenditure was targeted at growth 
and maintaining and strengthening our market
positions, focusing on those areas that provide 
the most attractive returns.
The Group’s adjusted return on average capital
employed increased in 2009/10 to 9.7%
(2008/09: 9.3%), due to a lower capital base.
This compares to the Group’s estimated pre-tax
weighted average cost of capital of 11.8%. 
Looking ahead, we are undertaking a review of
our business portfolio to identify how long-term
value can best be delivered to shareholders. 
Our objective is to create a growing business that
is more focused, producing higher margins and
returns, with less cyclicality. This work is now
under way and is centred on five major themes:
• Achieving higher margins through improving 
the mix of business towards products with a
higher value-added component and less
commoditisation;
• Differentiating our offering through product
innovation and customer service;
• Raising efficiency through process design,
organisation structure and scale of our
operations;
• Building on people, with focus on personal
performance and development supported 
by an enabling culture; and
• managing carefully any implementation risks.
The results of this work will be completed later 
in 2010.
OPERATING REVIEW
Our two activities, Packaging and Office 
Products Wholesaling, are managed through 
a decentralised structure.
PACKAGING
Across Europe, demand for corrugated packaging
fell progressively through most of calendar 2009,
but began to recover modestly late in the year.
This recovery continued in the first quarter of
2010. In the fourth quarter of 2009, demand 
was up 2.9% compared with the same period in
2008, but was still 5.7% below the comparable
period for 2007. Throughout 2009, packaging
demand in the fast-moving consumer goods
(FmCG) sector held up better than in the industrial
sectors. DS Smith has benefited from actions taken
in recent years to focus on the FmCG area of the
market, which now accounts for around two-thirds
of our Packaging revenue.
In the first half of the financial year, lower demand
for corrugated packaging caused box prices to
soften, and resulted in reduced demand and
falling prices for corrugated case material (CCm)
– the paper that is used to manufacture boxes. 
In the second half of the year, the cost of waste
paper – our key raw material – rose strongly,
causing CCm prices and, in turn, box prices 
to increase. 
Profits in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
operations almost matched those of the previous
year, helped by the cost reductions achieved
through the action programme announced in
December 2008 and better productivity.
Results in our Continental European Corrugated
Packaging segment were down; gains in FmCG
packaging were more than offset by the
continuing low activity levels in the industrial
packaging sector and the impact of higher 
CCm prices.
Profits in Plastic Packaging improved markedly 
as a result of restructuring undertaken during
2008/09, implementation of the action
programme to cut costs and growth in sales 
of higher margin products. 
UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In 2009/10, the UK Paper and Corrugated
Packaging segment, which accounted for 36% 
of Group revenue and 55% of Group average
capital employed, reported a 4.5% decrease 
in revenue to £750.2 million (2008/09: 
£785.8 million). This reduction in revenue was
due to lower CCm and box prices, the effects of
which were partly offset by revenue from a full
year’s sales of lightweight CCm produced on 
the converted paper machine at Kemsley.
Operating profit was slightly down at 
£35.4 million (2008/09: £36.5 million),
primarily due to reduced box sales mitigated 
by the restructured, lower cost base.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’ s Review
16 www.dssmith.uk.com
“The Group is well
positioned to take 
full advantage of the
improving economy.” Our UK business is vertically integrated, from
collection of waste paper to supply the recycled
paper mills, through to the design and supply of
corrugated packaging.
Severnside Recycling, which recovers waste 
paper as the raw material for use in our paper
mills, continued to make progress, collecting an
increased quantity of paper and offering more
added-value services to a number of new 
retail customers.
Our UK paper business was significantly affected
by the impacts of lower demand and pricing for
CCm during 2009/10. margins were further put
under pressure by the rising cost of raw materials,
especially in the second half of the year. The high-
quality, lightweight CCm which we have been
producing at Kemsley since early 2009 continues
to be favourably received by customers.
Our UK corrugated packaging business produced
a good result and grew its market share on a
platform of service and innovation. Our emphasis
on the FmCG sector and higher value-added
products assisted our performance significantly,
when compared to the UK corrugated industry 
as a whole. Key investments have been made to
increase our capability to support the growth in
demand for shelf-ready packaging, improve print
quality innovation and continue the roll out of
high-performance, lighter-weight boxes.
As we enter 2010/11, we are experiencing
modest improvements in demand offset by
increasing waste paper input costs and CCm
prices. We will build on the strong market
positions achieved to date and are well 
positioned for growth. 
Continental European Corrugated Packaging
Despite an increase in sales volumes, driven 
by the encouraging performance in the final
quarter of the year, revenue was down 2.2% to
£355.4 million (2008/09: £363.4 million) due 
to lower selling prices. Operating profit decreased
to £22.9 million (2008/09: £30.4 million), as a
result of increasing CCm costs, the effect of which
was partially offset by a significant reduction in
conversion costs.
In France, our corrugated box business showed a
2% increase in sales volume, despite a flat market,
as a result of its focus on the resilient and growing
FmCG market. Despite difficult market conditions,
our Italian business performed well primarily as 
a result of its strong position in the FmCG sector.
Our Polish operation continued to focus on 
higher added-value products, gaining share in 
a broadly static market. market conditions in
Turkey remained difficult and after the year 
end, we announced the sale of the business for
£4.7 million. 
Rubezhansk, our Ukrainian associate business
continues to trade profitably and to generate 
cash. This is a substantial, vertically-integrated
packaging business with a market-leading
position, supplying the FmCG customers
principally in Ukraine and Russia. The business
has excellent long-term potential. As noted in the
Financial Review, we are continuing to work with
our partner and the lending banks to resolve the
position in relation to the external financing of 
this business.
In 2010/11, we expect margins to come under
increased pressure from higher input costs, but 
we expect to benefit from higher sales volumes.
Our priorities are to maintain good levels of
profitability through increased selling prices,
volume growth and control of costs. 
Plastic Packaging
Revenue in Plastic Packaging decreased 
by 2.4% over the year to £231.3 million
(2008/09: £236.9 million) due to lower selling
prices, following reduction in polymer costs, 
and our exit from a lower margin packaging
management contract in continental Europe.
Adjusted operating profit more than doubled 
to £15.5 million (2008/09: £7.0 million) as a
result of lower costs following the prior year’s
restructuring actions and increased sales into 
new market segments. 
Results in liquid packaging and dispensing
benefited from higher sales, particularly into new
markets in the USA. Results in Europe increased
substantially, reflecting the restructuring and cost
cutting previously mentioned, as well as higher
sales of existing products into new markets and
our focus on improving the business mix. 
Demand in the returnable transit packaging sector
continued to be weak. Sales to the construction
and automotive sectors, which fell sharply 
during 2008/09, have seen no real recovery.
Our beverage crate business, which was
significantly affected by the deferral of crate
replacement programmes, has seen a modest
increase in demand as customers have begun 
to purchase some replacements. This business
increased its profits in the year as a result of 
active management of conversion costs, low 
raw material prices in the first half of the year 
and development of products in all of the
constituent businesses.
In January 2010, we completed the sale of Demes
Logistics, a small plastics logistics business based
mainly in Germany. The business had gross assets
of €11.2 million.
In 2010/11, we expect to build further on 
the strong recovery in liquid packaging and
dispensing and to see growth in demand for 
RTP’s products. 
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 17
OFFICE PRODUCTS WhOLESALING
Overall revenue increased by 1.8% to 
£733.7 million (2008/09: £720.5 million),
reflecting lower volumes which were more than
offset by the effect of the depreciation of sterling
against the euro. The trading environment was
better than expected given the substantial
economic slow-down in the major markets we
serve. An increase in sales of electronic office
supplies (EOS), was partly offset by lower sales 
in traditional office products.
In Spicers UK, revenue fell marginally. Non-EOS
sales declined for the first three quarters of the
year then began to recover in the final quarter.
EOS sales grew modestly. Operating profit was
higher than last year, benefiting from actions to 
cut costs and improve the sales mix.
In the continental European businesses, which
account for just over half of Spicers’ total revenue,
profit was flat. Operating results in France,
Germany and the Benelux region matched or
exceeded last year and Italy put in a strong
performance. Trading was difficult in Ireland and
Spain where, in both countries, the economic
downturn has had a significant effect.
In 2010/11, we will focus on improving our
overall sales, primarily in traditional office
products, and on tight cost control. We believe
that Spicers is well placed to take advantage of
improving economic conditions, due to its strong
market positions.
OUR PEOPLE
I have been hugely impressed by the dedication
and commitment of the employees of DS Smith
during my early visits to the businesses. It is clear
that we have skilful, enthusiastic and creative
people who have worked hard to support the
Company through recent difficult times. I thank
them for all they have done to date and look
forward to working with them in the future.
OUTLOOK
Trading in the current financial year has started
well and is in line with our expectations. We are
experiencing increasing sales volumes due to the
continuing recovery in market conditions. We are
also benefiting from the success of our service and
product offering.
MILES ROBERTS
Group Chief Executive
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
