 In last year’s annual report I stated that the work
done to refocus the business over recent years
would make it more resilient. Our results for 
the year are testament to that. The fast-moving
consumer goods sector, which is our major 
market for retail-ready packaging, weathered the
downturn better than other sectors. The focus on
innovation in both products and services, and 
our expertise in recycling and solving customers’
packaging problems allowed us to make
significant progress.
Adjusted operating profit of £94.0 million 
matched the previous year and adjusted 
earnings per share advanced 2.4% to 
12.9 pence (2008/09: 12.6 pence). 
The Board has decided to recommend a final
dividend for 2009/10 of 3.1 pence per share
(2008/09: 1.8 pence) which, together with the
interim dividend of 1.5 pence, gives a total
dividend for the year of 4.6 pence (2008/09: 
4.4 pence). The Board recognises the importance
of dividends to shareholders and remains
committed to the payment of dividends that reflect
the sustainable earnings and cash generation of
the Group over the cycle. Future dividend policy 
is under review as part of the Group Chief
Executive’s review of strategy.
The financial and operational performance of 
the Group during the year is set out fully in the
following reports, together with an assessment 
of the risks facing the Group, its performance on
environmental and other matters of corporate
responsibility and reports on the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. The Board has
continued to maintain a strong focus on identifying
and managing risks, ensuring the Group’s 
financial position remains strong and on making
sure that it is well placed, financially and
operationally, to benefit from recovery in our
markets. An increased focus has been placed on
the business strategy and the Group’s financial
strength. The composition of the Group is being
considered by the Group Chief Executive as part
of his review. 
Parts of our business operate in attractive 
markets with long-term growth and attractive
margin potential. The challenge for the Group 
is to take full advantage of the opportunities open
to it and to deliver strong growth in shareholder
value. The Board will support the Group Chief 
Executive as he develops his plans for this in 
the coming months.
As we announced in November 2009, Tony
Thorne retired from the Board on 4 may 2010
and miles Roberts took over the role of Group
Chief Executive.
On behalf of the Board and his colleagues, 
I would like to thank Tony for his strong 
leadership of the Group over the last nine years.
The Group that he leaves behind is far better
placed and balanced than the one he joined, 
with strengthened potential. The growth in the
packaging and recycling businesses and the
development of leading positions in retail-ready
and high quality design packaging have created
a formidable position in UK packaging.
miles Roberts joins us from mcBride plc where he
led a programme to deliver significant growth and
improved profitability. In addition to this record, 
he brings considerable international experience as
well as a thorough understanding of manufacturing
and DS Smith’s packaging markets.
I am also pleased to confirm that Gareth Davis
joined our Board as a non-Executive Director on 
1 June 2010. Gareth has recently stepped down
from the role of Chief Executive of Imperial
Tobacco PLC, a Group which he led to great
success following the demerger of the company
from h anson Plc in 1996. h e has served as a
non-Executive Director since 2003 and Senior
Independent Director since 2004 of Wolseley plc.
h e brings enormous relevant experience to our
affairs. h e will take over as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee from July 2010.
Jonathan Nicholls joined the Board in December
2009 and his experience as Finance Director of
two FTSE 100 companies, h anson Plc and Old
mutual Plc, has been of great value. h e will take
over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 
July 2010.
Chairman’ s Statement
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 15
“The Group delivered a
robust performance in
2009/10 and under the
leadership of its new
Group Chief Executive 
is well placed to 
resume growth.”
Bob Beeston, who has served as a non-Executive
Director with great distinction since December
2000, will step down from the Board at the end 
of 2010, once the new Directors have their feet
firmly under the table. Bob has been an outstanding
contributor to our affairs and I would like to thank
him for his ceaseless challenge and support. 
Chris Bunker has already succeeded Bob as 
Senior Independent Director.
On behalf of the Board, I thank all our colleagues
across the world for their ongoing efforts and
commitment, particularly through these tough
times. Economic activity has improved, but the
pace of recovery remains uncertain. Actions taken
by management to date have positioned us well to
take advantage of improving economic conditions
and I am confident that further progress will be
made in the coming year.
PETER JOHNSON
Chairman
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
