 16 www.dssmith.uk.com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011
Operating Review
Group Chief Executive’s Statement
Overview 
In the year to 30 April 2011 DS Smith grew revenue by 19.5%
(10.0% excluding Otor, the French corrugated packaging business
acquired on 1 September 2010), improved adjusted operating
profit margin by 80bps to 5.5% (2009/10: 4.7%) and increased
adjusted operating profit by 38.7% (20.0% excluding Otor) 
to £136.1 million (2009/10: £98.1 million). 
The Group increased its market share in its key markets and recovered
rising input costs in line with our expectations. This progress was
achieved by focusing on what matters to our customers – service,
quality and innovation – and relentless attention to pricing for input
cost recovery.
This has also been a year of significant change for the business,
with initiation of our new strategy – to become the leading supplier
of recycled packaging for consumer goods – in December 2010
and the acquisition of Otor. With this acquisition we are now the
leading supplier of corrugated packaging for fast moving consumer
goods (FMCG) customers in France. Otor has also brought with it a
number of patented innovations that are now being offered to our
customers throughout the Group. 
The Group was strongly cash generative in the year, with free 
cash flow of £100.7 million (2009/10: £76.8 million). Net debt
increased by £111.5 million to £351.0 million (2009/10: 
£239.5 million) due to expenditure of £203.2 million to purchase
Otor (including acquired net debt), partly offset by strong operating
cash flow and funds raised through the issue of equity in July 2010.
I am very pleased to report that the Group’s adjusted return on
average capital employed (ROACE) increased substantially in
2010/11 to 12.7% (2009/10: 10.1%), exceeding the Group’s
estimated cost of capital of around 11.0% on the current business
mix. This reflects the improved profitability of the Group and a
significant focus on capital management. Divisional management
now have their remuneration aligned to return on capital measures
as well as to profit.
Delivery against our strategic goals
In December 2010 I set out our strategy to become the leading
supplier of recycled packaging for consumer goods, and the
resultant expected improvement in our medium-term financial
performance. I am pleased that these results demonstrate an
encouraging first step towards our financial goals. I also said that
we would deliver our strategy through focusing on improving our
business mix, differentiating ourselves from our competition, and 
at the same time concentrating on our efficiency, culture and
implementation risk management. 
Cost and carbon savings 
for Kellogg’s Nutri-Grain 
R-Flute
®
has helped to achieve consumer impact
and significant savings in cost and carbon for
Kellogg’s Nutri-Grain range. A previous pack
was reported to look ‘washed out’. The new 
R-Flute
®
pack stands out on the shelf, and is 
easy to find back-of-store, helping to drive on-
shelf availability. The change to R-Flute® means
that Kellogg’s receives 911 fewer pallets of
inbound packaging, equating to a massive 
24 full loads per year. 
24 full lorry loads 
saved per year
51271_p16-22_vAW.qxp_Layout 1  04/07/2011  22:26  Page 16 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING
BUSINESS 
REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTICE 
OF MEETING
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.dssmith.uk.com 17
BUSINESS 
REVIEW GOVERNANCE
NOTICE 
OF MEETING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
I have been pleased with the progress we have already made on
implementing our strategy over the year.
With regard to business mix, the biggest change has been the
acquisition of Otor, which transforms our focus on FMCG customers in
continental Europe and raises the proportion of revenue from FMCG
customers across the packaging business. Our recycling business,
another key area for growth, has made considerable progress
developing its activities organically in the UK and undertaking
preparatory work in Central and Eastern Europe, in advance of
further expansion. Our capital expenditure has been applied in line
with our strategy, with 80% of our net capital expenditure spent in
either packaging or recycling.
We have also made progress in reducing our involvement in non-
integrated paper manufacturing, which is also part of our strategy 
to change our business mix. As previously announced, we plan to
reduce our net capacity by c. 250 thousand tonnes per annum. 
We are making progress on this objective and have announced 
the commencement of consultation regarding the proposal that we 
close a UK paper mill and make an investment in our Kemsley Mill,
with capital expenditure in line with depreciation, to make high
performance papers to support our growing recycled retail-ready
packaging offering across Europe. Together, these proposed changes
would reduce output by approximately 95 thousand tonnes per
annum whilst maintaining Kemsley’s position as one of the most
efficient production sites across Europe, offering leading standards
of service, quality and innovation.
The Group has focused on its customer differentiation over the year,
with customer service, as measured by the proportion of orders
delivered on-time, in-full (OTIF), now a key performance measure for
all parts of the Group. While many parts of the Group were already
providing excellent service, considerable focus has been given to
this area resulting in our Group average OTIF now standing at 96%,
up 2% from 94% at the end of the prior year. We believe that this
focus on customer service has been instrumental in growing our
packaging volumes ahead of growth in the market as a whole.
The Otor acquisition has broadened the range of innovative designs
we are able to offer as Otor brings with it 50 patents and 10 licences.
Our UK business has its own innovative packaging products and
materials, most notably R-Flute®, a thinner corrugated board ideal
for retail-ready packaging. We have begun the work to integrate our
innovation know-how to leverage it across the Group. Corrugating
equipment to manufacture R-Flute® is now being rolled out in
continental Europe. 
In terms of efficiency, we are on target to deliver the planned cost
savings, as previously announced, totalling £20 million (£10 million
per annum by 30 April 2014, from improving the effectiveness of
the UK operations and £10 million per annum by 30 April 2012
from co-ordinated procurement). In the current year 2011/12 we
expect to see a £3 million benefit from UK efficiency savings 
and a £6 million benefit from procurement (split equally between
operational expenditure and capital expenditure). We are also 
now able to increase our estimate of the cost savings we expect
from the Otor acquisition from our original estimate of €9.3 million
to €13.0 million (currently equivalent to £11.6 million), and we
expect those savings to be delivered by April 2013, one year 
earlier than originally expected. With regard to capital efficiency, 
as at 30 April 2011 we had achieved an improvement in working
capital of c. £24 million. 
Our actions to reduce cyclicality in our profits and margins, through
changes to our pricing review periods within customer contracts,
have progressed to plan. The average price renewal period in the
UK and continental Europe, excluding Otor, is now at four months,
down from six months, meaning that we can recover rising input
costs more promptly. We expect to make continued progress on 
this as contracts come up for renewal.
Whilst I am pleased with the progress to date, I believe that there 
is substantially further to go to realise the full potential of the Group.
Over the coming year, I plan to focus further on business mix –
building the recycled packaging business in our target regions 
and reducing non-core activities. The actions to improve our
differentiation through service, quality and innovation are now
underway and we continue to pay significant attention to pricing 
to recover rising costs. On efficiency, engaging our people and risk
management, I have been very encouraged by the first steps and
expect further ideas for improvement to arise as our management
teams develop their work in these areas.
Our people
DS Smith employs dedicated, skilled, hard-working people and 
I have been delighted with the effort and commitment shown in 
the past year by our employees. We have put in place this year 
a number of programmes to support the development of our people 
to fulfil their potential, such as appraisal and talent management
programmes. We have undertaken an extensive two-way
communication programme to explain our goals and to listen to 
the issues faced by our employees in delivering to our customers.
The feedback from this has been very constructive. I would like 
to thank them all for their efforts.
Outlook
The strong momentum in the business seen at the end of the prior
year is continuing into the current financial year, where trading has
started very well. The Group expects to continue to make further
significant progress towards its financial objectives in the financial
year 2011/12, with our confidence in the future reflected in the
decision of the Board to increase the dividend by 41.3%. This
progress is driven by the successful integration of Otor combined
with the continued implementation of our proven strategy.
51271_p16-22_vAW.qxp_Layout 1  04/07/2011  22:26  Page 17
