 www.dssmith.uk.com 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report that 2011/12 has 
been a year of transformation for DS Smith, 
during which the Group has made great  
strides towards its strategic aim of becoming  
the leading supplier of recycled packaging  
for consumer goods. This has been achieved 
through a combination of acquisition and 
disposal, while at the same time keeping a  
keen eye on the underlying business, which  
has continued to perform very well despite the 
current economic difﬁculties throughout Europe. 
DS Smith has gone through a period of great 
change in the last 12 months with more 
changes still to come. Managing this change 
has been a fundamental part of the good 
governance of this Company. Meeting the 
ever-changing demands of the business 
environment, wider social and political 
inﬂuences whilst at the same time ensuring  
that our various stakeholders – shareholders, 
employees, customers and the environment – 
are all given equal consideration, has been  
a challenge that your Board has taken very 
seriously. Ensuring that DS Smith has been  
able to rise to these demands as a cohesive 
Group has been at the heart of all your  
Board’s decisions.
201 1/12 has been a year  
of transformation for DS Smith
Corporate developments and strategy
In December 2010 we set out a clear strategy 
to investors, accompanied by key performance 
indicators and the actions we would seek to 
take. A key one of those was to streamline the 
Group, and I am pleased to report that in July 
2011 we announced the agreement we had 
reached to dispose of our Ofﬁce Products 
Wholesaling division. While a proﬁtable 
business, this had no synergy with the rest  
of the Group and the Board believes that  
the capital realised will deliver a better return 
invested in our core business. Following the 
customary competition authority clearance 
process, that disposal completed in December 
2011. We also sold a small paper mill in 
September 2011, delivering against another 
objective to reduce our exposure to non-
integrated paper manufacturing. 
In January 2012, after six months of exclusive 
negotiation and due diligence, we announced 
our proposal to acquire SCA Packaging 
(excluding its kraftliner assets), the second 
largest corrugated packaging group in Europe. 
The transaction approximately doubles the  
size of the Group and substantially extends  
the DS Smith footprint across Europe.  
Gareth Davis DS Smith Plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3
Business Review
Dividend
The Board considers the dividend to be  
an important component of shareholder  
returns. In December 2010 we set out our 
dividend policy for a progressive dividend 
where dividend cover is expected to average  
between 2.0 and 2.5 times through the cycle. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends  
a ﬁnal dividend for 2011/12 of 4.0 pence 
per share which, together with the interim 
dividend of 1.9 pence per share gives a  
total dividend for the year of 5.9 pence per  
share (2010/11: 4.5 pence per share). This 
represents an increase of 31 per cent over the 
prior year and a cover of 2.2 times in relation 
to adjusted earnings per share, in line with  
our policy.
Board changes
In October 2011 Peter Johnson chose to  
stand down temporarily from his responsibilities 
as Chairman, due to personal circumstances,  
and in January 2012 he decided to resign  
from the Board. Peter joined the Board as a 
non-Executive Director in 1999 and became 
Chairman in 2007. I would like to thank Peter 
for his immeasurable contribution, leading the 
business through a period of transition over that 
time and leaving the business in an excellent 
position to grow and further develop. I am 
delighted to have the honour of chairing  
DS Smith Plc and look forward to continuing  
this work. We are committed to ensuring  
our Board continues to have both relevant 
experience and appropriate diversity and, 
although we believe it difﬁcult to set targets or 
timescales for the percentage of women, or any 
other group, on our Board, we are optimistic 
that the targets for board composition set out  
in the Davies recommendations can be met.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank all our colleagues throughout DS Smith  
for the substantial efforts made by everyone  
to deliver these results this year. In a period  
of strategic change, it has been their daily  
focus on delivering great service, quality and 
innovation to our customers, which has enabled 
the delivery of such signiﬁcant progress. I would 
also like to extend a warm welcome to our  
new colleagues from SCA Packaging, who  
will be joining the Group from the end of June. 
Looking to 2012/13, we are ready to start 
integrating our new business, and I have every 
conﬁdence that the success achieved to date 
will continue. 
Gareth Davis, Chairman 
Due to the size of the transaction, and to 
maintain an acceptable level of debt, we 
announced at the same time our intention to 
raise approximately £466 million by way of a 
rights issue. I was delighted by the reaction of 
our shareholders, who provided support and 
leadership, with 98.6 per cent of shareholders 
choosing to take up their right to buy additional 
DS Smith shares in the offer. A huge amount of 
work has followed, to prepare for the point 
when we take ownership, expected to be  
30 June 2012. I am pleased to say that we 
have a clear plan for integrating the businesses, 
starting from day one. 
Trading performance
Throughout this period of strategic change,  
the underlying businesses have proved 
themselves resilient despite substantial economic 
headwinds, delivering a 28 per cent increase 
in operating proﬁt (20 per cent excluding the 
impact of acquisitions and foreign exchange). 
The performance from our European business, 
including the Otor business in France, acquired 
in September 2010, has been particularly 
good, giving conﬁdence in the prospects  
for the SCA Packaging acquisition. Return  
on average capital employed increased  
310 basis points to 14.6 per cent. Earnings 
per share from continuing operations increased 
28 per cent in the period to 12.8 pence 
(2010/11: 10.0 pence).
* continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional items
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
09 10 11 12
Earnings per share*
12.8p
2011: 10.0p
09 10 11 12
Total dividend per share
5.9p
2011: 4.5p
0.0
1.5
3.0
4.5
6.0
