 www.dssmith.uk.com 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
4
Overview
2011/12 has been a year of transformation 
for DS Smith, in which we took several 
signiﬁcant steps along the path to our strategic 
goal: to become the leading supplier of 
recycled packaging for consumer goods,  
with improved medium-term ﬁnancial 
performance. We are doing this by growing 
our packaging and recycling businesses, 
reducing our exposure to paper manufacturing 
and disposing of non-core businesses.
We delivered great improvements during  
the ﬁrst full year of ownership of the French 
business, Otor, which we acquired in 
September 2010. In June 2011 we announced 
the closure of one paper mill, and in September 
2011 we announced the sale of a second,  
in aggregate reducing our UK paper capacity 
by an annual run-rate of approximately  
120 thousand tonnes. We disposed of our 
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling division, Spicers, 
in December 2011, fulﬁlling our strategic aim  
of streamlining the Group and releasing capital  
to be used in developing the core business.  
In January 2012 we announced our intention  
to acquire SCA Packaging (excluding its 
kraftliner assets) for €1.6 billion, which will 
make DS Smith the second largest provider of 
corrugated packaging in Europe, and deliver  
a pan-European footprint. We are funding the 
acquisition, in part, with an issue of equity and 
we were delighted with the strong support of 
our shareholders. This acquisition has received 
all the necessary clearances from the 
competition authorities and we are on track  
to complete it, as planned, at the end of  
June 2012. 
Notwithstanding this period of considerable 
change, I am delighted to report that our 
operations have performed very well. Unless 
otherwise indicated, all references to operating 
proﬁt, return on sales, return on average capital 
employed and earnings per share (EPS), are  
on the basis of continuing operations, before 
exceptional items and amortisation of  
intangible assets.
In 2011/12 the Group’s revenues grew  
by 12 per cent, up 8 per cent excluding  
the impact of acquisitions and currency. This 
increase was driven by volume growth in 
corrugated box sales, of 2 per cent, coupled 
with strict pricing discipline, recovering  
cost increases promptly. Operating proﬁt 
increased 28 per cent to £142.0 million 
(2010/11: £110.9 million), an increase of  
20 per cent excluding the impact of acquisitions 
and currency. EPS increased 28 per cent 
despite the dilutive effect of the equity issue  
that completed in February 2012. This result  
follows the prior year where EPS increased  
58 per cent.
The Group has increased its corrugated  
box volumes and made good progress in  
each of its major markets. This progress was 
achieved by focusing on what our customers 
value – service, quality and innovation. 
Delivering against our Key  
Performance Indicators
We have delivered results within our  
previously stated target range for all our  
Key Performance Indicators in relation  
to our ﬁnancial metrics, customer service, 
employees and environmental performance. 
 Improved operating performance
Chief Executive’s statement
Miles Roberts DS Smith Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
5
Business Review
The retailer buys products 
from the FMCG manufacturer. 
They will specify the type of 
packaging that they prefer, to 
that manufacturer. The retailer 
then crushes and bales up its 
used corrugated boxes at the 
back of the store. 
DS Smith buys used cardboard 
from many of the largest 
retailers in the UK through 
its recycling businesses.
We design, manufacture and 
deliver corrugated packaging to 
our customers, delivering the high 
standards of service and quality they 
require. Our corrugated packaging 
customers in 2011/12 were over 
70 per cent fast-moving consumer 
goods (FMCG) manufacturers and 
the remainder are other industrial 
customers, such as car makers. 
Our largest customer comprises 
c. 3 per cent of Group revenue.
 Total sales volume in 
2011/12: 1.2 million 
tonnes/2.4 billion square metres
 Customers: product manufacturers, 
e.g. grocery products and home 
care products through to car parts
A business model for sustainable growth
Our business model is designed to deliver, consistently, a return on capital above our cost of capital.
The design and manufacture of corrugated packaging is at the heart 
of our business, supported by our paper and our recycling businesses. 
In the markets that we operate in, we choose to be a net buyer of 
paper from third parties, as there are plenty of external suppliers of 
this commodity. We regard our recycling business as a way to connect 
with retailers to develop the market for corrugated packaging, as well 
as providing us with ownership of paper ﬁ bre. 
4. Retailer 3. Corrugated packaging
2. Paper
Key raw material: paper. 
c. 34 per cent of our paper 
requirement is sourced from our 
own mills and the remainder 
is bought from third parties.
Total sales volume in 2011/12:
2.4bn sq metres
1. Recycling
Recycled paper is made from 
recovered ﬁ bre, principally from 
used corrugated boxes and other 
used paper and card. It is a 
scarce resource that is traded 
internationally. We have a 
substantial business in the UK 
collecting used corrugated and 
other ﬁ bre direct from retailers. 
This gives us security of supply 
to our paper mills. We see our 
recycling operations as more than 
a sourcing operation. They also 
connect us with our customers’ 
customer, the retailer. By 
engaging with major retailers 
about the beneﬁ ts of corrugated 
packaging, we seek to drive 
growth in the market for 
corrugated packaging.
We manufacture corrugated case 
material (CCM), the paper used 
to make corrugated packaging. 
We are a net buyer of CCM, 
manufacturing only the amount 
strategically necessary to ensure 
consistent economic supply. We 
also manufacture a small amount 
of other paper grades.
Customers such as: 
Tesco, Sainsbury, M&S, Morrisons
Recovered ﬁ bre collected in 2011/12:
 1.8m tonnes
 CCM volume 2011/12: 
0.7 million tonnes
 Other paper sales volume 
2011/12: 0.4 million tonnes
 Customers: corrugated box 
manufacturers. 63 per cent of 
our CCM is used by our own box 
operations and the remainder is 
sold. All of our non-CCM grade 
paper is sold externally 
Key raw materials: recovered ﬁ bre. 
In the UK all of our ﬁ bre is sourced 
from our own recycling business. 
In Europe the ﬁ bre is currently 
sourced externally. Approximately 
1.1 tonnes of ﬁ bre are needed 
to make 1.0 tonnes of paper.
CCM manufactured in 2011/12:
0.7m tonnes
* Excluding output from Hollins Mill, scheduled to close in calendar H2 2012
1.2 Corrugated packaging
The balance of our business (million tonnes)
CCM manufacture*
Fibre collection
0.7
1.8
Long
Short
Long www.dssmith.uk.com 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
6
Key Performance Indicators: measuring our progress, delivering value
We have set testing medium-term targets. We aim to satisfy our four key stakeholders – customers, 
employees, shareholders and the environment – because we believe that this is the way to build  
a sustainable business.
Metric Deﬁnitions
1
FY 2010/11 FY 2011/12 Target
Customer service 
On-time, in-full delivery
The proportion of customer orders that are delivered within  
the required time-slot, in full 96% 97% 97%
Financial  
Like-for-like volume growth
Volume growth of our corrugated box products, excluding  
the effect of acquisitions and disposals +3% +2% GDP +1%
Return on sales
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation, as a percentage  
of revenue 6.3% 7.2% 7 – 9%
Return on average capital employed
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation, as a percentage  
of the average capital employed over the 12 month period 11.5% 14.6% 12 – 15%
Net debt/EBITDA
Net debt at the period end over earnings before interest, tax,  
depreciation and amortisation for the preceeding 12 month period 1.6x net cash ≤2.0x
Operating cash ﬂow/operating proﬁt
Cash generated from operations, before investment capital  
expenditure, as a percentage of earnings before interest and tax 125% 139% >120%
Employee  
Accident frequency rate The number of lost time accidents per million hours worked 8.79 6.85 nil
Environmental  
CO
2
/revenue (kg/£’000) Total CO
2
 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) divided by revenue 518 435 
-20% in 
 10 years
1. All KPIs are calculated in respect of the Group’s continuing operations, excluding amortisation and exceptional items
Volume in our corrugated box business grew  
at 2 per cent in line with our target of GDP+1  
per cent for the markets in which we operate. 
Return on sales improved a further 90 basis 
points to 7.2 per cent (2010/11: 6.3 per 
cent), in line with our target of 7 – 9 per cent. 
This has been driven by the tight control of  
costs and a focus on efﬁciency throughout the 
business, and also a focus on prompt input-cost 
recovery through pricing where necessary. 
Return on average capital employed increased 
310 basis points to 14.6 per cent (2010/11: 
11.5 per cent), towards the upper end of the 
target range of 12 – 15 per cent and well 
above our estimated weighted average cost  
of capital of c.10 per cent. This increase was 
driven by improved proﬁtability and strong 
control of the capital base, including working 
capital. Return on average capital employed  
is our primary ﬁnancial measure of success,  
as it underpins the sustainability of both our 
investment strategy and our dividend policy.  
This metric is our highest priority. All senior 
management have a return on capital target 
included within their incentivisation 
arrangements. 73 per cent of capital 
expenditure during the year has been  
on packaging or recycling, our strategic  
priority areas. 
Average working capital, as a proportion  
of revenue, fell to 4.9 per cent in 2011/12 
(2010/11: 6.4 per cent). The working capital 
improvement has been driven by focused 
attention on all three areas of debtors,  
inventory and creditors.
The Group was highly cash generative in  
the year with free cash ﬂow of £94.5 million 
(2010/11: £72.0 million). The ratio of 
operating cash ﬂow, before investment capital 
expenditure, as a proportion of operating proﬁt, 
was 139 per cent, exceeding our target of 
maintaining this ratio above 120 per cent,  
with the outperformance primarily driven by  
the working capital in-ﬂow over the year. 
As at 30 April 2012, the Group had a net  
cash position due to the cash raised through  
an equity issue in February to fund in part the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging. Cash ﬂow in  
the year also beneﬁted from the sale of Spicers, 
where net proceeds amounted to £184.5 million 
in this ﬁnancial year, and are expected to be 
approximately £171 million once all  
balancing cash items (such as tax)  
are fully paid. On completion of the  
SCA Packaging acquisition, our net  
debt/EBITDA ratio is expected to be 
moderately above our medium-term target  
level of 2.0x. However, as previously 
announced, it is expected to reduce to  
the targeted level by the end of the ﬁrst  
full ﬁnancial year after completion. 
Underpinning the delivery of all our ﬁnancial 
targets has been the Group’s decision to  
be a net purchaser of paper, rather than  
a fully integrated producer. By being long  
in packaging and short in paper, we have  
had the ability to adjust corrugated prices 
quickly where we have needed to and to take 
decisions which may have short-term impacts  
on volume, where they have beneﬁted the 
ﬁnancial performance overall. 
On customer service, our key measure  
of on-time, in-full delivery improved from  
96 per cent to 97 per cent in line with our 
target. The reason this metric is important  
is because it underpins our aim to be  
a trusted, responsive business partner. 
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued DS Smith Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
7
Business Review
An effective strategy driving progress
DS Smith aims to be the leading supplier of recycled packaging because it is an attractive, 
growing market. By focusing on our ﬁ nancial aims, we will deliver attractive, sustainable returns 
to our shareholders. This matrix sets out the building blocks of how we intend to achieve this.
Our aim
To become the leader in recycled packaging for consumer goods
Our implementation strategy
Improving our 
business mix
Differentiating by 
adding value
Efﬁ ciency Developing a winning culture
Building on existing foundations
Financial aim Strategic aim Achievements in 2011/12
Consistent 
GDP+ growth
 Drive the use of retail-ready packaging 
 Build our business across Europe
 Underlying volume growth in corrugated box sales +2 per cent
 Underlying revenue growth +8 per cent
 Announced acquisition of SCA Packaging, building 
a pan-European footprint
Reduced cyclicality Target FMCG customers – to reduce volume 
cyclicality across products
 Reduce exposure to paper production
 Reduce the price review period in contracts 
 Increase the recycling business
 FMCG customer base expanded 
 Sold one paper mill and announced closure of a second, 
total reduction c.120kt
 Recycling business expansion into central and eastern Europe
Higher operating 
proﬁ t margins
 Delivering a high quality product differentiated 
by service, quality and innovation
 Improve efﬁ ciency
 Operating proﬁ t margin up 90 basis points (bps) to 7.2 per cent
 Disposed of our Ofﬁ ce Products Wholesaling division – increased 
margin target from 6 – 8 per cent to 7 – 9 per cent
 Customer service up from 96 per cent to 97 per cent 
on-time, in-full
 €10.0 million cost synergies delivered from Otor
 Substantial growth from R-Flute
®
 £13 million savings delivered from procurement
Returns on capital 
above our cost 
of capital
 Grow our packaging and recycling businesses 
 Reduce working capital from 8 per cent to 5 per 
cent of revenue
 Reduce the proportion of paper manufacturing 
in the Group
 Business mix towards corrugated packaging, paper output 
to reduce by c. 120kt
 Working capital reduced to under 5 per cent of revenue 
 ROACE up 310 bps to 14.6 per cent
 Announced acquisition of SCA Packaging – expected to deliver 
a return on investment above our cost of capital in the ﬁ rst full 
year of ownership
Service is core to our business Innovation is driving proﬁ ts Quality is our trademark
Our strategy in action www.dssmith.uk.com 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
8
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued
3 per cent of the revenue of the acquired 
business. In 2011/12 we delivered savings  
of €10.0 million and are on target to deliver 
the full amount as planned. 
Our procurement team had a target of 
delivering a run-rate of £10.0 million cost 
savings by April 2012. I am delighted with the 
performance of this team, with £13.0 million 
delivered in 2011/12 alone, of which around 
half relates to capital expenditure projects.  
The typical saving from procurement projects 
has been approximately 10 per cent and  
this team has become an integrated part of  
the business. The procurement function will  
be central to delivering procurement savings 
following completion of the acquisition of  
SCA Packaging, and their delivery this year 
demonstrates the capability within DS Smith. 
In December 2010 we set out a target to 
reduce average working capital from 8 per cent 
of revenue to 5 per cent, over the three years  
to April 2014. As set out above, we have now 
delivered that, two years ahead of schedule, 
with working capital at an average of 4.9 per 
cent of revenue in 2011/12. 
Culture
Setting out our strategy in 2010, I said that 
culture would be a key element to its successful 
implementation. Since then, this has been an 
area of important focus throughout the Group 
and we have made considerable progress  
this year. We have launched a new set of 
corporate values, which are to be caring, 
challenging, trusted, responsive and tenacious, 
and which are brought together under a 
programme of communication under the  
banner “OWN IT!”. These values apply to  
all of us throughout the organisation, in both  
our dealings with customers and with each 
other. We have undertaken a detailed roll-out 
programme with every member of staff, in 
conjunction with their team and line manager, 
working through how these values apply to 
them and their work and how they contribute 
personally to the success of DS Smith. We will 
be rolling these out to our new colleagues 
following completion of the SCA Packaging 
acquisition to help all our people to understand 
what it means to work for DS Smith. 
It has been a great year for DS Smith, with  
hard work from our employees, all of whom 
have played their part in delivering the  
excellent results we are reporting today. 
Outlook
Since the start of this new ﬁnancial year, the 
good trading performance reported for the  
year 2011/12 has continued, with good 
performance from packaging and, as 
expected, a more challenging market for our 
modest paper business. Completion on the  
SCA Packaging acquisition is expected to  
take place on 30 June 2012. The key drivers  
in this ﬁnancial year will be the integration of 
SCA Packaging and delivery of the associated 
cost and cash synergies we have previously 
identiﬁed, along with the underlying 
performance of the enlarged Group.
With regard to SCA Packaging, as previously 
announced, we continue to expect that in the 
ﬁrst 12 months of ownership the acquired 
business (inclusive of synergies) will deliver a 
return above the Group’s pre-tax cost of capital 
of c. 10 per cent. The economic conditions 
across Europe remain challenging. DS Smith is 
positioned to perform well in this environment, 
due to our resilient customer base, the 
opportunity for substantial cost and cash 
synergies as previously announced, and our 
track record of delivering sustainable returns  
in challenging market conditions. Accordingly,  
the Board views the prospects for the enlarged 
Group in the coming year with conﬁdence  
and expects to make continued progress.
 Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive
Our innovation programme has been 
developed in the year to co-ordinate this activity 
throughout the business. We provide customers 
with packaging that use less ﬁbre, with less 
carbon and less cost, through technology. 
Examples are the continued roll out of R-Flute
®
  
in the year, the use of our software solutions 
“PackRight” and the development of the 
mechanisation solutions, which maximise  
the performance of our packaging. 
DS Smith has a commitment to provide every 
employee with a safe and productive working 
environment. I am very pleased that our 
accident frequency rate for the continuing 
business has dropped 22 per cent year-on-year. 
The rate of improvement is principally due to  
the roll out of our safety practices in the plants 
previously part of the Otor business, as well  
as continued work throughout the Group. Our 
ultimate target is a zero accident rate and we 
continue to strive to achieve this. Lastly, on the 
environment, our CO
2 
emissions/revenue 
improved by 16 per cent. 
Delivery against our existing  
cost-savings targets
In addition to planning for the SCA Packaging 
acquisition, we have maintained our focus on 
our previously announced cost savings targets  
in relation to the existing business. 
In respect of the UK efﬁciency target to deliver 
£10 million savings by April 2014, we have 
accelerated our plans with additional 
restructuring and are ahead of our original plan, 
with a run-rate of £7.8 million delivered as we 
exit 2011/12. This is principally due to more 
co-ordinated working between the paper and 
the packaging businesses in the UK, for 
example in the area of logistics where we  
now operate a more integrated ﬂeet. We have 
announced the creation of a shared services 
centre in the UK to improve the efﬁciency  
of our back-ofﬁce support functions, which  
will become operational over the coming  
12 to 18 months. 
Our French business had a target of  
delivering €13.0 million synergies from the Otor 
acquisition by April 2013, a target which had 
originally started at €9.3 million, equivalent to  Business Review
A sustainable business model, creating value through differentiation on 
a pan-European scale
DS Smith Recycling prides itself on the level of 
service offered to customers. We make thousands 
of collections per day, across the UK. Our transport 
ﬂ eet operates out of 15 recycling facilities. Our 
customers rely on us regularly collecting their used 
paper and board, and we then ensure it is recycled, 
with nothing to landﬁ ll. 
Tesco has been a customer of DS Smith Recycling in 
the UK for over 25 years. We were delighted when 
they chose us to manage their recycling and residual 
waste streams in Poland as part of a total waste 
management contract. We now collect from over 
400 sites in Poland, covering all major towns and 
cities. This provides an excellent platform for us to 
grow in this important developing region.
Service
The Impact and Innovation Centres in the UK and 
France have proved to be a successful format for 
demonstrating to customers and retailers the beneﬁ ts 
that packaging, designed by DS Smith, can bring. In 
April 2012 the new Impact and Innovation Centre in 
Poland opened. The 300 m
2
 space was adapted to 
show the supermarket, back of store and warehousing 
areas in order to present the DS Smith expertise and 
understanding of the FMCG packaging. Customers 
are able to inspect wide ranging examples of best 
practice across all categories, get to grips with 
leading edge developments and conduct practical 
experiments with their own packaging in order to 
generate solutions for better sales and proﬁ ts.
Innovation
DS Smith worked closely with valued customer 
Chivas Brothers and leading brand Chivas Regal, to 
create a consumer pack to promote their 4.5L bottle 
of 12 year old Premium Blended Scotch Whisky.
The bottle is housed in a creatively designed cradle 
for dispensing, held securely within the pack. The 
result is an impressive EFIA 2011 award-winning 
corrugated pack that is post printed in 5 colours with 
a varnish. The print includes a stylish metallic silver 
look, produced to complement the gift carton pack.
Quality
DS Smith Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
9
