 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
Gareth Davis
Chairman
I am delighted to report that 2012/13 has 
been another year of substantial progress in 
what has been a transformational period for 
the Group. During the year the Group has 
made further strides towards our strategic aim 
of becoming the leading supplier of recycled 
packaging for consumer goods in Europe and 
we are now a leading player, with very strong 
market positions across the largest and fastest 
growing markets in Europe. This has been 
achieved through a combination of organic 
growth in our core packaging businesses, 
together with the acquisition of SCA Packaging 
which has doubled the size of our business.
DS Smith has gone through a great deal of 
change in the last three years and particularly 
in the last 12 months. Managing that change 
has been a fundamental part of the good 
governance of this Company and the 
responsibilities of addressing the interests of  
all of our various stakeholders – shareholders, 
employees, customers and the environment –  
are at the forefront of our decision making 
processes. With good governance in mind, 
the Group has augmented and strengthened 
the Board with two additional members who 
bring further expertise.
Corporate developments and strategy
In December 2010 we set out a clear strategy 
to investors, accompanied by key performance 
indicators and the actions that we would seek 
to take. A key part of our strategy was to build 
a packaging and recycling business in existing 
A YEAR OF 
TRANSFORMATION
Dividend per share
 8.0p
2012: 5.9p
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
(Value £)
Total shareholder return*
DS Smith FTSE 250 Index
Source: Thomson Reuters
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
*  This graph shows the value, at 30 April 2013, of £100 invested in DS Smith over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years compared  
with that of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.               17
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
OUR VALUES
We believe that a clear set of values and 
behaviours, owned and lived by all our 
employees, can make a fundamental 
difference to how they feel and go about  
their work.
DS Smith is founded on the  
following values:
BE CARING 
We take pride in what we do and care  
about our customers, our people and the 
world around us.
BE CHALLENGING 
We are not afraid to constructively 
challenge each other and ourselves  
to ﬁnd a better way forward.
BE TRUSTED 
We can always be trusted to deliver  
on our promises.
BE RESPONSIVE 
We seek new ideas and understanding 
and are quick to react to opportunities.
BE TENACIOUS 
We get things done.
markets and new markets, and in January 
2012, we announced our intention to acquire 
SCA Packaging, the second largest corrugated 
packaging group in Europe. This transaction 
signiﬁcantly extended our footprint across 
Europe, enabling us to offer pan-European 
coverage to our largest customers whilst 
continuing to support our local customers. The 
acquisition was completed on 30 June 2012, 
and we have been delighted with the progress 
made on the integration of the two businesses, 
as a result of the clear planning which was put 
into effect on day one of our ownership of 
SCA Packaging. We have strengthened the 
organisational and management structures to 
reﬂect the doubling in size of the Group and to 
accord with the greater scope of the enlarged 
business. Substantial progress has been made 
with regard to the delivery of synergies 
identiﬁed in the original announcement of  
the acquisition, and we have signiﬁcantly 
upgraded these synergy targets over the  
course of the year. 
Trading performance
Throughout this transformational period,  
our core packaging businesses have  
continued to deliver a solid performance, 
despite the challenging economic headwinds 
and we have delivered an 86 per cent 
increase in revenue and a 77 per cent 
increase in operating proﬁt. The performance 
of the legacy DS Smith packaging business 
has been particularly pleasing and we are 
also encouraged by the improving trend in  
the former SCA Packaging business, giving  
us conﬁdence for further improvements over  
the course of the next year. SCA Packaging 
has delivered a return above our cost of 
capital in the ﬁrst year of the acquisition, a  
full year earlier than originally anticipated,  
and the Group as a whole, has delivered a 
return on average capital employed of 12.3 
per cent.  Earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased 36 per cent to 17.4 
pence (2011/12: 12.8 pence).
Dividend
The Board considers the dividend to be an 
important component of shareholder returns.  
In December 2010 we set out our dividend 
policy for a progressive dividend where 
dividend cover is expected to average 
between 2.0 and 2.5 times through the cycle.
Accordingly, the Board recommends a  
ﬁnal dividend for 2012/13 of 5.5 pence  
per share, which together with the interim 
dividend of 2.5 pence per share gives a total 
dividend for the year of 8.0 pence per share 
(2011/12: 5.9 pence per share). This 
represents an increase of 36 per cent over  
the prior year and a cover of 2.2 times in 
relation to adjusted earnings per share, in  
line with our policy.
Board changes
DS Smith has a very strong Board. This reﬂects 
the exciting potential for growth for the Group 
over the coming years.
In order to reﬂect the size of the enlarged 
Group, we have sought to further augment  
the strength of our Board and have conducted 
a thorough search with the following newly 
appointed additional members. Kathleen 
O’Donovan joined the Board on 5 December 
2012, having previously been Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of BTR plc and Invensys plc, together 
with a number of non-Executive Directorships 
for a variety of high proﬁle companies, thereby 
bringing a breadth of experience across 
numerous industry sectors. Chris Britton  
joined the Board on 6 March 2013, having 
previously been Chief Executive of the Findus 
Group and Global Marketing Director of 
Diageo, and is currently a non-Executive 
Director of Alliance Boots GmbH and brings  
a wealth of experience in the consumer  
goods sector.
In January 2013 Steve Dryden, Group 
Finance Director, announced his intention to 
step down from the Board to take up a role in 
a private equity backed business. Steve joined 
the Board in April 2008 and stepped down 
on 28 June 2013. I would like to thank him  
for his signiﬁcant contribution to DS Smith over 
the last ﬁve years, where he has played an 
instrumental part in considerably re-shaping the 
Group, and the Board wishes him well in his 
future career.
We conducted an extensive search for a  
new Group Finance Director and recently 
announced the appointment of Adrian Marsh, 
who will take up his position with DS Smith in 
late September, at which time he will also join 
the Board. Adrian is currently the Group 
Director of Tax, Treasury and Corporate 
Finance at Tesco PLC, and was previously  
the European Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at 
AstraZeneca plc and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
for the Global Building Products division  
at Pilkington plc and brings a wealth of 
international experience together with 
knowledge of the manufacturing, consumer 
and retail sectors.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank all our colleagues throughout DS Smith 
for the substantial efforts made by everyone to 
deliver these results this year, in what has been 
a very exciting period for the Group. It is the 
continuing commitment and focus on the part 
of our colleagues to deliver great service, 
quality and innovation to our customers, which 
enables the delivery of ongoing substantial 
progress for the Group as a whole.
In 2013/14, we look forward to delivering 
further substantial progress.
Gareth Davis
Chairman
