 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive
Overview
2012/13 has been a hugely transformational 
period, as we continue on the journey to 
achieve our strategic goal: to become the 
leading supplier of recycled packaging for 
consumer goods. We are doing this, together 
with a continued focus on medium-term 
ﬁnancial performance, by growing our 
packaging and recycling businesses, reducing 
our exposure to paper manufacturing and 
disposing of non-core businesses and assets.
On 30 June 2012, we completed the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging for €1.6 billion, 
which has doubled the size of our business, 
making us a leading provider of corrugated 
packaging across Europe. In September 
2012, we announced a licensing agreement 
with RockTenn (one of North America’s leading 
integrated manufacturers of corrugated 
packaging) giving them exclusive rights to 
manufacture and distribute our patented 
mechanisation technology and associated 
pack designs in the US. This has enabled  
DS Smith to gain wider access to a very large 
and well developed market, whilst at the same 
time establishing another route for offering  
our largest customers global support to their 
brands. We have also signed further licensing 
agreements in other geographical markets and 
are excited about the opportunities in these 
new areas. Notwithstanding this period of 
considerable change, I am delighted to report 
that overall our operations have performed 
well against a challenging macro-economic 
and market environment.  
In 2012/13, the Group’s revenues grew  
by 86 per cent to £3.7 billion predominantly 
due to the acquisition of SCA Packaging, 
accompanied by underlying volume growth  
in corrugated box sales. Operating proﬁt 
increased 77 per cent to £250.9 million 
(2011/12: £142.0 million) and includes 
€40 million of cost synergies. EPS increased 
36 per cent and follows a strong result in the 
prior year where EPS increased 28 per cent. 
MORE GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES AHEAD               19
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
BUSINESS MODEL
DS Smith is one of the largest pan-European 
suppliers of corrugated packaging, with the 
aim of becoming the leader in recycled 
packaging for consumer goods. Our business 
model is to be long in recycling, in order to 
ensure the security of supply of recycled ﬁbres 
used in our packaging. We are short in 
paper manufacturing where returns are more 
volatile and are lower across the business 
cycle than in other areas of our business. We 
are long in recycled corrugated packaging 
which is the main focus of our operation and 
innovation, with some complementary plastic 
packaging businesses where we see 
attractive growth opportunities.
This business mix is optimised to leverage  
our scale and geographic footprint in order  
to supply our customers, whether it is our  
large pan-European customers or our smaller 
local customers, with innovative packaging 
solutions that are aligned with our quality  
and service standards. In what is a 
fragmented market place, we are one of  
only two suppliers who can provide a truly 
pan-European offering and we see further 
opportunities to consolidate and grow our 
market share in Europe.
Our closed loop recycling model is also an 
important differentiator as consumer goods 
companies and retailers seek to fulﬁl their 
environmental commitments. The closed loop 
involves the collection of used corrugated 
boxes, typically from the retailer, which are  
then used to manufacture corrugated case 
material, the paper used to make corrugated 
packaging. We design, manufacture and 
deliver corrugated packaging to our 
customers, the majority of which are FMCG 
companies, who in turn will deliver their 
product to the retailers, thereby completing  
the closed loop. The closed loop model 
addresses the growing demand for recycled 
products, driven by increasing awareness 
across the supply chain. It also provides an 
opportunity to engage with retailers about  
the beneﬁts of corrugated packaging in 
improving the efﬁciency of their operations. 
View more online at  
www.dssmith.uk.com
INNOVATION
SERVICE
QUALITY
INNOVA V V T A A ION
QUALITY T T
PAPER
RECYCLING
PACKAGING
RETAILER RE
CKAG
PER
SUSTAINABLE 
SOLUTIONS 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
We are very encouraged with the progress 
made in our core packaging businesses to 
improve service, quality and innovation to  
our customers. 
Integration of SCA Packaging
We have made considerable progress with 
the integration of the two businesses, with a 
clear integration plan and management team 
in place on the ﬁrst day of ownership of SCA 
Packaging. That detailed level of focus and 
planning has enabled us to deliver synergies 
much earlier than originally anticipated, with 
€40 million of cost synergies and €120 
million of cash synergies delivered in the ﬁrst 
year. In addition, with the strong commitment 
and engagement of our people across the 
Group, we have identiﬁed further synergy 
targets and increased our overall target for cost 
synergies to €120 million, with the target for 
cash synergies increasing to €150 million.
The level of working capital within the former 
SCA Packaging business has more than 
halved under our ownership. We have also 
driven operating efﬁciencies by strengthening 
our processes around procurement and 
creating a management structure to improve 
our sourcing, supply and management of 
paper within the business to serve our 
packaging business in the most efﬁcient way. 
Our customer proposition is substantially 
enhanced through the enlarged geographic 
footprint across Europe, therefore better able  
to serve our pan-European customers, where 
we are seeing stronger volume growth in our 
legacy DS Smith business and an improving 
trend in the former SCA Packaging business. 
As we have previously said, culture is a key 
element to achieving our strategic aims. In the 
prior year, we introduced our corporate values 
which we communicated via the OWN IT! 
programme to all colleagues, and this 
programme is now being rolled out to our 
former SCA Packaging colleagues, helping  
all our people to understand what it means  
to work for DS Smith.
Delivering against our  
synergies targets
When we originally announced the acquisition 
of SCA Packaging in January 2012, we 
identiﬁed a number of synergies in terms of 
both cost and cash savings which we believed 
were achievable through improved efﬁciencies 
and scale beneﬁts throughout the combined 
Group. Over the course of the past 12 months, 
STRATEGY & VISION
DRIVING OUR GROWTH
STRATEGIC GOALS 
DS Smith aims to be the leading supplier of recycled packaging for  
consumer goods. We want to become a trusted and strategic partner to  
our customers, providing innovative packaging solutions for all their needs.  
By focusing on our strategic aims we will deliver attractive, sustainable returns 
to our shareholders and meet the needs of all our stakeholders. This matrix  
sets out the building blocks for how we intend to achieve this.
Our vision Aim How we will succeed
To become  
the leader  
in recycled 
packaging  
for consumer 
goods.
To delight  
our customers.
By delivering on all  
our commitments.
By becoming trusted and strategic 
partners through providing 
innovative packaging solutions.
To realise the  
potential of  
our people.
By creating a place where  
people are proud to work  
and give their best.
By living our values through  
everything we do.
To consistently deliver 
shareholder value.
By winning market share and  
expanding into new markets.
By building a resilient and 
sustainable business model.
To lead the way  
in recycling.
By setting the standard for  
recycling packaging.
By building sustainability into  
our decisions.               21
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES
We have set testing medium-term targets. We aim to satisfy our  
four key stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders and  
the environment – because we believe that this is the way to build  
a sustainable business.
All KPIs are calculated in respect of the Group’s continuing operations, excluding amortisation and exceptional items for the period. 
1.  Average gross domestic product (GDP) growth for the countries in which we operate was (0.5%) – GDP +1% target = 0.5%. 
2.   Average capital employed is the average monthly capital employed for the last 12 months. Capital employed is made up of property,  
plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors/creditors, provisions and assets/liabilities held for sale.
KPI
What we measure Deﬁnition  FY 2011/12  FY 2012/13 Target
Customer Service
On-time, in-full delivery The proportion of customer orders that are delivered  
within the required time-slot, in-full.
 97% 94% 97%
Employee
Accident frequency rate The number of lost time accidents per million  
hours worked.
 6.88  6.01 nil
Financial
Like-for-like corrugated  
volume growth
Volume growth of our corrugated box products,  
excluding the effect of acquisitions and disposals.
 +2%  +0.6%
1
 GDP +1%
Return on sales Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation,  
as a percentage of revenue.
 7.2%  6.8% 7 – 9%
Return on average  
capital employed
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation,  
as a percentage of the average capital employed
2
 
over the 12 month period.
 14.6%  12.3% 12 – 15%
Net debt/EBITDA Net debt at the period end over earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for the 
preceeding 12 month period.
 net cash  1.97x ≤2.0x
Cash conversion Free cash ﬂow before tax, net interest, growth capital 
expenditure and pension deﬁcit reduction payments,  
as a percentage of earnings before interest, tax,  
amortisation and exceptional items.
 139%  171% >120%
Environmental
Reduction of CO
2
 emissions  
by 20 per cent relative to  
production over the next 10 years
Total CO
2
 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) related to 
production (kg/tonnes).
 308.1 284.4 -20% in 
 10 years 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.dssmith.uk.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
we have made substantial progress towards 
achieving those targets which we upgraded 
from €75 million to €100 million for cost 
synergies and from €40 million to €130 
million for cash synergies in October 2012.  
In addition, we have also identiﬁed €100 
million of surplus assets for disposal over the 
course of three years to 2015. In 2012/13 
we have delivered €40 million of cost savings 
and €120 million of cash savings, together 
with net proceeds of €60 million from the 
disposal of surplus assets. These savings  
have been achieved well ahead of the  
original timetable.
In addition to this, and as a result of the  
strong commitment and engagement of our 
people across the Group, we have now 
identiﬁed further synergy targets and have 
again increased our overall target for cost 
synergies to €120 million and for cash 
synergies to €150 million.
Delivering against our Key 
Performance Indicators
Notwithstanding the considerable changes 
over the past year, we have delivered results 
substantially within our previously stated  
target range for our Key Performance  
Indicators in relation to our ﬁnancial  
metrics, customer service, employees  
and environmental performance.
Volume in our corrugated box business grew  
at 0.6 per cent, in line with our target GDP +1 
per cent for the markets in which we operate. 
Return on sales declined by 40 basis points  
to 6.8 per cent (2011/12: 7.2 per cent)  
(up 20 basis points on a pro forma basis,  
with pro forma deﬁned as like-for-like including 
SCA Packaging results from July 2011 to April 
2012), just below our target range of 7-9 per 
cent and reﬂects the anticipated impact of the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging together with 
the poor performance in paper. However we 
would expect the level of return to improve 
over time as we continue to drive efﬁciencies 
and synergy savings through the business.
Return on average capital employed declined 
by 230 basis points to 12.3 per cent 
(2011/12: 14.6 per cent) (up 30 basis 
points on a pro forma basis) but is within the 
target range of 12-15 per cent and well 
above our estimated cost of capital of c. 9.5 
per cent. The decline reﬂects both the lower 
margin and the lower level of asset utilisation 
historically achieved within SCA Packaging. 
We have made great progress over the past 
year in reducing the level of working capital 
within the former SCA Packaging business and 
we expect to see an increase in asset utilisation 
together with greater operating efﬁciencies 
over the coming years. Return on average 
capital employed is our primary ﬁnancial 
measure of success, as it underpins the 
sustainability of both our investment strategy 
and our dividend policy and we are delighted 
to have achieved a return above our cost of 
capital for SCA Packaging in the ﬁrst year, a 
full year earlier than originally anticipated. All 
senior management have a return on capital 
target included within their incentivisation 
arrangements. The majority of capital 
expenditure during the year has been  
on packaging or recycling, our strategic 
priority areas.
Average monthly working capital, as a 
proportion of revenue, fell to 4.5 per cent 
(2011/12: 4.9 per cent). Historically, levels 
in the former SCA Packaging business were 
closer to 10 per cent. This overall improvement 
has been driven by focused attention on all 
three areas of inventory, debtors and creditors.
The Group was highly cash generative in the 
year with free cash ﬂow of £270.4 million 
(2011/12: £94.5 million). Cash conversion 
was 171 per cent, substantially exceeding our 
target of maintaining this ratio above 120 per 
cent, with the outperformance primarily driven 
by the working capital inﬂow over the year.
At 30 April 2013, the Group had a net debt 
position of £817.0 million (2011/12: net 
cash £321.7 million) reﬂecting the gross 
consideration of £1.3 billion for the acquisition 
of SCA Packaging which was funded through 
a combination of equity and debt. Cash  
ﬂow in the year has also beneﬁtted from the 
remedy disposals required by the European 
competition authorities relating to the 
acquisition of SCA Packaging, together  
Cost and cash synergies upgraded to
€ 1 20m 
and
€ 1 50m
€40m cost and €120m cash 
synergies delivered in 2012/13
Average working capital to revenue
4.5%
2011/12: 4.9%
Free cash ﬂow
£270.4m
2011/12: £94.5m               23
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
with some minor asset disposals with net 
proceeds amounting to £50.8 million. Despite 
increasing our investment in the business, our 
net debt/EBITDA ratio was below our target  
of 2 times or below, and has been achieved  
a full year earlier than expected.
Since we acquired SCA Packaging, we have 
improved the levels of customer service within 
that business. For the Group as a whole our 
key measure of on-time, in-full delivery remains 
strong at 94 per cent, although this is below 
our target of 97 per cent and reﬂects a lower 
level of service delivery in some of the former 
SCA Packaging businesses; we are working 
hard to improve these delivery standards as 
we recognise the importance of this metric  
in underpinning our aim to become a trusted 
strategic business partner. We continue to 
develop innovative products and services, 
providing customers with packaging that  
uses less ﬁbre, with less carbon and less  
cost, through technology. Examples are the 
continued roll-out of R-Flute
®
 which is gaining 
traction with our customers across our enlarged 
geographic footprint, the use of our 
“PackRight” supply-chain tools and software, 
and the ongoing development of unique 
mechanisation solutions, all of which improve 
the value that we are able to deliver to our 
customers via bespoke packaging solutions. 
DS Smith has a commitment to provide every 
employee with a safe and productive working 
environment. I am delighted to report that our 
accident frequency rate for the Group has 
improved by 13 per cent year-on-year. This 
rate of improvement is particularly pleasing 
given the substantial changes in the business 
over the past year and reﬂects the leadership 
shown by the Group’s managers across the 
enlarged business together with the ongoing 
commitment of our colleagues to working 
safely. Our target is a zero accident rate and 
we continue to strive to achieve this.
Summary and outlook
We are delighted with the progress made  
over the year where we have seen good 
performances across our core packaging 
businesses, and we are particularly pleased 
with the integration of the two businesses. 
The current year has started well and in line 
with our expectations. Continued market share 
gains, together with the delivery of further 
synergies underpin our conﬁdence for the 
future, despite the market backdrop remaining 
challenging and the expected impact of input 
cost pressures. Our strengthened customer 
proposition will be further enhanced by 
increased investment in capital expenditure, 
R&D and new business development. Looking 
ahead we remain excited about the further 
growth opportunities for the Group. 
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive
