 04/05 
www.dunelm-mill.com
Job:	 11165_DUN_AR08_frt_AW	 Proof:	 03	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	tim	 Date:	 22.09.08	
Server:	 Studio	2	 Set-up:	 rich	 First	Read/Revisons
Chief Executive’s 
review
Will Adderley Chief Executive
We remain as committed 
as ever to growing the 
superstore portfolio as 
rapidly as we can towards 
our medium term target of 
150 superstores. 
Trading
I am delighted to report continued successful growth of the 
Group during the last financial year. Our overall sales 
increased by 10.5%, including growth of 2.5% in like-for-like 
sales (calculated by comparing stores which have traded 
throughout the last two financial years). 
The market environment became increasingly difficult during 
the year. 
I firmly believe that Dunelm remains the leading multiple 
homewares specialist in the UK. This has been recognised in 
surveys by Verdict, the specialist market research agency. In 
December 2007 , they reported that Dunelm is Britain’s third 
favourite shop behind only John Lewis and Waitrose. More 
recently, their research identified Dunelm as one of the four 
retailers which engender the highest levels of customer 
loyalty. We intend to maintain this success by pursuing the 
four strategic priorities which we outlined two years ago at 
the time of our flotation.
Priority 1 – growing the store portfolio
We opened eight new superstores in the year, at Aberdeen, 
Shoreham, Peterborough, Dumfries, Eastbourne, Leeds, 
Bournemouth and Sittingbourne. We continue to receive 
strongly positive customer reaction to all of our new 
openings and are pleased with trading in all of these 
locations. Altogether the chain of 76 superstores as at the 
year-end provided over 2.2m square feet of selling space.
 
We remain as committed as ever to growing the superstore 
portfolio as rapidly as we can towards our medium-term 
target of 150 superstores, without compromising our long-
term financial returns. We have opened a further store since 
the year-end in Huddersfield and are contractually 
committed to six more units which are due to open this 
financial year or early next. We also have numerous further 
opportunities under negotiation. With few out-of-town 
retailers currently in the market for adding space, we believe 
that we are well positioned to achieve a solid pipeline of 
openings in the next few years. 
Whilst expanding our superstore chain, we continue to 
look for opportunities to relocate our older high street shops. 
The superstore opening in Peterborough replaced our high 
street shop there, leaving us with 13 high street stores; we will 
be relocating our Worcester high street store early in 2009.
Priority 2 – developing the customer offer
We know that it is essential for us to continue improving  
our retail proposition. We are as passionate as ever about 
giving ‘simply value for money’ to all our customers – a 
combination of great prices, unrivalled choice, excellent 
quality, great product availability and friendly service. 
One of the ways in which we are able to demonstrate the 
quality of the ranges we offer is through branding. We 
recently announced the acquisition of worldwide rights to 
Dorma, the internationally recognised bedlinen brand, from 
Dawson International for a consideration of £5m. We see this 
as a great way to underline the quality of our merchandise, 
as well as providing a strong point of difference compared 
with other home textiles retailers.  Job:	 11165_DUN_AR08_frt_AW	 Proof:	 03	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	tim	 Date:	 22.09.08	
Server:	 Studio	2	 Set-up:	 rich	 First	Read/Revisons
Business review
Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2008
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review
Simply focused
We have commenced a significant investment programme 
to improve the shopping environment in our older stores. We 
have completed three refits so far and intend to continue 
our refit programme at the rate of 5–10 stores per year. To 
date the cost has been approximately £0.5m per store.
Priority 3 – exploiting our infrastructure
Following the roll-out of SAP stock management to all of our 
stores in the last twelve months we have had full visibility of all 
stock throughout the chain. We have used this to develop a 
chain-wide focus on the availability of key lines and we have 
seen a noticeable improvement in availability as a result.
Looking ahead we will continue to exploit our enhanced 
systems and information in various ways, for example in  
the areas of range management and simplification of  
in-store tasks.
Priority 4 – growing Dunelm Direct
Our webstore has been expanded to offer over 9,000 
products. Whilst this channel remains small relative to the 
business as a whole, sales are growing and we see an 
important future here. We are therefore investing in a new 
software platform for the on-line business which should be 
implemented during the current financial year, and which will 
offer a big improvement in the on-line shopping experience.
Outlook
In the early weeks of our new financial year, we have 
continued to face difficult trading conditions. For the 10 
weeks to 6 September, total sales growth has been 3.1% and 
like-for-like sales have declined by 5.7%; last year’s equivalent 
figures were +12.6% and +7 .2% respectively. Gross margin has 
remained strong, with an increase of 140 bps year on year 
driven by higher levels of promotional product and earlier 
introduction of new lines after our summer sale.
Against a very challenging market background, we are 
satisfied with these figures and believe that we continue to 
gain market share on a like-for-like basis. We naturally remain 
cautious about the medium-term outlook, but the current 
market conditions provide us with clear opportunities to 
grow and strengthen our business relative to the competition. 
Will Adderley
Chief Executive
11 September 2008
