 Annual report & accounts 2009 Dunelm Group plc
Business review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
03
Chief Executive’s review
opened three further stores since the 
year-end in Norwich, Londonderry and 
Broadstairs and we are contractually 
committed to nine more units which are 
due to open over the next twelve months. 
We also have numerous further 
opportunities under negotiation. With 
little occupier demand for ‘big box’ retail 
warehousing space, we believe that we are 
well positioned to continue our store 
roll-out programme over the next few 
years whilst maintaining our disciplined 
and demanding approach to return  
on investment. 
Whilst expanding our superstore chain 
towards our medium-term target of at 
least 150 superstores, we continue to look 
for opportunities to relocate our older high 
street shops. The superstore opening in 
Worcester replaced our high street store 
there, leaving us with 12 high street stores.
Priority 2 – developing the customer offer
We know that it is essential for us to 
continue improving our retail proposition. 
We are as passionate as ever about giving 
‘Simply Value For Money’ to all our 
customers – a combination of price,  
choice, quality, product availability and 
friendly service. 
We have introduced a number of 
developments in our offer over the past 
We see an 
increasing number 
of opportunities 
to grow the 
superstore 
portfolio without 
compromising 
our long-term 
financial returns.
Trading
I am delighted to report continued 
successful growth of the Group during the 
last financial year. Our overall sales 
increased by 8.2% over the financial year, or 
6.3% on a comparable 52 week basis.  
Like-for-like sales (calculated by comparing 
stores which have traded throughout the 
last two financial years) recovered from a 
decline of 5.6% in the first half to end the 
year just 0.5% down – significantly beating 
the overall homewares market. 
I firmly believe that Dunelm remains the 
leading multiple homewares specialist in 
the UK. We intend to maintain our success 
by pursuing the four priorities which have 
constituted our strategy since flotation.
Priority 1 – growing the store portfolio
We opened six new superstores in the year, 
at Huddersfield, Newtownabbey, 
Plymouth, Worcester, Workington and 
Llanelli. We continue to receive very 
favourable customer reaction to all of our 
new openings and are pleased with trading 
in all of these locations. Altogether the 
chain of 82 superstores as at the year-end 
provided 2.4m square feet of selling space.
 
We see an increasing number of 
opportunities to grow the superstore 
portfolio without compromising our 
long-term financial returns. We have  Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009
04
Focused on  
growing  
Dunelm Direct
Chief Executive’s review
continued
year. For example, we have launched an 
arts & crafts section in a number of stores, 
and have grouped together various existing 
ranges to create a new laundry & cleaning 
section. We now also offer add-on services 
in many stores – for example, we deliver 
products to customers’ homes and fit them 
when required. 
We have responded to the difficult 
economic environment by increasing the 
proportion of special buys available for 
customers, and have introduced some 
additional short-term product promotions 
under the banner of ‘Miss It Miss Out’.
In our new and refitted stores, we now 
include a dedicated Dorma area, following 
our acquisition of rights to the Dorma brand 
in July 2008 (Dorma is a high-end home 
textiles brand with strong heritage in bed 
linen particularly). We have successfully 
retained Dorma’s royal warrants following 
the acquisition, have refined the branding 
and have developed an exciting new range 
of Dorma bed linen designs exclusive to 
Dunelm. We have also begun to apply the 
Dorma name to other product categories 
such as bathroom and table linen.
We have continued investing to improve 
the shopping environment in our older 
stores. We completed six refits in the  
last financial year and intend to continue 
our refit programme at the rate of 5–10 
stores per year. To date the cost has been 
approximately £0.5m per store, with 
payback anticipated in approximately 3–5 
years. We have received a good response  
to these refitted stores both from 
customers and from our store teams.
Priority 3 – growing Dunelm Direct
Dunelm Direct is the name we give to our 
multi-channel strategy. Sales from our 
website (www.dunelm-mill.com) have 
grown well over the last financial year. We 
expect this to continue in the coming year 
as we are about to relaunch the site on a 
new technology platform which will 
improve the shopping experience and give 
us a much stronger technological base to 
build upon.
Also on this new technology platform will 
be a new website for Dorma (www.dorma.
co.uk) which will act as a showcase for the 
Dorma brand, stocking all Dorma products, 
whether Dunelm exclusive designs or 
products distributed under licence by our 
third party partner.
Whilst it is still early days for our Dunelm 
Direct growth strategy we think the 
investment we have made over the last 
financial year will give us a strong and 
scalable platform on which to build.
Priority 4 – exploiting our infrastructure
We continue to extract further benefits from 
our past investment in IT systems, enabling 
us to improve stock control and make 
in-store processes more efficient. We are 
also seeing improvements to our customer 
offer directly supported by IT, for example 
the forthcoming launch of a gift card.
We are taking steps to underpin our 
medium term expansion plans by securing 
additional leasehold space at our central 
warehouse in Stoke, where we have an 
option over 100,000 square feet of 
warehousing to supplement the 250,000 
square feet we currently occupy. We 
anticipate moving operations into this 
additional space during 2010. Our capital 
expenditure to fit out new warehousing 
space is not expected to exceed £2m.
As our business grows, we will also need  
to expand our head office facility. We are 
investigating the possible purchase of 
freehold land in the neighbourhood of  
our existing base in Syston, Leicester.  
This is a long-term project and any new 
building is unlikely to be ready for 
occupation until 2011. 
Outlook
For the first 10 weeks of our financial  
year, to 12 September, total sales growth 
has been 26.5% and like-for-like sales  
have grown by 16.1%. Gross margin has 
remained strong, with an increase of 
180bps year-on-year. 
We are very pleased with the start to  
our new financial year. We are confident 
1 1,000+
Our webstore has been relaunched 
with over 1 1,000 products Annual report & accounts 2009 Dunelm Group plc
Business review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
05
that our ‘Simply Value For Money’ 
proposition will continue to appeal to 
customers in the current economic 
climate. Our product ranges are suitable 
for all budgets and tastes. Our business is 
not significantly reliant on big-ticket 
purchases – our average basket remains 
below £30. In addition, the relatively weak 
state of the commercial property market 
gives us good opportunities to roll out  
our offer to more locations. Having said  
all this, we recognise that it will be very 
challenging to maintain our recent trading 
performance as like-for-like sales 
comparatives start to strengthen, and 
economic factors (including the planned 
increase in VAT and anticipations of  
public spending reductions and rising 
unemployment) potentially subdue 
consumer spending. Nonetheless, the 
business is in excellent health, we are 
confident of continuing to grow our  
market share and we remain excited  
about our growth prospects in the  
medium term.
  
 
Will Adderley
Chief Executive
15 September 2009 Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009
06
Focusing on  
growing our  
store portfolio
85
Superstores located 
throughout the UK
