 8 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Our key strengths
UK’s largest specialist •	
homewares retailer
Portfolio of established out- •	
of-town superstores, average 
sales area approximately 
30,000 square feet
‘Simply Value for Money’ •	
proposition: 
– Good quality products 
– Great prices 
– Industry leading choice 
– Deep availability 
–  Friendly knowledgeable 
service
On-line store featuring 20,000 •	
products
Owner of ‘Dorma’ brand •	
Robust, scalable infrastructure •	
Experienced management •	
team, entrepreneurial culture
Highly cash generative •	
Strong balance sheet •	
“The Board’s confidence 
in the continuing cash 
generation of the business 
is reflected in our proposal 
to reduce dividend cover 
to the bottom of our 
target range at 2.5x.”
Geoff Cooper Chairman
Chairman’ s statement
The most recent financial year has been 
a challenging period for most non-food 
retailers. In the context of subdued customer 
demand for homewares, it was a satisfactory 
achievement for Dunelm to deliver  
like-for-like (LFL) sales growth in two of  
the four quarters, with only a small decline 
in LFL sales over the year as a whole. With 
continuing progress on gross margin and 
good contribution from stores opened in  
the last 24 months, the Group was able to 
deliver a highly creditable 9.0% increase in 
profit before tax.
We have continued to generate very strong 
operating cash flows. This enabled the 
Group to fund out of current cash flow 
a record year of capital investment in the 
business, including new stores, a larger 
refit programme and also key infrastructure 
investments comprising a doubling of space 
at the central warehouse in Stoke and the 
creation of a new head office facility. 
The Board’s confidence in the continuing 
cash generation of the business is reflected in 
our proposal to reduce dividend cover to the 
bottom of our target range at 2.5x, leading 
to a recommended 60% increase in the final 
dividend to 8.0p per share (2010 – 5.0p). This 
would bring full year dividends to 11.5p per 
share (2010 – 8.0p), an increase of 43.8%. 
It is the Board’s intention to grow future 
dividends in line with earnings. In addition, 
the Board will continue to review the capital 
structure of the Group, returning excess 
capital if appropriate. 
Since taking over as Chief Executive from 
Will Adderley in the course of the year, Nick 
Wharton has assumed full responsibility for 
running Dunelm. Will continues to provide 
support to Nick on key trading issues such 
as managing the effects of cotton price 
increases, and will be able to allocate his  
time increasingly to development activities. 
Looking ahead, we have a range of exciting 
development initiatives and attractive 
network expansion opportunities. Despite 
seeing no major catalyst for significant short 
term growth in the homewares market, we 
are confident in our ‘SImply Value for Money’ 
offer and look forward to further growth in 
profits and returns.
Geoff Cooper
Chairman
15 September 2011 9 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance Financial statements Business review Business overview 
