 10 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Chief Executive’ s review
Nick Wharton Chief Executive
Business highlights
10 new superstore openings •	
(including one relocation) and 
21 refits of existing stores
Continued market share •	
growth
Exciting developments in our •	
customer offer
www.dunelm-mill.com •	
number one store by  
turnover following strong 
revenue growth
Continuing investment in •	
infrastructure to underpin 
future growth
Introduction
Having assumed the role of Chief Executive 
during the year, I want to start by paying 
tribute to the significant contribution my 
predecessor Will Adderley has made over 
the 15 years in which he led Dunelm. Will 
is a first class retailer and has built on the 
foundations laid by his father to make 
Dunelm an outstanding business. As the first 
externally-appointed Chief Executive of the 
Group I am delighted to have the opportunity 
to grow and further develop the Group with 
the close support of Will in his new role as 
Executive Deputy Chairman, pursuing our 
clear strategy that has served Dunelm so  
well to date.
Trading
In the context of a consumer environment 
which has continued to be challenging, we 
are satisfied with our trading performance 
over the last financial year. Reflecting the 
opening of 10 new superstores which 
increased overall retail space by over 300,000 
square feet, our total revenue increased by 
9.3% over the financial year. Like-for-like 
sales (calculated by comparing stores which 
have traded throughout the last two financial 
years) were marginally lower by 0.6%, but 
measurably better than the decline of 1.9% 
for the home textiles market as a whole, as 
measured by the British Retail Consortium. 
The environment across the year was 
characterised by new levels of uncertainty, 
both in consumer behaviour and in the rate 
of commodity price inflation, which in cotton 
and man-made alternatives was at a level not 
experienced for a generation.
Against this backdrop we have focused on 
managing the controllable elements of our 
business model, with a particular emphasis on 
operating costs. The growth achieved in gross 
margins and the progress made in the second 
half of the year in cost management were 
particularly pleasing and have led to a 20 basis 
points expansion in operating margins year on 
year, after absorbing the costs associated with 
the expansion of retail space.
Strategy development
We continue to develop the business 
through a strong focus on our four strategic 
priorities. These priorities reflect our intention 
progressively to expand and strengthen 
our customer offer, while at the same time 
increasing scale through store and multi-
channel expansion.
Priority 1 – develop our specialist 
proposition
We continue to invest in the development 
of the Group’s ‘Simply Value for Money’ 
proposition within the £11bn UK homewares 
market. This proposition combines great 
prices, reliable quality, strong product 
availability and friendly and knowledgeable 
service, with our core differentiator of 
offering industry-leading choice.
“We have demonstrated 
through disciplined 
execution of our strategy 
and close operational 
management that our 
business can make good 
progress in challenging 
conditions.” 11 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance Financial statements Business review Business overview  12 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Choice is at the heart of our proposition and 
allows us to attract a broad cross section of 
customers. Under the single Dunelm brand 
we successfully sell entry-level products 
that compete with those sold by grocery 
or discount multiples, through mid-range 
product to premium ranges, that compete 
directly with offers within department 
stores or higher end independent retailers. 
These premium ranges include bedding and 
bathroom merchandise under our owned 
Dorma brand.
Our range of choice has been particularly 
valuable during the past financial year. We 
have seen customer behaviour changing, 
with more affluent customers looking for 
greater value and more value-led customers 
seeking to trade up within our ranges to 
provide a low cost, indulgent treat. 
We continue to use our Miss it Miss Out 
(‘MIMO’) promotions and special buys to 
emphasise Dunelm’s value credentials and 
provide a seasonally relevant feel to the store. 
We have developed a new advertising 
approach during the financial year which 
is focused on brand development and on 
emphasising the Dunelm value proposition. 
This is part of a migration towards a more 
consistent presence in the national media.
Friendly, knowledgeable customer service 
is an increasingly important point of 
differentiation for Dunelm. In order to make 
more colleague time available for customer 
service without increasing overall labour cost, 
we continue to invest in a number of systems 
and process enhancements that reduce the 
level of non-customer facing tasks that are 
performed within store. For example, the 
migration from a labour intensive manual 
process to an automated system for inventory 
ordering is key. Trials completed during the 
year have confirmed its potential to reduce 
activity while maintaining availability and 
we intend to have ordering of over 50% of 
our inventory automated by the end of the 
calendar year.
We are also continuing to invest in training to 
provide our colleagues with the knowledge 
and confidence to engage with customers 
and are using tailored incentives to reward 
good customer service. 
We also see an opportunity to further 
enhance the Dunelm proposition through 
the addition of new services. Dunelm At 
Home is a relatively new service offering 
a free home consultation which allows 
customers to choose bespoke, made to 
measure window treatments in their own 
homes. Recognising that the initial execution 
of this proposition was insufficiently scalable 
without endangering quality of service, we 
have redesigned our processes to ensure 
high quality delivery and a second pilot of 
this service has been launched in three stores 
since the year end.
Priority 2 – develop the store portfolio
The Group operates from two formats. 
The vast majority of stores operate as out 
of town superstores averaging 30,000 
square feet, where Dunelm’s market leading 
range, breadth and depth stands out in 
a sector that is still characterised by small 
independent retailers and is best delivered to 
our customers. We also trade from a limited 
number of smaller high street locations where 
there are no suitable out of town alternatives.
We opened ten new superstores in the year 
(one being a relocation), over 300,000 square 
feet of selling space. As at the year-end, 
our superstore chain comprised 103 stores 
providing 3.1m square feet of selling space. 
The high street chain totalled nine, after  
we closed one shop during the year upon 
lease expiry.
Our recent openings continue to trade well 
and deliver strong returns on invested capital. 
We estimate that, on a discounted cash flow 
basis, the average payback period for stores 
opened in the last three financial years will be 
approximately 30 months. This performance 
enables us to acquire further space with 
confidence that we will continue to deliver 
our targeted payback period for new stores 
of 36 months, even allowing for potential 
cannibalisation of revenue and potentially 
higher costs associated with operating in  
the south east. 
Despite the lack of fresh retail development 
across the UK, we have opened a further 
store since the year-end in Dartford and are 
contractually committed to 13 more units, 
two of which are relocations of existing 
superstores to significantly enhanced trading 
locations. We also continue to use our strong 
balance sheet to acquire interests in freeholds 
where, for example, we wish to secure long 
term tenure or avoid onerous lease clauses. 
Our committed pipeline of stores, which we 
aim to add to, will provide further growth 
over the next 12 to 18 months as we expand 
towards our target for national coverage in 
the UK of between 150 and 200 superstores.  13 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements
We continue to invest in a programme 
of store refits to improve the shopping 
environment in our existing stores. These 
refits enhance revenue by introducing new 
ranges, for example kitchen concept or arts 
and crafts, and improve the overall shopping 
experience, for example through better 
department adjacencies or through the 
introduction of a Pausa coffee shop. 
Through new and refitted stores, we now 
have Dorma sub-shops in 53 stores; our arts 
and crafts offer is present in 79 stores; and 
our extended kitchen offer, now divided 
between cooking, dining and utility sub-
shops, is in 50 stores. 
Our Pausa coffee shop, now present in  
58 stores, provides both an additional  
reason to visit for new customers and 
increases dwell time. Our confidence that 
Pausa fits with our ‘Simply Value for Money’ 
proposition was reinforced during the year 
when it won the coveted Coffee Shop 
Sandwich Retailer of the Year at the British 
Sandwich Association awards.
During the year we developed a lower cost 
refit alternative, more suitable to newer or 
smaller footprint stores, and have reviewed 
the costs associated with all refit activities 
to ensure that capital is focused on those 
areas which deliver greatest financial returns. 
This review has reduced the average cost 
of a major refit by approximately 25% to 
around £0.6m, whilst a medium refit requires 
substantially lower investment (c£0.1m).
We completed eight major refits in the last 
financial year (2010 – nine) as well as a 
significant number of ‘medium’ refits.
Through this ongoing refit programme,  
49 stores (almost 50% of the superstore 
chain) are either new or have benefited from 
a major refit in the last three financial years.
Priority 3 – grow multi-channel
It is clear from the general increase in multi-
channel revenues across UK retail and from 
our own customer research that enthusiasm 
for the convenience and value that multi-
channel shopping provides continues to 
grow. Enhancing our on-line offer and 
extending our multi-channel presence is 
therefore an investment priority. 
This level of enthusiasm is illustrated by 
the number of visitors to our websites and 
their average spend which, at over £50, 
is approximately twice the level achieved 
through store transactions. Dunelm-mill.
com is our biggest shop window allowing 
the full range to be viewed and researched 
by existing customers, and providing the 
opportunity to extend our reach and establish 
brand awareness with new customers. 
During the year our investment included 
a major refresh of our website to provide 
a more contemporary, functional and user 
friendly shopping experience. Responding  
to customer feedback, this included 
significant improvements to the key home 
and landing pages and the streamlining  
of the checkout process. 
Sales from our on-line businesses (www.
dunelm-mill.com and www.dorma.co.uk) 
have continued to grow strongly over the last 
financial year. As a result of the investment 
made, the direct channel is now ranked as 
our number one store in sales terms.
During the year we invested in a dedicated 
warehouse facility for our top 4,000 selling 
lines on the web for home delivery. This 
investment increased on-line availability, 
particularly for premium delivery options, 
while eliminating the requirement for 
expensive store picking activity previously 
used to service these sales. 
Significant development is under way to 
deliver a further step-change improvement 
in the convenience of our multi-channel 
proposition. Such improvements will not only 
improve customer experience but will also 
reduce operating costs. 
In the first half of the forthcoming 
financial year we intend to offer increased 
convenience through a true ‘Reserve and 
Collect’ model as well as launching a mobile-
friendly website. Through linking individual 
store stock files to the web, customers will 
be able to check availability and reserve each 
of over 20,000 products prior to visiting the 
store to collect their purchase at a time  
of their convenience on the same day  
or beyond.  14 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Chief Executive’ s review continued
“We continue to invest in physical 
systems and human infrastructure 
in order to strengthen the current 
business and provide a sound 
foundation for our future growth.” 
Through reducing customer waiting time and 
eliminating logistics costs, this development 
will represent a major improvement 
compared with our existing proposition, 
where customers currently reserve centrally 
held stock for delivery to their local store  
for collection. 
The web will also play an increasing part in 
our overall marketing strategy with digital 
advertising planned to form a much more 
significant part of our overall advertising 
and customer engagement plan. As shown 
by the 13,000 customer recommendations 
on our site, of which two-thirds achieve 
the highest 5 Star rating, our customers are 
highly engaged with the Dunelm brand and 
products. Our recent launches on Facebook 
where 5,000 customers now follow us after 
only five weeks, and on Twitter, are part of 
a broader social media strategy which will 
further deepen this relationship. 
Priority 4 – develop and exploit our 
infrastructure
We continue to invest in our physical, and 
systems infrastructure and in our people, in 
order to strengthen the current business and 
provide a sound foundation for our future 
growth. Specifically, we continue to extract 
further benefits from our IT systems, enabling 
us to improve stock control and make in-store 
processes more efficient. 
The year saw two key developments that 
have strengthened our logistics infrastructure. 
We have doubled the space available at 
our Stoke warehouse, to 500,000 square 
feet and successfully transitioned to a new 
third party carrier to operate the delivery of 
merchandise from UK-based suppliers to our 
stores. These developments will enable us to 
accommodate future growth either in new 
stores or in the proportion of product that  
we source directly from overseas suppliers. 
Development of our new head office near 
to our existing base in Syston, Leicestershire 
was completed shortly after the year-end and 
the new building was officially opened by 
Bill Adderley (our founder and honorary Life 
President) together with his wife Jean on  
8 September 2011. We will retain our existing 
head office for a number of operational uses, 
such as the central stockholding of fabric and 
a photo studio to enhance product imagery 
on our websites.
We also continue to enhance our 
organisational capacity and capability 
through recruitment into a number of key 
management roles. The existing Operating 
Board was strengthened during the year 
through the addition of a Buying and 
Merchandise Director, and the first half of 
the current financial year will see the further 
addition of a Chief Operating Officer and a 
dedicated Director of Multi-Channel. 
Summary & Outlook
While we anticipate that the consumer 
environment will remain challenging 
through the current financial year, we have 
demonstrated, through disciplined execution 
of our strategy and close operational 
management, that our business can  
make good progress in these conditions. 
Our focus on constantly improving our 
customer offer has allowed us to gain market 
share while expanding gross margins; at the 
same time our future growth prospects have 
been enhanced through strengthening the 
pipeline of new stores and the continuing 
development of our multi-channel footprint. 
The Group’s financial position remains robust 
and the trading business is strongly cash 
generative, readily financing the investment 
required for our envisaged growth. While 
retaining a preference for capital flexibility, 
our reduction in dividend cover to 2.5x and 
our intention to grow future dividends in line 
with earnings reflect the Board’s confidence 
in the future development of the Group.
Nick Wharton
Chief Executive
15 September 2011 15 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance Financial statements Business review Business overview 
