 Governance Financial statements Business review Business overview
Overview
Against the background of the UK economy 
which has continued to put pressure on both 
consumer confidence and expenditure, during 
the last financial year the business has made 
further strong strategic progress and delivered 
a robust trading performance. 
We remain focused on close operational 
management, while investing confidently in the 
future growth of the business. This investment, 
consistent with our four strategic priorities, 
centres on the further strengthening of our 
market leading customer proposition, while at 
the same time increasing scale through store 
and multi-channel expansion. 
Our total revenue increased by 12.1% with 
like-for-like sales (calculated by comparing 
stores which have traded throughout the last 
two financial years) growing by 3.1%, 
considerably above the home textiles market  
as measured by the British Retail Consortium. 
The rest of our revenue growth was delivered 
through the store development programme 
which over the course of the year contributed 
14 new superstores, including two relocations.
Our strong trading performance combined with 
disciplined cost and inventory management has 
delivered a 30 basis points expansion in 
operating margin year on year. Furthermore, 
despite continued investment in new stores and 
the associated infrastructure to support further 
growth, the business remains highly cash 
generative allowing the opportunity to return 
capital of £65.8m to our shareholders in 
addition to offering a 22% increase in the  
annual dividend.
Chief Executive’s review
Nick Wharton
Chief Executive
Strategy development
We continue to invest in and develop the 
business with a strong focus on our four 
strategic priorities. 
Priority 1 – develop our specialist 
proposition
The UK homewares market is estimated by 
Verdict Research to be worth approximately 
£11bn. Within this fragmented market, where 
approximately 30% of sales remain with small 
independent operators, Dunelm’s market 
leading proposition is built on our core 
differentiator of widest choice, offering the 
broadest price spectrum of quality products, 
supported by strong availability and friendly 
knowledgeable service.
Our range and choice advantage has been 
particularly important over the last financial  
year with the Dunelm ‘Simply Value for Money’ 
proposition appealing to a wide cross-section 
of customers. Our broad price architecture is 
mirrored across each of our core categories: 
from our entry price position which competes 
with products offered by grocers and discount 
multiples but at higher quality, through a 
number of mid-market options up to our highest 
quality products associated with department 
stores and higher-end independent retailers but 
at keener prices. 
This positioning of higher quality at comparable 
entry-level prices and comparable quality at 
keener prices for mid-market and premium 
products, has helped to maintain existing 
footfall and attract new customers during the 
past financial year. 
9
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012 10 11
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
The majority of products in our stores 
carry Dunelm branding. However, 
proprietary brands such as Fogarty and 
Brabantia are an important complement 
to the offer and, reflecting our increased 
scale within the market, we are frequently 
able to stock branded products on an 
exclusive basis. Our owned brand Dorma 
re-enforces our quality credentials, 
particularly in bedding and bathroom 
categories, and we are very pleased with 
the progress made with our in-house 
developed Spectrum brand. Spectrum  
is used as a common brand for our 
contemporary bright coloured ranges 
across a number of categories, 
encouraging customers to broaden  
their basket as they adopt a specific 
colour look in a given room. Spectrum  
is now present on over 300 products 
across the offer. 
We continue constantly to re-invigorate our 
offer to ensure it remains contemporary, 
fresh and relevant. Through two seasonal 
refreshes we change approximately 25%  
of our ranges each year; Special Buys  
and Miss it Miss Out (‘MIMO’) promotions 
emphasise Dunelm’s value credentials and 
provide a seasonal feel to the store. 
Increasing awareness of the Dunelm 
brand remains a clear priority. Having 
refreshed our advertising during the year 
to provide a clearer and more consistent 
image we have continued to move away 
from local media and increase our 
presence in the national press. We have 
also significantly increased our digital 
marketing and social media activity, the 
latter being centred on Facebook, Twitter 
and Pinterest. Much of this increase in 
marketing activity has been funded by 
buying efficiencies.
Awareness and recognition of the quality 
of our customer offer is improving both 
with customers and specialist media. 
Specifically during the year we were 
delighted to be voted ‘Homewares 
Retailer of the Year’ by the readers of 
House Beautiful magazine. 
Autumn 2012 will see the next phase of 
our brand awareness activity with the trial 
of a full catalogue. We believe the 200 
page A4 catalogue will clearly illustrate 
our range breadth, quality and value.  
The distribution of the planned 700,000 
print run will be biased towards the 
introduction of the Dunelm proposition  
to new customers.
Re-assigning colleague time in store from 
non-customer facing tasks to providing 
customers with knowledgeable, friendly 
service provides another important point 
of further differentiation for Dunelm.  
Our activities in this regard, both in terms 
of task elimination and re-investment  
of the freed-up time are tangible, 
measurable and targeted. For example, 
during the year we have extended system 
based automatic replenishment to over 
60% of our products, replacing manual 
store ordering. The proportion of inventory 
checked for quantity and quality in the 
distribution centre has also increased, 
replacing time consuming in-store 
processes. We will expand both of these 
initiatives further during the coming year. 
Specific departmental rotas have been 
created to ensure that high service areas 
of the store – such as our made to 
measure curtain service – are always 
staffed during periods of higher footfall. 
Product awareness and knowledge 
amongst our colleagues remains a priority 
and we continue to invest in training to 
this end.
Our Dunelm At Home service, through 
which customers can select bespoke, 
made to measure curtains and other 
window treatments via a free home 
consultation, is now available from an 
expanded trial of 10 stores and is 
achieving good levels of customer 
satisfaction. 
Priority 2 – develop the store 
portfolio
Dunelm trades from two store formats. 
The bulk of the portfolio is represented by 
out-of-town superstores, with our average 
new store footprint now targeted towards 
30,000 square feet of retail space.  
This enables us to offer over 20,000 
homewares products with the depth  
of range and availability that customers 
expect from a specialist retailer. Our trial 
of smaller format stores continues in order 
for us to learn more about customer 
reaction and profitability at this scale. We 
also trade profitably from nine smaller 
high street locations where there are 
currently no suitable out-of-town 
alternatives.
In the last financial year we opened over 
400,000 square feet of selling space 
through fourteen new superstores  
(two being relocations) taking our 
superstore chain to 115 stores at the year 
end, providing 3.4 million square feet of 
selling space in total. Maintaining this 
strong momentum, since the end of the 
year we have opened a further four stores 
with openings in Cambridge, Oxford, and 
Barnstaple, and one relocation to deliver  
a full customer offer in Telford. A further 9 
new stores are contractually committed.
During the financial year we have updated 
our catchment analysis to reflect changes 
in demography and our latest 
understanding of catchment size from  
our 34 new store openings over the past 
three years. This modeling has confirmed 
that, despite the anticipated growth of our 
multi-channel sales, our mature UK 
superstore portfolio will consist of 
approximately 200 stores, at the top end 
of our previously indicated range.
We have until now targeted all investment in 
new store openings to achieve discounted 
cash flow payback of 36 months. We have 
consistently beaten this target and indeed 
the average payback for stores opened in 
the last three financial years is 
approximately 31 months. Nevertheless, 
as our portfolio becomes more mature we 
recognise that some locations will offer 
lower returns and going forward, we 
anticipate that a proportion of new stores 
will be targeted to achieve 48 months 
payback. This payback profile will allow 
for some cannibalisation of revenues from 
existing stores, whilst still delivering a very 
attractive return on invested capital.
Our refit programme covered 15 
superstores this year of which four were 
‘major’ refits. The programme is designed 
to improve the shopping environment in 
our existing stores and create a full and 
consistent customer experience under the 
Dunelm brand. These refits increase sales 
by introducing new product ranges such 
as Dorma sub-shops (now present in 73 
stores) and extended kitchen concepts 
(93 stores), and improves the overall 
shopping experience, for example 
through better ranging, space allocation 
or department layouts.
Chief Executive’s review continued Governance Financial statements
10 11
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
Business review Business overview
In addition, our Pausa coffee shops are 
now in 74 stores, providing an additional 
reason for customers to visit and 
increasing their engagement and  
dwell time. 
As a result of this continued investment 
our portfolio is highly contemporary with 
50% of the superstore chain either new  
or having benefited from a major refit over 
the past three years. 
Priority 3 – grow multi-channel
UK consumer behaviour continues to  
evolve and a greater on-line confidence, 
enthusiasm and capability have created  
a shift in shopping preferences. Consistent 
with this, Dunelm customers are embracing 
the convenience and value of multi-
channel shopping with two thirds of total 
shopping visits now involving some 
element of on-line activity (browsing, 
research or purchasing) through our 
websites, www.dunelm-mill.com and 
www.dorma.co.uk.
In the year we successfully launched a full 
Reserve and Collect (‘R&C’) model that 
links our store stock files to the web in real 
time, enabling our customers to check 
availability and order from over 16,000 
products. R&C customers, who represent 
over a third of multi-channel revenues, 
pay for their reserved products on 
collection in store. This model lends itself 
particularly well to our product range 
which customers will often wish to touch 
and feel before committing to a purchase, 
and at the same time creates a clear 
opportunity for add-on or incremental 
sales during their visit.
Multi-channel functionality was further 
enhanced through the launch, in January,  
of our dedicated mobile friendly site. This 
development gives the increasing volume  
of new and existing customers who use a 
range of android devices better access to 
our specialist multi-channel offer.
We have continued to invest significantly 
in both website development and in digital 
marketing, where returns remain highly 
attractive. Through these investments the 
number of visitors to our websites has 
increased by over 50% during the year, 
whilst enhancements to our offer and 
customer experience on the web have 
also led to improvements in conversion.
As a consequence of all the above our 
multi-channel revenues have continued  
to grow strongly, representing 2.5% of 
revenues over the full financial year and 
approximately 3% in the final quarter.
Despite the progress we have made, 
there are a number of areas where our 
multi-channel proposition could be  
further enhanced and this provides a  
clear opportunity for further revenue 
growth. Key within this are improvements 
to our delivery proposition to provide 
speed and choice in line with market 
norms. Achieving this will require technical 
enhancements to our site and the 
expansion of our logistics operations. 
These significant developments are 
targeted during the current financial year. 
Following a successful trial of extended 
inventory within furniture, we are targeting 
further web exclusive ranges. We are also 
confident that our e:marketing and 
promotional capability will be significantly 
enhanced from a suite of developments 
scheduled to be in place before our peak 
trading period. 
 
Priority 4 – develop and exploit our 
infrastructure
The Group’s continued success is reliant 
upon a resilient, functionally rich and 
dynamic business infrastructure across IT 
systems, distribution facilities and people 
resources. Over the course of the year 
investment in our IT systems has enabled 
us to improve stock control, make in-store 
processes more efficient, and deliver an 
enhanced customer offer through Reserve 
and Collect. 
The year saw the completion and 
occupation of our new head office in 
Syston, Leicestershire, which was opened 
in September 2011. We have retained our 
former head office which now operates as 
our central fabric warehouse, a photo 
studio, a mock-shop and acts as a key 
business recovery backup facility.
The capacity and capability of the Group 
has been further strengthened by 
recruitment of experienced retail 
professionals into the key new roles of 
Chief Operating Officer and Director of 
Multi-Channel. These positions allow a 
greater focus and specialism within an 
expanded Operating Board. 
Finally, we have begun a programme of 
investment to upgrade both our customer 
facing transactional till systems and our 
central ERP system. 
Summary and outlook
Dunelm has delivered robust trading 
results in a demanding retail environment, 
with our strong focus on retailing 
excellence leading to increased market 
share on a like for like basis. We have also 
made good progress with our strategic 
development, scaling our business 
through new stores, multi-channel and 
strengthened infrastructure, while 
continuing to improve our specialist 
customer proposition. I would like to 
thank all my colleagues for their hard work 
and commitment in achieving this.
Our financial position remains extremely 
strong which, together with the Board’s 
confidence in Dunelm’s future growth 
prospects, enables us to propose an 
increase in the dividend ahead of 
earnings, together with a return of excess 
capital equal to 32.5p per share.
 
Looking ahead, we remain cautious of the 
UK consumer environment and its impact 
on our trading in the near term. However, 
with a strong new store pipeline, good 
momentum in multi-channel and a  
‘Simply Value for Money’ proposition that 
continues to resonate with a wide range 
of customers, we remain confident in the 
future growth prospects for the business.’
Nick Wharton
Chief Executive
13 September 2012
