 Governance Financial statements Business review Business overview
I am delighted once again to introduce Dunelm’s annual report 
by announcing a year of strong business performance. The 
management team continues to focus on our well-established 
strategy for developing the business, as well as keeping tight 
control on day to day operations. As a result, Dunelm has posted 
good revenue growth in the latest financial year, accompanied  
by further improvements in profitability and cash generation. 
More details on this performance are given by Nick Wharton,  
our Chief Executive, in his report.
As a result of the continuing strong business performance, the 
Board is able to recommend an increase in the final dividend to 
10.0p per share (2011: 8.0p), bringing the total dividend for the 
year to 14.0p (2011: 11.5p). In addition, the Board proposes 
returning £65.8m of excess capital to shareholders. The 
mechanism for this is explained by David Stead, our Finance 
Director, in his report and full details will be provided in a 
separate circular to shareholders.
The Board has evolved over the last financial year and now 
includes a new Non-Executive Director, Matt Davies. Matt was 
appointed in February and is already proving to be an excellent 
addition to your Board. His recent experience leading a similar 
sized, and equally young and dynamic multiple retailer has 
added to our perspectives on a number of operational and 
strategic issues including customer behaviour, supply chain 
development and colleague engagement.
Our Executive team is working very well following an exemplary 
transition of the Chief Executive role from Will Adderley to Nick 
Wharton. Nick took on the role of Chief Executive in February 2011, 
and we are benefiting greatly from his extensive executive 
experience, and the skill he is deploying in further developing our 
business. He is succeeding in building on the hungry and dynamic 
culture in key parts of our business, adding the important 
professionalism, precision and repeatability needed as we grow  
into a larger organisation.
As one of the leading retailers of his generation, Will Adderley 
was an outstanding Chief Executive of Dunelm for 15 years.  
His desire to move to his current role as Executive Deputy 
Chairman reflects his determination to continue to drive 
Dunelm’s success by dedicating himself to activities – such  
as product development and sourcing – which are the hallmark 
of Dunelm’s appeal to shoppers and where he has special 
expertise. He is clearly relishing his new role and adding 
enormous value to the business.
Looking ahead, we have a range of exciting development 
initiatives and continue to see significant potential to expand  
our store portfolio further within the UK. We remain confident  
in our ‘Simply Value for Money’ offer and look forward to further 
profitable growth.
Geoff Cooper
Chairman
13 September 2012
Business review
Chairman’s statement
Geoff Cooper
Chairman
7
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012 7
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012 ‘We remain focused on close 
operational management, while 
investing confidently in the future 
growth of the business.’
Business highlights
 > 14 new superstore openings 
(including two relocations) and 
major refits of 15 existing stores
 > Continued market share growth
 > Exciting developments in our 
customer offer
 > www.dunelm-mill.com number 
one store by turnover following 
strong revenue growth
 > Continuing investment in 
infrastructure to underpin  
future growth
8
Dunelm Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
