 12 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
“We remain focused on close 
operational management, while 
investing confidently in the 
future growth of the business.”
Highlights
 > Continued market share growth – now 
market leader
 > 14 new superstore openings (including two 
relocations and one reopening) 
 > 80% growth in multi-channel revenue
 > Continuing investment in infrastructure 
to underpin future growth
 > Evolution of Dunelm brand ‘There’s no place 
like Dunelm’
6.9%	
M a r k e t	l e a d i n g	s h a r e	o f	t h e	U K	h o m e w a r e s	m a r k e t
Chief Executive’s review 13 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information
N i c k 	 W ha r t o n 	 Ch ie f 	 E x ec u t ive
Overview
Against the background of continued pressures on the 
consumer throughout the last financial year, the business 
delivered a robust trading performance and made  
good progress against both its operational and  
strategic objectives. 
We remain focused on close operational management and 
on enhancing our customer experience, while investing 
confidently in the future growth of the business. This 
investment, consistent with our four strategic priorities, 
centres on the further strengthening of our specialist 
proposition, while at the same time increasing scale 
through store portfolio and multi-channel expansion. 
Reflecting the benefit of a particularly strong store 
opening programme over the last two financial years, our 
total revenue for the year increased by 12.2%. Within this, 
like-for-like sales (calculated by comparing stores which 
have traded throughout the last two financial years) grew 
by 1.7% as we continue to gain share in a market which we 
believe to be broadly flat. During the year we opened 14 
new superstores, including 2 relocations and the 
reopening of our Coventry store after a major fire in 2011.
Our growth has meant that during the past year we have 
become, according to Verdict Research, market leader  
for the first time with a share of 6.9% of the UK 
homewares market.
Disciplined inventory management and continued 
progress with direct sourcing delivered a 40 basis points 
expansion in gross margin year on year. With operating 
costs growing slightly ahead of sales, reflecting our 
ongoing investment in the customer proposition as well as 
building capability across the business for longer-term 
growth, our operating margin remained at a similar level to 
the previous year, at 15.7%. 
The business remains highly cash generative, readily 
funding the capital requirements associated with our 
growth as well as allowing a 14% year on year increase in 
the level of the ordinary dividend for the year. In addition 
we have been able to announce a special dividend 
totalling £50.7m to be distributed to shareholders in 
October 2013. This reflects our ongoing approach of 
periodically distributing surplus cash to shareholders.
Strategy development
We have continued to make good progress with our four 
strategic priorities.
Priority 1 – develop our specialist proposition
The UK homewares market is estimated by Verdict 
Research to be worth approximately £11bn. As market 
leaders, our key differentiator is industry-leading choice, 
offering quality products over the broadest price 
spectrum. This is supported by strong availability, 
customer convenience through an established multi-
channel proposition and friendly knowledgeable service.
Our range and choice are complemented by exceptional 
value for money at all price points together with strong 
brand representation. The Dunelm brand, with its core 
attributes of trust and value, is applied to the majority of 
products across the proposition. In addition we stock a 
number of key owned brands including Dorma, Hotel and 
Spectrum alongside major proprietary brands such as 
Fogarty, Tempur, Kenwood and Brabantia.
Our broad price architecture is mirrored across each of 
our core categories and creates a proposition that is 
attractive to a very wide customer set. This positioning 
has continued to help preserve existing footfall and attract 
new customers during the past financial year. The Dunelm 
offer ranges from our entry price position, which 
competes with products offered by grocers and discount 
multiples but at a higher quality, through a number of 
mid-market options, to our highest quality products which 
are comparable with offerings in department stores and 
higher-end independent retailers but at keener prices. 
We continue constantly to evolve our offer to ensure it 
remains contemporary, fresh and relevant. Through two 
seasonal refreshes we change approximately 25% of our 
ranges each year; while Special Buys and Miss It Miss Out 
(‘MIMO’) promotions emphasise Dunelm’s value 
credentials and provide a seasonal feel to the store.
We have a clear opportunity to build further awareness of 
the Dunelm brand. During the year, in addition to 
increasing our presence in the national press and growing 
our social media activity, we invested in our first full 
catalogue. Our initial 200 page edition was distributed to 
700,000 people in autumn 2012 and proved extremely 
effective in showcasing the breadth and authority of the 
Dunelm product offer. We followed this with a spring 
catalogue and plan to build on these successful 
investments with a larger autumn 2013 catalogue which 
will have a distribution of one million copies. 14 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Dunelm Group plc
Our next phase of investment in brand awareness 
incorporates an evolution of the current Dunelm branding. 
This evolution aims to communicate Dunelm’s range 
authority across all homewares categories and to highlight 
our strengths in value, convenience and service. We are 
introducing a new primary strapline of ‘There’s no place 
like Dunelm’, migrating to the more user-friendly domain 
name of www.dunelm.com and will remove our traditional 
‘Mill’ suffix from across the business. Research has shown 
that these changes will be positively received by both 
existing and new customer groups. The new strapline in 
particular is seen as a better reflection of our customers’ 
emotional connection with the home. We will use this 
evolution in our branding to increase brand awareness and 
introduce Dunelm to a wider group of homewares 
shoppers through our first significant TV advertising 
campaign. Subject to performance in pilot, our planned 
investment in this campaign will amount to approximately 
£3m over the current financial year.
Excellent customer service, a high quality in-store 
experience and differentiating services are all important in 
ensuring that our overall customer experience meets the 
promise of the ‘There’s no place like Dunelm’ campaign. 
During the last financial year, we invested across each of 
these dimensions, foremost of which was a significant 
customer service training programme for store colleagues 
– ‘Customer First’. This has been funded largely by 
reassigning colleague time in-store from non-customer 
facing tasks which we have been able to eliminate or 
reduce through better processes and systems. Initial 
results are pleasing in terms of both customer satisfaction, 
where our net promoter score hit new heights after  
the completion of the training and external recognition 
where Dunelm ranked very positively in the most recent 
annual survey of customer service undertaken by  
Which? magazine.
Our Window Treatments offer spanning fabrics, ready-
made and made to measure curtains and blinds is a 
category that relies on high levels of expertise, service and 
customer interaction. During the year we have 
successfully developed and piloted a new, more intuitive 
and interactive system, to support our made to measure 
service and this will be introduced to all stores this autumn 
ahead of our peak window treatments season.
Our Dunelm At Home service, through which customers 
can select bespoke, made to measure curtains and other 
window treatments via a free home consultation, is now 
available from 30 stores, with a further phased roll-out 
planned over the current financial year. Customers of this 
service are rightly demanding and we invest significantly 
in the training and development of our home consultants 
to ensure good levels of customer satisfaction.
Priority 2 – expand our store portfolio
Dunelm trades from two store formats. The bulk of the 
portfolio comprises out-of-town superstores, with our 
average new store footprint now targeted towards 30,000 
square feet of retail space. This space enables us to offer 
over 20,000 homewares products with the depth of range 
and availability that customers expect from a specialist 
retailer. It also accommodates a Pausa coffee shop, now 
present in 92 stores, providing an additional reason for 
customers to visit and increasing their engagement and 
dwell time. In addition to superstores, we also trade 
profitably from nine smaller high street locations where 
there are currently no suitable out-of-town alternatives.
In the last financial year we again opened over 400,000 
square feet of selling space through 14 new superstores 
(two being relocations and one a reopening) taking our 
superstore chain to 126 stores at the year end, providing 
3.8 million square feet of selling space in total. A further 10 
new stores are contractually committed. Following a 
detailed catchment analysis process completed in 2011, 
which sought to incorporate the impact of the anticipated 
growth of our multi-channel sales, we believe our mature 
UK superstore portfolio will consist of approximately 200 
stores. 
Our new stores continue to deliver strong returns on 
invested capital with the average expected discounted 
payback for stores opened in the last three financial years 
being approximately 28 months. We will continue to target 
the majority of our new store openings to achieve 
discounted cash flow payback of 36 months. However, as 
our portfolio becomes more mature our investment 
criteria will need to reflect some cannibalisation of 
revenues from existing stores and going forward we 
anticipate that a proportion of new stores (perhaps  
up to 30%) will be targeted to achieve payback in up  
to 48 months. 
Our refit programme covered 14 superstores this year,  
of which 4 were ‘major’ refits. The programme is designed 
to improve the shopping environment in our existing 
stores and to create a more consistent customer 
experience in terms of space allocation and  
department layouts. 
Chief Executive’s review co nt in ued 15 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements
As a result of this continued investment our portfolio is 
highly contemporary with 42% of the superstore chain 
either new or having benefited from a major refit over the 
past three years. 
Priority 3 – grow multi-channel
In common with trends elsewhere in UK retail, Dunelm 
customers are embracing the convenience and value of 
multi-channel shopping with a significant proportion of 
shopping journeys now involving some element of online 
activity (browsing, research or purchasing) through our 
website, www.dunelm.com.
The last financial year saw continued investment in both 
website development, to enhance the customer 
experience, and in digital marketing where returns remain 
attractive. Our ‘Reserve and Collect’ (‘R&C’) proposition, 
which links our store stock files to the web in real time, 
enables our customers to check availability and order 
from over 16,000 products. This was further enhanced 
during the year to provide for same day collection. R&C 
customers, who represent approximately a third of 
multi-channel revenues, pay for their reserved products 
on collection in store creating a clear opportunity for 
add-on or incremental sales in store. 
Development of the core website included the redesign of 
our homepage as well as key product pages where 
customers ‘land’ following an internet search. We have 
also introduced Paypal as a payment alternative and 
optimised our site for tablet users in response to the rapid 
increase in the number of customers accessing our site 
from these devices. Developments such as expert guides, 
better recommendations for complementary products 
and enhanced alternative images also ensure that our 
website stimulates interest, communicates our expertise 
and provides added value. 
As a consequence of all of the above, our multi-channel 
revenues continued to grow strongly, representing over 
4% of revenues over the full financial year and 
approximately 4.5% in the final quarter.
Our next targeted development will materially improve 
speed and choice within our home delivery offering 
where, despite strong progress elsewhere, our proposition 
remains below benchmark and therefore provides a clear 
opportunity for further improvement and revenue growth. 
The transfer of our fulfilment operation to a scalable 
facility that will enable us to hold stock of approximately 
20,000 lines, each available for next day delivery, is 
progressing well and is anticipated to be fully operational 
prior to peak winter trading.
While, as outlined above, significant enhancement of our 
multi-channel model has been possible on our existing 
web technology platform, our pace of development is 
restricted due to the configuration of the current software. 
Accordingly, we have initiated a programme to upgrade 
the platform and expect this to be completed during the 
second half of the current financial year, representing a 
capital investment of £4–5m. This replatforming will 
deliver a more customer-friendly website as well as 
allowing future developments to be achieved over shorter 
lead times, thus enabling more frequent introductions of 
improved functionality to our customers. 
Following a successful trial of extended inventory  
within furniture, we are targeting further web exclusive 
ranges and will apply our enhanced e:marketing and 
promotional capability to drive awareness of both core 
and extended ranges. 
Priority 4 – develop and exploit our infrastructure
Focused investment in our business infrastructure across 
IT systems, distribution facilities and people resources is a 
key contributor to Dunelm’s continued success and this 
continued in the past year. 
Investment in our IT systems has enabled us to improve 
stock control, make in-store processes more efficient and, 
through the upgrade during the year of our till systems, 
has enabled a better customer experience when they pay 
for their goods. The project to upgrade our enterprise 
wide SAP system is progressing well and is expected to be 
completed this calendar year.
The capacity and capability of the Group has been further 
strengthened by targeted recruitment including a Chief 
Information Officer who joined the business at the start of 
the current financial year. Meaningful headcount increases 
made in our buying, supply and space management teams 
have enabled us to develop product range options such 
that the best performing products within each category 
can be matched to each individual store based on their 
overall space and configuration. This development will 
continue in the current financial year, helping to create a 
more consistent shopping experience for our customers 
and reducing our lifecycle exposure to discontinued 
inventory. 
Summary and outlook
Dunelm delivered robust trading results over the year, in a 
demanding retail environment. We have strengthened our 
specialist proposition, improved customer service in-store 
and increased the profile of our brand. Each of these, 
together with our traditional product strength, has enabled 
us to increase sales on a like-for-like basis. We have also 
made good strategic progress scaling our business through 
new stores and multi-channel and strengthening our 
infrastructure. I would like to thank all my colleagues for their 
hard work and commitment in achieving this.
While recent economic data, particularly the volume of 
housing transactions, may suggest some improvement in 
consumer confidence, a degree of caution in relation to the 
broader UK economic environment remains appropriate. 
Furthermore, the unusually warm summer weather has had a 
temporary dampening effect on recent trading.
With strong plans in place to improve brand awareness and 
to grow Dunelm further through new stores and multi-
channel expansion, we remain confident in the future 
prospects for the business. Combined with our very strong 
financial position, this enables us to pay a special dividend 
equal to 25p per share as well as proposing an increase in 
the ordinary dividend in line with earnings. 
Nick Wharton
Chief Executive
12 September 2013
