 Keith Attwood
Chief Executive Officer
INTRODUCTION
e2v designs and manufactures highly
specialised components and subsystems.
Products fall into the category of either
sensors or electronic tubes and are supplied
to niches within three market sectors.
The electronic tubes product group is
mature, with relatively low growth but high
recurring revenues, as spares account for
approximately 50% of annual sales. In
contrast, the sensors business is driving the
organic sales growth of the business, and 
the establishment of the sensors business
has largely been facilitated by the profits
generated by the electronic tubes business.
Our strategy has four aspects:
• To focus our resources on high growth/
high margin product opportunities in
current and adjacent niche market sectors.
• To extend our scope of supply, where
appropriate, thereby maximising revenues
from established market positions as well
as developing new market positions.
• To acquire complementary businesses
and technologies to accelerate growth.
• To continue our internal focus on
productivity improvements.
e2v is well established with long-term
customer relationships at the heart of the
business. The Company is international in
nature, exporting 75% of sales in 2004/05
from the UK, with operations in the USA,
France and Germany.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
The sensors product group continued to grow
positively overall at over 9.1% year on year 
at reported exchange rates (13.2% at ‘like 
for like’ exchange rates). 
The electronic tubes product group saw
modest growth of 2.2% year on year at ‘like
for like’ exchange rates, but declined by
1.9% at reported exchange rates. 
Whilst the order book for the Group at 
31 March 2005 was £74m, compared with
£78m at 31 March 2004, this was primarily
due to timing issues with the receipt of
programme orders and the practice of placing
multi-year orders in certain sectors, such as
radiotherapy within electronic tubes. Since
year end major contract wins from Dentrix
for dental CCDs and ESA for Space CCDs
have strengthened the order book and our
major radiotherapy OEMs are expected to
place follow-on orders in 2006, as their current
orders placed between 2002 and 2004 are
completed. Overall, the order book represents
normal levels of visibility for this business.
The sensors product group’s order book was
£33.8m (2004: £33.4m) reflecting increases
within the Medical and Science sector. For the
electronic tubes product group the order
book amounted to £40.2m (2004: £44.9m).
The difference year on year reflects the
phasing of radiotherapy orders in the Medical
and Science sector, mentioned above.
The 7.5% growth in operating profit (before
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional
items) is a function of both sales growth 
and our continued attention to internal
efficiencies. Operating profit per employee
increased 7.1% against the prior year.
Gross margins were maintained year on 
year at 34.5% despite the adverse impact 
of exchange rate movement. The US$ to £
average exchange rate weakened from $1.70
to $1.85 between the two reporting periods,
consequently reducing the reported value of
US$ sales, principally to the USA, by £3.7m.
Adjusted earnings per share (earnings
before exceptional items) were up at 
11.07 pence (2004: 10.33 pence) per share. 
This increase positively endorses the twin
track strategy of focusing equally on growth
and internal efficiencies.
Reported earnings per share amounted to
4.59 pence compared with the 2004 figure
of 9.19 pence which reflects the effect of
additional exceptional items reported during
the current year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 4
Chief Executive’s report Net borrowings at 31 March 2005 were
£21.8m (2004: £44.3m), whilst net cash flow
from operating activities, after exceptionals,
was £10.8m (2004: £20.2m). The difference
compared to last year is primarily due to 
the unwinding of a particularly favourable
working capital position at 31 March 2004,
(when the financing of government contracts
was in advance of commitments to suppliers
and extended terms had been negotiated on
capital expenditure contracts) together with
the requirement to fund the flotation costs.
Net cash outflow before financing was
£3.2m (2004: inflow £6.3m), primarily
due to the lower cash flow from operating
activities and exceptional interest payments,
associated with the capital restructuring
prior to the flotation in July 2004.
SENSORS
Sensors product group sales grew by 
9.1% to £48.1m at reported exchange rates
(13.2% at ‘like for like’ exchange rates). 
This growth came across all market sectors,
primarily driven by our high performance
imaging products. The strong growth in this
area more than offset the anticipated
reduction in sales of our Argus
®
fire fighters’
thermal imaging camera, within the
Commercial and Industrial sector, which
benefited in 2004 from an exceptional UK
government procurement programme.
Medical and Science
Sales in this sector continued the strong
performance seen in the first half of the
year, growing by 23% to £15.5m (2004:
£12.5m). Over the last three years, we have
seen in excess of a twofold increase in sales
for this sector.
The growth in 2005 has been dominated by
our continued success in the dental sector,
where customers in the USA and mainland
Europe have been seeking to increase
volumes throughout the second half of the
year. e2v supplies devices used for digital
dental x-ray imaging, which is virtually real-
time and offers lower radiation exposure
when compared to traditional film based
systems. Year on year, we have seen sales
into the dental sector increase by 37% at
reported rates of exchange. This demand
has continued into the first half of 2005,
where we are undertaking actions to expand
capacity at our manufacturing facility.
Product supplied into instrument
manufacturers servicing the needs of life
science companies working on, for example,
drug discovery, has also seen positive
growth of 15% year on year at reported 
rates of exchange.
Aerospace and Defence
Overall, sales in this sector grew by 4.2% to
£16.8m (2004: £16.1m). Significant growth
of 13% was achieved in high performance
imaging but there was an 8% decline for
solid state microwave devices.
The 13% growth in high performance
imaging was largely driven by continued
strong performance in the space and
astronomy sectors as deliveries were made
to a number of European programmes. The
development phase of the European Space
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 5
X-RAY DENTAL SENSORS
e2v was contracted in 2003 by US-based
Dentrix Dental Systems to design a
customised high-performance x-ray dental
CCD sensor that was easy to position 
in the patient’s mouth, and offered
improved patient comfort. e2v designed,
manufactured and delivered the new
dental CCD to the specified size,
performance, image quality and cost
requirements. Dentrix saw e2v’s CCD and
Scintillator technology as providing them
with the performance required to give
them a leading position in the market. 
Dentrix’s new system, the ImageRAYi,
offers advantages over traditional film
based systems including provision of data,
which is virtually real-time, has lower
radiation exposure and improved data
storage and transmission. To underline the
success of the system e2v has recently
been awarded a new contract with Dentrix
for US$5.7m (£3.0m). 
Dentrix Dental Systems is part of the 
Henry Schein Inc. health care group, one 
of the largest providers of software and
other technology-based products and
services for dental practices in North
America and Europe, serving over 475,000
customers with 90,000+ products in more
than 125 countries. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 6
Chief Executive’s report continued
EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY TO LAUNCH OUR LARGE AREA CCD SENSORS
Artist’s impression Agency (ESA) star mapping programme,
GAIA, was completed in the second half 
and we were extremely pleased to win the
contract in June 2005 for the first phase of
the production element of this programme
for €14.3m. Cameras using our ultra high
sensitivity L3Vision™ devices achieved over
£1.0m of sales for the year to this sector, a
ten-fold increase against 2004, primarily 
for surveillance applications. 
The 8% decline in sales of our solid state
microwave devices used in defence
applications reflects the completion of 
a number of relatively small individual
programmes, rather than a material change
in our competitive position. New orders
continue to be booked for tranche 2 of the
Typhoon (Eurofighter) programme, and 
there has been significant bidding activity
associated with our electronic safety and
arming unit (ESAU) technology for a number
of different missile platforms.
Commercial and Industrial
Overall, sales in this sector grew by 2.7%
to £15.9m (2004: £15.5m).
Continued progress is being made in our
component supply into Adaptive Cruise
Control systems in the automotive sector.
Sales doubled year on year, to a modest
£1.0m. This market remains very much in its
infancy, and is anticipated to double again
in the current year. Also in automotive we
saw positive growth in our microwave car
alarm business, acquired the previous year,
and this acquisition contributed £1.4m of
sales growth. We were also successful in
winning a new customer in the form of
Daimler Chrysler. Whilst we supplied this
technology to MG Rover, annual sales in
2004/05 amounted to less than £0.2m.
Their outstanding liability at the year end 
is not material.
Following the particularly large order from
the UK government in 2004, sales of our
Argus
®
* thermal imaging camera were 37%
down at £4.9m (2004: £7.7m). This was
partly offset by growth in our Radio
Evacuation and Distress System (REDS), 
also servicing the fire fighter/emergency
services market, which achieved sales of
£1.7m (2004: £1.0m). We are partnering
with one of the world’s leading suppliers 
of breathing apparatus (BA) to supply our 
sub-system integrated into a BA platform. 
To date, we are achieving sales in the USA
and are currently engaged in a development
programme with this partner to launch a
system for operation in Europe and Asia during
the latter part of the current financial year.
ELECTRONIC TUBES
Electronic tube product group sales at
£52.4m were £1.0m below last year’s level
at reported rates of exchange, but grew a
modest 2.2% at ‘like for like’ exchange rates. 
This was consistent with the half year, where
the impact of defence spending cuts in the UK
and a more difficult environment for export
licences within Aerospace and Defence, was 
not completely offset by the growth achieved
in the Commercial and Industrial sector.
Medical and Science
Overall, sales in this sector showed growth
of 0.8% to £18.2m (2004: £18.0m).
In the radiotherapy sector we saw flat revenues
for our Magnetron electronic tubes. This
reflects a degree of overstocking by some of
our OEM customers in 2004 and the weakness
of the US$. Our compact modulator product
supplied to TomoTherapy Inc, delivered
strong growth, achieving sales in excess of
£1.3m (2004: £0.4m). This US-based customer
continues to achieve market success with its
unique radiotherapy system. There are now
over 30 systems in clinical operation and
many more being commissioned. 
Also in this sector, we saw positive year 
on year growth of equipment supplied 
into a microwave endometrial ablation
application, which is a quick and relatively
simple alternative treatment for menorrhagia
(excessive menstrual bleeding). 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 7
The European Space Agency will launch 
its cornerstone mission, GAIA, in 2011. 
The mission’s aim is to precisely map 
our galaxy, the Milky Way, by logging 
the position, colour and radial velocity of 
1 billion stars and over 100,000 objects in
the solar system. GAIA will continuously
scan the Milky Way looking deeper into our
galaxy than humanity has ever seen before
and creating the largest, most accurate 3D
map to date. It is hoped that as many as
10,000 new planets will be discovered. 
This £9.6m three-year flight phase 
contract was signed in June 2005 and is the
culmination of a successful two-year £1.3m
contract for the design and development 
of a custom CCD image sensor specifically
tailored to the needs of the GAIA
programme. The GAIA project will involve
the manufacture in significant volumes of
some of the highest performance large
area CCD image sensors ever produced. 
A subcontractor selected by ESA, will
ultimately assemble the CCD image
sensors into the largest focal plane ever
built and flown in space. This contract
clearly confirms e2v’s position as one 
of the world’s pre-eminent suppliers of
specialised imaging technology to the
space market. 
*Argus – Trademark licensed from Argus Industries, Inc. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 8
Chief Executive’s report continued
Whilst sales more than doubled to £1.5m, 
as the customer launched the product in the
USA, we do not expect similar performance
levels in the current financial year now that
initial demand has been met.
Investment worldwide in the next generation
of major scientific facilities in national
laboratories over the next decade will be
significant. During the last 12 months e2v
has secured early engagement in a number
of key projects. Within a collaboration
agreement with Daresbury Laboratory 
in the UK, the first prototypes of a high
frequency Inductive Output Tube (IOT) 
were supplied to the £150m 4GLS (Fourth
Generation Light Source) project. This
accelerator-based light source, the very 
first of perhaps a dozen of its kind in 
the world, will provide intense infra-red,
ultraviolet and soft x-ray radiation for 
the study of protein folding and chemical
reactions/molecular interactions in real time.
e2v also won the first contract for a new class
of RF Klystron for Cornell University in the
USA to drive the injector LINAC that will feed
into their version of a 4GLS system. 
Aerospace and Defence
Overall, sales in this sector showed a decline
of some 19% to £10.8m (2004: £13.4m).
Our electronic tube business to the defence
sector has suffered from the UK government’s
decision to scale back the Tornado fleet and
other radar platforms. In addition, we have
continued to see a tighter export licence
environment, for certain Asian territories,
which has further constrained sales.
More positively, during the second half of 
the year we won a contract for the supply 
of travelling wave tubes (TWTs) for the
Typhoon towed decoy system and have won
all contracts let to date for this platform.
This strengthens our position with North
American system integrators, Raytheon 
and BAE Systems, for the next generation 
US Navy and Airforce fast jet towed decoy
programmes. We expect to see further
progress on these large projects during 
the latter part of the current financial year
although the timing of defence related
projects is never certain.
Commercial and Industrial
Overall, sales in this sector showed growth
of 6.4% to £23.5m (2004: £22.1m).
Growth was achieved across a number 
of different sectors, including industrial
applications and marine radar.
We supply radio frequency (RF) sources to 
a number of OEMs that manufacture marine
radars for commercial and leisure vessels.
We have seen over 15% growth in this
sector to £4.3m (2004: £3.7m), and growth
is continuing into the current financial 
year. A project is well underway to increase
manufacturing capacity to match demand.
Sales in high power switching products used
in broadcast, industrial heating and laser
applications have grown 25%, year on year,
to £3.1m (2004: £2.5m) across many
individual customers.
We have also been successful in strengthening
our position with key European OEMs for
power tubes in industrial applications and
here we have seen growth of over 11%
to £3.8m (2004: £3.5m) as well as the
introduction of an upgraded high efficiency
amplifier for terrestrial broadcast primarily
for the US, UHF TV transmitter market.
e2v has been developing and producing
microwave components for the automotive
industry that enhance driver comfort and
vehicle security for a number of years. 
The most notable innovation during this
period is e2v’s patented Graded Gap
Gunn Diode (G3D), which is a critical
component in radar sensors used 
for Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC)
applications. e2v’s G3D generates the
millimetre wave power which enables 
the long-range radar sensor to detect the
position and speed of objects in front 
of the vehicle and adjust the vehicle’s
speed to maintain a safe driving distance. 
Currently e2v is involved in a joint
industry project called SLIMSENS (Short
and Long Range Integrated Multifunction
Radar and Communications Sensors),
which is developing the next generation
in driver safety. This next generation
technology could provide capabilities
such as pedestrian detection, improved
lane adherence, automated hands-free
motorway driving, and the ability to 
stop and start the car completely, 
while in traffic.  
ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 9
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
In the year ended 31 March 2005, 75%
(2004: 69%) of sales were derived from
exports to over 50 different countries.
Across the business, continued strong
performance in the United States reflects
our ability to win business in the face of US
domestic competition. Sales to the USA at
£35.8m (2004: £30.3m), represent a year 
on year growth of over 18% at reported
exchange rates, and 30% at ‘like for like’
rates. This remains by far our largest 
single geographic market, but our success
increases our exposure to transactional risk
associated with exchange rate fluctuations.
Sales in the UK were £25.1m, representing 
a decline year on year of some 16%,
primarily associated with the reduction 
in supply of electronic tubes to the UK
defence industry and the completion of the
one-off UK government purchase of thermal
imaging cameras.
In the rest of the world, sales grew to
£39.7m (2004: £37.4m), representing a 6%
increase year on year. In addition to our
existing routes to market, in January 2005
we established a business development
office in China to help e2v technologies
make the most of the opportunities created 
by this rapidly expanding economy.
We continue to focus strongly on improving
customer access to our distributors and
developing the skills in our distributor base
to better serve those customers. We provide
regular newsletters updating our partners 
on worldwide business developments, and
bi-annually we bring our distributors together
to share e2v’s strategy, key targets and
forthcoming product developments. All of
our distributors have access to a tailored
‘extranet’ to obtain, for example, sales
collateral, including product presentations.
We continue to be rigorous in managing 
our distributors, establishing quarterly
objectives that are subsequently reviewed.
Consistent underperformers are replaced.
TOMOTHERAPY TREATS 300 PATIENTS PER DAY
Solid state compact modulator systems
from e2v are enabling US-based
TomoTherapy Inc. to treat over 300 cancer
patients each day with radiotherapy. 
The compact modulator is a high voltage,
direct switching unit specially designed for
Linear Accelerator (LINAC) machine use.
Combined with an e2v magnetron, and
other system components, it provides the
high-energy, pulsed microwave source
required to drive the LINAC that provides
the life-saving x-rays used in the imaging
and treatment of tumours. 
e2v’s solid state modulator is more stable
than traditional modulators and its
computer-controlled and detailed
diagnostics capability offers users significant
advantages. As a result, the e2v modulator-
magnetron combination is able to provide
patients with highly conformal, image-
guided Intensity Modulated Radio Therapy
(IMRT) treatment, which reflects the progress
TomoTherapy and e2v technologies have
made to date, in enhancing traditional
radiotherapy treatment. 
TomoTherapy now have over 30 treatment
sites in North America, where their
equipments are fully clinical and treating
patients. New sites are becoming clinical
each month, including sites in Europe 
and Asia.  CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
We continue to invest in the future of 
the business.
Expenditure on capital equipment can
broadly be categorised as £0.6m on
infrastructure and building maintenance,
£4.7m on manufacturing plant expansion,
replacement or maintenance, £1.5m on IT,
including the SAP system implementation
and £0.8m on other items.
In manufacturing, the main area of investment
has been in the expansion of the wafer
fabrication facility for our high performance
imaging products. This will continue
throughout the current financial year, 
as we seek to maintain sufficient capacity 
to meet the demands of our customers,
particularly for dental x-ray within Medical
and Science and space science projects
within Aerospace and Defence.
Other notable manufacturing capital projects
include the creation of a semi-automated
assembly line for specialised components
used in Adaptive Cruise Control radar for the
automotive sector.
Our SAP project continues broadly to
schedule with all of our domestic and
international operations now operating on 
a single integrated IT platform for the first
time ever. The next major phase will be the
role out of shop floor controls and other
adjacent packages, such as Product Data
Management (PDM).
Our R&D spend into product maintenance/
support and new products was broadly
divided into £2.0m for electronic tubes and
£3.3m for sensors.
High performance imaging absorbs the
majority of R&D expenditure in the sensors
product group. In particular, we continue to
invest in our L3Vision™ ultra high sensitivity
devices and cameras, which are proving
successful in our markets.
The other significant sensors investment
programme is focused around our solid state
microwave sensing components in radar, 
for commercial and defence applications.
Major programmes supported in electronic
tubes were a new satcom amplifier to be
launched in September 2005, targeting 
high power requirements in commercial 
and defence applications, continued
development of our high efficiency amplifier
for terrestrial broadcast, which is now
supporting over 30 live transmitters in the
USA and travelling wave tubes, for defence
decoy programmes.
Also, in the year we launched a project 
to capitalise on the increasing rate of
investment into major new national scientific
facilities, such as the Fourth Generation Light
Source in the UK (a £150m programme), 
the Energy Recovery Linear Accelerator at
the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source,
known as CHESS (a $300m programme) 
in the USA and, more longer term, the
International Linear Collider Programme 
(a $6bn programme).
At 31 March 2005, 69 patent families had
been granted and a further 62 were pending.
In the year, there were over 21 new British
patent applications filed. We take a very
proactive approach to patent management,
seeking to protect our intellectual property,
where appropriate, to maintain or develop
our market position.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 10
Chief Executive’s report continued
e2v has been involved in the defence
industry since its inception in 1944 and
during that time e2v has built a strong
reputation within the industry based on
its specialist expertise and technical
innovation. Today e2v is a highly
respected company within the defence
industry at home and overseas.  
One major military project e2v has been
involved with from its inception is the
development of towed decoys for
military aircraft. The decoy is towed
some distance behind an aircraft
(usually a supersonic jet fighter) and 
is the source of a microwave jamming 
or countermeasures signal. 
The signal is generated within the
aircraft, and then passed down the fibre-
optic tow cable into the travelling wave
tube (TWT), which amplifies the power of
the signal by a factor of about 100,000
before directing it to the antennae. 
e2v has positioned itself as a preferred
supplier of TWTs into both European 
and North American programmes based
on the superior performance of its 
TWTs under the particularly difficult
environmental conditions experienced 
by the decoy. As the decoys are typically
expendable volume requirements are, in
general, high. 
MILITARY DECOYS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 11
OUTLOOK
As we come to the end of the first quarter 
for the current financial year, we continue 
to see strong demand for our high performance
imaging technology, both for space science
programmes and for use in dental x-ray
systems. In the electronic tubes product
group, marine radar components and 
devices for broadcast transmitters are 
also experiencing positive demand.
We have an ongoing programme to focus 
on productivity improvements, which will
underpin further profit growth, particularly
during the second half of the year.
Finally, we continue to actively pursue ‘bolt-
on’ acquisitions to accelerate the growth
profile of the business. Overall, e2v is well
placed to deliver continued growth.
Keith Attwood
Chief Executive Officer
MARINE RADAR KEEPING SHIPPING SAFE
e2v provides marine radar components
which are vital in keeping the world’s
shipping lanes safe. e2v’s marine
components provide the enabling
technology that allows vessels to 
detect and safely avoid other ships. 
e2v has been supplying radar components
into the marine industry for a sustained
period of time. Today e2v remains one of
the few independent manufacturers of
marine components such as magnetrons,
limiters, circulators and performance
monitors. Our commercial advantage is
further enhanced by our reputation for
product innovation, long life and product
reliability. Over the coming years we see
our market share increasing due to the
introduction and availability of a next
generation technology that is designed 
to capitalise on new legislation. The
market is predominantly dominated by 
a small number of key OEMs, of which 
we have established relationships with
the likes of Sperry Marine, Furuno and
Kelvin Hughes etc. 
Similar products are also supplied into
airborne applications for use in weather
radars for small and private aircraft.  INNOVATION
RAISING THE BAR
CONNECTIVITY
INTEGRITY
Our values in action
