 George Kennedy
Chairman
OVERVIEW
e2v technologies floated on the London
Stock Exchange in July 2004 following two
years as a private equity backed limited
company. We are therefore reporting full
year results as a publicly listed company 
for the first time. 
We are pleased to report positive progress
across a number of fronts for the year 
ended 31 March 2005. Sales breaking the
£100m mark at £100.5m (2004: £97.6m)
represented a significant milestone for the
Group, with year on year growth at reported
exchange rates of 3% (7% at constant
exchange rates). Operating profit (before
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional
items) was £12.4m (2004: £11.5m),
representing a 7.5% increase year on year,
despite the continued weakness of the 
US$ relative to sterling and the Group’s
increased success in the United States 
and other US$ denominated markets.
The statutory operating profit (after
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional
items) was £9.2m (2004: £9.9m), the fall
being primarily due to the £1.9m of IPO
costs incurred at the flotation. Profits 
after interest and tax amount to £2.2m
(2004: £3.3m).
Sales growth has been derived from the
sensors product group, in particular high
performance imaging technology for
applications within the scientific, medical
and aerospace markets. The electronic 
tube product group performed consistently,
providing modest sales growth year on 
year at ‘like for like’ exchange rates, 
and underpinning the performance of 
the sensors group with a solid, recurring
revenue stream, predominantly from spares.
DIVIDEND
Following the interim dividend of 0.63 pence 
per share, the Board has declared a final
dividend of 3.9 pence per share, in line with
guidance given during the flotation and
reflecting the proportion of the year that 
the Group has been listed.
THE BOARD
Prior to the flotation in July 2004, the Board
was restructured to take account of the
Group’s future requirements as a plc. 
I am pleased to report that the Board has a
good balance of both corporate and specific
industry experience. In addition to myself as
Chairman, we have three Non-Executive
Directors and two Executive Directors. Brief
CVs are included within the Annual Report. 
OUTLOOK
Strong demand across a number of 
fronts, along with continued focus on
operational efficiencies, gives us confidence
that the Group is well placed to continue
delivering growth.
George Kennedy
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT e2v ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 PAGE 2
Chairman’s statement
