 2        EAG Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2007
On 26 June 2007, EAG Limited (“EAG”) completed its initial public 
offering (“IPO”) on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange 
(“AIM”), raising gross proceeds of £125 million. Subsequently, EAG 
arranged $140 million of new financing facilities, which have been 
renegotiated to a revised level of $75 million following termination 
of the acquisition strategy. These proceeds and financing facilities 
provided EAG with the resources to continue its expansion by 
acquisition into microelectronic failure analysis services, thereby 
broadening the range of testing services on offer to customers.
The businesses in microanalytical surface analysis and materials 
characterisation services, which constitute 63% of EAG’s revenues, 
continued to build on their market leading positions. This was 
driven by continued investment in instruments and skilled scientists 
to further broaden and expand the testing services.
Shortly before the IPO, EAG acquired the business of Accurel 
Systems International, which has now been combined with that 
of AMER Inc, which was acquired in late 2006. Since flotation, EAG 
continued its expansion strategy with the acquisitions of Micro 
Electronic Failure Analysis Services Inc, DSL Labs Inc and White 
Mountain Labs LLC. Together, these acquisitions position EAG 
as a leading supplier of microelectronic failure analysis services. 
This reflects the strategy of building leading positions in both 
microanalytical surface analysis and microelectronic failure analysis.
On 19 December 2007 , EAG announced an increase in overall 
expenses since the IPO, together with a realignment of management 
responsibilities and the initiation of a full strategic review to consider 
all options, including the possibility of an outright sale. I was 
appointed Non Executive Chairman; David Lahar, previously Executive 
Chairman, became Chief Executive; Jim Cowart relinquished his 
position as Vice Chairman but remained a Non-Executive Director 
and Thomas Pfeil resigned as Chief Executive. Furthermore, an 
independent committee of the Board was formed of non-executive 
directors to consider the strategic options, including the possibility of 
an outright sale, which is ongoing.
On 13 February 2008, EAG announced that it had received 
notification of the formation of a concert party by a group of EAG 
shareholders comprising David Lahar, Jim Cowart, Thomas Pfeil and 
American Capital Strategies Limited. Subsequently, on 26 March 2008, 
EAG announced that it had received notification that the concert 
party had been disbanded, and that David Lahar and Jim Cowart 
were no longer considering a possible offer for the company.
The strategic review is ongoing, and a number of expressions 
of interest have been received that are being pursued through an 
orderly process to explore the possibility of a sale. These results and 
the management budgeting process are important tools which the 
board will use to appraise any offers or proposed offers that might be 
made. The board will keep shareholders informed of developments.
The company would like to remind shareholders that EAG is 
not subject to the City Code on Takeovers & Mergers. However, 
the articles of association contain certain provisions relating to 
takeovers, copies of which are available on the company’s  
website at www.eaglabs.com.
A maiden interim dividend of 3 cents per share was paid in 
October 2007. At the time of the IPO, it was stated that the intention 
was to pay a dividend of 8 cents per share in the first 12 months as a 
public company. However, the board has decided to postpone any 
decision on future dividends, pending clarity of the future strategy.
 I would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff and 
senior management for their continued efforts and loyalty 
throughout a challenging period.
Outlook
Trading in the new year has been broadly in line with market 
expectations, notwithstanding the challenging conditions 
experienced in EAG’s main markets. Looking ahead, there are a 
number of new areas of optimism, including Asia and photovoltaic 
technologies. Nevertheless, the outlook is necessarily cautious in 
light of uncertainties in the general economic environment, and 
particularly in the semiconductor equipment and manufacturing 
areas, as well as the ongoing strategic review. The company 
remains confident in the attractiveness of the markets and their 
growth prospects over the longer term.
Ian Johnson 
Non-Executive Chairman 
30 March 2008
“2007 was certainly an eventful year. The IPO and new financing facilities laid the foundation for a period of 
rapid growth by acquisition to expand into the complementary market of failure analysis while continuing 
to build EAG’s leading position in surface analysis. The consequences of the rapid enlargement and multiple 
integration issues required changes to be made to the board and senior management at the end of the year 
together with strengthening of the finance function. A full strategic review of the business was initiated, 
including the possibility of an outright sale. This review is well underway and expressions of interest have 
been received from a number of parties to acquire the company. With publication of these results, the board 
is able to pursue a fuller dialogue and accelerate the process.”
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
