 EAG Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2007        3
Four acquisitions were completed in the year which, together 
with earlier acquisitions, has positioned the group as a leading 
supplier of microelectronic failure analysis and “release to 
production” services. This opens an exciting new market that 
is complementary to the microanalytical surface analysis and 
materials characterisation services. 
In 2007, EAG’s clear market leadership in Secondary Ion Mass 
Spectrometry (“SIMS”) and Glow Discharge Mass Spectrometry 
(“GDMS”) techniques, coupled with a strong presence in Asia, 
resulted in solid growth in a number of segments – electronic 
specialty metals and alloys, integrated circuit foundries, aerospace/
defence, lasers/optics and solar/energy.
EAG’s semiconductor capital equipment and integrated device 
manufacturing segments proved more challenging, as growth 
in the first half was followed by contraction in the second half. 
In the late summer, major foundries and large semiconductor 
manufacturers began to indicate that capital expenditure budgets 
could be reduced. Among integrated device manufacturers, 
general economic uncertainty, particularly with respect to 
EAG’s European clients in this segment, resulted in a reduction 
in demand for testing in second half. However, EAG’s revenue 
from the integrated circuit foundries and fabless semiconductor 
companies has grown.
Geographically, 74% of total sales were derived in the United 
States, 17% in Asia and 9% in Europe. Revenues from EAG’s 
operations in Asia increased significantly in 2007, particularly due 
to growth in demand from integrated circuit foundries in Taiwan, 
China and Singapore, emerging demand for purity testing of 
photovoltaic grade silicon feedstock in China, and the rapidly 
expanding fabless semiconductor segment in China.
The surface analysis testing business operates primarily from US 
laboratories in California, Minnesota, Massachusetts, Texas, New 
Jersey, North Carolina, and Arizona, the international laboratories 
in France, Germany, United Kingdom, Shanghai and Taiwan, as well 
as the sales office in Tokyo. The microelectronic failure analysis and 
“release to production” services business operates primarily from 
laboratories in northern and southern California and Arizona.
Microelectronic failure analysis and “release to production” 
testing services are provided primarily to fabless semiconductor 
companies and small to medium-sized integrated device 
manufacturers, and include automated test, failure analysis,  
circuit debug and edit, reliability and qualification testing (burn-in, 
stress, electro-static discharge and latch-up testing). These testing 
services are critical in bringing an integrated circuit design from 
conceptualisation to volume production.
In the year ahead, the plan is to integrate the acquisitions made 
during 2007. As a consequence, four facilities are expected to 
be consolidated by combining Accurel Systems International, 
AMER and DSL Labs into a single facility that is designed to 
accommodate all aspects of the microanalytical failure analysis 
services. This consolidation is expected to require one-time 
charges and capital expenditure of approximately $2m.
Fabless semiconductor companies typically focus on two 
areas – circuit conceptualisation and design, and application-
specific sales and marketing. The majority of the other operational 
areas – including prototype production, failure analysis, reliability 
and qualification testing, and volume production – are often 
outsourced. While the largest integrated device manufacturers 
(so called Tier-1 IDMs) introduce a sufficient number of new 
products and have sufficient volumes to justify maintaining 
their own in-house failure analysis and “release to production” 
testing capabilities, most smaller IDMs (Tier-2 and Tier-3) and the 
majority of fabless semiconductor companies find it difficult to 
justify maintaining in-house capabilities and look to independent 
companies, such as EAG, to provide these services on an 
outsourced basis.
EAG has incurred significantly higher corporate costs than 
planned in a number of areas, including additional personnel 
and system costs to upgrade the finance, human resource and 
information technology departments, professional services fees 
related to being a public company, share-based compensation 
expense, as well as one-off costs relating to the decision to realign 
management responsibilities and terminate acquisition activity, 
pending the outcome of the strategic review. 
David A. Lahar 
Chief Executive Officer 
30 March 2008
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW
