 Drew Johnson was appointed 
as our new Chief Executive 
Officer on 27 April 2009. He 
answers some questions about 
the progress and future of eaga.
Q1 
What is your background – how long have you  
been with eaga?
I’ve been with eaga since 1991, so almost twenty years now. 
Prior to coming to eaga, I worked in supply chain logistics at 
British Coal, where I began my working relationship with John 
Clough, eaga’s previous Chief Executive. John brought me to 
eaga, and I worked closely alongside him in the commercial 
development and growth of the business. 
Over the years, I’ve led eaga’s commercial expansion 
strategy, identifying and driving forward opportunities for 
acquisitive growth, at the same time I have ensured that 
businesses such as eagaheat, our central heating subsidiary, 
have grown organically from a standing start in 2004 to  
a business now turning over more than £70m annually. 
Q2 
What do you see as eaga’s main strengths? 
One important strength is that we operate in very attractive, 
sustainable markets – the demand for proven outsource 
providers, established national deliverers of heating and 
renewables and sources of scalable residential carbon 
savings is clear. eaga’s infrastructure, customer-focused 
approach and track record for delivery means that we’re 
really well placed to continue growing in these markets. 
Our most important asset is our ability to understand and 
meet the needs of our customers – whether that’s central  
or local Government or a major energy supplier, we know 
what is driving their agenda and can shape and alter the 
services we provide to meet those needs. Our Partners bring 
this ability to life. Their professionalism, dedication, flexibility 
and focus on customer service is crucial to our success.
Q3 
What is the biggest challenge facing you as  
Chief Executive?
For any business that’s growing as quickly as eaga,  
it’s always a priority for us to remember the key success 
factors that have brought us this far as we expand.  
We’re competing for, and winning, new contracts across  
the country and the challenge for me is to maintain that 
customer-focused approach throughout all of our business 
units. As a company we’ve grown up with a clear set of 
values, placing our customers at the heart of everything  
we do – as we grow and diversify into new areas of business, 
it’s critical that we don’t lose sight of those foundations of 
our success. 
Q4
What do you think are your key priorities for the next  
twelve months?
We’ve grown and developed an impressive platform for the 
business – both in terms of geographic spread and in terms 
of the range of products and services we’re able to deliver. 
The challenge for us now is to really drive that platform and 
secure additional new work; both in our core markets with 
our existing customer base and into new markets as we take 
advantage of the scale and the infrastructure we’ve built. 
The priority has to be on maintaining our momentum, 
during our growth by maximising the number of 
opportunities that are out there, whilst at the same time 
ensuring that we select the right opportunities to go for; 
ones that will add value to our contract portfolio and 
strengthen our reputation for delivery with key audiences  
as well enhancing as our profitability and sustainability  
as a business. 
Q&A with our new CEO
Drew Johnson
12 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Q5 
What sort of company would you like eaga to be in five 
years’ time?
It’s important that we retain some of the key characteristics 
that have taken us this far – remembering that our ability  
to anticipate, understand and deliver on the needs of our 
customer base should always take priority. Their requirements 
and the products and services we deliver on their behalf,  
will inevitably change as the underlying conditions change  
– what’s important for us is that we’re ready to meet those 
changing priorities ahead of time. 
To do that, it’s vitally important that we have the right 
management structure and leadership team in place  
to deliver; building on the strong unit we have now and 
supplementing it with the right people to capitalise on  
the opportunities that are out there. 
Above all else, I’d like the business in five years time  
to be continuing to maximise the opportunities that  
present themselves by leading the way in its core  
markets – driving excellent customer service in the  
BPO arena; implementing at scale the domestic heating 
and renewable energy technologies of the future and 
continuing to provide the innovative residential carbon 
saving solutions; all of which will drive our growth. 
Q6 
What makes eaga different?
A number of things. First, our business is structured in such  
a way that the interaction between our business segments 
adds real value to the component parts – we’re able to 
maximise the expertise and the commercial relationships 
that exist in different parts of eaga to bring value to the 
whole Group. Second, our focus on our values-driven 
approach is important – it drives everything that we do. 
eaga Partners are recruited, developed and retained based 
on the strength of their ability to live those values, and in turn 
that drives forward excellent service for our customers. 
Finally, I think we’re different because we act on the things  
we stand for. Our commitment to our communities, to 
sustainability and to the customer group we serve is real;  
it runs through the heart of the business and it adds real 
value to the commercial proposition we bring. Our ability  
to not just keep this alive, but re-energise and refresh it as  
we grow, is hugely important. 
13 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009
