 I am pleased to present this 
annual report, which charts the 
progress of another successful 
year. The year has seen eaga 
continue to build on its track 
record as an established growth 
business and despite the 
wider context of a challenging 
economic climate, eaga has 
succeeded in increasing both 
revenues and profits across 
each of its business segments.
The drivers within eaga’s markets remain strong and with 
a range of emerging opportunities in our core markets, 
the business is well placed to make good progress. We are 
focused on building on the Group’s strong foundations to 
achieve further diversification and growth.
Results
The Group’s results for the year to 31 May 2009 show double 
digit growth in revenues and profits before exceptional 
items. Group revenue increased by 15.6% to £738.9m 
(2008: £639.0m) and Group earnings before interest, tax, 
amortisation of intangible assets, eaga Partnership Trust 
(‘ePT’)-funded charges and exceptional costs (‘EBITA’)  
grew by 24.1% to £47.2m (2008: £38.0m). It is pleasing  
that 12.9% of our 15.6% revenue growth was organic.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (adjusted for 
amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges,  
exceptional costs and associated taxation) has increased 
by 26.0% to 13.38p.
The Group held net cash balances (cash balances less 
loans and borrowings) of £31.3m (2008: £14.8m) at the year 
end. Our cash generative business model, alongside the 
agreement of new credit facilities, provides the flexibility  
to support the Group’s future growth opportunities.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 1.1p per Ordinary Share was paid on 
23 March 2009. The Board has proposed a final dividend of 
2.4p per Ordinary Share, payable on 13 November 2009 to 
shareholders on the register at 16 October 2009, resulting in 
a total proposed dividend for the year of 3.5p per Ordinary 
Share (2008: 3.0p per Ordinary Share), an increase of 16.7%, 
reflecting our confidence in the growth of the business.
Strategy
Our strategic aims for 2009 were to enhance our business 
process outsourcing (‘BPO’) activities, to continue the 
development of our activities in the domestic heating and 
renewables markets and to capitalise further on our position 
within an expanded Carbon Emissions Reduction Target 
(‘CERT’) market. I am pleased to report progression on all 
of these aims.
The agreement reached with Government to extend eaga’s 
contract to deliver the Warm Front Scheme to the end of the 
current Government spending period, 31 March 2011, with 
provision for a further two year extension beyond that point 
strengthens our position in this key outsourced contract.  
Our delivery of the Digital Switchover Help Scheme for the 
BBC is also well underway, with eaga interacting with more 
than 1.1m eligible customers as part of that delivery. Our 
activities in this area have been further strengthened as we 
were appointed by the Department of Culture, Media and 
Sport (‘DCMS’) to deliver the digital switchover contract for 
care homes across the UK.
Chairman’s Statement
Charles Berry
Chairman
02 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our activities in the social housing heating market  
have recovered well in the year following last year’s 
challenges around contract profitability and integration.  
This recovery, together with several new contract wins and 
the development of a number of strategic partnerships  
to provide heating services, ensures that we have a strong 
platform for continued growth in the domestic heating  
and renewables markets.
Our delivery into the CERT market over the period has been 
at a greater volume than ever before – we estimate that 
our activity with all six utilities has saved more than 9.1m 
tonnes of CO
2
 during the year ended 31 May 2009. The roll 
out of the outsource contract for ScottishPower has been 
a success for both eaga and our customer. We believe the 
opportunities in the CERT market remain strong, supported 
by the Government’s announced 20% increase to the  
CERT obligation and reinforced by ongoing consultation  
to extend the CERT period by a further 21 months to  
31 December 2012.
The domestic carbon saving agenda was further boosted 
in the year with the launch of the Community Energy 
Saving Programme (‘CESP’). This initiative funded by energy 
suppliers and generators is intended to incentivise higher 
value retrofit interventions, such as renewable technologies 
and external wall insulation, in communities across the UK, 
where the Group is strategically well positioned.
As we look forward to 2010 our key objectives are to 
continue to diversify our contract base in the BPO market, 
continue to grow our domestic heating and renewables 
businesses through the further development of key 
strategic partnerships, and to capitalise on the ongoing 
opportunities in the CERT and CESP markets.
People and Culture
The performance eaga achieves is delivered by its people 
or, as we like to call them, Partners. Our Partners sustain 
and energise our approach to business, which is based 
on a number of core values. Those values are at the heart 
of eaga’s success and are focused on a primary aim of 
delivering outstanding customer service. We encourage 
and actively facilitate an operating culture in which our 
Partners can anticipate, understand and act upon the 
needs of our customers.
On behalf of all stakeholders, I would like to personally 
thank all of our Partners for their commitment, dedication 
and overall contribution to our continued success.
The Board
I am grateful to my Board colleagues for their ongoing 
support and counsel over the past twelve months.  
Their continued care, determination and foresight have 
contributed hugely to eaga’s development during the year.
The Board welcomed Roger Aylard as a Non-Executive 
Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009. 
Roger retired as Head of UK Investment Banking at Deutsche 
Bank in August 2007 after a career encompassing ten 
years in the oil industry, six years as a research analyst and 
fifteen years in corporate broking and corporate finance. 
During this time he acted as senior advisor to a wide range 
of major UK companies. His insight and experience add 
considerable value to a well established team.
17%
Rise in total dividend 
per share
3.5p 2009
3.0p 2008
03 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairman’s Statement
Continued
On 27 April 2009, eaga announced that John Clough MBE, 
the Company’s Chief Executive since its formation in 1990, 
was to retire with immediate effect. John’s decision to retire 
allows him to protect his long-term health. On behalf of the 
Board and his friends, colleagues and Partners, we thank 
him for his service and recognise him for the immense 
contribution he has made to eaga’s growth, development 
and success.
Following John’s retirement, the Board announced that 
Drew Johnson would be appointed Chief Executive with 
immediate effect. Drew has been the key architect of 
eaga’s commercial strategy and operational development 
that have been key to the growth of eaga throughout 
the eighteen years he has been with the business. His 
understanding of eaga’s business model and knowledge 
of the markets in which the Group operates is unparalleled. 
The Board is delighted with Drew’s appointment as Chief 
Executive and believe that he, together with the backing  
of a strong senior management team, will further develop 
the strategic direction of the business.
Outlook
The 2009 results demonstrate the Group’s ability to deliver 
continued strong growth, despite difficult economic 
conditions. The secured sales order book delivers strong 
revenue visibility for 2010 and eaga continues to be well 
positioned in its core markets, which offer positive and 
sustainable opportunities for further growth.
Building on our established platform, the Group has a  
clear focus on opportunities in the BPO, domestic heating 
and residential carbon saving markets to actively grow  
a diversified customer and contract base. Trading during 
the first quarter has been in line with expectations and  
the Board is confident that eaga will continue its growth, 
extend its successful track record and make further 
significant progress in the year to 31 May 2010.
Charles Berry, Chairman
1 September 2009
04 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009
