 04
Earthport plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Over the last 18 months Earthport has 
engaged with two of the top five global 
banks and four of the top 20 US banks,  
which is testimony to the growth momentum 
being achieved by the Group. Overall, new 
customers gained in the year rose by 57%  
to 33 (FY 2013: 21). This includes significant 
names such as Bank of America Merrill Lynch, 
HSBC, State Street Corporation, PNC Bank, 
Aktif Bank and World Remit. Post year end, 
in October 2014, Earthport was delighted to 
announce a new agreement with Standard 
Chartered Bank and Banco do Brasil. 
During the financial year, 14 new clients 
commenced operations with Earthport,  
while a further 25 clients are under various 
stages of implementation, reflecting 
significant embedded revenue potential.
Revenues increased substantially year-on-year, 
mainly driven by transactional fees and also by 
professional services fees; approximately 11% 
of revenues were attributable to professional 
services (FY 2013: approximately 19%). The 
decrease in cash consumption reflects a pivotal 
point, and net cash used in the second half of 
the year continued to decrease. Cash used in 
operating activities, excluding acquisition costs, 
decreased by 34%. The Group cash position at 
30 June 2014 was £9.46 million and post year 
end addition of £26.6 million (net £26.3 million)
provides a strong platform, underpinning the 
business as it continues its path to profitability. 
In line with its strategy to evolve as the 
industry’s cross-border payments utility, 
Earthport continues to strengthen its five  
key pillars of the growth strategy and these  
are outlined in the strategy section on page 7. 
The acquisition of Baydonhill in November 
2013 is complementary to the Group’s 
objectives and has enhanced Earthport’s 
Foreign Exchange and Treasury Service 
capabilities. Post year end, in August 2014, 
Earthport entered into a forward purchase 
agreement for a minority stake of ASPOne. 
ASPOne develops and provides IT and 
communications solutions for the finance 
industry from five global offices located in 
Istanbul, Moscow, Singapore, Hong Kong  
and London. This transaction reinforces  
the customer-supplier relationship, and 
represents an opportunity for Earthport to 
leverage ASPOne’s development capabilities 
to achieve scale at pace and enhance its 
platform to deliver superior client experience. 
The addition of £26.6 million of new capital from 
sophisticated new and existing global institutions 
from the US and Europe in September 2014,  
is a significant vote of confidence in our  
strategy and positioning. The funds will be  
used to accelerate geographical expansion.  
In particular, Earthport will bring forward plans 
to develop a presence and capability to address 
the significant and fast-growing intra-Asian and 
Asia-outbound opportunity. 
Over the last 18 months Earthport’s efforts 
to redefine itself has borne fruit and its 
recent success in engaging with two of  
the top five global banks and four of the  
top 20 US banks is testimony to the growth 
momentum being achieved by the Group. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Hank Uberoi
Redefining  
global payments. 05
Earthport plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Banking Network
The traction Earthport has gained with the 
largest organisations in the global financial 
services industry demonstrates the uniqueness 
of the Company’s core infrastructure offering. 
Central to Earthport’s offering is its unrivalled 
international bank payment routes and  
global reach. 
Earthport’s network expansion continued 
during the financial year, completing several 
critical territory initiatives and paving the  
way for further growth to follow. The territory 
coverage at 30 June 2014 encompassed 63 
markets, with further expansion in process  
(FY 2013: 58). The new territories added in the 
financial year were Bosnia, China, Colombia, 
Egypt and Mexico. These additions enable 
Earthport to service a majority of the trade  
and remittances corridors globally; a key 
differentiator of the Company’s offering. 
In the prior financial year, Earthport received 
investment from the IFC, the world’s largest 
private sector development institution, to 
expand Earthport’s global presence and 
payments service infrastructure, particularly 
in developing countries to drive financial 
inclusion. The relationship with the IFC 
continues to prove fruitful in progressing  
in countries that for others would be  
more inaccessible. 
Service Enhancements
Earthport brings together a platform 
specifically developed to process high 
volume, low monetary value transactions.  
Its worldwide payment network and team  
with deep domain expertise together  
provide transaction processing services  
on a white-label basis. Earthport has an 
unparalleled offering in terms of efficiency, 
accuracy, product capability and geographic 
footprint in the area of white-labelled 
international payments.
The Company is continually expanding its 
product capabilities to better leverage assets 
and serve clients with additional payment-
related services. The acquisition of Baydonhill 
is in line with this objective and enables 
Earthport to deliver on the increasing demand 
from existing and prospective customers for 
greater FX capabilities. Other enhancements 
during the year include:
Client integrations: Earthport has  
continued to make system enhancements 
focused on facilitating ease of integration  
for major customer segments, including the 
banking sector;
Platform operational efficiency: Earthport 
has continued to make improvements to 
efficiency and straight-through-processing. 
These improvements facilitate better cut-off 
times and a reduction of settlement periods, 
and support an increase in transaction 
volumes to consistently meet Service  
Level Agreements;
Screening and monitoring: Developing 
and enhancing compliance screening 
functionality and transaction monitoring 
capability to support Earthport’s growth  
in transaction volumes;
Professional services engagements:  
The number of professional services 
engagements continues to grow and new 
robust processes have been developed to 
underpin consultancy, scoping requirements 
and the management of funded service 
changes; and
FX enhancement from use of the 
Baydonhill service: The acquisition  
of Baydonhill enables us to deliver on  
the increasing demand from existing  
and prospective customers for greater 
FX capabilities. 
Strong Compliance
Earthport understands that a key requirement 
of our customers is consistent and credible 
assurance regarding direct and/or indirect 
exposure to regulatory compliance and 
financial crime risk. 
In international financial services today, such 
assurance is business critical. 
The Earthport compliance function applies  
a risk-based approach to the development 
and implementation of compliance controls 
designed to ensure that the letter and the 
spirit of the legislative and regulatory 
environment is met. 
Earthport applies a comprehensive and 
detailed approach to further strengthen our 
counterparty’s own control regimes by adopting 
a transparent partnership approach, listening, 
learning and happily providing evidence  
of the effectiveness of our controls on an 
on-going basis, through third party audit  
and/or review, and by really getting to know 
client business activities. 
Core to the Earthport product, are  
the compliance deliverables of sound 
counterparty due diligence, comprehensive 
sanction screening and customised 
transaction monitoring. 
Effective compliance controls manage risk 
and ensure the safe growth of Earthport’s 
business, our clients business and the 
businesses of our partner banks. Every 
counterparty relationship is a public 
statement of confidence in how Earthport 
manages multi-jurisdictional compliance. 
Management Changes
In May 2014, Earthport announced the 
appointment of Jorge Moran to the Board  
as Non-Executive Director. Jorge, an 
accomplished banker with significant stature 
in the global financial services industry, was 
formerly the Chief Executive Officer and 
President of Sovereign Bank and Santander’s 
US country head. Jorge’s international 
exposure and experience within regulated 
global businesses aligns well with Earthport. 
In June 2014, Earthport also strengthened its 
management team through the appointment  
of Sajeev Viswanathan as President, Global 
Head of Strategy and Product. Sajeev, an 
entrepreneur and a banker with wide-ranging 
management experience across retail, 
corporate, transaction banking and development 
finance in several geographies across the world, 
worked with Citigroup for over 18 years and  
was Managing Director, Global Transaction 
Services, in charge of the Global Receivables 
and Trade Finance business based in London.  06
Earthport plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
shares to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, 
exercisable if this minimum revenue level 
is achieved. They may receive additional 
warrants over a further maximum of 19.3 
million new ordinary shares at a strike price  
of £0.31 if they deliver payment revenues  
to Earthport that materially exceed the 
minimums under the commercial contract.
The terms of the warrants include limited 
anti-dilution provisions for the benefit of  
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in certain 
circumstances. The Board considers that 
these provisions are unlikely to be triggered. 
Acquisition of Baydonhill
Earthport completed the acquisition of 
Baydonhill in November 2013. The cash offer 
valued Baydonhill at approximately £6.42 
million on the basis of a fully diluted share 
capital of Baydonhill. Since 84.3% of the 
Baydonhill shareholders accepted the earn-out 
offer, the upfront cash amounted to £3.31 
million. If the full earn-out is achieved, an 
additional £1.28 million in cash and 13,808,993 
Earthport shares will be issued; the additional 
cash being funded from Baydonhill’s future 
cash flows. Baydonhill had an outstanding loan 
amounting to £474,000 which Earthport also 
attained through the acquisition. 
This was a major strategic move for Earthport. 
Earthport had worked with Baydonhill for several 
years and the product offering and expertise 
represented an ideal fit with Earthport’s strategy 
to provide a comprehensive, white-labelled 
cross-border payment service to over 60 
countries and 100-plus currencies.
Post Year End Minority Stake in ASPOne
In August 2014, Earthport and ASPOne 
reinforced their customer-supplier 
relationship by the entry into an agreement 
for Earthport to purchase a 45% stake in 
ASPOne in four years’ time for a maximum 
consideration of £2.7 million. The structure  
of the deal is performance-based and gives 
Earthport the option of acquiring the balance 
of ASPOne. 
The forward purchase represents a strategic 
opportunity for Earthport to leverage ASPOne’s 
talented technology team and its sophisticated 
development capabilities to achieve scale at 
pace; accelerating usage with new and existing 
customers that are in various stages of roll out. 
ASPOne develops and provides IT and 
communications solutions for the finance 
industry from five global offices located in 
Istanbul, Moscow, Singapore, Hong Kong and 
London. Last year (March 2013), ASPOne  
had sales of £5.2 million, a loss before tax of 
£0.8 million and net liabilities of £2.6 million. 
More recently he served as Chief Executive 
Officer and Managing Director of Bhartiya 
Samrudhi Finance Ltd, a microfinance 
company in India. 
Sajeev brings significant domain knowledge 
and will focus on developing Earthport’s global 
strategy, initially for expansion into Asia, and 
will also manage Earthport’s global network 
and product management functions. On  
15 October 2014, Sajeev was appointed to  
the Board as Executive Director; at the same  
time it was announced that Paul Thomas  
has stepped down as an Executive Director  
of the Company; he remains with Earthport 
as Non-Executive Director.
Financial Review
Total revenue for the year ended 30 June 2014 
increased 161% to £10.82 million (FY 2013: 
£4.14 million). These results also include an 
eight-month contribution following the acquisition 
of Baydonhill in November 2013. Like-for-like 
revenue growth was 67%, demonstrating 
acceleration in the underlying business. 
The increase in underlying revenues has 
been driven by payment and FX transactions 
as existing clients increase activity and  
as new customers go live, as well as 
minimum revenue contracts and consulting 
engagements that generate professional 
services fees. 
Adjusted gross profit rose 159% to £8.25 
million (FY 2013: £3.18 million). Adjusted 
gross margin was broadly consistent at 76% 
(FY 2013: 77%). Gross profit was up 149%  
to £7.93 million (FY 2013: £3.18 million) and 
gross margin was 73% (FY 2013: 77%). 
Administrative expenses increased to £14.37 
million (FY 2013: £9.68 million), primarily due 
to the acquisition of Baydonhill, increased 
personnel costs as the sales team and 
general headcount has been increased in 
line with growth and to provide the internal 
resources necessary for the Company’s 
increasing customer base, pipeline and 
implementation projects underway. 
Adjusted operating loss, before acquisition 
costs, share-based payment charge of £1.75 
million (FY 2013: £1.65 million) and unrealised 
fair value adjustment of £2.27 million arising 
on the year end translation of unsettled 
transactions (FY 2013: £nil), decreased by 
approximately 1% to £6.44 million (FY 2013: 
£6.50 million). The operating loss was £6.35 
million (FY 2013: £8.14 million). A charge of 
£0.32 million has been recognised for warrants 
granted to Bank of America Merrill Lynch  
(FY 2013: £nil). The Group loss before taxation 
decreased to £6.33 million (FY 2013: £8.13 
million). Overall, loss after taxation decreased 
to £6.70 million (FY 2013: £8.13 million).
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June 2014 
were £9.46 million (at 31 December 2013: 
£8.19 million, at 30 June 2013: £13.42 million). 
Like-for-like net cash used in operating activities 
decreased to £4.36 million (FY 2013: £5.91 
million), including £0.44 million of exceptional 
acquisition costs. Excluding the acquisition 
costs the net cash used decreased by 34%.  
The continued decrease in net cash used in 
operating activities continues to demonstrate 
that a turning point in terms of cash used  
versus revenue growth has been reached.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Warrants
Earthport singed a multi-year agreement with 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in December 
2013; commercial terms included minimum 
revenue of $11.3 million. Earthport granted 
warrants at a strike price of £0.242 per  
ordinary share over 17.3 million new ordinary 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Continued 07
Earthport plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Post Year End Placing 
On 18 September 2014, Earthport announced 
that it has successfully placed 65,136,464 new 
ordinary shares at 40.85 pence per share with 
both new and existing institutional investors. 
The gross proceeds of £26.6 million ($43.43 
million) will be used to accelerate geographic 
expansion and presence in Asia, as well as  
to strengthen the balance sheet in support of 
significant client and product opportunities in 
the pipeline and to invest behind the growth  
and momentum achieved in North America  
and Europe.
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. of New York  
was the cornerstone investor in the round  
and now holds 8.62% of the enlarged  
issued share capital of the Company.  
The strengthened balance sheet will allow 
Earthport to accelerate expansion plans in 
Asia to address the significant intra-Asian  
as well as the Asia out-bound opportunity.  
It will also further accelerate client acquisition 
and make regulators around the world more 
comfortable with the Company’s model  
and positioning. There are several revenue 
opportunities, such as US licencing and 
increased forward FX lines that will benefit 
from the stronger balance sheet where not  
all of them will involve an actual increase  
in the use of cash. 
Key Performance Indicators
The payments industry, and the cross-border 
payments segment in particular, is at the  
cusp of an evolutionary phase. Earthport’s 
proposition in this dynamic industry segment is 
uniquely disruptive; in that, it seeks to address  
a very large market need, not in competition 
with the incumbent significant players like 
banks, remittance companies and payment 
gateways, but in partnership with them. This 
implies that the business mix in Earthport is 
constantly changing and will continue to remain 
so as we grow. Consequently the metrics we 
are using to measure the performance of the 
business are kept under constant review at  
all levels across the organisation.
At this stage of its evolution, the Directors 
consider that the appropriate key performance 
indicators for the business are:
• Gross revenue;
• Gross margin;
• Number of bank partnerships across
the network;
• Straight Through Processing (STP) ratio;
and
• IT system availability.
The revenue for the year ended 30 June 2014 
was £10.82 million (FY 2013: £4.14 million); 
and adjusted gross margin was 76% (FY 2013: 
77%). 
As at the date of these accounts,  
Earthport has segregated bank accounts  
in 63 geographies; as at November last  
year it had segregated bank accounts in 60 
geographies. Earthport’s straight throughput 
rate remains above 99.5% and its IT system 
availability remains at or above 99%. 
Given that Earthport is currently loss-making 
and was so last year, any profit-based key 
performance indicators are not meaningful.
As we progress through the current financial 
year we will be developing greater analysis  
of our revenues by business segment.
Employees
The Group places considerable value on the 
awareness and involvement of its employees 
in the Group’s performance. Within the bounds 
of commercial confidentiality, information is 
disseminated to all levels of staff about matters 
that affect the progress of the Group and are 
of interest and concern to them as employees.
Strategy
Earthport has successfully transformed itself 
since 2010 and has gained credibility as a 
viable and better alternative to existing global 
payment infrastructures. The Company’s 
consequent momentum in the marketplace 
positions Earthport strategically to evolve  
as the de-facto utility for the cross-border 
low-value, high volume payments industry. 
In line with this strategic intent, Earthport  
will continue to invest in its five key pillars 
with the following objectives: 
1. Platform
State-of-the-art platform, offering scale to 
manage millions of cross-border payment 
transactions complemented by versatile 
interface structures and formats ensuring 
Straight Through Processing (STP) rates  
of 99.5% plus;
2. Network
A growing network of over 100 countries 
where Earthport will deliver payments through 
an interface via the local clearing system;
3. Domain expertise
Domain expertise across all markets in the 
Earthport Network, providing automated 
access to one of the largest validation 
databases for payment formats, and an 
up-to-date knowledge base on payment 
systems across the world;
4. Compliance
A robust and fully integrated compliance 
process which ensures supplementary 
enhanced protection and risk mitigation  
to meet existing and evolving regulatory 
requirements; and
5. Treasury services
Efficient treasury services offering liquidity 
management structures to optimise the 
journey of the payment in over 120 currencies. 
Proof points have now been achieved across 
each of these pillars, establishing Earthport’s 
foundation for expansion of its regional footprint 
and growing client base whilst enriching 
product suite and platform capability to cover 
emerging areas such as mobile payments, 
card/POS payments, collections, payment 
tracking and receivables matching. 
Outlook
Earthport has entered the current financial  
year in an excellent position, with established 
relationships with some of the largest financial 
institutions in the world and a strong balance 
sheet. The current pipeline of opportunities  
is very strong within our core banking client 
market as well as in adjacent areas of the 
international payments ecosystem. Earthport’s 
product positioning, extensive market 
opportunity and prospects within the existing 
client base as well as outside of it, provide  
us with on-going confidence in accelerated 
growth over the coming years. We are  
entering a truly exciting phase in the  
evolution of the Company.
By order of the Board
Hank Uberoi
Chief Executive Officer
22 October 2014
