 02
Earthport plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
This has been a transformational  
period for Earthport and I am delighted  
to report a successful year of significant 
progress in the evolution of Earthport  
as a major force in the international 
payments arena. 
Chairman’s Statement
Phil Hickman
Significant 
progress. 03
Earthport plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2012 2013 2014
Share price (as at 1 October 2014)
42.50 GBp 
This has been a transformational period  
for Earthport and I am delighted to report  
a successful year of significant progress in 
the evolution of the Company as a major 
force in the international payments arena. 
Earthport operates in a highly regulated  
global environment and it is crucial that  
our internal and external governance and 
compliance functions stand up to the scrutiny 
of top-tier banking and other clients. We 
recognise that this aspect of our business 
proposition is paramount to our association 
with the calibre of customers we have in  
our portfolio today. The Board, through the 
Audit and Compliance Committees, has 
regular independent reviews of these activities.
Earthport successfully completed the 
acquisition of Baydonhill, a specialist foreign 
exchange (FX) company in November 2013. 
The joining of the two businesses has proven 
very effective and the synergies are already 
being realised. The combined growth over the 
period delivered an overall 161% increase in 
revenues and 159% increase in gross profits, 
and we are on course to achieve a positive 
cash flow for existing business on a monthly 
run-rate by the end of the current financial year.
During the financial year, we were delighted  
to announce the appointment of Jorge Moran  
as Non-Executive Director; his recent banking 
expertise is providing a very valuable contribution 
to the Board. Prior to joining Earthport, Jorge  
was Chief Executive Officer and President of 
Sovereign Bank and Santander’s US country 
head. Jorge also spent time as Chief Executive 
Officer of Santander’s insurance and asset 
management business. In June 2014, Earthport 
also strengthened its management team through 
the appointment of Sajeev Viswanathan as 
President, Global Head of Strategy and Product. 
On 15 October 2014, Sajeev was appointed  
to the Board as Executive Director and it was 
announced that Paul Thomas has stepped 
down as an Executive Director of the 
Company; he remains with Earthport  
as Non-Executive Director. 
I would like to thank our shareholders for  
their continued support. Our cash position 
remained healthy throughout the year and 
since the year end, in September 2014, we 
announced the placement of shares raising 
gross proceeds of £26.6 million. Earthport’s 
strong balance sheet provides confidence  
to our banking partners and the regulators 
around the world. 
I would also like to thank all employees 
whose hard work and commitment has 
created the growth that we have enjoyed  
and our shareholders who have provided 
continued loyalty over the years. 
This financial year has shown the culmination of 
all our efforts being achieved, and we are excited 
to enter the next phase of growth driven by an 
increasing and high calibre customer base. We 
are proud to be a leader and Earthport is ideally 
positioned to take advantage of the changing 
payments ecosystem. We are confident that  
our strategy will fuel further growth over the 
coming years and look forward to addressing  
the increasing number of opportunities for  
the Company.
Phil Hickman 
Non-Executive Chairman
22 October 2014
