 16 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
Chief exe Cutive’s st a tement
introduction
This has been an important year for easyJet. The business has traded resiliently 
during a recession and easyJet was one of the few airlines globally to make a 
profit this year with an underlying pre-tax profit of £43.7 million. Revenue 
grew by 12.9% to £2,666.8 million, this strong performance partially offsetting 
the £30.5 million reduction in interest income and the £86.1 million increase 
in unit fuel costs (equivalent to £1.63 per seat).
We have strengthened the fundamentals of the business, with improvements 
in network quality, lower cost deals with key suppliers and enhancements to 
easyJet.com giving easyJet a great platform for profitable growth in the 
medium-term from which to achieve a 15% return on equity. The Board has 
also agreed a fleet plan which will deliver around a 7.5% growth per annum in 
seats flown over the next five years. This fleet plan will enable easyJet to grow 
its share of the European short-haul market from around 7% to 10%.
Our people
We have outstanding people, including our front line cabin crew and pilots 
who are highly trained and professional. They all make a crucial contribution  
to our success and help to create an easyJet personality which is an important 
competitive advantage. I would like to thank them all for helping to deliver 
such a resilient performance in very difficult economic circumstances. We aim 
to have an open and egalitarian environment where everyone is valued for 
their contribution to easyJet. We consider it important to protect and develop 
this culture as the airline grows into a large pan-European business. Balancing 
the imperative for cost efficiency and supporting our culture in a pressurised 
and uncertain economic climate has been particularly challenging in 2009.
m arketplace review 
easyJet operates the leading network in European short-haul aviation, 
measured by presence on the top 100 routes. Around 200 carriers compete 
in the European short-haul market and the top five players, including easyJet, 
account for around 60% of seats flown with the rest of the market being 
highly fragmented. 
Whilst the average growth of the market over the past 20 years or so has 
been 4.5% per annum, in the past year overall capacity in the European 
short-haul market shrank by around 5% as airlines sought to mitigate losses 
driven by higher fuel costs and falling demand. easyJet continued its strategy  
of carefully targeting growth in markets from which weaker competitors are 
retreating in this period of recession. Thus easyJet is building strong, 
defendable market positions that will ensure it is well positioned for profitable 
growth once the European economy improves. 
Consequently, easyJet gained market share in the year and passenger numbers 
grew by 3.4% to 45.2 million and load factor improved by 1.4 percentage 
points to 85.5%. easyJet strengthened its position in a number of valuable 
markets including Paris, London Gatwick, Milan and Madrid, increasing its slots 
at constrained airports by over 10% in the year.
Regulatory update
In March 2009, the UK Competition Commission confirmed that BAA would 
be required to sell a number of its airports. Whilst easyJet welcomes the 
break-up of BAA and the recently confirmed sale of Gatwick, the London 
airports will continue to be monopolies, regardless of who owns them, due to 
the lack of spare capacity in the market. The sale highlights the need for tough 
and effective airport regulation to protect airlines and passengers from the 
new owners exploiting their market power.
easyJet continues to advocate the immediate reform of UK Air Passenger 
Duty (APD), which taxes passengers rather than flights, into an emissions-
based tax, and the phasing out of APD when aviation joins the European 
Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) in 2012. easyJet was an early advocate of 
aviation’s entry into the EU ETS as an international, market-based solution to 
ensuring aviation addresses its climate change responsibilities. We now look to 
andrew harrison 
Chief Executive
t his is an exceptionally 
resilient performance, which 
is a tribute to the strength  
of our business model and 
the quality of our people  
and our network. Annual report and accounts 2009 17 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
the Copenhagen Climate Summit in December to produce a sensible global 
agreement on aviation and climate change. Such a global agreement should 
recognise efficiency standards for aircraft, with the emphasis on planes utilising 
modern, more environmentally friendly technology.
Business performance
easyJet delivered a resilient performance in a tough and uncertain macro 
economic environment this year by continuing to focus on the four themes  
we outlined in the Interim report:
    Development of Europe’s No.1 air transport network q
Focus on margins through driving revenue and managing costs q
Management of cash, capital expenditure and fleet q
Mitigation of risk from volatility of fuel prices and currency rates q
Development of europe’ s no. 1 air transport network
easyJet’s unique differentiator is its network, with a leading presence on the 
top 100 routes in Europe and positions at primary airports that are attractive 
to time sensitive consumers. easyJet’s network has appeal across a broad 
range of European consumers both leisure and business. Additionally, half  
of easyJet’s passengers now originate from outside of the UK. This balanced 
revenue base has protected easyJet from the worst effects of recession and 
allowed us to win share from higher cost competitors. 
easyJet continued to actively manage its network by optimising routes. During 
the past year, 28 underperforming routes were closed and 70 new routes 
were launched. easyJet’s presence on the top 100 routes increased by six 
following our entry onto routes such as Rome to Milan and Paris to Barcelona.
Overall, easyJet’s capacity (measured in seats flown) grew by 1.8% during the 
year, with an increase of 16% in mainland Europe, focused on France (up 30%), 
Italy (up 78%) and Spain (up 16%). easyJet’s capacity at Gatwick grew by 12%, 
partly driven by the full year effect of the GB Airways acquisition on 31 January 
2008. Capacity was reduced in weaker performing markets such as Luton and 
the UK regions.
uK
At Gatwick, easyJet is now the leading airline with 39 based aircraft and a 30% 
share of the airport’s passengers and we continue to leverage that position to 
absorb competitive pressures. Longer sector routes are performing well and 
slots acquired with GB Airways were optimised in the period with business 
orientated routes being allocated to peak slots and leisure routes moved to 
later in the day. We are winning the competitive battle on traditional sun 
routes with excellent load factors, albeit with weaker market pricing. easyJet 
has also benefited from legacy competitor withdrawal on key business routes.
At Belfast, competitors are in retreat and both yields and load factors 
improved towards the latter part of the year. We had a strong performance  
at Manchester, where we now have three aircraft based. In addition, we have 
proactively reduced capacity at other UK bases which deliver below Company 
average margins.
Competitive forces  
acting on the european 
airline industry
internal rivalry
Consolidation over the past year has 
lowered the competitive pressures on 
Europe’s leading airlines. easyJet and 
Ryanair are increasingly dominant on 
short-haul whilst long-haul travel is 
increasingly dominated by just three 
airlines: Air France-KLM, Lufthansa 
and British Airways. Transatlantic joint 
ventures between STAR and Skyteam 
alliance members are also serving to 
reduce internal rivalry.
suppliers
Airports are natural monopolies and, 
despite regulation, have passed on 
higher charges to airlines over the last 
two years. Airlines continue to have 
little control over their fuel costs but 
use hedging tools to lower volatility.
substitutes
High speed train development across 
Europe has strong political backing 
and will continue to replace flights 
with short sector lengths. However 
such development is only 
economically viable on major trunk 
routes under 1,000km that do not 
cross water.
Buyers
Consolidation of the network airlines 
and the demise of the business class 
only start-ups has diminished the 
choice for consumers on long-haul.  
On short-haul easyJet is now providing 
consumers with an alternative to the 
flag carrier at primary airports but the 
reduction in capacity by the tour 
operators and weaker airlines has 
strengthened Ryanair and easyJet’s 
bargaining position with consumers.
new entrants
Access to financing has deteriorated 
substantially over the last year which 
makes it unlikely that we will see many 
new entrants in the medium term.
Source: Deutsche Bank 18 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009
q
easyJet has also leveraged its scale and the recession to renegotiate some key 
contracts with suppliers. Overall capacity in the European short-haul market  
is shrinking and as one of the few carriers in Europe growing capacity, easyJet 
is well placed to secure better terms at airports.
Following a global tendering process, easyJet has selected Zurich-based SR 
Technics for airframe maintenance support of easyJet’s core Airbus fleet for a 
period of 1 1 years. The agreement, valued at more than $1.6 billion, provides 
easyJet with a reduction in maintenance costs (excluding engines) of around 
£175 million over the life of the contract. SR Technics will provide a range of 
services including aircraft maintenance, component repair and overhaul, and 
logistics management for easyJet’s core Airbus fleet. 
A significant portion of our cost base is determined by governments and 
regulatory bodies, in particular, navigation costs and charges at regulated 
airports. We have increased our focus on these costs by constructively 
engaging the governments and regulators that set them. Alongside our work 
at Gatwick and Stansted, areas of particular focus have been the regulatory 
charges at the Paris airports and Amsterdam, UK navigation charges and the 
wider European approach to navigation costs. Looking forward, we will sustain 
this involvement and seek to further develop our influence across Europe.
m anagement of cash, capital expenditure and fleet
f leet plan
easyJet is making good progress towards its goal of operating a common 
aircraft fleet. Eliminating the Boeing and GB Airways sub-fleets will take  
cost out of the business and simplify our operations. 
The intention is to exit all aircraft in the two sub-fleets by 2012 to complete 
the realisation of ownership cost savings of around £40 million per annum.  
12 Boeing 737s and four GB Airways A320s were returned to lessors in the 
past year. The sale of the seven A321s from the GB Airways sub-fleet continues 
to progress with three A321s disposed of in the year with an associated profit 
on disposal of £1 1 million. It is anticipated that the remaining A321s will leave 
the fleet by September 2010. The five A319s previously held for sale have 
been returned to the fleet and will be used to support our mainland 
European expansion plans in 2010.
In the past year, easyJet took delivery of 15 A320 aircraft and 20 A319 aircraft 
under the terms of the Airbus easyJet agreement. Configured with 180 seats, 
the A320 will enable us to increase our capacity at peak times at slot 
constrained airports. Also, the aircraft operates with a cost per seat that is 
around 6% lower than the A319. 
The total fleet at 30 September 2009 comprised 181 aircraft. A further 70 
easyJet specification aircraft deliveries are currently planned for arrival over the 
next three years, a net increase of 26 aircraft over this period giving an expected 
total number of aircraft of 207 by 201 2. easyJet has a high degree of flexibility in 
its fleet planning arrangements and thus is able to manage the total number of 
aircraft in the fleet through a combination of deferrals and lease extensions.
  
Owned
Under 
operating 
lease
Under 
finance 
lease Total
Changes in 
year
Future 
deliveries 
(including 
exercised 
purchase 
rights) 
(note 1)
Un-
exercised 
purchase 
rights 
(note 2)
easyJet 
A320 family 103 46 6 155 35 72 88
Boeing 
737-700 – 17 – 17 ( 12) – –
GB Airways 
A320 family 4 5 – 9 (7) 2 –
107 68 6 181 16 74 88
Note 1:  The 72 future easyJet deliveries are anticipated to be delivered over the next four  
financial years, 27 in 2010, 22 in 201 1, 21 in 2012 and 2 in 2013. 
Note 2: Purchase rights may be taken on any A320 family aircraft and are valid until 2015.
 
Chief exe Cutive’s st a tement CO ntinue D
northern europe
In Germany, we improved the schedule during the year. Additional additional 
capacity has been added on routes to Milan, Copenhagen and Brussels from 
our Berlin base, which has improved our appeal to business travellers.  
We closed the base at Dortmund but profitable routes were retained.  
easyJet celebrated its tenth birthday in Switzerland in the past year where  
we have 12 aircraft based. easyJet’s position improved as competitors came 
off key routes and we expanded flying between Switzerland and the French 
regions and Scandinavia.
southern europe
easyJet has 1 3 based aircraft at Milan and we continue to outperform the 
competition, with significantly stronger load factors. easyJet has opened  
a base at Rome Fiumicino with three aircraft based there operating on both 
intra-European and Italian domestic routes. Madrid delivered improvements 
in load and profitability in the year as competitors continued to retreat and  
we optimised our schedule. easyJet now has 14 aircraft based in France and  
is France’s second largest airline with a 10% market share. France continues to 
be an attractive market for easyJet as low cost carrier penetration is half the 
European average and the market consequently has structurally higher fares.
f ocus on margins through driving revenue  
and managing costs
easyJet’s strategy is growth with margin improvement and therefore the 
management team continually focuses its efforts on all three drivers of  
margin, namely yield, ancillaries and costs. 
Margins in the past two years have been severely impacted by higher fuel 
prices with an aggregate £5.71 (£1.63 in 2009) increase in unit fuel costs,  
albeit profit per seat has only declined by £3.47 due to the strength of the 
revenue performance. 
In the past year, easyJet’s industry leading revenue performance, has been 
driven by proactive aircraft allocation into stronger markets such as Gatwick 
and Milan, and good commercial management especially in pricing, promotion 
and route selection.
In addition, easyJet is benefiting from its efforts to target the business travel 
market with around 15% of business passengers now originating through 
business orientated distribution channels. Business customers tend to book 
later, paying around 20% more than the average fare for their easyJet flights.
Ancillary revenue income grew by 38% to £9.77 per seat. The checked bag 
charge averaged £4.51 per seat, an increase of £1.73 per seat in the year and 
other ancillary revenues grew by £0.97 to £5.26 per seat. Going forward, 
easyJet’s in-flight revenues will benefit from the introduction of electronic 
point of sale equipment onboard and food offerings tailored by market and 
designed to appeal to a broader range of consumers. Improvements in 
website presentation should also result in improved conversion rates for  
car hire and hotels.
It is vital that easyJet aggressively manages its cost base so that it can continue 
to offer competitive fares profitably. Operating costs excluding fuel
6
, per seat 
rose 3.9% at constant currency in the year principally due to increased sector 
length, the planned lower aircraft utilisation over the winter as we mitigated 
margin dilution due to higher fuel costs and price increases at Gatwick which 
have cost around £10 million this year. 
In the second half of the year, we saw improvements in aircraft ownership and 
maintenance costs. easyJet also delivered improvements in its operations 
information technology infrastructure in the year and key systems to support 
the crew efficiency programme have now been implemented. We have now 
reviewed our progress against the £125 million cost savings target identified in 
2008 and believe there is greater potential to take cost out of the business. 
Based on the financial results for the year ended 30 September 2009, we have 
updated our targets and now expect to deliver cost savings of £190 million by 
the end of financial year 2012. After inflation and increases in regulated airport 
charges this will equate to approximately £1 per seat profit improvement. Annual report and accounts 2009 19 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
The total fleet plan over the period to 30 September 2012
3
 is as follows:
At 30 September:
easyJet 
A320  
family
Boeing 
737- 
700
GB  
Airways 
A320  
family
Total 
aircraft
2008 120 29 16 165
2009 155 17 9 181
2010 182 8 2 192
20 11 194 2 – 196
2012 207 – – 207
Note 3: Assumes assets held for sale are sold in financial year 2010.
Cash and capital expenditure
easyJet’s cash and money market deposits as at 30 September 2009 
exceeded £1 billion reflecting continued strong cash flow generation; 
additionally, easyJet has sufficient resources in place, through a combination of 
undrawn committed facilities and surplus cash, to fund future aircraft deliveries 
for at least the next 18 months. In the year, gearing increased from 29% to 
38% reflecting increased debt-financed capital expenditure as we continue 
the replacement of our Boeing sub-fleet.
m itigation of risk from volatility of fuel prices  
and currency rates
easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed by the Board. 
The aim of easyJet’s hedging policy is to reduce short-term earnings volatility 
and therefore the Company hedges forward, on a rolling basis, between 50% 
and 80% of the next 12 months anticipated requirements and between 20% 
and 50% of the following 12 months anticipated requirements. In the past year, 
easyJet’s fuel hedging caused an adverse variance to market rates of around 
£330 million, partially offset by a benefit of around £120 million from its US 
dollar hedging. Details of our current hedging arrangements are shown below: 
Percentage of anticipated requirement hedged
Fuel  
require- 
ment
US dollar  
require- 
ment
euro  
surplus  
sale
6 months ended 31 March 2010 72% 65% 87%
Rate $769/MT $1.78 €1.17
6 months ended 30 September 2010 6 1% 38% 76%
Rate $732/MT $1.64 €1.14
Year ended 30 September 2010 66% 51 % 80%
Rate $750/MT $1.72 €1.15
Year ended 30 September 201 1 22% 20% 35%
Rate $722/MT $1.62 €1.08
andrew harrison 
Chief Executive
Outlook
Whilst economic conditions remain challenging for consumer facing 
businesses and in particular airlines, easyJet’s scale, low cost and highly 
efficient business model and strong financial position will ensure it is  
able to take advantage of the current recessionary period by:
  driving cost out of the business; and  q
    carefully targeting capacity increases and share gains in valuable   q
markets across Europe ensuring that easyJet is well positioned  
to exploit profitable growth opportunities when economic  
conditions improve.
easyJet’s pre tax result in 2010 at current fuel prices
4
 and exchange rates
5
 
will benefit by around £100 million from lower fuel prices as higher price 
fuel hedges roll-off, slightly offset by a strengthening US dollar.
Capacity, measured in seats flown, for both the first half and the full  
year is expected to increase compared to the prior year by around  
10% as easyJet continues with its strategy of carefully targeting growth.  
The current expectation is that competitor capacity on easyJet routes  
will be down by low single digits.
Naturally, the impact of unemployment is expected to lead to some yield 
deterioration over the winter. With over 45% of the available first half seats 
now booked, total revenue per seat at constant currency in the first half of 
the year is expected to decline by a few percentage points compared to the 
prior year.
Total operating costs
6
 per seat, excluding fuel, at constant currency are 
expected to be broadly flat for the full year and up low single digits in the 
first half of the year compared to the prior period. Improvements in 
maintenance, crew and overhead costs will offset the mix impact of  
our continued growth in primary airports.
We expect a reduction in interest income of around £10 million compared 
to the prior year due to continued lower interest rates, which will mainly 
impact the first half result.
We see a tough winter ahead. We are focusing our efforts on further cost 
savings and efficiency programmes, together with optimising route 
profitability and aircraft allocation. We shall also benefit as our fuel hedges 
adjust to market prices. Putting all this together, at current fuel prices
4
 and 
currency rates
5
, we expect easyJet to make substantial profit improvement 
during 2010.
Note 4: US$657 per metric tonne at 13 November 2009.
Note 5: US$1.67/£ and €1.12/£ at 13 November 2009.
Note 6: Excludes interest income.
