 04 easyJet plc
q
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that your Company has delivered a resilient 
performance in what has been one of the most challenging trading 
environments for many years. Weak consumer confidence, combined  
with fuel and currency volatility, has made for an uncertain business climate  
in general this year, but especially so for airlines. 
Against this backdrop, easyJet is one of the few airlines anywhere to remain 
profitable this year with underlying pre-tax profits of £44 million, compared  
to £123 million last year. These results were driven primarily through good 
revenue performance offsetting the £86 million unit increase in fuel costs and 
£31 million reduction in interest income. We also took advantage of capacity 
cuts by other carriers to advance our position in the European short-haul 
market, gaining share in important markets such as Milan, Paris, Madrid and 
London Gatwick and increasing our slot portfolio at congested airports  
by over 10%. 
Business model and strategy
In a tough economic environment, easyJet’s continued resilient performance is 
a testament to the quality of its business model. Europe’s premier air transport 
network, our strong customer proposition and service delivery are linked to a 
highly efficient operating model that is predicated on simplicity and low cost.
As part of the annual strategy process, easyJet’s Board has agreed a fleet plan 
that will enable your Company to deliver growth of around 7.5% per annum
1
 
over the next five years. This fleet plan gives easyJet the ability to take 
advantage of the substantial commercial opportunities apparent in European 
short-haul aviation, whilst maximising margins and delivering positive cash 
generation beyond the period of the higher than normal capital expenditure 
associated with the replacement of the more expensive Boeing subfleet.  
The plan nevertheless retains sufficient in-built flexibility to allow a slowing  
of growth should our margins come under pressure.
Whilst some of our strategic debate during the past 12 months was perhaps a 
little too public, I believe that the subject matter and intensity of the discussion 
around the most appropriate rate of growth for the Company evidences the 
commitment of individual Board members to the Company’s cause. I am pleased 
to report that the whole Board believes we have come to a sensible outcome.
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
Annual report and accounts 2009
In a tough economic 
environment, our resilient 
performance is a testament  
to the quality of our  
business model. 05 easyJet plc
q
Overview
Business review
Governance
Accounts
Other information
Board
At easyJet we believe that good corporate governance is vital. At the heart  
of this is a strong Board team who both support and challenge the executive 
management so that together, we can unlock easyJet’s huge potential, whilst 
appropriately managing the risks associated with operating in such a volatile 
industry. easyJet is an exciting business that readily attracts talent and hence  
I am pleased to report on how we have been able to further strengthen the 
Board in the past year.
Sir Michael Rake was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director in June. Mike is an experienced international business leader and  
is currently Chairman of BT Group plc prior to which he was Chairman  
of KPMG International.
Keith Hamill joined the Board in February. Keith’s background as Chairman  
of Travelodge and Chairman of Go Fly! Ltd, prior to its acquisition by easyJet  
in 2002, is highly relevant and I have welcomed his robust and analytical 
approach to the assessment of risk in our Board discussions.
Bob Rothenberg MBE, senior partner in the accountancy firm of Blick 
Rothenberg, was appointed to the easyJet Board as a Non Executive Director 
with effect from 1 August 2009. His appointment was made under the terms 
of the Company’s Articles giving Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the Company’s 
founder, nominee director appointment rights on behalf of himself and 
easyGroup Holdings Limited, his private investment vehicle and a shareholder 
in easyJet plc. Bob’s appointment was formally endorsed by the members of 
the Company’s Nominations Committee and he brings valuable financial 
advisory and general business experience.
Sir Colin Chandler stepped down earlier in the year as Chairman after seven 
years service to the Company. We thank him for his significant contribution 
throughout his tenure, as he chaired the organisation during the period which 
saw easyJet achieve its current leading position in the European market.  
Jeff Carr, our Group Finance Director since 2005, also left to take on a larger 
challenge and we thank him too for his contribution. Whilst we complete  
the search process for Jeff’s successor, we are very pleased that Mark Adams 
has joined us on an interim basis as Chief Financial Officer. Mark has held a 
number of senior financial positions across a range of sectors and we welcome 
his contribution during this interim period. 
People
It has been a challenging year for easyJet’s people. I have spent a lot of time in 
the past few months with the easyJet senior management population and can 
testify to their exceptional level of passion for and belief in easyJet. In a tough 
industry this level of engagement is a real differentiator to the performance of 
the business. The commitment and enthusiasm of our crew continues to be a 
key driver of our successful customer proposition and the whole Board is 
grateful for the continued professionalism and commitment of all our people.
Industry regulation
The regulatory framework we operate in is crucial, as alongside ensuring that 
we can operate in a safe environment, it has a significant effect on both our cost 
base and the opportunities available for future growth. We are working across 
Europe to persuade governments and the European Commission to deliver 
regulation that provides stability, is sensible and allows us to compete fairly. 
easyJet was born out of the liberalisation brought about by EU open skies 
and has been at the forefront of promoting fair competition for the benefit of 
consumers. We continue in that spirit with our campaign to ensure that local 
airport monopolies are not able to capture monopoly rents. We also need  
to ensure that easyJet continues to operate on a level cost playing field with 
legacy European carriers absent protectionist measures imposed by national 
governments. We have also committed to a greater focus on the remaining 
structural inefficiencies, such as the management of airspace and its associated 
charging mechanisms.
We know it is important that our industry addresses its wider responsibilities, 
in particular to ensure we play our part in tackling climate change. We have 
now taken the first steps towards aviation’s entry into the European Emissions 
Trading System, where we will operate within a system that caps overall CO2
2
 
emissions, ensuring they are put on a downwards path towards agreed 
targets. However, environmental measures must deliver real gains in 
environmental efficiency, and cannot be used as a way to simply tax 
passengers and so we are continuing to work for the reform of UK Air 
Passenger Duty (APD) to operate as a genuine incentive to drive 
environmental change rather than the current blunt instrument to swell 
Government coffers.
Conclusion
As easyJet navigates what is still an uncertain and difficult landscape, I am 
confident that easyJet’s strengths will continue to prevail and that it will 
emerge as a clear winner in European short-haul aviation. I would also like in 
particular to thank Andy Harrison and his executive team for so successfully 
managing the Company during such a challenging year.
Note 1: Measured in seats flown.  
Note 2: Carbon dioxide.
Annual report and accounts 2009
Sir David Michels 
Non Executive Interim Chairman
