 100%
In the past year, easyJet delivered a considerably improved financial result 
as pre-tax profit increased by £99.3 million to £154.0 million despite 
some significant challenges. External factors such as the disruption 
to European airspace due to the eruption of the Eyjafjalla volcano, 
unprecedented levels of snow disruption and high levels of ATC industrial 
action have combined with some operational problems to make this past 
year an exceptionally tough one. 
easyJet’s continued strong performance in the face of major disruption is 
a tribute to the professionalism and commitment of all of easyJet’s people 
and the Board and I would to thank them for their efforts which are very 
much appreciated.
The Board and strategy
Carolyn McCall OBE and Chris Kennedy joined the easyJet Board in July 
of this year as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, respectively. 
Both bring significant experience in operational roles within consumer 
facing businesses and the Board and I are delighted to be working 
alongside them as they take easyJet forward. 
 Chairman’s statement
easyJet’s continued strong 
performance in the face of  
major disruption is a tribute to the 
professionalism and commitment  
of all of easyJet’s people and the  
Board and I would like to thank  
them for their efforts which are  
very much appreciated.
Professionalism & commitment 
of easyJet people
Where people make a difference.
Sir Michael Rake
Non Executive Chairman
06
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 As Carolyn outlines in her Chief Executive’s review, she has over the past 
few months concluded a review of the business. Whilst it is clear from 
the operational issues experienced this summer that the business had 
lost focus on some of the basics, the financial results demonstrate that 
easyJet continues to make progress against its goal of delivering market 
share growth and improving returns thus underlining that easyJet’s 
business model and strategy are sound. Carolyn and Chris will provide 
the Company with a leadership and focus that will ensure improved 
execution of the strategy going forward and a renewed focus on 
customers and the engagement of our people.
easyJet is strongly positioned to take advantage of the continuing 
profitable growth opportunities in European short-haul aviation. This 
growth, combined with the margin improvement through a tight focus 
on costs and accessing new revenue opportunities, means that easyJet 
is poised to continue the strong operating cash generation of the past 
few years. Consequently, the Board now feel that the time is right to 
set in place a formula to trigger a dividend payment in years when 
the Company is profitable whilst at the same time ensuring that the 
Company remains prudently financed with a strong, liquid balance sheet. 
This will ensure that shareholders are able to benefit directly from the 
Company’s success as easyJet continues to take market share.
Brand licence
On 1 1 October 2010, your Board announced that easyJet, Sir Stelios 
Haji-Ioannou and easyGroup had agreed, subject to independent 
shareholder approval, to a variation of the licence agreement providing 
for the Company’s use of the easyJet brand and to remove the rights 
granted to Sir Stelios to appoint himself Chairman and to easyGroup to 
appoint Board Directors. The Board believes that the revised agreement 
better aligns the interests of easyJet shareholders and the licensor and 
that it is beneficial to end the uncertainty caused by this long running 
dispute and enables the Company to move forward.
Industry regulation 
The aviation industry plays a central role in global wealth creation and in 
the UK alone it contributes £1 1 billion to GDP. However, this does have 
an environmental impact. Aviation contributes 2% of global man-made 
greenhouse gas emissions and we know it is important that our industry 
addresses its wider responsibilities, in particular to ensure that we play 
our part in tackling climate change. 
However, if this is done through purely constraining demand the 
economic and social benefits of travel will be put at risk. It is therefore 
critical that the right policy framework is put in place to deliver 
sustainable aviation, allowing continued growth while putting emissions 
on a downward trend. This means creating a framework that drives 
airlines to use existing aircraft more efficiently but which also ensures 
airframe and engine manufacturers bring forward the next generation 
of aircraft as soon as possible. We also need to ensure that air travel 
taxes are not blunt, ineffective taxes on passengers such as APD in the 
UK, but emissions based taxes that are designed to encourage airlines 
to minimise their impact upon the environment. 
The regulatory framework that easyJet operates in is crucial, as alongside 
ensuring that we can operate in a safe environment, it has a significant 
effect on both our cost base and the opportunities available for future 
growth. We are working across Europe to persuade governments and 
the European Commission to deliver regulation that provides stability, 
is sensible and allows us to compete fairly.
Conclusion
This is my first year as Chairman of easyJet and I am delighted to have 
taken over the Chairmanship of a company which has achieved so much 
since it started 15 years ago. I look forward to working with the whole 
team at easyJet to continue to unlock the Company’s potential.
Sir Michael Rake
Non Executive Chairman
Pre-tax profit
Increase of £99 million in pre-tax profits despite  
some significant challenges in the year.
£154m
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information
07
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
