 Our people make a difference
I have been truly impressed by easyJet’s people. Our front line cabin crew 
and pilots are highly trained and committed. Their warmth and focus on 
passenger care helps create a connection with our customers which 
makes us a more popular and successful airline and they need to be 
recognised for this. Our engineering, management and administration 
teams are equally important to the success of the business and I’d like to 
thank the whole team at easyJet for their commitment and hard work 
over what has been a very tough year in the airline industry. 
Taking a fresh look at the business
Over the past couple of months the senior management team has 
conducted an end to end review of the business. We have examined all 
of the assumptions that underline our business plan. We have looked 
carefully at the broader market in which we operate and the trends that 
will challenge us and provide us with opportunities.
Our conclusion is that the business model and strategy is delivering for 
customers and shareholders. We have a unique network which will 
enable us to expand in Europe as our routes and low fares  
are attractive to customers.
Market place review 
We see clear opportunities for easyJet to continue to take market share 
as charter traffic continues to decline, as weaker short-haul carriers 
retrench or fail and as new infrastructure capacity comes on stream. 
Low cost carrier penetration across Europe is expected to increase as 
several major markets including France, Switzerland, Italy, Netherlands 
and Portugal see the penetration of low cost carrier traffic increase to 
around 50% in line with that now seen in the UK and Spain.
Passenger growth in the European short-haul market is expected to 
continue at between 3% and 4% per annum, with the majority of the 
growth in point to point business and leisure travel.
Around 200 carriers currently compete in the European short-haul 
aviation market and the top five players, including easyJet, account for 
around 60% of seats flown with the rest of the market being highly 
fragmented. The average growth of the market over the past 20 years 
or so has been 4.5% per annum. In the past year, overall capacity in the 
European short-haul market grew by 4.2%.
easyJet is the only pan European short-haul carrier with a significant 
position in major airports and operates the leading network in European 
short-haul aviation measured by presence on the top 100 routes. 
Our network not only ensures that easyJet is well positioned to capture 
leisure traffic but also will enable easyJet to continue to build its share 
of the £18 billion per annum European short-haul air travel market.
Whilst we anticipate that the European short-haul market will continue 
to grow, the industry is clearly cyclical and profitable opportunities for 
expansion will not be linear. Therefore flexibility in fleet planning will be 
key in order to seize strategic opportunities when they emerge whilst 
not putting excess capacity into uneconomic markets. Consequently, 
easyJet has built flexibility into its fleet planning arrangements that 
means that its growth rate in terms of seats flown can be flexible and 
dependant on the opportunities available and economic conditions.
Introduction
This is my first Chief Executive’s review at easyJet and I am proud to be 
leading a company that has achieved so much in the past 15 years. 
easyJet was born out of the liberalisation of European aviation by 
'Open Skies'. It has been a true industry innovator pioneering the use 
of the web and low cost air travel centred around a transparent pricing 
model. Post 9/1 1, easyJet took bold strategic moves that have been the 
foundation of the Company’s present day success including the initial 
entry into primary airports such as London Gatwick. Over the past five 
years, easyJet has grown from a UK centric airline to develop a significant 
presence in mainland Europe built around valuable positions at slot 
constrained airports. 
The strength of easyJet’s business model, which is centred around 
offering low fares to convenient airports, is reflected in the performance 
of the past year. easyJet has delivered a robust financial result against 
a difficult backdrop. Reported pre-tax profit grew by £99.3 million to 
£154.0 million driven by a strong revenue performance as total revenue 
grew by 1 1.5% to £2,973.1 million. Return on equity grew by 3.1 
percentage points to 8.6%. easyJet also generated significant positive 
cash flows in the period with cash and money market deposits at  
30 September 2010 totalling £1,171.9 million (30 September 2009: 
£1,074.9 million). 
Since I joined the Company in July, my priorities have been to spend 
as much time as possible out in the network with our people to 
understand their perspective on the business; the mitigation of the 
operational issues experienced in July; resolution of the Brand Licence 
dispute; and importantly, taking a fresh look at the business to assess 
the opportunities available to it, in conjunction with a review of easyJet’s 
capital structure to ensure easyJet has the financial resources necessary 
to support its future plans. 
 Business review
 Chief Executive’s statement
The leading positions that easyJet  
has built at primary airports gives 
easyJet the platform for future 
expansion in Europe.
Carolyn McCall obe 
Chief Executive
08
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 Business model and vision
easyJet’s vision is to ‘Turn Europe Orange’. This will be achieved by:
 – Ensuring no compromise on safety;
 – Giving our customers low fares to convenient airports at convenient 
times of the day combined with helpful and friendly service that is 
reliable and punctual;
 – Smart cost management so we can continue to offer 
competitive fares;
 – Attracting talented people to easyJet and keeping them with us 
because easyJet is an enjoyable and challenging place to work; and
 – Delivering a good return to shareholders by focusing on improving 
margins to achieve a profit per seat of £5.
easyJet has a number of opportunities to drive margin improvement:
 – To grow fares through continued network optimisation and driving 
the business traveller proposition harder;
 – To grow ancillary revenues through both yield management of fees 
and charges and partner and in-flight revenues through better 
execution and innovation such as easyJet Holidays; and 
 – Smart cost management by reducing complexity and disruption costs 
in the business and continuing to drive procurement initiatives in 
airports, ground handling and maintenance.
Capital structure review
It is vital that easyJet has the financial resources in place to support 
its expansion plans and to ensure it can withstand external shocks. 
Consequently, we have performed a rigorous review of the balance 
sheet including modelling downside scenarios such as extreme fuel prices 
to ensure that we have the appropriate capital structure going forward.
We will continue with a conservative policy including a liquidity target of 
£4 million cash per aircraft, a leverage cap of £10 million adjusted gross 
debt per aircraft and a 50% limit on net gearing.
easyJet is highly cash generative and will continue to be as the business 
grows and improves its margins. easyJet has also been able to access 
financing for its aircraft at attractive rates. Consequently, the Board 
is confident that easyJet has the ability to maintain a conservative 
balance sheet whilst funding growth and a regular formulaic return 
to shareholders. We therefore intend to commence the payment of 
an annual dividend based on a dividend cover of five times. The first 
dividend will be payable in 2012 in respect of the year ending 
30 September 201 1.
Return on equity (ROE) has been an important target for easyJet.  
We continue to target improvement in ROE however, with the 
introduction of a dividend policy and the belief that easyJet needs to 
maintain a strong balance sheet, the Board is of the view that Return  
on capital employed (ROCE) is a more relevant target. Our aim will  
be to achieve an average post tax ROCE of 12% through the cycle.
Disruption 
easyJet’s results this year reflect the high levels of disruption from snow, 
volcanic ash, ATC strike action and easyJet’s own operational difficulties. 
The combination of these events led to incremental costs of £97.9 million 
versus the prior year.
During December 2009 and January 2010, Europe experienced 
exceptional snowfall causing the closure of many airports. Despite this 
easyJet managed to fly 90% of its programme during the affected period. 
Nonetheless, the impact of this disruption on our customers and people 
was significant. easyJet incurred £20.8 million of additional costs associated 
with this disruption and the pre-tax result, including lost contribution, 
in the first half of the year was adversely impacted by £25 million. 
The disruption to European airspace due to the Eyjafjalla volcano in 
April and May was significant. easyJet was forced to cancel 7,314 flights, 
disrupting 960,000 passengers. The lost contribution and additional cost 
as a result of this event were £30 million and £27.3 million respectively.
easyJet gave priority to supporting its customers affected by the volcanic 
ash disruption and was able to repatriate approximately 200,000 
stranded passengers within five days by implementing the following 
special measures:
 – Operating effectively a full flying programme as soon as the 
skies reopened;
 – Operating special rescue flights to hot spot areas where many 
passengers were stranded. These flights were operated with 
additional aircraft leased at easyJet’s expense;
 – Prioritising stranded passengers over new sales. easyJet suspended 
sales on many routes to give priority to our repatriation efforts; and
 – Allowing customers to fly on stand-by. easyJet set up stand-by desks 
in airports to try to help stranded passengers get on the next 
available flight.
Prioritising stranded passengers
easyJet repatriated around 200,000 passengers within  
five days during the volcanic ash disruption. 
200,000
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information
09
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 Over the summer, easyJet experienced operational difficulties, including  
a high level of cancellations and poor on time performance (OTP). 
Following a thorough review, it is clear that the root cause of these 
operational problems was that easyJet did not have the right number of 
crew in the right locations at the right times. High levels of ATC industrial 
action across Europe further exacerbated the problems.
When the extent of the problems came to light, easyJet swiftly put 
in place a series of mitigating actions including sub-chartering aircraft. 
Throughout this period our priority was ensuring no compromises 
on safety and seeking to minimise the impact of these issues on our 
passengers. Subsequently, we have seen an improvement in OTP while 
the number of cancellations has reduced. Our objective now is to ensure 
acceptable levels of OTP return for summer 201 1. 
Going forward we have implemented a series of measures to ensure 
these issues are fundamentally resolved including ensuring realistic 
planning assumptions for crew numbers, greater use of flexible rosters, 
a more robust management structure and more effective communication 
with the crew. These measures will not incur additional net costs to 
easyJet but will deliver savings as disruption costs are reduced.
Brand licence resolution
On 1 1 October 2010, we announced a resolution to the ongoing brand 
licence dispute. The proposed variations to the brand licence will ensure 
that we have a more workable agreement going forward that allows 
easyJet to carry out all current commercial activities and innovate 
without restriction within the parameters of the airline and airport 
environment. The proposed variations will be the subject of a 
shareholder circular that was issued on 16 November 2010.
Business performance
easyJet’s strategy is centred around achieving profitable growth and 
delivering improved returns. Therefore, the management team 
continually focuses its efforts on both driving revenue and managing 
costs. Margins improved in the period, mainly driven by a unit fuel cost 
decrease equivalent to £122.7 million, offset by lower interest income  
of £1 1.3 million and £97.9 million of additional disruption costs.
Revenue
Total revenue per seat was £53.07 in the year, an increase of 3.3% at 
constant currency; a good performance against a difficult backdrop and 
strong comparators driven by the strength of easyJet’s network, good 
route management and growth in ancillary revenues.
Focused network development
easyJet’s unique differentiator is its network, with a leading presence on 
the top 100 routes in Europe and positions at primary airports that are 
attractive to time sensitive consumers. Additionally, 53% of easyJet’s 
passengers now originate from outside the UK, an increase of 
3 percentage points compared with the prior year. 
easyJet has continued to manage the performance of its network 
by careful allocation of aircraft to routes and optimisation of its flying 
schedule. During the past year, 28 underperforming routes were closed 
and 1 15 new routes were launched. easyJet closed its base at East 
Midlands airport and reallocated the aircraft to bases where it will be 
able to drive an improved return. easyJet now operates 25 A320 aircraft 
across the network and this has enabled us both to extend our network 
to longer range destinations such as Israel, Egypt and Turkey and to fly 
a higher number of passengers at highly slot congested airports such 
as Paris Orly.
easyJet continues to focus its efforts on the business travel market through 
adding new routes to business destinations, improving frequencies and 
increasing the proportion of flights at peak times of the day. easyJet 
continues to see a yield premium of about 20% to 30% from flights 
booked via the GDS and Business API.
Overall, easyJet’s capacity (measured in seats flown) grew by 6% during 
the year, with an increase of 16% in mainland Europe with growth 
focused on France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland.
UK
Consolidating UK performance
The network strategy in the UK is focused around consolidating our 
position as the UK’s leading airline. Capacity in the UK was flat overall 
but careful capacity allocation decisions delivered a good revenue 
performance across all of our UK bases. 
At London Gatwick seats flown grew by 9% and we increased based 
capacity by a further three aircraft to 42 over the summer following the 
withdrawal of Aer Lingus from the routes on which they competed 
directly with easyJet.
Capacity elsewhere in the UK reduced by 6% as easyJet closed its base 
at East Midlands in January 2010 and terminated underperforming routes 
in Luton. There were good performances at a number of UK regional 
bases, particularly at Belfast and Edinburgh following competitor retreat. 
We continue to invest in our Manchester base with a range of business 
and leisure routes.
 Chief Executive’s statement
continued
Leading the way
We have a leading presence at  
a number of airports across Europe.
No.1
10
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 Mainland Europe
Growing our footprint through increased based  
capacity in Switzerland, France and Italy
In Switzerland three new aircraft were introduced and seats flown  
grew by 12%. Frequencies were increased on routes such as Geneva to 
London Gatwick, Paris Orly and Barcelona. An A320 was introduced at 
Geneva to enable flights to longer range destinations such as Sharm El 
Sheikh. easyJet also took advantage of Ryanair’s retreat from Basel to 
add additional capacity into the market.
France is a compelling investment opportunity for easyJet. Low cost 
carrier penetration is half the European average and easyJet is uniquely 
positioned to grow in France due to its decision to put its crew onto local 
terms and conditions. easyJet grew capacity by 22% in France in the year, 
against market growth of just 1%. At Paris Orly, easyJet has added a 
seventh aircraft and now has ten aircraft deployed at Paris Charles 
De Gaulle. At Lyon, a third aircraft has been added as we have taken 
advantage of Air France’s reduced capacity on routes such as Madrid 
and Barcelona; a fourth aircraft will be added over the winter.
Capacity in Italy increased by 25%, with 16 aircraft now based at Milan 
Malpensa where easyJet launched eight new routes and increased 
frequencies on business routes such as Rome, Madrid, Barcelona 
and Amsterdam. 
Growing our footprint through increased inbound  
flying in Germany and Spain
In Germany, easyJet continued to refocus its offering. We have increased 
capacity on key business routes out of Berlin such as Brussels, 
Copenhagen and London Gatwick. easyJet has also increased its 
presence in Scandinavia and we now have thirteen routes operating  
out of the region.
In Madrid, capacity grew by 20% in the period, with eight aircraft now 
deployed there. The Spanish market continues to be competitive 
however both city and beach in-bound routes continue to perform well.
Portugal is an important market for easyJet and we are already its 
second largest airline. In October, we announced that we are opening 
a base at Lisbon in winter 201 1. This will enable us to further develop 
our business there. 
Ancillary revenues
Ancillary revenues grew in the year by 43 pence per seat to £10.20 
despite regulatory changes to the sales process for insurance products 
which led to a reduction in insurance income of £8 million in the year 
and changes in VAT legislation which negatively impacted in-flight income 
by £2 million. There were improved performances in fees and charges 
and bag revenue. 
However, hotel and car hire revenues were down versus the prior year. 
This performance is disappointing and we are reviewing this area to 
ensure that we have the correct product offerings to underpin our 
growth plans going forward. 
Smart cost management
It is vital that easyJet effectively manages its cost base so that it can 
continue to offer competitive fares profitably. However, it is important 
that cost management is sensibly executed and does not lead to 
sub-optimal decisions such as those made around crewing this year. 
Total cost per seat excluding fuel, rose by 5.2% at constant currency to 
£36.15 in the period, principally due to disruption and wet leasing costs. 
Excluding the effect of additional disruption, cost per seat rose by 2.2%  
at constant currency to £35.14 as improvements in aircraft ownership 
and maintenance costs partially offset increased airport and navigation 
charges. We are making good progress to be on track to deliver against 
our £190 million savings programme.
Systems implementation to drive reduced fuel consumption 
and improvements in crew efficiency 
easyJet has maintained the level of fuel burn in the period. Whilst crew 
productivity savings were delivered in the year, the way in which these 
savings were achieved drove substantially more cost in the business as 
we suffered disruption due to crew shortages in part of the network. 
Consequently, we have decided to stabilise the operation during 201 1 
and have built more resilience into our crew planning. These additional 
costs will be offset by reduced disruption and wet leasing costs.
20%
Capacity growth in Madrid
In Madrid, we have 8 aircraft and increased  
capacity by 20% in the year. 
easyJet grows French capacity
We increased capacity in the year by 22%  
against a total market growth of only 1%.
22%
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information
11
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010  Chief Executive’s statement
continued
Leverage scale and the recession to deliver  
procurement efficiencies 
The renegotiation of our maintenance contract with SR Technics will 
drive savings of around £17 million per annum. We have also maintained 
our approach of leveraging our scale and buying power to challenge 
airports on the charges they levy.
Efficient fleet management 
easyJet continues to make good progress towards its goal of operating  
a common aircraft fleet. Eliminating the Boeing and ex-GB Airways 
sub-fleets will take cost out of the business and simplify our operations. 
The intention is to exit all aircraft in the two sub-fleets by 2012 to 
complete the realisation of ownership cost savings of around £30 million 
per annum. Nine Boeing 737s and three ex-GB Airways A320s were 
returned to lessors in the year. The remaining four ex-GB Airways  
A321s exited the fleet in November 2010. 
We have benchmarked easyJet cost categories against other low  
cost carriers and identified further efficiencies. We have named this 
programme easyJet Lean and the £190 million cost savings programme 
will be folded up into this initiative. One of our cost saving plans we have 
already stepped up is to build a greater proportion of A320s into our 
fleet plan. There are currently 25 easyJet 180 seat A320s in the fleet and 
our review of their introduction has shown a reduction in cost per seat 
which has led to a significant increase in contribution, although as you 
might expect there is a slight yield decrease. This is a perfect example  
of how we aim to balance yield and cost to improve margins.
Regulated costs 
A significant proportion of easyJet’s cost base is determined by 
governments and regulators and we continue to constructively engage 
with them on a number of issues that will impact easyJet’s cost base in 
the future. The closure of European airspace because of volcanic ash  
and the wide scale air traffic control disruption across Europe have 
highlighted some of the weaknesses of the current policy framework. 
We are supporting efforts to put in place a European framework to  
deal with future crises. The volcanic ash disruption also exposed the 
weaknesses in EU2004/261, which effectively requires airlines to act  
as insurer of last resort. 
We will work with the EU on consumer rules to ensure that they  
strike the right balance between the benefits that regulation brings  
to consumers over its costs to the industry. The strike disruption  
to air traffic control is due to the wider economic pressures facing 
Europe and union concerns about the forthcoming Single European  
Sky programme. We expect disruption to continue in 201 1; we will  
press for measures to be put in place that alleviate the impact of  
these strikes and push for faster reform. 
Our increasing focus on primary airports increases the importance  
of regulated airport charges to the business. We continue to work  
with airports and regulators to ensure that charges are as low as  
possible and also that charging structures do not discriminate against 
easyJet. In the UK, we are active participants in the CAA’s work on 
airport regulation methodologies and competition; we are also  
involved in regulation in the Netherlands, France and Belgium.
We are now at the initial stages of aviation’s entry into the EU Emissions 
Trading System (ETS); 2010 is a monitoring year ahead of the 
requirement in 2012 to have permits to cover emissions. We support 
moves towards a global framework for addressing aviation’s impact on 
climate change. However, this must not come at the expense of schemes 
such as ETS. These schemes are the right way to address aviation’s 
environmental obligations. We also remain concerned about the 
imposition of passenger taxes across Europe, with Germany introducing 
a €8 passenger tax for European flights. We can see no rationale for 
these taxes and where they remain we will continue to argue for their 
reform of any passenger taxes into environmentally efficient plane taxes, 
which tax flights rather than passengers.
Fleet plan
In the period, easyJet took delivery of eight A320 aircraft and nineteen 
A319 aircraft under the terms of the easyJet Airbus agreement. 
Configured with 180 seats, the A320 is enabling us to increase our 
capacity at peak times at slot constrained airports. The aircraft also 
operates with a cost per seat that is around 6% lower than the A319. 
The total fleet at 30 September 2010 comprised 196 aircraft. A further 
45 easyJet specification aircraft deliveries are currently planned for arrival 
over the next three years. The fleet is expected to comprise 220 aircraft 
by 30 September 2013.
easyJet has flexibility in its fleet planning arrangements and thus is able  
to manage the total number of aircraft in the fleet through a combination 
of deferrals and lease extensions.
25 A320 aircraft within our fleet
We have 25 A320 aircraft within our fleet at 30 September, after taking 
delivery of 8 new A320 aircraft in the year. This aircraft operates with a 
cost per seat that is around 6% lower than the A319.
25 A320s
Annual maintenance savings
easyJet expects to make around £17 million of savings per annum 
following the renegotiation of the SR Technics contract.
£17m
A flexible approach to fleet planning
27 new aircraft have been delivered in the year and we are  
able to manage our future fleet size through deferrals and  
lease extensions.
1 96 aircraft
12
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 Fleet as at 30 September 2010:
Owned
Operating 
leases
Finance  
leases Total
Changes in 
the year
Future  
committed
 deliveries
3
Unexercised 
purchase
 rights
4
easyJet 
A320 
family 122 52 8 182 27 45 88
Boeing 
737-700 – 8 – 8 (9) – –
GB 
Airways 
A320 
family 4 2 – 6 (3) 2 –
 126 62 8 196 15 47 88
Note 3: The 45 future easyJet deliveries and 2 ex-GB Airways deliveries are 
anticipated to be delivered over the next three financial years, 25 in 2011, 18 in 
2012 and 4 in 2013. 
Note 4: Purchase options and rights may be taken on any A320 family aircraft and 
are valid until 2015.
The total fleet plan over the period to 30 September 2013 is as follows:
easyJet 
A320 family
Boeing 
737-700
GB Airways
A320 family
5
Total aircraft
5
 
At 30 September 2010 182 8 6 196 
At 30 September 201 1 202 2 – 204
At 30 September 2012 214 – – 214
At 30 September 2013 218 – 2 220
Note 5: Four ex-GB Airways A321 aircraft exited the fleet in November 2010.
Hedging positions
easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed by the 
Board. The aim of easyJet’s hedging policy is to reduce short term 
earnings volatility and therefore the Company hedges forward, on a 
rolling basis, between 50% and 80% of the next 12 months anticipated 
requirements and between 20% and 50% of the following 12 months 
anticipated requirements. Details of our current hedging arrangements 
are set out below:
Percentage of anticipated  
requirement hedged
Fuel 
requirement
US dollar 
requirement
Euro  
surplus  
sale
Full year ending  
30 September 201 1 70% 66% 64%
Rate $734/MT $1.60 €1.10
Full year ending  
30 September 2012 23% 40% 21%
Rate $802/MT $1.57 €1.11
Outlook
Capacity measured in seats flown, adjusting for the impact of disruption 
is expected to increase compared to the prior year by around 8% as 
easyJet continues with its strategy of carefully targeting growth. On a 
reported basis capacity is expected to be up by 12% for the full year and 
14% in the first half. The current expectation is that competitor capacity 
on easyJet routes will be up by low single digits.
Over 45% of the available first half seats now sold and forward bookings 
are in line with the prior year. Total revenue per seat in the first half is 
expected to be broadly flat on a reported basis (at current exchange 
rates)
6
 versus the prior year and slightly up by at constant currency 
despite a greater proportion of A320 aircraft in the fleet and the impact 
of increased APD in the UK and its introduction into Germany.
Total reported cost per seat excluding fuel (at current exchange rates)
6
 
is anticipated to fall by around 4% on an underlying basis, assuming 
normal levels of disruption. Improvements in maintenance and 
ownership costs and a reduction in disruption related costs will offset  
the impact of planned increases in crew costs as we build more resilience 
in to the operation.
The economic outlook in Europe remains uncertain and the continuing 
level of ATC industrial action is causing disruption to our flying 
programme and driving additional cost. However, the strength of the 
easyJet network combined with its proposition of offering consumers 
the best value fares to convenient airports means that easyJet is well 
positioned for future success. 
Note 6: US$1.60/£, €1.18/£ and US$788 per metric tonne at noon on  
15 November 2010.
Carolyn McCall obe 
Chief Executive
Hedged against fuel price increases
We have 70% of our anticipated fuel requirement  
for 2011 hedged using forwards at $734/MT.
70%
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information
13
easyJet plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
