 Thomson Intermedia plc   Annual Accounts 2007 Page 6 Page 7
Chairman’s Statement
The fifteen months to 30 April 2007 have been an important period for the Group, both operationally and 
financially. Although revenue from Development projects was lower than our original expectations, Core 
business has continued to perform well in the UK and there has been some strong international growth.  
The signing of a partnership agreement in October with WPP’s GroupM was a significant achievement as 
part of a wider strategy to develop a new route to market.
Overall the Group increased revenue by £8.9m to £20.0m for the fifteen month period (12 months 2006: 
£11.1m).  As previously announced, we have changed our year end in this financial report from 31 January 
to 30 April.  On a proforma 12 months basis to 30 April 2007, total Group revenue was £15.8m, a 16% 
increase over the prior year, and underlying operating profit before tax for the Core business was £2.3m, a 
33% increase.  Underlying diluted earnings per share for the 15 months was 8.01p (2006: 7.30p).  
The Board is not recommending a dividend at this stage given the high growth nature of the Group and 
the numerous opportunities for development.  However, we are a cash generative business and this policy 
will be reviewed on an ongoing basis. 
Our ambition is to become the essential provider of business critical media intelligence, measurement 
and evaluation services to UK and global customers.  We see our continuing drive to create transparency 
and accountability between advertisers, agencies and media owners being welcomed by our clients 
and potential clients.  The industry has required, for some years, quality timely data on which to base 
important business decisions.  Thomson Intermedia is in a market- leading position to set the standard for 
this data and provide a critical service to its customers around the world.
During the last fifteen months, we have consolidated our position as the pre-eminent provider of media 
auditing and competitive monitoring in the UK.  Our monitoring service has been enhanced with a new 
email monitoring product and a real-time news service.  Our market share of UK media auditing has 
increased to 64% and we are the only company able to offer a credible audit of online advertising.  
Internationally, our US subsidiary increased its revenues by 57% and is now a leading player in a relatively 
immature market segment.  We recently completed transactions in Spain, Greece and Cyprus and are 
actively pursuing opportunities in other key markets.
None of this progress would have been possible without the people within the Group who look after our 
clients and utilise our technology to capture and analyse the vast volumes of data we hold.  I would like, 
on behalf of the Board, to thank all the employees of the Group for their enormous efforts and dedication.  
We have also made some important changes at Board level.  I am delighted in my first Chairman’s report 
to welcome Michael Uzielli and Michael Greenlees.
Michael Uzielli joined as Finance Director on 1 April 2007 from British Airways and brings with him both 
extensive financial management expertise as well as a strategic perspective that is already being felt 
around the Board table.   Page 6 Page 7 Thomson Intermedia plc   Annual Accounts 2007
Michael Greenlees, a hugely respected figure in the marketing services industry, has joined as a Non-
Executive Director.  His insights into the advertising industry are providing a new dimension to the Board 
discussions and his experience in the leadership of growing companies is very welcome.
Looking forward to the year ahead, the Group is now well positioned to demonstrate its potential.  All of 
the key operational capabilities, product, data, technology and route to market are in place to grow the 
business substantially.  The first quarter has shown increased focus on our clients, leading to encouraging 
renewal rates and service upgrades.  
Our challenge for the current year is to capitalise on the substantial opportunities which are available to us.
Michael Higgins
Chairman
23 July 2007
