 Thomson Intermedia plc   Annual Accounts 2007 Page 8 Page 9
Joint Chief Executives’ Review
Overview
Thomson Intermedia made good progress during the past fifteen months with Group revenues reaching 
£20 million, although revenue from Development projects was lower than originally anticipated.  As 
outlined below there have been a number of significant achievements which position the Group well for 
future growth:
•	 Completion	of	the	integration	of	billetts,	significantly	bolstering	the	overall	management	team
•	 Str engthening	the	Boar d	with	thr ee	appointments,	including	a	new	Finance	Dir ector
•	 Signing	of	a	partnership	agr eement	with	WPP’ s	Gr oupM,	the	world’ s	leading	media	agency	gr oup
•	 Development	of	a	suite	of	tailor ed	online	systems	to	support	a	new	r oute	to	market
•	 Exploitation	of	the	exclusive	captur e	of	advertising	fr om	over	90%	of	r egional	newspapers
•	 Str ong	gr owth	of	the	inter national	business,	particularly	in	the	US,	to	20%	of	total	r evenues
•	 Completion	of	a	licensing	deal	for	media	monitoring	in	Gr eece	and	Cyprus
•	 Investment	in	a	media	auditing	business	in	Spain	
The Group classifies its business into two types: Core and Development.  The Core business, 
encompassing Subscriptions, Consultancy and International income streams, has continued to grow 
strongly. As highlighted earlier this year, Development income was lower than originally anticipated as a 
result of delays in securing pipeline opportunities.  However, these projects remain active and although 
they have the potential to be important sources of income, the shortfall has not impacted the underlying 
performance and progress of the Group.
The new Finance Director initiated a comprehensive review of the Group’s assets and finances and 
consequently a more rigorous approach was adopted to revenue recognition as part of the year end close 
process.  This led to a one-off adjustment to revenue and costs at the year end.
Strategy & Positioning
Thomson Intermedia aims to become the essential provider of business critical media intelligence, 
measurement and evaluation services to UK and global customers.  The Group operates in a fast-
changing market, historically based on trust, where the need for reliable, comprehensive media data has 
never been greater.  There is also an increasing focus by advertisers on the value and effectiveness of their 
marketing spend, often their largest external cost.  
Thomson Intermedia is uniquely placed to capitalise on this market opportunity, based on:
•	 Its	leading	positions	in	data	captur e,	data	analysis,	and	media	consultancy
•	 The	compr ehensiveness,	accuracy	and	sheer	size	of	its	database
•	 Its	integrated,	pr oprietary	systems	and	technical	expertise	and
•	 The	Gr oup’ s	deep	knowledge	and	experience	of	the	media	industry
The database has been developed over ten years.  It currently holds 72 terabytes of data comprising 
four million advertisements which have appeared a quarter of billion times across all the media including 
the internet.  The database is a key asset with market-leading functionality and content, providing the 
Group with a notable competitive advantage.  Uniquely, Thomson Intermedia receives data in digital 
form from over 1,000 regional publications.  Since its launch in December 2005, the Publisher Platform 
has processed 2.3 million pdfs and has captured some two million new creatives; the Group is currently 
processing over 300,000 regional pdfs a month. Page 8 Page 9 Thomson Intermedia plc   Annual Accounts 2007
Thomson Intermedia’s proprietary technology is world-leading and scaleable.  Its systems are fully 
integrated into a single database to ensure that advertising creatives and expenditure can be completely 
aligned.  The technology allows the fastest and most comprehensive capture of all advertising media 
and insertions and uses sophisticated, tailored interfaces to provide this fundamental data, peer group 
monitoring and associated analysis to marketeers. 
UK Market
Thomson Intermedia is the leading provider of media auditing and competitive monitoring to advertisers 
in the UK.  The Group believes that the UK market remains a source of significant growth.  The Group 
aims to ensure that the Thomson Intermedia system is available and in constant use on the desktops of 
as many advertisers, agencies and media owners as possible in order to become the standard currency of 
media spend in the UK.  It is here that the Group’s development activities are focused.  Not only will this 
create the opportunity for a step-change in revenue for the Group in the UK, it will provide the platform for 
significant growth in overseas markets.
In October 2006, the Group agreed a partnership with GroupM, part of WPP plc, which significantly 
enhances its route to market.  GroupM will endorse Thomson Intermedia’s monitoring products and 
facilitate access to their customer base of more than 650 of the UK’s top advertisers.  Thomson 
Intermedia has invested a significant amount of development time in adapting its systems for the GroupM 
partnership and for the agency environment in general.  It has also been active in building relationships 
and buy-in within the GroupM agencies, specifically Mindshare, Mediacom and Mediaedge: CIA.
The development work has involved developing an entirely new agency and client user front-end solution, 
automated reporting and distribution functions and agency attribution (whereby advertisements can be 
filtered by agency which is a fundamental requirement of this market).  The new front-end product will be 
made available to all of Thomson Intermedia’s existing clients as well as to GroupM and its clients which 
will bring significant upgrade opportunities.  
The new system is currently in the late stages of beta testing and the Group anticipates a controlled roll-
out within GroupM and to existing clients starting in September.  The financial benefits of this new route to 
market should begin to be felt by the end of the financial year.
International Development
The Group’s business model is scaleable and there is a substantial opportunity to grow revenues in 
international markets, many of which are less developed in terms of media information and consultancy 
than the UK.  The Board plans to continue to invest in and develop businesses in key overseas markets in 
the form of recruitment, small acquisitions and start-ups.
MPMA, the Group’s US subsidiary, is a fast growth, profitable company with a leadership position in the 
US media auditing market.  The US is the largest single advertising market in the world where media 
auditing (long accepted in the UK) is still at a relatively early stage of penetration.  The Group recently 
launched its internet monitoring service in the US and is considering rolling out other products in due 
course.
In Europe, the Group recently completed a modest investment in a media auditing business in Spain and 
is actively pursuing the acquisition of a business in another key market.  These initiatives will strengthen 
the Group’s competitive position in the securing of global audit mandates as well as provide a platform for 
domestic growth and non-audit products.  The Group is committed to growing its joint venture in Germany 
as well as to signing licence deals in smaller territories such as the recently agreed transaction covering 
Greece and Cyprus.
In due course, the Group expects to establish a direct presence in other major and developing advertising 
markets. Thomson Intermedia plc   Annual Accounts 2007 Page 10 Page 11
Operational Review
The Group classifies its business into two types: Core (which comprises Subscriptions, Consultancy and 
International) and Development.
Core Business
Subscriptions
This area of the business comprises 67% of Group revenues and is made up of advertiser monitoring, 
news monitoring, e-vouching and audit services.  Following recent development work, subscribers will 
soon be able to access these services via new interfaces enabling both individual and bundled sales.
This business currently has over 360 customers (including 74 of the top 100 UK advertisers), 54 of which 
currently take more than one Group product.  The renewal rate (by contract value) for the 12 months to 
April 2007 was maintained at 90%, although this rate has increased to over 100% in the early months of 
2007/8.  The average contract value across the Group is £38,000 and for customers who hold more than 
one Group product the average aggregate contract value is over £90,000.  Developing the cross selling 
opportunities is a key priority for the Group.
During 2006/07, Thomson Intermedia consolidated its position as the pre-eminent provider of media 
auditing, e-vouching and competitive monitoring in the UK.
The Group diversified its monitoring service into new client areas.  This included a significant healthcare 
related project from the Government, a market-leading email monitoring product and a unique, real-time 
news monitoring service.    
In media auditing, the Group’s market share increased to 64% with some significant client wins, 
including Renault, Bird’s Eye and Standard Life.  Revenues from the auditing of internet advertising and 
best practice consultancy have more than doubled over the past year.  Thomson Intermedia is the only 
company offering a credible audit of online advertising in the UK.
The Publisher Platform, which was launched in December 2005, has exclusive long term contracts with 10 
regional media owners covering over 1,400 publications and accounting for 90% of total regional press.  
The platform is now accessed by 70,000 users in the UK within media owners themselves, advertisers 
and over 100 national and provincial agencies across the UK.  Due to the extensive volume of publications 
being received digitally, the Group is now able to offer UK media owners the first comprehensive 
monitoring and market share analysis system with a lead generation tool.  Thomson Intermedia is currently 
in discussions with the regional media owners to roll out this new product.
Consultancy
This area of the business comprises 8% of Group revenues.  Trading as billetts marketing sciences, this 
unit is the leading independent provider of marketing effectiveness consultancy in the UK.  It focuses on 
answering the fundamental questions facing marketeers about allocation of marketing spend and return 
on investment.  The consultants use a mixture of advanced analytical tools, modelling, bespoke software 
tools and marketing experience.  The Group has developed a range of market-leading products across the 
FMCG, financial services and retail sectors.
billetts marketing sciences has built strong client relationships and there is a high level of repeat business:  
in 2006/07, 80% of revenues were derived from established clients.  There has also been significant 
growth in international contracts, managed out of London, with successful projects undertaken across five 
continents. Page 10 Page 11 Thomson Intermedia plc   Annual Accounts 2007
International
The Group’s products and services have international appeal.  International revenues now comprise 20% 
of total revenues, up from 16% in 2006.  For the 12 months to 30 April 2007, MPMA – the Group’s US 
subsidiary – increased revenue by 57% over the prior year.  
USA:  The Group views the US media audit market as an area of significant opportunity and MPMA, the 
Group’s 80% owned subsidiary, is one of the leading players in a relatively immature market segment.  
MPMA has continued to make excellent progress with ten new client wins since April 2006, bringing 
the total client base to 26.  For the 12 months to 30 April 2007, MPMA recorded $2.1m in revenues, an 
increase over the prior year of 57%, and contributed operating profit of $0.3m.  Approximately 80% of 
MPMA revenues are generated from US-based customers with the remainder coming from international 
assignments.  MPMA’s earn-out from the billetts acquisition ended on 30 April 2007 and, having recently 
launched its online monitoring service in the US, the Group is now considering extending its range of 
products and services further.  
Germany:  The Group owns 50% of Thomson Media Control (TMC) which offers media monitoring 
services in Germany.  It has grown well with a current client base of 43 of which 23 were signed since 
May 2006.  The Group is exploring opportunities to extend products and services in Germany.  For the 12 
months to 30 April 2007, TMC recorded €2.0m of revenues and is expected to be in operating profit by the 
end of the calendar year.  Under the terms of the joint venture, the Group does not bear any financial risk 
but receives a percentage of the profit arising once the accumulated losses have been repaid.  The Board 
does not expect TMC to have a material financial impact on Group results until 2008/09.
Partners: The Group has partnerships with 16 companies in 25 countries to secure local data, benchmarks 
and media training insight in order to provide an international audit service.  The Group believes there is an 
opportunity to establish or acquire wholly-owned operations in certain larger key markets.  As described 
earlier, the Group has recently invested in a media auditing business in Spain and is actively pursuing an 
acquisition in another key European market.
In May 2007, Thomson Intermedia signed a licence agreement with MMA Media Analysis to launch a 
media monitoring operation in Greece and Cyprus.  The Group will supply its proprietary software and 
provide technical support to the venture, without any financial exposure in exchange for an annual licence 
fee and a percentage share of the operation’s revenues.  The Group may sign similar deals in the future to 
gain footholds in other smaller countries.
Development Business
Development business is characterised by one-off project income which is targeted so that it often 
leads to additional ongoing Core revenue sources.  In the past, development income has been derived 
from areas such as retrospective vouching, licence fee income from Germany and up-front fees for the 
Publisher Platform.  
In 2006/07, Development income was lower than originally anticipated due to delays in the securing 
of projects in the pipeline.  The Group is still working on a significant pipeline of projects and remains 
confident that a high proportion will be closed during the current financial year.
The current pipeline includes projects to expand the Publisher Platform by bringing on more media owners 
and by developing new services using the same data.  In addition, there are a number of international 
opportunities and other bespoke projects in the pipeline.
