 Thomson Intermedia Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 12 months ended 30 April 2008
11
markeT da Ta: The currency of The 
media indusTry
we operate in a worldwide advertising market worth over 
$360 billion and a UK market worth almost £8.5 billion. 
As the media landscape diversifies and fragments, driven 
by emerging digital technologies, there is a greater need 
for marketing professionals to have accurate, timely (and 
crucially) independent information, insight and advice. the 
growth of the internet (fuelled by Broadband distribution) 
has transformed the communications market and brought 
about a radical change in the way that people lead their 
lives and an equally big shift in their use of communications 
media.
Digital communications services, led by the internet, have 
conspired with converging technologies to offer a massive 
range of choice to today’s consumers.  social Networking 
on mobile devices is a daily reality and user-generated 
content is already a permanent feature of the media 
landscape. 
the explosion of media choice is rapidly re-distributing the 
time, attention and disposable income of the audiences, 
and advertisers face an enormous challenge in the way 
they connect with their consumers. what is sure is that 
this proliferation of media channels, and the wide range 
of devices on which they are received, means that 
increasingly, media menus are becoming personalised and 
that this has significantly disrupted the traditional ‘media 
consumption’ stereotype upon which so much traditional 
media planning relies.
Data, which allows us to track and respond to consumer 
behaviour, is the hot new currency and although it is in 
plentiful supply, its sheer volume creates its own problems, 
challenging marketers to transform information into 
actionable insights. this represents an enormous opportunity 
for thomson intermedia. Advertisers increasingly need 
integrated and independent ways of navigating a clear 
path through the new media jungle and we are well 
positioned to help them. 
i believe that no other company offers our unique mix of 
capabilities. we have one of the largest – perhaps the 
largest – media databases in the UK; we work with over 
300 advertisers, we already deliver valuable insights direct 
to our clients’ desktops in near real time, and we measure 
and benchmark over £3 billion of media spend, trade and 
consumer promotional investment each year.  this gives us 
a unique perspective, and i believe an unrivalled ability, to 
provide our clients with powerful market insights that can 
drive their businesses success. 
CHiEf ExECUtivE’s REviEw CONtiNUED
“i BEliEvE tHA t NO
OtHER COMpANy 
OffERs OUR UNiQUE
Mix Of CAp ABilitiEs” Thomson Intermedia Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 12 months ended 30 April 2008
12
CHiEf ExECUtivE’s REviEw CONtiNUED
markeTing invesTmenT managemenT : sTra Tegic 
realignmenT of our core capabiliTies
in june 2008, i announced that our media monitoring 
platform would take the Billetts’ name to become Billetts 
Media Monitoring (BMM) and be aligned with our two 
other advertising services divisions: Billetts Media Consulting 
and Billetts Marketing sciences. At the same time BMM 
was significantly upgraded to provide advertisers with a 
dedicated and unique monitoring platform that is specific 
to their marketing sector. the depth, accuracy and 
usability of this data platform is without equal, and our 
ability to tailor it to the marketing and media needs of our 
clients is, i believe, unrivalled.
whilst each of the three Billetts business units is an authority 
in its own right, together they create what we believe will 
increasingly become recognised as the best practice 
approach for advertisers. we call it Marketing investment 
Management and it is designed to ensure transparency, 
insight and value throughout the media planning and 
buying process, as well as to provide advertisers with the 
strategic tools they need to help them build effective 
media and marketing plans and gain a demonstrable 
return on their investment. 
in this cluttered and complex market, Billetts’ mission is to 
become the clear source of independent and integrated 
advice for our clients - to sit at their shoulder throughout 
the communications and planning process in order to help 
them:
Understand the competitive environment and in the •	
process fine-tune their own activity and react quickly 
to competitive threats
Keep track of marketing campaigns in terms •	
of advertising appearance, compliance and 
transparency
grow their business by providing unique insights into •	
the key metrics that drive their particular market
Benchmark their media activity and measure both the •	
economy and effectiveness of their media planning 
and buying
Understand their overall return-on-investment from •	
their total communications and promotional activity
Manage their data sources and ensure they feed •	
back into better communication planning and 
greater efficiencies across all media and marketing 
choices
we believe that no other company in our sector has •	
access to so much data and yet can genuinely claim 
to be entirely independent of the buying process. 
leveraging our core asseTs inTo growing 
markeTs 
in the coming months we intend to focus on improving 
and developing the services we provide to our other two 
market audiences: public Relations and publishers.
Our editorial monitoring products aimed at the public 
Relations market - Newslive and Newsmetrics - are a 
growing and important part of our business. today, most 
major corporations are concerned to properly manage 
their image; put more correctly perhaps, their reputation. 
in the world of business, reputation is key and in today’s 
busy and complex media environment, in which blogging 
is increasingly dictating the pace of public opinion, 
tracking what people say about you – good or bad – is a 
crucial business tool.
Both Newslive and Newsmetrics are specialist providers 
of high-speed news monitoring and evaluation services 
delivered on-line in near real time.  they provide 
intelligently selected media coverage and evaluation that 
helps inform strategic planning. 
in addition we plan to further develop our ‘publisher 
services’ business by building upon our successful 
“DAtA, wHiCH AllOws 
Us tO tRACK AND 
REspOND tO CONsUMER 
BEHAviOUR, is tHE HOt 
NEw CURRENCy” Thomson Intermedia Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 12 months ended 30 April 2008
13
electronic vouching business.  Electronic vouching 
allows publishers to provide advertisers with proof of 
insertion via a purpose built web based platform helping 
them to create significant efficiencies and cost savings. 
we have recently introduced this product in Holland 
where it has already met with significant success.
inTerna Tional developmenT
Approximately 19% (2007: 13%) of our revenue in 2007/8 
was derived directly or indirectly from international client 
assignments. Of this, 75% are for contracts conducted 
in 10 countries or more. we currently work with over 
30 companies across Europe and Asia to provide our 
international media audit service and in the coming 
year we intend to take steps to strengthen our country 
representation to more closely match the needs of our 
clients. 
last month we entered into exclusive discussions 
with Media value, spain’s newest and most dynamic 
Media Consulting and Auditing Company, with a view 
to acquiring an initial 25% interest and by so doing, 
strengthen our existing presence in this important 
market. Media value was formed last year by senior 
professionals from Accenture/Media Audits, and has 
already built up a significant client list in its own right. 
Billetts’ spanish and portuguese accounts will join Media 
value’s existing business, jointly creating a powerful data 
pool for the spanish media market. 
a new company name To reflecT our unique 
offering
Our future growth will be based on the exploitation 
and development of our key competency as a data 
analytics business. we bring high value insights and 
services to our three target audiences - advertisers, 
publishers and the pR sector. we add value through our 
ability to capture data and convert it into unique insights 
via our suite of algorithms and analytics products. And 
we deliver all of this via a data platform refreshed and 
analysed in near real time.
we now need a new name to signal our new and 
exciting future.
Our current Company name has served us well. there is 
no doubt that the thomson name has great resonance 
in the media business. Unfortunately its strength is also 
its weakness. we are frequently mistaken for the many 
‘thomson’ companies who in some way overlap with 
our market – thomson Directories for example - and 
many that don’t – like thomson Holidays! the recent 
thomson Reuters merger illustrates our frustration – it is 
sufficiently adjacent to be confusing to potential clients, 
and at the same time sufficiently different in what it does 
to inhibit our ability to distinguish our unique company 
capabilities. we are a small company by comparison 
and need a name that is unique and unmistakable; one 
that clearly signals our data and analytics credentials 
and is able to stretch across a number of technology 
enhanced media products and businesses.
i am therefore proud to announce that, subject to 
shareholder approval at our next Annual general 
Meeting in september, we plan to change our company 
name to Ebiquity plc.
i believe it is a name that will allow us to build a growing 
and uniquely attributable share of mind within the 
media community.
CHiEf ExECUtivE’s REviEw CONtiNUED Thomson Intermedia Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 12 months ended 30 April 2008
14
CHiEf ExECUtivE’s REviEw CONtiNUED
ouTlook
we have taken the first steps necessary to ensure a strong 
foundation for growth but there will be more to do in the 
coming year.  we will continue to invest in growth opportunities 
designed to build upon our strengths as a leader in marketing 
analytics. 
Our primary purpose is to advise our clients on how best to 
create media value – more specifically, how best to ensure 
maximum return on their marketing and media investment. At 
no time is this more relevant or more important than at a time 
of growing concerns about recession. Already a significant 
proportion of our clients are either finance Directors or Heads 
of procurement seeking to set benchmarks or interrogate value. 
Many are sales Directors who look to create greater efficiencies 
from their growing trade promotion budget. And many are 
Marketing Directors who need to make their marketing budgets 
work harder. Billetts Marketing investment Management speaks 
directly to these concerns. Overall, therefore, the Board remain 
cautiously optimistic about the year ahead.
michael greenlees  
chief executive officer
23 july 2008
    Thomson Intermedia Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 12 months ended 30 April 2008
15
thomson intermedia plc is publishing its final results for the 12 months ended 30 April 2008.  since the comparative period is a 15 month 
period, this review also contains unaudited proforma figures for the 12 months ended 30 April 2007.
revenue
12 months
ended 30 ApRil 2008
(Audited)
12 months 
ended 30 ApRil 2007
(Rest Ated, unAudited pRofoRmA)
15 months
ended 30 ApRil 2007
(Rest Ated, Audited)
£’000 £’000 £’000
Consultancy services 11,310 9,604 12,168
t echnology & data 5,910 5,716 7,126
Core 17,220 15,320 19,294
development (one off) - 661 896
Total Revenue 17,220 15,981 20,190
 
total group revenue increased by 8% to £17.2 million (2007 – 12 months: £16.0 million) with Core revenue, excluding one-off development 
projects, up by 12% to £17.2 million (2007 – 12 months: £15.3 million).  this growth was driven by Consultancy services where revenue 
increased by 18% to £11.3 million. within this segment, revenue from international audit assignments and marketing sciences projects both 
grew strongly, up by 62% and 30% respectively.  
Despite an encouraging 92% renewal rate (by value), revenue from technology & Data services was up only 3% year on year due to a 
disappointing new business performance. following contract wins in Holland and in UK magazine publishing, revenue from e-vouching 
services for publishers was up 28% year on year.
the Board made the decision to focus on recurring and renewable revenue streams based on our core product and service offerings rather 
than one off software development projects.  this explains the lack of Development revenue in the current year. 
gross profiT
gross profit for the period was £9.0m, yielding a gross margin of 52% (2007 – 15 months: 56%) which has been consistent throughout the 
period.  the margin decrease reflects the lack of one off development income, and the larger percentage of revenue being attributable to 
Consultancy services - and in particular international contracts - which has lower margins than t echnology & Data.
opera Ting profiT
profit before highlighted items is termed “underlying operating profit”.  Certain items have been highlighted because separate disclosure is 
considered relevant in understanding the underlying performance of the business.  
12 months
ended 30 ApRil 2008
(Audited)
12  months 
ended 30 ApRil 2007
(Rest Ated, unAudited pRofoRmA)
15 months
ended 30 ApRil 2007
(Rest Ated,  Audited)
£’000 £’000 £’000
Consultancy services 1,993 1,463 2,088
t echnology & data 145 220 300
Central costs (121) (92) (84)
Underlying core business operating profit 2,017 1,591 2,304
development (one off) - 642 877
Underlying operating profit 2,017 2,233 3,181
highlighted items (3,140) (2,055) (2,230)
Reported operating (loss) / profit (1,123) 178 951
Consultancy services has performed well with increased revenues from a well managed cost base.
Additional costs incurred in technology & Data did not result in the desired uplift in revenues.  As explained in the Chief Executive’s review, 
this part of the business is subject to a detailed strategic review.
Underlying core business operating profit was £2.0m (2007 – 12 months: £1.6m), representing a 27% increase over the prior 12 month period.
fiNANCiAl REviEw
