 ANNUAL REPORT
2013
21
 SECTION
03
Business Review
22 Chairman’s Statement
22 Market Overview
24 Operational Review
27 Current Trading and Outlook
28 Financial Review
29 Board of Directors
30 Directors’ Report
35 Corporate Responsibility
38 Corporate Governance
42 Directors’ Responsibilities
43 Independent Audit Report ANNUAL REPORT
2013
22
“ W e enter the 
new financial 
year highly 
confident about 
the prospects for 
the Company 
and with an 
expectation 
that the growth 
of the business 
will continue 
to be reflected 
in increasing 
value for 
shareholders.”
I am pleased to be able to report on another period 
during which significant progress has been made by 
Eckoh. The key strategic focus over the past 12 months 
has been to promote our proposition in the payment 
sector, to use that capability to secure a high number 
of significant client wins and to establish partnerships 
with organisations that can assist us in accelerating the 
growth experienced in recent years.
Chairman’s Statement
We have been successful in both of these 
strategic initiatives with an unprecedented 
number of new clients being won during the 
financial year increasing the client base of 
the Company from 39 to 50 clients. Several 
of these new client wins have come through 
partnerships established with the likes of BT, 
Serco, Azzurri Communications and a global 
payment service provider. 
Going forward we would expect the trend 
of increasing client numbers to accelerate as 
these partner arrangements become further 
established. We are also excited about the 
prospects likely to be brought through our 
recently announced relationship with one of 
the UK’s leading providers of business process 
outsourcing and business process management 
solutions. The commitment shown to the 
relationship by the partner is such that we 
have been guaranteed a minimum level of 
revenue from the partner over the course of the 
initial three years of the agreement. The early 
signs are that opportunities being brought by 
the partner will result in some large contract 
wins which will render the minimum revenue 
guarantee redundant.
Historically we have always been successful in 
selling additional services to our client base with 
growth largely being split evenly between new 
client wins and additional services being sold 
to existing clients. We are confident that we 
will be successful selling additional services to 
this larger base whether it is payment services 
through other channels or more traditional 
speech solutions.
The increasing profitability of Eckoh has seen 
cash reserves increase to £8.5m at 31 March 
2013. This has enabled us to recommend a 
25% increase in dividend to 0.25p per share 
(FY12: 0.2p per share). We are now in a healthy 
position to consider more dynamic options 
towards achieving our growth aspirations.
We are delighted to be able to announce the 
acquisition of Veritape Limited, completed 
on 10 June 2013, (“Veritape”) for initial 
consideration of £6.3m rising to £10.6m 
provided Veritape are able to achieve profit 
before tax of £3.6m during the first twenty six 
months following acquisition. Veritape have 
quickly established their CallGuard proposition 
as an innovative proposition for rapidly de-
scoping call centres from the requirement of the 
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards 
and with the minimum of disruption to the 
client. Veritape have also been successful in 
winning contracts of significant size outside of 
the UK. CallGuard is an ideal solution for those 
looking for a secure solution that does not 
involve payments being handled on a hosted 
basis by a third party such as Eckoh and as 
such is extremely complementary to the current 
Eckoh offerings.
The broadening of the client base has 
undoubtedly led to an increase in the workload 
undertaken by our employees. It is to their 
credit that satisfaction levels from our new 
clients have been extremely high and I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank the 
workforce for their efforts over the last twelve 
months. I was pleased that the results of the 
2013 Best Companies to Work For survey 
returned positive results with Eckoh being 
recognised as a two star employer by the 
employees responding to the survey.
We enter the new financial year highly 
confident about the prospects for the Company 
and with an expectation that the growth of 
the business will continue to be reflected in 
increasing value for shareholders.
Chris Batterham
Chairman
Chris Batterham
