 most resilient form of PCI compliance available to contact 
centres. Of our sample, 9% of contact centres had adopted 
such solutions with a further 13% considering this approach 
as part of their future compliance programme.
Owing to the complexity of the annual PCI DSS audit, more 
contact centres are opting to outsource the requirement 
to PCI DSS service providers like Eckoh so that they can 
continue to run their core operation without distraction.
Eckoh is finding that their cloud- based payment solutions 
EckohPAY and EckohPROTECT are popular with clients and 
consumers alike, as callers can enter their card details using 
their telephone keypad and never have to pass their details 
verbally to someone they don’t know. EckohPROTECT 
ensures that the contact centre agent is never exposed to 
cardholder data but does allow them to stay on the phone 
with the caller while they process their payment. As well 
as maintaining a good customer experience, the system 
masks the card data on the agent screen and blocks the 
DTMF tones from being recorded allowing call recording to 
continue. For organisations who are required for regulatory 
reasons to have uninterrupted call recording this can be a 
critical requirement. 
As the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council 
prefer to see robust technology based solutions, more 
organisations are realising the benefits of outsourcing this 
requirement for contact centres to Eckoh as it: 
  o helps to de-scope the PCI audit, and
  o  takes the burden of compliance away from the 
contact centre.
To make it easier for organisations to identify a compliant 
provider, Visa publishes a list of approved Level One Service 
providers. Eckoh has been a PCI DSS Level One compliant 
Service provider since 2010, taking over £300 million per 
year for clients.
case study: 
Kiddicare
Acquired by Morrisons in 2011, Kiddicare prides itself on delivering 
an outstanding hassle free shopping experience both in store and 
online. One such example is their extended next day delivery promise 
by allowing customers to place online orders as late as 7pm for 
guarantee delivery the following working day. Their commitment to 
their customers means they are now the UK’s number one online 
baby shop with 400,000 customers placing an order with them in 
the last 12 months.
Most of Kiddicare’s customers pay for goods online, but Kiddicare 
wanted to expand the shopping experience to offer payments via 
telephone. Aware of PCI DSS compliance, they wanted to ensure 
that any payments made by customers were secure and met Payment 
Card Industry regulations. They also wanted to offer the option of 
paying through their existing contact centre agents as well as an 
automated system.
By using Eckoh as their PCI DSS compliant service provider, Kiddicare 
is able to avoid a long and detailed part of the compliance process 
and quickly implemented a secure card payment service for their 
customers. In addition, EckohPROTECT enables callers to make 
payments with contact centre agents who can verbally guide them 
through the payment process.
EckohPROTECT is just 
what we were looking for 
at Kiddicare. W e were really 
impressed with Eckoh’s 
credentials, their PCI DSS 
Level One status and their 
confidence at meeting our 
challenging implementation 
deadlines. W e’re looking 
forward to providing a secure 
yet convenient payment service 
that delivers an excellent 
customer experience.
Ken Platt 
Head of Multi-Channel  
Morrisons.com
ANNUAL REPORT
2013
17
