 02 Eclectic Bar Group plc Annual Report 2014
This has been a transformational  
year for Eclectic.
ChAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Jim Fallon
Chairman
The 52 weeks to the end of June 2014 financial year has 
been a transformational period for Eclectic Bar Group plc 
(the Group). The highlight was the successful listing on 
AIM in November 2013. The new base of long term 
shareholders combined with its new banking facilities 
(see note 14) puts the Group in a robust position to 
continue its growth through new site acquisitions  
and developments as set out in its strategy on listing.
The Group’s strategy is to grow principally by the 
acquisition and development of individual and groups 
of sites. There has been significant progress in this regard 
with the leasehold of Coalition acquired in Brighton in 
October 2013, the freehold of Coyote Wild in Derby 
re-opened as a Lola Lo in April 2014, a new lease on 
Deansgate Locks Manchester opened as the ninth Lola 
Lo in December 2013, Madame Geisha (an existing site) 
in Brighton was closed and was refurbished as the 
Group’s first Dirty Blonde and Lowlander (leasehold) 
acquired in Covent Garden. The acquisition of 
Lowlander (through the acquisition of Newman Bars Ltd) 
brought not only a high quality central London site,  
but also expertise in food. We anticipate utilising this 
concept in other locations. Consequently, our estate  
has grown by 4 bars in the period.
The premium bar market remains fragmented and 
continues to present the Group with a significant 
opportunity to grow, albeit in a measured and prudent 
way. The Group’s focus will continue to be providing 
premium bars for young, sophisticated professionals and 
students who are seeking added value through superior 
service and a high quality experience. We remain 
focussed on delivering the most aspirational venue 
available in any given location.
The financial highlights are fully reported on in the 
strategic report; however I am pleased with the progress 
for the year.
The Group is well financed, having repaid out of the 
proceeds of the listing £7.3 million of shareholder debt  
at the time of the IPO. Net debt at the period end stood 
at £2.0 million (2013: £8.2 million). To finance our growth 
the Group has extended its revolving credit facility with 
Barclays Bank from £1.5 million to £5 million.
Since the year end we have signed leases for two  
new sites in Sheffield and Liverpool. Additionally,  
after the year end, a major investment was made in 
refurbishing and reconfiguring Embargo renaming it 
Embargo Republica. Eclectic continues to consider 
single site and asset group acquisitions and currently  
has a good pipeline of sites.
I am pleased to announce that the Group intends to  
pay a special dividend in the current financial year of 
2.5p per share.
6634 Eclectic AR 2014_5 _TP.indd   2 31/10/2014   13:09 Strategic Report
Eclectic Bar Group plc Annual Report 2014 03
Board
One of the Group’s key objectives was to enhance  
the balance, skills and compliance of the Board through  
the selection of appropriately qualified independent 
Non-Executive Directors. I am delighted to welcome 
Clive Watson to the Board who joined on listing,  
Richard Kleiner was appointed on 1 February 2014 and 
Leigh Nicolson 28 July 2014 having worked within the 
Group since 2006. Combined with the current directors 
the Board now has a combination of PLC experience 
and expertise as well as a deep understanding and 
knowledge of the sector which will serve it well for  
the future.
Outlook
The Board remains confident and excited about the 
future of the Group. Following the IPO we have the  
right financial structure to take advantage of the 
opportunities which may become available for further 
site or group acquisitions. We continue to innovate to  
be able to deliver the high quality experience that our 
sophisticated customer base expects. With the benefits 
of investment made and the new sites for the current 
year, we look forward to delivering further progress.
Jim Fallon
Chairman
30 October 2014
our estate has  
grown by 4 bars  
in the period
I am pleased to announce 
that the Group intends to 
pay a special dividend in 
the current financial year 
of 2.5p per share
4
2.5p
6634 Eclectic AR 2014_5 _TP.indd   3 31/10/2014   13:09
