 Eco City Vehicles Plc. Reports and Accounts 2009 6
Taxi distribution business – New, Second Hand and Trade vehicles
Sales of new Vitos increased substantially to 398 in 2009, surpassing the 500 level since launch in mid 2008.
The implementation of the regional dealer network was completed in the latter part of 2009. New Vito sales
made up 84% of total new sales, by revenue.
There is a negligible contribution from the sale of new TX4’s, which continues to be discounted resulting in
very low margins. The loss of the LTI dealership in July 2010 will have minimal impact, with sales of used
vehicles, sales of parts and after ‐sales service continuing under a new contract.
With increasing sales of the Vito resulting in the trade ‐in of used LTI vehicles, there was a substantial increase
in used vehicles sales to 296 units, and an improvement in margins from 0.8% to 4.9%.
I would like to thank Steven McCarthy, Sales Director, for his hard work and dedication to the substantial
increase in sales.
After ‐Sales Division – Servicing, Body repairs, Parts and Accessories
Parts continued to show excellent growth, with revenue increasing by 19% to £2.9m and gross margin
increasing by 33% to £0.7m.
After ‐sales service was impacted by the recession due to longer service intervals on cabs, reducing revenue
from £4.1m to £3.2m.
In anticipation of the downturn the company reduced its staffing levels and introduced service packages on
new vehicles to retain servicing revenue. Profitability was maintained in the servicing division, at a slightly
reduced level of £0.2m (2008: £0.3m). Overall the profitability of the After ‐Sales division contributed £0.7m
(2008: £0.7m).
Cash balances and funding
The Group had cash balances of £0.3m (2008: £0.05m) at the year end and had reduced borrowings from
£3.1m to £2.7m. The Group has facilities with Mercedes ‐Benz and Singers Asset Finance for vehicle stock of
£3.5m, with only £1.6m utilised at the year end. Cash flow from operating activities substantially turned
around from an outflow of £2.9m in 2008 to an inflow of £1.5m this year.
Transmedia 
As disclosed in the interim results, the Group's in ‐cab advertising business Transmedia Ltd was unsustainable,
with no indication of the business achieving profit in the near future: Transmedia Ltd ceased operating the
Cabvision licence in September 2009. Transmedia made a loss of £0.4m during the year and has been
separately disclosed as discontinued activities. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
4744 KPM Eco City Annual Report 2010 Brochure.qxp:Layout 1  06/06/2010  17:44  Page 7 Commercial contracts
The Group continues to work closely with Mercedes ‐Benz, who are delighted with the success of the Vito taxi,
placing the Group as their top distributor of the Vito. In order to retain customer loyalty and service revenue
the Group launched free three year servicing packs for the Vito, which are very attractive to a taxi owner as
this represents a substantial outlay for their existing LTI vehicle. The Group has taken advantage of the
termination of its LTI main dealership to recruit these ex LTI dealerships (with their taxi knowledge and
experience) for the distribution of the Vito in the rest of the UK. In addition the Group is working closely 
with Mercedes ‐Benz for their dealers to provide the quality after ‐sales service for the Vito taxis.
Environmentally friendly vehicles
The Group has continued to work with its partners to progress hybrid and electric vehicles with the development
of a 7.5t hybrid truck and a prototype of the Electric Vito taxi.
Outlook for the current year
The Group is pleased with the progress made in 2009, despite difficult trading conditions the Group moved
backed into profitability at an operating level.
Since the appointment of our Regional dealer network throughout the UK sales are progressing well and the
Vito has now been licensed by 170 Councils, representing a potential market exceeding 50,000 licensed taxis.
Transport for London have now announced that they are reviewing the introduction of an age limit for all
taxis from 2012.
Despite challenging and uncertain conditions remaining in early 2010, the Group continues to make progress
with the Vito, without resorting to the discounting introduced by our competitors. This progress will be
enhanced with the introduction of an age limit by TFL. The benefits and advantages of the Vito, the next
generation of taxis, alongside the lower running costs, superior comfort and accessibility, as well as excellent
residuals all provide for a lower total cost of ownership and a better drive for our customers with minimal
warranty exposure. These benefits, including the superior comforts for the passenger, have led to rising
demand from corporate London, on the London Radio Circuits and especially on Airport runs.
The Board anticipates making further in ‐roads into the marketplace and is delighted that the continued
growth has led to increased production at our second tier British manufacturing facility in Coventry. The Group
is progressing further its relationship with Mercedes ‐Benz and is in negotiations to become a full Light
Commercial Vehicle Mercedes ‐Benz dealer in the second half of 2010.
The Group anticipates introducing a Euro V compliant taxi (meeting stringent new regulations in the
production process and emission standards) for sale in 2011, a year ahead of schedule. In 2010 we expect 
to develop further our Eco friendly product range. We have partnered Mercedes ‐Benz in seeking funding
opportunities and we are encouraged by signs of market acceptance of our imported hybrid truck with a
demand for a 7.5 tonne version. The evito (electric) taxi, in which we are a partner, has been successfully
prototyped and we are working with our partners with an aim to bring the vehicles into production in time
for the Olympics, with a series hybrid version to follow.
Peter Dacosta
2 June 2010
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
7
4744 KPM Eco City Annual Report 2010 Brochure.qxp:Layout 1  06/06/2010  17:44  Page 8
