 Eco City Vehicles Plc. Reports and Accounts 2009 4
Introduction
I am pleased to report that despite the exceptionally difficult trading conditions, which prevailed throughout
2009, turnover was substantially higher than in the previous year. The Group's main product, the Mercedes
Benz Vito taxi launched in 2008, achieved a steadily growing share of the London taxi market. Our
relationship with Mercedes-Benz has developed further and is expected to lead to an expansion of our
operations in due course. The loss making operations of the Group’s subsidiary, Transmedia Limited, were
discontinued and despite considerable price discounting in the taxi market by our competitors the profitability
of the continuing operations improved significantly.
Trading Performance
Against a background of severe economic recession in Britain, accompanied by an acute financial crisis, it is
very satisfactory that sales of the Vito more than trebled during the year. Its superior comfort, performance
and economy are now widely recognised by both drivers and passengers, an increasing number of whom now
specify their preference for the Vito when ordering or choosing a cab. We estimate that the Vito, which
continues to attract considerable media and industry attention, now enjoys a 24 per cent share of the London
market. The rise in Vito sales more than offset the sharp fall in sales of new TX4 taxis and were the main
reason for the 53 per cent increase in total vehicle sales during the year, although the doubling of used
vehicle sales compared with 2008 also contributed.
In July 2009, London International Taxis Limited (LTI), the subsidiary of Manganese Bronze Plc which
manufactures the TX4 taxi, gave us notice that the main dealership which our subsidiary KPM-UK Taxis Limited
has operated for LTI taxis since 1989 would be terminated with effect from July 2010. The declining sales,
decreasing profitability and falling market share of the TX4 means that this decision will have only a very small
effect on our future turnover, especially as negotiations have been recently concluded with LTI to enable KPM
to continue to provide servicing & repairs and supply parts for the TX4 and the other older taxis built by LTI.
The Group’s servicing and parts business traded satisfactorily during the year and continue to make a
contribution to sales and profits. As foreshadowed in my Statement last year the Board conducted a review of
the loss making operations of Transmedia Limited and announced in September that its activities had ceased.
The financial position of the Group has reflected the difficult trading background during 2009 but remains
satisfactory. It was helped during the year by the receipt of £297,000 in settlement of an insurance claim
following the fire at our premises in late 2007.
Chairman’s Statement
4744 KPM Eco City Annual Report 2010 Brochure.qxp:Layout 1  06/06/2010  17:44  Page 5 Other Activities
The Group has continued negotiations for the import of a hybrid delivery truck. Although these negotiations
are taking longer to complete than originally envisaged, we remain optimistic about the prospects for this
vehicle and hope to be able to report further progress later in the year.
The Group is also in discussions with the Mayor of London’s office and with Mercedes-Benz about the
development of a low emission Vito taxi. This may take the form of a series hybrid or a fully electric powered
vehicle. Again we hope to be able to report progress later in the year.
Discussions have also commenced about the possibility of the Group being appointed by Mercedes ‐Benz as a
light commercial vehicle dealer.
Related party transactions
On March 11th this year the Group informed The Stock Exchange that the existence of some previously
undisclosed related party transactions had come to light. Although these have not had any adverse impact on
our cash or on current trading, an investigation is under way into how these transactions occurred. The results
of this investigation, initiated by eco city vehicles plc, are expected to be available in the next few weeks.
Future
The Group is now very well positioned to exploit the potential of the growing demand and need for more fuel
efficient and lower carbon taxis and other vehicles. Details of some of our plans are set out in the Chief
Executive Officer’s Review below. The expected phasing out of the older taxis from London, part of the
Mayor's strategy to improve air quality in the city, will increase demand for newer, cleaner taxis. Sales in the
first quarter of the year have been satisfactory and as Britain’s economy recovers so the profitability of our
operations should also improve.
Management, Employees and Board
During the year the Board agreed that the Group needed to have a full time Finance Director in post. I am
delighted that David Trendle joined the Board in that capacity at the beginning of April this year.
I should like to thank Peter DaCosta, Chief Executive, and the whole of the Board for their continued efforts to help
the Group achieve its full potential. We remain grateful to all our employees for their hard work and commitment.
Tim Yeo 
Chairman
5
Chairman’s Statement
4744 KPM Eco City Annual Report 2010 Brochure.qxp:Layout 1  06/06/2010  17:44  Page 6
