 4 
 
 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
Introduction 
I am pleased to report a year of continued progress and a resilient financial and operational performance by Eco 
City Vehicles despite facing multiple challenges. Against a backdrop of fragile economic conditions, the Group 
successfully expanded sales of the ECV-developed Mercedes Vito taxi while managing its planned exit from its LTI 
main dealership, which meant new sales of the old-style TX4 London “black cab” ceased in July 2010. The volcanic 
ash cloud over Western Europe, together with UK airline strikes during the spring of last year, also affected the taxi 
trade, impacting overall trading conditions of the Group.     
 
Trading Performance 
Despite the difficult background, on a like-for-like basis Group revenues increased by 9.8% to £24.6m (2009: 
£22.4m), driven by continued growth in demand for the Vito licensed taxi, as well as a higher contribution from the 
parts business.  
Gross margins at 9.6% (2009: 9.1%) for new Vito taxis expanded through the year, reflecting continued robust 
pricing for the Vito taxi as taxi drivers increasingly recognised its superior performance and economy while 
customers enjoyed the benefits of its greater capacity and increased comfort. The Vito has achieved a 27% share 
of the new taxi market in London in 2010.  
Group EBITDA before non-recurring items increased to £0.3m (2009: £0.2m).  The loss before tax of £0.3m (2009: 
loss - £0.4m) was impacted by no interest receivable. 
Cash balances remained tight during the year but were helped by a share placing in November which raised £1.2m 
net of costs. 
 
Other Activities 
During the year the Group increased its shareholding in One80, the developer of the patented rear-wheel turning 
technology incorporated in the Vito taxi, from 33% to 59% to gain the full benefits of licensing income on the Vito 
taxi. 
  
Future 
 
Trading in the current year has been affected by continued sluggish economic conditions. However there have 
been more encouraging signs since the introduction in the spring of the Euro V version of the Vito which is fully 
compliant with tighter European Union vehicle emission regulations due to come into force next April. We believe 
that demand for the new London taxis market will also benefit significantly from the Mayor of London’s decision to 
phase out all taxis over 15 years old. Discussions have continued with the Mayor of London’s office and with 
Mercedes-Benz about introducing even lower emission taxis into London. 
 
 
Since the year end the Group has also taken steps to improve the efficiency of its operations. These have involved 
streamlining the work force. As a result costs will be significantly lower during the second half of 2011.  5 
 
 
Provided these measures are backed up by continuing improvement in demand for new taxis we remain confident 
that the prospects for the medium term are attractive and that the Group can take full advantage of better 
markets. 
 
 
MANAGEMENT, EMPLOYEES AND BOARD 
 
In April 2010 David Trendle was appointed Finance Director to strengthen the Group’s Board and management 
team as part of its long term growth strategy.  
 
During the year Guy Saxton resigned from the Board. I would like to express our appreciation of the contribution 
he made during his three years as a non-executive director. He was replaced by Roger Philips who brings a wealth 
of motor industry experience to the Group and whose wise counsel has already contributed materially to our 
decision making. 
 
I would like to thank our Chief Executive Peter DaCosta for his continued tireless leadership of the Group and the 
whole Board for their advice and support. We remain grateful to all our employees for their hard work. 
 
 
 
 
Tim Yeo 
Chairman  
1 July 2011 
