 6 
 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
 
New Taxis 
 
Revenues from new taxi sales were £14.2m (2009: £14.5m) as strong demand for the Vito taxi was offset by our 
planned exit from the sale of new LTI vehicles during the year. Operating profit in this segment increased from 
£0.65m to £1m as the Vito contributed revenues of £14.2m, up 16% from last year (2009: £12.2m) while new LTI 
taxi revenues declined to £0.1m (2009: 2.3m).  
 
Unit sales of new Vitos rose from 398 in 2009 to 477 units in 2010.  The Group has now sold more than 1,200 of 
these taxis since their launch in June 2008.  Based on Public Carriage Office Licence data, the Vito captured a 27% 
share of the London new taxi market in 2010, up from 24% in the previous year.  
 
The Vito also continued to achieve higher margins even as its rivals were being marketed at heavy discounts. As a 
result gross margin on new Vito sales improved to 9.6% (2009: 9.1%). The Group also achieved a high penetration 
rate for finance and earned commission (included in other income) of £0.4m (2009: £0.1m). 
 
Since the year end we introduced a new diesel version of the Mercedes Vito, which complies with tighter EU 
emission legislation that comes into effect in April 2012, in April 2011, a year in advance of the implementation of 
the Euro V regulations. This improved model incorporates Mercedes-Benz’s Blue Efficiency technology, which 
places the vehicle in a lower road tax band, comes with a new suspension giving a better ride and continues to be 
offered with 100,000 mile / 3 year service pack. 
 
In line with the Group’s strategy to phase down sales of new LTI manufactured taxis, only three new TX-4 were 
sold last year (2009: 80). 
  
Used taxis  
 
Used taxi sales performed reasonably well with revenues up to £4.2m (2009: £4.0m) of which Vito sales accounted 
for 25%, up from 18% in the previous year. The growth in Vito sales reflects increasing recognition among taxi 
drivers of the benefits of the Vito taxi in terms of reported fuel savings, superior quality, higher seating capacity 
and lower overall cost of ownership.    
 
Unit sales in this segment increased to 345 (2009: 308). 
  
After-Sales Division – Service, Bodyshop and Parts  
 
Revenues from after-sales service and bodyshop was £3.1m (2009: £3.2m), while gross margins slightly reduced 
from 64.9% to 64.3%. The result reflects reduced need for servicing due to reduced taxi miles being achieved in the 
trade as well as longer service intervals for the Vito taxi. In addition revenues per job have also been lowered due 
to price pressure from local “under the arches” garages.  
 
However, the startup of the Eco City’s first after sales dealership in central London for all Mercedes light 
commercial vehicles in second half of 2010 will enable the Group to utilize its expertise and high service levels to 
increase revenue of this division from the existing cost base. 
 
The parts business continued to supply the local taxi community with LTI parts increasing revenues to £3.1m 
(2009: £2.9m) whilst operating profits were broadly unchanged at £0.4m. 
 
 
  7 
 
New Vehicle Development  
Two new left hand drive Mercedes taxi Vito taxis were developed by ECV during the year in response to requests 
from potential overseas customers, particularly in the Middle East. Discussions have continued, albeit at a 
disappointing pace, and the Group continues to believe this region has strong long term market potential, whilst 
acknowledging that the current political uncertainty in the region has affected ordering cycles. The Group 
continues to explore other markets.   
 
The new Euro V Mercedes-Benz Vito taxi will also meet the Mayor of London’s Air Quality initiatives, under which 
no London “black cab” which is over 15 years old will be licensed from next January.  
 
ECV has also been closely involved with the development of an all-electric taxi as part of the Group’s strategy to 
build low emissions vehicles. A zero-emissions prototype electric taxi, eVito was launched in February 2010 by a 
consortium including ECV. Since then discussions have been held with the Mayor of London for incentives to 
enable the taxi trade to buy and operate such vehicles. 
 
Proposed Transfer of Vito production to Mercedes-Benz  
 
The Group is currently in discussions to transfer the responsibility of the second-stage manufacturing of the Vito 
taxi to Mercedes Benz, having successfully developed and launched the London licensed vehicle in June 2008. The 
expected transfer will enable the Group to substantially de-risk its business as well as focus on its key strengths in 
innovation and development of niche commercial vehicles markets, as well as the distribution, marketing and after 
sales service of the Vito taxi and commercial vehicles. There are no additional cash costs associated with the 
transfer of responsibility to Mercedes-Benz.  
 
Following the transfer, the Group’s subsidiary One80 Limited will receive ongoing licensing fees from the 
incorporation of its rear-wheel turning technology in the Vito taxi. The transition will also enable it to rationalise its 
cost base significantly. 
 
The transfer is not expected to have any significant adverse impact on the business and the Board believes this is 
further evidence of the strength of the Group’s relationship with Mercedes-Benz. ECV continues to be the largest 
seller of the Vito-platform vehicles in the UK and last year also expanded its operations through being granted the 
Mercedes-Benz LCV Parts and Service franchise, covering after-sales servicing of all Mercedes light commercial 
vehicles in central London.  
 
Outlook  
The expected transfer of second-stage manufacturing of the Vito taxi (discussed above) to Mercedes Benz will 
enable the Group to focus on its core strengths and streamline costs making savings in all areas of the business 
amid continuing challenging trading in the first half of 2011. 
  
New taxi sales in the period were hampered by ongoing economic uncertainty and weaker demand for the 
outgoing Euro IV Vito taxis ahead of the widely-anticipated launch in the taxi trade of a new version in April this 
year. The new model is fully compliant with the Euro V vehicle emission regulations which come into force in April 
2012, and will also meet the Mayor of London’s Air Quality initiatives, under which no London “black cab” which is 
over 15 years old will be licensed from next January.   
 
First half revenues are expected to be below the level reported for the same period in 2010 reflecting a small 
decline in market share ahead of the launch of the Euro V in April 2011. However order levels have shown a 
gradual uptake since May and the Group expects sales to gain momentum during the second half and achieve a 
higher market share. Gross margins on new taxis have remained stable. The Board is also encouraged by a recent 
framework agreement with Computer Cab plc, part of the Singapore-based ComfortDelGro Corporation Limited,  8 
 
who have some 3,000 vehicles operating on their London circuit which could result in a number of orders in the 
second half of this year.   
 
With the expected transfer of responsibility for the second stage manufacture to Mercedes-Benz later this year, 
the Group is already implementing a rationalisation plan to reduce annual costs by approximately £0.5m. The 
initial benefits of these actions, together with gradually improving demand for new taxi sales and after-sales 
servicing, are expected to result in a better second half with a positive EBITDA expected for the full financial year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter DaCosta 
 1 July 2011 
