 4
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
The focus of the past year has been on maintaining and
developing EDI’s position in its various markets while
managing the organisational implications of integrating
the former GOAL and LCCIEB operations.
Our marketing, sales and service development plans for
the current year have all benefited from the experience
of the first full year of the EDI operation.This means we
are able to deploy our resources more effectively and
focus on those areas of activity which offer the greatest
potential for growth.Working with customers, we have
also been able to identify areas where we need to
either improve or develop our systems and procedures
with a view to achieving the highest possible levels of
customer service.
Drawing these strands together, we are now actively
planning for the final stages of the reorganisation, taking
into account the impact of further automation of
service delivery and administration.
The pro forma turnover analysis set out below provides
broadly comparative data for the main areas of business
activity after adjusting the 2003 figures to include the
pre-acquisition results of LCCIEB.
Year to 30 September 
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Examinations 5.6 5.7
Vocational qualifications 4.3 3.2
Assessment services:
— SCI Programme 1.0 0.9
— Consultancy projects 0.1 0.4
1.1 1.3
11.0 10.2
Services
Examinations
The pro forma sales value of LCCI branded examination
services has decreased marginally by £0.1m (2%) as a
direct result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Our business in South East Asia is conducted in local
currencies aligned to the US Dollar and the total impact
of currency movements has been to reduce Sterling
revenues by approximately £0.2m.
Sales in Europe continue to expand as a result of
growth in our successful agency operation in Germany
and the development of a number of new agency
arrangements, particularly in EU accession states.
Probably the biggest area of potential sales growth in
this region is in relation to English language
qualifications.Work to develop existing examinations
and introduce a new range of qualifications to meet this
demand is well under way.
Particular emphasis has been placed on appointing new
agents as well as strengthening relationships with our
existing partners in international markets. New or
developing arrangements are now in place in Poland,
Hungary, Italy, Greece, the Middle East and South Africa.
A number of related market initiatives — including an
agents conference — have been well received and
indicate the potential which exists to increase sales by
opening up new markets for our existing range of
services and the introduction of IT -based variants.
In South East Asia, while sales volumes are stable in
Hong Kong and Singapore, there was a decline in
Malaysia.Through ER, we are engaged in discussions with
the Malaysian Government which, we hope, will
strengthen our position in this important market. ER has
reviewed its business model for the China market with
a view to the consolidation of what has been achieved
over recent years while working out the best long-term
approach to this complex market.
With EDI taking management control of ER, the new
arrangements have already led to a more focused
approach to business development and the planned
developments in systems and administration for the
delivery of LCCI services will now be more Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
5
straightforward to implement. However, these are
challenging markets — compounded by the current
depreciation of the US Dollar — and we face vigorous
competition, particularly in accountancy-related subjects,
which represent the largest proportion of our sales in
South East Asia.A concerted effort is being made to
capitalise on the strengths of the LCCI brand in South
East Asia and all of our international markets.
The acquisition of EQL has strengthened our links with
the main professional accountancy bodies and provides
the opportunity to review and develop our bookkeeping
and accountancy exams — particularly with computer-
based delivery in mind.
Vocational Qualifications
The pro forma sales value of vocational qualification
services has increased by £1.1m (34%) compared with
last year.
This strong performance has come through a balanced
mix of general sales growth, securing a number of new
customers and the introduction of new services.All of
our vocational qualification services are specific to the
UK market where government investment in vocational
education and plans for consolidation in the
qualifications supply side present opportunities for
continued growth in this area.
We have reorganised our sales effort to provide a more
focused approach to servicing our existing customers
— mostly private training companies — and increasing
sales to further education colleges which dominate the
delivery of government funded training programmes.
We continue to build our relationships with a number
of specialist awarding bodies with a view to
collaborative working and the provision of back-office
administration and IT development services.The
relationship with EMTA Awards Limited (EAL) — the
specialist awarding body for the engineering sector —
continues to strengthen and we hope to conclude
preliminary discussions with similar organisations over
the months ahead, although bringing these to a
contractual relationship will still take some time.
Since 1 September 2004, all of our UK vocational
qualification services have been presented under the
GOAL brand.This provides for a more integrated
marketing strategy as the link with our school
assessment service means we are able to present GOAL
as representing a lifelong learning range of services —
extending from Key Stage 1 in primary schools through
to adult education.Another benefit of this change is to
reduce the 2.5% annual royalty payment to the London
Chamber of Commerce and Industry for the use of its
name as, in future, we will only be using LCCI as our
international qualifications brand.This royalty is likely to
total around £150,000, which is payable by EDI for the
first time during 2004/05.
Assessment Services
The pro forma sales value of assessment services —
excluding one-off consultancy contracts — has
increased by £0.1m (11%) compared with last year.
During the course of the year we have built up our sales
effort in relation to the School Continuous Improvement
(SCI) Programme and maintained our position in the
market.This effort has shown through in a strong renewal
rate for the Programme from existing customers and a
steady flow of new sales.
As anticipated, sales peaked in the May-July period as
schools spent their allocations under the e-Learning
Credits scheme.This high degree of seasonality has been
taken into account as we continue to strengthen our
sales effort in this market which continues to
demonstrate potential for long-term growth.At the
same time, we are continuing to refine the SCI
Programme and package popular features so they can be
sold separately either online or in CD-ROM format. 6
Chief Executive’s Report
Continuing development work with the Connexions
Service and Learndirect has seen a version of our
innovative Decision Making Readiness Audit go live on
the Learndirect website.
In future, we will only pursue development contracts and
one- off consultancy work where these are likely to lead
to a long-term relationship with the commissioning
organisation. However, the acquisition of EQL means we
have taken on a number of service and development
contracts with professional bodies and examination
boards — using the i-assess platform — so activity in this
area is now likely to grow again.
Service Delivery
Currently we employ 106 staff (2003: 83) including 12
who are temporary. In addition, over 350 people are
members of our Professional Register working for EDI
as required on a consultancy basis, providing a wide
range of specialist skills, covering question writing,
examination marking, verification of vocational
qualifications and running training events for schools
using the SCI Programme.
The Board has approved plans for a major systems
development project and work is already well under way
on this with the aim of automating many more of our
administrative processes and enabling customers direct
access to both place and monitor orders.The estimated
cost of the systems development project is £0.7m, which
we expect to fall evenly over this year and next.
As part of this exercise, we are working with ER and
our agents in the German market to plan and test how
we can delegate more of the local administrative
processes to them.This should have a further positive
impact on both service levels and costs, as well as the
possibility of introducing similar arrangements in to
other markets.
Engaging representatives of the Professional Register in
our systems development project and providing training
and support in new and automated procedures is a
priority for the year ahead. Similar considerations apply
to our UK and international network of over 5,000
education and training organisations which are
registered with EDI as approved contacts for the
delivery of our services.
Printing, storage and distribution of examination and
qualification papers and support materials is a critical
aspect of our ‘supply chain’ and this work is contracted
out.We are working closely with our subcontractor on
the development of a fully automated ordering and
tracking system for our vocational qualifications materials
as this is a critical service area for our customers.
Despite the growing demand for computer-based
assessment services, there will continue to be significant
demand for paper-based services into the future which
means the main opportunities in this area will be in
relation to administrative efficiency.
Use of computer-based systems was central to the
philosophy of the original GOAL concept.The
innovative use of technology is still at the heart of our
strategy.The GOAL assessment system provides a
reliable means of delivering online assessment and
testing services to schools, colleges and the workplace.
The acquisition of EQL gives us access to the i-assess
platform which has been developed with the
requirements of delivering and administering ‘high
stakes’ professional qualifications in mind.Taken
together, the GOAL and i-assess platforms and the skills
of the staff who have developed them put EDI in a very
strong position to exploit the global trend towards
computer-based assessments.This capability also
provides the opportunity to further simplify
administration and deliver a wider range of learner
support materials in integrated, customised packages. Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
7
These considerations are at the heart of our systems
development project and also form the basis for a
careful review of our long-term software development
and maintenance requirements.
Organisation Development
The most significant development on the organisation
front is the Board’s decision to wind down the
operation of the administration centre in Sidcup and
transfer all of EDI’s activities to a single site near to the
current Head Office location in Leamington Spa.
The estimated cost of setting up a single site operation
and closing our existing facilities, including redundancy
and recruitment costs, is £0.75m, of which £0.43m has
been provided for in these accounts.The majority of
these costs are expected to be incurred during 2004/05.
While a number of functions have already been
transferred from Sidcup to Leamington, particular care
will be taken to transfer examinations and qualifications
administration over a period of up to 12 months to
ensure there is no disruption to these critical aspects of
EDI’s services.
To support our system development work and
organisational restructuring, we have strengthened the
management team through the appointment of Stewart
Jardine as Operations Director. He has extensive
experience of both the development and delivery of
education and assessment services working with public
and private sector organisations.
The Board of ER has been restructured to reflect EDI’s
controlling interest.Three EDI Nominees have been
appointed to the Board, including myself as Executive
Chairman.All day-to-day operations are now managed
from Singapore by an experienced manager — who
used to work for LCCIEB in the UK — reporting direct
to me.
Following the acquisition of EQL, the EDI Finance
Director and I have been appointed as the two
Directors of the subsidiary.The existing management
continues to have day-to-day responsibility for this
specialist operation which employs 9 staff based in
Livingston, Scotland.
During this period of significant change within the
organisation, HR management, staff development and
systems accreditation are of particular importance. In
recognition of this, we are in the final stages of
appointing a professional personnel and quality manager
to provide a focus for this work.
Looking Ahead
The EDI organisation is going through a period of
significant change and development.
A tremendous amount has been achieved over the past
year but the Board’s decision to invest in major systems
development and move to a single site will transform
the organisation over the next two years.We have the
opportunity to create a world-class organisation,
committed to its many partners and customers.
Both in the UK and internationally, governments and
individuals continue to invest heavily in education and
vocational training programmes as a critical factor for
economic growth and personal development.
Assessment and qualification services are an essential
element for both the design and quality assurance of
learning programmes, and this is leading to increased
demand for reliable, professional services.
EDI is already well placed to respond to these
opportunities and implementation of the plans set out
in this Annual Report can only strengthen our position.
Nigel Snook
Chief Executive
22 November 2004
