 2
Chairman’s Statement
Review of Results 
At the half-year I reported that the Group had moved
into profitability and this position has been reinforced
over the past six months.
The benefits of the acquisition of the London Chamber
of Commerce and Industry Examinations Board
(LCCIEB) are being realised and, coupled with strict
cost control and improving market conditions, this has
provided a sound financial base for our development
plans.The progress of the past year has been achieved
despite the anticipated impact of a weaker US Dollar on
revenues from South East Asia.
The business of the LCCIEB was acquired in December
2002, and the comparative figures in the Group profit
and loss account include its results for the period from
the date of the acquisition.A controlling interest in
Educational Resources Pte Limited (ER) was acquired on
24 June 2004 and trading is included in these results
from that date.
Audited accounts for the year to 30 September 2004
show a turnover of £11.0m (2003: £8.6m — 18 months
for GOAL assessment services and nine months for the
LCCIEB).The operating profit for the period before
amortisation of goodwill and exceptional costs was
£0.7m (2003: loss of £1.4m — as restated).
Basic earnings per share — adjusted to exclude
amortisation and impairment of goodwill, deferred
taxation and exceptional items — amounted to 1.5p
(2003: loss per share of 3.1p).
At 30 September 2004 net cash stood at £2.3m (2003:
£1.3m).The seasonality of examination revenues means
that the cash balance at 30 September includes £0.5m
(2003: £0.1m) of sales income received in advance.
Business Development
The Group has taken a number of strategic steps to
strengthen its position in the marketplace. In the
important South East Asia market, we have increased
our shareholding in Educational Resources Pte Limited
(ER) from 19.79% to 50.38%, enabling EDI to take
management control of this important agency operation.
On 1 October 2004, we acquired EQL Assessment
Limited (EQL) which specialises in providing e-
assessment services to professional bodies — mainly in
the financial services sector — using its innovative i-
assess technology platform.
To consolidate these developments and move the
Group on to the next stage of its evolution, at its July
2004 meeting, the Board approved a comprehensive
plan to invest in the further automation of our
administrative and service delivery systems and to move
to a single site operation.
Despite moving into profitability, the profit and loss
account shows the Company is carrying a comparatively
large deficit, which will take a significant number of years
of consistent, profitable trading to eliminate. In the light
of this, the Board will seek shareholder approval at the
AGM for a reduction of the share premium account to
eliminate this deficit and thus enable the Company to
pay dividends out of profits sooner than it would
otherwise be able.
Over the past year the Group has addressed, in
consultation with the Trustees of the Scheme, the
liabilities of the LCCIEB final salary pension fund which Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
3
were taken on at the time of the acquisition.The
Scheme was closed to further accrual in November
2003 and an agreement has now been reached with the
Trustees for EDI to contribute at the rate of
approximately £120,000 per annum over the next 10
years starting on 1 October 2004.
Board
As already announced, I shall be standing down as
Chairman at the AGM in January 2005 but will continue
to serve as the senior independent non-executive
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee.
Richard Price, who joined the Board in March 2003 and
is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee, will take
over chairmanship of the Board. Richard brings a wealth
of relevant experience to the chairmanship. Barrie Clark
will chair the Audit Committee.
Staff
I would like to pay particular tribute to the contribution
of the staff of EDI. In a period of significant and
continuing change, their performance has been
exemplary.
Prospects
EDI has made significant progress over the past year.We
have created a distinctive organisation through the
acquisition of the LCCIEB operation and its integration
with the GOAL technology capability. Securing
management control of ER and the acquisition of EQL
have strengthened our market position and broadened
our range of services.
EDI is now profitable and has established a sound
financial base for future development, in particular in 
the short term in investment in organisation
restructuring and strengthening our sales operation, in
optimising our service development capability and
modernising administration systems.While the Board is
mindful of the impact of the costs associated with this
investment programme, we expect the positive
performance of the second half of 2003/04 to flow
through to the current year.
There is the prospect of progressive growth in the
second half of 2004/05 flowing through into 2005/06
when we should benefit from the investments we are
making.
Sir Bryan Nicholson
Chairman
22 November 2004
