 4
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
The key tasks of the past 12 months have been the
implementation of our organisation development plan
and the introduction of a more focused sales effort
aimed at the business areas which offer the greatest
potential for growth.
At the same time, we have increased the scope of our
business systems project and developed strategies to
address the areas of our business where we face the
greatest challenges in the market.
Progress on all of these fronts has enabled the
Company to deliver continued business growth and
provide an increasingly strong foundation to support
our plans for the future.
The turnover analysis set out below provides
comparative data for the main areas of business activity:
Year to 30 September
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Vocational qualifications 4.82 3.62
Examinations 5.11 5.55
Assessment services 1.09 1.02
Service contracts 2.00 0.61
Other 0.17 0.16
13.19 10.96
Organisation Development
Our development programme has covered the three
main areas of relocation of office facilities, restructuring
of management and staff and administration systems
development.
Relocation
The move into our new head office building,
International House — on the outskirts of Coventry —
which is also the base for the majority of our business
operations, was completed on 4 July 2005 ahead of the
target date of 1 October 2005.At the same time the
former LCCIEB office in Sidcup was closed.A small
number of specialist administrative and IT staff have
been retained at Sidcup to assist with transitional issues
and to oversee the IT facilities until these are fully
transferred to Coventry with the introduction of the
new administrative system during early 2006.The
former head office in Leamington Spa was also vacated
in July 2005.
The office closures and relocation programme were
completed within budget although there have been some
additional duplicate costs as a result of the earlier than
expected move into International House.We are actively
marketing the surplus leases and we have made an
additional onerous lease provision of £718,000 to cover
ongoing liabilities.
Restructuring
To coincide with the office closure and relocation
programme, we introduced a new management
structure with effect from July 2005.
The new structure reflects the benefits of co-location 
of staff teams and has been designed to bring more
focused direction to our key functional business areas 
of education development, business development,
operations and finance and administration.
The year end head count has reduced from 135 to 116
at a time when the level of business activity has
increased by 20%.We expect to make further efficiency
gains as the new structure fully beds in and the
administrative systems are introduced during the first
half of 2006.
The balance of staff between administration and
business development reflects the improving level of
operational efficiency and our increasing focus on
operational and business development activities:
Staff levels at 30 September
2005 2004
Operations 44 48
Education Development 18 12
Business Development 31 35
Finance and Administration 23 40
T otal 116 135 Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
5
In addition to the main reorganisation programme, we
have also restructured and integrated into our
operations division the specialist team of staff based in
Livingston who are responsible for the development and
operation of the EQL i-assess platform.The one
member of staff who transferred to EDI as a result of
the acquisition of Qualifications for Industry Ltd (QFI)
has joined the UK business development team.
Working with the Board of Educational Resources Pte
Ltd (ER) we have agreed a new structure for that
organisation which will more clearly separate the
operations function from the business development
function.This is in anticipation of the transfer of more
routine administrative work from the UK to the ER
operations office in Kuala Lumpur and an investment in
strengthening the Company’s business development
capabilities. During the course of the year we will be
reviewing ER’s property requirements to ensure these
properly match up with the new shape of the business.
The current ER head count, included in the totals, is 24
— spread across offices in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Hong
Kong and China.
Administration Systems Development
Work to develop and implement our new customised
administration system Campus is now entering its final
stages.This project has been based on a full review of all of
our business processes and, as a result, many of these have
been either streamlined or replaced before new software
has been developed. Because of this, the new systems will
be both more efficient and effective as they will better
integrate the ‘supply chain’ of the qualifications process and
enable us to delegate more of the general administration
down to customer level.When the new arrangements are
fully in place we will have significantly improved both
service levels and the degree of responsiveness we are able
to offer our customers.
The new system for the administration of international
qualifications is already being used in our major markets
in Germany and South East Asia with other markets
coming on stream over the next few months.The
second stage of the project is to introduce Campus for
the UK vocational qualifications market. Pilot work with
key customers is already under way and we expect this
exercise to be fully completed by summer 2006.
The costs of this development programme are in line
with the original Board estimates.The continued
refinement and development of our IT systems and
platforms will be a regular feature of our business
operation.
Although our organisation development programme will
deliver savings in overhead and administrative costs, the
main driver has been to modernise and further
professionalise the delivery of our range of services 
as a basis for business growth and development.
Services 
Vocational Qualifications
Sales of vocational qualifications for the year rose by
33% to £4.82m.
This continued strong growth reflects the continued
introduction of new products and services, improved
performance by our key customers and securing new
customers, particularly in the important further
education college sector which represents around 80%
of the total UK market.
Our product development programme has benefited
from our close links with a number of the Sector Skills
Councils — who are responsible for vocational
qualifications standards — and the upgrading of our
accredited status by the Qualification and Curriculum
Authority (QCA).The latter will enable us to secure
regulatory approval for new qualifications on a special
five-day turnaround programme. EDI is one of the first
awarding bodies to achieve this status.
The government — through QCA — is continuing to
review the arrangements for the form and structure of
vocational qualifications in the future and the Learning
and Skills Council (LSC) has also introduced changes to
the way in which government-supported vocational
training programmes will be funded.The impact of these
developments is likely to be spread over a period of 6
Chief Executive’s Report
two or three years and should offer opportunities for
EDI to develop new services tailored to meet the
requirements of the developing scene.
The acquisition of QFI brings in existing sales of around
£120,000 per annum together with a new range of
specialist qualifications and customers in the cultural
heritage sector.This sits well with our existing work with
the retail, hospitality and tourism sectors and, therefore,
offers the opportunity for the full range of EDI products
and services to be offered to this new customer base.
EDI has also been successful in gaining accreditation for a
new suite of English for Speakers of Other Languages
(“ESOL”) qualifications.This extends the range of
qualification types, and should be particularly beneficial in
extending the college-based business.
Plans are in place to continue to strengthen our business
development capabilities in this important area of our
business. In particular, we will develop our links with the
further education sector and also seek to increase our
presence in Scotland,Wales and Northern Ireland.
Examinations
Sales of our international qualification services for the
year were down 8% on last year at £5.11m.
The overall position in our international markets
disguises a number of significant trends.While the
position in the established markets of Malaysia (down
26% in value) and Germany (down 19% in value) has
declined, we have seen strong growth in our newer
markets (up 27% in value) albeit from a lower base.
As part of the development of the international
qualifications market we have now completed a review
of the contractual arrangements with our agents.This
will lead to a stronger base for the administration and
management of our agency agreements and the
development of more formal partnerships or joint
venture agreements in the more significant markets.
We have closely reviewed the strategy and management
arrangements for ER and we expect the management
focus and improved business development and
administration capability which will flow from this to
have a positive impact on our activities in South 
East Asia.
We have recently entered into an agreement with
Kuwait Petroleum Corporation to accredit its training
programmes.This is an important development which
should start to generate revenue from early 2006 and
provide further opportunities in the future.We already
have a well-established market in Cyprus and have
recently appointed an agent based there to undertake a
business development role in the Eastern Mediterranean
and the Middle East.
We are nearing the end of an important programme to
modernise our range of English language assessments
and qualifications and make as many of these as possible
available online. Over the year ahead we will be
undertaking a similar exercise to refresh our financial
qualifications to reflect the changing requirements of the
European and wider global markets for financial
qualifications.
Underpinning all of our activities in international
markets is an increased emphasis on the formal
accreditation of our qualifications both by local and UK
authorities.This is particularly important where students
are looking to progress to either higher or professional
qualifications and need to demonstrate that they hold
formally recognised qualifications.The London Chamber
of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) brand and history
when coupled with formal accreditations provides a
powerful base for promoting the brand and introducing
new qualifications and learner support services.
Assessment Services
Sales of assessment services to UK schools for the year
were up 7% on last year at £1.09m.
After a reasonably buoyant first half, the second half of
the year, as anticipated, has seen a slowing down of the
schools market.This overall position disguises important
trends in the market, particularly an increase of 35% in
higher value sales to secondary schools which has offset
lower levels of sales to primary schools.The latter are
currently sensitive about the potential financial impact of
the new arrangements which began in September 2005 Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
7
to give teachers a half-day away from the classroom for
planning, preparation and assessment work.
Looking ahead, the government’s White Paper (High
Standards, Better Schools For All) envisages addressing
weaknesses in assessment through structured,
personalised programmes.The increase in rigour in this
area, together with the emphasis on stronger self-
evaluation through electronic tools, should provide a
positive backdrop for further sales of our Schools
Continuous Improvement Programme. In the coming
year greater efforts will be directed at developing the
range of our assessment services and, in particular, giving
schools the option to purchase either online or CD-
based assessments on a subject by subject basis.We are
also strengthening both our product and business
development teams as we continue to establish our
long-term position in this specialist market.
Service Contracts
The value of service contracts for the year were up
228% on last year at £2.00m.
Significant progress has been made in this important
business area over the past 12 months reflecting our
strategy of developing and promoting specialist
assessment software and administrative support
services.
During 2005/06 we will seek to consolidate and grow
our contractual arrangements with our existing
customers although there are clear indications that
other organisations are seeking to outsource their
technology and administration arrangements.
We believe our continued investment in the
development of flexible, automated systems stands us in
good stead both in terms of servicing our own
customers and responding to changes in government
requirements. It also provides the base for developing
our range of assessment, logistics and support services
for other organisations.
Looking Ahead
After a period of significant internal and external
change, the final stages of which will be completed
during the first half of 2006, EDI has a stable platform
for performance and growth.
Alongside our organisation development programme,
we have continued to strengthen our position in most
of our markets and develop a better understanding of
the key drivers for growth and how most effectively
these can be addressed.We are continuing to strengthen
our product and business development capabilities and
increase both the range and professionalism of our
service delivery and market development arrangements
both in the UK and internationally. Our links with
government departments and agencies both at home
and abroad are strengthening and EDI is becoming an
increasingly influential player in a number of important
markets.
We now have the potential to develop the scale and
range of our operations both through organic growth
and through new partnerships and acquisitions.
Nigel Snook
Chief Executive
23 November 2005
