 2
Chairman’s Statement
Review of Results 
At the half year I reported that the Group’s financial
performance had continued to strengthen and this trend
has continued over the past six months.
Our business has become more broadly based and this
has enabled us to absorb more readily the impact of
fluctuations in market conditions for our services, both
in the UK and internationally, and focus on the areas
which offer the greatest potential for growth.
The decision to fundamentally reorganise the Company
and move to a single primary site has been fully
implemented and is already bringing operational
benefits.The completion of our systems development
programme during the next financial year will reinforce
these gains.
These results reflect the acquisition of EQL Assessment
Limited (EQL) with effect from 1 October 2004 and of
Qualifications for Industry (QFI) with effect from 
5 September 2005.
Audited accounts for the year to 30 September 2005
show a turnover of £13.2m (2004: £11.0m).The
operating profit for the year before exceptional
operating items and amortisation of goodwill was
£816,000 (2004: £741,000).
The leases of the Sidcup and Leamington Spa offices,
previously used by the Company, are being actively
marketed. In connection with this, the provision for
onerous leases has been increased by £0.7m to £1.2m
to cover future rent exposure.
Basic earnings per share — adjusted to exclude
exceptional operating items, amortisation of goodwill
and deferred taxation — amounted to 1.5p (2004: 1.5p).
At 30 September 2005 net cash stood at £1.8m 
(2004: £2.3m).
Business Development
The most significant development during the course of
the past year has been the completion of the final stages
of the integration of the London Chamber of
Commerce and Industry Examinations Board (LCCIEB)
business which was acquired in December 2002.This
has been achieved through the closure of the former
LCCIEB offices in Sidcup and a move out of the
previous head office in Leamington Spa to a new office
on the outskirts of Coventry where all of our main
business activities are now located.These moves were
completed on budget and ahead of schedule in early July
2005.Work is now under way to reduce exposure to
the surplus property leases.
The EQL business — which specialises in providing 
e-assessment services — has also been restructured.The
small team of specialist staff, based in Livingston, are being
relocated to a new self-contained office within the same
building after a period of co-location with BPP Holdings
plc, the company from which EQL was acquired.
Since gaining management control in June 2004, further
work has taken place to strengthen the operation of
Educational Resources Pte Limited (ER) — EDI’s
subsidiary in South East Asia.A detailed business
strategy and management action plan has been agreed
with the minority shareholders.This will see the transfer
of administrative work from the UK to Kuala Lumpur
and a strengthening of ER’s marketing and sales
capability over the year ahead. Market conditions in
South East Asia remain challenging.
On 5 September 2005 EDI acquired QFI, a small UK
accredited awarding body which specialises in providing
vocational qualifications services to the cultural heritage
sector.This operation fits in well with our wider
vocational qualifications product range and has been
straightforward to integrate.
The co-ordination and integration of all of these
organisation developments is being underpinned by the
in-house development of a customised IT -based
administration system called Campus.The new system is Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
3
now entering the final stages of development and testing
for the administration of all our qualifications services.
During the year the Company secured the authority of
the Court under the Companies Act 1985 s135(1) and
(2)(b) for a reduction of £9.841m in the share premium
account largely to eliminate the deficit being carried in
the profit and loss account.This will allow the Company
to pay dividends out of future profits.A non-
distributable special reserve of £212,000 has been
created as a requirement of the Court.
Board and Staff
I would like to thank my colleague Directors for their
support in my first year as Chairman. Brian Harris will
not be offering himself for re-election at the AGM
following his retirement as Chairman of the LCCI
Commercial Education Trust. He has made an important
contribution to the development of EDI since the
acquisition of LCCIEB and the Board wishes him well
for the future.
In February 2005 Kumasaran Padmanathan resigned 
as Finance Director, as a result of the decision to close
the Sidcup office, and has been replaced by Neal
Gossage.
I would like to thank and congratulate the staff of EDI
on their commitment throughout what has been a
particularly challenging year.We have said goodbye to
the majority of staff who worked at Sidcup and
recruited a largely new team to work in the new
Coventry office.This has been achieved with the
minimum of disruption.
Prospects
EDI has continued to make good progress over the past
year. Our investment in restructuring and relocation of
the business to consolidate the various acquisitions and
organisational changes of the past two years is now
complete.This and the completion of our business
systems project — when coupled with the Company’s
sound finances — provide a firm base for the
implementation of our longer-term strategy.
We are now in a strong position to leverage our status
as an accredited awarding body to grow the existing
business areas and expand into support materials
publishing and learning programmes development,
student recruitment and support administration services.
EDI has made a satisfactory start to the new financial
year.The vocational qualifications business continues to
perform strongly, but the UK schools and international
qualifications markets continue to be challenging.The full
benefits of our organisation development programme
will fall in the second half of 2005/06 although I look
forward to reporting continued progress throughout
the coming year.
Richard Price
Chairman
23 November 2005
