 2
Chairman’s Statement
Review of Results
2005/06 has been a very productive year during which
EDI has reinforced its position as a leading provider of
vocational and business qualifications and of innovative
technology-based assessment services.
Over the course of the year we have adopted
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and
completed major organisation and systems development
programmes.At the same time we have strengthened
our business development capability both in the UK and
internationally.
These results reflect the acquisition of the Joint
Examining Board (JEB) with effect from 26 May 2006.
Audited accounts for the year to 30 September 2006
show a turnover of £14.18m (2005: £13.19m).The
operating profit for the year was £1.36m (2005: loss of
£53,000).Adjusted profit for the year was £1.13m
£2005: £735,000).This comprises the operating profit
adjusted for the movement in the onerous lease
provision and the net interest charge for the year.
Basic earnings per share were 2.3p (2005: loss of 0.2p)
and the adjusted earnings per share were 2.2p
(2005: 1.4p).
The lease of the former Leamington Spa head office
building was assigned in December 2005 and we have
had some success in sub-letting space in the former
London Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Examinations Board (LCCIEB) offices in Sidcup.The
onerous lease provision at 30 September 2006 of
£901,000 represents full provision for all vacant
properties until the end of the lease terms.
At 30 September 2006 net cash stood at £2.3m 
(2005: £1.8m).
As anticipated, the Board is delighted to announce that
it has recommended the payment of a maiden dividend
of 0.2p per share.The dividend will be paid on 5 January
2007 to shareholders who were on the register on 1
December 2006.
Business Development
The vocational qualifications and assessment services
business in the UK has continued to make good
progress although the renewal rate for schools’ services
has been lower than anticipated. In international markets
our position has been consolidated with improved
performance in Germany and the new financial
arrangements with our agent in Zimbabwe working
satisfactorily.
In parallel with our organisational changes, we have
undertaken a review of our full range of qualifications
and assessments.This has led to new arrangements being
introduced for the commissioning and accreditation of
our services which will both increase the efficiency of
our development cycle and more effectively ensure the
quality of our qualifications.This exercise has also
included a review of our ‘back office’ service contracts,
especially those based on the i-assess platform acquired
from BPP Holdings plc during 2004.
The acquisition of JEB and from 2 October 2006 the
Jetset range of English language qualifications has
expanded our range of services and introduced new
customer groups.
Our frontline business development capability has been
strengthened with the appointment of a new Director
of Business Development.This has led to a restructuring
of our existing sales teams and the appointment in the
UK of additional experienced field sales staff.Work is
also under way to reorganise and strengthen our field
sales capability in international markets. New
appointments have already been made in Asia and
Cyprus and discussions with key agents about future
arrangements are underway.
This emphasis on business development for the year
ahead will be supported by an increased level of
marketing and promotional activity in both the UK and
our international markets.
Organisation Development
We have continued to invest in our business
infrastructure. In addition to completing the move into
our new headquarters building in Coventry, we have
relocated the i-assess software team in Livingston, Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
3
Scotland, opened an office in Limassol, Cyprus — and
appointed three staff there — and through Educational
Resources, we have set up an administration centre for
Asia in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
On the business systems front we have completed the
design and build of our bespoke qualifications
administration platform, Campus.This project was
expanded significantly from the original plan and has
enabled us to introduce comprehensive changes to our
business processes. Campus has been used to operate
our international services since last November.The final
stages of rolling out the system to support our UK
business commenced on 1 October 2006.We expect to
be in a position to decommission all legacy systems by
early 2007.
The completion of these fundamental organisation and
systems development projects marks the conclusion of
a major capital investment programme.
Board and Staff
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my
colleague Directors for their ongoing support and
commitment.
My particular thanks and congratulations go to all of the
staff of EDI who have contributed so ably to a wide
range of organisational and business development
initiatives over the past year.
Prospects
As these results show, our extensive organisation
development programme — which is now successfully
completed — has had a positive impact on our
performance.We have also made good progress in
updating and extending our range of qualifications and
growing our customer base, particularly in the UK.
We are well placed to exploit further the benefits of
our new structure and systems over the year ahead and
the prospects for organic growth are good.As
previously reported we are investing in market entry
opportunities and continue to investigate acquisition
opportunities with a view to expanding the scale and
range of our services both in the UK and internationally.
I look forward to reporting further positive progress
during the year ahead.
Richard Price
Chairman
20 November 2006
