 4
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
Our priorities over the past year have been to complete
our organisation and systems development projects, and
to move the focus of our attention on to market
centred service and business development activities.
Sound progress on these fronts has enabled the Group
both to deliver significant growth in profitability and
enhance EDI’s reputation with accreditation bodies, our
wide range of commercial partners and customers.
The turnover analysis set out below provides
comparative data for the main areas of business activity.
Year to 30 September
2006 2005
£m £m
UK qualifications and
assessment services 6.74 5.91
International qualifications 5.28 5.11
Service contracts 2.11 2.00
Other 0.05 0.17
T otal 14.18 13.19
Services
UK Qualifications and Assessment Services
Sales of UK qualifications and assessment services for
the year rose by 14% to £6.74m.
Our vocational qualifications business — which excludes
sales to schools — grew by 19%.This includes revenue
from the acquisition of the Joint Examining Board (JEB)
which contributed £122,000 during the second half of
the year.This performance reflects continued progress
with our existing customers, growth in new business —
with around 150 new customers signed up, including 40
further education colleges — and the positive impact of
new products, particularly our online key skills and
technical certificate assessments.
We have continued to work closely with a number of
Sector Skills Councils.After a competitive tendering
exercise, the new Creative and Cultural Skills Council
appointed EDI as its preferred awarding services
partner.We have also worked closely with the Financial
Services Skills Council and recently announced the
launch of a new range of qualifications in retail financial
services which focus on banking, general and life
insurance and investment administration.
We have also been involved in small scale, specialist
assessment development activity working with
Learndirect, a number of Connexions Services in
England and Careers Scotland.
New sales of assessment services to schools have been
at the same level as last year but renewal rates have
been lower than expected.To counter this we have set
up a professional unit to support new and existing
school customers through a programme of training
events, seminars and proactive follow-up activity.
During the final quarter of the year we undertook an
extensive communication and training programme to
prepare our vocational qualifications services customers
for the roll-out of our new Campus administration
platform with effect from 1 October 2006.This has
been a major undertaking but successful implementation
of the new system will enable us to greatly enhance our
level of administrative support to our customers and
enable us to deliver industry leading service levels.
Over the course of the year we have continued to
develop and refine our range of qualifications and the Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
5
acquisition of JEB — which provides a range of specialist
vocational training and ICT teaching qualifications — has
added an important new dimension to our product
range.
We continue to build our business development and
customer relationship management capability.This is
particularly important for the UK vocational
qualifications market where the key differentiator
between the larger awarding bodies is customer service
and support.To reinforce this, we are developing long-
term partnership arrangements with our larger private
sector training provider and FE college customers.
Having reviewed the operation of our Schools
Continuous Improvement Programme during the
second half of the year we now have detailed plans in
place to refresh the delivery platform and better focus
the presentation and packaging of our services to
schools.We expect these developments and the
creation of the professional support unit to have a
positive impact on both new sales and renewal rates.
International Qualifications
Sales of international qualifications for the year rose by
3.3% to £5.28m. It is pleasing to note that the actions
taken over the past 18 months have had the effect of
halting the decline in sales as recorded in previous
reports. Indeed, had it not been for the impact of the
currency crisis in Zimbabwe which, as reported
previously, has had a direct impact on revenues then the
growth in sales would have been in the order of 10%.
Although we now have a hard currency agreement in
place with our Zimbabwe agent which has generated
around £40,000 of revenue in the second half, numbers
of students and revenues are expected to decline
significantly over the coming year and this has been
taken into account in our plans.
In our important South East Asia market sales were up
by 6% with particularly strong growth in Hong Kong.
However, the markets in Malaysia and Singapore are still
somewhat fragile and require careful management and
support.After a challenging period in the German
market as a result of a generally weak economic
situation, sales recovered well in the second half leading
to overall growth of 3% for the year as a whole.
Sales in Cyprus, the Eastern Mediterranean and the
Middle East have strengthened considerably since the
appointment of a field representative based in Cyprus
and our decision to open a local office in Limassol to
take over day-to-day administrative responsibilities from
the British Council. In particular, our success in securing
an initial contract with the Kuwait Petroleum
Corporation is acting as an important shop window for
our English language assessment services in the Middle
East and particularly with the petro-chemicals industry.
We have been using the Campus administration platform
to service our international qualifications markets for
almost twelve months and this has had a significant
impact on the efficient running of our complex exams
administration arrangements. Most important, the
introduction of Campus has enabled us to devolve
significant aspects of this work to Educational Resources
(our subsidiary in Asia), to our new office in Cyprus and
to a number of agents.The system also allows us to be
much more responsive to short-term customer
requirements including last minute examination
registrations. 6
Chief Executive’s Report
We have overhauled our arrangements for examiner
management which includes the production of exam papers.
This process will be further automated during the course of
the year with the introduction of a Test Management System
which we are currently in the final stages of developing.The
management of our international qualifications development
work has been significantly strengthened by the appointment
of the former JEB executive director to the post of Head of
International Qualifications.
The continuous process of reviewing and modernising
our range of business qualifications — including the
launch of a new Introduction to Book-keeping qualification
— and English language qualifications has led to the
development of a number of new syllabi. Our English
range has also been augmented by the acquisition of the
Jetset (Junior English T est and Senior English T est)
examinations from AQA and securing the rights to a
specialist T eachers of English for Speakers of Other
Languages (TESOL) programme which links well with the
JEB range of trainer training qualifications.
Work will continue to make more of our international
qualifications available online where there is a clear demand
for this service and sufficiently robust local IT networks.
Key to developing our international qualifications
business is the appointment of further full-time EDI field
staff to ensure we have local representation in each of
our main continental markets.As part of this plan to
manage more tightly our distribution channel we will
also be reviewing with our agents the arrangements
under which they currently operate to ensure that we
have full geographical and product range coverage in
each of our established and developing markets.This
approach will enable us to manage more directly
marketing and public relations activities on a co-
ordinated, worldwide basis.
Service Contracts
Sales of service contracts for the year were up 5.5% at
£2.11m.This includes the impact of a mutual agreement
to wind up one of our unprofitable contracts which
generated revenue of £145,000 last year. Revenue
growth of 14% was achieved on continuing contracts.
Our priorities for the year were to review and carefully
define the specification for each of our service contracts
and to refine the i-assess online assessment delivery
platform which we acquired from BPP Holdings plc.This
exercise has led to organic growth in existing contracts
and a better understanding of future opportunities with
our existing customer base.
The in-house development of our Campus
administration platform and the completion of our
relocation and reorganisation projects reduced the
management time available to focus on securing new
service contracts. However, with the completion of
these projects, greater emphasis will be placed on
targeted marketing of our logistics, qualifications
administration and software services over the year
ahead.This will include seeking to expand and develop
our relationship with our logistics services partner.
Organisation Development
As reported elsewhere, our various relocation and
reorganisation projects are now complete.We have made
good progress in disposing of surplus leases, including the
assignment of the lease for the previous head office
building in Leamington Spa and sub-letting of space in the
former London Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Examinations Board offices in Sidcup, Kent. In total, this
has enabled us to release £198,000 from the Group’s Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
7
onerous lease provision and the remaining provision is
now sufficient to cover fully all costs in relation to vacant
properties until the end of the lease terms.We are
continuing to market the remaining space actively and
hope to report further progress during the first half of the
new financial year.
During the course of the past year we have fine-tuned
our organisation structure to reflect the benefits of
continued automation of our administrative
arrangements and the switch of emphasis towards
business development and customer relationship
management.This is reflected in the changing balance of
staff numbers between the main areas of business
activity.
Staff levels at 30 September
2006 2005
Operations 56 44
Education Development 21 18
Business Development 43 31
Finance and Administration 22 23
T otal 142 116
The number of staff employed by Educational Resources
— included above — in its network of offices around
South East Asia has increased by 2 to 26.This reflects
the setting up of the new administration office in Kuala
Lumpur and the appointment of additional sales staff.
Integration of the JEB operation has been relatively
straightforward as only one senior member of staff
came across with the organisation.The operation of the
small JEB office which had two staff was wound up at
the end of September.
The integration of the Jetset product range — which we
have operated under licence since July and formally
acquired on 2 October 2006 — was achieved without
the transfer of any staff and was completed during
October.
With the commencement of the final stages of the roll-
out of the Campus administration platform from 
1 October our major systems development activity is
now all but complete. However, we will continue to
refine and develop the Campus platform as well as
developing new systems to improve efficiency and
quality control, including our Test Management System.
Looking Ahead
Our key business development activity for the 2006/07
financial year is to exploit fully our new organisation
structure, business systems, product range and
strengthened sales capability, both in the UK and
overseas.We will, of course, pay particular attention to
the products and markets which offer the greatest
opportunities for growth.At the same time, we will also
focus on the smaller foreign markets which have been
under managed and in decline for a number of years but
where there is the possibility to return to growth.
We will continue to explore opportunities to augment
our existing range of products to provide an extended
range of services to our customers.This could include
the production of new support materials — which can
be available either in paper-based or electronic form —
professional trainer training services and business and
administration consultancy and solutions.
We are continuing to research and seek out
opportunities to work with higher education institutions
in the UK and abroad where we believe the opportunity
exists for strong links between EDI’s range of
qualification services and graduate programmes. Such
strategic partnerships, building on our extensive
international network of agents and education
providers, present the opportunity for joint product
development as well as the establishment of student
recruitment and support services.
In addition to these in-house developments, we continue
to investigate potential acquisition opportunities either
to strengthen our qualifications and assessment
activities or to enable us to speed up our entry into
related areas which offer the greatest prospect of
exploiting business synergies.
Over the past three years EDI has become an influential
force in the UK qualifications and assessments industry
and we continue to be one of the largest exporters of
examination services working in over 80 countries.
Following our extensive investment programme over
the past 18 months and building on this year’s trading
performance the management team and staff of EDI are
excited about the prospects for the development of our
business over the year ahead.
Nigel Snook
Chief Executive
20 November 2006
