 4
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5 144
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
We have made further significant progress over the past
12 months and this is reflected in the level of sales
growth, an improvement in our operational efficiency
and the Company’s financial performance.The
organisation development work we have undertaken
over the past three years has transformed the business.
The underlying efficiency of our business systems and
the service levels we are able to achieve, when coupled
with the increasing proportion of our services which
are provided online, are generating significant new
demand for our services.This is particularly the case in
relation to our vocational qualifications services in the
UK.The sophistication of our systems and fulfilment
arrangements is also having a positive effect on the
development of our service contracts business which
has been a major growth area over the past 12 months.
In our international markets, despite the impact of the
weaker dollar, we are seeing broad-based growth and
the development of much closer working relationships
with our many and varied agents around the world.
T o reinforce this progress, our attention is increasingly
moving on to greater emphasis on promotional and
marketing activities, and strengthening our business
development team so that we can spend more time
working with existing and potential customers.
The turnover analysis set out below provides
comparative data for the main areas of business activity.
Year to 30 September
2007 2006
£m £m
UK qualifications and
assessment services 7.75 6.74
International qualifications 5.55 5.28
Service contracts 2.63 2.11
Internet service provision 0.21 –
Other 0.13 0.05
T otal 16.27 14.18
Market Background
As ever, education is a major social and economic issue
around the world and we work closely with government
departments and agencies concerned with education
provision in all of our main markets.
Over recent months there have been significant political
developments in education policy in the United
Kingdom and particularly England.The Department for
Education and Skills has been wound up and its work is
now divided between new departments for Children,
Schools and Families, and for Innovation, Universities
and Skills. In addition, proposals are being brought
forward for the splitting up of the Qualifications and
Curriculum Authority with the creation of a new
regulatory body to focus on the quality of general
academic and vocational qualifications and the
organisations which provide them.These changes are
significant in that they reflect the government’s priority
in relation to the quality of academic and vocational
education, and the significant investment of public funds
in these areas.
Particularly important in this connection is the increasing
prominence of plans to develop a range of new Diploma
qualifications to cover both vocational and academic
studies and, potentially, replace ‘A’ levels. I am pleased to
say that EDI is one of a small number of organisations
approved by the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority
to award the new Diploma qualifications.
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 4 Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
5
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5
As an organisation primarily concerned with vocational
qualifications and assessments, EDI is well positioned to
benefit from the implementation of the Leitch review of
skills which envisages much closer engagement of
employers in training and qualifications matters. Much
of this work will be co-ordinated through a network
of strengthened Sector Skills Councils, organisations
with which EDI already has close links and working
relationships.
There is also the potential for employers and even
specialist training providers to link up with organisations
such as EDI and develop arrangements for the
accreditation of ‘in-company’ and specialist training
provision which is currently outside of the scope of
government-funded programmes.
We will work closely with the new government
departments, the appropriate agencies, our existing
customers and employers to contribute to and take
advantage of these important developments.
Services
UK Qualifications and Assessment Services
Sales of UK qualifications and assessment services for
the year rose by 15.0% to £7.75m.This includes revenue
from the acquisition of eNVQ which contributed
£185,000 during the second half of the year.
Vocational qualification sales, which account for over
85% of our UK services, grew by 14.6%.This reflects the
impact of our pipeline of new products which is
enabling existing customers to extend the range of
qualifications they source from EDI and the signing-up of
new customers — over 112 during the course of the
year — especially further education colleges.This
growth is also a reflection of the demand for our wide
range of online tests and the level of individual service
and support we provide to our customers.
The acquisition of eNVQ in May represented an
important step forward in our strategy to offer a range
of integrated support services to training providers and
colleges which covers qualifications, training
programmes and contract administration. Over 100
organisations currently use the eNVQ system. Most of
these are training organisations and further education
colleges but a number of corporations and public
authorities are using the system to assist with the
management of ‘in-company’ programmes.
The eNVQ system can make a major contribution to
both the quality and administrative efficiency of training
programmes.As an online system it allows for easy and
flexible communications between learners, employers,
training providers and qualifications’ assessors and their
verifiers. Learners can build up their training portfolio
and receive feedback over the Internet throughout their
programme and not just at formal reviews.We believe
there is good potential to offer eNVQ as part of a
packaged solution for existing customers of our
vocational qualifications services and for eNVQ
customers to either take up or extend their use of EDI
qualifications services.
During the second half of the year we have made good
progress in upgrading our schools’ assessments delivery
platform and introducing a range of new interactive
assessments for the core subject areas of maths, English,
science and ICT at key stages 2 and 3.The development
programme will be completed during the course of
2007/08 but early indications are that the new
assessments are being well received.We have also
developed the business model to simplify the purchasing
decision making process by offering schools the
opportunity to buy assessments for single subject areas,
without the need to commit to the full programme of
assessments.
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 5 6
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5 144
Chief Executive’s Report
Over the past 12 months we have signed up 195 new
schools and the total of active customers now stands at
529, all of whom will be given the opportunity to move
over to the new assessments and pricing structure
during the course of the current academic year.
International Qualifications
Sales of international qualifications for the year rose by
5.1% to £5.55m.The like-for-like increase in sales,
excluding the negative impact of the movement in the
US dollar exchange rate, amounting to £220,000, would
have been 9.3%.The greatest impact of the exchange
rate movement was in Asia where sales value is up by
23.3% on a local currency basis, but only up by 3.9% on
a sterling basis.
Outside of Asia, sales are up by 16.3% and this reflects a
strong performance in the German market this year and
better than expected sales in Zimbabwe, although these
have not reached the levels experienced before the
currency crisis there.We have also made good progress
in a number of the newer European markets as we
continue to focus our attention on more effectively
developing and supporting our agency arrangements in
local markets.
We will continue to review the nature of our agency
arrangements — particularly in the major markets in
Europe and Asia — to ensure that we have appropriate
arrangements in place to strengthen the long-term
operation and development of our business interests.
T o support this, we have recently appointed a senior
manager with extensive experience of international
qualifications delivery gained working in one of the
major international examinations bodies.
On the accreditation front we had good news in
September when we received official notification from
the Universities Clearing and Admissions Service
(UCAS) that our level three book-keeping qualification
had been approved as being the equivalent of a full ‘A’
level with the potential to score the maximum 120
points for university entry purposes.This will be a
particularly important consideration in the Cyprus
market where a number of students aspire to move on
to Higher Education in the UK.
We have continued to develop the Jetset (junior English
tests, senior English tests) range of English language
assessments which we acquired last year.These have
undergone major modernisation to make them more
attractive to users but also to align them to new UK
government standards for English language qualifications
which are overseen by the Qualifications and
Curriculum Authority.
We have also continued to make progress with our
Accredited International Qualifications model.This
enables organisations and training providers to seek
accreditation of training programmes, based on a quality
assurance framework which we have developed, to
provide independent verification of the quality of
programmes.This enables us to then issue certificates to
candidates who complete approved programmes.
Support Services
Sales of support services for the year rose by 24.6% to
£2.63m.This performance reflects strong growth in the
use of the i-assess system which provides our customers
in professional bodies, other awarding bodies and
universities with a secure platform over which to deliver
online their own educational assessments. In total,
430,000 online tests were administered over the
i-assess platform over the past year, 18% up on the same
period last year.At the present time we are engaged in
development activities with existing customers to either
enhance or expand their use of the system and this is
expected to lead to the renewal of a number of long-
term contracts.
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 6 Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
7
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5
We continue to provide back-office administration and
logistic services for a number of organisations and we
are actively pursuing opportunities to provide these
services to other similar organisations. Securing new
business is important because it is inevitable that from
time to time existing customers may review their
outsourcing arrangements and could pursue other
options.
This segment of our business has become well
established.We have a number of high quality, long-term
customers and with the full benefit of our systems
development work now being realised and the close
partnership with our printing and logistics supplier to
call on, we believe there is the potential to make further
progress in this area.
Fusion Media Networks Limited (Fusion)
Fusion is a provider of high quality telecommunications
bandwidth to over 300 customers including a number in
the education and services sector.A 50% shareholding in
the company was secured with the acquisition of eNVQ
Limited in May and, subsequently, we have increased our
shareholding to 75%.
In the four months since the acquisition, Fusion has
generated revenues of £213,000.The founder of the
company, who continues as a full-time employee, has
retained a 25% shareholding.We are investing in the
business which offers good prospects for growth,
including the opportunity for EDI to package Fusion’s
services with its range of qualifications and learner
support services in the UK market.This is particularly
important as a greater proportion of our services are
provided online and there are occasions where our
customers do not derive the full benefit of our services
because their systems are operating with either
inadequate or inconsistent bandwidth.
The eNVQ system is delivered by Fusion and we have
already undertaken a review of EDI’s wider,‘in-house’
connectivity and telecommunications requirements as
we believe ownership of Fusion offers the opportunity
to reduce our existing cost structure for these services.
Organisation Development
The interim report summarised the extensive and far-
reaching organisation development programme which is
now completed.
The physical move to a main site operation in Coventry
was completed over two years ago. Having served
notice at a break clause in the lease of the former LCCI
Examinations Board office in Sidcup in December 2007,
we will hold only one surplus lease in respect of a
second office in Sidcup.The lease on these premises
runs until March 2011 and we are actively marketing the
space. Our balance sheet carries a full provision of
£758,000 in respect of all anticipated future costs in
relation to surplus property.
As reported elsewhere, our Campus administration
system has enabled us to transform our business
processes and deliver much higher levels of service in
respect of turn-around time and accuracy than was
possible with the previous legacy systems.The numbers
of staff required to operate our qualifications
administration has been reduced as we have provided
our UK customers and overseas agents with direct
access to the system enabling them to take control of
and execute the main administrative processes of
registering candidates and either claiming or printing
certificates.
The total cost of this modernisation programme has
been in the order of £1.75m — of which around
£700,000 represented a capital investment — and we
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 7 144
8
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5
are now benefiting from annual cost savings and
efficiency gains valued at around £500,000 per annum.
Staff
Staff numbers have increased by nine during the course
of the year reflecting the planned appointment of
additional people to strengthen our product
development capabilities and small increases in
operations and general administration staff.
Our planned appointment of additional field sales staff is
running a little behind schedule and, as a result, numbers
of staff in this area have remained static. However,
additional appointments have been made since the year
end and we have budgeted for the appointment of
further staff in this important area as we focus on
revenue growth for the year ahead.
Staff Levels at 30 September
2007 2006
Operations 58 56
Education Development 26 21
Business Development 43 43
Finance and Administration 24 22
T otal 151 142
The number of staff employed by Educational Resources
— included above — in its network of offices around
South East Asia has increased by 2 to 28.
The integration of the eNVQ operation was
straightforward, involving only the appointment of one
of the founders as a permanent member of staff.The
Fusion office is based in Southend-on-Sea and five staff
are employed in the business and are based at this
office.
T o give staff an opportunity to participate more fully in
the Company we launched a new round of our share
save scheme in June 2007.This will run for three years
and a total of 606,000 options have been taken up by
34 staff.
Associates
A priority during the second half of the year — and into
2007/08 — is strengthening the management and
support arrangements for the network of over 250
associates who work with us.These are individuals who
act as examiners, verifiers for vocational qualifications
and trainers for users of our schools’ assessment
service. Our aim is for all associates to feel fully engaged
and active advocates for EDI.
Quality Assurance
As our organisation matures and develops, the
management team believe it is essential to underpin our
extensive work on organisation and systems
development with recognised, independent accreditation
of the quality of our business processes.
We are already making good progress towards achieving
ISO 9001/2000 accreditation and have set a target date
for this of March 2008.A quality manual and detailed
work instructions have been produced by the
management team and staff, and 14 people have been
trained as internal auditors to support the internal
review process.As a significant proportion of our
business is concerned with software development and
online delivery of services, we also plan to adopt
ISO/IEC20000 which provides accreditation for IT
management and development work.
The Board and senior management team have also
committed to achieving Investor in People status and as
part of this process we are working with an
independent consultant to overhaul all aspects of our
HR administration and staff training and development
arrangements.
Chief Executive’s Report
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 8 Education Development International plc
Annual Report and Accounts
9
14426 22/11/2007 Proof 5
All of these initiatives are designed to improve our
levels of customer service and responsiveness by
empowering our staff and associates to fully contribute
to optimising all aspects of our business operation.
Looking Ahead
During the year ahead we look forward to building on
the considerable progress which EDI has made during
2006/07.
We have created strong foundations for our
organisation and we believe that we are now positioned
for a period of sustained growth as we exploit our
increasingly prominent position in the marketplace.We
will also benefit from the launch of new products
developed in-house and new services which we are able
to offer through the acquisitions we have made over the
past two years.
Our particular focus will be on promoting EDI more
effectively to raise the profile of the organisation and
achieve higher levels of recognition in the market as a
basis for supporting targeted sales campaigns.T o
support us in this important work, we have appointed a
marketing and communications agency with significant
experience in the education and IT sectors.
We continue to extend and develop our product range,
and we are actively involved in working with the
Qualifications and Curriculum Authority and National
Assessment Authority on a number of important pilot
projects, including work to develop the new Diplomas
and their delivery system.We believe we are well placed
to respond to the opportunities that are being
presented by the significant developments which will be
taking place in the UK’s qualifications framework over
the next decade.
T o support organic growth, we will continue to look for
appropriate acquisition opportunities in the UK and
abroad. In particular, we will seek to expand our
involvement in qualifications awarding, secure greater
capability in the area of learning support materials and
broaden the range of our specialist administration
systems. Our announcement on 19 November 2007
that we have acquired ASET Group Limited is a direct
result of this policy and will significantly strengthen our
position in the UK vocational qualifications market.
Finally, we will take the opportunity over the next
12 months to fine-tune our operating systems and
procedures, and provide increased levels of direct user
support for our customers.This will ensure they are
able to maximise the benefits offered by our highly
automated online assessment and administration
services.
EDI is now set for the next phase of the organisation’s
development.We have the products, systems, staff and
energy to make further advances in the specialist
education qualifications and assessment services market,
both at home and abroad. Our aim over the next three
years is to become recognised as the UK’s leading
provider of innovative, high quality assessment and
learner support services.
Nigel Snook
Chief Executive
22 November 2007
14426EDIPLC:EDI AR07  22/11/07  15:03  Page 9
