    Chief Executive’s Review
eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
4
Business Review
The Company has made a number of significant
developments during the period under review. Our
objectives were to reduce costs, to expand into new
international markets and to build our repeatable
revenues. At the same time, we needed to continue to
enhance our software to meet customer requirements
across the globe. 
We are pleased to update shareholders on the following:
Cost Reduction
Our primary focus during the year was to reduce our cost
base. The main area of spend in eg is people and the
required reduction in headcount needed to be achieved
with sensitivity. The cost reduction work was completed
in the first half of the year with the actual cost reductions
beginning to take effect from June 2007 onwards. In
total, cost reductions of £900,000 on an annualised basis
have been achieved, bringing our UK cost base below
pre-flotation levels. Although the outturn for the full year
was still an operating loss, the loss in the second half of
the year was £215,000 compared to £682,000 in the first
half. In total, an operating loss of £897,000 was
generated including £392,000 in one-off costs associated
with the redundancies, setting up in new markets and the
additional cost of an interim Finance Director required in
the first half of the year.
Gross Margin for the year was 65.3% and, although this
is below the level achieved in the previous financial year
(72.9%), it is in line with our target and well ahead of
the sector average. 
Expansion into New Markets
At the same time as reducing our costs, we have
continued to focus on developing new international
markets in order to reduce revenue concentration on UK
financial services. In 2007 we secured clients in three of
our five target international markets. Sales revenues of
three times the original expectations for eg’s first year of
international business have been achieved.
We are pleased with the success of our implementation
projects within South Africa, India and the Netherlands
which clearly demonstrate the applicability of our
solutions in the global marketplace. Our international
business has also given us the opportunity to
demonstrate the successful application of a Software as a
Service (“SaaS”) licence model based on the hosted
solution launched earlier in the year.
The continued expansion into these overseas markets will
remain a key strategy for the foreseeable future in order
to mitigate the risks of over concentration on UK
markets. 
UK Business Development
In December 2007 we were delighted to secure a
significant piece of new business with a major UK Life &
Pensions Company within our core UK market.
We are providing this client with the new and improved
version of eg operational intelligence® software,
which was launched in April 2007, together with the eg
principles of operational management®. This
contract win was an important development as it
demonstrates our continued focus and commitment to
our very important home market, whilst we also
concentrate on international expansion.
eg continues to enjoy high levels of repeat business from
existing clients and, as a result of this and other work
undertaken throughout the 2007 financial year, we have
begun to reduce our exposure to ‘lumpiness’ in our
revenues.  eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
5
www.eguk.co.uk
We have also significantly reduced any dependency on
single clients/projects and worked hard to secure more
long-term contractual income, with a particular shift
towards securing three to five year licensing agreements.
Together with a high proportion of repeat revenues, these
actions reduce our exposure to more unpredictable new
business wins. 
Product Development
£0.7m of research and development costs have been
capitalised during the course of the financial year 
under IFRS.
The financial year marked a significant milestone in our
product offering to clients when, in April 2007, we
launched new and improved versions of our eg
operational intelligence® software suite, incorporating
eg work manager®.
The benefits of these new versions are extensive and
include improved functionality covering end-to-end
process and milestone measurement, customer
experience management (encompassing new service and
quality metrics), as well as management across multiple
time zones and an overall improved ‘look and feel’ for
both users and managers. As a result eg now has the
only operational intelligence tool that provides historic,
real-time and predictive management information at
multiple levels, both within and between businesses,
whilst at the same time enabling reporting by customer,
channel and process. 
Our Research and Development team in South Africa has
completed the development of eg activity manager™, a
new module of our software that enables our clients to
track actual processing time in comparison with target
processing time on an ongoing basis. 
“In 2007 we secured clients in three of our five
target international markets . . . We are pleased with
the success of our implementation projects within
South Africa, India and the Netherlands which
clearly demonstrate the applicability of our solutions
in the global marketplace.”    Chief Executive’s Review continued
eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
6
Given the increased pressure for businesses to deliver
improved customer service at the lowest possible cost,
eg’s leading edge operational intelligence together with
training and implementation services that enable
companies to achieve guaranteed and sustainable
improvements resonate well with these requirements. 
During the year, the new and improved versions of our
software have been adopted by over 5,000 users, across
seven companies, bringing our total worldwide users to
over 40,000.
Current Trading
Our clients, across many different markets both in the UK
and abroad, continue to confirm that our software,
implementation and training services generate the
dramatic improvements that we promise. The three new
contract wins that we secured within the first trading
month of the 2008 financial year are clear evidence of
the continued interest in our solutions from a number of
sectors within the UK.
Firstly, Nationwide Building Society has commissioned a
further implementation in the Specialist Lending Division
in Bournemouth. This follows the recent upgrade to the
new versions of the eg operational intelligence®
software suite that took place between November 2007
and January 2008. In this new project Nationwide will
use eg’s software to migrate UCB Homeloans into the
Bournemouth operations centre.
At Co-operative Financial Services, the Group has
secured a major software services project to embed the
eg operational intelligence® software suite into an
integrated solution that will automate the processing of
inbound and outbound correspondence. The full solution
will be developed in partnership with three other
companies: Xerox, Communisis and Exstream. eg will
provide the operations management components of the
solution including work and process management, and
the automatic production of historic, real-time and
predictive MI.
Finally, a further new implementation will take place in
the Travel and Tour Operator Payments teams of the Co-
operative Travel Group. eg’s software was already
installed in the Financial Shared Services teams of The
Co-operative Group before the retailer merged with
United Co-operative last year. This new implementation
will take place in the Travel and Tour Operator Payments
division of the merged Group. The new version of the eg
operational intelligence® software suite will be
implemented, demonstrating another application of the
enhanced functionality of the software outside financial
services.
We are pleased that during the year we have secured our
first long-term licence agreement. It is an objective of
the Company to secure a higher proportion of renewable
income and whilst eg has significant annual revenue
generated from maintenance contracts we wish to
increase this guaranteed revenue stream through the
addition of long-term renewable licence contracts. To this
end we have signed a contract with a customer for a
minimum of £330k of licence revenue to be spread over
the next three years, with the potential for significant
uplift as licence numbers increase. 
These new contract wins clearly demonstrate that the
Company is becoming increasingly better placed to take
advantage of the opportunities provided by different
sectors and the requirements of global operational
management in general.  eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
7
www.eguk.co.uk
Future Outlook
Although we have achieved many of our turnaround
objectives, we still have work to do on our strategy to
further improve sustainability. At the same time the
market environment has become extremely
unpredictable. We therefore remain cautious in our
outlook for 2008.
However, we are pleased that our order book for the
forthcoming year is already £3m, 50% higher than at the
same point in the 2007 financial year. The sales pipeline
is healthy and, on this basis, we will continue to
demonstrate continued recovery during 2008.
Shareholders should be aware that during the recession
of 2001 to 2003 eg outperformed the rest of the software
industry by consistently growing in both revenue and
profit during this difficult period. 
This positive historical performance demonstrates the
continued demand for our products during downturns in
the IT market in general and our reduced vulnerability to
falls in IT spending amongst our clients.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and senior management
team were all in place during the last market downturn
and, together with the cost reductions we have made, we
believe that we are well placed to repeat our 2001 to
2003 performance in terms of growth and value for
shareholders.
“Contract wins that we secured within the first trading
month of the 2008 financial year are clear evidence of the
continued interest of our solutions from a number of sectors
within the UK.”
   Chief Executive’s Review continued    Chief Executive’s Review continued
eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
8
Financial Review
Overview
In the year ended 31 January 2008 turnover was
£4.12m, a reduction of £1.35m (2007: £5.47m).
Operating losses increased from a loss of £0.15m in 2007
to produce a loss of £0.90m. 
International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRS”)
The Group has produced its financial statements under
IFRS. Comparison values shown in the operational and
Business Review and the Directors’ Report are based on
prior year IFRS. An extract of the result for 2006–07
under UK GAAP and IFRS is produced on pages 48 to 52.
Revenue Analysis
The Group produced a disappointing first half result with
revenues of £2.07m, 39.7% down on 2006 (£3.43m).
Revenue earned in the second half of the year was
£2.05m compared with £2.04m in the same period for
the prior year.
The Group segments its operations on the basis of
‘geographical segmentation of operations’. The Group has
determined that this is the most appropriate segmental
split to reflect the nature of the Group’s operations. The
Group has two distinct companies operating in different
geographical areas with different economic and political
conditions and a different maturity of client and client
requirements.
The Group has a subsidiary undertaking in South Africa.
Revenue generated from South African operations
totalled £0.35m, of which 63.2% was generated in the
second half of the year.
The Group operating loss of £0.90m includes a charge of
£0.65m for development expenditure. The Group
operating loss in 2007 was £0.15m, after charging
development expenditure of £0.55m. The Group’s cash
balances reduced during the year; however, interest
earned was £0.08m.
Loss Before Taxation
The loss before taxation was £0.82m (2007: loss
£41,000). 
Taxation
The Group has benefited from the favourable tax relief
given on development expenditure which results in a
higher tax credit. The effective rate of taxation credit is
20% (2007: Effective rate of tax credit 114%).
Earnings Per Share
Loss per share on a basic and fully diluted basis were
(5.0p) and (5.0p) respectively. In the prior year the 
basic earnings per share was 0.0p and on a fully diluted
basis 0.0p.
Dividend
There were no dividends paid during the year. The
Directors do not recommend a final dividend. 
Research and Development & Capital Expenditure
The Group spent £1.24m on direct staff costs for
research and development, of which £0.59m was
capitalised. An additional £0.13m, in relation to
associated overheads, was also capitalised. In 2007 the
Group expended £0.81m on direct staff costs developing
its software product, of which £0.26m was capitalised. An
additional £0.03m, in relation to associated overheads,
was also capitalised. The majority of the expenditure
relates to the development of new and enhanced
software offerings. 
At interim results the value of capitalised development
was based solely on the value of directly attributable
staffing costs. As part of the year end process the
capitalisation has been extended to incorporate an
appropriate amount of indirect overheads. This additional
allocation was performed following a full review of
development costs in line with audit recommended best
practice. This allocation adjustment has affected the
periods 31 January 2006 and 31 January 2007 and is
reflected within the IFRS comparisons for prior years. eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
9
www.eguk.co.uk
Cash Flow
The Group is debt free and at 31 January had interest
earning cash balances of £0.88m (2007: £2.43m). Cash
outflow in the year from operating activities was £0.85m
(2007: inflow £0.87m) resulting principally from reduced
turnover creating a net cash outflow from operations. 
Going Concern
Based on normal business planning and control
procedures, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2008
“eg continues to enjoy high levels of repeat business
from existing clients . . . we have also significantly
reduced any dependency on single clients/projects
and worked hard to secure more long-term
contractual income.”
   Chief Executive’s Review continued
