    Chairman’s Statement
eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
2
Introduction
As previously stated in our last Annual Report, during
2007 we intended to concentrate on reducing costs and
strengthening the fundamentals of our business in order
to return to profitable growth. We did not expect to
achieve this overnight and, whilst our financial
performance has been disappointing, our core objectives
have remained on track. There are clear signs of recovery
across the Group. 
We have also given particular attention to business
development within new markets and have made further
investment in our core products in order to meet our
customers’ requirements of improving operational
effectiveness in a global marketplace.
The work we have done will enable us to secure more
stable and sustainable growth in the future. With the
launch of new and improved versions of our software we
have also enjoyed some success in securing a number of
new contracts during the period. It is pleasing to note
that this new business also reflects our progress in
developing international markets. 
Financial Review
Financial performance for the full year ended 31 January
2008 was below expectations, but improvements in
profitability across the Group during the second half of
the year are clearly visible.
The financial year was one of operational transition and
margin recovery. We have undertaken initiatives to
reduce costs, whilst ensuring that overheads remain
under strict control. As a result costs are now below pre-
flotation levels. 
Although these measures resulted in the Company
returning to profit in the closing months of the financial
year, revenues from the majority of sales closed in the
same period were not recognisable until after the
financial year end. Therefore, these sales will contribute
towards revenues in the current financial year ending 
31 January 2009.
Revenue in the period was maintained at the same level
as the previous two half year periods at £4.1m for the
year (down by £1.3m on the previous year). The Loss
before Tax was £815,000 including one-off investment
costs of £392,000 (2007: £41,000). The retained loss for
the financial year was £656,000 (2007: Profit £6,000).
Loss per share was 5.0 pence per share (2007: 0.0 pence
per share).
Cash balance was £0.88m (2007: cash £2.43m).
Gross margin was 65.3%, which is in line with our target
and better than the average for the software sector.
“. . . during 2007 we intended to concentrate on
reducing costs and strengthening the fundamentals
of our business in order to return to profitable
growth . . . there are clear signs of recovery across
the Group . . . the full recovery of the business
requires 18 to 24 months to complete, and we are
reasonably satisfied with progress made to date.” eg solutions plc 
annual report and accounts 2008  
3
www.eguk.co.uk
Dividend
The Board will not be declaring a dividend at the full
year stage.
People
During the financial year we were very pleased to
announce the appointment of Paul Bird as Finance
Director and Company Secretary with effect from
3 September 2007. It was very unfortunate to have to
report Paul Bird’s decision to resign from the Board of
eg in order to allow him to assume another position
elsewhere. The Board is fully aware that another
personnel change at such a senior level within the
Company is far from ideal.
Therefore, we were delighted to announce the recent
appointment of Violetta Parylo as Finance Director and
Company Secretary with effect from Monday 19 May
2008. Violetta brings 14 years’ experience in delivering
strategic, financial and business value to the Company
having held a number of senior finance positions within
both UK and international companies. Paul will remain
with the Company until the end of his contracted notice
period in order to execute an efficient ‘hand-over’ to
his successor.
In November 2007 we also announced the resignation of
Jonathan Pyke as Non-executive Director. Jonathan, who
had been with eg since our flotation on AIM in 2005,
resigned to pursue a full-time position with another
company. He was a valued member of the Board and we
extend our very best wishes to him for the future.
We fully acknowledge the important role that Non-
executive Directors have to play in the future growth and
development of eg and, therefore, we are actively
seeking a suitable candidate that will add value to the
Company going forward. Shareholders will be updated on
any appointment in due course.
Across the Company our offices are well managed and
driven by a long-serving team of people at operational
level, all of whom remain fully committed to the overall
success of eg. On behalf of the Board and shareholders, 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our
staff who have continued to work hard during what has
been an arduous year for the Company.
Overview
Although 2007 was a tough year, eg continues to be a
vibrant and dynamic organisation that is firmly focused
on implementing key objectives to return the business to
its previous levels of revenue growth and profitability. 
As we have indicated in previous announcements to
shareholders, the full recovery of the business requires
18 to 24 months to complete, and we are reasonably
satisfied with progress made to date.
As a Company, we fully recognise the importance of
nurturing appropriate new business opportunities both
within the UK and overseas and will continue to develop
this strategy for the foreseeable future.
Finally, and on an extremely positive note, the Company
celebrated its 20th birthday just before the financial year
end in January 2008. This was a significant milestone
that clearly reflects the longevity of the business and the
high levels of customer satisfaction with which we have
become synonymous.
Rodney Baker-Bates
Non-executive Chairman
18 March 2008
