 9 eg solutions plc www.eguk.co.uk
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
20218.04  27/04/2011 Proof 7
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Introduction
The increasing momentum in eg’s financial performance over 
the past year reflects strong underlying demand for our 
products and services, together with our focus on developing 
and delivering back office optimisation solutions that deliver 
tangible cost savings for our customers. This has enabled us 
to grow revenues from existing users as well as expand our 
customer base both organically and through the acquisition of 
XTAQ Limited. 
eg’s financial performance follows management’s decision 
three years ago to restructure the fundamentals of the 
business. This involved focusing on building recurring and 
repeatable revenues, changing the implementation model to 
enable clients to do more of the implementation work 
themselves, reducing direct and overhead costs and investing 
in product development. Our success in selling eg’s products 
and services more widely and deeply to existing customers has 
also enabled us to deliver strong recurring and repeatable 
revenues and the product development undertaken has 
ensured that the Company’s technology platform is both 
robust and scalable as well as compatible with the ‘cloud’ and 
other technologies used in enterprise management systems. 
The Nuqleus product set, acquired with XTAQ, provides 
real-time data capture capability that reduces manual data 
entry routines. For our customers this provides an alternative 
integration mechanism with incumbent IT platforms without 
diverting their IT resources from other priorities. We are also 
addressing the growing demand from organisations seeking to 
combine the provision of real-time and historic management 
information from the back office with more advanced 
forecasting and planning capabilities usually found in the front 
office. This is achieved using our own products as well as by 
exporting data into the solutions either of other vendors or 
developed by our customers. 
Internationally, the growth and profitability achieved in South 
Africa was encouraging and validates the Company’s decision 
to invest in that market. Following this success, and with 
opportunities identified with a number of customers and other 
business partners, we are planning to expand selectively into 
other new territories. 
During the year, we have continued to maintain tight cost 
control and achieved annual savings of approximately 
£165,000 following the acquisition of XTAQ Limited.
Business development and operations
Market development
The growth potential of the back office optimisation market is 
increasingly being recognised. DMG Consulting estimated in its 
2010 Workforce Management Market Report, that the back office 
market has the potential to become at least three to seven times 
the size of the contact centre segment of the workforce 
management market. Other analysts have also forecast that 
demand for new types of software that continuously monitor and 
analyse people and process could have a value of approximately 
$3.5 billion over the next few years.
For eg this will mean new sales opportunities as workforce 
management vendors increase their marketing of ‘back office’ 
solutions. We are well placed to capitalise on the significant 
growth in market demand we expect over the next few years. 
The range of eg’s products and services addresses all of the 
key aspects of back office optimisation requirements, including 
resource forecasting and planning, end-to-end as well as 
intra-day and intra-process work allocation and tracking, and 
operational management and reporting, all in real-time.
Growing industry recognition of eg as the provider of the most 
comprehensive back office optimisation software functionality will 
be a significant factor in our future success and it is encouraging, 
as we move forward, that we have strong endorsement of our 
products through our growing customer base.
Customer base growth
During the past year the total number of eg customers 
increased from 29 to 42. The expansion of our customer base 
reflects the growing recognition of eg’s leading position in the 
back office optimisation market, our strong long-term 
customer relationships, the measurable value added by our 
products and services and the benefits of the Company’s 
technology and product development programme.
 “Internationally, the growth 
and profitability achieved in 
South Africa was encouraging 
and validates the Company’s 
decision to invest in that 
market.”
Elizabeth Gooch,
Chief Executive Officer
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer Annual Report & Accounts 2011 www.eguk.co.uk 10 Our Business
20218.04  27/04/2011 Proof 7
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
New projects undertaken during the year included 
implementations of Nuqleus in the UK for Aviva, Bradford & 
Bingley and Citibank, with a further contract signed at the end 
of the year with Produban UK, part of the Santander group. 
Other projects included the roll-out of eg work manager
®
 for 
Vital, a Norwegian life and pensions insurance company, and 
services relating to the implementation of licences bought by 
Nationwide and a major UK life and pensions company in 
2009/10. Wins in South Africa included implementations for 
one of South Africa’s largest healthcare Administrators is in the 
open and closed medical scheme markets, Silica (an 
outsourcing company) and a pilot implementation for 
Alexander Forbes (provider of financial and risk services).
During 2010 eg’s Professional Services team undertook over 
20 fee earning projects for existing customers looking to 
leverage their investments in our products. Significantly a 
number of these projects involved customers migrating their 
systems onto new virtualised server platforms and we believe 
such projects will be a trend through 2011. Custom reporting 
projects were also significant as customers looked to publish 
increasingly sophisticated operational management 
information across their enterprises. Significant projects 
included;  
  A First Contact Resolution Reporting project for a major 
outsourcer
  A Virtual Server Migration project for a major building 
society
  Development of a real-time Customer Experience 
Management enquiry tool for the call centre of a major 
outsource provider 
  A Field Sales New Business reporting project for a major UK 
insurer, and 
  A major platform migration project for a customer 
centralising and virtualising their eg servers.
Underpinning our growth is a high level of repeat business, 
with approximately 60% of revenues last year coming from 
existing customers who provide strong endorsement of eg’s 
products and services. Customer service remains a key priority 
for eg and in a recent survey, 100% of eg’s customers said 
that they would recommend the Company to others, the 
majority because of the results achieved. Also in the bi-annual 
customer satisfaction survey of our Helpdesk and Software 
Support service, covering 41,000 software users, the Company 
scored an average of 8.4 out of 10 for the quality of service 
provided.
Technology and product development
During the year the Company continued to enhance and 
develop both its technology platform and its products to 
improve performance, add functionality and enable delivery 
across any enterprise system. 
Key product developments included:
  Completion of eg work manager
®
 v6.0, a ‘thin client’ web 
browser version of eg’s core eg work manager
®
 product, 
built using the latest Microsoft Silverlight and Windows 
Communication Foundation technologies. This latest product 
has been designed to enable customers to deploy and 
extend the use of eg work manager
®
 more easily, 
providing a lower total cost of ownership for deployments ‘on 
premise’ or ‘on the cloud’. The product has been designed to 
work with the existing eg work manager
®
 database, 
enabling both new and existing customers to use the new 
version without the need for existing product upgrades; 
 Enhancement to the eg integration framework™, an 
open, standards based Software Development Kit (SDK) 
designed to simplify and shorten integration project 
timescales;
  Enhancement to Nuqleus to enable integration with Verint
®
 
Impact 360
®
 Recording™ system for call centres and for 
compatibility with zero footprint Citrix environments;
  Further releases of eg operational intelligence
®
 and  
eg operational intelligence
®
 data views; 
  The release of a new product, eg operational 
intelligence
®
 data views for BusinessObjects enabling 
customers with SAP BusinessObjects business intelligence 
platforms to interrogate eg’s operational data via a 
BusinessObjects universe; and
  Certification of eg work manager
®
 and eg operational 
intelligence
®
 for Microsoft Server 2008 and SQL Server 
2008 platforms. 
Acquisition
The integration of the operations and products of XTAQ, 
acquired in March 2010, was completed as planned along with 
approximately £165,000 of cost savings achieved by 
centralising operations at eg’s office and streamlining the 
XTAQ business.
“We are well placed to 
capitalise on the significant 
growth in market demand we 
expect over the next few years. 
The range of eg’s products and 
services address all of the key 
aspects of back office 
optimisation requirements”
 “A significant focus for  
the UK business in 2010 was 
converting XTAQ’s pipeline . . . 
Orders for Nuqleus won during 
the year had a total value of 
approximately £1.1 million” 11 eg solutions plc www.eguk.co.uk
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
20218.04  27/04/2011 Proof 7
The addition of the Nuqleus software into the eg product set 
extends our ability to meet the back office optimisation 
requirements of our customers. Nuqleus is the logical entry 
product for customers who want to begin the measurement, 
management and improvement stages to transform their 
operational performance.
Against this background, a significant focus for the UK 
business in 2010 was converting XTAQ’s pipeline and 
implementing the projects concerned. Orders for Nuqleus won 
during the year had a total value of approximately £1.1 
million. The first project, with Aviva, moved to further roll-outs 
having successfully completed the pilot stage prior to 
acquisition. Other wins include contracts from Citibank and 
Bradford & Bingley, with a contract with Produban UK, part of 
the Santander group being closed at the end of the year.
The final consideration for XTAQ was £175,893 comprising 
£33,333 in cash and £142,560 in 5% Convertible Unsecured 
Loan Notes 2012, convertible at 82.5 pence per share. Since 
completion, options for 1.13 million eg shares, with a 4-year 
vesting period and an exercise price of 55 pence, have been 
awarded to key XTAQ employees on achievement of agreed 
sales targets. 
Industry recognition
In July eg achieved ICT certification from Accredit UK in 
recognition of the high standard of our software product 
design and development. In September eg won the 
International Trade & Export category of the inaugural 
Birmingham Post Business Awards 2010.
People
eg is fortunate in being able to attract and retain good quality 
people and the Company is committed to providing training 
and career development programmes to enable this to 
continue.
At the end of 2010, 72% of eg employees had been with the 
Company for 5 years or more with the Staff Satisfaction 
Survey for 2010 showing an overall satisfaction score of 8.3 
out of 10. 
The Board would like to thank everyone at eg for their efforts 
during the past year. 
Future priorities
eg has demonstrated through the momentum achieved over 
the past year, that it has the management, products and 
scalable business model to capitalise on the substantial 
opportunities available in the emerging back office 
optimisation software market. 
Following the successful integration of XTAQ and, with 
customer demand continuing to be strong, the Company will 
continue to grow its order pipeline in both the UK and 
overseas.
24 March 2011
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer
3 May 2011
