 Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
09 Stock code: EGS
21314-04    20/04/2012    Proof 5
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer
Overview
Our two greatest achievements in the last year have been the 
five new customer wins in the UK and overseas and the 
successful re-engineering of our back office optimisation 
software suite. 
eg is the only company to have developed a purpose-built 
back office optimisation product capable of delivering desktop 
data capture, combined with real-time work management and 
standardised & bespoke reporting and analytics. Our 
functionality now includes forecasting, planning, intra-day and 
intra-process work allocation, tracking and management, 
together with real-time management information and 
dashboards. The development of our back office forecasting 
product this year, that can forecast at process and task level 
across multi-stage processes, has significantly boosted eg’s 
leading market position.
The re-engineering of our software suite involved replacing a 
third party component within the N3D data capture software 
and integrating this into eg work manager
®
. This re-
engineering was expected to have minimal impact on the 
outcome for the year ended 31 January 2012. Therefore, it 
was disappointing that, through the failure of the third party 
component and the need to undertake pilot projects with the 
new product suite in order to win new contracts and then 
finalise client commitment to their roll-out, revenue and profit 
for last year was lower than expected.
The new software platform has been very well received by 
both new and existing enterprise clients in the UK and 
overseas. We are now experiencing strong demand and our 
sales pipeline is growing rapidly.
We have also continued to maintain tight control over costs 
which reduced by £0.23 million on the prior year including 
£0.17 million as the result of a reorganisation of the sales and 
delivery teams. 
Business development and operations
Market development
The emerging back office optimisation software market 
continues to develop as financial institutions seek to improve 
operational control and minimise back office costs. This trend 
was confirmed in May 2011 by Donna Fluss, founder and 
President of DMG Consulting and recognised thought leader in 
the workforce optimisation market, at a showcase of the 
Company’s new eg operational intelligence
®
 software 
suite. DMG Consulting expects that the back office 
optimisation market will be 3 to 7 times the size of the contact 
centre workforce optimisation market and could have a value 
of at least $3 billion over the next few years. Other analysts 
are also forecasting that demand for new software which 
continuously monitors and analyses people and processes will 
grow significantly. 
This market opportunity is leading to the entry of new 
competition with most workforce optimisation vendors 
claiming to be able to address back office requirements in 
some way. At the same time, the back office is becoming 
increasingly complex with a greater variety of work sources 
including white mail, e-mail, image, SMS and calls as well as 
from core processing systems. The back office is under ever 
growing pressure to improve performance leading to an 
increasing need to understand, control and improve 
operational activity and reduce costs. 
Customer base growth
Following the successful re-engineering of our software 
platform, demand from new and existing customers has been 
encouraging. 
In the first half, work focussed on implementing major 
contracts won at the end of our last financial year in both the 
UK and South Africa.
In July 2011 a new contract, worth approximately £660,000, 
was won from an existing customer in South Africa (a leading 
investment administration company which provides 
outsourced healthcare services) to roll-out further users of the 
eg operational intelligence
®
 software suite. This 
implementation progressed according to plan and a further 
licence purchase was one of the five orders won at the year 
end. They continue with their enterprise roll-out. 
“Our two greatest achievements 
in the last year have been the 
five new customer wins in the 
UK and overseas and the 
successful re-engineering of  
our back office optimisation 
software suite.” eg solutions plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
21314-04    20/04/2012    Proof 5
“In March 2012, we won the most 
significant contract in eg’s history, 
from a leading global financial  
services company.”
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
In the closing days of the last financial year, we won five 
orders, including three from new UK and international 
customers in the financial services sector and two with 
existing UK and international customers, as follows: 
• a pilot project for the parent bank of an existing life and 
pensions client in Europe;
• a hosted software deployment and services implementation 
for a UK-based business process outsourcer;
• a pilot project for an investment bank;
• the further licence purchase for an existing South African 
client; and
• an extension of services for an existing UK client. 
In March 2012, we won the most significant contract in eg’s 
history, from a leading global financial services company, for 
eg operational intelligence
®
 and implementation services. 
Initially, the contract covers 3,250 users in Europe and India 
as part of the customer’s drive towards cost efficiencies within 
its Consumer and Corporate Banking divisions. Completion of 
the initial project is expected by August 2012 with revenue 
being recognised in the current financial year. The customer 
has also appointed eg as its preferred supplier of back office 
optimisation software and entered into a global master 
agreement for deployment, subject to successful completion 
of the initial contract, of a minimum of 30,000 software 
licences across the enterprise. 
The recently won contracts have significant potential for 
further roll-out as well as scope for recurring revenues.
Technology and product development
The objectives of the successful re-engineering of our product 
suite were fourfold:
• to integrate eg’s products with N3D and replace the third 
party component to provide real-time data capture 
functionality that can be deployed as a standard product;
• to develop strategic planning and forecasting functionality 
to enable us to meet the expectations and demands of our 
clients;
• to develop products capable of rapid, enterprise-wide 
deployment whilst also allowing for phased deployment to 
enable customers to achieve early workforce optimisation 
benefits before deploying full functionality; and
• to incorporate multi-channel transaction capture and 
enable rapid integration with in-house systems. This 
ensures complete data integrity by eliminating the manual 
keying often associated with back office workforce 
management solutions.
Following completion of this re-engineering programme, eg 
now offers the industry’s most complete, purpose-built back 
office optimisation solutions covering:
• Strategic planning and forecasting (eg forecasting™);
• Real-time work management (eg work manager
®
) 
incorporating multi-channel transaction capture using a 
variety of integration services, import and data capture 
solutions 
• Reporting and analytics (eg operational intelligence
®
)
These developments have strengthened eg’s leading 
competitive position and have resulted in major new orders 
and further pilot projects from new and existing customers.
People
Our success in meeting the challenges of the past year and 
positioning eg to optimise the emerging back office 
optimisation market has relied on the high quality, skill and 
hard work of our people and I would like to thank them for 
their contribution to the progress we have made and their 
continuing commitment. 
Prospects
Our objective is to capitalise on the investment we have made 
in our products, and seize the opportunities being created by 
the emerging back office optimisation market, to achieve 
strong, profitable growth.
eg’s market position and opportunity have never been better 
and we are both excited and confident about our future 
prospects. 
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer
20 April 2012
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
11 Stock code: EGS
21314-04    20/04/2012    Proof 5
Board of Directors 12
Directors, Advisers and Officers 13
Corporate Social Responsibility 14
Directors’ Report 16
Directors’ Responsibilities in the Preparation 
of the Financial Statements 19
Independent Auditor's Report 
to the members of eg solutions plc 20
Our Governance
Our Accounts Our Business Our Governance
