 8 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review
Chief Executive’s statement
O
ur 2008 financial results reflect a year in which we took decisive action and transformed our
business.
Business Review
On 29 February 2008 we announced a restructuring plan and concluded that our focus should be
on cornerstone franchises in order to optimise returns on these titles. The key aspects of the new
business plan are as follows:
Fundamental change in business structure
The Group’s business structure has changed from a centrally controlled development and publishing
model to one that is studio-led, focused on building appropriate studio infrastructure around the
Group’s cornerstone franchises, such as Tomb Raider, Hitman, Championship Manager and Deus Ex.
The Group’s studios are now responsible for the development of games from initial design through
production and branding to product marketing, working in conjunction with sales, channel marketing
and distribution expertise. 
We have a dedicated team responsible for our other titles and third-party products, including
casual games. Titles currently in production include: Just Cause 2, Battlestations: Pacific, Pony
Friends 2 and Batman: Arkham Asylum.
Product improvement initiatives
The decision to shift the Group’s business structure to a studio-led model has enabled it to form
focused teams around its key products with the aim of not only producing high quality games, but
high-impact, focused and coordinated marketing campaigns. The marketing of our core products is
beginning further out from the product launch date in order to generate the right level of consumer
awareness, build anticipation, establish and work with relevant online communities and deliver a
strategic marketing campaign which can gather momentum towards the product launch. 
Over the past six months the Group has cancelled a number of projects that the Board
considered either loss-making, unlikely to generate acceptable returns on investment or not of
appropriate quality. We have also introduced a new, tougher ‘green-light’ process to monitor product
quality of all future projects.
Cost reduction plan
A leaner operating structure is now in place with a 25% lower headcount level to deliver the targeted
reduction in operating costs of £14 million in the new financial year.
We raised £60 million (before expenses) by way of a successful Placing and Open Offer of new
shares to provide working capital and we have made fundamental and beneficial changes to our
business in order to take advantage of the continued growth in the games industry.
Phil Rogers
Our commitment to improving quality across the
business and securing strategic partnerships will
be the key to unlock our full potential. SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
Working with the best: A rich portfolio of
established franchises and the creative
talent in place to deliver new innovative,
wholly-owned videogame franchises.
Battlestations: Pacific offers
players over 28 story missions,
doubling the size of Battlestations:
Midway, and 21 new units
including kamikaze and other
WWII planes and units. A brand
new cockpit view has been
introduced into the game plus the
tactical landing of troops in battle. 10 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Working together: A new studio-led
business model designed to build
focused cross-discipline teams around
cornerstone franchises, working closely
with channel and distribution expertise
to drive product positioning and sales.
The strength of the Group’s IP
was demonstrated by the release
of the first Hitman movie from
20th Century Fox in November
2007, which grossed $96.5 million
at the worldwide box office
according to Screen International. SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11
Business Review
Chief Executive’s statement continued
A ‘New’ Company
We are more than six months into the new structure and revitalised business. Progress is in-line with
expectations and we are benefiting from transitioning key publishing roles into our major studios, with
a highly coordinated and executed development, marketing and sales campaign for Tomb Raider:
Underworld well under way. 
We have identified the areas we need to focus on in order to achieve both our short and long-
term goals. Our North American partnership with Warner Bros. is key to maximising our presence in
this crucial market. This agreement became effective on 23 May 2008 and we are working with
Warner Bros. in a number of ways, including the delivery of high-impact channel marketing and PR
campaigns to benefit our forthcoming product releases in North America including Tomb Raider:
Underworld, and Warner Bros.’ own intellectual property, Batman, in our recently unveiled game
Batman: Arkham Asylum. We have also entered into a strategic mobile relationship with Electronic
Arts for the exclusive multi-regional distribution and licensing rights to certain Eidos titles across
mobile devices.
In Europe, our sales and distribution business continues to deliver but with greater focus and
momentum. We have agreed the sale of our Spanish distribution business, Proein SL, to Koch Media
and will now focus on maximising returns in the UK, France and Germany through our offices in
those territories, whilst working with distribution partners in other European and export territories. 
Results overview
Our revenue for the year declined to £118.9 million (2007: £128.8 million) reflecting the transitional
nature of our financial year. These figures exclude the revenues of £14.8 million (2007: £15.2 million)
from Proein SL since it has been treated as a discontinued operation. 
Published products contributed 60.0% (2007: 52.3%) of our total revenue with 10 titles released in
the year and 7.1 million units sold (2007: 7.6 million units) with Kane & Lynch (1.4 million units), Tomb
Raider: Anniversary (1.0 million units) and Conflict Denied Ops (0.5 million units) our largest unit
selling titles. 
Our distribution revenue declined to £42.2 million (35.5% of revenue) from £53.7 million (41.7% of
revenue) in 2007 as a result of the reduction in the number of global and local distribution titles
released. The majority of our distribution revenue was derived from sales of Age of Conan, which
sold in excess of one million units since release in the final quarter of the year to 30 June 2008. The
remainder of our revenue in both years was licensing and other income.
Both gross profit and gross margin improved as a result of the change in mix from lower margin
distribution products to higher margin published products, which also showed improved margin due
to higher achieved premium price points and our biggest release occurring in the holiday season.
Gross profit increased to £56.1 million (2007: £54.3 million) and our margin improved five
percentage points to 47.2%.
Development costs including royalty payments charged to the income statement for the year totalled
£104.3 million (2007: £32.8 million) of which £38.4 million relates to product releases. The remaining
£65.9 million are adjustments to the net realisable value of ongoing and discontinued projects. 
The Group spent £1 7.6 million (2007: £12.8 million) on product advertising in the financial year,
representing 14.8% of revenue (2007: 10.0%). The increase is primarily due to additional investment
to launch a new intellectual property in the holiday season.
We have identified the areas we need to focus on in
order to achieve both our short and long-term goals.
Our North American partnership with Warner Bros. is
key to maximising our presence in this crucial market.
In Monster Lab you become a
scientist’s apprentice and perform
a vast array of experiments to
create your very own monster
from over 100 million possible
monster part variations.  12 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Our administrative costs excluding exceptional charges were £62.9 million (2007: £39.5 million) of
which £31.7 million (2007: £15.3 million) is amortisation, depreciation and impairment charges and
£0.1 million (2007: £2.2 million) share-based payment compensation.  
The amortisation charge of acquired brands, technology and software was £11.7 million (2007:
£11.4 million) with an additional impairment charge of £16.3 million (2007: £nil), which reflects the
result of the strategic review and the decisions to restructure various components of the business, in
particular the acquisitions made last year.
Our loss before tax was £136.0 million (2007: loss £30.0 million) giving a basic loss per share of
136.3p (2007: loss 35.3p).
Market overview
The market is substantial and continues to grow, with new opportunities for publishers to develop
revenue streams and grow margins. 
The current videogame cycle is expected to be the biggest and longest in the industry’s history.
Screen Digest reports software revenues will be 23% higher than the previous cycle which ran from
2000 and was dominated by Sony’s PlayStation
®
2. In 2007 the value of the global software market
reached a new record of £14.7 billion of sales and is forecast to grow by 12.5% in 2008. Western
Europe and North America remain our key markets, with a combined software value of over
£13.2 billion.
As a business, we are well placed to maximise the opportunities presented by the continued
global growth in the market, which we believe is primarily driven by higher retail prices and an
increased number of platforms, along with higher tie ratios (the number of games sold per console
owner). In addition there is a broadening demographic appeal for games today and new revenue
opportunities presented by online gaming, such as premium downloadable content, in-game
advertising and micro transactions. 
In the hardware market the Nintendo Wii is the current leader in terms of number of consoles sold
to consumers, however no hardware manufacturer can yet assume ascendancy. As a publisher this
presents a number of exciting opportunities. Nintendo has undoubtedly broadened the demographic
appeal of videogames, while the Sony PLAYSTATION
®
3 and Microsoft Xbox 360 continue to appeal
to the core gamer. 
We believe the online gaming market will benefit from increased broadband speed and
penetration, presenting new revenue opportunities for our core games. We also believe that online
gameplay features will help maintain premium price points for our products by extending their appeal
and we intend to grow our presence in this online environment to exploit the strength of our games. 
The market is substantial and continues to grow, with
new opportunities for publishers to develop revenue
streams and grow margins.
The familiar logo, imprinted on the
memories of millions of football
fans has been given a more
emotive, contemporary and
original look to match the series’
gameplay – the new logo places
the emphasis on you, the
manager. SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13
Working in partnership: Exploring
partnership opportunities across the
business to achieve greater flexibility
and scale.
Kane & Lynch sold over 1.4 million
units on release in November
2007. The film rights have been
optioned by Academy Award-
winning Lionsgate Films.  14 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Working on quality: We are constantly
looking to improve every area of our
business, the way we work, the games
we work on and the results we deliver.
Age of Conan is a Massively
Multiplayer Online game,
developed and co-published by
Funcom for PC users. The game
launched in May 2008 to a great
deal of awareness and
anticipation, going straight to No.1
in the PC charts around the world. SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
Business Review
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Priorities and outlook
We have emerged from the past months of change as a stronger business and over the next year
we will begin to see the results of our restructured and revitalised operation. The Group is focused on
delivering higher quality games with our priorities set clearly on maximising the returns from our
cornerstone franchises. 
We remain totally focused on, and we are excited about, the worldwide release of Tomb Raider:
Underworld on 18 November in North America and 21 November in Europe. Tomb Raider:
Underworld has benefited from additional development time and a carefully choreographed build up
to launch with increased tactical online presence, delivery of high quality marketing assets and the
unveiling of a new ‘live’ Lara Croft – all helping to build ‘buzz’ prior to launch. 
Our first Tomb Raider: Underworld trailer was launched exclusively on MTV in July in the US and
Europe. Closer to home, the London unveiling of our new ‘live’ Lara Croft secured national news
coverage with the BBC and ITV in August and has continued to drive excitement and buzz for this
key title across all key territories over the past month.
We will continue to drive innovation and encourage creativity throughout the business as we look
to strategically grow our portfolio of videogame franchises. Products for our new financial year
include: Just Cause 2, Battlestations: Pacific, Monster Lab, Championship Manager 09, Batman:
Arkham Asylum and Tomb Raider: Underworld.
A consistent identity
We are focusing our efforts on our cornerstone franchises, which are predominantly associated with
the Eidos brand. The Eidos name is widely recognised in the games marketplace and is our trading
name. The Board feels that it would be beneficial to align the name of the listed Company to the
strong product brand that Eidos represents in order to benefit from a single identity and clearer
outward and internal communication. Therefore it is the Board’s recommendation to change the
name of the Company to Eidos plc.
A resolution to approve the change of name will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting,
which will be held on 2 December 2008. 
Our staff remain absolutely fundamental to the success of the business. This has been a most
challenging year and I would like to thank our employees for their contribution and continued
commitment over the past 12 months.
Phil Rogers
Chief Executive Officer
26 September 2008
We will continue to drive innovation and encourage
creativity throughout the business as we look to
strategically grow our portfolio of videogame
franchises.
