 6 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review
Chairman’s statement
T
he past year has been dominated by acquisition talks, restructuring and transition for the
Group. Our business has undergone fundamental change to ensure it is best placed to take
advantage of the growing interactive videogames market and deliver long-term returns for
shareholders.
At the start of the 2008 calendar year, the Group underwent a number of significant changes. In
early January after the termination of acquisition talks we reset our financial outlook for 2008 and
later that month Jane Cavanagh, Bill Ennis and Rob Murphy all stepped down from their respective
positions as directors of the Company. Phil Rogers became Chief Executive Officer and led a full
business review with the support of the Board which resulted in the Group being significantly
restructured and refocused. 
During the second half of the financial year, we raised £60 million (before expenses) by way of a
successful Placing and Open Offer of new shares to provide working capital and arranged a new
debt facility of £25 million. 
Results for the year
Our revenue declined to £118.9 million (2007: £128.8 million) in the financial year reflecting its
transitional nature (we have also excluded Proein SL from our results for both years as its sale is in
the final stages of completion and it has therefore been treated as a discontinued operation).
Nonetheless, both gross profit and gross profit margin improved as a result of the greater weighting
to published titles, the former increasing to £56.1 million (2007: £54.3 million) and latter improving
five percentage points to 47.2%.
Adjusted EBITDA loss was £99.1 million (2007: loss £13.3 million) highlighting the scale of
transformation that the Group has undergone. The restructuring resulted in an additional charge in
the year of £65.9 million against capitalised development costs. As of 30 June 2008 we have
£49.7 million carried on our balance sheet reflecting the investments we have made in major titles in
development including Tomb Raider: Underworld, Hitman 5, Batman: Arkham Asylum, Shellshock 2,
Just Cause 2 and new intellectual properties. 
Our decision to restructure various components of the business and reduce operating costs has
also resulted in a £16.3 million impairment to the value of intangible assets and exceptional
restructuring costs of £6.2 million. As a result our business structure has become more focused and
efficient with a leaner operating structure now in place to deliver the targeted reduction in operating
costs of £14 million in the new financial year. 
The past financial year has been difficult but the action we have taken was necessary and has
produced a business that is now well placed to capitalise on the opportunities that the videogames
industry presents. 
Strengthening of the Board
In addition to Phil Rogers, the Board has been strengthened with the appointment of two new non-
executive directors, Kevin Tsujihara and Aaron Brown, representing investors Warner Bros. and
Thorson Investments respectively. Since the end of the financial year we have also appointed a new
Chief Financial Officer, Robert Brent.
Soul Bubbles, an enchanting
action puzzle game for the
Nintendo DS, in which the player
controls a young shaman
apprentice entrusted with saving
lost spirits and steering them to
safety in the comfort of a
protective bubble.
Tim Ryan
Focus and clear strategy will stand the Group
on solid ground to achieve long-term returns
for shareholders. SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
Business Review
Chairman’s statement continued
Business structure
The Group’s business structure has been changed to a studio-led model focused on maximising
returns from our cornerstone franchises such as Tomb Raider, Hitman and Deus Ex. We have
adopted a flexible and efficient approach to distribution and have entered into a strategic agreement
with Warner Bros. Home Entertainment for the sales, marketing and distribution of our products in the
important North American market, strengthening our relationship with Warner Bros., one of the world’s
leading media companies.  
Working in partnership is a key theme for the future of the Group. By identifying and working with
the right partners we are looking to achieve greater scale and build flexibility into the business.
Summary
Our industry is growing through a broadening demographic appeal of games, increasing spend
among gamers, longer product cycles and new online opportunities. 
We have provided the right resource and environment for our studios to do what they do best:
create great intellectual property and commercially successful games, while the appropriate balance
of direct and third-party distribution channels will build flexibility and scale into our business.
Our cornerstone franchises have the potential to deliver substantial returns on investment and
remain key to the business. We must continue to be creative and innovative to ensure these and our
future games are relevant and appealing to our consumer.
The Board believes the Group is now well positioned to deliver returns for our shareholders by
leveraging our new business approach, revitalised focus and cornerstone franchises to capitalise on
the substantial market opportunity.
Tim Ryan
Chairman
26 September 2008
Developed by Eidos Hungary
Battlestations: Pacific, a third-
person action strategy game,
allows players to take direct
control over US and Japanese
fleets and squadrons in huge
epic battles over the Pacific, from
the Battle of Midway to Okinawa.
