 ANNUAL REPORT 2014  |  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc 2
At a glance
The pace of change accelerated at the turn of 
the 21st Century when EKF-diagnostic made 
the strategic decision to focus on developing 
a range of glucose, lactate and hemoglobin 
analysers. 
When, in 2010, EKF-diagnostic was acquired by 
UK AIM-listed company IBL plc, the process 
of building a unique international IVD business 
began in earnest as Quotient Diagnostics Ltd in 
Walton-on-Thames and Dublin based 
Argutus Medical were bought. These 
acquisitions expanded EKF’s portfolio to 
include HbA1c analysers and kidney and liver 
biomarkers for use in pharmaceutical research.
In 2011 the business, by now known as EKF 
Diagnostics Holdings plc, bought Stanbio 
Laboratory, a clinical chemistry manufacturer 
and distributor of IVD analysers based near 
San Antonio, Texas. The company’s US 
presence was increased further in 2014 
through the purchase of Separation 
Technology Inc., Florida, a manufacturer of 
hematocrit analysers and laboratory 
centrifuges. This was followed by the purchase 
of DiaSpect Medical A.B. a Swedish owned, 
German based manufacturer of hematology 
products.
EKF Molecular Diagnostics was added to the 
company portfolio in March 2013 following the 
acquisition of 360 Genomics from Oxitec 
Limited and others. This ﬁ rst foray into 
molecular diagnostics was complemented in 
April 2014 with the purchase of Selah 
Genomics Inc, Greenville, South Carolina a 
laboratory specialising in molecular 
diagnostics for personalised medicine.
Company history
In the 25 years since EKF was founded it has grown from a humble electrical 
engineering company based in the hinterland of the east German city of 
Magdeburg into an international, stock market-listed medical technology 
business.
A global IVD business
EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc has a global presence with facilities in key 
markets around the world. 
1.0 Strategic Review
Elkhart
Greenville
Sanford
San Antonio
Cardiff
Magdeburg Moscow
Shanghai
Leipzig
Sailauf
Krakow
London
Company Headquarters
Manufacturing
Research & Development
 Molecular Laboratory Services  
