 ANNUAL REPORT 2014  |  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc 12
Chief Executive’s Review 1.0 Strategic Review
During 2014 we made progress as we saw the organic growth of the core 
business continue to be above the global industry average. Additionally, we 
made three strategic acquisitions and although at times challenging, these 
acquisitions have been quickly integrated and have given us signiﬁ cant growth 
opportunities over the next three years. Year-on-year we have seen continuous 
improvement in both revenue and AEBITDA despite the decrease in healthcare 
spending worldwide, reduction in re-imbursement, tighter regulatory controls 
and the instability in Russia and the Middle East.
We now have a ﬁ rm footing in the global Point 
of Care market with over 80,000 instruments 
installed globally. We have seen a large 
increase in the sales of our Quo-Lab and Hemo 
Control instruments. We are also making 
progress with our Molecular Diagnostics 
division with the signing of contracts with 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Gilupi and 
Angle, supporting our belief that our 
PointMan™ product will become key to some 
major new technologies, especially in the 
detection of circulating tumour cells in whole 
blood. In addition Selah has given us a valuable 
platform and relationships that will enable us 
to deliver signiﬁ cant opportunities in the 
United States and beyond in 2015.
EKF Group has a lot to deliver in 2015 but 
those deliverables are clear and deﬁ ned as we 
have laid the base foundations in key areas to 
deliver growth above the industry average.
Operations
Structural change
During the year we have continued to initiate a 
number of signiﬁ cant structural changes to the 
business with the aim of improving efﬁ ciency, 
reducing cost, and driving revenue. With 
minimal disruption we successfully transferred 
the manufacture of the Quo-Test and Quo-Lab 
product lines, including both instruments and 
cartridges, into our main European production 
base in Barleben, Germany. This involved the 
commissioning of a new Quo-Lab cartridge 
production line which was designed and built 
by EKF’s in house production engineering 
team and which has reduced the cost of 
manufacture signiﬁ cantly. Having the 
ability to transfer production and build our 
own automated production lines is very rare 
and valuable to EKF. 
Our facility in Ireland has been closed 
following the termination of the building lease. 
While a small core project management team 
will remain in place, the majority of 
development projects, and the manufacture of 
the biomarker products have been transferred 
to the Walton-on-Thames site.
With the successful transfer of production of 
Quo-Test and Quo-Lab instruments and 
reagents cartridges to the Barleben 
manufacturing site and the closure of the 
Dublin site, the Company expects to 
beneﬁ t from operational savings in the region 
of £0.75m annually. In addition, work has now 
begun on expanding the Barleben site which 
will provide increased production capacity. 
As production levels rise, the Company 
expects this to have an additional positive 
impact on product margins, as well as creating 
further overhead efﬁ ciency opportunities. The 
Company will also continue to integrate the 
acquisitions made in 2014 and to exploit 
cross-selling initiatives and cost efﬁ ciency 
opportunities. 
We have recently enhanced and expanded our 
regional structure, including in China where we 
are about to open a representative ofﬁ ce in 
Shanghai. At the same time we have improved 
our distributor support, introducing a Premier 
Partner Programme, held our ﬁ rst international 
distributor meeting, and intend to employ a 
dedicated distribution chain manager.
The strengthening of the Sales and Marketing 
Infrastructure by bringing in experienced 
Business Unit Directors from major 
diagnostic organisations demonstrates that 
EKF is developing a global presence in the 
diagnostic industry and investment in this area 
will be key to continued growth.
Acquisitions
The three acquisitions made in the ﬁ rst half 
of the year have expanded our product line 
capabilities in hematology and molecular 
diagnostics.
Separation Technology, Inc. (STI) brings a 
successful line of centrifugal separation 
products all of which are FDA 510(k) 
approved. Additionally, it brings Ultracrit, an 
ultrasound based hematology analyser which 
is being used in a number of major US blood 
banks. STI has been successfully integrated 
and has shown continued growth in the US 
market through the expanded sales coverage 
via our US sales team.
DiaSpect Medical has designed a hematology 
instrument which is available in both desktop 
and handheld formats. Both formats use 
DiaSpect’s patented reagentless cuvette 
technology, which allows cheaper
manufacture, longer shelf life and results in 
under two seconds, which is particularly useful 
in blood banks where time to result is critical. 
The DiaSpect range is sold into blood banks 
via our partnership with Fresenius, the world’s 
leading supplier of blood bank products. We 
announced on 5 January 2015 that the 
Company agreed to make a cash payment 
of £1.425m as ﬁ nal settlement for the total 
deferred cash consideration due. The original 
maximum deferred consideration totalled 
£4.75m. EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13
1.0 Strategic Review
Selah Genomics, Inc. is a US CLIA certiﬁ ed 
supplier of panels of molecular diagnostic tests 
to patients who are referred by general 
practitioners or by corporate health teams 
in the USA. Funding is usually either through 
Medicare or private health insurers. The 
company provides EKF with signiﬁ cant 
opportunities through their relationships with 
major partners (Becton Dickenson, Greenville 
Health System, DecisionQ) as well as a high 
quality product range (PrecisionPath, 
PrecisionPath Discovery and the Ferrer InCode 
products). Delivery will be the main focus for 
the molecular diagnostics business in 2015.
Point-of-Care
During 2014 we focused on improving our 
distribution channels into major markets. 
Whilst we still have some way to go we have 
had success in introducing Human, Arkray, 
Fresenius, Alere Japan, and Multiclone as 
distributors, therefore strengthening our 
global sales capabilities. The current year will 
be focused on delivery. We have a strong mix 
of mature and new products and with the 
strengthening of the commercial team we will 
aim to continue to grow at a higher rate than 
the industry average.
The Point-of-Care business continues to 
perform well, with growth being seen across 
most products. In particular, Quo-Lab 
instrument sales are up more than 30% on the 
previous year with the product now registered 
in more countries than ever, including Japan, 
which offers EKF a signiﬁ cant growth 
opportunity. Quo-Lab is a glycated 
hemoglobin analyser used in diabetes 
monitoring.
Biosen instrument sales are showing an 
increase of more than 8% on the previous year, 
mainly due to strong growth in Asia where we 
have signed a multi-million Euro contract with 
a new partner based in northern China. We 
do have signiﬁ cant challenges in Russia where 
Biosen is the major product line; we would 
expect to see a 70% drop in revenues in Russia 
due to the reduction in healthcare spending 
and the impact of the rouble. A large contract 
win in China will go some way to mitigate this. 
Biosen is a range of analysers which 
measure glucose and lactate quickly and 
precisely in clinics, laboratories and sports 
medicine facilities.
Hemo Control continues to perform well 
especially in Mexico and Latin America where 
we have continued to win signiﬁ cant tenders. 
The performance by Alere in the US market 
has been disappointing as the growth has not 
been as expected but we have continued to 
increase market share. The new sales 
infrastructure will enable us to support Alere 
in continuing to grow the US market. 
Hemo Control is a point of care device that 
provides immediate, lab-quality results for 
both hemoglobin and hematocrit from one 
simple test.
Central Laboratory
The main product in the Central Laboratory 
division, ß-HB, grew by 9%. Conversely, the 
Central Laboratory market is very 
competitive and we saw a decline overall. In 
2014 we took steps to mitigate this and in 2015 
we will launch a Procalcitonin marker (PCT) for 
sepsis diagnosis as a new product and also a 
new desktop Clinical Chemistry analyser. The 
Business Unit Director will also be responsible 
for expanding the Clinical Chemistry Business 
outside the US.
Molecular Diagnostics
Selah Genomics had a major setback in May 
2014 with the announcement that the 
reimbursement for the DME panel testing was 
to be signiﬁ cantly reduced. This led to the 
announcement that revenues for 2014 would 
be materially lower. Whilst DME testing 
continues, it will not be the focus of the 
management in 2015. Alongside PointMan™, 
Selah offers a signiﬁ cant opportunity for EKF 
over the next 3 years. In 2015 we will have a 
number of deliverables as set out in the 
Chairman’s Statement.
To deliver these we will be bringing all 
molecular products and services under one 
corporate identity as well as introducing US 
and UK industry experts to drive the molecular 
business which has real potential.
In 2014 Selah contributed £3.0m to full year 
revenues. Whilst we still face some choppy 
waters in the short term the change of focus 
has led to increased commercial 
opportunities and the potential for further 
signiﬁ cant partnerships. For example, as 
mentioned earlier, we have announced a 
collaboration with the Greenville Health 
System’s ITOR facility, DecisionQ, and BD 
Technologies which will use PrecisionPath as 
the basis of a system that supports improved 
clinical decisions in the treatment of colon 
cancer patients. This is one of a number of 
opportunities for Selah in 2015.  
The initial Selah purchase agreement was 
drafted to accommodate the risk of reduced 
reimbursement payments via a reduction in 
deferred consideration payments if certain 
performance targets were not met; the lower 
than anticipated sales from Selah is likely to 
result in the year one earn-out payment of 
$17.5m not being payable. We still believe that 
Selah represents a signiﬁ cant value 
opportunity to shareholders over the short to 
medium term if we deliver on the above.
During 2014 the value of PointMan
™
 to the 
molecular industry has become clear. 
PointMan
™
 signiﬁ cantly enhances the sensitivity 
of any molecular platform, as well as working 
on a number of sample types such as biopsy 
or liquid biopsy (whole blood), and can be 
utilised in the latest technologies such as 
circulating tumour cells and circulating free 
DNA. Additionally this has led to MGH, Gilupi 
and Angle evaluating PointMan
™
 on their 
differing technologies and we look forward to 
reporting on results in the near future.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014  |  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc 14
Our collaboration with The Institute of Life 
Sciences in Swansea has shown that PointMan
™
 
is effective in isolating and characterising 
certain low-level DNA mutations in blood, 
paving the way for the development of a 
simple cancer screening and diagnostic test 
based on a blood sample rather than a biopsy.  
The data highlighted the utility of a 
blood-based test and critically demonstrated 
that PointMan
™
 was highly sensitive and can 
detect just three mutant cells in a background 
of 10,000 wild type cells. 
The uniﬁ cation of the molecular business, the 
progress being made with PrecisionPath 
and the continued development of the 
commercial offering of PointMan
™
 provide 
the Company with conﬁ dence that 2015 will 
be a very signiﬁ cant year for establishing the 
credentials of the EKF Molecular Diagnostics 
division and a considerable generator of 
shareholder value.
New products
During 2014 we introduced or entered 
late-stage development of a number of new or 
improved product lines. These include:-
• SensPoint, a POC lactate measuring system  
 designed for use in peri-natal settings. 
• Enhancements to major revenue
 generating product lines to equip our 
 customers with data-management and 
 connectivity capability.
• Procalcitonin - this is a Central Laboratory   
 test for measuring sepsis.
• sTNFR1/2 biomarkers that will predict fast
 progressors to Chronic Kidney Disease   
 (CKD) in both Type 1 and 2 diabetics. If   
 untreated CKD can lead to End Stage Renal 
 Disease which is one of the costliest 
 conditions for healthcare payers. sTNFR1 has 
 been exclusively licenced from Joslin 
 Diabetes Centre in Boston and is a 
 signiﬁ cant development project for EKF.   
 EKF is working very closely with major 
 pharmaceutical and dialysis companies to   
 incorporate sTNFR1/2 as complementary   
 diagnostics with their therapies.
• Inborn Errors of Metabolism - EKF is 
 developing a POC system for monitoring 
 Phenylalanine levels in PKU (a rare genetic
 condition that is present from birth). The 
 company is working very closely with a 
 major pharmaceutical company with PKU 
 therapies on the market and signiﬁ cantly 
 improved drugs in late development. In PKU, 
 Phenylalanine (an amino acid) builds up and 
 if untreated can lead to mental retardation, 
 behavioural disorders, seizures and other 
 serious medical problems. 
Results
Revenue
Revenue for the year was £40.1m (2013: 
£31.8m), an increase of 26%. Overall, 
acquisitions contributed £6.5m to revenues. 
Underlying organic revenues accounted for 
£33.6m of total revenues which represented 
6% organic growth year-on-year.
Gross proﬁ t
Gross proﬁ t has increased to £19.9m (2013: 
£16.3m), which is an increase of 22%. Gross 
proﬁ t as a percentage of revenue is 49.8% 
(2013: 51.4%), largely as a result of the 
structurally lower margins on the Selah 
business because of the arrangements made 
with their billing and marketing partners.
Administration costs and research and 
development costs
Administrative expenses have increased by 
59.6%. The increase comes from the 
acquisitions, the additional amortisation 
associated with the acquisitions, added 
investment in sales resources, and from a 
number of exceptional items including the 
closure costs for our Dublin facility, the costs 
of moving manufacture of the Quo-Test and 
Quo-Lab products, and the costs of making 
the three acquisitions in the year. In addition 
to the R & D costs, included in administration 
costs of £1.3m, a further £1.5m of expenditure 
has been capitalised.
The charge for depreciation of ﬁ xed assets and 
for the amortisation of intangibles is £5.0m 
(2013: £3.6m).
Operating proﬁ t and adjusted earnings before 
interest tax and depreciation
The Group has made an operating loss of 
£2.5m (2013: proﬁ t of £2.4m) for the reasons 
outlined above. We consider a more 
meaningful measure of underlying 
performance to be adjusted EBITDA which for 
2014 was £6.3m (2013: £4.8m). This excludes 
the effects of share-based payments of £0.5m 
(2013: £0.7m) and exceptional losses of £3.3m 
(2013: exceptional gains of £1.8m). 
Finance costs
Finance costs have decreased to £1.6m (2013: 
£1.8m). The decrease is largely a result of 
fair value adjustments associated with the 
deferred shares withheld as part of the tax 
warranty claim.
Chief Executive’s Review continued 1.0 Strategic Review EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15
Tax
There is a tax charge of £1.4m (2013: £1.5m). 
The charge is largely the result of the 
utilisation of a deferred tax asset associated 
with the Quotient business, as well as 
unrelieved losses made in certain jurisdictions. 
The effect of the potential tax warranty claim 
has been reduced following negotiations 
between the Group’s German subsidiary, its 
tax advisers, and the German tax authorities. 
We are hopeful this issue will be fully resolved 
early in 2015. The reduced tax charge has an 
associated reduction of the warranty claim, 
this amount has been included in exceptional 
items.
Balance sheet
Property, plant and equipment
We have invested £1.0m (2013: £1.2m) in 
property plant and equipment. Major projects 
include building work at Barleben and 
additional equipment at Selah, both to increase 
capacity.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets have increased substantially 
following the three acquisitions made in March 
and April, plus further capitalisation of 
development costs. Following the closure 
of the Group’s Dublin facility, the associated 
goodwill and trade secret assets, and the 
capitalised development cost associated with 
the Renastat project of £1.2m, have been 
impaired in full.
Deferred consideration
The ﬁ nal payment of deferred consideration of 
£0.4m in respect of the acquisition of Quotient 
Diagnostics Ltd was made during the year. The 
small remaining provision has been credited to 
exceptional items. The deferred consideration 
payable to the vendors of DiaSpect Medical 
was renegotiated down to £1.4m and this was 
paid in January 2015.
Cash and working capital
Cash used in operations in 2014 is £3.3m (2013: 
£3.1m generated). Following the fund raising in 
April, the Group had cash on hand at 31 
December 2014 of £8.3m (2013: £2.5m), and 
a net cash position of £2.1m (2013: £0.1m).  
Trade debtors at year end are especially high 
as a result of sales to Mexico made during the 
year and especially in December. Payment of 
some of these outstanding amounts totalling 
£5.5m has been delayed because of slow 
payments to the relevant distributors by the 
Mexican Government.
Outlook
Whilst we acknowledge that 2014 was a 
challenging year where we had setbacks, we 
performed very creditably with 26% overall 
growth and we made very signiﬁ cant 
progress. It is clear what we have to deliver in 
2015 and we are very conﬁ dent that this will 
be achieved. In 2015 we will see a number of 
new products being brought to market as well 
as improvements to some of our important 
existing products. 
The integration of Selah and EKF Molecular 
Diagnostics into one company will reap short 
and medium term rewards and Selah’s 
PrecisionPath service, which provides a panel 
of clinically validated biomarkers that can be 
used to design speciﬁ c personalised treatment 
plans for cancer patients, represents a huge 
opportunity for growth. This has the potential 
to become a very high margin reimbursable 
testing service and the Company will keep 
Shareholders updated as this progresses. 
Additionally, it is clear how advantageous 
PointMan™ will be in the next generation of 
molecular diagnostic testing.
We believe that this report provides 
Shareholders with very clear guidance on 
our deliverables for 2015. In addition to these 
operational goals we are determined to deliver 
sensible ﬁ nancial goals and as such have set 
as one of our key performance indicators the 
challenge to deliver at least 10% annual organic 
growth therefore outperforming our industry 
peers. We are convinced that by taking a more 
measured approach we are putting in place all 
of the factors required to become even more 
successful and to produce long term 
sustainable double digit growth, and value for 
shareholders.
Julian Baines
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
16 March 2015
1.0 Strategic Review
