 ANNUAL REPORT 2014  |  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc 10
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Fellow Shareholder
The year past has been a curate’s egg of a year for the Company. There have 
been many positive factors as we have continued to grow both organically 
and by acquisition but they have been offset by certain events largely 
beyond our control.
1.0 Strategic Review
Strategy
From a strategic perspective we believe we 
needed to achieve three key objectives in 
2014.
The ﬁ rst was to underpin our current point of 
care offering particularly in hemoglobin testing 
where our existing hemoglobin technology, 
widely regarded as the Rolls-Royce of 
instruments, was being threatened by newer 
technologies. It was against that background 
that we acquired DiaSpect Medical AB last 
April for an upfront cash and equity 
consideration of £16m with an earnout of up to 
£4.75m, which was subsequently settled by a 
cash payment of £1.425m in January 2015.
We believe that the DiaSpect product suite 
allows us to compete more effectively against 
our principal competitor. I believe the beneﬁ t 
of this acquisition will be more fully evidenced 
during 2015.
Secondly, we recognised that we needed to 
embolden our presence in molecular
diagnostics. In an ideal world this would have 
been in Point-of-Care, but given the plethora 
of technologies in development together with 
some launched products, not only would we 
have been playing catch-up with a me-too 
offering, but the scale of investment was not 
within our investment capacity. 
It was the Board’s view that a different 
approach was necessary and one which 
sought to build upon the Company’s toe-hold 
in molecular diagnostics through its 
previous acquisition of 360 Genomics Ltd and 
the PointMan™ technology.
We sought to do this through the acquisition 
of Selah Genomics Inc primarily for two 
reasons; one tactical and the other strategic.
Tactically the DME (Drug Metabolising 
Enzymes) testing was growing and set to grow 
further and we believed that it would help 
underpin our short to medium term growth 
ambitions. Strategically, we believed, and still 
do more than ever, that the true value will 
be evidenced by the work being undertaken 
at our facility in Greenville which we believe 
is at the forefront of molecular diagnostic 
testing in the ﬁ eld of personalised medicine 
via next-generation sequencing (NGS) testing 
using both internally developed tests and 
leveraging externally developed tests.
It was unfortunate that within a very short 
period of time after the acquisition the local US 
Medicare Administrative Contractor (‘MAC’) 
withdrew reimbursement for the DME panel. 
We have sought during 2014 to resolve this 
issue. We have explored a number of avenues 
and the effort that has been expended has 
been at the expense of other opportunities. 
We have come to the conclusion this month 
that the opportunity cost to us in pursuing 
DME revenues through the current channels 
and without the support of the MAC is too high 
when compared to the more signiﬁ cant and 
credible upside from PrecisionPath, which 
provides a panel of clinically validated 
biomarkers that can be used to design speciﬁ c 
personalised treatment plans for cancer 
patients.
It is beholden upon me to address the key 
issue of reimbursement at point of 
acquisition. Whilst the risk to reimbursement 
was recognised in due diligence, neither 
ourselves nor the incumbent management 
perceived the threat to be an immediate one. 
Given the nature of reimbursement in the USA 
had we been located in another state such as 
New Hampshire or Connecticut then the ability 
to have continued in the execution of our plan 
would have gone ahead unfettered. However, 
feeling sorry for oneself is likely to elicit zero 
sympathy and we believe a more realistic way 
forward is to work with the MAC in South 
Carolina to provide to their standard the 
necessary clinical evidence to support the use 
of a DME panel in anticipation of
reimbursement becoming available again at 
some stage in the future.
Thirdly, whilst not based on our experience 
with DME it is clearly evident to those in the 
industry that health payers worldwide cannot 
continue to pay for the ever burgeoning 
number of new diagnostic tests and 
therapeutics unless clear health economic 
beneﬁ ts can be demonstrated not in 
subjective terms, but in hard cash terms. It 
was against that strategic backdrop that we 
have taken a minority position in the Toronto 
based DxEconomix whose prime objective is 
to obtain value based pricing for IVD products 
for its clients. Progress has been slower than I 
had originally anticipated in that whilst many 
organisations recognise the need they are not 
yet fully prepared to pay for it.
Results overview
The Group has seen strong growth during the 
year with revenue of £40.1m (2013: £31.8m), an 
increase of 26%. This is despite the impact of 
a weak dollar and the well publicised issues in 
Russia, which include a very signiﬁ cant
currency deterioration. Revenues would have 
been higher by £2.6m had they been
translated at 2013 rates. Within this, organic 
growth was 6%.
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, and amortisation (AEBITDA),  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11
1.0 Strategic Review
which excludes share-based payments and 
exceptional items, is our preferred 
measurement of income, and is up 31% to 
£6.3m (2013: £4.8m). 
Board
During the year Gordon Hall retired as a 
Director having been on the EKF Board since 
2005. Having known Gordon for over twenty 
years I would like to thank him for his support 
both for the Company and for me personally 
and I wish him well for the future.
Subsequent to Gordon’s departure we 
strengthened the Board’s Non-Executive 
contingent through the appointment of 
Doris-Ann Williams and David Toohey, both of 
whom have immense industry knowledge and 
experience. Their contribution to the Board 
since joining has been invaluable.
The Board’s Executive contingent was 
strengthened through ﬁ rstly the appointment 
of Paul Foulger as Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer – Paul 
has been with us from the start and it was a 
natural progression for Paul to make. Secondly, 
Tito Bacarese-Hamilton was appointed Chief 
Technology Ofﬁ cer. In the coming year a 
considerable burden rests on Tito’s shoulders 
as we seek to launch a number of new 
products.
Regarding the passing of my baton, that will 
be done when the time is right, we must 
absolutely deliver on our expectations this 
year and restore the conﬁ dence in our 
shareholders for the team of which I am part. 
The pursuit of a signiﬁ cantly more expansionist 
strategy under different chairmanship cannot 
be contemplated until that conﬁ dence is 
restored and the share price responds 
accordingly.
Restructuring
During the year we moved our Quo-Test and 
Quo-Lab manufacturing to Barleben and 
closed our Dublin facility.
In 2015 we have reﬁ ned our existing divisional 
structure of Point-of-Care and Molecular.
Julian Baines, whilst retaining overall Group 
CEO responsibilities, has been tasked with the 
day-to-day running of the Molecular Division 
with a primary focus of providing diagnostic 
tests directed at therapeutic intervention and 
monitoring.
Richard Evans will assume day-to-day 
responsibility for the whole of our Point of 
Care Division with that division being split into 
four main Business Units of Hemoglobin, 
Diabetes, Maternal & Women’s Health, and 
Central Laboratory.
We believe this focus will bring beneﬁ ts during 
2015 and that the latent value in our molecular 
diagnostics offering will be realised.
Outlook
As we move into 2015 the overall outlook 
is positive despite some headwinds; Russia 
where revenues this year are likely to be no 
more than 30% of last year’s due to the 
continued impact of sanctions; and, the 
continued downward pressure on 
reimbursement globally.
Despite the above and an industry which is 
experiencing overall growth rates of 5% our 
ambitions remain to achieve double digit 
growth and to be able to exploit the 
opportunities in front of us.
We are under no illusion that we must 
deliver on sensible expectations and that as 
we continue to seek to grow we must do this 
in a non-dilutory fashion. As with all my years 
with the Company the results are back-end 
weighted and 2015 appears to be no exception 
to this.
We will continue to review the frequent 
approaches from private equity groups as to 
whether this is to the beneﬁ t of Shareholders 
but thus far none of the approaches represent 
anything more than opportunism.
The key deliverables for 2015 are set out below.
Point-of-Care
• Further develop the hemoglobin business   
 across the whole spectrum of hemoglobin   
 applications and markets using connected   
 solutions to open new markets in monitoring 
• Use EKF’s expertise to establish lactate
 measurement in peri-natal settings as a   
 marker of maternal and neonatal well-being
• Continue to build on EKF’s experience in
 very accurate glucose measurement by   
 introducing the Biosen instrument to new 
 markets, particularly in Asia and Latin 
 America
• Incorporate connectivity and data 
 management in all our major revenue
 generating product lines
• Development of the ﬁ rst ever POC 
 monitoring system for patients with 
 Phenylketonuria (PKU)
Molecular Diagnostics
• CE Marking for PointMan™ T790M assay
• Reimbursement for PrecisionPath™ 
• Complete the development of PrecisionPath  
 Discovery
• Launching the initial tests for the Oncomine   
 programme through PrecisionPath Discovery
• Launch the Ferrer Incode products into 
 Private Payer and Corporate Wellness 
 markets
• Transfer the manufacture of PointMan™ into   
 Selah
• Achieve ISO 13485 in the Selah facility
• Progress the colon cancer programme with   
 Becton Dickinson, DecisionQ and Greenville   
 Health System
• Deliver more pharma partnerships
I am buoyed by the opportunities in front of us 
and in particular the opportunities presented by 
PrecisionPath™ .
David Evans
Executive Chairman
16 March 2015
