 Eland Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
Les Blair
Chief Executive Officer
Eland, from its formation in 2010, has been focused on building 
a portfolio of upstream oil and gas assets in West Africa, 
particularly in Nigeria. In September 2012 we completed the 
acquisition of the initial part of that portfolio when the Group 
acquired a 45% equity in OML 40, through a special purpose 
vehicle, and listed the Company on the AIM market in London.
Re-commencement of Production
In 2013 our key focus was the restart of production from the two 
existing wells on the Opuama field. This consisted of relaying the 
field flowlines from wells 1 and 3 to the Opuama flowstation and 
the rehabilitation of the flowstation itself.
In addition the 36km export pipeline from Opuama to Otumara, 
where it joins the Shell-operated Trans Escravos Pipeline 
network, was repaired and tested.
In the early part of 2014 we commenced production on OML 40. 
Our initial production analysis has been encouraging with 
average production stabilising at over 3,500 bopd.
Our initial production has been restricted due to multiple factors. 
One of the most significant factors was a subsea pipeline leak at 
Shell’s Forcados Terminal in early March. This resulted in 
Opuama being shut in for most of March and early April. The 
Terminal re-commenced operations in mid April.
As expected with a re-entry and rehabilitation programme there 
have been a number of teething issues on the field with 
infrastructure and the 36km export pipeline which have 
necessitated shut downs of between one and three weeks to 
carry out repairs. Despite these enforced delays the 
commencement of production is a significant step forward for 
the Company. The task now is to improve on the reliability of the 
infrastructure and attain the consistent production levels which 
are achievable and maximise the value of the ensuing revenue.
The OML 40 Licence
OML 40 is a portfolio in itself, located in a highly prospective oil 
basin. It has sizeable reserves and a contingent resources base with 
significant exploration upside. The new competent person’s report 
(CPR), commissioned during the year, was issued by Netherland 
Sewell & Associates Inc. and contains significantly higher volumes 
than previously certified following a detailed re-evaluation of the 
full technical database provided by the previous operator. Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Eland Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15
The new CPR details gross 1P and 2P reserves of 38.2 mmbbls and 
81.8 mmbbls respectively. Furthermore, we have seen an increase in 
our contingent resources (2C) from 15.5 mmbbls to 45.3 mmbbls 
and a best estimate for unrisked prospective resources of 119.5 
mmbbl. These details have been determined on 3D seismic 
interpretation and information from the eighteen wells drilled on 
the licence.
We anticipate that there are significant gas volumes on the 
licence particularly at deeper levels. In the future we will look to 
source commercial opportunities for this gas.
The Nigerian Oil & Gas Landscape
The past few years have seen a period of dramatic change in the 
onshore licence landscape of Nigeria. The IOCs, which have held 
the majority of the onshore licences since the inception of oil and 
gas production in Nigeria, have started divesting many of these 
interests. The IOCs have either sold, or are in the process of selling, 
participating interests in licences considered as non-strategic.
The majority of the export pipeline network for the onshore fields in 
Nigeria was installed in the mid-1970s and will require to be fully 
replaced in the years ahead. The Nigerian Government has 
provided significant tax incentives to encourage such regeneration 
and redevelopment of the onshore oil and gas sector. 
Onshore drilling activity has been at a low level in Nigeria for a 
number of years. The advent of improved drilling technologies 
provides an opportunity to increase flow rates and maximise 
recovery from these onshore fields. This opportunity exists 
within OML 40 as all of the existing wells were drilled in the 
1970s. Utilising modern drilling and production technologies 
allows greater recovery and significantly lower finding and 
development costs for every barrel produced.
The divestitures by the IOCs that have taken place over the last 
three years have resulted in the creation of a number of smaller 
Nigerian based independents. Further divestitures will increase 
the opportunities for these companies.
Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Responsibility
We owe a duty of care to the communities and the environment 
in which we operate and we stand to be held accountable for 
our actions.
We maintain focus in our communities on their right to good 
health, education and employment in the development of the 
natural resources.
Some of the key deliverables within our community programmes 
are the provision of electricity, drinking water, education, medical 
care and employment, all of which are absent to a large degree 
throughout much of the Niger Delta.
One of our key planned community projects is the provision 
of free electricity to the community surrounding the Opuama 
flowstation. This particular project has the added benefit that the 
electricity is produced using associated gas from oil production. 
Utilising the associated gas in this way also significantly reduces 
the flare gas produced at the flowstation, reducing the impact on 
the environment. This particular community project creates a 
mutually beneficial interdependency between the oil company 
and the local community.
Major activities planned in 2014
Throughout 2013, planning for the 2014 drilling campaign was 
progressed with the preparation of a Field Development Plan (FDP) 
on the Opuama Field. This drilling campaign will include significant 
dredging activities to allow access for the drilling rig which will drill 
horizontal and directional wells to fully develop the field.
We also plan to replace the export pipeline to allow an increased 
capacity of up to 100,000 bopd and we are also considering the 
installation of an additional export route from OML 40. The 
drilling campaign on Opuama is planned to start during the 
second half of 2014 and will continue into 2015. With existing 
production and the planned new wells we expect an 
approximate exit rate of 7,000 bopd.
Outlook
The oil and gas business has always been very competitive in 
Nigeria and in West Africa and never more so than in recent 
years of sustained high oil prices. We continue to evaluate new 
venture opportunities, but our primary focus remains on 
maximising the value of our existing assets. 
I would like to sincerely thank our management and staff, who 
with the full support of our Board, business partners and 
shareholders, have made our significant progress since listing in 
September 2012 possible. I have no doubt that during 2014 we 
will continue to develop a business of which we can all be proud 
and deliver the value that is in OML 40.
Les Blair
Chief Executive Officer
26 May 2014
“ Our primary focus remains  
on maximising the value of  
our existing asset.”
