 Eland Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 
and Financial Statements 2014
14
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
George Maxwell
Chief Executive Officer
Eland has had a strong 2014, from first oil in 
February, the award of Pioneer Tax status on 
OML 40 in May, acquiring a second Nigerian 
asset, the Ubima field, in August and ending 
the year with over 90% production uptime in 
December. This level of production 
consistency has continued into 2015 with 
near-continuous production from December 
through the end of April, with only planned 
maintenance of seven days on the Shell Trans 
Escravos Pipeline (TEP) resulting in any 
downtime. 
Management Change
During this year we also saw a change in 
management as I moved into the Chief 
Executive role and Les Blair moved aside to 
focus on in-country strategy and key 
interfaces. This was a natural progression as 
the Company moved from an acquisition 
and building phase towards asset 
development. The changing landscape in 
the Nigerian oil & gas sector has seen a rise 
in the number of independents, and more 
recently further divestments by Shell and 
Chevron and we anticipate this process of 
divestitures by the IOC’s to continue in 2015 
and beyond.
Eland remains well placed to take advantage 
of opportunities as they arise and during this 
time we will continue to expand our 
production in country.
Eland, from its formation 
in 2010, has been focused 
on building a portfolio of 
upstream oil and gas 
assets in West Africa, 
particularly in Nigeria. In 
September 2012, we 
completed the acquisition 
of the initial part of that 
portfolio when the Group 
acquired a 45% equity 
interest in OML 40, 
through a special purpose 
vehicle, and listed the 
Company on AIM.
Completion of Rehabilitation Work 
and Commencement of First Oil
In February 2014 we commenced 
production from the Opuama field following 
the completion of flowstation and pipeline 
repairs. Initial production rates of 3,500 
bopd were achieved from two wells 
(Opuama 1 and 3), with crude oil delivered to 
the Forcados terminal and sold through an 
off-take agreement with Shell Western 
Supply and Trading Limited.
We encountered a number of challenges 
relating to the flow station and pipeline 
integrity. These issues caused numerous 
production interruptions from February 
through August and in addition there was  
a significant delay due to the shut down of 
the Forcados terminal in March and April of 
last year.
During 2014 we significantly improved the 
integrity of the pipeline. This contributed to 
the improved level of uptime we have 
experienced over the past 5 months. Strategic Report
Eland Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 
and Financial Statements 2014
15
Pioneer Tax Status
In May 2014 our local company Elcrest 
Exploration and Production Nigeria Ltd 
(“Elcrest”) was awarded Pioneer Tax status 
for OML 40. This will run for an initial three 
year term until May 2017 with an opportunity 
to extend for an additional two years on 
successful application. This provides an 
excellent incentive for investment in our 
asset. OML 40 is an underdeveloped asset 
of 498km
2
, with the Opuama field in 
production and the Gbetiokun field awaiting 
development. In addition from our most 
recent analysis we determine over 75 drilling 
targets within the licence, which we plan to 
exploit over the coming five years. The tax 
incentive allows the re-investment into OML 
40 to accelerate the growth.
Ubima
In August 2014 we acquired a 40% interest 
in the Ubima field, located onshore in the 
Niger Delta, just north of Port Harcourt. The 
agreement allows Eland the opportunity to 
operate the field as technical and finance 
partner to All Grace Energy Ltd (“All Grace”) 
which holds and retains a 60% equity 
interest. The addition of this asset to our 
portfolio was a key development and 
highlighted the benefit of having a strong 
presence in-country. The field currently has 
an estimated 33.9 mmbbls gross contingent 
resources and we have already commenced 
detailed sub-surface work, an environmental 
impact assessment on the development 
plan and land surveys. Further work is 
planned in Q4 of 2015.
Funding our Operations
During 2014 we met all of the conditions 
precedent required to access our $22 million 
bridge loan facility with Standard Chartered 
Bank. The debt remained undrawn until 
expiry in February 2015, and at the end of 
2014 we completed and signed a four and a 
half year Reserve Based Lending facility of 
up to $75 million, again with Standard 
Chartered Bank. $35 million of the facility 
has initially been committed by Standard 
Chartered and a further $40 million is 
expected to be syndicated by the end  
of Q2 2015. 
Work Programme and Budget
The Work Programme and Budget for 2014 
had originally focused on re-commencing 
production followed by an initial drilling 
campaign in Opuama. The inconsistency of 
production delayed access to our debt 
facility, resulting in a delay to the programme. 
During this time we re-evaluated workover 
opportunities. In Q4 of 2014 we reviewed 
three potential workover possibilities, 
Opuama 4, 5 and 7. The conclusion of this 
evaluation resulted in a change to our 2015 
work programme, where we included both 
Opuama 5 and 7 into the programme. These 
two workovers are in addition to the planned 
two new wells (Opuama 8 and 9) due to 
commence in Q3 2015. We are currently 
working on Opuama 5 and expect to have 
the well in production during Q2 of 2015.
The experience gained repairing the 
infrastructure during 2014 has provided 
sufficient detail on the pipeline condition 
enabling us to delay the line replacement. 
This was originally planned for 2015, 
however, given the current infrastructure 
performance we plan only sectional 
replacements of the line, if required. This has 
allowed the Company to direct the majority 
of its capex programme towards revenue-
generating capex, being the two workover 
wells and two new producing wells.
We are currently completing an evaluation of 
available drilling rigs with a view to completing 
this selection in Q2 2015 with a contract award 
for drilling to commence in Q3 2015.
The re-entry of Ubima 1 well is planned for 
late Q4 2015/early Q1 2016, subject to 
securing the rig contract and completion of 
the subsurface studies.
Health, Safety, Environment and 
Social Responsibility
We, in conjunction with our partners, NPDC 
and All Grace, work closely with our host 
communities and consult with them on all 
major aspects of work we undertake. This 
includes carrying out full risk assessments 
and environmental impact surveys and also 
providing the host communities employment 
opportunities through local contracting. 
This has been successful in Opuama, where 
a number of community contracts have 
been awarded which have contributed to the 
successful production from this field in 2014. 
We have a number of community programmes 
planned in 2015 and 2016, including two water 
wells, a civic centre and hospital all within OML 
40. We currently support some communities 
with power through the use of diesel 
generators. In 2016 we plan to convert these 
to gas-fired generators utilising the gas 
produced at Opuama and further reducing the 
volume of gas flared. These key areas of 
medical care, drinking water and power for 
communities remain our key focus areas in 
addition to creating employment opportunities.
Outlook
In recent times the oil and gas industry has 
faced some significant challenges. In Eland 
we are not immune to these. We have 
focused on our cost base, targeting over 
$8 million of opex and G&A savings within 
2015 alone. We have prepared our work 
programme and budget on the basis of a 
$50/bbl Brent oil price, with a sensitivity at 
$40/bbl. We can maintain our full capex 
work programme at the $50/bbl price deck, 
and to date the majority of our crude oil 
sales in 2015 have been well above this 
price. Our industry is well experienced in 
dealing with oil price fluctuations and this 
experience is key to maintaining a plan to 
ensure a positive contribution from every 
barrel produced. We have excellent assets in 
OML 40 and Ubima which provide an 
incredible growth opportunity, even at 
current oil price levels.
Following the recent approval of transfer of 
operatorship to Elcrest by the DPR, we are in 
discussions with our partner NPDC to assume 
the operatorship of OML 40. This process is 
well underway and we fully expect to 
announce the formal transfer of operatorship, 
through the execution of a new operating 
agreement on OML 40, in the near future.
Eland has come a long way since its 
inception in 2010. I am very excited at the 
opportunity to continue this development 
progress in the coming years.
George Maxwell
Chief Executive Officer
21 May 2015
