 Eland Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 
and Financial Statements 2014
12
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to present 
Eland’s annual report for 
2014 after what has 
been a volatile year for 
the sector but one in 
which we have made 
significant headway.
Following a near halving of the oil price our 
industry is facing major challenges, but I 
remain confident that we have the assets and 
a management team that can deliver value to 
our shareholders. We have continued to 
make good progress on OML 40 and we look 
forward to development drilling later this year.
The focus over the last year has been to 
stabilise production and this has been 
successfully achieved. In December 2014 
production ‘uptime’ was over 90% which 
compares to 6.2% for the first six months of 
production. In 2015 to the end of April, we 
have recorded 100% ‘uptime’ apart from 
short periods when our off-taker Shell 
carried out maintenance work on their 
connected facilities which has taken the 
average to 91%. This accomplishment has 
been achieved by working more effectively 
with the indigenous operator (NPDC) and the 
local communities. We have also secured 
Pioneer Tax Status for OML 40 giving us a 
100% Petroleum Profits tax concession for 
an initial three years with a further two years 
on successful application. This concession 
gives Eland a great incentive to accelerate 
the production revenue from OML 40 which 
is expected to be achieved through drilling 
later this year. We have commenced a 
workover of the shut-in well Opuama 5 
which we expect to add between 400-600 
bopd (gross) to the field’s production. During 
the year we also farmed in to the Ubima field 
(OML 17) which adds a minimum of 13.6 
mmbbls of net 2C resources to our assets 
which we expect to increase as we add 
finance to the operations. We are presently 
undertaking the technical work on the field 
with the intention of drilling in 2016.
At the end of 2014 Eland completed a  
‘Reserve Based Lending’ (RBL) facility of up 
to $75 million – a significant achievement 
given the oil price environment and a vote of 
confidence from Standard Chartered Bank 
in the Company and its assets. $35 million of 
the facility was committed immediately and 
the balance is expected to be syndicated in 
the coming months. The financial 
performance for 2014 (a loss of $16.3 million) 
reflects operating costs associated with the 
start-up of production but also includes oil 
sales of 115,722 bbls which generated $11.7 
million of revenue. With production 
stabilised, and hopefully growing as new 
wells are drilled, we can expect increased 
sales revenues and lower unit operating 
costs for 2015. At the end of 2014 our cash 
and cash equivalents were $15.0 million with 
undrawn bank facilities comprising a $22 
million Bridge loan facility, which was 
subsequently replaced by the RBL.
Harry Wilson
Chairman Strategic Report
Eland Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 
and Financial Statements 2014
13
During 2014 the management team was 
strengthened by the appointment of George 
Maxwell as Chief Executive Officer and 
Louis Castro as Chief Financial Officer. I 
agreed to assume the role of Executive 
Chairman for a temporary period while the 
new team settled in. We have also added to 
the technical team with the appointment of 
John Downey as Chief Technical Officer and 
the recruitment of new technical staff all 
based in Aberdeen. I would like to thank our 
former CEO Les Blair for his contribution to 
the development of Eland over the last four 
years. He remains an adviser to the Group in 
a role where his knowledge of Nigeria and 
energy can add most value. I would also like 
to thank all of our stakeholders for their 
support, particularly the management and 
staff for their hard work over the last year.
Nigeria has the largest oil reserves of all 
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa but is 
significantly under-represented by junior oil 
companies like Eland as the entry hurdles 
are perceived to be too large. We have seen 
an increasing number of indigenous 
companies participating in recent years and 
I believe this trend will continue. Nigeria has 
also just elected a new President and we 
expect this to be positive for the upstream 
sector. Eland is well placed to grow in this 
environment with its experienced 
management and a relatively strong financial 
position. Very recently we have had 
confirmation from the Department of 
Petroleum Resources that Elcrest has met 
all of the obligations required in order to be 
appointed as operator of OML 40. We see 
this as a significant step forward which will 
enable us to accelerate the unlocking of 
value in OML 40. Our plan is to drill at least 
two new wells this year and complete two 
workovers all of which should push 2015 
year-end production up to 12,000 bopd 
(gross). We look forward to being able to 
deliver further positive news on the 
development of OML 40 that shareholders 
are awaiting.
Harry Wilson
Chairman
21 May 2015
“The focus over the 
last year has been to 
stabilise production 
and this has been 
successfully achieved. 
In December 2014 our 
production ‘uptime’ 
was over 90% which 
compares to 6.2% for 
the first six months of 
production.”
Expertise
Experienced management team with 
over 40 years of in-country experience
Track record
A team with a history of success in 
identifying and developing oil and 
gas assets
Fantastic asset
Significant development and exploration 
upside on OML 40 as well as attractive 
growth opportunities in Nigeria
Maximised 
production
Our Business Model
Local footprint
Operational senior management based 
in Nigeria with strong relationships and 
local knowledge
