 Eleco plc 
Report & Accounts 
2010/11 05
John Ketteley
Executive Chairman
“We continued to implement our strategy of 
restructuring and rebalancing our Building 
Systems and Software operations with a  
view to reducing the Group’s risk profile  
and strengthening its financial position.”
In the last six months of the 18 month period ended 31 December 
2011, we continued to implement our strategy of restructuring and 
rebalancing our Building Systems and Software operations with 
a view to reducing the Group’s risk profile and strengthening its 
financial position. Our operating performance also improved and 
in the six month period ended 31 December 2011, our continuing 
operations produced operating profits of £334,000 compared with 
operating losses of £556,000 in the 12 months ended 30 June 2011. 
This has resulted in an operating loss for continuing operations of 
£222,000 after exceptional costs of £365,000, mainly relating to 
restructuring costs, in the period under review. Operating profit 
before exceptional costs amount to £143,000 compared to a loss of 
£3.3m for the 12 months ended 30 June 2010.
In the interim statement for the 12 months ended 30 June 2011, I 
referred to the profits from our software interests being more than 
offset by significantly increased losses of our Precast Concrete 
custodial accommodation and timber frame businesses because 
of a significant reduction in sales and lower margins. We have since 
disposed of Bell & Webster’s precast concrete custodial products 
business based at Hoveringham; we have also disposed of the 
timber frame operations based at Speke; finally, in December 2011, 
we disposed of our remaining Timber Engineering businesses, 
namely Gang-Nail Systems in the United Kingdom and International 
Truss Systems in South Africa.
The purpose and effect of these transactions was to reduce the 
risk profile of our Building Systems interests and to enable us to 
refinance a substantial portion of the trading and exceptional losses 
incurred by Bell & Webster Concrete’s custodial accommodation 
contracts business and by the timber frame manufacturing business.
Eleco is now made up of ElecoSoft
®
 and ElecoBuild
®
ElecoSoft
® 
comprises all our software interests based in Sweden, 
Germany and the United Kingdom. These include the Consultec
®
 
software brand originating in Sweden, the Esign
®
 and Arcon
®
 
software brands originating in Germany, and the Asta software 
brand originating in the United Kingdom.
ElecoBuild
®
 comprises our roofing, cladding and partitioning 
interests, all of which are now based in the United Kingdom and 
include SpeedDeck
®
 Building Systems, Stramit
®
 Panel 
Products and Downer Cladding Systems; together with our 
remaining Precast Concrete interests, namely Bell & Webster 
Concrete and Milbury Systems.
Details of these interests and their respective brands are set out in 
the Operating and Financial Review section of this report.
Continuing Operations Performance Summary
Please bear in mind when reviewing the information contained in 
this statement, that the comparative figures shown are in respect of 
a 12 month period ended 30 June 2010, whereas the figures for the 
period under review are in respect of the 18 month period ended 31 
December 2011.
Turnover of Continuing Operations for the period under review 
amounted to £56.8m; Turnover for the year to 30 June 2010 
amounted to £45.9m.
Operating profit from continuing operations for the period under 
review before exceptional losses amounted to £143,000 (2010  
12 months: loss before exceptional losses £3.3m) and the reported 
loss from operations for the period under review was £222,000 
(2010 12 months: £2.7m). The exceptional costs of £365,000 for 
the period under review mainly relate to redundancy costs from 
business restructuring (2010: £2.8m). The Group’s continuing 
operations sustained a loss before tax in the period under review  
of £930,000 (2010 12 months: £3.2m).
Total Group operating loss for the 18 month period under review of 
£2.7m (2010 12 months: £5.5m), is equivalent to a loss per share of 
4.6p (2010: 9.1p loss per share).
The total reported Group loss includes losses of £4.0m of non-cash 
items including depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets; 
it also includes the benefit of a net gain on disposal of the connector 
plate and timber frame businesses of £5.4m. As a consequence 
total cash outflow overall was limited to £2.2m in the eighteen month 
period under review. It should be noted that £1.2m in connection 
with the sale of our remaining timber engineering businesses was 
also placed in escrow in the period under review.
In the light of the sharp reduction that has occurred for 
ElecoBuild
®
’s Precast Concrete and Building Products interests, 
Eleco has moderated its investment in new capital projects for these 
businesses. Capital investment for the period under review was 
£1.3m (2010 12 months: £1.2m) and we anticipate that this lower 
level of capital investment in our ElecoBuild
®
 interests to continue in 
the current year. However, we expect the development of software 
programs by our ElecoSoft
®
 interests to continue as before.
Chairman’s Statement Eleco plc 
Report & Accounts 
2010/11
06
The actions that the Board undertook during the 18 month period 
under review to maintain the financial stability of the Group in a 
very difficult trading and financial climate gave rise to significant 
additional and unavoidable advisory, legal, banking and other 
professional fees, compared with equivalent costs incurred in the 
year ended 30 June 2011. These costs impacted significantly both 
our trading performance and our cash resources.
Operational Overview
ElecoSoft
®
Our Software businesses performed well and made a positive 
contribution in turnover and profits to the Group in the period 
under review. Turnover amounted to £23.4m in the period under 
review (2010 12 months: £13.7m), and the adjusted operating profit 
amounted to £2.3m (2010 12 months: £0.6m). ElecoSoft
®
 has 
started the current year well.
ElecoBuild
®
Building Products
Our Building Products businesses turnover in the period under 
review amounted to £14.7m (2010 12 months: £8.5m) and the 
adjusted operating profit was £817 ,000 (2010 12 months: loss 
£597,000).
On 19 December 2011 we announced the disposal of the business 
and assets of these businesses to Illinois Toolworks Inc. (“ITW”) 
for a total consideration of £7 .8m, of which £1.2m is currently held 
in escrow. These activities made a profit before tax of £42,000 
in the period under review and their net assets at the date of 
disposal amounted to £1.7m. I would like on your behalf to express 
our thanks to our former colleagues for their efforts and positive 
contribution to Eleco over the years and to wish them well in future 
as part of ITW.
 
ElecoBuild
®
’s Building Products businesses have experienced an 
improving order intake since the beginning of the year, albeit from 
a low base. Improvements in marketing techniques and product 
initiatives are also making a positive impact.
Precast Concrete
Turnover for the period under review was lower at £20.2m (2010: 
£24.7m) and the adjusted operating loss for the period amounted to 
£2.1m (2010 12 months: £2.8m).
Bell & Webster Concrete closed down its custodial contracts 
operations in the period under review and has since disposed of its 
Hoveringham facility; its hotel and student accommodation activities 
also contracted in the period under review due to lower demand. 
However, in the past few weeks it has received an increasing 
number of project enquires, which may be an early indication of a 
potential upturn in demand for its products. That said, management 
are very conscious of the need to contain costs, and in the absence 
of firm orders for its RoomSolutions
TM
 products at acceptable 
margins, that have, in place, contingency plans to reduce still further 
its manufacturing capacity.
Milbury has experienced a reasonable level of orders for its retaining 
walls since the beginning of the year; Bell & Webster Concrete less 
so. Both appear to be benefitting from the withdrawal of a number 
of direct competitors from their market, although the market itself 
remains subdued.
Chairman’s Statement continued
Developing BIM Solutions
Chalmers University of Technology is a highly progressive 
university situated in Gothenburg, Sweden. Chalmers is known 
for research and innovation with a wide range of applications 
including technology in the build environment.
Chalmers is using Consultec ByggProgram’s software as part of 
a research project to produce an integrated Building Information 
Modelling (BIM) solution. This solution is promoted by the University 
as a demonstration model of how BIM can be applied in modern 
day construction. 
Chalmers chose to use Consultec’s BidCon and PlanCon 
software in its BIM courses due to the reputation Consultec  
has within the Swedish construction industry. 
Three courses were conducted at Chalmers during the spring 
semester where students tested the benefits of BIM; outlining the 
process of creating a schedule based on a Building Information 
Model (BIM). The students were taught to create a spreadsheet in 
BidCon, using the calculations with the information in a 3D building 
model to produce a basis for a building schedule. The students 
then used PlanCon to optimise resources for the schedule. 
Students successfully developed a good understanding of the 
linkage between software and how BIM can be used to streamline 
the planning and costing process.
Chalmers University will continue to use BidCon and PlanCon 
within their courses.
For more information about our software 
businesses go to www.elecosoft.com
BIM
Building geometry  
& data Eleco plc 
Report & Accounts 
2010/11 07
Downer Cladding Systems and SpeedDeck Building Systems
Finance
Disposals of assets and businesses, together with a reduction in 
capital expenditure and cash generated from the profitable trading 
of our Software businesses have partially offset the adverse cash 
impact of the poor performance of our concrete and timber frame 
businesses in a very difficult market environment.
As a consequence, the Group was able to restrict its net bank 
borrowings at 31 December 2011 to £4.1m (2010: £1.9m) and as 
noted above, £1.2m of the consideration for the sale of Gang-Nail 
Systems and International Truss Systems is also held in escrow.  
It should also be noted that Group net bank borrowings as at  
29 February 2012 had reduced further to £3.7m (28 February  
2011: £9.3m).
I am pleased to say that our UK bankers, Lloyds Banking Group has 
renewed the Group’s banking facilities with effect from 30 March 
2012 for one year and the Directors are satisfied that the Group 
has sufficient working capital for its present requirements. We 
very much appreciate Lloyds Banking Group’s continued working 
relationship with us in such a difficult trading climate.
Dividends
The Board do not propose to recommend the payment of a 
dividend in respect of the period under review. However, the Board 
has noted the improvement in the Company’s financial position and 
also in the recent performance of its continuing businesses. It will 
in due course consider recommending to its shareholders a return 
to dividend payments as and when the Company’s trading position 
and performance permits.
Employees
Implementing the changes noted above in current markets has 
placed very significant and stressful demands on our employees, 
100 of whom unfortunately became redundant in the period 
under review because of the need to restructure and down size 
some of our Building Systems businesses. Therefore, on behalf of 
shareholders and the Board, I would like to thank all our employees 
for their hard work and dedication during the period under review.
Building on 
technology
Improved Project 
Management and 
Execution
Sustainable
Construction
Modern Methods 
of Construction
Outlook
ElecoSoft
®
 continues to perform well and behind its outstanding 
portfolio of construction software is a highly talented, creative and 
motivated team of software professionals who are engaged on a 
number of exciting opportunities for expansion in the construction 
software space. The challenge for our colleagues in ElecoSoft
®
 in 
the year ahead is to streamline our software businesses, to enhance 
its internal and external initiatives and software development 
collaboration, to bear down on its cost base - and to deliver  
the promise.
Our colleagues involved in our ElecoBuild
®
 businesses have begun 
to apply improved marketing techniques to good effect, which 
has enabled them to recover sales and to put in place a number 
of interesting and creative business initiatives which have already 
resulted in improved performance. ElecoBuild
®
 will continue to 
bear down on costs in the year ahead and may need to consider 
further rationalisation to remain competitive. However, even though 
demand remains weak in certain sectors, and the UK economy 
continues to be fragile, I am confident that our colleagues in 
ElecoBuild
®
 will deal positively with any new challenges faced by 
their businesses as they arise.
Eleco has come through an extraordinarily difficult period this 
past 18 months. However, I am satisfied, that as a consequence 
of the judgements we made and the actions we took to tackle the 
problems we faced, Eleco is now a much better balanced and 
financed Group.
I am confident that Eleco is now well placed to take advantage of 
any improvement in the markets we serve in the year ahead.
John Ketteley
Executive Chairman
30 March 2012 For more information about our software 
businesses go to www.elecosoft.com
Eleco plc 
Report & Accounts 
2010/11
08
Asta Powerproject continues to be 
the Project Management Software of 
choice on many high profile projects 
throughout the World, including:
•	 The Shard, London – an iconic tower 
including 600,000ft of office space, hotel, 
commerce and luxury residential area, is 
destined to become a “vertical city” and 
the tallest building in Western Europe at 
310 metres.
•	 Jumeirah Park, Dubai – a prestigious 
residential and retail destination 
contributing to world class tourism 
opportunities.
•	 Petronas Twin Towers, Malaysia – 
Located in the heart of Kuala Lumpur, the 
88-storey Petronas Twin Towers is the 
crown of the capital city.
•	 Hong Kong International Airport –  
A leader in the world’s aviation industry, 
winning the Skytrax World Airport of the 
Year award in 2011.
•	 The Reichstag Dome, Berlin –  
The Reichstag dome is a glass dome 
constructed on top of the rebuilt Reichstag 
building. Designed by architect Norman 
Foster the distinctive appearance of the 
dome has made it a prominent landmark 
in Berlin.
•	 Christchurch’s infrastructure, New 
Zealand – Christchurch suffering after the 
September 2010 earthquake, the February 
2011 quake and all the aftershocks 
between. Government and volunteers are 
passionately working to see Christchurch 
is rebuilt right. 
Building Information Modelling (BIM) – 
working toward a collaborative future.
Asta Powerproject is being used as a 
planning software tool to develop schedule 
programmes for import into 4D modelling 
software to create 4D BIM (3D CAD + 
Asta Powerproject scheduling). The power 
of visualisation, coordination, simulation 
and optimisation from 3D, 4D, and BIM 
computer technologies allow clients to meet 
customer, design, construction, and program 
requirements more effectively.
Eleco has taken the initial steps in the area of 
BIM by working with leading vendors such as 
Tekla, Synchro, DStudio and Navisworks to 
provide 4D BIM modelling. Such technology 
is already being used to support significant 
construction projects. 
4D BIM improves communication with 
stakeholders by linking the dynamic scene 
with different Asta Powerproject timelines 
and displaying the ongoing consequences 
of building strategies. Any potential issues in 
the construction model, such as structural 
clashes, unsafe work areas and site 
delivery and movement conflicts are quickly 
highlighted before they become a problem, 
which saves considerable time and money. 
3D,4D
Optimisation
