 consistent proﬁt growth would permit 
most of the earnings and cash ﬂow to be
distributed as dividend. Proﬁts have not
developed as expected, particularly in 
the UK and Europe, and in light of the
strategic review the dividend policy has 
been reassessed. 
The Board recognises the importance of
dividends to shareholders and is conﬁdent
that the successful implementation of the
Enterprise Business Systems (EBS),
execution of the strategy and cost reduction
initiatives will signiﬁcantly improve ﬁnancial
performance over the next three years.
Consequently, assuming no substantial
deterioration in economic conditions, the
Board has decided that it should maintain the
current level of dividend during these three
years. To the extent necessary, the strength
of the balance sheet will be used to support
the dividend. 
Our people
Our staff have experienced a demanding
year. The reason that customers place
business with us is service excellence and
this relies on the attention and commitment
of each member of staff. The award received,
Chairman’s Statement
2 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Chairman’s Statement
We remain committed to generating high
returns for shareholders over time as a result 
of past investments and the developments 
now in progress.
Bob Lawson, Chairman
The sales growth experienced in the ﬁrst half
of the year weakened in the second half
which resulted in a small decline in operating
proﬁt for the year of 1.7% to £105.3m from 
a sales increase of 4.5% to £773.9m.
Our view is that our markets,
particularly in Europe, have become
markedly more difﬁcult. Your Group will
therefore increasingly focus on serving the
small quantity needs of the electronics
engineer together with a broad offer for other
engineering disciplines. Our market position
in the electronics sector globally is our core
strength as reﬂected by the Distributor of 
the Year award. However we can exploit 
this strength to a much greater extent as, 
I believe, will be demonstrated during the
coming years.
Dividend
The Board recommends that the ﬁnal dividend
per share for the year be the same as last
year (1 2.6p) to give 18.4p for the full year, 
an increase of 1.1%. 
Dividend growth in recent years has
been based on our view that the high cash
generation of the Group, the strong balance
sheet and the expectation of reasonably
WHERE WE ARE,
WORLDWIDE
RS BUSINESSES:
United Kingdom
Rest of Europe
France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Spain, 
Republic of Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, 
The Netherlands, Belgium
Japan
Rest of World
Australia, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, 
South Africa, T aiwan, Malaysia, New Zealand, 
The Philippines, India, Chile
ALLIED ELECTRONICS:
North America
United States
Canada
Our Group comprises the RS
companies in 24 countries
and Allied in the United
States and Canada.  conﬁrmed by independent market research,
conﬁrms that all our people execute their
roles supremely well resulting in the service
being second to none. I am particularly
pleased that these service standards have
been maintained whilst either preparing for
or installing major system changes in many
of our major markets.
On behalf of the Board I would like to
thank each person for their contribution.
As announced on March 22nd, Jeff
Hewitt, the Group Finance Director, wishes 
to seek early retirement from the Board 
in order to develop his career beyond
executive duties.
Jeff has been Finance Director for nine
years and has played a major role in all the
Group activities from being active in strategy
execution to Y2K and the launch of the Euro.
Latterly, Jeff has played a leading role in the
development of the Groupwide Enterprise
Business Systems together with strengthening
and developing the ﬁnancial management
and investor relations activity of the Group.
Jeff has been a tremendous colleague,
catalyst and mentor to all in the Group who
have had the pleasure of working with him,
and we wish him continued success in his
new career direction.
Our search for Jeff’s replacement has
been successful, and I am delighted to
announce that Simon Boddie, Finance
Director of Key Markets for Diageo, will be
joining us on 1 July. Simon brings much
relevant experience, particularly of rapidly
changing international markets, which will be
of direct beneﬁt to the Group. Jeff will be
staying with the Group to ensure a
comprehensive handover to Simon.
It is also a great pleasure to welcome
Kevin Abbott to the Board. Kevin is CEO of
Alpha Airports and not only brings current
experience of a demanding service industry
but also a breadth of relevant international
knowledge. In the short time that Kevin 
has been on the Board, he has made 
a signiﬁcant contribution.
Governance
The Board has met 1 2 times during the year
and also visited the UK operations. In
addition, a two-day strategic review was held,
at which Regional Managers presented their
plans and priorities were agreed.
Current trading and outlook
The Board is intent on delivering a sustainable
and growing proﬁt stream. We are
announcing the next stage of the Group’s
development which will achieve the Board’s
objectives by focusing on the key customer
groups in each market served and reducing
costs. A key enabler is the Enterprise
Business System, and its implementation this
year in the UK is a major task. The Group does
have a track record of executing change well.
Since the year end, trading has
remained strong in North America, Asia,
Japan and the smaller European markets but
it has continued to be depressed in the UK
and our main European markets. The leading
indicators suggest a difﬁcult trading
environment in most of our markets and 
so we remain cautious on the outlook for 
the coming year.
We remain committed to generating
high returns for shareholders over time as 
a result of past investments and the
developments now in progress.
Bob Lawson
Chairman
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
Chairman’s Statement
Operating companies
Distributor network
Export only markets
GLOBAL OPERATIONS AS % OF TOTAL GLOBAL GDP
Our operating companies cover 82% of
Global GDP and we believe that further
scope for growth exists.
