 Overview
During the year, the Group has undertaken a
review of its strategy. Over the past ﬁve
years, while the Group has continued to
generate high returns, overall proﬁts have
remained essentially ﬂat. This has been
caused by a combination of a lack of overall
sales growth and higher costs to build our
global infrastructure. The continued decline
of RSUK and ﬂat sales in our main European
markets of France, Germany and Italy have
constrained Group sales – other markets
have shown good growth. Enterprise
Business System (EBS) implementation
costs and our investments considerably
ahead of growth have signiﬁcantly increased
our infrastructure costs. Comprehensive
customer research to understand how to
accelerate sales growth and a review of the
costs to complete, leverage and reduce our
future infrastructure costs was undertaken.
The Group Strategy has evolved accordingly.
Customer research
Customer research in the UK and Europe
generated a consistent picture across
markets. Customers view the RS brand and
service very positively, however, the
competitiveness of our broad offer has
declined as local wholesalers, in particular,
have improved their service. A better
understanding of our market position has led
us to focus on areas of competitive strength
and develop programmes to improve the
competitiveness of our offer in these areas.
Electronic and 
Electromechanical (EEM)
The Group is a primary supplier of EEM products
to R&D and maintenance engineers around the
world. These are the products and customers
our businesses were built on. Customers
recognise the Group as a leader in this
market and the catalogue is the established
primary channel to market. However, the
competitiveness of our offer has declined as we
have focused on developing other technologies
and competitors have improved their offers.
Improving the competitiveness of our EEM offer
will drive faster sales growth through the
protection of existing business from
competitive threat, and the leveraging of the
improved global offer throughout the Group. We
have considerable strength to build upon. The
EEM market available to catalogue distribution
is growing and the Group has a low share.
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
The strategy of the Group is evolving. By focusing
on our core strengths in the EEM market we
believe we can achieve higher sales growth and
maintain high returns.
Ian Mason, Chief Executive
• with our Electronic and
Electromechanical offer
• in making our offer even 
more convenient; and
• by meeting their urgent
requirements
OUR REFOCUSED STRATEGY
WILL ENSURE WE MEET OUR
CUSTOMER NEEDS: A 10 point plan is being implemented to
improve our EEM offer. Key to this plan are
focus, improving the quality of our product
range and leveraging e-Commerce to reduce
our cost, risk and time to market. Much
greater product ranges will be made available
from key brands, and Allied products will be
made available to RS businesses.
Convenient and Urgent (C&U)
The Group drives signiﬁcant revenue from
customers who value convenience (one-
stop-shop) or have an urgent product need
(“can’t ﬁnd it”). The customer research
highlighted that local wholesalers are the
main competition in providing these needs
and that their service has improved.
Our offer will be optimised to more
effectively meet the convenience and urgent
product needs of customers. Key to this is
improving the value of the offer. Speciﬁc
opportunities to drive faster C&U growth will
be exploited, including: large accounts;
process control and automation; and local
presence strategies. The product range will
be optimised and the cost to serve reduced.
Competitiveness
As well as focusing on the EEM and C&U market
segments, actions are being undertaken, in
response to the customer research, to improve
the general competitiveness of the Group
through improving our price perception,
increasing our ﬂexibility in meeting customers’
needs, greater leverage of e-Commerce and
improving our Sales and Marketing effectiveness.
These actions will improve competitiveness
and help drive faster sales growth.
Geographic portfolio strategy 
Our businesses around the world will be
managed differently depending on their
stage of development and scale of growth
opportunity. Our UK and main European
market businesses need to perform. We will
continue to invest to develop the massive
market potentials in the US, China and 
Japan where we have strong established
businesses. The smaller markets will be 
free to develop their potential through the
continuation of their existing high growth.
The primary focus of the strategy is creating
and deploying a world-class EEM offer
through all businesses.
Infrastructure
The business is heavily engaged in
implementing EBS as the ﬁnal piece of our
global infrastructure. EBS will provide the
future operating platform of the Group and
enables future beneﬁts and cost reduction. It
is a massive project that is having a signiﬁcant
impact on the business – cost and distraction/
disruption – however, our conﬁdence is high
for a successful implementation. A fuller report
on the EBS project is included in the Operating
and Financial Review.
Plans are being developed to create a
lower cost business model over time
following the successful implementation of
EBS in the UK geography. Implementation of
the revised strategy will drive higher sales
growth and generate scale economies; EBS
implementation costs will be removed and
beneﬁts generated; and new approaches to
our main cost drivers are being planned. 
In the two years following the
implementation of EBS in the UK, the
operating costs of the Group business model
will be substantially lower.
Financial consequences
We believe the actions we are taking will lead
to a substantial improvement in the Group’s
medium term ﬁnancial performance.
The operating proﬁt impact of the EBS
implementation will peak over the next two
years and will then reduce signiﬁcantly due 
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
Chief Executive’s Review
to reduced costs and to beneﬁts realisation. The
cash ﬂow impact peaks next year and then will
improve considerably as depreciation replaces
capital expenditure and cost. The successful
implementation of EBS will also enable the
strategy and other cost reduction initiatives.
We estimate that the refocusing of the
strategy on EEM and C&U markets should
generate £20-25m of additional proﬁts
annually within three years. Higher sales
growth at reasonable margins and
economies of scale from leveraging the
infrastructure will all contribute to the
improvement in proﬁtability.
Annual cost savings of £10- 15m will be
sought within the same time period from
simplifying the business structure consistent
with the strategy and the capabilities provided
by EBS. One-off costs will be incurred to make
these changes, probably over the next two
years, however it is premature to determine
the scale of these costs.
Cash ﬂow will beneﬁt from the higher
proﬁts and working capital efﬁciencies.
Summary
The strategy of the Group is evolving. By
focusing on our core strengths in the EEM
market we believe we can achieve higher
sales growth and maintain high returns. The
implementation of EBS will complete our
infrastructure build and we are conﬁdent 
of success and of subsequently migrating 
to a lower cost business model.
Ian Mason
Chief Executive
The redesigned catalogue makes it easier for our
customers to quickly ﬁnd the products they need
