 Introduction
This has been a year of good progress. The
implementation of the strategy continues with
good signs of success in both our electronic and
electromechanical (EEM) and maintenance,
repair and operations (MRO) businesses and
resultant strong sales growth. The Enterprise
Business System (EBS) was implemented
successfully during the ﬁnancial year in Austria,
Italy and Germany and since the year end in
Benelux, Ireland, Scandinavia and Spain. It now
supports all the UK and European businesses.
The work to create a lower cost infrastructure
has progressed well, including the move to a
new head ofﬁce, and has achieved £7 .6m of
annualised cost savings.
Overall, headline proﬁt increased by 16% to
£84m supported by sustained sales growth
across the Group, gross margin stabilisation 
and tight control of costs.
Strategic Development
The strategy development is now delivering
tangible beneﬁts with the launch of extended
ranges and leading edge products, a more
ﬂexible service offer and more competitive
pricing to meet customer requirements. This 
has been supported by more customer-speciﬁc
selling and marketing activities.
Dividend
The Board announced in 2005 that it would
maintain the dividend for the following three
years, assuming no substantial deterioration 
in economic conditions. Accordingly, the
dividend will be maintained at 18.4p per share
for the full year, being year two of this three
year period. 
Our people
The business has had another very busy year.
Revenue and proﬁt growth has been achieved 
at the same time as the further roll out of EBS.
This has been made possible as a result of the
commitment and skill of all our people. On
behalf of the Board, I thank everyone for 
their hard work.
As previously announced, Bob Lawson retired
as Chairman in October 2006. Bob made an
enormous contribution to Electrocomponents
over his 26 years with the Group. In many ways
Bob has been the architect of the Group as it
now stands. In particular, he rolled out the RS
concept internationally and this now comprises
more than £500m (nearly 60%) of the Group’s
total revenue. I have appreciated enormously
Bob’s support in his handover to me and we all
wish him well in the future.
Nick Temple will be retiring at the Annual General
Meeting after 10 years on the Board. We thank
Nick for his valuable contribution, particularly in
the ﬁeld of technology and e-Commerce, which
has become a major channel for our business.
We wish him well for the future.
Tim Barker, who has been a Non-Executive
Director of the Company for seven years, will
replace Nick Temple as Senior Independent
Director at the Annual General Meeting.
Rupert Soames has been appointed to the Board
as a Non-Executive Director. Rupert is currently
CEO of Aggreko plc, the global leader in the rental
of power, temperature control and oil-free
compressed air systems. He has signiﬁcant
relevant international, high service and
information systems experience and we
welcome him to the Group.
Current Trading
Since the year end the Group has successfully
completed the EBS roll out across Europe.
Group revenue has grown at around 6% with 
an improving performance during May. The
International business has grown revenue at
around 10% and the UK business has grown 
at around 2%.
Helmut Mamsch
Chairman
2 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s Statement >
Helmut Mamsch
Chairman
We are the world’s largest industrial
electronics catalogue distributor.
