 Overview
In May 2005, we committed to a plan to improve
the ﬁnancial performance of the Group
signiﬁcantly. The plan had three main elements:
> Focus separately on two distinct customer
groups: Electronic and Electromechanical
(EEM) and Maintenance, Repair and
Operations (MRO)
> Implement the Enterprise Business 
System (EBS)
> Create a lower cost infrastructure 
This year has seen a step change in the 
delivery of each element of the plan which 
has consequently resulted in strong sales and
proﬁt growth. The two infrastructure elements 
of our plan are largely done. The roll out of EBS
in Europe is now complete and three quarters of
the targeted cost savings have been achieved,
with the remainder well in hand. Our focus is on
our customers and continuing to build on the
enthusiastic response we have had to our
improved EEM and MRO offers.
Electronic and Electromechanical (EEM)
Our EEM customers are primarily involved in
electronics design and pre and low volume
electronics production. Strong electronics
market growth, technology proliferation and
R&D investment make this an attractive and
growing segment to serve, and catalogue-based
distribution is the customers’ preferred channel.
Their primary need is access to as broad, deep
and innovative a product range as possible.
During the year, we have updated our EEM
product range: 100,000 extended range
products have been made available over the
web from our North American and Japanese
offers; complete ranges of leading edge
technologies have been launched (wireless and
displays, solid state lighting, power supplies,
embedded computing) and the current product
ranges have been refreshed and increased in
depth. We have improved our EEM offer
promotion to make it more targeted and
relevant to design engineers and done much
more joint supplier promotion to leverage our
relationships with strong brands. All of these
initiatives are generating signiﬁcant incremental
revenue and re-establishing the Group as the
leading EEM distributor. As well as continuing 
to develop our product range, new tools and
ﬂexible packaging options are being developed
to better serve these customers’ needs.
Maintenance, Repair & Operations (MRO)
Within MRO there is an important customer
segment involved in factory automation that
primarily uses process control and automation
(PCA) products. Both the MRO and PCA
segments have been buoyant due to the
improved outlook for manufacturing and
increased use of automation in the workplace.
Within Europe, an extended range of products
from four leading PCA suppliers has been 
offered over the web and sales and marketing
resources, including technology-speciﬁc
discounts, have been more targeted at factory
automation customers. As a result, PCA is
growing strongly across Europe. The proﬁtability
of the MRO product ranges has been improved
through range rationalisation, increasing use of
own brand and better buying, with contribution
growing faster than sales. These successful
initiatives will be scaled up in the coming year 
to further improve proﬁtability. 
Customer Research
Customer research in the UK (soon to be
completed in Europe) has demonstrated
considerable improvements in customer
perceptions across all service measures and
value for money relative to competition. The
actions we have taken on price and customer
discounts have been recognised by the 
customer. Our businesses have clearly become
more competitive in meeting customers’ needs
and will continue to do so. 
Summary
The Group’s strategy is clear and its
implementation is leading to strong sales 
and proﬁt growth. The necessary infrastructure
projects are largely behind us, and much
preparatory work has been done to enable
delivery of the strategy. We will focus on further
improving our customer offers to drive growth
as well as maintaining our control of costs.
While there is much hard work still to do, clear
plans are in place and the forthcoming year 
will be another of further progress. 
Ian Mason
Group Chief Executive
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
Chief Executive’s Review >
Ian Mason
Group Chief Executive
