 12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
“ This has been a year 
of significant change 
for the Group. We 
implemented a new 
global operating 
model and evol ved 
to a common global 
strategy. These 
developments 
will enable us 
to strengthen 
our competitive 
advantages and 
increase the rate at 
which we gain share 
from our numerous 
smaller competitors”
Group Chief Executive s review
GO ING 
  13  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
MARKET OVERVIEW AND MARKET ENVIRONMENT
Market overview
The high service distribution market caters to the small quantity 
needs of electronics and maintenance engineers and machine and 
panel builders. Our average customer order value is around £140, 
and this order is typically for three to four individual product lines.
A customer will usually order different product lines each time rather 
than make repeat orders of the same products. Demand is similar 
across the world – customers want a broad range of high quality 
stocked products in small quantities with reliable delivery. The internet 
has become the dominant channel for customers to do business 
with us, though providing a multi-channel service remains important 
as many customers still prefer to use a catalogue and phone or fax 
to place orders, often in conjunction with the internet.
We estimate that the available market is worth around £30 billion 
globally, split evenly between electronics and maintenance products. 
The electronics market has, on average, grown at around twice the 
rate of GDP . The electronics cycle is more volatile than the economic 
cycle because spending on new technology innovation can be quickly 
halted and then re-started, as occurred during the last year. The 
maintenance market grows at around GDP but is less volatile than 
the electronics market. 
The marketplace serving this demand is highly fragmented, being 
populated by a large number of small local and regional distributors. 
Electrocomponents, through its brands RS Components (RS) and 
Allied Electronics (Allied), is the world’s leading high service 
distributor. RS is the leading distributor in the UK, Continental Europe 
and Asia Paciﬁ c, while Allied is in the top three in North America. 
There are ﬁ ve large international high service distributors, including 
Electrocomponents, and together this group has around 15% of 
the available global market; as the leading player, our market share 
is around 4%. This group has been gaining market share from 
smaller distributors. Over the last seven years we have grown our 
International sales by an average of 6% per annum. We estimate that 
the markets in which we operate have grown on average at 3% per 
annum. The remaining 3% per annum of sales growth represents 
market share gains, principally from smaller competitors.
We believe that our customer proposition and global scale and reach 
give us an advantage over the numerous small local and regional 
distributors against whom we primarily compete, allowing us to take 
market share from them. Moreover, many of our smaller competitors 
ﬁ nd it difﬁ cult to obtain credit in tough economic times and therefore 
cannot develop their product range or eCommerce capabilities, 
creating an opportunity for large global competitors such as 
ourselves to gain share.
Market environment
The market environment during the past year was challenging, 
reﬂ ecting the uncertain economic conditions in many of our larger 
markets across Europe, North America and Asia Paciﬁ c. 
The manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs) in all of 
our major markets except the US were at readings at or below 
50 for much of the year. This is indicative of a ﬂ at or contracting 
manufacturing sector in these countries and led to a challenging 
environment in which to sell maintenance products. Despite this 
our maintenance sales grew by 3% in the year, which we believe 
outperformed the maintenance market as a whole.
Trade associations from the electronics distribution industry, such as 
the Association of Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components 
(AFDEC) and the National Electronic Distributors Association (NEDA), 
reported declining activity levels from their members during the year. 
The volume electronics distributors have also reported signiﬁ cant 
declines in sales during 2012. Within that context, we believe our 
electronics sales decline of 2% indicates that we have outperformed 
the electronics distribution market as a whole.
Whilst we believe that we have taken market share during the year, 
the difﬁ cult trading environment at this point in the economic cycle 
resulted in a greater use of discounting in order to retain and attract 
customers, particularly in the ﬁ rst half of the year when our gross 
margin reduced by over 1% point. As expected, our gross margin 
improved during the second half of the year, with the rate of decline 
reducing to 0.3% points, reﬂ ecting the actions we took to improve 
our discount effectiveness and the initial rollout of a targeted price 
differentiation strategy. 
 
MARKET SHARE
Electrocomponents 
International competitor 1
International competitor 2
International competitor 3
International competitor 4
Small local/regional competitors
INTERNATIONAL SALES CAGR Development, 2006 – 2013
Market
growth
Share
gains
Sales
CAGR
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
3%
3%
6%
Nominal GDP growth weighted to Electrocomponents geographic split
Weighted for exposure to faster electronics growth
c.£30bn market size 14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
STRATEGY UPDATE 
Building on our proven 2006 strategy
In 2006 we established a strategy focused on ﬁ ve key initiatives. 
Since then we have invested behind this strategy and transformed the 
Group, increasing sales by over £400 million. We have now identiﬁ ed 
clear opportunities to build on these initiatives to deliver further 
progress and improve our ﬁ nancial performance.
International growth: Our International business has delivered 6% per 
annum sales growth since 2006 and taken market share. We have 
identiﬁ ed opportunities to gain market share faster by adopting a 
single global approach to serving our core customer groups.
Develop two strong offers: We have built a strong electronics offer 
through investment in over 100,000 new products since 2006. We 
also delivered good growth from our maintenance offer, particularly 
automation & control. We have an opportunity to grow faster and 
more efﬁ ciently by creating a single global offer. 
Exploit eCommerce: eCommerce is at the heart of our multi-channel 
marketing approach. It has grown four times as fast as the Group over 
the past seven years, growing its share of our business from 25% 
to 56%. We have identiﬁ ed opportunities to grow faster by creating a 
global eCommerce ‘machine’ to acquire and develop new customers 
and deploying our highly skilled sales force to better manage the 
customer life cycle.
Deliver operating leverage: Operating leverage has been delivered 
through economies of scale and improved cost efﬁ ciency, offset by 
lower gross margin due to price repositioning and mix. We have 
identiﬁ ed an opportunity to continue to deliver operating leverage and 
partially mitigate gross margin pressure through a global pricing strategy.
Maintain UK proﬁ tability: Our UK business has delivered 1% sales 
and contribution growth since 2006. We have identiﬁ ed an opportunity 
to grow sales in line with the market whilst maintaining high 
proﬁ tability by adopting a single global approach to serving our 
core customer groups.
Evolving to a common global strategy
Since 2006 it has become increasingly evident that there are clear 
beneﬁ ts to being a large, global competitor in this marketplace. 
Customer needs are similar everywhere, leading suppliers in our 
industry are global and the internet enables global marketing. We 
have the global footprint, relationships with suppliers and eCommerce 
capabilities to take advantage of these trends. Moreover, our 
experience since 2010 of managing our European business as a single 
region has demonstrated the effectiveness of a common strategy, as 
Europe has delivered an average of 10% per annum underlying sales 
growth since then, signiﬁ cantly ahead of the underlying market growth.
Following an extensive review of how to maximise our ability to 
capture the beneﬁ ts of being a large, global company we have, during 
the last year, transitioned from a country-based structure to a global 
operating model that is functionally-based but which retains the value 
of a local sales presence. This comprises three operational functions 
– Sales, Marketing and Offer (comprising the Group’s product and 
stock management, pricing and supply chain activities), and four 
support functions – Strategy, IT , Finance and HR. Each function is 
being run by an existing member of our highly-experienced 
management team. This move to a global operating model involved 
the removal of some duplication within the business and has 
delivered annualised efﬁ ciencies of £7 million.
The new global operating model has enabled us to evolve to a 
common global strategy. We believe that this will allow us to capture 
the signiﬁ cant opportunities identiﬁ ed above to build on our 2006 
strategy. This global strategy comprises seven strategic priorities, with 
four key growth initiatives supported by three enablers. These seven 
strategic priorities, described overleaf, are supported by additional 
investment that will be funded from our existing cash ﬂ ows. We will 
be investing an additional £15 million per annum in capital expenditure 
over the next ﬁ ve years, over and above our historical run-rate of 
£25 million per annum, with this incremental investment focused 
on our growth initiatives. We believe that the global organisation and 
strategy will enable us to extend our advantages over our numerous 
smaller competitors and accelerate the rate at which we gain market 
share in fragmented markets over the medium term.
MEDIUM-TERM PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK 
Following the evolution of our strategy we have reviewed our 
medium-term performance framework. The new global strategy 
is expected to deliver improved medium-term ﬁ nancial performance 
as highlighted in the table above.
Higher sales growth
We are targeting an average Group sales growth rate of 5% to 8% 
per annum through the cycle. This represents a signiﬁ cant 
improvement over our historical average Group sales growth 
performance of 4% per annum.
Whilst we expect the global economic outlook to remain challenging, 
our global strategy is expected to enable us to accelerate the rate at 
which we gain share in our international markets. During the past 
seven years share gains have contributed around half of the 6% per 
annum International sales growth. Going forward we expect share 
gains to be a greater contributor to sales growth, enabling us to reach 
the upper end of our 7% to 10% per annum International sales 
growth target. With an extensive footprint of 17 distribution centres 
around the world we have the capacity to achieve this sales growth 
from our existing distribution network.
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Medium-term performance framework: key performance indicators
Historic Performance
1
2013 Actual Medium-term Target
Group sales growth
2
4% pa 0.5% 5% – 8% pa
Group return on sales
3
7% – 10%
4
8.4% 9% – 11%
Return on capital employed
3,5
15% – 25% 19.3% 20% – 30%
Free cash ﬂ ow as a % of sales
3
3% – 8% 4.5% 4% – 6%
1 Performance between 2006 and 2013
2 Underlying sales growth, adjusting for trading days and currency movements
3 These are headline measures of proﬁ tability and cash ﬂ ow which are deﬁ ned as the relevant reported proﬁ t/cash ﬂ ow before reorganisation costs/cash ﬂ ow
4 Reported Group return on sales adjusted to reﬂ ect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix
5 Headline operating proﬁ t expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt 15  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
We are raising our ambitions for the UK business, targeting an 
average of 1% to 2% per annum sales and contribution growth rather 
than seeking to maintain contribution. This improved outlook is based 
on our experience of the last seven years, when the UK has delivered 
sales growth of 1% per annum, combined with our belief that the UK 
manufacturing sector now provides a more stable trading 
environment than it did a decade ago. 
Improved proﬁ tability and returns on capital employed
Sales growth will remain the key driver of operating leverage, 
augmented by process cost leverage and efﬁ ciencies from our move 
to a global operating model. Over the medium term we expect that 
gross margins will reduce by around 2% points as we grow faster in 
lower-margin technologies and countries. Our global pricing strategy 
will enable us to capture more value and partially mitigate the 
investment in margin we will make to improve our value for money 
proposition to customers.
These cost and gross margin actions are expected to result in a 
medium-term Group operating margin range of between 9% and 
11%. This is an improvement on our historical performance of 7% 
to 10%, adjusted to reﬂ ect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix.
Over the past seven years the Group’s return on capital employed 
(including goodwill) has ranged between 15% and 25%, signiﬁ cantly 
above the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. We are targeting 
to raise this range to between 20% and 30% as the beneﬁ ts of faster 
sales growth and continued strong cash ﬂ ow generation are realised.
Strong free cash ﬂ ow enabling dividend growth
Our global strategy is being supported by additional investment. 
Combined with a slight improvement in stock turns and improved 
proﬁ tability we are targeting medium-term Group headline free cash 
ﬂ ow to sales to range between 4% and 6%.
The Group’s free cash ﬂ ow should enable the Board to maintain and 
grow the dividend over the medium term. As previously indicated, 
over time and as earnings increase, the Board intends to pursue a 
progressive dividend policy whilst increasing headline earnings 
dividend cover towards two times.
Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive
23 May 2013 To watch Ian’s video interview visit: 
www.electrocomponents.com
“ there are clear benefits 
to being a large, global 
competitor in this 
marketplace. we are 
well placed to capture 
these benefits and 
extend our advantages 
over our numerous 
smaller competitors”
WATCH IAN’S VIDEO INTERVIEW ONLINE
GROUP RETURN ON SALES
1
8. 4%
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
1
19 . 3%
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
1 Headline operating proﬁ t expressed as a percentage of sales 1 Headline operating proﬁ t expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt
