 10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s report
EMBRA CING 
am delighted to have resumed my responsibilities as 
Chairman of Electrocomponents during the year, and on 
behalf of the Board I would like to thank Rupert Soames 
for taking on the role of Acting Chairman in my absence and all 
my colleagues for their understanding and support. 
It is an exciting time for me to resume my chairmanship of the Group. 
During the past year the business has made signiﬁ cant changes to 
its strategy to achieve outperformance and has carried out a major 
reorganisation to deliver this strategy. These steps have been taken 
from a position of strength and have been implemented smoothly 
and effectively. 
Organisation, strategy and performance framework 
There are clear beneﬁ ts to being a large, global competitor in the 
high service distribution marketplace and with our scale, customer 
proposition and global reach we are well placed to take advantage 
of the structural trends to globalisation. 
Following an extensive review of how to maximise our ability to 
capture these beneﬁ ts, and building on the successful regionalisation 
of our European businesses, we have, during the last year, developed 
and implemented a new global operating model. This resulted in the 
transition of our organisation structure from a country-based structure 
to a new functionally-based structure. Whilst it has involved the 
removal of some duplication within the business and driven greater 
efﬁ ciencies, its primary beneﬁ t is to enable us to evolve to a common 
global strategy which is designed to grow our market share faster 
and improve our ﬁ nancial performance over the medium term.
This new strategy is based around seven strategic priorities (covered 
in more detail in the Group Chief Executive’s review). This strategy 
will be supported by additional investment over the next ﬁ ve years, 
which will be funded from operational cash ﬂ ows and focused on our 
growth initiatives. The strategy, supported by a new organisation and 
additional investment, is expected to deliver an improvement in the 
Group’s ﬁ nancial performance. Our new medium-term performance 
framework is set out on page 14 in the Group Chief Executive’s 
review. Its principal components include a higher rate of share gains 
in our international markets, growth rather than stability from our 
UK business, and continued operating leverage. 
“ the business has made 
significant changes to its 
strategy and organisation 
to achieve outperformance”
I 11  Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report: Business review 
11 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate responsibility
As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate responsibility is an 
integral part of our business. As our business has evolved so has our 
commitment to sound corporate responsibility policies and practices 
across the globe. Following the reorganisation of our business in 
2012, we are working together to share and embed best practice 
across all of our markets. In particular, our people are our greatest 
asset and keeping them safe and healthy is of paramount importance. 
Target Zero, our health and safety campaign launched in 2011 in the 
UK, has now been rolled out internationally with encouraging results; 
the total amount of lost time due to accidents across the Group has 
decreased by almost 50% over the prior year.
Employees
On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my sincere thanks to all our 
colleagues across the Group for their support through what has been 
a very challenging year. I am particularly grateful for their continued 
focus on business performance at a time of great personal insecurity 
for many. The Group’s ﬁ nancial performance could not be achieved 
without committed, dedicated employees, and I would like to thank 
all of them for their part in delivering these results and embracing 
so enthusiastically the changes that we are making to the business.
Peter Johnson, Chairman
23 May 2013
Trading performance
Against the backdrop of very challenging trading conditions across 
almost all of the Group’s markets underlying sales grew by 1% over 
the prior year, with Group reported sales of £1,236 million. 
Maintenance sales grew by 3%, offset by a 2% decline in electronics 
sales, though this latter product category outperformed a tough 
electronics market. The transformation of Electrocomponents into a 
primarily online business continued with eCommerce sales growing 
by 4%. eCommerce represented 56% of sales during the year, 
continuing on the path towards our medium-term target of 70%.
Highlighting the operational leverage inherent in our business, headline 
proﬁ t before tax declined by 19% to £99 million. This reﬂ ected a decline 
in gross margin of 0.8% points and operating cost growth of 2% at 
constant currency, together with a £10 million impact due to fewer 
trading days and currency movements.
The Group’s cash-generative qualities remain evident, as headline free 
cash ﬂ ow increased by 6% to £56.1 million despite the 19% decline in 
headline proﬁ t before tax. This resulted in a return on capital employed 
of 19.3%, signiﬁ cantly ahead of the Group’s cost of capital. The Group 
retains a strong ﬁ nancial position, with funding in place through to 
2015 and signiﬁ cant headroom to the Group’s banking covenants.
Dividend
The Board is proposing an unchanged ﬁ nal dividend for the year of 
6.75 pence per share. This will be paid on 22 July 2013 to shareholders 
on the register on 21 June 2013. As a result, the total dividend for 
the ﬁ nancial year will be 11 .75 pence per share, resulting in headline 
earnings cover of 1 .3 times.
The Board believes that the business has signiﬁ cant opportunities to 
invest for growth at attractive returns, as illustrated by the investment 
planned to support the Group’s new medium-term business plan. The 
Group’s free cash ﬂ ow should enable the Board to maintain and grow 
the dividend over the medium term. As previously indicated, over time 
and as earnings increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive 
dividend policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover 
towards two times. 
Board changes
Electrocomponents has a strong and effective Board with a clear view 
of its own role and purpose. I am delighted that during the year we 
have been able to further strengthen the Board. On 1 January 2013 
Karen Guerra and John Pattullo joined the Board as Non-Executive 
Directors, bringing with them a broad range of international business 
experience and, respectively, strong backgrounds in marketing and 
supply chain management. 
I am conﬁ dent that both have the necessary skills to help support 
the Group’s strategy and ongoing development.
