 14
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Group Chief 
Executive’s Review
Market environment
The market environment improved as the year progressed. 
This was reflected in the Group’s sales growth rates, which 
improved from 1% in the first half (on a day-adjusted, 
constant currency basis) to 3% during the second half. This 
improvement did not occur in a consistent manner. After a 
step-up in sales growth rates in the autumn, growth faltered 
during December and January (these months were noticeably 
impacted by severe weather conditions in North America 
which kept many of our customers away from their workplace) 
before another step-up was seen in February and March. 
The most important indicator of our market conditions remains 
the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs). In the 
early part of the year the PMIs in the UK, Europe and Japan 
improved to a reading above 50, which is indicative of a return 
to growth in the manufacturing sector in these countries. In 
the US and China the PMIs have been relatively stable, with 
the US reading slightly above 50 and China reading around 50 
for most of the year. We believe that the Group’s improved 
sales growth performance in the second half of the year in 
part reflects this more favourable PMI backdrop.
Trade associations from within the electronics distribution 
industry, such as the Association of Franchised Distributors 
of Electronic Components (AFDEC) and National Electronic 
Distributors Association (NEDA), have reported improving 
activity levels from their members during the year. In addition, 
the large volume electronics distributors have reported a 
return to sales growth during the year and improving order 
book trends. This more favourable electronics environment 
has also begun to feed through to our business, with our 
electronics product categories, an important part of our 
Famous For product range, showing a return to sales growth 
of 3% in the year, having been in slight decline for much of 
the past two years.
Whilst our market backdrop is more robust than it was a 
year ago it remains difficult to predict future sales growth, 
particularly given our limited order book visibility.
International share gains and margin expansion
During the year the International business grew sales by 4% 
(on a day-adjusted, constant currency basis). Whilst there 
has been a more favourable market backdrop as the year has 
progressed we have supplemented this by taking market 
share from the numerous small distributors against whom we 
primarily compete. 
Within the International business the share gains have been 
greatest in our Continental Europe region. This partly reflects 
the fact that many of our smaller competitors in this region 
have found it difficult to obtain credit for several years now 
and therefore they have not been able to significantly invest 
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
>  1 million
 customers
Global Market 
Circa £30 billion
Electrocomponents 
leading distributor
See page 08 for 
Marketplace
Market environment
Opportunity to take a larger share of growing markets
FUTURE
NOW
Reaching c. 90% of global GDP
Group sales growth
2.1% 
(20 13: 0.5%)
See page 20 for 
Key Performance Indicators Our Business
15
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
in their product range, website or sales capabilities. This has 
created an opportunity for the larger global competitors, such 
as Electrocomponents, to gain market share by continuing 
to invest in these areas to enhance their service levels. 
Continental Europe is also the region where the Group has 
made the greatest progress in implementing the new global 
strategy, particularly with regards to the sharing and rolling out 
of global best practice in sales and marketing. The progress 
we have made implementing our new global strategy is 
discussed further below.
When we introduced our global strategy last year we 
highlighted that during the period 2006 to 2013 around half 
of the 6% compound annual growth rate achieved by our 
International business was generated by share gains, with the 
other half coming from market growth. Our global strategy, 
introduced last year, is seeking to alter this sales growth 
composition such that more than half of our International 
growth comes from share gains, reducing our dependency on 
the market rate of growth.
The rate of sales growth of our International business is 
particularly important as this is where we have the greatest 
ability to generate economies of scale and improve the 
International business’ contribution margin. Our UK business, 
where we are well penetrated in the marketplace having 
operated there for over 75 years, generates a contribution 
margin of around 28–29% which we believe is sustainable. 
Our International business, in contrast, generated a 
contribution margin of 16.7% last year. Whilst this was an 
improvement of around 70 basis points on the prior year, it 
is still considerably below the UK contribution margin. With 
all regions achieving similar levels of gross margin as the UK, 
except for North America (where the industry gross margin is 
lower), there is a significant opportunity for the International 
business to expand its contribution margin towards the UK 
level as it grows and generates economies of scale. 
UK profitability
When we introduced our global strategy last year we raised 
our ambitions for the UK business, targeting an average 
of 1% to 2% per annum sales and contribution growth 
through the cycle, rather than seeking to maintain absolute 
contribution levels as had previously been the case. This 
increased ambition for the UK is based on our view that the 
UK manufacturing sector now provides a more stable trading 
environment than it did a decade ago. 
During the year the UK business’ sales declined by 2% (on a 
day-adjusted, constant currency basis). Sales trends improved 
in the second half versus the first half, but not by as much as 
we had expected given the improvement in UK manufacturing 
PMI. Consequently, we have made a number of senior 
management changes. Whilst the UK sales performance was 
disappointing the UK business did improve its contribution 
margin by 120 basis points to 28.7% due to an increase 
in gross margin and good control of operating costs, and 
contribution increased by 4%.
Strategy implementation
A new global strategy and a new global operating model 
for the business were introduced last year in order to put 
the business in the best possible position to capture the 
international growth opportunity described above whilst 
maintaining our strong UK position and profitability. 
In the past 12 months the new global operating model has 
bedded down, and there has been good early progress 
implementing the global strategy and delivering our seven 
strategic priorities (comprising four growth initiatives 
supported by three enablers). Below is information on some 
of the key strategic milestones achieved over the past year. 
A summary of each element of the strategy, the milestones 
achieved during the past year and the focus for the coming 
year, can be found on pages 12 and 13, Our Strategy. 
Accompanying the global strategy last year we also set out 
a new medium-term performance framework to reflect our 
increased ambition. We report on the four elements of this 
medium-term performance framework, together with key 
operational performance measures that we use to monitor 
our strategic progress, on pages 20 and 21, Key Performance 
Indicators.
International sales growth
3.8% 
(20 13: 0.8% decline)
See page 22 for 
Business and Financial Review
International contribution margin
16.7% 
(20 13: 16.0%)
See page 10 for our
Business Model
UK contribution margin
28.7% 
(20 13: 27 .5%)
See page 12 for 
Our Strategy 16
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Strategic progress during the year
Four Growth Initiatives
1.  Grow T arget Customers 
Across the Group, corporate customer numbers have 
increased by 3% since the end of last year. 
Some of this growth reflects the initial realisation of the 
benefits from sharing best practice on when and how to 
deploy the human touch to more effectively grow customer 
numbers. For example, our French business had previously 
developed a customer qualification process, working with our 
suppliers to identify which industry sectors and customers 
had high growth potential and warranted a targeted sales 
approach. During the year we shared this best practice 
from France with our smaller European markets, helping 
businesses like our Spanish business attract new customers 
and deliver strong underlying sales growth in the period.
Customer growth was also aided by driving a significant 
increase in traffic to our websites and our continued focus 
on providing great service to engineers via our family of 
free, easy-to-use design tools, DesignSpark. In the middle 
of the year we successfully launched our latest such tool, 
DesignSpark Mechanical. This fast 3D modelling and assembly 
tool brings 3D design capability to mechanical engineers, 
helping them to bring innovative products to market quickly. 
In the first seven months following its launch there have 
been over 70,000 activations of the software, with a large 
proportion of these coming from new contacts.
We also made progress developing an integrated strategy for 
each of our four target customer types to ensure our sales, 
offer and marketing approach and service levels are targeted 
to each group, and we are now managing customers more 
effectively across the customer life cycle.
2. One Global Offer 
 
Our five product categories are built to service our four target 
customer groups and there are clear, distinct strategies for 
each. Our Famous For range, comprising semiconductors, 
interconnect, passives and electromechanical, and automation 
and control product categories, are actively promoted and 
are the primary growth driver for the Group. During the year, 
the Famous For range grew underlying sales by 4%, around 
twice the Group sales growth rate. Our two other product 
categories, electrical, test and measurement, and tools and 
consumables, are included in our Other Maintenance range. 
We aim to defend and grow these product categories whilst 
focusing on return on stock.
Across the Group we added around 60,000 new products to 
our range during the year, slightly below the 70,000 products 
added in the previous year. This is in line with our objectives 
of improving the quality of our range by focusing new product 
investment on the Famous For product categories and 
building a more consistent global offer. During the year we 
took our first significant steps towards this second element. 
We have completed the build of a more consistent global offer 
across RS and Allied for our TE Connectivity product range, 
and have begun this process with ON Semiconductor, Omron, 
Honeywell, Panasonic and Phoenix Contact.  This means that 
there are around 30,000 additional products now available 
to customers globally that previously were only available in 
certain regions. As at the end of the year, around 10% of 
our product range was available to customers anywhere in 
the world. These initial pilots have successfully proven the 
concept, and moving forward we will now look to scale up our 
ability to conduct a range level-up so that we can proceed at a 
faster pace over the next few years.
The new way in which we manage our product categories has 
enabled us to improve our management of our stock. Stock 
provisions as a percentage of gross stock have fallen from 
11% last year to 10% this year. All of the above has been 
achieved whilst maintaining our high and reliable levels of 
service.
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Our Business
17
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
3.  eCommerce with a Human T ouch 
During the year our eCommerce channel grew sales at 6% in 
the year, significantly ahead of the 2% Group sales growth. 
eCommerce channel share, up 2% points in the year to 58%, 
continues to move towards our medium-term target of 70%.
This growth has been driven by a number of factors, including 
enhanced search functionality, increased investment in 
search engine marketing (SEM) and the clear value provided 
by our human touch, which manifests itself in the strong 
sales performance of our eProcurement solutions for larger 
customers and in our Live Chat service, amongst other 
initiatives.
Improved search functionality has made it even easier 
for our customers to do business with us. Visitors to our 
websites now get more relevant and clearer product 
information and have the ability to browse quick views of 
product specifications. Together with improvements we have 
made to the speed and effectiveness of the search filtering 
functionality, customers are now able to find and buy the 
products they need faster. 
We have driven a significant increase in traffic to our RS 
websites over the year, reflecting an increase in SEM 
investment of over 10%. Offsetting this increased SEM 
spend has been a reduction in our expenditure on catalogue 
marketing of a broadly equivalent amount.
Our eProcurement solution, sales of which grew by 13% 
in the year, helps large customers reduce their total cost of 
procurement. During the year our sales force worked hard to 
market the solution’s benefits, resulting in sales to our large 
customers across RS outperforming the overall customer 
base. We also completed the global roll-out of our Live Chat 
service across RS during the year. The service includes both 
sales chats, when customers are invited to chat based on their 
behaviour on site, and service chats, when customers can 
click a button to initiate a chat themselves. This service is now 
live in 29 countries in 19 languages across the world. 
4. Value for Money 
 
This strategic priority is concerned with improving customers’ 
perception of our range, availability and price. This is 
underpinned by our global price differentiation strategy, 
which is designed to enable us to capture more value from 
our slower-moving products. This will partially mitigate 
our investment in margin to improve our value for money 
proposition to customers of our fast-moving products.  We 
made particular progress with this strategy in the UK and 
Continental Europe, and have begun to implement this 
strategy in Asia Pacific. This strategy, together with actions 
implemented to improve our customer discount effectiveness, 
has enabled the business to deliver a broadly stable Group 
gross margin in the year (see Operational KPIs on page 21). 
During the year we significantly increased our communication 
on our Value for Money strategic priority and we also carried 
out pricing experiments to improve our knowledge of how 
different product categories react to price movements 
and price messaging. We rolled out a price perception 
measurement tool in the UK, the US and China to help us 
understand how both existing and potential customers view 
our prices, and plan to take this tool into more of our markets 
during the coming year. 
Three Strategic Enablers
1. High Performance T eam 
 
The major milestone for this strategic priority was the 
achievement of a smooth transition from our previous country-
based operating structure to a global operating model that is 
functionally-based but which retains the value of a local sales 
presence.
Our first global employee engagement survey in spring 2013 
showed above average levels of employee engagement. 
During the year we then developed action plans across the 
Group to enable us to improve upon these levels of employee 
engagement and in spring 2014 we undertook our second 
global employee engagement survey to check how we 
were progressing with these action plans. This reported an 
New products added
c. 60,000
(20 13: c. 70,000)
See page 02 for our
Strategy in Action
eCommerce sales growth
6% 
(20 13: 4%)
See page 92 for our 
Strategy in Action
Gross margin stability
45.9% 
(20 13: 46.0%)
See page 22 for 
Business and Financial Review 18
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
improvement in employee engagement levels, which we will 
look to build on in the coming year. We have also invested in 
building our programme management capabilities to ensure 
we are well-equipped to deliver our growth ambitions.
2. Business Insight 
 
During the year we defined, built, installed and implemented 
a new SAP-based business intelligence system on time and in 
budget. The systems will support quicker and more effective 
data analysis and insight. We are leveraging this new system 
to establish global product data tools. We are now generating 
product reports significantly faster than before and are putting 
in place training to enable users to utilise these tools and 
reports to generate improved product insight for the business.
3.  World Class Systems 
 
During the year we successfully installed a SAP-based system 
in South East Asia and Greater China. These are the second 
and third of our four sub-regions in Asia Pacific to move to 
this system, following Australasia which went live with its 
new system in December 2012. Asia Pacific is the last of the 
Group’s regions to move to a SAP-based system. During the 
coming year our systems implementation focus moves to 
the final sub-region, Japan. Having all four global regions on 
a common SAP-based system will allow all of our markets 
to have greater and faster access to the Group’s strategic 
initiatives.
We have begun the initial work required to separate the 
front office, middle office and back office of our systems 
architecture to enable more change to occur in the business, 
faster; this work will continue into the coming year. We have 
also commenced the installation of a new disaster recovery 
system for Allied.
Strategic focus for next year
Looking into the 2015 financial year, the strategic emphasis 
will be on our One Global Offer and eCommerce with a 
Human Touch strategic priorities, though as highlighted 
on pages 12 and 13, Our Strategy, there will be ongoing 
developments in all seven of our strategic elements next year.
Within the One Global Offer strategy we plan to work with 
more of our major suppliers to build a more consistent global 
range in their product categories, using the lessons we 
learnt this year to enable us to move faster as we extend the 
process to additional suppliers. We also intend to implement a 
global planning tool that will improve our supply chain planning 
effectiveness and demand planning across the RS distribution 
network. The third major area of focus for this strategic priority 
next year is the development of a new product management 
tool to allow us to consistently manage the life cycle of our 
products globally whilst remaining compliant with local market 
regulations. 
The eCommerce with a Human Touch strategic focus will be 
on the preparation for the upgrade of our web platform which 
we plan to commence during the year. This will be designed 
to enable improved functionality to enhance our competitive 
edge and alongside this we will embed new ways of working 
to enable us to drive a faster pace of change to our website.
Other important strategic developments planned for the 
coming year include the roll-out of a SAP-based system 
in Japan. This will complete the SAP-based system 
implementation in Asia Pacific, the last of the Group’s regions 
to move to this system. We also plan further systems 
investment in order to enable the business to make more 
changes faster, including a new enterprise architecture as well 
as a second testing environment.
We will retain our focus on growing our four customer 
types, implementing a new customer insight tool and 
communicating our value proposition in a globally consistent 
manner to improve brand awareness.
Current trading and outlook
In the first seven weeks of the new financial year the Group 
has delivered sales growth of 2%. Sales trends in May to date 
have improved as compared to April, which was impacted by 
the timing of Easter holidays. The International business grew 
by 4% and the UK declined by 3% (UK sales decline excluding 
Raspberry Pi was 2%). Within International, Continental 
Europe grew by 1%, North America grew by 6% and Asia 
Pacific grew by 8%.
Whilst the global economic recovery is uneven and there are 
foreign exchange headwinds, we will continue to invest in 
our strategic initiatives. We expect to make further progress 
towards our medium-term performance goals during the 
coming year.
Ian Mason   
Group Chief Executive  
22 May 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR PERFORMANCE > GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued Our Business
19
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our Famous For Product Categories.
The product categories below constitute around 55% of our sales; they will 
be our growth drivers and we expect them to grow at around twice GDP 
through the cycle.
Semiconductors 
Semiconductors are at the heart 
of any electronic device and the 
starting point of any new electronics 
design. This is why our customers 
need them and this is why we focus 
on providing a broad range of high 
quality products.
Interconnect, Passives and 
Electromechanical (IP&E) 
Virtually all electronic and electrical 
systems require interconnect, 
passive and electromechanical 
components. Thanks to the strong 
relationships we have with our 
IP&E suppliers, we can offer our 
customers quick, easy access to the 
broadest range and most innovative 
components on the market.
Automation and Control (A&C) 
We are committed to enhancing our 
portfolio of A&C products, including 
stop switches, motor controls 
and industrial cabinets. We are 
focused on being the main supplier 
for small and medium enterprises 
machine and panel builders, on-site 
maintenance engineers and buyers.
