 06
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
LSE Stock Code:  ECM
Chairman’s Report
This annual report is our first since new reporting regulations 
have required the inclusion of a strategic report and 
confirmation by the Directors that the report, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable. The content of 
this strategic report is not significantly different to content 
that has been presented in previous years, though we 
have enhanced our reporting of key performance indicators 
(KPIs – page 20) and the principal risks and uncertainties our 
business faces (page 28). We have made greater use of cross-
referencing and signposting between various sections of the 
report to make it more cohesive. We have also tried to use 
clear and concise language and to improve the transparency 
of our reporting. We hope that this will help shareholders 
assess the Company’s past performance, its main objectives 
and strategies going forward, and the key risks it faces in the 
pursuit of these.
Strategy and medium-term business plan
Last year I reported on the changes we had made to the 
Group’s organisation and strategy, which are designed to 
deliver improved financial performance for shareholders over 
the medium-term.
In the past 12 months the new organisation has bedded 
down, the plan is being implemented and good early progress 
against our strategic priorities is being delivered. Details of 
these are in the Our Strategy section (page 12) and Group 
Chief Executive’s Review (page 14). I would also like to 
highlight the significant strides made in rolling out our global 
systems platform across Asia Pacific, the improvements to 
search functions on our website and the initial steps taken 
to build a global offer by developing a consistent global range 
with strategic suppliers such as TE Connectivity and Omron.
We have an ambitious plan, and the scale and complexity 
of what we have set out to do over the coming years is 
significant. As the strategy is implemented we will ensure 
we learn lessons and adapt our plans accordingly. The Board 
regularly reviews our overall strategy, business plan and 
progress on implementation. We remain confident the Group 
is set on the right course to grow market share and improve 
financial performance over the medium-term.
T rading performance
The Group grew underlying sales (adjusted for trading days 
and currency movements) by 2% over the past year. Group 
underlying sales growth improved from around 1% in the 
first half of the year to around 3% in the second half, partially 
reflecting improving global markets, as illustrated by the 
increase in manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices 
(PMIs) in many developed markets. All our International 
regions contributed to this improvement, most notably 
Continental Europe, where we benefited from improving 
PMIs and took market share from our numerous smaller 
competitors. This continues a long-standing trend of share 
gains by our International business; we estimate that over the 
period 2006 to 2013 around half of our International compound 
annual sales growth of 6% was attributable to market share 
gains.
Our strategy is focused on growing customer numbers, 
eCommerce sales and sales of our ‘Famous For’ product 
range (comprising our electronics and automation and control 
categories). All three of these operational measures grew 
faster than total Group sales. More information on these, and 
our other KPIs, can be found on page 20.
Underlying sales growth of 2% contributed to headline profit 
before tax increasing by 7% to £101 million, reflecting a stable 
gross margin and growth in operating costs (at constant 
exchange rates) of 2%. Headline profit before tax growth also 
benefited by around £4 million from additional trading days 
and favourable currency movements, without which growth in 
headline profit before tax would have been 3%.
Welcome to the 2014 Electrocomponents Annual Report.
STRATEGIC REPORT > OUR BUSINESS > CHAIRMAN’S REPORT Our Business
07
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014
www.electrocomponents.com
Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our business model is highly cash-generative and Group 
headline free cash flow during the year remained strong at 
£58 million (compared with £56 million in the prior year), 
even after the planned increase in capital expenditure from 
£27 million to £36 million required to deliver our strategy. 
Free cash flow as a percentage of sales at 4.6% was within 
the parameters set out in our medium-term performance 
framework, as is the Group’s return on capital employed of 
21%. This remains well ahead of our weighted average cost 
of capital (for more information on these KPIs please refer to 
page 20).
Dividend
The Board is proposing an unchanged final dividend for the 
year of 6.75 pence per share. This will be paid on 29 July 2014 
to shareholders on the register on 27 June 2014. As a result, 
the total dividend for the year will be 11 .75 pence per share, 
resulting in headline earnings dividend cover of 1 .4 times.
The Board continues to believe that the business has 
significant opportunities to invest for growth at attractive 
returns, as encapsulated in the Group’s medium-term 
business plan. As previously stated, over time and as earnings 
increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend 
policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover 
towards two times.
Governance
The Board and its committees have worked effectively 
throughout the year. The Board is closely involved with the 
development of Group strategy, as well as scrutiny of progress 
towards its implementation and ongoing performance. 
An external, independent evaluation of the Board’s structure, 
composition and performance, carried out in autumn 2013, 
concluded that the Board works well, is engaged and 
committed and has broad diversity. Recommendations on 
improvements to target setting and review, succession 
planning and competitor analysis have been implemented.
After five years, Adrian Auer is standing down from the Board. 
His extensive experience has been of great benefit to the 
Board and we will miss him. I would like to thank him for his 
valued contribution. Recruitment of a successor is underway.
The Board is fully committed to showing leadership in 
fostering diversity of gender, race and nationality throughout 
all levels of the business, and ensures it considers candidates 
from all such backgrounds and irrespective of physical 
disability when appointing new Board members.
During the year the Audit Committee oversaw an audit 
tender process which has resulted in the intention to change 
auditors, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. The Board also reviewed its approach to risk 
management, resulting in an even greater focus on those risks 
which could have a large impact on shareholder value. 
There is more detail in the Corporate Governance section on 
pages 42 to 91 than in the past, most notably in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report where we have clearly set out how our 
remuneration policy supports the business’ strategy. We hope 
that these changes will help readers understand the work 
of the various Board committees and the role they play in 
promoting the long-term success of the Group. 
Corporate responsibility
As members of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate 
responsibility is integral to our business. Our greatest focus 
is on our employees, through ensuring a safe and healthy 
working environment and engaging them fully in our business 
strategy and operations. The Board provides clear leadership 
in both these areas. We are also strongly committed to being 
good citizens, playing a full part in the communities in which 
we operate and controlling our impact on the environment. 
More information on our approach to corporate responsibility 
can be found on page 34.
Employees
The success of the Group in its ability to grow and achieve its 
ambitions is totally dependent on the talents and efforts of 
our employees. As a Board, whenever we visit our operations, 
either together or individually, we are always delighted at 
the enthusiasm, commitment and dedication shown by our 
colleagues, even through the period of change and uncertainty 
many have experienced in recent years. I am delighted to 
see the way our employees have embraced these changes 
and engaged with the new strategy, and it is pleasing to see 
that the most recent employee engagement survey reported 
an improvement in employee engagement. On behalf of the 
Board I would like to thank them all.
Peter Johnson 
Chairman 
22 May 2014
