 Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Chief Executive’s Statement
Julian Wassell
Overall turnover for the year to 
30 September 2013 was £5.83 million. 
Core revenues from the sale of software and 
services increased by 3% to £5.62 million. 
This was partly offset by a reduction in 
hardware and related maintenance revenue 
of approximately £130,000.
These results reflect the success of 
our strategy in growing the hosting/cloud 
computing side of the business. As customers 
now require much lower investment in their 
own on-site computer equipment, this has 
had the expected effect of reducing the 
amount of relatively low margin computer 
hardware that we sell.
Whilst we have seen some improvement in 
business confidence, with a resultant increase 
in sales activity levels, price competition 
remains keen in our market place.
Business model
Our business model revolves around 
supplying our software products under 
long-term contracts either in the form of 
traditional on-site licences arrangements or 
cloud-based, hosted service level agreements. 
These long-term agreements provide us with 
good visibility of revenues from our existing 
customers for up to five years. Recurring 
revenues contracted under such agreements 
represent 77% of our total revenues in the 
year under review.
The business is structured such that, 
broadly speaking, these recurring revenues 
cover our day to day cash operating costs 
including product R&D which increased to 
£940,000 from £914,000 during the year.
The remainder of our revenues are derived 
from our initial software licence fees, hosting 
joining fees and the provision of professional 
services and consultancy. In addition, we 
supply a small amount of computer hardware 
and maintenance to certain customers.
The trend towards stronger ongoing revenues 
and away from the more traditional up-front 
licence fees, as we see more of our revenues 
derived from the Cloud/SaaS model, has 
continued at a moderate pace during the 
year. This has the impact of reducing the 
amount we receive up front but strengthens 
our ongoing revenues over the longer term.
One of our principal strengths is our lack 
of dependence on any single customer. 
Our largest customer represents 5% of 
turnover and our 10 largest represent 30%.
Our business model is robust; we manage 
our cost base prudently, and monitor working 
capital carefully. The impact of bad debts 
during the year has continued to be low.
Strategy
We deliver software solutions that offer 
clear business benefits, assisting our 
customers to generate sales growth or to 
create efficiencies and drive down costs 
in their business.
Our strategy over recent years has been 
to increase the number of customers who 
receive their software through the Cloud, 
and we have been doing so for 13 years 
from our hosting centre in Milton Keynes, 
thereby strengthening our commitment 
to our customers and vice versa.
We have two main product groups – 
software applications for distributors and 
merchants, where Quantum VS is our latest 
product; and Vecta, our market-leading 
Sales Intelligence product. 
The products are complementary with many 
of our customers using both. Whilst Quantum 
focuses on a number of discrete sectors 
within distribution, Vecta has a wider target 
market across a broader range of verticals.
Quantum VS provides the core of our 
customers’ business processes and as 
such it is a more “sticky” product once 
implemented. The product and market are 
characterised by long relationships with 
customers but also lengthy sales cycles 
which typically, and in common with other 
suppliers of similar applications, can be 
over 12 months.
Vecta balances this with much shorter sales 
cycles, sometimes measured in weeks, and 
shorter implementation times. However, 
customer churn can be greater as the 
product is less “sticky”.
Quantum VS
Quantum VS is a graphical software 
application focused on a number of vertical 
markets within the distribution sector including:
• builders and timber merchants
• suppliers of fixings and fastenings
• industrial and security products
• electrical wholesalers
• food distributors
Summary
• Core revenues from the sale of
software and services increased by 3%
to £5.62 million
• Recurring revenues contracted under
long-term agreements represent 77% of
our total revenues in the year under review
• The number of hosted customers has
increased to 172 at 30 September 2013
from 136 a year earlier
• Our cash balances at 30 September 2013
were £5.67 million (2012: £5.65 million)
We deliver software 
solutions that offer clear 
business benefits, assisting 
our customers to generate 
sales growth or to create 
efficiencies and drive down 
costs in their business. Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4
“ As part of our continued drive to enhance the capability 
of Quantum VS we have recently released a new WMS 
module which will allow users to introduce significant 
efficiencies within their warehousing operations.”
Strategy continued
Our strategy has been and remains to develop 
a single software application which provides:
• primarily, a clear upgrade path for our
existing customers by bringing into this
single product the key functionality from
our established distribution applications
– Merchant, Charisma, Esprit and
The Business Programme;
• a software application to exploit new
business opportunities in the markets we
address, using a system architecture which
provides agility and allows integration
of customer-developed applications and
third-party products which fulfil specific
requirements which are non-core to
Quantum VS; and
• a platform for continued enhancements
in functionality.
As part of our continued drive to enhance 
the capability of Quantum VS we have 
recently released a new WMS (Warehouse 
Management System) module which will allow 
users to introduce significant efficiencies 
within their warehousing operations. 
Following consultation with our customers 
we are also introducing purchasing 
management and forecasting capabilities 
into Quantum VS. This will allow users to 
address one of the major issues facing their 
businesses by allowing them to address 
inventory management, reduce stock levels, 
improve customer service and free up 
working capital.
The roll-out of Quantum VS among our 
existing customers has continued during 
the year in line with our expectations and 
we currently have a three month lead time 
for new implementations. We are working 
with our customers to manage the migration 
to Quantum at a pace that suits them.
Vecta
Vecta is a powerful Sales Intelligence 
software tool which assists businesses 
to drive sales. 
Vecta is delivered solely through the 
browser which enables it to be used on a 
wide variety of devices, whether desktop 
or mobile. 
More recently our strategy has been to 
extend Vecta’s CRM capabilities, further 
broadening its appeal. Our aim is to provide 
a single software product that will fulfil all the 
CRM and sales intelligence requirements of 
a broad range of businesses without the need 
for a separate third-party CRM solution.
We have also released Vecta in multi-language 
format during the year. This is significant 
because whilst in many cases management 
will use English for business purposes, 
other users may prefer or need to use their 
native language. Accordingly the language 
used can be set at the individual user level 
so that, for example, senior management or 
head office staff may use Vecta in English 
whilst sales and customer service staff 
use Vecta in their native language. 
These new features have enabled us to 
implement Vecta at a number of substantial 
European businesses.
Hosting/cloud computing
The number of hosted customers has 
increased to 172 at 30 September 2013 
from 136 a year earlier. Hosting now 
represents 48% of our revenues and the 
following graph illustrates the increasing 
proportion of our revenues which are 
hosted over the last 8 years:
The concept of remote computing through 
the cloud has been widely accepted by 
business. The fact that we offer the facility 
from our own purpose built hosting centre 
means that our customers have a single IT 
provider looking after their software, hardware 
and operating system requirements – 
the traditional one-stop-shop. 
Financial review
Turnover for the year was £5.83 million 
compared with £5.81 million in the previous 
year. The proportion of revenues which are 
recurring increased slightly to 77% from 76%. 
Adjusted operating profit, which is the 
measure used to monitor the business on 
a day to day basis, increased to £835,000 
from £820,000 giving an improved operating 
margin of 14.3% compared with 14.1%. 
Adjusted operating profit is calculated 
after adding back a net charge of £126,000 
(2012: £132,000) relating to a number of 
non-cash items which arise under IFRS; 
principally amortisation of intangible assets, 
defined benefit pension scheme charges 
and the capitalisation and amortisation 
of development costs. 
Our statutory profit before tax of £794,000 
compares to a loss of £83,000 last year. The 
previous year’s result included a write-down 
in property values of £849,000. Excluding 
these property related items, pre-tax profits 
in the prior period would have been £766,000 
and accordingly on this basis, statutory 
pre-tax profit has increased by 3.6%.
Our total R&D expenditure increased 
to £940,000 (2012: £914,000) of which 
£118,000 was capitalised as required by 
IAS 38. The remainder has been expensed 
in the income statement.
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Julian Wassell
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2006
11%
2007
16%
84% 89%
2008
19%
81%
2009
23%
77%
2010
30%
70%
2011
34%
66%
2012
43%
57%
2013
48%
52%
Hosted Non-hosted
Hosted vs non-hosted revenues
