 Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
Governance Notice of meeting Strategic report Financial statements
Chief Executive’s Statement
Julian Wassell
Our turnover for the year to 30 September 2014 
was £5.51 million, a 5% reduction from last 
year’s £5.83 million. As we noted when we 
reported our interim results, turnover in the 
first half was impacted by delays to a number 
of discrete customer orders during February 
and March. Second half revenues were 
consistent with those experienced in the 
second half of the previous financial year.
It is pleasing to note that the proportion of our 
revenues delivered through our hosting centre 
has exceeded 50% for the first time. This 
reflects our strategy to grow the hosting/cloud 
computing side of the business.
The upgrade of our existing customers to 
Quantum VS, our latest ERP solution for 
distributors, has continued during the year 
under review. Pleasingly we have also signed 
a number of new business customers for 
Quantum. Whilst Quantum provides an 
excellent choice for the majority of the 
existing users of our legacy applications it 
is unrealistic to expect that all of them will 
migrate. We therefore expect to see higher 
“churn” of customers in coming years than 
has traditionally been the case. It is therefore 
important that we increase our new business 
sales efforts to address this. Accordingly 
we have recently strengthened our lead 
generation and new business sales teams.
In common with many other software 
vendors, we continue to see a move away 
from upfront revenues towards stronger 
ongoing subscription revenues, particularly 
with Vecta, as the Cloud/SaaS business model 
continues to gain traction. Whilst the impact 
of this has again been modest during the year, 
we expect the trend to continue. 
We are continuing to see keen price 
competition in the markets for both Quantum 
VS and Vecta and it is important therefore 
that we continue to invest in R&D to ensure 
that our products remain attractive. During 
the year under review R&D expenditure 
increased to £981,000 from £940,000.
We reported at the half year that 
one of our major customers acquired a 
competitor software business. They have 
recently completed their transition to that 
business’s product which will impact our 
revenues in the current financial year by 
approximately £300,000. 
Whilst these factors combined will undoubtedly 
put some pressure on our revenues in the 
coming year, we have identified annual cost 
savings (after strengthening our new business 
sales team) within the business amounting to 
£200,000 which have already been implemented 
after the period end. These relate to personnel 
and property/establishment costs. We expect 
to achieve further annual cost savings of 
circa £75,000 in 12 to 24 months’ time as 
we reduce the property costs associated 
with operating our current satellite office 
locations. We will continue to manage our 
cost base prudently and seek opportunities 
to reduce costs wherever possible without 
affecting our ability to deliver our products 
and services to our customers.
Business model
Our business model revolves around 
supplying our software products under 
long-term contracts either in the form of 
traditional on-site licencing arrangements or 
cloud-based, hosted service level agreements. 
These long-term agreements provide us with 
good visibility of revenues from our existing 
customers for up to 5 years. Contracted 
recurring revenues during the period under 
review represented 80% of our total revenues.
The rest of our revenues have traditionally 
been derived from our initial software 
licence fees, hosting joining fees and the 
provision of implementation, training and 
consultancy services. In addition, we supply 
a small amount of computer hardware and 
maintenance to certain customers which 
is generally low margin.
Our business model is strong. We continue 
to manage our cost base prudently and 
monitor working capital carefully.
Strategy
Our strategy is to deliver software solutions 
that offer clear business benefits, assisting 
our customers to generate sales growth or 
to create efficiencies and drive down costs 
in their business.
We have aimed to increase the number 
of customers who receive their software 
through the Cloud, and we have been doing 
so for 14 years from our hosting centre in 
Milton Keynes, thereby strengthening our 
commitment to our customers and vice versa.
We have two main product groups – 
software applications for distributors and 
merchants, where Quantum VS is our latest 
product; and Vecta, our award-winning 
CRM and Business Intelligence (BI) product.
The products are complementary with many 
of our customers using both. Whilst Quantum 
focusses on a number of discrete sectors 
within distribution, Vecta has a wider target 
market across a broader range of verticals.
Quantum VS provides the core of our 
customers’ business. The product and 
market are characterised by long relationships 
with customers but also lengthy sales cycles 
which typically, and in common with other 
suppliers of similar applications, can be 
over 12 months.
Vecta balances this with much shorter sales 
cycles, sometimes measured in weeks, and 
shorter implementation times.
Summary
•  Turnover in the first half was impacted by 
delays to a number of discrete customer 
orders during February and March. Second 
half revenues were consistent with those 
experienced in the second half of the 
previous financial year
•  Contracted recurring revenues during 
the period under review represented 80% 
of our total revenues
•  R&D expenditure increased to £981,000 
from £940,000
•  Our cash balances at 30 September 2014 
were £5.0 million (2013: £5.67 million)
Our strategy is to deliver 
software solutions that 
offer clear business 
benefits, assisting our 
customers to generate 
sales growth or to 
create efficiencies 
and drive down costs 
in their business. Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4
“ We have significantly strengthened our development and 
product management resource during the year to further 
accelerate the delivery of new functionality.”
Quantum VS
Quantum VS is a graphical software application 
focussed on a number of vertical markets 
within the distribution sector including:
• builders and timber merchants
• suppliers of fixings and fastenings
• industrial and security products
• electrical wholesalers
• food distributors
Our strategy has been and remains to develop 
a single software application which provides:
• primarily, a clear upgrade path for our 
existing customers by bringing into this 
single product the key functionality from 
our established distribution applications 
– Merchant, Charisma, Esprit and The 
Business Programme;
• a software application to exploit new 
business opportunities in the markets 
we address; and
• a platform for continued enhancements 
in functionality.
We have significantly strengthened our 
development and product management 
resource during the year to further accelerate 
the delivery of new functionality. 
New functionality delivered during the year 
includes integrated telephony (TAPI), improved 
credit card handling, new signature pad 
functionality and the introduction of mega 
menus to improve navigation throughout 
the product. Quantum has also recently 
been released on an SQL database which 
will improve access to data and 
reporting capabilities.
Looking ahead, in 2015 we will be releasing 
a new document scanning and archiving 
solution together with a completely new 
e-business solution for our customers.
Vecta
Vecta is a powerful, combined CRM and 
Business Intelligence (BI) product which 
assists businesses to drive sales. It is 
positioned between the major CRM 
products, which typically do not deliver 
sales analysis, and traditional BI tools. 
Our aim is to provide an essential tool that 
will fulfil all the CRM and sales intelligence 
requirements of a broad range of businesses 
without the need for a separate third-party 
CRM solution.
Vecta is optimised for the latest internet 
browsers which facilitate its use on a wide 
range of devices whether desktop or mobile. 
Vecta is now exclusively delivered though 
the cloud. We have continued to add new 
features during the year and I am delighted 
to report that Vecta won the “Software 
Innovation Solution of the Year” and “SME 
Solution of the Year” categories at the 
industry renowned European IT & Software 
Excellence Awards for 2014.
We have a major new release of Vecta 
planned for the first half of 2015. This will use 
the latest technologies to deliver an improved 
look and feel and provide a platform to ensure 
that Vecta remains an essential tool for our 
customers’ management and sales teams 
into the future.
Hosting/cloud computing
We have offered our customers the facility 
to have their software hosted at our own 
purpose-built facility in Milton Keynes for 
many years. This gives our customers a 
single IT provider for their software, hardware 
and operating system requirements. 
For the first time, hosting now represents 
more than half of our revenues, at 52% 
(2013: 48%). The number of hosted customers 
has also increased to 184 at 30 September 
2014 from 172 a year earlier. The following 
graph illustrates the growth in recent years 
in the proportion of our revenues which 
are delivered in this way.
Financial review
Turnover for the year was £5.5 million 
compared with £5.8 million in the previous 
year. Revenues in the first and second halves 
were £2.6 million and £2.9 million respectively 
(2013: £2.9 million and £2.9 million respectively). 
Recurring revenues increased to 80% of 
total revenues from 77% last year. 
Adjusted operating profit for the year was 
£553,000 compared with £835,000 last year. 
Our operating margin therefore was 10.0% 
compared with 14.3%.
Adjusted operating profit is calculated 
after adding back a net charge of £198,000 
(2013: £126,000) relating to a number of 
non-cash items which arise under IFRS, 
principally amortisation of intangible assets, 
defined benefit pension scheme charges 
and the capitalisation and amortisation 
of development costs. 
Statutory pre-tax profit was £401,000 
compared to £794,000 last year. This reflects 
the impact of reduced turnover during the 
year together with a one-off IFRS charge of 
£60,000 resulting from our decision to close 
the defined benefit pension scheme to future 
accrual, and a £95,000 increase in the level 
of R&D charged in the income statement 
under IFRS.
R&D expenditure, which relates principally 
to the continued enhancement of Quantum 
VS and Vecta, increased to £981,000 from 
£940,000 last year. Of this £79,000 (2013: 
£118,000) was capitalised as required by 
IAS 38. Amortisation of previously capitalised 
R&D amounted to £36,000 (2013: £21,000). 
The amount charged in the income statement 
in respect of the current year has therefore 
increased to £938,000 from £843,000 
last year.
As a result of lower interest rates available 
on our surplus cash balances our interest 
income during the year was £46,000 
compared with £85,000 last year.
The tax credit of £3,000 on pre-tax profit 
of £401,000 arises due to the receipt of 
additional tax relief on qualifying Research 
and Development expenditure. We expect 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Julian Wassell
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
11%
16%
84% 89%
19%
81%
23%
77%
30%
70%
34%
66%
43%
57%
48%
52%
52% 48%
Hosted Non-hosted
Hosted vs non-hosted revenues
