 Elektron Technology plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
08
Business review
During 2011-12, revenues increased from 
£50.0m to £64.3m, largely as a result  
of a full year of contribution from the 
Hartest businesses, which were acquired 
on 1 September 2010, but trading 
profit was slightly lower at £5.0m (2011: 
£5.3m). Whilst these results did not meet 
the Group’s original expectations, they 
show that the Group is able to remain 
profitable and resilient even in uncertain 
times and are an encouraging basis for 
future growth. 
Serving a connected world
Elektron designs fast moving engineered 
products (FMEP) and has market leading 
positions in connectivity, instrumentation 
and monitoring and control markets. 
The majority of the business delivers key 
building blocks for today’s connected 
world. These products are managed 
in two segments: Connectivity and 
Instrumentation, Monitoring & Control (IMC).
Connectivity serves the need for delivery 
of data and power in the most demanding 
of situations. Examples include the 
Buccaneer power and data connectors 
for wired and wireless communications. 
In 2011-12 this segment delivered 
revenues of £29.2m (2011: £29.7m) and 
trading profit of £2.4m (2011: £3.7m).
IMC includes technologies that measure 
and monitor environments, materials and 
processes and increasingly can capture, 
process and act on data to automate 
decision making and improve business 
performance. Examples include the  
Kyros wireless temperature-monitoring 
system and Genisys vehicle power 
management products. In 2011-12  
this segment delivered revenues of 
£28.7m (2011: £14.5m) and trading  
profit of £2.4m (£1.5m).
Additionally the Group operates a  
small specialist FMEP segment focused 
on Materials. This serves specialised 
markets in the manufacture of tungsten 
carbide and the creation of tungsten 
carbide router cutter tools.
Elektron goes to market globally and  
the Group’s products are sold worldwide 
to over 7 ,000 customers and around 
100,000 end-users. They are used in  
all seven continents, as well as in space. 
Strategy and progress
Elektron’s strategy is based on the 
significant opportunity to grow revenue 
by accelerating the pace of innovation, 
unlocking the significant potential of 
marketing the product portfolio to more 
international customers and exploiting the 
efficiency that the improved organisational 
structure provides. Therefore the Group is 
both building global sales and investing in 
new product development (NPD).
 
Building global sales 
The Group has a wide geographic reach for 
an organisation of its size, and has already 
successfully demonstrated its ability to 
take its products to worldwide markets. 
However, there remains considerable 
further opportunity for growth on a global 
basis. For example, the Asia Pacific region 
is approximately 40% of the market 
but currently only 19% of sales, while 
the Americas account for only 13% of 
sales. The Group’s strategy is to use its 
international sales capability to realise this 
potential and achieve a geographic balance 
more closely matching the scale of the 
underlying markets. 
During 2011-12 the Group made 
important organisational changes and 
investments to pave the way for further 
advances in 2012-13. Cross selling of 
products to existing customers of one 
brand has also been under-exploited in 
the past; this is now being addressed.
Key highlights
•	 There remains considerable  
further opportunity for growth  
on a global basis 
•	 One of the Group’s key assets  
is its new product development 
capability, based in its Technology 
Centre in Cambridge
•	 Investment in sales resources  
has more than doubled to £8m  
in three years
John Wilson
Chief Executive 
Chief Executive’s review 08 07 06 05 04 03 09 10 11 12
34.9 35.6
29.9
50.0
64.3
9.3
22.5
9.1
26.0
22.7
Elektron Technology plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
09
Business review
The Group now operates with three 
regional sales and support organisations 
that are charged with driving direct and 
indirect channels across all its ranges. 
This represents a move to a more 
scalable model for some of the recently 
acquired instrumentation product lines 
that previously relied on EMEA-based 
expertise to service global markets. 
To support this agenda, the Group’s 
investment in sales resources has more 
than doubled to nearly £8m in three 
years, including increased training for  
the global sales force.
Investing in NPD 
One of the Group’s key developing  
assets is its NPD capability, based in  
its Technology Centre in Cambridge.  
It forms the hub of a multidisciplinary 
team that works together using Elektron’s 
development process – Innovation 
Resource Planning™. The Technology 
Centre allows the Group to coordinate 
activities and apply best practice and 
high quality engineering talent to new 
and existing products. All projects start 
with a marketing-led justification and 
are subject to rigorous technical and 
financial evaluation before significant 
development funds are committed. 
Multiple developments are now in train.
These are aimed at: 
•	 Upgrading current product lines, 
especially where there has been 
under-investment in recent years;
•	 Expanding the addressable market 
for current product ranges. Examples 
include using new materials for 
the popular connector ranges or 
simplifying instruments so that they  
are suitable for use by a less skilled 
user population; and
•	 Developing new propositions that 
combine instrumentation and 
measurement with networks and 
computing. The latter is particularly 
promising, given the growth 
in machine to machine (M2M) 
communications, which leads to 
increased demand for measurement 
devices and opportunities to develop 
smart solutions and services where 
Elektron’s domain knowledge and 
technology will be highly valuable.
Current developments in the NPD 
pipeline include:
•	 Major extensions to the key Buccaneer 
connector ranges to meet emerging 
customer requirements for end-use 
and expand the addressable market;
•	 Envir onment-sensing softwar e, 
hardware and networks for specific 
vertical markets to automate essential 
routine tasks, reduce risk and assist 
with compliance;
•	 Extensions to the ophthalmological 
instruments range to expand 
addressable markets to different skill 
levels and professional user groups;
•	 A new generation of controllers 
and positioners/sensors for the 
nanopositioning range to extend  
the Group’s offering to new areas 
such as scanning probe microscopy, 
interferometry, x-ray imaging, confocal 
microscopy and aerospace; and 
•	 Upgrades to viscometry instruments 
to increase their utility to existing 
customers and open up new sectors.
Business transformation 
The initial phase of restructuring the 
business is now largely complete. 
Elektron is now a matrixed organisation 
that has created centres of excellence in 
key functions of marketing, technology 
and production, and has ensured more 
scalable global operations for sales. As 
reported in the Chairman’s statement this 
has also included a move to a Cambridge 
head office and the establishment of the 
Technology Centre there. 
The second phase of this process is the 
rationalisation of the Group’s operational 
footprint in the UK, closing and consolidating 
three major leased sites. The office in 
Romford is now closed and its activities 
have transferred to Cambridge, Torquay 
and Stansted. The existing factory in 
Torquay will become the Group’s new  
UK centre for high-tech manufacturing. 
Activities at the Redhill and West Molesey 
factories will relocate to Torquay over  
the next 12-18 months, as the leases  
on those sites expire. When complete, 
this programme is expected to deliver 
savings in excess of £2m per annum.
Revenue – continuing operations £m
£64.3m Elektron Technology plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
10
Business review
Several new product lines are being 
prepared for release in this category, 
which are expected to suit a considerably 
larger set of end user applications, 
increasing the total addressable market. 
Arcolectric switches continued to make 
a strong contribution but face strong 
price competition from larger scale 
manufacturers. The Group continues 
to review its cost base and supply 
chain in response, as well as seeking 
opportunities for innovation: for example, 
during 2011 Elektron introduced a 
range of switches that incorporate anti-
microbial properties, aimed at hygiene-
sensitive OEM applications such as food 
preparation and medical devices.
Due to unprecedented increases in raw 
material prices throughout the year, 
margins were adversely impacted. 
However, this was partially offset by 
implementing price increases during  
the year. 
Instrumentation, Monitoring and 
Control (sales £28.7m, trading profit 
£2.4m; 2011: £14.5m, trading profit 
£1.5m). IMC experienced additional 
weakening of demand due to reduced 
government funding of national metrology 
laboratories and, in the UK, reductions in 
NHS capital spending which particularly 
impacted the QADOS products. 
The Group is actively refocusing 
Queensgate’s nanopositioning products, 
at present a small percentage of 
Group sales, to capitalise on increased 
opportunities in the sector. The Group is 
also involved in an important collaborative 
R&D programme funded by the UK 
government’s Technology Strategy Board 
in this area. The results from this project, 
when combined with the Group’s existing 
laboratory supplies (Agar) and metrology 
(ASL) brands, are expected to enable 
Elektron to serve the scientific laboratory 
market more effectively.
Regional performance
In the Americas (sales £8.3m;  
2011: £6.6m) there has been a 
particularly good performance in the 
Connectivity segment, with continuing 
strong sales growth and a record 
forward order book. This is a result of 
considerable effort in strengthening 
the sales infrastructure and distributor 
organisation in the region. Signing 
agreements with strategic national 
distributors allowed Connectivity 
to flourish this year. Other existing 
distributors started selling the Arcolectric 
line for the first time which should result  
in increased sales. 
The next challenges are to expand sales 
in South America and to generate growth 
for the Instrumentation, Monitoring & 
Control (IMC) product lines. In both areas 
2012-13 will be a period of establishing 
Elektron’s presence and initial sales. 
Several key hires have been made to 
support this initiative during 2011-12, 
and the Group has also increased its 
investment in marketing in this region.
In the Asia Pacific region (sales  
£12.5m; 2011: £9.1m), sales growth 
is largely attributable to the full year of 
contribution from Hartest and underlying 
growth was less than anticipated. As 
the majority of current Chinese sales 
are to original equipment manufacturers 
(OEMs) whose products are exported, 
mainly to Europe, there was impact from 
the downturn on demand. The Group 
has however invested in developing its 
organisation to support improved growth, 
focusing on China, South Korea, Japan 
and India. A new regional head office has 
been created in Singapore and a sales 
office opened in Shanghai. The Group 
is seeing growing opportunities in India 
and a new, enlarged office in New Delhi 
is expected to be opened in the coming 
year. The Group has also expanded its 
sales force in South Asia and India to 
take advantage of significant untapped 
opportunities in those areas.
In EMEA (sales £43.5m; 2011: £34.3m) 
the Group continues to increase the 
emphasis on developing sales outside the 
UK. Sales to key growth areas in Germany 
and Eastern Europe increased by over 
10% year on year, but there has been 
weaker demand and increased uncertainty 
from customers elsewhere, especially in 
southern Europe. The Group has therefore 
rebalanced its focus, with more resource 
being applied to the north and east of 
Europe. Elektron continues to see potential 
for the Sheen and Ophthalmic product 
ranges in the Middle East. 
Segmental performance  
Connectivity (sales £29.2m, trading 
profit £2.4m; 2011: £29.7m, trading 
profit £3.7m). Elektron’s Connectivity 
segment saw a softening of demand 
in Asia Pacific and parts of EMEA, in 
particular in Italy, historically the largest 
revenue-generator for Connectivity 
in Europe outside the UK (but now 
overtaken by Germany). There were 
encouraging levels of success in the 
Americas, where sales of connectivity 
products have increased by more than 
50% over the last two years.
In terms of industries served, there 
was some impact from a slowdown in 
demand for connectors from the solar 
power market related to changes in 
government subsidies in several key 
markets, offset by successes in the 
power grid and telecoms industries.
In 2011-12 the Group continued to 
increase its focus on direct sales to OEMs 
to ensure that it is not over-dependent 
on distributors, while also ensuring that 
it is working with the highest quality 
distributors, leading to the developments 
noted above. 
The Bulgin brand, and in particular 
Buccaneer connectors, continued to 
perform well, confirming its ability to 
command a strong competitive position in 
products with a large engineered content. 
Chief Executive’s review 
continued 08 07 06 05 04 03 09 10 11 12
2.1
1.1
1.8
5.3
5.0
0.8
1.8
-0.4
1.9
1.7
Elektron Technology plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
11
Business review
+50%
During the year there was positive growth 
for the Sheen and Wallace ranges, with 
customers and applications across 
various industries such as automotive, 
aerospace and rubber production. 
There are a number of new product 
developments underway to further 
enhance the product range, which  
will not only give greater appeal and 
scope in existing sectors but also offer 
expansion possibilities in areas such  
as plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics 
and FMCG testing. 
The year has also seen growth for the 
ophthalmic instruments product line 
as well as a number of new regional 
distribution deals. NPD activity is in  
train to build on these trends.
Particularly strong performance came 
from the Tinsley instrumentation range 
in India. This business is now providing 
a springboard to increase the range of 
products marketed in India and to create 
stronger local presence.
Carnation Designs continued to perform 
well in the specialist vehicle automation 
system market, with its products used  
in 95% of the UK’s frontline ambulances. 
Highlights included a £1m+ order for  
use in UK prisoner transport vehicles 
and the supply of a solution for a 
large Japanese corporation’s outside 
broadcast vehicles to use in China. The 
Group is investing to develop the profile  
of Carnation Designs globally, starting 
with selected priority markets. 
Materials (sales £6.4m, trading profit 
£0.2m; 2011: £5.8m, trading profit 
£0.1m). The small Materials business 
showed 10% revenue growth in the  
year, but continued to deliver lower 
profitability than the rest of the Group.  
A 40% increase in tungsten carbide 
prices was offset by price increases but 
with an adverse effect on overall margins. 
The Group is now focusing on developing 
new production processes to increase 
efficiency. Titman Tip Tools won some 
important new contracts in 2011-12, 
which are now beginning to generate 
increased volumes, and the Group is 
currently evaluating the potential of  
recent new product developments in 
connection with cutter technologies.
John Wilson
Chief Executive  
Sales of Connectivity products have increased by more 
than 50% in the Americas in the last two years
Adjusted operating profit/(loss)* £m
£5.0m
* Adjusted for goodwill, discontinued operations and non-recurring or special items.
