 Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 04
Principal activities
For the purposes of this report, the expression ‘Company’ or 
‘Elementis’ means Elementis plc and the expression ‘Group’ 
means the Company and its subsidiaries.
The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are 
the manufacture and sale of specialty chemicals. The Group 
is comprised of three businesses: Elementis Specialty Products, 
which manufactures rheological additives, compounded 
products and colourants; Elementis Surfactants, which 
manufactures surface active ingredients used primarily 
in the formulation of detergents; and Elementis Chromium, 
which manufactures chromium chemicals.
The Group’s corporate headquarters are in London, UK and 
its operational headquarters are based in Hightstown, New 
Jersey, USA. Each division of the Group is managed on a global 
basis with operations at over 20 locations in 6 countries. 
Elementis aims to manage its businesses responsibly. Its 
key responsibility to shareholders is to achieve a sustainable 
long-term return on the capital employed in the businesses 
and to be able to invest for future growth. The Group also 
takes seriously its responsibility to employees, customers 
and suppliers and for the impact its operations have on the 
environment and targets best practice in each of these areas.
Business review
Group Chief Executive’s report
David Dutro
“ The Group has continued to make excellent 
progress in both earnings and cash flow 
in 2007. We have improved the base level 
of earnings, stabilised results from the 
Chromium business and improved cash flow. 
In addition, the sale of the Pigments business, 
announced earlier in the year, was successfully 
completed on 31 August at a price of £71 million 
and together with cash flow generated from 
continuing operations has significantly reduced 
the Group’s debt. These accomplishments have 
resulted in a strong balance sheet and put the 
Group in a firm position to drive profitable 
growth, and this is where we are focussing our 
attention. The Specialty Products business 
provides an ideal platform for growth, having 
a strong technology base, a broad geographic 
footprint, diverse markets and a wide range of 
applications. The combination of product 
leadership, technical expertise and customer 
understanding provides true market 
advantage, and we are seeking to make 
prudent investments that will leverage 
these inherent qualities.”
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
26 February 2008 Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 05
REviEw of thE yEaR
Objectives 
Elementis Specialty Products is the Group’s largest 
and most profitable division. It has attractive growth 
opportunities and the objectives for this division are 
to increase the rate of sales growth, to achieve volume 
growth and to enhance operating margins. This organic 
growth strategy will be supplemented by selective acquisitions 
as appropriate, where a complementary technology, product 
line or target market can be identified.
Elementis Surfactants is the smallest division in the Group 
and achieves a lower return on its capital employed due 
to its market positioning. The objectives for this division 
are to focus its efforts on higher margin products and to 
maintain tight control on its operating costs.
Elementis Chromium successfully reduced its minimum 
operating rate in 2006 by reducing capacity in the UK. 
Its strategy is to increase sales volumes whilst effectively 
managing its supply chain to reduce its sensitivity to 
cyclical fluctuations.
Strategic developments
Background
Each of the three divisions has distinct characteristics and the 
Group has developed separate strategies for each business 
which are focussed on improving financial performance and 
improving the long-term return on the capital employed in 
the businesses. The cornerstone of each strategy is superior 
customer service and alignment with market leaders.
Elementis Specialty Products
Elementis Specialty Products has four manufacturing sites 
in North America, two sites in Europe and a smaller facility 
in China. 
The division’s products are purchased on the basis of 
performance rather than specification and are typically a 
small percentage of the cost of the end product. The business 
provides strong technical support to its customers, and its 
end-use markets are consumables. 
The priorities of this division are:
•  To increase the rate of sales growth without 
compromising margins.
•  To achieve volume growth from new product 
development and a wider geographical focus.
•  To enhance margins through improved productivity, 
procurement, supply chain efficiencies and enhanced 
product mix.
Specialty Products manufactures solvent based rheological 
products and low solvent and compounded products. In the 
low solvent market, it has technological strength and the 
competition is more fragmented. This market lends itself to 
new product development while the solvent based products 
present the opportunity for increased market share in Asia 
and Eastern Europe. Future volume growth in Specialty 
Products will be more focussed on the low solvent and 
compounded market. 
Elementis Surfactants
Elementis Surfactants was acquired in 2004 as part of the 
Sasol Servo business and it operates from a facility shared with 
Elementis Specialty Products at Delden, The Netherlands. It is a 
specialty surfactant manufacturer offering innovative products to 
the market and creating tailor-made solutions for its customers. 
Its products are used primarily in the formulation of detergents. 
Since the acquisition activities have been reorganised by 
reducing or eliminating low margin business and improving 
the productivity of its manufacturing site in the Netherlands. 
Its strategy is to continue to move to higher margin products 
while at the same time lowering its cost base.
Elementis Chromium
Supply and demand has been more balanced in the global 
Chromium market over the last two years, following a period 
of excessive supply through the early part of this decade.
Following a number of years of earnings volatility, it was 
decided, in 2005, to reduce production capacity in the UK 
and reduce fixed costs proportionately. This strategic action 
materially reduced the worldwide minimum operating rate 
for Elementis Chromium and reduced the division’s 
sensitivity to cyclical fluctuations. 
The business relies on the key raw materials of chromite 
ore and soda ash. A continuous supply of these materials, 
whilst effectively managing any price increases, is core to 
its strategy. In addition, the business seeks to optimise its 
global production to meet demand and flex its capacity as 
appropriate to reduce earnings volatility.
“ [T]he Group has developed separate strategies 
for each [of our] business[es] which are 
focussed on improving financial performance 
and improving the long-term return on the 
capital employed...The cornerstone of each 
strategy is superior customer service and 
alignment with market leaders.” Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 06
Business environment
Structure
A large part of the Group’s management team, including 
the Group Chief Executive, is based in Hightstown, New 
Jersey, US, while the Chairman and Finance Director and 
his staff are based in London, UK. The management 
team meets monthly and reports to the Board at each 
of its meetings. 
Sales and marketing
Elementis Specialty Products 
Elementis Specialty Products holds a market leading position 
in solvent based rheological additives and is seeking to grow 
its market share in low solvent and compounded products. 
The division is also aiming to increase its market share in 
Asia and Eastern Europe. The division’s sales and marketing 
strategy is based on thoroughly understanding its customers’ 
needs, providing excellent customer service, technical 
support and product innovation and thereby responding to 
each customer’s specific requirements. 
In 2007, approximately 74 per cent of its products were 
rheological additives (2006: 73 per cent) and the balance 
comprised colourants, additives and surfactants. The 
coatings market represented about 65 per cent of sales 
(2006: 65 per cent) and the next largest market was oil 
drilling at 13 per cent (2006: 13 per cent). Geographically, 
sales to Europe were 46 per cent of the total in 2007 
(2006: 43 per cent), North America represented 
33 per cent (2006: 37 per cent) and the balance was sold 
to the rest of the world. 
Elementis Surfactants
The main market for Elementis Surfactants is currently 
Western Europe. It is seeking to penetrate markets in Asia 
and Latin America. In addition, the business is aiming to 
reduce production of large volume commodity surfactants 
and tolling activities and to increase its market share in 
higher value specialty surfactants for the agrochemical, 
feed, plastic and resin markets.
In 2007, approximately 55 per cent (2006: 50 per cent) of 
its products were surfactants and the balance comprised 
additives for the pulp and paper market and production 
chemicals for the oilfield industry. In terms of sales, the 
three largest segments were leather and textile, domestic 
detergents and industrial cleaning. Geographically, 
89 per cent of sales were to Europe (2006: 95 per cent) 
and the balance was sold to North America and the rest 
of the world.
Elementis Chromium
Elementis Chromium aims to offer its customers competitively 
priced, quality products combined with good customer service 
and strong technical support. It has the largest market 
share in the chromium industry and operates from modern 
manufacturing facilities. Health, safety and a strong record 
of environmental care are important in differentiating this 
business from its competitors. 
Business review
Group Chief Executive’s report
Group revenue
from continuing operations*
£299.8m
Operating profit
from continuing operations*
£38.1m
*before exceptional items
“ The division’s sales and marketing strategy 
is based on thoroughly understanding its 
customers’ needs, providing excellent 
customer service, technical support and 
product innovation and thereby responding 
to each customer’s specific requirements.” 
Elementis Specialty Products Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 07
REviEw of thE yEaR
In 2007, sales of its products comprised: chromic acid, 
chromic oxide, merchant dichromate and chrome sulphate. 
Geographically, 47 per cent of sales were in North America 
(2006: 47 per cent), 29 per cent in Europe (2006: 26 per cent) 
and the balance to the rest of the world. The division made 
73 per cent of its sales in 2007 directly to customers 
(2006: 75 per cent) and the balance was sold through 
distributors and agents. 
Competition
Elementis Specialty Products operates in a market with 
several technologies. It has numerous competitors ranging 
from large multi-national companies to family owned 
private entities. 
Elementis Surfactants is active in numerous applications, 
technologies, chemistries and industries, and therefore it 
has a large number of competitors ranging from large 
multi-national companies to small and family owned 
private producers.
Elementis Chromium competes with one large multi-national 
public company and a number of privately owned producers. 
Supply chain
The key raw materials for Elementis Specialty Products are 
quaternary amines and hectorite clay for which Elementis 
owns and operates a mine. Elementis Surfactants primarily 
uses ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, nonylphenol 
ethoxylate and fatty alcohols to manufacture its products. 
These are primarily sourced from third parties. Elementis 
Chromium’s key raw materials are soda ash and chrome ore. 
All businesses purchase energy in the form of natural gas, 
fuel oil and electricity. Elementis Chromium is the largest 
energy user in the Group. 
Elementis is committed to paying its suppliers according 
to agreed terms. The Group’s policy is to agree terms of 
payment at the start of business with each supplier and 
to adhere to those terms, subject to satisfactory 
performance by the supplier. 
Elementis has identified that there is a risk inherent in 
its supply chain in maintaining a sufficiently broad base of 
suppliers able to deliver high quality products to schedule. 
In certain markets the Group is limited to a small number 
of suppliers and as part of the Group’s risk review, an 
overdependence on any particular supplier is reviewed 
and, where possible, mitigating action is taken. Elementis 
is also exposed to the risk of raw material price increases, 
particularly in markets where there are a small number of 
suppliers or with regards to energy where the price is driven 
by oil price and regional supply and demand issues. In 2007 
Elementis entered into agreements with suppliers to lock in 
the price of approximately 70 per cent of its energy costs for 
the year. Elementis Chromium agreed prices for soda ash 
and chrome ore at the start of the year subject to its volume 
requirements and certain market factors.
Computer systems
High performing information technology (‘IT’) systems are 
important to the successful running of the Group’s businesses. 
The Specialty Products and Chromium divisions have 
implemented an Enterprise Resource Planning (‘ERP’) 
system and are supported by two shared service centres, 
based in Hightstown, New Jersey, US for North American 
operations and Eaglescliffe, UK for European operations. 
Underpinning the success of ERP is a reliable IT infrastructure 
which focusses on delivering a secure, stable and cohesive 
architecture through server replacement, software upgrades 
and network simplification. An IT infrastructure that adapts 
to change and responds to the evolving requirements of the 
business activities is an important component in achieving 
the strategic goals of Elementis.
The Group’s IT strategy strives to protect the integrity and 
security of its data, network and systems through various 
tools such as encryption, authorisation, anti-virus programmes 
and proactive monitoring. A continued investment in IT 
signifies its commitment to utilising technology for 
achieving corporate objectives in an ever-changing, 
global market.
Regulatory issues, health, safety and environment
Elementis is committed to preventing harm to its employees, 
third parties and the environment in a sustainable manner . 
The Health, safety and environment report, which forms part 
of this Business review, is set out on pages 18 to 21.
The raw materials which the Group’s businesses use and 
the products that they produce are subject to demanding 
regulations concerning product safety in all parts of the 
world. These regulations, which also cover product testing 
and risk assessment requirements, are subject to review 
and revision, as is happening in Europe with the REACH 
(Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals) 
regulations. The Group is assessing the potential impact 
of these requirements on its businesses and planning to 
ensure compliance when the regulations come fully into force.
“ Elementis Chromium aims to offer its 
customers competitively priced, quality 
products combined with good customer 
service and strong technical support.”
