 Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 02
Revenue from continuing operations was £299.8 million in 
2007, an increase of 4 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Net debt came down by £84.4 million to £16.2 million in 2007 
and the Group has also agreed a ten year funding plan with 
the UK Pension Trustees which will eliminate the current 
funding deficit over the funding period and provide greater 
certainty to the Group in its future cash flow planning. The 
Group’s combined deficits for retirement benefit obligations 
at the end of 2007 under IAS 19 was £21.5 million versus 
£37.3 million a year earlier.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, before 
exceptional items, improved by 31 per cent to 7.2 pence as 
a result of the higher operating profit. The Group recorded 
exceptional items of £12.5 million (2006: £1.7 million) related 
to the gain on sale of the Pigments business and the recent 
restructuring exercise. Diluted earnings per share from 
continuing and discontinued operations, after exceptional 
items, was 10.8 pence versus 7.0 pence in 2006.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.4 pence 
taking the total return to shareholders for the year to 
2.7 pence, an increase of 12.5 per cent. Subject to approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 
30 May 2008 to members on the register at the close of 
business on 2 May 2008. The Board intends to continue to 
review the dividend policy as earnings performance permits.
Chairman’s statement
Robert Beeston
“ We have made a strong start to the year, 
building on the solid growth achieved in 2007, 
and expect to maintain progress in 2008 in 
line with our expectations.”
I am pleased to report that the Group has continued to make 
solid progress in 2007, with improvements in both earnings 
and cash flow. In addition the Group made a significant 
strategic step forward on 31 August by completing the sale 
of its Pigments business. This has further strengthened the 
Group’s balance sheet and provides a firm base for future 
profitable growth.
Results
Operating profit from continuing operations, and before 
exceptional items, improved by 21 per cent to £38.1 million 
and all three businesses again contributed to the improvement. 
Good demand in all of our major end markets was a key 
driver in 2007, with the exception of the North American 
architectural coatings and construction sectors which 
were impacted by the slowdown in US housing. Specialty 
Products experienced good demand in industrial coatings 
and oilfield, and made solid progress in sales to Europe 
and Asia, while Chromium benefited from a one time 
energy rebate of £1.4 million and changes in Chinese tax 
regulations prompted improved demand for chrome oxide 
and chromic acid. Surfactants made steady progress 
through further product optimisation and operating 
efficiencies. The Group’s operating margin improved 
to 12.7 per cent (2006: 10.4 per cent) led by Specialty 
Products where operating margins are now over 
20 per cent (2006: 17.3 per cent). Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 03
REviEw of thE yEaR
The Board
The Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s 
strategy in addition to monitoring performance. Through 
its own actions and those of the Board committees, the 
Board continues to meet its commitment to high standards 
of corporate governance. The Board seeks to implement 
these standards in such a manner that they provide 
real benefit for shareholders, employees and customers. 
Matthew Peacock stepped down from the Board on 
31 January 2008 and Ken Minton has indicated his 
intention to leave the Board in April 2008. Matthew and 
Ken have been on the Board since 2005 and have made 
significant contributions to the Group’s strategy and success, 
and for that I would like to thank them on behalf of myself 
and the other directors. The remaining Board members 
represent a good balance of industry, geography and 
functional experience, and so I feel it necessary to add only 
one new director in 2008 as replacement for the two who 
are leaving. We are actively engaged in a process to identify 
a suitable individual and expect to make an announcement 
during the first half of 2008.
Health, safety and environment
The Board is actively engaged in monitoring this important 
aspect of our business, and I am happy to report that our 
performance in this area remains in the upper quartile of 
industry standards. We remain committed to achieving the very 
best results and reporting in an open and transparent manner .
People
Our people have been instrumental in implementing a 
significant amount of positive change in the Group over the 
recent period, affecting both them and their families, and so 
I would again like to offer my sincere thanks to all of them 
for their contributions to the Group’s excellent performance.
Outlook
The Group has achieved a great deal over the last 24 months 
and now has a robust platform of good quality earnings and 
a strong balance sheet on which to move forward. We have 
made a strong start to the year, building on the solid growth 
achieved in 2007, and expect to maintain progress in 2008 
in line with our expectations.
Robert Beeston
Chairman
26 February 2008
“ Our people have been instrumental in 
implementing a significant amount of positive 
change in the Group over the recent period, 
affecting both them and their families, and so 
I would again like to offer my sincere thanks 
to all of them for their contributions to the 
Group’s excellent performance.”
