 Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2008
02
The strong set of results in 2008 reflects some of the 
benefits captured through the continuing actions taken by 
the Board to raise returns across the Group. The strategic 
focus of our business is to invest in the growth of our 
Specialty Products division and a major step forward was 
made in July 2008 when we completed the purchase of the 
Deuchem additives business and the Yuhong organoclay plant, 
thereby significantly expanding our presence in the Asia Pacific 
region. In the Chromium business, we took advantage of 
exceptional and positive market conditions in 2008, which 
boosted this division’s profitability, but these exceptional 
market circumstances are not expected to recur in 2009. 
Our UK facility is more exposed to a downturn in demand 
because of evolving competition in its end markets, where it 
produces less differentiated products than our US business, 
and its profitability depends heavily on supplying intermediate 
products to the US business. As a result, we are currently 
evaluating the closure of our UK chromium manufacturing 
facility to rationalise capacity. The combination of Elementis’ 
strong free cash flow, net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.0 at the 
2008 year end and borrowing facilities not expiring until 
July 2011, provide the Board with the relative comfort, 
in the face of the current dramatic changes in the global 
economy, to increase the full year dividend by 7 per cent 
to 2.9 pence per share.
Chairman’s statement
Robert Beeston
The strong set of results in 2008 
reflects some of the benefits 
captured through the continuing 
actions taken by the Board to 
raise returns across the Group. 
’’
‘‘
group revenue
£400.5m
Operating profit
from continuing operations*
£52.0m
* before exceptional items Elementis plc 
Annual report and accounts 2008
03
chAirmAn’s st Atement
Results
Operating profit, before exceptional items,
1
 improved by 
36 per cent in 2008 to £52.0 million on sales of £400.5 million, 
which is an increase of 34 per cent over 2007 or 17 per cent 
excluding currency effects and acquisitions. Earnings per share, 
before exceptional items, increased by 26 per cent to 9.1 pence. 
The Group recorded an impairment charge of £20.5 million 
in 2008, in relation to the Chromium business’ UK facility, 
and this is shown as an exceptional item in the Income 
Statement. After taking account of this, reported earnings 
per share was 4.5 pence compared to 10.8 pence in the 
previous year.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.4 pence, 
taking the total return to shareholders for the year to 
2.9 pence, an increase of 7 per cent. Subject to approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid 
on 22 May 2009 to members on the register at the close 
of business on 24 April 2009. The Board intends to continue 
to review the dividend policy as earnings performance and 
debt levels permit.
Health, safety and environment 
I am happy to report that our activities in this important 
area of our business have continued to be of a high standard 
during 2008 with no significant incidents reported by any of 
our businesses.
People
Elementis has made excellent progress in recent years by 
continuously improving operating results and credit for this 
outstanding performance must go to all of our employees. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their 
tremendous effort and commitment.
Outlook
Going forward it is clear that 2009 is going to be a challenging 
year . Market conditions in the latter half of the fourth quarter 
deteriorated significantly and trading in the early part of 
2009 has not yet recovered. However, the Group is well 
financed and the investments made in 2008 will further 
enhance the growth drivers in our Specialty Products 
business. The severe global economic downturn and 
accelerated customer destocking make our performance 
in 2009 difficult to predict, but we expect to continue to 
make progress over the medium term.
Robert Beeston
chairman
24 February 2009
Elementis has made excellent progress in recent years by 
continuously improving operating results and credit for this 
outstanding performance must go to all of our employees. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their 
tremendous effort and commitment.
’’
‘‘
1  Exceptional items are items which, in management’s judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain 
a proper understanding of the financial information and underlying performance of the Group. The impact of the exceptional items on operating profit is shown 
in the operating profit table on page 9. 
