 02 Elementis plc  Annual report and accounts 2009
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The economic downturn that the world experienced in 2009 has severely 
tested the resilience and ﬁ nancial strength of most companies and 
businesses around the globe.  I am therefore happy to report that,  despite 
the resultant downturn in results that we have experienced in 2009,  our 
businesses have nevertheless each reported a positive operating result for 
the year,  before exceptional items,  and the Group’s balance sheet remains 
robust,  with the year end net debt to EBITDA ratio at a level of 1.8 times.  
This was achieved through the inherent quality of our main businesses,  
each of which maintained its market leading position in its sector,  and 
by management taking immediate action on costs in the early part of the 
year to mitigate the effects of the sharp downturn.  In addition,  while the 
severity of the downturn caused management to put greater focus on 
some shorter term issues during the year,  such as current costs and cash 
ﬂ ow,  we were nevertheless still able to take some strategic actions that 
will help us achieve our longer term goals.  Specialty Products completed 
an acquisition,  in December 2009,  of a US based business called Fancor.  
Although modest in size,  this acquisition increases our presence and 
product offering in the faster growing personal care market.  In Chromium,  
we took the decision to close our UK facility which will improve earnings 
stability and therefore the quality of the business going forward.
Robert Beeston
Chairman
£363.7m
Group revenue
£23.4m
Operating proﬁ t before 
exceptional items  Annual report and accounts 2009 Elementis plc   03
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Company overview
Results
Operating proﬁ t for the year,  before exceptional items,  
was £23.4 million compared to £52.0 million in the 
previous year.  Earnings per share on the same basis was 
2.8 pence compared to 9.1 pence in 2008.  Revenue in 
2009 was £363.7 million which,  on a constant currency 
basis and after adjusting for 2008 acquisitions,  is 
28 per cent lower than the previous year,  mainly due to 
the effects of the economic downturn which were more 
prominent in the ﬁ rst half of the year as a result of severe 
customer destocking.  Consequently,  sales volumes in 
the second half of the year were 27 per cent higher than 
in the ﬁ rst half and operating proﬁ t,  before exceptional 
items,  in the second half was £17.8 million compared to 
£5.6 million in the ﬁ rst half.  
The Group recorded a number of exceptional items in 
the year,  including the closure of the UK Chromium plant 
and some one-time hedging costs,  all of which were 
announced at the time of the Group’s 2009 interim results 
statement.  In the second half of the year we received 
notiﬁ cation of ﬁ nes from the EU Commission relating 
to their investigation into heat stabilisers and,  while we 
are appealing this decision in the strongest terms,  we 
have taken the prudent approach of providing for the full 
potential cost of the ﬁ nes.  An exceptional pension credit 
has also been recorded in respect of adjustments to past 
service credits relating to bridging pension offsets.  The 
total of all exceptional items recorded in 2009 is therefore 
£49.5 million (2008:  £20.5 million).  After taking account 
of these items the Group recorded a loss of 8.3 pence per 
share compared to a proﬁ t of 4.5 pence in 2008.
EU Commission ﬁ nes
As announced in November 2009 the Group received 
a communication from the EU Commission regarding 
the imposition of ﬁ nes on Elementis and others.  The 
communication stated that the Commission was 
imposing a ﬁ ne of Euro 14.3 million on Elementis and a 
further ﬁ ne of Euro 18.3 million jointly and severally on 
Elementis,  Akcros Chemicals Ltd and companies owned 
by Akzo Nobel.  The Euro 14.3 million ﬁ ne was paid in 
February 2010 and the Company’s share of the latter ﬁ ne 
has yet to be determined.  The Company has ﬁ led with the 
General Court of the EU an action to annul the decision 
of the Commission to impose the ﬁ nes and will continue 
to vigorously assert its position that the Commission is 
precluded from imposing any ﬁ ne on Elementis or its 
afﬁ liates.  Elementis’  policy is to conduct its business in 
full compliance with all applicable competition laws.  
Dividend
The Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 1.4 pence 
per share,  taking the total return to shareholders for the 
year to 2.9 pence,  the same amount as last year.  The Board 
concluded that maintaining the dividend was appropriate 
in spite of the downturn as it remains conﬁ dent in the 
Group’s strategy and expects to make progress as the 
economy recovers.  Subject to approval at the Annual 
General Meeting,  the dividend will be paid on 28 May 
2010 to shareholders on the register on 30 April 2010.  
The Board intends to continue to review the dividend 
policy as earnings performance and debt levels permit.
Future reporting
The Board has decided to present the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
statements in US dollars under IFRS with effect from 
the beginning of 2010.  The majority of the Group’s 
sales and earnings originate in US dollars or US dollar 
linked currencies and the change will more closely align 
external reporting with the proﬁ le of the Group,  as well 
as with current internal management reporting.  In the 
future,  dividends will be determined in US dollars and 
paid in sterling at the closing exchange rate on the date 
the dividend is announced.  More information will be 
provided to shareholders,  including restated 2009 ﬁ gures 
in US dollars,  in a press release at the time of the next 
Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2010.  The ﬁ rst set of 
Group ﬁ nancial statements to be presented in US dollars 
will be the interim results statement for 2010.
Health,  safety and environment 
I am happy to report that our activities in this important 
area of our business have continued to be of a high 
standard during 2009 with no signiﬁ cant incidents 
reported by any of our businesses.
People
In a difﬁ cult year of trading,  such as we have experienced 
in 2009,  the pressures and responsibilities on our people 
are greatly increased,  and it is through their efforts 
that the Group has ended 2009 in a position to be able 
to beneﬁ t from the eventual economic recovery.  On 
behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their 
tremendous contributions.
Outlook
As we begin 2010,  trading has started on a more positive 
note and it appears that our customers are restocking,  
which is having a positive impact on our sales volumes.  
Our businesses have been strengthened by the 
strategic actions taken in 2009 and the Group remains 
well ﬁ nanced,  therefore we expect to make progress 
going forward.  However,  we will remain cautious until 
underlying demand patterns become clearer and signs 
of a sustained global recovery become more evident.
Robert Beeston
Chairman
23 February 2010
