  Annual report and accounts 2009 Elementis plc   05
Company overview Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Business review
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW
David Dutro
Group Chief 
Executive
£5.6m
Fancor acquisition
£16.0m
Annualised cost 
savings
Dear Shareholders,
2009 witnessed the most challenging macro economic 
conditions experienced in decades,  testing both the 
strength of our business model and the ability of our 
leadership to take fast,  decisive actions.  We succeeded 
in addressing the impact of unprecedented erosion 
in global demand across our markets by swiftly 
implementing a global cost reduction programme,  while 
maintaining superior customer service and continuing 
our investment in innovative technology.  In addition,  
we have been able to maintain our market share in each 
business segment,  whilst maintaining contribution 
margins.  Disciplined leadership at the business unit level 
resulted in all three Elementis businesses contributing to 
positive operating cash ﬂ ow for the year and a stable year 
on year debt position. 
Whilst the weak global trading environment disrupted the 
positive momentum created by four consecutive years 
of double digit EPS* improvement,  our business teams 
stayed focussed throughout the year.  That focus was on 
the successful execution of our long term strategy and 
a resolute commitment that Elementis enters 2010 in a 
stronger competitive position.
2009 Highlights:
All of our efforts resulted in a solid performance relative 
to the industry and the economic environment:
•
  Annualised costs reduced by £16 million,  of which
£10 million is expected to be sustained as customer 
demand recovers.
•
  Specialty Products maintained its contribution margin.
•
  Chromium ceased production at its UK facility in 
July,  successfully transitioning customers and 
releasing £7 million of cash ﬂ ow from the liquidation 
of working capital at the site. 
•
  Surfactants continued to improve the quality of 
its product portfolio.
•
  Deuchem was successfully integrated and began 
contributing impressively to our performance in 
Asia Paciﬁ c.
•
  Acquisition of Fancor in December 2009 strengthens 
our proﬁ table personal care business.
•
  Maintained an excellent health and safety record.
•
  Net debt remains essentially unchanged despite 
unprecedented decline in volumes and exceptional 
cash costs of £14.7 million.
Looking ahead we will continue to pursue proﬁ table 
growth in specialty markets and applications.  Specialty 
Products’  technical expertise,  product leadership,  
customer understanding and balanced geographical 
footprint provide a competitive advantage that enhances 
a strong platform for growth.  We will direct our energy 
and resources to geographies,  market segments and 
technologies that have the potential to generate material 
growth during what we anticipate will be a period of 
modest progress in global GDP trends.  While innovation 
and new product development remain the cornerstone 
of our organic growth strategy,  we will continue to seek 
prudent investments that leverage Specialty Products’  
quality core competencies and further strengthen its 
market position. 
The closure of the Chromium UK manufacturing facility 
addressed a fundamental long term strategic issue.  
Idling the high cost facility,  that had manufactured a 
non-differentiated product line,  has positioned the 
business to deliver stable earnings and cash ﬂ ow by 
providing high quality products from low cost,  ﬂ exible 
manufacturing facilities to a diverse global customer base.
While market sentiment is generally turning more 
positive as we begin 2010,  we continue to plan prudently 
and to leverage the operational efﬁ ciencies achieved 
in 2009.  The progress we made towards achieving our 
goals has been realised thanks to the hard work and 
initiative of the global Elementis team.  Their engagement 
and commitment is remarkable and truly appreciated.  
Based on the fundamental strength of our businesses,  
strong market position versus our peers,  a more robust 
Chromium business structure and the growth potential 
of Specialty Products,  I am quite positive about the future 
and conﬁ dent in our ability to make progress in the 
medium term.  I would like to thank our shareholders and 
customers for their continued conﬁ dence and support.
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
23 February 2010
* Before exceptional items
