 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
 Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc   03
BUSINESS REVIEW
Dear Shareholders,
In last year’s report,  I wrote of our resolute commitment to 
enter 2010 in a stronger competitive position and poised 
to generate material growth,  during what we anticipated 
to be a period of modest progress in global GDP .  I am 
pleased to report that we successfully executed that 
strategy in 2010,  yielding strong ﬁ nancial results across 
all of the Group’s activities.  Group operating proﬁ t,  
operating margin,  free cash ﬂ ow and EPS all improved 
sharply over 2009,  and these improving trends for the 
Group resulted in several earnings upgrades over the 
course of the year.  All three Elementis businesses made 
material contributions to the improvement and amongst 
the highlights were:  
•
  T he signiﬁ cant improvement in Group sales and 
operating proﬁ t.
•
  A continued improvement in Group operating 
margin with an accelerating trend across the year. 
•
  Strong operating cash ﬂ ow performance which 
was enhanced by structural improvements to 
working capital. 
•
  A record performance in Specialty Products with 
sales up 30 per cent,  operating proﬁ t up 132 per cent. 
•
  The solid performance from Chromium which 
delivered strong cash ﬂ ow and good proﬁ t and 
margin growth. 
•
  The signiﬁ cant reduction in our net debt position,  
which reduced by $27 million to $79.3 million.
Specialty Products,  which is our largest business 
representing 70 per cent of Group operating proﬁ t,  
reported its best year ever in terms of sales and operating 
proﬁ t.  This record performance is even more notable 
given that the recovery in the critical North American 
coatings market in 2010 was from a much lower base than 
other regions and therefore bodes well for our future as 
that region continues to recover.  The 2008 Asia Paciﬁ c 
based acquisitions of Deuchem,  a specialty additives 
company,  and Yuhong,  a local organoclay producer,  
have proven instrumental in providing Elementis with a 
powerful growth platform in Asia Paciﬁ c. Asia Paciﬁ c is a 
key component of our future growth strategy and is now 
Specialty Products’  largest sales region,  delivering growth 
in 2010 of 20 per cent year on year. 
Innovation has been and will continue to be at the heart 
of our success in Specialty Products.  Our product portfolio,  
new product development and investment in technology 
are uniﬁ ed by one simple over-arching theme:  to make 
our customers more successful.  We are aligned with the 
market leaders on a global basis and have long term 
relationships with these customers.  We have cultivated 
a reputation as the company that provides the most 
comprehensive and value added solutions for their 
formulary challenges.  This focus on delivering value 
to our customers resulted in signiﬁ cant new business.  
An example is in the shale gas drilling sector where our 
innovative products allow customers to drill faster,  further 
and more efﬁ ciently.  We are investing behind these 
innovative products to build proﬁ table market share and 
have implemented a number of productivity initiatives 
and capacity expansion projects,  including a signiﬁ cant 
capacity expansion at our Charleston,  West Virginia facility 
to support the growth of our shale gas drilling product 
range.  As strong as the innovation programme has been 
to date,  we are equally pleased with the quality of our new 
product pipeline going forward.  
The acquisition of Fancor in December 2009 
strengthened the product offering of our proﬁ table 
personal care business and is consistent with our strategy 
to preferentially invest and grow the Specialty Products 
business.  The quality of the Specialty Products business 
is reﬂ ected in its margins,  which are moving back to the 
peak levels experienced in 2007/8,  a level that we believe 
is sustainable based on the value we deliver to our 
customers.  While our products are a small percentage 
of the overall cost of our customers’  formulations they 
are critical to the performance and therefore highly 
valued.  This characteristic allows the business to pass 
through increases in our input cost and maintain true 
specialty chemical margins.  
Rheology,  the science of ﬂ ow and viscosity,  is a key 
component of our product offering and value proposition 
in Specialty Products.  Elementis owns and operates the 
only commercial grade hectorite clay mine in the world,  
a substance that has unique rheological properties,  
giving Elementis a sustainable competitive advantage.  
Currently we estimate the productive life of the hectorite 
mine to be in excess of 50 years.  
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
GROUP CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW 04 Elementis plc  Annual report and accounts 2010
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S OVERVIEW
CONTINUED
Elementis Chromium delivered excellent results in 2010 
reﬂ ecting the beneﬁ ts of the restructured business,  
further validating the new business model and giving 
us greater conﬁ dence in the ability of the business to 
deliver more stable earnings and cash ﬂ ow.  The business 
delivered operating margins of 17 per cent and a return 
on capital of 44.8 per cent in 2010.  The strong demand 
from our customers experienced in 2010 is expected to 
continue into the foreseeable future and conﬁ dence in 
our ability to pass through any cost increases and 
maintain margins is high.  We have also invested in an 
alternative energy project that will allow the Castle Hayne,  
North Carolina facility to operate on natural gas as well as 
fuel oil.  This capital investment will give the business 
greater ﬂ exibility to procure energy in a more cost 
effective manner going forward.  Moreover,  the move to 
natural gas will not only save money for Elementis,  given 
present energy costs,  it also has the potential to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions at Castle Hayne by as much 
as 25 per cent.
The Surfactants business,  based in the Netherlands,  made 
good progress in 2010 in its strategic intent to improve its 
product and market mix,  effectively selling less volume 
into the lowest margin commodity segments and 
more into the better margin markets.  The business also 
improved its operational productivity compared to 
2009,  as volumes improved in key operational segments.  
As such,  earnings showed good improvement over the 
near break-even level in 2009.  This business shares its 
production facility with the Specialty Products business 
and the goal remains to utilise more of the facility over 
time to support the coatings additives that are used by 
Specialty Products.
While we are encouraged and proud of the Group’s 
continuing progress and that our 2010 results are ahead 
of expectations on almost every performance measure,  
we are certainly not satisﬁ ed and believe that there is 
much more that we can achieve.  The reality is we still have 
signiﬁ cant opportunities to drive further improvement in 
performance and results for our shareholders.  Elementis 
is strategically well placed to beneﬁ t from the powerful 
global trends of robust growth in shale gas drilling,  the 
opportunities provided by our established position in 
emerging and high growth markets,  especially in Asia,  
and our portfolio of highly valued and innovative 
products particularly in all-natural personal care 
formulations and high performance coatings.  
We have a collective sense of optimism within Elementis 
about the near and long term future of the Group.  
This optimism is based on the ongoing positive 
transformation of our company into a business that can 
reliably generate strong proﬁ ts and cash ﬂ ow,  giving us 
the ﬁ nancial ﬂ exibility to invest for future growth to 
deliver shareholder value.  
The positive momentum in market demand and growth 
that we experienced in 2010 has continued into the early 
part of 2011.  Our revenues and margins continue to show 
improvement over the same period in 2010 – despite the 
ﬁ rst half of last year being a period of signiﬁ cant customer 
restocking.  Coupled with our robust order book,  these 
trends give us conﬁ dence in our ability to deliver further 
good progress in 2011.  Moreover, our ﬁ nancial strength, 
unique competitive advantages,  reputation in the global 
marketplace and,  most importantly,  the quality and 
character of our people, give us conﬁ dence in our ability 
to deliver further growth well into the future.
I would like to sincerely thank our shareholders and 
customers for their continued conﬁ dence and support.
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
1 March 2011
“ While we are encouraged and proud of the Group’s continuing 
progress and that our 2010 results are ahead of expectations 
on almost every performance measure,  we are certainly not 
satisﬁ ed and believe that there is much more that we can 
achieve.  The reality is we still have signiﬁ cant opportunities 
to drive further improvement in performance and results for 
our shareholders. ”
