 02 Elementis plc  Annual report and accounts 2010
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
I am very pleased to report on the signiﬁ cant improvement 
in the Group’s ﬁ nancial performance in 2010,  following the 
effects of the general economic downturn in 2009.  The 
results are particularly satisfying to the Board because at the 
core of the improvement are a number of strategic actions 
that have been undertaken by management over the last 
three years to improve the level and quality of the Group’s 
earnings.  These actions have also positioned us for growth 
by placing talented business teams in high growth markets 
and geographies,  where our inherent skills can be fully 
leveraged to produce exceptional performance.  Such 
actions have included the acquisition of Deuchem in 
Taiwan and China,  the acquisition of Fancor in personal 
care,  the reorganisation of the Chromium business and 
several high quality additions to our business teams.  All of 
these actions combined to make a signiﬁ cant contribution 
to this year’s excellent results and ensure the Group is well 
positioned for further proﬁ table growth.
Results
Revenues in the period were $697.4 million compared to 
$563.7 million in the previous year,  which is an increase of 
23 per cent after adjusting for currency and acquisitions.  
Operating proﬁ t in 2010 improved by 183 per cent to 
$102.3 million,  compared to $36.2 million in the previous 
year,  before exceptional items.  In Specialty Products,  the 
Group’s largest business,  sales volumes were well ahead 
of the previous year in both the ﬁ rst and second halves of 
the year,  demonstrating solid underlying growth in this 
business.  In Chromium,  the 2009 restructuring exercise is 
already showing positive results with good earnings and 
cash ﬂ ow improvements in the year.
Earnings per share,  before exceptional items,  in 2010 
improved to 15.2 cents,  compared to 4.3 cents in 2009.  
During the year the Group concluded that it should 
recognise the value of certain deferred tax assets relating 
to past losses,  resulting in a tax credit of $5.8 million.  
As this is a non-recurring,  one-time event it has been 
recorded as an exceptional item in our ﬁ nancial statements.  
Basic earnings per share in 2010,  including the tax credit,  
was 16.7 cents compared to a loss of 12.9 cents in 2009,  
which also included a number of one-time charges.
Balance sheet
As a result of the Group’s strong earnings and cash 
generation in 2010 the balance sheet has continued to 
strengthen and at the end of the year the ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA had fallen to 0.6x (2009: 1.9x).  In addition,  the 
deﬁ cit in the Group’s pension schemes,  as measured under 
IAS 19,  declined by $44.3 million to $67.4 million at the end 
of the year.  
Having also concluded a new four year,  $200 million bank 
ﬁ nancing facility in July 2010,  the Board is very conﬁ dent 
of the Group’s ability to ﬁ nance further growth.
Dividend
In 2009 the Board decided to maintain the dividend 
payout at the 2008 level of 2.9 pence,  despite the economic 
downturn,  because of its conﬁ dence in the Group’s strategy 
and ability to make rapid progress as global economies 
recovered.  This has clearly been borne out by the excellent 
results reported for this year and so the Board feels it is 
appropriate to recommence dividend growth.  The Board is 
therefore recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 2.6 cents per 
share which will be paid on 3 June 2011 in pounds sterling 
at an exchange rate of £1=$1.619 (equivalent to a sterling 
amount of 1.6 pence per share),  to shareholders on the 
register on 6 May 2011.  This brings the total return to 
shareholders for the year to 4.9 cents (3.1 pence),  
representing an increase of seven per cent over the 
previous year.  Going forward the Board intends to continue 
to progress the dividend as the Group’s dollar earnings and 
cash ﬂ ow permit.
Health,  safety and the environment
I am happy to report that our activities in this important 
area of our business have continued to be of a high 
standard in 2010 with,  again,  no signiﬁ cant incidents 
reported by any of our businesses.
People
The ﬁ rst rate results reported by the Group this year are,  in 
no small part,  the result of the efforts,  dedication and skill 
of our people around the world.  On behalf of the Board 
I would like to thank them all for their tremendous 
contribution to our success.
Outlook
The positive momentum and market demand experienced 
in 2010 has continued into the early part of 2011.  Even 
though the ﬁ rst half of 2010 was positively impacted by 
customer restocking,  our revenues and margins in the 
early part of this year are,  nevertheless,  showing an 
improvement over the previous year and our order book 
is currently robust.  The Board remains conﬁ dent in the 
Group’s strategy of continuing to focus on leveraging the 
unique characteristics of the Specialty Products business 
to generate further added value and growth.  We are 
therefore conﬁ dent of the Group’s ability to make further 
good progress in 2011.
Robert Beeston
Chairman
1 March 2011
Robert Beeston
Chairman
