 cents %
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
20.8
18%
19% 19%
21.8 23.0
Group operating margin and EPS
2011 2012* 2013
15.2
15%
2010 
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
• Specialty Products:
 − 10 per cent growth in sales and operating profit* .
 − Hi-Mar and Watercryl acquisitions fully integrated and 
providing the anticipated synergy benefits.
 − Double digit growth in personal care and oilfield drilling.
 − Strong customer response to new decorative additives 
from recently commissioned New Martinsville plant.
• Strong cash flow – 22 per cent increase in special dividend.
Underlying everything we do is a constant focus on achieving increasingly 
higher levels of safety, operational and environmental performance. For the third 
consecutive year our safety and environmental performance improved around 
the globe. Our safety performance in 2013 was one of our best ever and, while 
we are encouraged by this positive trend, we know that even one incident is too 
many. Our strong safety culture and focussed efforts in improving process 
safety will help us progress towards our goal of incident free operations.
Elementis Specialty Products
Specialty Products provides solutions to its customers’ challenges through 
superior technical service, application support and technically advanced 
products. We are a key supplier of performance critical products to the 
coatings, oilfield and personal care markets and our business provides 
an ideal growth platform with its well balanced geographic exposure 
across mature and emerging economies. Specialty Products continued 
to successfully execute its growth strategy, delivering its best year ever 
in terms of sales and operating profit. This performance was driven by 
market segment share gains, new product introductions, synergistic bolt 
on acquisitions, stable margins and operational efficiency. We firmly believe 
that making our customers more successful makes us more successful and 
it is this customer centric philosophy that remains the cornerstone of our 
strategy for new product development and technology investments. It is 
also a key component of our acquisition criteria.
Innovation remains the vital platform from which to drive our continued 
success. Our R&D pipeline is stronger than ever and, importantly, our 
new products are delivering real value to our customers as well as to 
our bottom line. Our ability to consistently deliver innovative products 
has been a critical part of the Specialty Products growth strategy and 
performance improvements and we are confident that it will continue 
to be a key component of our future success.
Dear Shareholders,
2013 has been another excellent year for Elementis with sales, operating 
profit, operating cash flow and earnings per share all showing a positive 
trend. We were able to leverage our diversified and broadly balanced 
portfolio of activities to deliver another year of solid results. In addition to 
our strong financial performance, we continued building the foundation for 
sustained growth by successfully executing a number of strategic initiatives.
EPS* moved to a record level for the fourth consecutive year, helping to drive 
total shareholder return to more than 400 per cent over the same period. 
Additionally, we announced total dividends in 2013 of 13.93 cents per share, 
which represents an 11 per cent increase over the previous year and a 
threefold improvement over the past 4 years.
Throughout the year we continued to strengthen our business both 
organically and by acquisition. We introduced new products, built on 
existing and new applications and invested to meet our customers’ 
growing demands. Among the many accomplishments of 2013 were:
• Another record EPS performance.
• Stable operating margins.
  Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items (cents)
 Group operating margin before exceptional items (%)
*
  restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 04
Group Chief Executive’s overview
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive $m
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
26.2 44.0 54.1
Net cash/(debt)
2011 2012 2013
(79.3)
2010 
Each of the three Specialty Products segments – coatings, oilfield drilling 
and personal care – is strategically positioned to capitalise on one or more 
of the powerful global trends of a rapidly growing middle class in developing 
economies, the increasing longevity and urbanisation of the world’s 
population and deep water and unconventional drilling for oil and natural 
gas. With the global middle class expected to nearly double by 2020, and with 
85 per cent of this increase projected to come from faster growing emerging 
markets, we expect consumer preference to evolve towards Elementis 
products that are used in environmentally friendly high performance coatings. 
The growing global middle class is also enjoying greater life expectancy and is 
increasingly urban, creating significant opportunities for our innovative natural 
formulations in personal care. The increasing demand for energy around the 
world, and the relative environmental benefits of natural gas compared to 
coal, will drive activity in deep water and unconventional drilling. With over 
20 years of experience in cutting edge technology and strong customer 
relationships in the energy drilling sector, Elementis is ideally positioned to 
fully benefit from the anticipated continued robust growth in deep water 
and shale gas drilling. While most of the growth thus far has been in the US, 
we are participating in exciting opportunities in a number of other regions 
as horizontal drilling and fracturing technology start to jump continents.
For the last few years, Elementis has focussed its technical resources 
to capitalise on these trends of a growing middle class, the increasing 
longevity and urbanisation of societies around the world and increasing 
deep water and unconventional oilfield drilling. To that end, our technology 
group applied for patents on 70 per cent of new products launched 
in 2013 and we expect higher revenue growth and margins on these sales. 
I am confident that Elementis is uniquely qualified to develop and supply 
innovative products and solutions that will allow our customers to take 
full advantage of the opportunities created by these trends. It is this unique 
and enviable position that convinces me that we are only beginning to 
unlock the earnings and growth potential of this business.
Specialty Products’ global capabilities allow us to develop and leverage 
solutions for customers around the world. Already, approximately  
40 per cent of its revenue comes from China, ASEAN countries and 
Latin America. In addition, our strong local presence in these fast growing 
regions allows us to truly understand our customers and to anticipate their 
specific needs in coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling applications. 
We expect this combination of Specialty Products’ broad global capability 
and strong local management to deliver material growth for Elementis.
Elementis Surfactants
The Group has continued to benefit from improvements in the quality of the 
product portfolio of the Surfactants business and, as a result, operating 
profit
* improved 17 per cent versus the previous year, on similar sales.  
  Net cash/(debt) ($m)
* before exceptional items
The business is located in Delden, the Netherlands, and shares its 
production facility with Specialty Products which represents an increasing 
proportion of the site’s output. The strategy remains to utilise more of the 
facility’s capacity over time to manufacture higher margin products sold  
by the Specialty Products business, achieving specialty chemicals 
margins. The strategy is succeeding as currently greater than 50 per cent 
of the facility’s sales are generated from products manufactured for the 
Specialty Products business. The Delden team continues to do an 
excellent job of optimising business performance while executing this 
capacity transition strategy.
Elementis Chromium 
Elementis Chromium is one of the largest suppliers of chromium chemicals 
in the world. From its efficient, flexible and scalable operations located in 
the US, it delivers a full range of chromium based products globally to a 
variety of end markets including timber treatment, metal finishing, refractory, 
metal alloy and leather tanning applications. The business is able to provide 
its North American customers with a differentiated and highly valued 
closed loop delivery model, providing a long term competitive advantage. 
Elementis Chromium prides itself on maintaining the highest global 
standards for its environmental, health and safety systems.
Elementis Chromium’s strategic focus is to deliver stable earnings and cash 
flow. The business has successfully executed this strategy, demonstrating 
consistently strong revenues, operating profit, margins and cash flow. 
This validates the stability and resilience of the business operating model 
over a wide range of economic and market conditions. The business got off 
to a slow start due to the impact of a scheduled kiln maintenance shutdown 
in the first quarter, but recovered as the year progressed in spite of a weaker 
global trading environment outside of North America. The Chromium 
team delivered $56.4 million of cash on operating profits
* of $55.1 million, 
demonstrating once again the strong cash generation capability of this 
business. Our intention is to continue to utilise the cash from Elementis 
Chromium to preferentially invest in growing the Specialty Products 
business and rewarding shareholders with enhanced dividends.
 
Summary
I am extremely proud of the high performance culture we have built at 
Elementis and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our 
employees for their dedication and tireless commitment.
It is with tremendous gratitude that we bid a fond farewell to Robert Beeston, 
who retired from the Elementis Board at the end of July 2013 having served as 
Chairman of the Board from 2006 to 2013. He is a true gentleman and his 
thoughtful leadership and unwavering support have been truly appreciated. 
While we anticipate 2014 to be a period of modest progress in global GDP 
growth, our internal performance targets and growth objectives are not 
predicated on an improvement in overall market conditions. Based on our 
strategic positioning, focus on innovation, strong product portfolio and 
healthy product pipeline, we remain confident in our ability to deliver 
profitable growth across a broad range of economic scenarios.
In closing, on behalf of the entire Elementis team I would like to sincerely 
thank our shareholders and customers for your support. We look towards 
the future with confidence and an unrelenting commitment to reward you  
for the confidence you have placed in us.
David Dutro
Group Chief Executive
25 February 2014
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 05
