 Ian Brindle 
Chairman
In 2013 Elementis achieved another year of earnings growth and good 
progress. The main focus of our growth strategy remains the Specialty 
Products business and so it is gratifying to report that both sales and 
operating profit* in that business grew by 10 per cent in the year. This is 
all the more impressive when considered against the background of a 
challenging economic environment. The nature of this growth provides 
further evidence of the diversity and resilience of our business model 
and the progress that has been made in implementing our strategy. All 
of the main market segments and geographies making up the Specialty 
Products business contributed to the growth, driven by market share 
gains, new product launches and strategic acquisitions while at the 
same time operating margins were maintained, demonstrating the 
inherent quality of the business.
Cash flow generation continued to be a strong feature of the Group’s 
performance in 2013. The balance sheet net cash position at the end of 
the year increased by $10.1 million over the previous year to $54.1 million, 
despite paying $33.0 million for the Hi-Mar acquisition and making the 
first special dividend payment of $22.0 million. 
Group revenues in 2013 were $776.8 million compared to $757 .0 million 
in the previous year supported by the good growth in Specialty Products. 
As previously reported, Chromium sales were impacted by the timing of a 
maintenance shutdown in the early part of the year. Operating profit
* was 
$146.6 million compared to $143.9 million in the previous year and Group 
operating margin* was stable across the two years at 19 per cent. Diluted 
earnings per share improved by 6 per cent to 23.0 cents per share. 
Balance sheet
The Group continues to be in a robust financial position with net cash 
on the balance sheet at the year end, providing an appropriate platform 
to support future growth. During the year the Group refinanced its main 
borrowing facilities, agreeing a new $100 million facility for 5 years 
on improved terms with a syndicate of US, European and Asian banks. 
The deficit on Group retirement schemes, under IAS 19, also declined 
during the year from $137 .4 million to $99.3 million, due to a combination 
of favourable asset returns, Company contributions and increases in 
real bond yields, further improving the balance sheet.
Dividends
The Board is continuing with the dividend strategy announced in 2012, 
which is to pay out approximately one third of earnings, before exceptional 
items, each year in a combination of interim and final dividends. In addition 
a special dividend is paid each year of up to 50 per cent of the net cash 
balance at the year end, provided there are no immediate investment 
plans for that cash. Consequently, the Board is recommending a final 
dividend for 2013 of 5.50 cents per share (2012: 5.32 cents) and a special 
dividend of 5.86 cents per share or $27 .1 million (2012: 4.79 cents 
or $22.0 million). These will be paid on 30 May 2014 in pounds sterling  
at an exchange rate of £1 = $1.6674 (equivalent to a sterling amount of 
6.8130 pence per share), to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014. 
This brings the total dividends for the year to 13.93 cents per share 
(2012: 12.56 cents), representing an increase of 11 per cent over the 
previous year.
$776.8 million
Group revenue
13.93c
Total dividends per share for 2013
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 02
Chairman’s statement Health, safety and the environment
Our performance in this important area of our business continues to be of 
a high standard relative to the industry and showed an improvement over 
the previous year, with fewer incidents. Nevertheless, we remain extremely 
vigilant in monitoring and improving our processes and activities that 
impact upon the safety of our employees and the environment.
Board changes
We stated this time last year that we would be making changes to the 
Board during 2013, as part of our succession planning programme. 
Consequently, we welcomed Anne Hyland to the Board in June who 
replaced Chris Girling as Chairman of the Audit Committee when he 
retired at the end of July. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Chris for his financial guidance, pragmatic approach and excellent 
contribution over the years. 
Your Chairman Robert Beeston decided to retire at the end of July for 
personal reasons. Robert was Chairman for just under seven years 
and led the Board through a period in which the Company experienced 
significant positive change and the foundations of its growth strategy 
were laid. On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my sincere 
thanks to Robert for his leadership and wise counsel over the years. 
As a consequence of this development, we decided that further 
Board appointments would be put on hold until a new Chairman 
had been appointed.
In January of this year we were delighted to announce the appointment 
of Andrew Duff as Deputy Chairman and Chairman-Designate, effective 
from 1 April 2014. The Board succession programme will continue under 
Andrew’s chairmanship. 
During 2014 Kevin Matthews and I will have served on the Board for more 
than nine years but, subject to shareholder support, we intend to continue 
in office for another year in the current period of Board transition. Kevin 
Matthews’ appointment was renewed in February for another year and 
my appointment will also be renewed for another year in June. We will 
both retire and stand for re-election at the AGM in April. Whilst Kevin 
and I can no longer be considered independent under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code once nine years have been served, we will both 
continue to exercise the independent judgement which will provide 
continuity and stability to the Board during the process of change.
 
The Board’s process of refreshing its composition will continue this year. 
Governance
The Board considers that it has applied all the principles and provisions 
of the Corporate Governance Code in 2013. Further information about 
this and other aspects of our governance arrangements are set out in 
the Corporate governance report on page 26.
People
Our progress and achievements are only possible through the significant 
efforts and dedication of our employees around the world. I would 
therefore like to congratulate and thank them on behalf of the Board 
for their considerable successes during the year.
 
Outlook
The positive results and significant progress made by the Group in 2013, 
combined with a strong financial position, are further evidence that the 
Group is adopting the right strategy and has the appropriate resources to 
drive profitable growth and create value for all its stakeholders. The Board 
is therefore confident that the Group will continue to make progress.
 
Ian Brindle
Chairman
25 February 2014
* before exceptional items
Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 03
