 David Dutro
Group Chief  
Executive
Dear Shareholders,
Once again, it is my privilege to report that 
Elementis has delivered another year of solid 
financial performance. The Group’s strategy is 
centred on creating its own growth opportunities 
based upon its strong and diverse market 
positions. This has been pivotal in enabling us  
to deliver a fifth consecutive year of EPS* growth, 
a further improvement in our year end net cash 
balance and a material increase in the total 
dividend. This progress has been achieved 
despite uneven regional and market segment 
growth, which further validates our strategy  
and underlines the resilience of Elementis. 
We remain resolute in our commitment to 
outperform the market and deliver profitable 
growth across all stages of the economic cycle 
and we have continued to invest to achieve that 
objective. While our global capability enables  
us to develop and leverage solutions for our 
customers around the world, our local presence 
allows us to truly understand our customers  
and their specific needs. 
2014 highlights:
• Another strong financial performance:
 – 5th consecutive year of EPS* growth.
 – Stable operating margin* at 19 per cent. 
 – Strong cash flow from operations saw  
net cash increase by $10.1 million. 
 – Final dividend increased by 5 per cent.
 – Special dividend paid for the 3rd 
successive year and increased by  
19 per cent.
• Specialty Products:
 – North America coatings up 7 per cent, 
driven in part by sales of innovative 
products from the newly commissioned 
decorative coatings facility.
 – Asia Pacific coatings up 5 per cent  
with sales and profits from Chinese 
manufactured organoclays reaching  
their highest levels to date.
 – Good international sales growth from 
Hi-Mar, our recently acquired US based 
defoamer business.
• Chromium:
 – Optimising product and sales mix to 
produce stable earnings and cash flow.
 – Cash generation was 117 per cent of 
operating profit*.
• Maintaining a strong focus on improving our 
excellent health and safety performance.
Consistent with our strategic focus on growth, 
Specialty Products introduced new products, 
expanded its geographic presence and made 
further investments to serve our customers’ 
growing demand. As a result of these  
initiatives we:
• Achieved a record level of new products  
as a percentage of sales, with new products 
accounting for 9 per cent of total revenue  
in the Specialty Products business.
• Opened a new sales office in Houston, 
Texas, led by a new business director and 
sales team in order to focus more intensely 
on oilfield customers.
Elementis has delivered another year of solid 
financial performance. The Group’s strategy  
is centred on creating its own growth opportunities 
based upon its strong and diverse market 
positions. This has been pivotal in enabling  
us to deliver a fifth consecutive year of EPS* 
growth, a further improvement in our year end  
net cash balance and a material increase in the  
total dividend.”
*
 before exceptional items
U U To read more on our objectives, 
strategies and business model 
go to page 6
4 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Group Chief Executive’s overview
