 tHe Year’s HIGHlIGHts
Januar Y 2009
significant environmental measures right at the start of the year: a ir Berlin is the first airline 
in europe to be approved by the l Ba (Federal o ffice of civil a viation) to carry out instru-
ment landings of the highest category cat IIIb for its fleet of more than 40 Boeing aircraft. 
a s such, landings will be possible when visibility in fog is down to just 75 metres, meaning 
that diversions will be rarely required. a ir Berlin also starts using a new software system  
s afer oute™ to improve landing approaches. t he speed of incoming aircraft is adjusted in 
such a way that holding patterns are avoided, even when there is a high density of traffic. 
r esult: passengers save valuable time, noise pollution affecting properties neighbouring the 
airport is significantly reduced and fuel consumption falls together with emissions.
Marc H 2009
n ew strategic anchor shareholders: esas Holding a .s . based in t urkey, which operates the 
airline pegasus as well as other investments, acquires a stake in a ir Berlin. a s such, a ir Ber-
lin obtains a second new major shareholder within the space of a few days. Just a short time 
earlier, tu I t ravel plc had also announced to acquire a stake in a ir Berlin indirectly. a s at 
the end of the financial year, esas held a 16.48 per cent stake and tu I a 9.90 per cent stake 
in a ir Berlin. a completely revised a ir Berlin topbonus frequent flyer plan is launched. sub-
ject to status, passengers can now collect up to 300 per cent more miles, purchase bargain 
tickets, obtain quicker upgrades and earn double award miles. t here are numerous ways in 
which business travellers in particular can benefit, and Gold customers receive exclusive ad-
ditional bonuses and services. a nd members will receive topbonus award miles every time 
they pay with the new a ir Berlin Visa c ard.
MaY 2009
n ostalgia meets high tech: a hundred years ago, a merican explorers reached the n orth pole 
for the first time. Deutsche polarflug and a ir Berlin mark this event with an anniversary  
expedition flight. a n a ir Berlin a irbus sets off from Düsseldorf to the Geographic n orth 
pole at 90° n orth. exclusively produced short films inform the passengers on board and ex-
perts and researchers give accounts of scientific and historical aspects surrounding the polar 
regions. Immediately after flying over the pole, the a irbus then commences the shortest possi-
ble circumnavigation of the world, flying through all of the earth’s 360 lines of longitude.
01)  e ssentials
02)  Evolving for success 
t he year’s highlights
03)  t he s hare
04) Directors’ r eport
05)  c orporate Governance
06) r esponsibilities 
07) a uditor’s r eport 
08) Financial s tatements 
09) o ther Information
p36 aIr BerlIn annual report 2008 June 2009
s uccess on the capital market (parts 1 and 2): a ir Berlin generates new capital in the amount 
of eur 23 million through a placing of 6.6 million new shares. 4.5 million new shares are  
issued in a further placing. o f this, a ir Berlin’s largest shareholder, esas Holding a .s .,  
subscribes to 4 million, Johannes Zurnieden, c hairman of the Board of Directors, 350,000 
and ceo Joachim Hunold, via his company Joachim Hunold Vermögensverwaltung GmbH, 
150,000 new shares. a further eur 15.8 million flows into a ir Berlin.
Jul Y 2009
c umulative experience: Hartmut Mehdorn, former ceo of Deutsche Bahn a G, Heidelberger 
Druckmaschinen a G and r We a G and former ceo of Deutsche a irbus GmbH and member of 
the Management Board of Deutsche a erospace a G is appointed as the new n on-executive  
Director to the Board of a ir Berlin plc . He takes over the position of c laus Wülfers, who left 
the Board at the end of the 2009 a nnual General Meeting. 
n ew routes, more frequent services: a ir Berlin starts flying to new destinations for the fifth 
time this year. t his time Israel: twice a week, there will be non-stop flights from Berlin to  
t el a viv.
au Gust 2009
s uccess on the capital market (part 3): a ir Berlin places a convertible bond in an aggregate 
with a principal amount of eur 125 million. t he bond can be converted into a ir Berlin plc 
shares at a conversion price of eur 4.01 per share and has a maturity of 5 years and a coupon 
of 9 per cent. In 2009 the cash and cash equivalents increase by eur 105 million, mainly  
due to the capital measures carried out. n et debt falls by 25 per cent to eur 574 million by 
the end of the year.
p37 aIr BerlIn annual report 2008 septe MBer 2009
n ew potential in important markets: a ir Berlin and pegasus a irlines, the largest private air-
line in t urkey, begin collaboration and link their websites. c ustomers benefit from 17 addi-
tional connections between Germany and t urkey and 26 domestic t urkish routes. t he Ger-
man Bundeskartellamt (Federal c artel o ffice) also approves the takeover of the city flights 
network of the airline Hapag-l loyd Fluggesellschaft mbH (tu Ifly) by a ir Berlin. In this way, 
a ir Berlin strengthens its presence in the c ologne, stuttgart and Italian markets, an expan-
sion of the range of services that is particularly attractive to corporate clients.
octo Ber 2009
Denser and denser: a ir Berlin expands its domestic German route network, now offering 
flights between Frankfurt and Hamburg. Flights of just 45 minutes link the two cities up to 
six times a day Monday to Friday and up to twice daily on weekends. Business travellers are 
particularly pleased. t he c ompany’s presence in t hailand is also strengthened. In addition 
to the direct connections to Bangkok and phuket already offered, domestic connecting 
flights are also added to the range. t his is made possible thanks to the cooperation with 
Bangkok a irways. Fair settlement: t he a ir Berlin subsidiary ltu and ver.di agree a collec -
tive agreement for cabin staff. t his means that ltu has now concluded all of its collective 
negotiations. In addition, a ir Berlin, ltu and the pilots’ association c ockpit bring their  
collective bargaining to a successful conclusion. a ir Berlin ensures a high level of job and  
income security by means of redundancy protection and guaranteed hours, obtaining in  
return cost control and planning security as a result of pay freezes.
s uccess on the capital market (part 4): a ir Berlin generates new capital in the amount of 
eur 33.5 million through a placing of another 8.4 million new shares. a s a result of this 
transaction a subsidiary of tu I t ravel plc holds a 9.9 per cent investment in the share  
capital of a ir Berlin.
p38 aIr BerlIn annual report 2008
01)  e ssentials
02)  Evolving for success 
t he year’s highlights
03)  t he s hare
04) Directors’ r eport
05)  c orporate Governance
06) r esponsibilities 
07) a uditor’s r eport 
08) Financial s tatements 
09) o ther Information no VeMBer 2009
Future investments: Four graduates of the a ir Berlin Flight s chool receive their licences. 
t hey are the first pilot trainees in Germany to receive pilot licences that meet the new inter-
national Multi-c rew pilot l icence (Mpl ) standard – a type of pilot training tailored to the  
requirements of modern airlines. In February 2009, the a ir Berlin Flight s chool was the first 
aviation school in Germany to be approved by the Federal o ffice of civil a viation to train stu-
dents for the Multi-c rew pilot l icence. International forerunner: a ir Berlin is the first airline 
in the world to be approved to use Gls technology. t he satellite-supported global position 
landing system (Gls ) makes high-precision approaches and pinpoint landings possible. 
l anding approaches are more effective, comfortable and quiet compared with the conven-
tional radar-based instrument landing system (Ils ).
Dece MBer 2009
r esponsibility for the future: a ir Berlin is awarded “prime” investment status for the first time 
in the sustainability rating carried out by oekom research a G. c ompanies that receive a 
“prime” rating are those which meet industry-specific minimum requirements for ecological 
and social sustainability as defined by oekom research, with oekom’s corporate ratings also 
placing them among the leading companies in their field.
p39 aIr BerlIn annual report 2008 aIr BerlIn plc
annual report 2009
