 EMIS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.EMIS-ONLINE.COM
06
Delivering  
integrated care.
Chairman’s statement
2013 was a year of considerable achievement for 
the Group. We made substantial progress towards 
our vision of supporting longer and healthier lives 
for everyone by providing integrated, excellent 
and innovative healthcare IT for patients and 
those involved in their care.
Roll-out of EMIS Web to GPs 
The roll-out to GP practices of EMIS Web, 
our transformational healthcare IT system, was 
maintained throughout the year. 74% of EMIS’s 
total GP estate in England and Wales is now live 
and hosted by us in EMIS Web. The remaining 
practices have all either placed an order or are in 
the EMIS Web familiarisation service. We recognise 
that this considerable achievement is due to the 
talent and exceptional effort of our employees. 
The Group expands into the 
Secondary & Specialist sectors 
On 5 August 2013, the Group acquired Digital 
Healthcare, England’ s leading provider of diabetic 
eye screening and other ophthalmology-related 
solutions. As well as a strong position in a profitable 
specialist niche market, adjacent to EMIS Group’ s 
presence in Primary Care, Community Pharmacy 
and Secondary systems, Digital Healthcare 
also provides the Group with opportunities 
for hosting and delivering fully managed 
ophthalmology-related services.
Ascribe joined the Group in September 2013. 
Ascribe is a well-established UK based 
healthcare software and IT services provider, 
principally focused on Hospital Pharmacy, A&E, 
Mental Health and Patient Administration Systems 
(PAS)/Electronic Patient Records (EPR), with a 
high level of penetration into NHS secondary care 
organisations. Ascribe’s suite of solutions and its 
HAP facilitate significant cross-selling opportunities 
and growth through interoperability and integration 
with EMIS Group’s primary, CCMH, community 
pharmacy and specialist solutions. Ascribe 
represented a rare opportunity to acquire a 
significant market position in several areas 
strategically adjacent to, but not overlapping 
with, EMIS Group’ s core offerings.
Strategy
Digital Healthcare and Ascribe formed part of 
our significant investment during the year towards 
our mission of establishing a complete integrated 
platform and product portfolio to help fulfil our 
vision. We also spent considerable time in further 
developing, refining and sharing our structure, 
strategy, mission and vision within the enlarged 
Group. Further information on the Group’s 
achievements in 2013 and its key strategic 
priorities for 2014 is given on pages 8 to 11 
of the strategic report. 
“
We made substantial progress towards our  
vision of supporting longer and healthier lives.
”
Healthcare 
focused 
Ethical & caring Our culture
Mike O’Leary
Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
Our governance principles
 
Leadership
The Board is committed to providing entrepreneurial leadership, 
setting the ethical standards and adding value from its engagement 
with all stakeholders.
  Read more on p25
Effectiveness
The Board is composed of an appropriate balance of experienced 
individuals who share a common vision in relation to the strategic 
aims of the Group.
  Read more on p26
Accountability
The Board is responsible for ensuring the Group works within 
a framework of effective internal controls which enables risk 
to be identified and managed.
  Read more on p26
Engagement 
The Board is committed to dialogue with shareholders and other 
stakeholders to ensure all views are considered and a mutual 
understanding of the strategic aims of the Group is developed.
  Read more on p27
Trusted Patient & carer 
centred
Integrated
Key management changes
The EMIS Group Board has seen a number of 
changes in the year. Phillip Woodrow, our former 
Chief Financial Officer, retired from the Board 
on 11 January 2013 after a planned handover to 
Peter Southby. On 4 February 2013 Andy McKeon 
was appointed as a new Non-executive Director 
after a long and distinguished career in the 
Department of Health and NHS. On 21 March 
2013 Sean Riddell retired from his Executive role 
but remained as a Non-executive Director. At 
the same time, Chris Spencer, who had joined the 
Board as Joint Chief Executive on 4 February 2013, 
became Interim Chief Executive. Chris was 
appointed permanent Chief Executive Officer on 
3 July 2013. David Stables, the Group’ s former 
Director of Development Strategy, retired 
on 30 September 2013.
Dividend
In line with the Group’s dividend policy, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 
8.0p per share, which, together with the interim 
dividend of 8.0p, provides a total dividend for 
the year of 16.0p. Subject to approval by the 
shareholders at the AGM on 30 April 2014, 
the final dividend will be paid on 2 May 2014 
to shareholders on the register on 11 April 2014. 
Outlook
Our progress this year would not have been 
possible without the continuing commitment of 
our dedicated employees. The Board is confident 
it has the right strategy and structure, people 
and skills to deliver its mission of integrating 
and optimising the products and other assets 
now comprised within the expanded Group 
and to fulfil its vision of supporting longer 
and healthier lives for everyone. 
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
19 March 2014
