 GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
STRATEGIC REPORT
Transforming healthcare.
Chief Executive’s statement
“
We facilitate integrated 
care across the whole 
“healthcare economy”: primary, 
community, child and mental 
health, community pharmacy, 
secondary and specialist care.
”
EMIS Group has had an exceptionally 
productive year with the accelerated roll-out 
of EMIS Web for GPs, the acquisitions and 
integration of Digital Healthcare and Ascribe 
(delivering a strategic platform for integrated 
care), strong organic revenue growth and 
a high level of profitability maintained.
As the Group moves towards the effective 
completion of the roll-out of EMIS Web to GPs in 
England it sees substantial medium and long term 
growth opportunities especially related to health 
record sharing across the Group’s own product 
suite and with third party products. The Medical 
Interoperability Gateway (“MIG”), from the Group’ s 
joint venture Healthcare Gateway Limited (“HGL”), 
now gives access to virtually all UK primary care 
and community health records. The Health 
Application Platform (“HAP”) from Ascribe gives 
access to EMIS Group and third party health 
records in secondary care. The MIG and the HAP , 
coupled with other products and tools, like the 
Group’s Medicine Manager for community 
pharmacy, increasingly facilitate integrated 
care across the whole “healthcare economy”: 
primary, community, child and mental health 
(“CCMH”), community pharmacy, secondary 
and specialist care. 
Health Minister, Jeremy Hunt, speaking at 
Cambridge Health Network on 5 February 2014 
described certain things as “absolute givens”: 
that the NHS will become totally dependent on 
personal and population level electronic health 
records and that patients will take charge of 
their own “health destinies”. EMIS Group is 
closely aligned in facilitating those trends 
in healthcare: first, as custodian of not only 
the cradle-to-grave GP record but also of 
millions of the more episodic records created 
in CCMH, community pharmacy, secondary 
and other settings; second through Patient 
Access, the Group’s patient transactional 
service made available through patient.co.uk 
which is already used by millions of patients 
and clinicians every month.
Operational Review
The Group, through its subsidiaries EMIS, 
Rx Systems, Digital Healthcare and Ascribe, 
is a major provider of healthcare software, 
information technology and related services 
in the UK. The Group is unique in holding 
a strong market position in every major 
area of UK healthcare IT. 
Primary & Community Care
Primary Care
EMIS remains the clear UK GP software market 
leader and grew its market share during 2013 
to 53.0% (5,232 GP practices) (2012: 51.2% 
(5,113 GP practices)). The primary care user 
base remains loyal and 76% of EMIS’s English 
GP practices have used an EMIS system for 
over 10 years. This growth and loyalty is in 
the face of practice consolidation, competitor 
activity, the alternative single system choices 
of a small number of clinical commissioning 
groups (CCGs) and the risk of churn created 
by the estate-wide migration from older EMIS 
products to EMIS Web for GPs (the Group’s 
transformational healthcare IT system).
Primary Care and 
Commissioning
Improving Group practice 
performance with EMIS Web
Yvonne Waddingham, practice manager at the 
Pelham Medical Group reports improved practice 
performance since moving to EMIS Web. “EMIS Web 
is essential to us in bringing all the information and 
work processes together so that we can develop 
and improve services. We certainly expect to make 
economies of scale, improve clinical governance 
and streamline care as we share templates and 
protocols among all of the staff.” 
“ Our new patients will be able to book appointments 
and order repeat prescriptions online as well as 
viewing their medical records, via Patient Access. 
All of these online services are very popular with 
our existing patients.”
Yvonne also likes EMIS Web’ s search and reports, 
which help her to run large-scale data reports with just 
a few clicks of the mouse. “There’ s no comparison with 
the previous IT system. It was difficult to access data 
and the GPs found the system rather cluttered. EMIS 
Web is intuitive and easy to use. All of the information 
that you need flows to you.”
Primary 
Care
Chris Spencer
Chief Executive Officer EMIS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.EMIS-ONLINE.COM
14
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Operational Review continued
Primary & Community Care continued
Primary Care continued
Renegotiation of the expanded English 
GP Systems of Choice (GPSoC) Framework 
continues with intended conclusion of Lot 1 by 
31 March 2014. Until then, the previous framework 
has been deemed to remain in place to secure 
vital continuity of service. Discussions have begun 
regarding GPSoC Lots 2 and 3 and the renewal 
of the GP system framework for Northern Ireland. 
Following the phased withdrawal of CSC’s 
iSoft product from the UK primary care market, 
269 former iSoft practices migrated to EMIS in 
England during the year. The Group ultimately 
expects to win around three-quarters of the former 
iSoft English estate and approximately two-thirds 
of the total iSoft estate of 492 practices. A number 
of the iSoft sites are in Wales where NHS Wales 
began rolling out a centrally hosted IT service to 
its GPs with EMIS Web customer acceptance 
testing being concluded in March 2013 and 
the first EMIS Web practice going live in June. 
EMIS Web GP
Throughout the year, the primary care division 
maintained the roll-out to GP practices of EMIS 
Web. At the end of 2013 there were 3,327 live 
EMIS Web practices in England and Wales 
(representing 74% of EMIS’ s total GP estate in 
those countries and an increase of 1,692 practices 
during the year). The remaining 1,196 practices 
have all either placed an order or are in the EMIS 
Web familiarisation service. 
EMIS Web mobile was completed, tested and 
released in early 2013 enabling GPs, and others 
in CCMH and other integrated care settings, to 
access the core elements of EMIS Web on a 
tablet device when working away from their 
clinical base. 
EMIS Web Community Child and 
Mental Health
EMIS has a growing presence in 
CCMH where the procurements are led 
by CCGs. An experienced Director of 
CCMH joined the Group in June 2013, 
further strengthening and focussing the 
CCMH team following additional investment 
in development, product, support and sales 
specialists. CCMH and integrated care 
functionality relating to cross-organisational 
tasks was released in May 2013 and 
cross-organisational appointments were 
released in July. EMIS Web is now used 
in at least 205 clinical settings beyond 
primary care.
In Camden, the North London CCG is using 
data-sharing to help clinicians integrate care 
across primary, community, secondary and 
specialist care. Subject to patient consent at 
the point of care, clinicians have a secure view 
of vital medical information held in GP records, 
using EMIS Web in key clinical areas including 
community: diabetes, chronic kidney disease, 
geriatrics, heart failure, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease and memory service. 
Using EMIS Web’s search and reports facility, 
Community Pharmacy
Pioneering integration between 
pharmacies and GPs
“ We can now see the full list of the patient’s repeat 
medication that is held on the GP system, which 
makes it easier for us to respond to patient requests.” 
Jignesh Patel, Pharmacist, Rohpharm pharmacy 
in Plaistow, East London.
T echnology is key to integrating repeat prescribing 
between GP surgeries and community pharmacies. 
A pilot project in East London is delivering promising 
results to enable direct electronic communication 
between EMIS’ GP software and Rx Systems’ 
ProScript system - rather than via the Spine.
The results of the pilot are encouraging - 
including clearer communication, more informed 
patient care and even reduced drugs wastage.
There is huge potential for further integration between 
GP and pharmacy systems. For example, giving 
pharmacists access to elements of the patient’ s GP 
record - with consent - would enable the profession 
to play its fullest possible role in patient care, giving 
Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) new 
options for creating efficient patient pathways.
Community
Pharmacy
Total revenue
£105.5m
+22%
2012 £86.3m
2011 £73.2m
2010 £62.4m GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15
STRATEGIC REPORT
clinicians treating 1,407 patients in the diabetes 
service reduced the did not attend rate from 
26 per cent in 2012 to 10 per cent in 2013. It is 
also helping them to triage care more effectively.
In London, in April EMIS signed the T30 
framework to supply clinical information 
systems to 30 community and mental health 
trusts in London and the south. In Glasgow, 
EMIS implemented the first phase of a contract 
to share information on 240,000 children across 
a range of community services. As the second 
half of the year progressed, bid activity 
increased markedly and the Group secured 
new CCMH contracts for EMIS Web in:
 h Bromley, replacing a Servelec RiO system, 
providing all community services to 350,000 
local adults and children. The system will 
deliver a common patient record, shared 
with local GPs, and central functions such 
as appointment booking. Productivity is 
already up by 20 per cent along with 
improved clinical outcomes. For example, 
leg ulcer healing rates are down from 21 
weeks to five;
 h East London Urgent Care Centre, helping 
prevent unnecessary admissions to Newham 
Hospital A&E department, caring for over 
70,000 patients a year. After only using EMIS 
Web for two months, the centre surpassed 
a target to refer no more than a quarter of 
patients to A&E by using two-way patient 
record sharing with local GPs.
Unprecedented tender activity continued 
throughout the second half and into 2014.
Patient.co.uk
Patient.co.uk, the Group’s website that 
helps patients play a key part in their own 
care through access to clinically reviewed health 
and well-being information and the gateway for 
transactional healthcare services, saw a rapid 
growth in patient and clinical visitors during the 
period. In January 2013, the site had 5 million 
unique visitors and 11 million page impressions; by 
December, following further enhancements to the 
content and functionality of the site, this had risen 
to 11 million unique visitors and 21 million page 
impressions. The division also developed and 
released patient-focused apps including the 
UK’s first Patient Access App launched on 
13 March 2013 at the NHS Innovation Expo. 
Community Pharmacy 
Rx Systems provides healthcare IT , software, and 
services to 35.3% (2012: 34.8%) of UK high street 
pharmacies. ProScript, the Group’s community 
pharmacy software, is the single most widely used 
dispensary management system in the UK. To 
complement and expand ProScript into pharmacy 
retail systems, Multepos Computer Systems 
Limited was acquired on 14 January 2013 for a 
net cash consideration of £0.7 million financed from 
the Group’ s existing cash resources. Multepos was 
quickly integrated within the first half of the year. 
Rx Systems also had a successful year 
organically: growing its user base; creating, 
piloting and preparing for the formal launch of 
Medicine Manager, new functionality facilitating 
information flow between GP practices and 
community pharmacies, with pilot sites starting 
to go live in April 2013; and drawing up detailed 
plans for the development of its next generation 
integrated community pharmacy software. 
Secondary & Specialist Care
On 5 August 2013, the Group acquired 
Digital Healthcare for a net cash consideration 
of £3.1m. Digital Healthcare is a leading 
provider of diabetic eye screening and other 
ophthalmology-related solutions. In England 
it has a market share of 80% and it also has 
a well-established international presence. 
As well as a strong position in a profitable 
specialist niche market, adjacent to EMIS 
Group’s presence in primary care, CCMH, 
community pharmacy, secondary and specialist 
systems, Digital Healthcare also provides 
opportunities for hosting and delivering fully 
managed ophthalmology-related services.
Community, 
child and mental 
health care
Bringing community care into 
the 21st century
A community rehabilitation team in Cheshire 
is providing more coordinated care to vulnerable 
elderly patients. The team at the Cheshire and 
Wirral Partnership NHS Foundation Trust provide 
vital care to ensure that approximately 750 patients 
– mostly frail, elderly people aged over 65, who have 
suffered strokes or falls – remain independent in their 
own homes and avoid admission to hospital.
“ I would highly recommend EMIS Web. It has 
totally changed the way we work – we are in 
the 21st Century now,” said administration 
manager Mandi Harvey. “For the first time, 
all the information about patients’ care is 
there in front of us.”
The team used paper patient records before 
switching to EMIS Web. “Caseload management 
is much improved. We can now very easily see who 
is providing what for patients, and that means their 
care is much better coordinated and effective,” said 
Kate Sharp, community rehabilitation team leader.
Community
Care
Total dividend for the year
16.0p
+13%
2012 14.2p
2011 12.4p
2010 11.2p EMIS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.EMIS-ONLINE.COM
16
Operational Review continued
Secondary & Specialist Care continued
On 16 September 2013, the Group acquired 
Ascribe for an initial enterprise value of £57.5m 
(with an associated placing of 4.4m new shares 
raising £26.3m net of expenses) and further 
cash payments contingent on performance of 
up to £3.0m. Ascribe is a well-established UK 
based healthcare software and IT services 
provider, principally focused on Hospital 
Pharmacy, A&E, Mental Health and Patient 
Administration Systems (PAS)/Electronic Patient 
Records (EPR), with a high level of penetration 
into NHS secondary care organisations. 70% 
of the UK NHS Acute Trusts and Boards use 
at least one Ascribe solution. Ascribe’s suite 
of solutions and its HAP facilitate significant 
cross-selling opportunities and growth through 
interoperability and/or integration with EMIS 
Group’s primary, CCMH, community pharmacy 
and specialist solutions. Ascribe also has 
international reach with 18% of its recurring 
revenue derived from Australasia. 
The organisational and product integrations 
of both Digital Healthcare and Ascribe are 
progressing well. Since acquisition, Ascribe has 
secured several significant contracts to supply 
clinical IT solutions to major NHS hospital trusts, 
including Doncaster and Bassetlaw and South 
Devon. Digital Healthcare is also progressing well 
as the first supplier to widely roll-out upgraded 
diabetic eye screening software to deliver the 
new Common Pathway required by Public 
Health England as well as over 50 enhancements 
requested by clinicians. Both businesses operate 
similar business models to EMIS, with a high 
proportion of recurring revenues.
As stated at the time of their respective 
acquisitions, both businesses are expected 
to enhance earnings in the first full year of 
ownership in 2014. Specifically, the acquisition 
of Ascribe is expected to deliver £0.5m savings 
from synergies this year, with further potential 
future efficiencies and economies of scale.
Summary and Outlook
EMIS Group continues to trade in line with 
the Board’s expectations, with continuing 
strong revenue visibility and improved profit 
performance in the second half of 2013 
continuing into 2014, principally due to the 
ongoing growth in the EMIS Web GP estate. 
This momentum and the benefits of last year’s 
acquisitions provide confidence that further 
progress will be achieved in the current year. 
First for national diabetic eye 
screening programme
Leading innovation across the sector, Digital 
Healthcare was the first to widely roll-out software 
to help clinicians to comply with new protocols for 
managing the early identification and treatment of 
patients at risk of sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy.
Dr John Hosker, Consultant Physician for Diabetes at 
Doncaster & Bassetlaw Hospitals’ NHS Foundation 
Trust, is one of the first clinicians to adopt the new 
software to comply with the common pathway. 
“We have been pleased to be early adopters of 
the OptoMize V4 software to support our local 
implementation of the new national common 
pathway for diabetes eye screening.”
The common pathway reduces unnecessary referrals 
to hospital eye clinics – improving patient care and 
saving money. More patients remain within the eye 
screening environment so that clinicians can address 
the background risk factors - the root cause of diabetic 
eye disease. This is helping to prevent loss of sight 
among the 19,000 people with diabetes in our local 
Doncaster community.
Secondary & 
Specialist Care 
Introducing a fully integrated 
pharmacy solution
Secondary Care
Specialist Care
The go-live of Ascribe’ s ePrescribing and Medicines 
Administration at East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust 
marks the final stage in the Trust’ s strategic partnership 
to implement a fully integrated Pharmacy solution. With 
Ascribe Web Pharmacy and eMedicines Management 
already in place, the move to ePrescribing is enabling a 
single workflow of information from the prescriber to 
the dispensary staff, using a single patient record, 
which eliminates the need to transcribe routine 
medications, and provides decision support 
to clinicians.
Neil Fletcher, Chief Pharmacist said: “Ascribe 
has helped us gain trust-wide engagement, as 
electronic prescribing is not just for the pharmacy 
department. The ePMA solution will deliver benefits 
including integrating with trust-wide systems, cost 
savings from drug spend, reduce time spent in 
the dispensary for more time at patient bedside, 
reduce errors of handwritten notes, and help 
to achieve a paperless status - all of which will 
ultimately help us deliver better patient care.”
A successful outcome to the GPSoC framework 
renegotiation and completing the roll-out of EMIS 
Web GP in England through 2014, remain two 
of the key objectives for the primary care division. 
Other high priority objectives for the Group include 
capitalising on the post National Programme 
re-letting of contracts in the CCMH and secondary 
markets, continuing to focus on the integration 
of Ascribe and Digital Healthcare with the Group 
(both at an organisational and product level) 
and optimising development delivery and 
other operational efficiencies. Meeting these 
objectives will deliver strong and sustainable 
growth during 2014 and beyond. 
As financial and demographic factors continue 
to impact on the NHS, EMIS Group confidently 
expects to remain at the heart of healthcare IT 
while taking further and significant steps towards 
its strategic vision of integrated healthcare systems 
joining primary, community, secondary and 
specialist care.
Chris Spencer
Chief Executive Officer
19 March 2014
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Secondary
& Specialist
Care
