 Chairman’s statement
Delivering integrated, excellent 
and innovative healthcare IT 
for patients and all those 
involved in their care. 
2014 was a strong year with a focus on strategy. The roll-out 
programme for EMIS Web for GPs in England was almost complete 
at the year end, and the expansion into Community, Children’s 
and Mental Health (CCMH) continued. Development of the 
next generation community pharmacy software progressed well 
and the significant work on Group product integration was clearly 
demonstrated by the launch and start of the roll-out of innovative 
integrated products connecting GPs, pharmacists, secondary care 
clinicians and patients. 
Following on from the acquisition of Ascribe in 2013, the addition 
of Indigo 4 on 16 July 2014 brought an extensive customer base 
in the secondary care sector. Its products, already used by over 
150 NHS Trusts, Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) and private 
organisations, extend our existing proprietary capabilities in the 
requesting, messaging, translation and delivery of electronic clinical 
and administrative data across primary & secondary care.
The acquisition of Medical Imaging (UK) Limited and MIDRSS 
Limited (together “Medical Imaging”), was completed on 
22 December 2014. Medical Imaging is the leading provider of 
services delivering diabetic eye screening and ophthalmology 
imaging to the NHS in England and has a growing presence 
assisting Ireland’s national health service, the HSE. The 
acquisition is in line with EMIS Group’s strategy of providing 
cross-organisational healthcare systems and further enhances 
its position in diabetic eye screening.
Changes to the Board
The range of experience of our Non-executive Directors continued 
to provide valuable support to the Executive Directors ensuring 
they continued to develop an ambitious strategy and that strategy 
was delivered effectively. On 9 May 2014, Kevin Boyd joined the 
Board as a Non-executive Director. As a finance director of a FTSE 
250 business, he has proved to be a valuable addition to the Board. 
On 30 January 2015, Sean Riddell stepped down from his role 
as Non-executive Director. Sean was instrumental in the growth 
and achievements of the business both as an Executive and 
Non-executive Director and the Board thanks him for his 
significant contribution, over many years.
Corporate governance
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and adding value by ensuring that strong ethical 
standards are maintained. There is a framework of effective 
internal controls and dialogue with all stakeholders is encouraged 
to gain the most value from engagement with a wide variety 
of stakeholders. Further information on corporate governance 
can be found on page 30.
Mike O’Leary, Chairman
STRATEGIC REPORT
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 06 We remain uniquely placed to 
continue to help provide faster, 
better and cheaper healthcare 
through connecting software and 
services, which in turn supports 
longer and healthier lives. 
Dividend
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 29 April 2015, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.2p per ordinary 
share payable on 1 May 2015 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 10 April 2015. The total dividend 
for the year is 18.4p.
Our brand
During 2015 we will re-brand a number of our existing businesses 
as EMIS Health. We provide integrated systems to help deliver 
better, faster patient care more efficiently and operating under 
one brand will underline that. We will also launch the new brand 
EMIS Care. Under the EMIS Care brand we will provide technical 
and administrative assistance to clinicians.
Our people
The achievements over the last year would not have been 
possible without the excellent performance of our people. The 
business has worked hard to improve cross-Group collaboration, 
to encourage communication and to develop a deeper understanding 
of strategy. We remain dedicated to supporting our employees 
by investment and creating opportunities. Their commitment 
means that we remain uniquely placed to continue to help provide 
faster, better and cheaper healthcare through connecting software 
and services, which in turn supports longer and healthier lives. 
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
18 March 2015
Corporate governance
> Page 30
EMIS Health
During 2015, we will launch a new brand: EMIS Health. 
This will bring together our businesses working in Primary & 
Community Care (EMIS), Secondary Care (Ascribe and Indigo 4), 
Community Pharmacy (Rx Systems), and Specialist Services 
(Digital Healthcare).
Behind the scenes we’ve been working hard to integrate 
them – from teams and processes, to products and services. 
By re-branding we can demonstrate how we are joining them 
up to help our customers – in every health sector – to deliver 
the NHS vision of integrated care.
EMIS Health will provide every health sector with innovative 
technologies, from market-leading clinical management 
systems to health analytics tools – combined with unrivalled 
customer support.
Egton and Patient will retain their separate brands as 
the Group’s providers of specialist ICT infrastructure, 
software, hardware and engineering services, and online 
patient-centric services respectively.
EMIS Care
In December 2014 we acquired Medical Imaging, our specialist 
provider of grading and assessment services to support diabetic 
eye screening programmes. During 2015, we will also launch EMIS 
Care. EMIS Care will be the arm of EMIS Group that provides 
technical and administrative assistance to clinicians. 
Creating the EMIS Care brand will enable the Group to leverage 
the brand equity in the EMIS name and provide a distinction 
between the two arms of the business.
The EMIS Care brand will provide expert healthcare support 
services to clinicians helping them deliver faster, better 
and cheaper healthcare for everyone.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
EMIS Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014
