 the company has invested in 22 new companies
in 13 different countries, targeting economies
and staffing markets that the Board believes
have high growth potential. Empresaria is now
represented in India and China, in Japan and
countries across South East Asia, in Poland and
other Eastern European countries. The positive
impact of this change in strategic focus is now
beginning to be reflected in the Group’s
financial performance.
Financial performance
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2006
increased by 40% to £75.5m and net fee income
(gross profit) increased by 42% to £21.8m. 
Profit before tax (before goodwill amortisation)
increased to £2.89m from £2.23m, a rise of 30%.
For the first time we experienced the impact 
of the increasing contribution of international
companies to Group net fee income. In 2005,
contribution of non-UK companies was 3%. In
2006 it rose to 19%. This figure would have 
been higher but for the strong growth
experienced in the UK and the excellent
financial performance of a number of the
Group’s UK companies. 
Group strategy
Empresaria’s strategy is to develop an
international specialist staffing group,
balanced in terms of sector, geographic and
operational coverage, as well as organic and
acquisitive growth. 
Underpinning this strategy is the philosophy 
of management equity. Since the Group started
operations ten years ago both strategy and
structure have been shaped by the importance
attached to aligning the interests of
shareholders and management teams through
sharing risk and reward through equity
participation. There are now over 34 companies
within the Group and each one, in each
country, is characterised by management
retaining a shared interest in long term success
through a meaningful equity stake. 
Overview 2006
The year 2006 has been one of strong
performance with rapid progress being 
made in creating a balanced international
specialist staffing group. Empresaria is a
leading example of a new generation of
international staffing company seeking to
develop a multi-specialist sector, multi-
geographical presence without the burden 
of a significant trading presence in the
traditional clerical and industrial staffing
markets.
It has now been just over two years since
Empresaria began its transformation from a 
UK focused organisation to a truly
international operation. Since moving from
OFEX/Plus Markets to AiM in November 2004
Empresaria Group plc   Report & Accounts 2006
Chairman’s statement 6
There are now over 34
companies within the
Group and each one, in
each country, is
characterised by
management retaining a
shared interest in long
term success through a
meaningful equity stake.
Tony Martin
Chairman
The Group has enjoyed a strong start to 2007
and investments made in start up companies
during 2006 are now bearing fruit.  0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60%
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
Contribution of Temporary
Businesses to Total Gross
Profit, 2002-2006
0100200300400
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
Number of employees, 
2002-2006
is based close to Munich in Germany. Germany
has one of the most rapidly growing staffing
markets in Europe moving from a €5.9billion
per annum market in 2003 to an €8.6 billion 
per annum market in 2006. The market is
characterised by recent regulatory
liberalisation, a growing desire for flexibility
amongst clients and an increasing acceptance
of the concept of temporary and contract
staffing which is beginning to extend to
business professionals, facilitating further
specialisation of the market in the future. 
The company has grown rapidly over the last
two years, developing vertical market
specialisations as the staffing market has
evolved. As well as operating from 47 branches,
most of which are in Germany, the company
also has a presence in both Austria and the
Czech Republic. This acquisition represents a
significant accelerator in the Group’s
development and in Empresaria’s expansion
into new emerging markets.
Empresaria’s people
As ever, the success we have enjoyed this year
would not have been possible without the
commitment and enthusiasm of all those
working within the Group. We would like to
take this opportunity to express our
appreciation for all their hard work.
Current trading and outlook
As reported in our trading update in February,
the Group has enjoyed a strong start to the 
year from most markets. Investments made 
in start up companies during 2006 are now
beginning to bear fruit. When combined 
with the contribution from more established
companies operating in growing markets, this
potent mixture gives confidence for the
current year.
Tony Martin
Chairman
19 April 2007
The Group structure reflects this philosophy.
Operations are decentralised with day to day
management autonomy remaining local. A
small central operation focuses on financial
planning and control, group development and
administration. For individual management
teams the arrangements offer a combination of
support, responsibility and independence. For
the Group, the structure offers the benefits of
scale. Central costs will not rise over time in
line with revenue growth. As Empresaria
continues to grow the conversion rate of gross
margin to net margin will improve.
Moving from strategy to objective, the Group’s
long term objective is to establish a geographic
footprint in diverse markets and economies.
The primary focus is on emerging markets or
markets where structural changes have created
staffing industry opportunities. In emerging
markets it is often the case that there is little
or no current sign of market segmentation into
specialist sector operations. Where this is the
case the Group’s approach is to identify a partner
that shares a common goal to develop specialist
staffing niches as the market evolves. In the
longer term, Empresaria will operate in both
developing and developed economies, targeting
business environments where the Empresaria
management equity philosophy, structure and
operational strategy are well received. The
sequence and timing of investments across
different countries will depend to a degree on
where opportunities emerge.
The rationale for developing this portfolio of
operations, diversified both by geography and
market sector, is to maintain consistent,
sustainable high growth whilst managing risk
and reducing volatility. 
Acquisition
On 5th April Empresaria announced that it 
had reached agreement, subject to shareholder
approval and funding, to acquire 60% of
headwayholding GmbH (Headway). Headway 
Empresaria Group plc   Report & Accounts 2006
Chairman’s statement 7
The Group’s long term
objective is to establish a
geographic footprint in
diverse markets and
economies with a focus
on emerging markets.
