 Empresaria can for the first time be accurately
described as a truly international specialist
staffing group.
Group development
focus is on emerging
economies and
developing staffing
markets.
Overview 2007
2007 was a transformational and highly
successful year for the Group. Revenues, net
fee income (gross profit) and pre-tax profits
doubled in the year, driven by a combination 
of strong organic growth from established
businesses, increasing contribution from recent
start up investments and strong profits from
acquisitions. Of greater significance, however,
was the transformation in the shape and mix of
the business. In 2005 the Group derived 97%
of its net fee income from the UK. In 2007 the
net fee income split was approximately 50:50
and in 2008 we expect almost 70% to come
from markets outside the UK.
It is not just the proportion of income generated
outside the UK that is of importance but where
that income derives from. Group development
focus is on emerging economies and
developing staffing markets. Following the
acquisition of Headway in May 2007, the Group
generates approximately the same net fee
income from Germany – one of the fastest
growing staffing markets in Europe – as it does
the UK. In addition, Empresaria has high growth
operations in countries such as Japan, India,
China and Indonesia, each with high
development potential.
Empresaria can for the first time be accurately
described as a truly international specialist
staffing group, becoming increasingly balanced
in terms of sector, geography and operational
mix. The fact that it is not weighed down, as
other staffing groups are, by large clerical and
industrial staffing operations, we believe creates
significant potential for future relative out-
performance. Further, the natural diversification
of investment across sectors and geographies
should provide resilience in times of economic
uncertainty. 
Financial performance
Revenues for the year ended 31 December
2007 increased by 96% to £147.8m and 
net fee income increased by 95% to £42.4m, 
a slightly higher figure than indicated in the
February trading statement following revision of
the impact of currency fluctuations and a review
of the fair value of acquisitions. Profit before tax
(adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets)
increased by 114% to £6.2m. Although these
figures include seven months of contribution
from our acquisition of Headway in Germany,
they also reflect the strong organic growth
contribution from our established UK
companies and the benefit of improved
profitability as central costs are absorbed
across a broader Group network.
Group strategy
Empresaria’s strategy is to develop an
international specialist staffing group, balanced
in terms of sector, geography and operational
mix and driven by a combination of organic and
acquisitive growth. 
Both Group strategy and structure follow the
underpinning philosophy of management equity
and the importance of aligning the interests of
shareholders and individual Group company
management teams through sharing risk and
reward by way of equity participation.
4 Chairman’s Statement
Empresaria Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 
Tony Martin
Chairman Investments are made where management hold
and retain a meaningful stake in the business.
The Group’s decentralised structure also
reflects this philosophy with local management
retaining operational autonomy and central
functions focussing on financial planning and
control, Group development and administration.
For individual management teams this
arrangement offers a combination of support,
responsibility and independence. As Empresaria
grows the Group benefits from economies of
scale and improved rates of conversion of net
fee income to operating margin as central costs
are absorbed across a wider community.
The evolution of Empresaria to date can be
categorised broadly in two phases. The first
phase was the development from inception 
to the AiM float in late 2004. During this period
it established itself as a diversified UK-based
specialist staffing group, known for its
management equity philosophy and recognised
for its consistent strong financial performance.
Since 2004, the second phase, the Group has
been re-engineered. The strong philosophical
foundations and flexible corporate structure
remain the same but the development focus
has shifted to new geographic markets in 
order to gain access to higher growth
economies and markets at the same time 
as reducing dependency on the UK economic
and regulatory environment. Empresaria is 
now a different company to that of 2004 but 
its process of development is still at an early
stage. The Group is still unrepresented in the
majority of Continental European countries and
also South America where Chile forms the only
base of operations at present. As other markets
develop, particularly in the fast growing Asian
countries, there will be increased segmentation
and creation of new vertical staffing niches
which in turn will offer new opportunities for
investment. The speed of further expansion 
will be dictated by market conditions and on
identifying the right investment opportunities.
Empresaria’s people
The fantastic performance of the Group in 
2007 would not have been achieved without
the dedication, energy and enthusiasm of the
more than 1,000 people (including Associates)
now working within the Group. We would like 
to thank them all for their hard work and for
their contribution to Empresaria’s success.
Current trading and outlook
As stated in the trading statement in February,
the Group has enjoyed a good start to 2008.
Revenues and net fee income on a like-for-like
basis are ahead of 2007 and there is no
evidence of any material change in demand for
Group services. The heavy investment in start
up companies made in recent years, particularly
in the Asia region, is now starting to generate
financial returns. We continue to see strong
revenue growth in our Continental Europe
operations and, particularly in Germany, see
opportunities to improve operating margins. 
The outlook for the year needs to be
considered with the economic forecasts in
mind. In this context the Board is mindful of 
the challenges and opportunities that may be
faced in the coming months. Empresaria has no
meaningful direct exposure to the US economy.
Although Empresaria does have significant
operations in the UK, these are concentrated 
in large part on specialist sectors where there 
is still a shortage of skilled staff and, in the case
of our Property Services operations, where
demand is underpinned by long term
infrastructure projects. 
The diversification into emerging economies
and countries where recent labour market
liberalisation is creating growing demand 
for staffing solutions is anticipated to offset
softening markets elsewhere. In both relative
and absolute terms we believe Empresaria 
is strongly positioned to take advantage 
of increased opportunities created as a
consequence of economic downturn or 
market disruption.
With these factors in mind the Board is
cautiously optimistic as to the outlook for 
the current year.
Tony Martin
Chairman
17 April 2008
Empresaria Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 
Chairman’s Statement 5
Contribution of temporary
business to total net fee income
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
Number of internal employees
0 200 400 600 800
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
The fantastic
performance of the
Group in 2007 would 
not have been achieved
without the dedication,
energy and enthusiasm
of the more than 
1,000 people.
