 Empresaria Group plc Report and Accounts 2008 
4 Chairman’s Statement
2008 was a satisfactory year for the Group 
in what was an increasingly challenging global 
economic environment.
Geographic diversity is 
aligned to a management 
equity philosophy ...  
that has in previous 
market downturns 
contributed significant, 
valuable resilience and 
flexibility to our 
operations.
Overview 2008
2008 was a satisfactory year for the Group  
in what was an increasingly challenging global 
economic environment. Revenues and net  
fee income increased significantly in the year, 
underlying profit levels remained constant and 
the mix of business continued to change with 
the majority (59%) of net fee income being 
derived from outside the UK (2007: 51%).
Group strategy
During 2008, Empresaria continued to 
implement its strategy of developing an 
international specialist staffing group balanced 
both in terms of sector focus and geographical 
coverage. In the year, the Group invested in a 
number of small companies as well as start-up 
operations and new branches for the existing 
network. It now operates through approximately 
140 individual branches, spread over 20 
different countries and with more than 1,000 
internal staff.  
The Group is in the early stages of its 
development. Investment is heavily focused on 
emerging economies and staffing markets, in 
particular those that are relatively new to the 
concept of flexible employment solutions. Our 
objective is to establish a footprint in those 
markets where we anticipate staffing industry 
development over time. Our priority at this 
stage is to establish and grow this business 
base, delivering high quality services. In each 
case we have been investing for growth and 
sustainable returns rather than short term profit, 
although we have seen profits grow in individual 
companies and markets as they develop. In 
each of our geographical territories our market 
share is relatively small, leaving significant 
scope for expansion.  
This geographic diversity is aligned to a 
management equity philosophy, enabling 
business managers to hold significant equity 
stakes in their business. This ownership culture, 
combined with a decentralised management 
structure and a balance of industry sector 
exposure, has in previous market downturns 
contributed significant, valuable resilience and 
flexibility to our operations.
The rapid change in the economic environment 
poses tough challenges to all companies but 
equally creates opportunities. Our focus is  
on managing within the current constraints  
of an increasingly difficult trading environment 
whilst being aware of, and attuned to, market 
opportunities. We view the Group as a portfolio 
of companies, in each case supported by us  
as they develop and grow. These holdings are 
constantly reviewed in terms of performance 
levels and their potential to contribute to  
Group success.
Financial performance
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 
2008 increased by 41% to £207.7m and net 
fee income increased by 21% to £51.5m. Profit 
before tax (adjusted for intangible amortisation 
and exceptional items) increased by 3% to 
£6.4m. The Group did incur one off exceptional 
costs of £4.8m in the year which reduced 
Tony Martin
Chairman Empresaria Group plc Report and Accounts 2008
 Chairman’s Statement 5
statutory profits. These exceptional costs 
related to asset impairments for certain  
of our portfolio companies and restructuring 
costs. Restructuring costs incurred or provided 
for totalled £1.6m and the actions taken are 
expected to reduce annual operating costs  
by approximately £3.0m in 2009. 
Although trading cash inflows were £4.6m 
(2007: £1.4m), net debt increased in the year  
to £9.1m from £4.2m reflecting the revenue 
growth of the Group with the resultant increase 
in working capital requirements as well as 
continued investment activity. In December 
2008 the Group increased its revolving  
credit facility with HSBC to meet its financing 
requirements, details of which are set out  
in the Financial Review.
Empresaria’s people
Empresaria’s success is built on the passion, 
commitment and hard work of our people.  
In increasingly challenging market conditions, 
our ability to adapt and to seek out the 
opportunities that exist depends on the 
flexibility, support and positive attitude of all  
of those working in the Group. Now, more than 
ever, we would like to take this opportunity to 
thank them for their contribution to our 
success.
Current trading and outlook
As stated in the trading statement in January 
the Group was able to grow revenues during 
the last quarter of 2008, counter to industry 
and market trends.  
Our Continental European operations, 
particularly in Germany, have been affected  
by the longer than anticipated factory shut 
downs in January which, combined with 
reduced demand for technical workers within 
the manufacturing sectors, has led to a decline 
in revenues in the first few months of the year.
The UK and Rest of the World regions  
have started the year in January in line with 
expectations. Performance in February was 
more mixed. The Rest of the World region  
has continued to show year on year growth  
at revenue and net fee income levels and the 
UK has continued to grow in revenue terms. 
However UK net fee income year to date is 
down on the prior year. 
With the steps that have already been taken 
and that are planned to shield the Group 
against the present slowdown and with  
the growth opportunities that are apparent  
even now, Empresaria has started the current 
year with optimism, although we are, at the 
same time, realistic as to the current market 
challenges. Any assessment of outlook for the 
year is difficult given the prevailing uncertain 
economic outlook; however, the Board remains 
confident of the prospects for the Group.
Tony Martin
Chairman
30 March 2009
Contribution of temporary 
business to total gross profit
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
Number of internal employees
0 200 400 600 800
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
Empresaria’s success  
is built on the passion, 
commitment and hard 
work of our people.
1,000
