 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2010
06
Business review
Chief Executive’s business review
Our primary business 
objectives are to create 
sustainable growth  
in adjusted EPS and to  
be a leading international 
diversified and specialist 
staffing Group.
Miles Hunt 
Chief Executive
Group results
The Group has delivered a strong performance in the year 
under review, reporting a 17% increase in revenue to £223.4m, 
and a 21% increase in net fee income (gross profit) to £49.0m. 
These results reflect a combination of improved market 
conditions generally, plus growth in demand for our services  
in our key staffing markets.
Each of our reporting regions delivered improved performances, 
most notably the Rest of the World region, where our maturing 
Asian businesses helped to contribute to a 31% increase in  
net fee income over 2009. The Asian economies were not as 
severely affected by the worldwide economic decline in 2009 
and our investments over the past five years are now generating 
material profits. The region continues to be a focus for Group 
expansion. In January 2011 we opened a new hub office in 
Singapore which has allowed Group companies to enter this 
market at a lower cost and risk. At launch there were four 
brands operating for the first time in Singapore.
Our Continental Europe region also performed well, helped 
predominantly by the strength of the recovery of the German 
economy and by growing demand for healthcare workers in 
Scandinavia. Net fee income in this region grew by 21% to 
£21.9m (2009: £18.1m). 
Growth was more modest in the UK, reflecting the maturity  
of the staffing market and the relatively poor economic 
environment. Despite this, net fee income still grew by  
15% to £17.0m (2009: £14.8m).
Overall gross margin for 2010 was 22% (2009: 21%). This 
increase was mainly driven by growth in our permanent 
revenue, which increased by 58% over 2009 and contributed 
26% of Group net fee income (2009: 20%). The Group’s 
temporary revenue increased by 15%, with margins maintained 
at 18% despite some margin erosion in Germany.  Business review
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2010
07
Administrative costs increased by 13% to £41.2m (2009: 
£36.3m), a lower rate than the increase in net fee income, 
mainly as a result of higher staff costs, due to performance 
related commissions and bonuses and the start of investments 
in headcount to drive future growth in the business.
Cash generated from operations in the year was £8.3m (2009: 
£3.4m). After accounting for tax and interest, the Group 
generated free cash flow of £5.1m, with £2.9m used to acquire 
management equity and fixed assets and £1.1m to pay 
dividends to shareholders and to holders of minority interests  
in the subsidiaries. Group net debt reduced to £6.1m at the end 
of 2010 (2009: £8.0m).
Business overview
The principal activity of the business is the provision of 
recruitment services on a permanent and temporary contract 
basis in the regions of the UK, Continental Europe and 
Rest of the world (comprising Asia Pacific and South America). 
Activities also include Recruitment Process Outsourcing,  
HR consulting and training services.
Management equity
The key managers within the operating companies hold shares 
in their company, so aligning the interests of shareholders and 
the management team through the sharing of risks and rewards 
of equity participation. This acts as an important incentive to 
grow their business and fosters an entrepreneurial spirit.
The shareholdings held by management vary by company but 
will range from 49% to less than 5%, depending on the stage of 
development of the company. The opportunity to invest directly 
in a Group company is also used to attract experienced and 
ambitious individuals to the Group.
Autonomous, decentralised structure
The Group operates in a highly decentralised structure, with 
autonomous operating companies managed by entrepreneurial 
teams, with a small central team focussing on financial 
planning and control, Group development and administration.
The operating companies have commercial autonomy and 
responsibility, and are run by local teams who have local 
knowledge and experience and are able to react to changes in 
the local markets. They operate under strict financial controls, 
overseen centrally.
The management teams are encouraged to develop their 
businesses and drive organic growth. Whilst the Group 
operates through separate brands and management teams, key 
staff from individual Group companies meet regularly to explore 
how they can work better together and exploit the skills and 
capabilities of other Group companies for their own business.
