 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2010
04
Overview
Chairman’s statement
The Group performed 
strongly in the year, with 
impressive net fee income 
and profit growth across 
all regions.
Tony Martin 
Chairman
Overview 2010
The Group performed strongly in the year, in line with 
expectations that were revised upwards on a number of 
occasions. The focus during 2010 has been on strengthening 
our operations throughout the world through investment in new 
capabilities and resources within our existing businesses. This 
approach has paid dividends in the form of impressive net fee 
income and profit growth, with revenues and profit before tax  
in the year exceeding previous highs. 
Group strategy
Group strategy is to continue to develop an international, 
multi-sector specialist staffing Group balanced both in terms  
of sector and geographical coverage, with an investment focus 
on developing staffing markets and emerging economies. This 
combination of diversification and international market focus  
is designed to mitigate market volatility at the same time as 
creating greater growth opportunities. Underpinning this 
strategy is the philosophy of management equity, with 
operating company management teams investing directly  
in their own businesses, thereby aligning management and 
shareholder interests.
Since moving to AIM in late 2004 Empresaria has taken a 
number of steps in the implementation of this strategy. It has 
moved from being 100% UK focussed to now having only one 
third of its net fee income generated in the UK, with meaningful 
exposure to some of the fastest growing staffing markets in the 
world. The Group has still though some way to go to achieve its 
strategic objectives. Focus will be on continuing to strengthen 
and expand our existing brands and capabilities, on re-shaping 
the Group to increase the contribution from professional 
staffing operations, and on expanding into new geographies 
with growth potential.
Financial performance
Revenue for the year grew 17% to £223.4m (2009: £190.5m) and 
net fee income increased 21% to £49.0m (2009: £40.6m). Profit 
before tax (adjusted for intangible amortisation and exceptional 
items) increased 94% to £6.8m (2009: £3.5m). There were no 
exceptional items in the current year.
Revenue, net fee income and profits grew across all reporting 
regions. The significant increase in profit contribution from 
companies operating in Asia reflects the maturing nature of 
these companies, almost all green-field start ups of recent 
years, and of their future growth potential. Overview
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2010
05
The Group was strongly cash generative in the year such that, 
despite investments in working capital to support growth and 
the acquisition of minority shareholdings, reported net debt 
reduced by £1.9m to £6.1m at the year end (2009: £8.0m).
Dividend
For the year ended 31 December 2010, the board is proposing  
a dividend of 0.35p per share (2009: 0.35p per share) which,  
if approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting, will be paid on 15 August 2011 to shareholders on  
the register on 15 July 2011.
Empresaria people
The number of people working within the Group, across the 
world, grew in 2010 from 763 to 883 at the year end. 
Empresaria’s success is largely dependent on their efforts and 
contribution. We recognise the importance of our people and 
seek to demonstrate this at Group level in a number of ways. 
These include the promotion of the newly launched International 
Recruitment MBA programme within the Group and the 
development of consultant exchange programmes between 
companies and countries. The board would like to thank them 
for all of their hard work and achievement in the year.
Current trading and outlook
Group operations around the world continue to benefit from 
broadly positive market environments. Our South East Asia 
markets have been particularly strong in recent months. The 
two geographies where we are experiencing some challenges 
and market uncertainty are Japan and Germany. In the case of 
Japan, our two trading companies have both been adversely 
affected by the earthquake and tsunami and we do expect some 
months of further disruption. In the case of Germany, recent 
legal challenges to certain collective labour agreements have 
created some short-term market turbulence and gross margin 
erosion as well as exposed a significant number of staffing 
companies operating in Germany to possible future claims from 
third parties. 
Forward visibility, as ever, remains somewhat limited but the 
Group is well positioned to benefit from its exposure to growing 
markets as well as from its continued investment in people and 
capabilities.
Tony Martin
Chairman
30 March 2011
The number of people working within the 
Group, across the world, grew in 2010 to 883 
at the year end.
Image above supplied by FastTrack 
Management Services.
Employees
(at year end)
2010 2009
UK 215 185
Europe 220 210
Rest of the world 448 354
