 04 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
Overview
Chairman’s statement
Resilience despite results being overshadowed by Germany
While our overall performance this year did not meet  
our expectations, we have nevertheless shown resilience 
through our business model and see encouraging 
opportunities for growth.
Overview of performance in 2011
The UK and Rest of the World regions grew net fee income  
by 5% and 19% respectively. However, the Group as a whole 
experienced a 1% growth in revenue and net fee income, with 
adjusted profit before tax down 32% to £4.5m and adjusted 
EPS down 35% to 4.0p. The major reason for this was lower 
profits in Germany, where the adoption of new collective 
bargaining agreements, following court rulings, required us 
to increase the pay rates for some of our temporary workers 
and to incur significant legal fees. This has had a negative 
impact on margins and while we have seen an improvement 
in gross margin over the second half of the year, it still 
remains below historic levels. We have obtained greater 
clarity on the potential exposure against retrospective  
pay claims from temporary workers and social security 
contributions in relation to these court rulings. This has  
lead us to reduce the provision that we made at the half  
year of £3.0m to £1.7m at the year end, reflecting the lower 
expected exposure. 
The year also saw the terrible earthquake and tsunami in 
Japan which resulted in the Japanese economy entering into 
recession by the end of the year. We are thankful that all  
of our staff were safe and the strong leadership exhibited  
by our local management teams helped both our businesses 
to achieve comparable profits with the prior year.
We have continued to reduce our reported net debt, which 
was down to £5.6m at year end (2010: £6.1m), despite further 
investment in working capital to support the revenue growth 
and set up of new offices in the Rest of the World region.  
This investment has seen four of our existing brands 
establish themselves in new markets during the year and 
demonstrates our continued commitment to generate organic 
profit growth from our existing Group.
Board
As reported at the half year, Miles Hunt has decided to leave 
the Group to pursue other opportunities. He ceased to be the 
Chief Executive Officer as at 31 December 2011, but remains 
on the Board until 31 March 2012 as a Non-executive Director. 
He has overseen a smooth transition to Joost Kreulen, who 
became Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2012.
Joost has been with the Group since 2009, initially 
responsible for our Asian operations and more recently also 
for a number of our UK based businesses. Prior to joining 
Empresaria Joost was head of specialist staffing operations 
for Vedior in the Netherlands as well as being responsible for 
business development within Northern Europe and Germany. 
Anthony Martin
Chairman Overview
05 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
The ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Awards,  
now in their third year, are an initiative launched by ICSA  
in partnership with Hermes Equity Ownership Services.  
 
“We are delighted to have won the award  
for best small cap and AIM report for 2011.”
Anne-Marie Clarke
Company Secretary
The Board would like to thank Miles for his enormous 
contribution to the development of Empresaria since 
formation in 1996, during which time the Group has grown 
from a start up in one office, armed only with a management 
philosophy and a vision for growth, into a specialist staffing 
group stretching across 19 countries.
People
The number of people working within the Group fell to 803  
at the end of 2011, down from 883 the previous year. The 
average number of staff throughout the year was 848, up from 
832 in the previous year. The lower number at the year-end 
reflects the loss of 85 staff from businesses that were 
disposed of during the year. Empresaria’s success is largely 
dependent on the efforts and contribution of its people and  
the Board would like to thank them for all of their hard work 
in the year.
Dividend
The priorities for our free cash flow remain to invest in 
developing our business and to strengthen our balance sheet, 
while supporting a sustainable dividend policy. For the year 
ended 31 December 2011, the Board is proposing to maintain 
a dividend of 0.35p per share (2010: 0.35p per share) which, if 
approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting, will be paid on 16 July 2012 to shareholders on the 
register on 15 June 2012.
Governance
Development and delivery of Group strategy must be 
supported by sound corporate governance practices that are 
appropriate to the size and philosophy of the Group. Since  
the Group moved to AIM in late 2004, strategic development 
has lead to an increase in the size and spread of the Group,  
in terms of both sector and geography, with a focus on 
developing staffing markets and emerging economies. 
Underpinning Group strategy we continue with the 
philosophy of management equity, with operating company 
management teams investing directly in their own businesses 
thereby aligning management and shareholder interests.  
The increased size and spread of the Group, together with  
the philosophy of management equity, has required the 
development and provision of a sound corporate governance 
framework. The Board continue to develop and enhance the 
Group’s corporate governance arrangements in line with the 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, balancing 
the need to operate the Group in an efficient, effective and 
ethical manner whilst allowing entrepreneurial management 
teams to operate to deliver the strategic goals of the Group. 
Further details on the corporate governance arrangements 
the Group has implemented can be found in the Corporate 
Governance sections of this report.
We were delighted to receive external recognition for the 
communication of our corporate governance reporting, 
winning the 2011 ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance 
award for best annual report in the AIM/small cap companies 
category.
Current trading and outlook
Global economic conditions remain uncertain and while we 
continue to see generally good candidate and client demand, 
confidence is fragile and necessitates a cautious approach, 
especially in the UK and Continental Europe. The Group 
trades in many emerging markets across the world and we 
see opportunities for organic growth across these regions  
and expect to see improved returns for the year ahead.
Anthony Martin
Chairman
20 March 2012
