 10 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
A sound strategy
Despite the setbacks in Germany, we are confident that  
our strategy and business model will deliver growth into  
the long-term.
Chief Executive Officer’s business review
Introduction
This is my first set of results as Chief Executive Officer, 
which I became with effect from 1 January 2012. I initially 
joined Empresaria at the beginning of 2009 with a focus on 
the Asia region only. Since assuming the role of CEO I have 
had the opportunity to extend my knowledge of the Group 
across all of its regions and to work closely with all of our 
businesses. I am encouraged by the management strength 
throughout our regions and I believe this will help us deliver 
good organic growth. 
Group results overview
The Group generated revenue of £208.9m, an increase of 1% 
over the prior year and net fee income (gross profit) of £46.9m, 
also up 1% on 2010. Within this, performance across our 
operating regions was variable, reflecting their different 
market conditions during the year. 
In the Rest of the World region revenue grew by 13% to 
£39.2m (2010: £34.7m) and net fee income grew by 19%  
to £11.2m (2010: £9.4m). Our Asian and South American 
businesses continued to improve their gross profit contribution 
to the Group with good performances from Indonesia, 
Thailand and Chile in particular. This region was the main 
focus for expansion in the year, with new offices and 
branches opened in Singapore, Australia and China across 
six of our brands. The economic conditions in this region are 
generally more positive than in Europe and we see further 
opportunities for growth. In March 2011 Japan suffered from 
a natural disaster with an earthquake and resulting tsunami 
having a devastating effect on the country. Despite this, our 
two businesses performed very well with revenue and net fee 
income growth year on year and adjusted operating profit 
level with 2010. In total the adjusted operating profit for the 
region was down on the prior year at £1.1m, mainly due to  
the significant investment in setting up the new offices.
In the UK revenue was down 8% to £67.0m (2010: £72.7m)  
but net fee income was up 5% at £16.0m (2010: £15.2m).  
As highlighted last year, our infrastructure and construction 
operations are moving away from lower margin contracts  
to focus on more value added and higher margin business. 
Adjusted operating profit was £2.0m, level with 2010, 
following increases in staff costs and bad debts.
In Continental Europe, revenue increased by 3% to £102.7m 
(2010: £99.4m), but net fee income declined by 10% to £19.7m 
(2010: £21.9m). The operations in Continental Europe are 
primarily temporary staffing and heavily weighted to 
Germany and Austria, which together represent 86% of the 
regional net fee income. The reduction in profit is mainly due 
to the lower margins in Germany resulting from the change  
in pay tariffs for temporary workers following the legal ruling 
at the end of 2010 relating to certain collective bargaining 
Joost Kreulen
Chief Executive Officer Business review
11 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
agreements. These costs were not able to be fully passed on 
to clients or offset through cost savings elsewhere and, while 
margins improved in the second half of the year, they are still 
below historic levels. We saw improved results in our 
healthcare business in Finland, however, overall adjusted 
operating profit for Continental Europe declined to £2.2m 
(2010: £3.9m).
Overall Group gross margin was 22.5%, the same as last 
year, with a 21% increase in permanent revenue helping to 
offset flat temporary revenue and a reduced temporary margin 
of 17.3% (2010: 18.1%). Permanent sales contributed 29%  
of the Group net fee income (2010: 26%).
Cash generated from operations in the year was £3.9m  
(2010: £8.3m). After accounting for tax and interest, the Group 
generated free cash flow (being net cash from operating 
activities) of £1.2m (2010: £5.1m), with £2.0m used to acquire 
equity held by management in subsidiary companies and 
fixed assets and £0.3m to pay dividends to shareholders  
and to holders of minority shares in subsidiaries. There was  
a cash inflow of £1.0m from disposal proceeds. Group net 
debt at the year-end was £5.6m (2010: £6.1m).
Priorities
There are some clear immediate priorities; improving the 
margins in Germany and ensuring that the lower profit 
businesses and the investments made in 2011 deliver growth 
and increased profit for 2012 are the key focus areas for the 
whole management team. While we remain open to external 
investment opportunities, we do expect to focus on our 
existing operations over the next year. 
Business development
The Group has continued to invest in new geographic 
markets as part of its diversification strategy. With the help  
of the hub concept in Singapore, four brands are now 
established in this market and are expected to make a 
positive contribution to profits in 2012. We have also invested 
in new branches in China and Australia. In January 2012  
we opened our first office in Hong Kong, focussing on the 
financial services sector.
We continue to position the Group to increase our exposure  
to white collar and professional recruitment and to improve 
conversion ratios and working capital efficiency. In the first 
half of the year we disposed of our interest in a primarily blue 
collar UK logistics operation to its management team and  
in the second half of the year we sold our Indonesian payroll 
outsourcing business to an Australian trade buyer. These 
transactions have removed low margin, low profit businesses 
from the Group, generated cash proceeds of £1.0m and 
reduced our exposure to overseas debt finance.
Business overview
The principal activity of the business is the provision of 
recruitment services on a permanent and temporary contract 
basis in the regions of the UK, Continental Europe and Rest 
of the World (comprising Asia Pacific and South America). 
Activities also include Recruitment Process Outsourcing,  
HR consulting and training services.
Organisational structure
The Group has a small central team, mostly based at the  
head office in Crawley, which has a focus on finance,  
legal & company secretarial matters and strategic oversight. 
The Group is divided into three key reporting regions of  
UK, Continental Europe and Rest of the World, with each 
region overseen by a Regional director. I have retained the 
operational responsibility for the UK and Rest of the World 
regions for now as I believe it is important to maintain  
regular contact with the operating managers and, in a people 
business such as this, it is the only way to understand the 
issues and opportunities within each business. The day  
to day running of the Group is delegated to an executive 
committee of the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance 
Director and Regional director for Continental Europe  
(the Board of Management).
Operational culture
The Group operates with a decentralised structure, with  
high levels of local commercial autonomy for the managing 
directors of the operating companies, who are encouraged to 
develop their businesses to deliver organic growth, within the 
overall framework of central financial controls and reporting 
requirements and sound corporate governance. The operating 
companies are run by locally based managers who have the 
knowledge and experience of their markets and so are able  
to react quickly to changes as they occur.
The core philosophy of the Group is for senior managers  
to take an equity holding in their companies, to align their 
interests with shareholders through the sharing of the risks 
and rewards of equity participation. We believe this is  
a strong incentive for them to grow their businesses and  
to see a long-term future within the Empresaria Group, while 
providing them with the support and investment to allow 
them to realise their ambitions.
We organise a leader’s conference every eighteen months for 
our operating managing directors and central management 
which provides the opportunity to update everyone on Group 
matters, to introduce new business ideas and opportunities 
from around the Group and to allow everyone to network in 
an informal setting. The last conference was held in Thailand 
in November 2011 and was a great success. 12 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Driving organic growth
Our drive for organic growth  
is focussed on the development  
of strong international brands.
Chief Executive Officer’s  
business review
 
 
 
 
Become 
Locations: UK, Australia 
Sector: Creative Design
Celebrating 15 years of operations  
in the UK in 2012, Become launched  
its second Australian office in 
Melbourne in 2011, to complement  
its existing business in Sydney,  
which opened in 2007. Become places 
candidates into the creative industry, 
such as creatives, designers, digital 
experts, artworkers, studio managers 
and account managers. 
www.becomeuk.com
www.becomemelbourne.com.au
 
 
 
 
McCall 
Locations: UK,  
Australia, Singapore 
Sector: Recruitment  
to recruitment
McCall was first established in 1992 
and helps find candidates for 
recruitment companies, from junior 
consultants to board positions. McCall 
has operated internationally since 2006 
through a dedicated UK team, but in 
2011 it opened two new offices, one in 
Singapore (to target the South East Asia 
and Far East markets) and the other  
in Sydney (to target the Australia and 
New Zealand markets).
www.mccall.co.uk Business review
13 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
 
 
 
 
Learning Resources 
Locations: Indonesia, 
Singapore 
Sector: Training services
Learning Resources is one of the 
leading training providers in Indonesia, 
where the business has developed and 
grown. Serving all business sectors, 
Learning Resources opened a new 
office in Singapore in 2011 and has also 
begun supplying e-learning materials to 
Empresaria’s Malaysian subsidiary.  
The services offered include classroom 
training, e-assessments, e-learning, 
video training, ROI measurement and 
training reinforcement tools.
www.learningresources.co.id
 
 
 
 
Monroe Consulting 
Group 
Locations: Indonesia, 
Thailand, Philippines, 
Singapore 
Sector: Executive search
Monroe has been operating in Thailand 
since 2002, in Indonesia since 2005, 
in the Philippines since 2007 and 
opened a new office in Singapore in 
2011. It focuses on executive jobs and 
candidates across South East Asia,  
with sector specialists in banking  
and finance, consumer goods,  
industrial and technology.
www.monroeconsulting.com
 
 
 
 
LMA Recruitment 
Locations: UK, Singapore, 
Hong Kong 
Sector: Financial services
LMA has been operating in London 
since 1999, but has expanded 
internationally over the last year, 
starting in Singapore in 2011 and 
recently in Hong Kong at the beginning 
of 2012. LMA services the financial 
services sector, with specialist divisions 
covering banking, secretarial, human 
resources and risk and compliance.
www.lmarecruitment.com  14 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
 
Chief Executive Officer’s business review
Regional review
UK 
Operating performance
£m 2011 2010
Revenue 67.0 72.7
Net fee income 16.0 15.2
Adjusted operating profit 2.0 2.0
% of Group net fee income 34% 33%
Revenue decreased by 8% to £67.0m (2010: £72.7m), with  
a 12% increase in permanent revenue being offset by a 9% 
reduction in temporary revenue. Despite this, net fee income 
grew by 5% to £16.0m (2010: £15.2m) helped by the temporary 
margin improving by 2% on 2010. The reduction in revenue 
was largely as a result of our infrastructure and construction 
operations targeting higher margin and more value added 
contracts and reducing its exposure to the higher volume,  
low margin, highly competitive contracts, which also typically 
have longer payment terms. Overall UK gross margin 
increased to 24% (2010: 21%). Temporary staffing accounted 
for 60% of net fee income (2010: 64%) reflecting the improved 
permanent market. Adjusted operating profit of £2.0m was 
level with the prior year.
The market conditions were good in the first half of 2011,  
but growth rates slowed in the second half and in particular 
in the final quarter. However, net fee income grew each 
quarter against 2010.
Our Infrastructure and Construction businesses experienced 
lower temporary revenue, albeit at higher margins, and an 
increase in permanent revenue, so delivering an improved  
net fee income. Costs increased due to staff costs and bad 
debts. The outlook for publicly sponsored infrastructure 
projects appears to be improving and the new regional and 
airport offices performed well in the year.
In Financial services, revenues grew again, in particular from 
permanent positions. Competition is strong in this market 
and this is keeping temporary margins in line with the prior 
year. The outlook for the sector is cautious, given the ongoing 
Euro crisis and potential impact on the banking industry.  
The LMA Recruitment brand expanded into Singapore in 
2011 and more recently opened an office in Hong Kong, to 
help deliver growth outside of the London market.
Within our Other brands category we have experienced 
mixed performances, with improved results in particular from 
our creative and retail brands and investment in our domestic 
services brand. However, the recruitment-to-recruitment 
business, McCall, experienced slow market conditions, 
especially in the second half, as a number of recruitment 
companies ceased investing.
In May 2011 the Group disposed of its UK Supply Chain 
business operated by The Logistics Network Limited and 
More Driving Limited to a management lead team. This was  
a low margin and low profit operation which was exposed  
to the fragile UK retail sector. The transaction resulted in  
a loss on disposal, largely due to the write off of goodwill but 
did generate cash inflow for the Group of £0.2m in the year, 
with a further £0.1m due by the end of 2014. Business review
15 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
Continental Europe 
Operating performance
£m 2011 2010
Revenue 102.7 99.4
Net fee income 19.7 21.9
Adjusted operating profit 2.2 3.9
% of Group net fee income 42% 47%
Revenue grew by 3% to £102.7m (2010: £99.4m) but there was 
a decline in net fee income of 10% to £19.7m (2010: £21.9m). 
There has been pressure on margins across the region, with 
gross margin falling to 19% (2010: 22%). While cost savings 
were achieved, these were not sufficient to offset the fall in 
gross profit, resulting in adjusted operating profit of £2.2m 
(2010: £3.9m).
The German economy has been the most resilient in Europe 
and currently enjoys historically low unemployment rates. 
However, we were not able to benefit fully from this during 
2011. Revenue in Germany was slightly down against 2010 
but the pressure on margins resulted in significantly lower 
net fee income. This decline is a result of changes required  
to the pay tariffs used for our temporary workers in Germany, 
following a legal ruling at the end of 2010 relating to certain 
collective bargaining agreements. Many temporary workers 
have received an increase in pay and it was not possible to 
fully pass this on to all of our customers in the year. The total 
impact of the reduced margins, together with unplanned legal 
costs amounted to £2.6m lower profits when compared with 
2010. There was an improvement in gross margin in the 
second half of the year, but it remains below historic levels 
and further action is ongoing, as a management team priority, 
to improve this position. 
 
As a result of the legal challenge against certain collective 
bargaining agreements some of our German operations may 
be subject to retrospective pay claims and social security 
contributions. At the half year we recognised a provision for 
£3.0m as a best estimate of these potential costs. Since then 
we have received the audit results from the social security 
agency for the majority of our branches which provides a 
clearer estimate of their maximum claim and the likely timing 
for making payments to them. With this and an updated 
estimate of potential claims from workers for retrospective 
pay, at year-end we are recognising a reduced total provision 
of £1.7m, which we believe is sufficient to cover any potential 
liabilities from this issue albeit there remains some 
uncertainty as to the final outcome. It should be noted that  
the legal position in relation to the validity of retrospective 
claims is still subject to further court rulings. We have 
registered objections against the social security claims 
to protect our position in the event of a positive court ruling  
in the future.
As announced on 13 March 2012, since the year-end we have 
appointed a new managing director for our German business. 
We have reached an agreement with the previous managing 
director, who is a minority shareholder in the business, to 
re-structure the timings of the put and call options over his 
minority shares. We have agreed to purchase 6.7% of the 
shares in the German business from him for Euro 1.3m and 
have call options over the remaining 13.3% of the shares in 
the German business not already owned by us, which are 
exercisable through to January 2014.
Our healthcare staffing operations, based in Finland and 
Estonia, performed well again in 2011, with high revenue  
and net fee income growth. However, there was a reduction  
in margins due to both an investment in new dental clinics 
and a correction to the tax treatment of certain benefits 
provided to candidates. This resulted in an exceptional 
charge of £0.3m for one-off historic costs which, together  
with other non-recurring costs in the year, resulted in  
a lower increase in operating profit than in gross profit.  
The structural shortage of healthcare staff in Finland is 
expected to continue for the foreseeable future, so providing 
opportunities for the business to continue to grow.
Our specialist businesses in Czech Republic and Slovakia 
saw good growth in revenue and net fee income, following 
improving economic conditions and must now start delivering 
profitable growth. 16 Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
 
Chief Executive Officer’s business review
Regional review
Rest of the World 
Operating performance
£m 2011 2010
Revenue 39.2 34.7
Net fee income 11.2 9.4
Adjusted operating profit 1.1 1.5
% of Group net fee income 24% 20%
Revenue grew by 13% to £39.2m (2010: £34.7m) and net fee 
income grew by 19% to £11.2m (2010: £9.4m). This region has 
been the fastest growing again this year and now represents 
24% of the Group net fee income. Permanent revenue grew  
by 27% and temporary revenue grew by 10%, with temporary 
margins also improving over the prior year. Permanent 
recruitment, which includes the training and Recruitment 
Process Outsourcing (“RPO”) businesses in Indonesia and 
India respectively, contributed 60% of net fee income. 
Temporary recruitment revenue is primarily delivered from 
our businesses in Chile, Japan and Australia. The investment 
in new offices in Singapore, China and Australia had  
a negative impact on profit of approximately £0.6m, which  
is the main factor for the decline in adjusted operating profit 
to £1.1m (2010: £1.5m).
In Japan our operations were disrupted by the earthquake 
and tsunami in March 2011 and the resulting radiation scare, 
which stopped temporary workers from being able to work 
and slowed down the recruitment process across the country. 
Despite this, our businesses demonstrated resilience with 
revenue and net fee income growth. Profit was delivered at 
the same level as the prior year.
Within the South East Asia region we have seen continued 
strong growth in revenue and net fee income, although 
operating profit was down as a result of the investments  
in new office openings. There were particularly good 
performances from Indonesia and Thailand and the new 
operations in Singapore established themselves with good 
teams of consultants. The floods that paralysed large parts  
of Bangkok in the last quarter of 2011 had short-term timing 
issues for our business but we do not expect any more 
disruption from this in 2012.
In the second half of the year we disposed of our payroll 
outsourcing business in Indonesia to an Australian trade 
buyer. This was a low margin and low profit business that 
required a high level of working capital financing, and while  
it resulted in a marginal accounting loss on disposal, it 
generated cash proceeds of £0.8m, with a further £0.1m paid 
by the end of February 2012. Following this transaction our 
Indonesian businesses still represent 6% of the Group’s net 
fee income.
In India revenue was flat year-on-year but profitability was 
down due to the need to restructure the business following 
the loss of a key client in the RPO operation. There is also an 
exceptional provision of £0.2m in relation to a long-running 
historic contractual dispute. Aside from this there was  
good growth in other parts of the business, especially  
with outsourcing operations to US clients and in the global 
candidate sourcing division.
In China there has been a growth in profits due to a higher 
proportion of permanent recruitment. Investment has also 
been made in a new business which focuses on the 
recruitment process from a candidate perspective rather than 
the traditional company focus. This business is becoming 
well established and is expected to deliver good returns over 
the next few years.
In South America, our outsourcing business in Chile had 
good revenue and profit growth, after recovering from the 
market disruption in 2010 caused by the earthquake. Gross 
margin has improved, and remains a key area of focus.
Joost Kreulen
Chief Executive Officer
