 12
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
and has a better mix of clients going into 2013. The 
UK has performed consistently, despite the double-dip 
recession and particularly weak market conditions 
across the ﬁnancial services sector. In Continental Europe 
we have seen improvements in the Czech Republic and 
Slovakia, but these have been overshadowed by the 
reduced proﬁt from Germany. Proﬁt in Finland and Estonia 
was lower in the year as the business transitioned to a 
new management team.
Q Are the problems in Germany dealt with?
A Claims for retrospective pay and social security in 
Germany have been lower than originally anticipated, 
allowing a write back of the provision of £0.4m in the year. 
As at the end of 2012 we hold a provision of £1.0m which 
we believe is sufﬁcient to cover all current and potential 
liabilities for these claims. During the year, in light of 
the impacts of changing pay rate tariffs and a declining 
German economy, we have taken action to reduce 
costs and right-size our German temporary recruitment 
business, closing or merging 13 branch ofﬁces across 
Germany and Austria and reducing staff numbers by 13% 
on average. Whilst we anticipate another challenging year 
in Germany, principally due to the introduction of equal 
pay legislation across many industries from November 
2012, we believe the action taken during 2012 has helped 
put our business back on a proﬁtable growth trend and 
are conﬁdent of increased demand over the medium-term.
Q How has the Group performed in your ﬁrst year 
in charge?
A In 2012, we delivered an improved proﬁt performance 
over the prior year against the backdrop of challenging 
worldwide stafﬁng markets and ongoing economic 
uncertainties. During the year we had to resolve some 
speciﬁc operational issues, in particular in Chile and 
Germany, but strong foundations now exist across the 
Group which can provide the basis for sustainable growth 
despite continued volatility in some of our markets.
Group revenue and net fee income were marginally 
lower than in 2011, but a tight control of costs offset this 
and allowed us to deliver an increased operating proﬁt 
of £4.4m (2011: £2.8m) and proﬁt before tax of £3.6m 
(2011: £1.9m). On an adjusted basis, proﬁt before tax 
was £4.6m (2011: £4.5m).
Performance across the regions was mixed. Adjusted 
operating proﬁt grew 33% in the Rest of the World and 
12% in the UK, but it declined 23% in Continental Europe. 
The growth in the Rest of the World was driven by Asia-
Paciﬁc, with adjusted operating proﬁt up more than 50%. 
The region was the fastest growing in the Group again this 
year. In Chile the exit costs of an onerous loss-making 
contract resulted in a loss for the year. However there was 
a much better performance in the second half of the year 
and we are conﬁdent that the business is much stronger 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s business review
Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer, Joost Kreulen, 
answers some of 
the most frequently 
asked questions by 
shareholders. Business review
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
13
Q How will you grow the business in the future?
A Our focus over the last year has rightly been on the 
organic development of our existing business. We have 
made a number of investments over the last two years 
and believe the current Group has signiﬁcant potential for 
proﬁtable growth in the future. For example, we expect 
to see improvements in 2013 in Singapore, where our 
investments of 2011-2012 are starting to deliver.
We remain focused on delivering proﬁtable growth, 
optimising our delivery models and tightly managing 
costs to improve conversion ratios. We closely monitor 
the productivity and efﬁciency of the whole organisation 
and this will continue to be a key area of focus in 2013, 
as the global economic conditions remain difﬁcult and 
changeable. We are also looking at where we can make 
further investments in our brands to help them expand 
internationally and, whilst we remain focused on bringing 
down our overall debt, we will have a selective approach 
to external investments if the right opportunity comes up.
Q What makes Empresaria different to other 
stafﬁng companies?
A The balance and diversity of our business is very unusual 
for a group of our size. We have been operating in some 
high-growth stafﬁng markets such as Indonesia, Thailand, 
China and Germany for a number of years. We also have a 
good level of proﬁts from established markets such as the 
UK and Japan, helping to deliver more stable proﬁts and 
reduce the impact of developing market ﬂuctuations.
Our lean head ofﬁce team is very close to the operating 
companies, keeping in touch and meeting them regularly. This 
helps us to react quickly to issues that arise and to support 
the management teams in delivering to their strategies.
I ﬁrmly believe that business operates in a global 
market, with skilled workers increasingly comfortable with 
working in different geographies. With ageing populations, 
emerging markets growth and societies migrating from 
rural to urban settings we can expect to see the shortage 
for skilled professionals exacerbated, with companies 
competing for talent on a worldwide basis. Empresaria 
already has a presence in a number of the key global 
economic centres and by developing our brands 
internationally we hope to extend this further.
Q Empresaria has been described in the past as a 
portfolio of investments. Is this still true?
A It certainly isn’t now. Empresaria is a stafﬁng services 
group, with a focus on the operational performance of each 
brand. We believe in a multi-branded approach and this 
means we have different brands targeting different market 
sectors, each with their own expertise in their specialism, 
adding higher value to the process than a mono-brand 
supplier. We encourage brands to work together, either 
directly or to share best practice and support each other. 
We have close relationships with the brands and regularly 
meet with managers to discuss performance, strategy and 
developments within the business. 
We also operate a “hub” concept within the Group, where 
brands can use the surplus space of another brand to 
help test a new market, before deciding whether a full 
investment and launch is justiﬁed. We used this concept 
in Singapore in 2011, with 4 brands joining the hub. 3 of 
the 4 brands remain and are growing, having been able 
to test the market at low cost and risk. This has also 
happened in London with brands sharing ofﬁce space 
and we are expecting it to occur in Chile during 2013.
Q Empresaria has bought in a lot of minority 
shares in recent years. Is there a change in the 
business philosophy?
A No, not at all. We ﬁrmly believe in the management 
equity model as a means of both attracting and then 
retaining ambitious, talented managers within the Group. 
We believe that the freedom provided to our brands to 
develop their business is a rare opportunity for the best 
managers in the industry to grow a successful stafﬁng 
business but also beneﬁt from being part of a larger 
Group. We have made a number of share purchases over 
the last few years and hold 100% of a few companies at 
the moment. However, we are already in discussions with 
some management teams for second generation equity 
schemes. This will allow us to incentivise senior managers 
to take their company to the next level of proﬁts by sharing 
in the growth. We are hopeful of getting a number of these 
schemes ﬁnalised in the ﬁrst half of 2013.
Q What are your priorities for 2013?
A There is a continuing focus on developing our brands 
and helping them to grow their businesses. We will also 
continue to target improvements in the conversion ratio to 
help drive increased proﬁts. Given the operational issues 
we had to deal with in Germany and Chile in particular 
in 2012, it is vital that these businesses are closely 
managed to ensure the changes made deliver improved 
results and contribute to the Group’s proﬁtability. Costs 
will be controlled as we are wary of the possibility of 
market deterioration and we will react to any changes in 
conditions quickly and ﬁrmly. We will also seek to identify 
suitable external investment opportunities to help develop 
the Group. 14
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s business review
continued
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 66.5 67.0
Net fee income 16.0 16.0
Adjusted operating proﬁt 2.2 2.0
% of Group net fee income 36% 34%
Average number of employees 201 201
Revenue decreased by 1% to £66.5m (2011: £67.0m) with 
an increase in permanent fees of 3%, offset by a decline in 
temporary fees of 1%. The temporary margin was also slightly 
down by 0.4% on 2011 but overall net fee income was level at 
£16.0m. The higher level of permanent fees helped the gross 
margin improve marginally to 24.0%. The biggest challenge in 
the year was in the banking and ﬁnance sector, where lower 
global demand hit conﬁdence in the London market and 
impacted both clients and candidates.
The proportion of net fee income from temporary sales was 
59% (2011: 60%), reﬂecting the stronger permanent sales 
performance. Adjusted operating proﬁt was up 12% to £2.2m 
(2011: £2.0m) as a result of tight cost control. This increase 
helped the UK region increase its share of the Group’s net 
fee income by 2% to 36%. Employee numbers remained the 
same, averaging 201 in the year.
Market conditions during the year in the UK were poor, 
with uncertainty and poor visibility due to the double-dip 
recession. In addition, whilst we had anticipated a slowdown 
in demand across the London region during the Olympic 
Games, the expectation had been for a catch up in the 
second half of the year to make up for lost productivity. This 
did not materialise and second half revenue was down on 
the ﬁrst half, although net fee income and adjusted operating 
proﬁt were just ahead.
Within the Infrastructure and Construction sector business, 
there was a small decline in permanent sales, but an increase 
in temporary sales as our Building services brand, Reﬂex HR, 
opened a new ofﬁce in London to target this market in more 
depth. However, proﬁts were lower as costs were increased 
due to this new ofﬁce investment. FastTrack’s Heathrow 
Airport ofﬁce, opened in 2011, continued to perform well 
and generated a signiﬁcantly better return in its second year 
of operation. The outlook for new infrastructure projects 
appears more positive at the beginning of 2013 than it did a 
year ago and we hope this will feed into higher demand for 
our services during the course of the year.
Our two Financial Services brands had a mixed year. There 
was a 33% increase in insurance stafﬁng revenue along with 
a ﬁve-fold increase in adjusted operating proﬁt. However, 
market conditions within the core banking and ﬁnance sector 
were very difﬁcult and we saw a reduction in both permanent 
and temporary sales. Costs were managed down and whilst 
the business reported a trading proﬁt it was signiﬁcantly 
down on the prior year. The business has diversiﬁed its sector 
coverage and now offers a wider range of stafﬁng services for 
back-ofﬁce and compliance functions.
Results within our Other brands group have been largely 
positive, especially from the Creative and Retail (real estate) 
brands, which generated increased proﬁts over 2011. The 
Recruitment-to-Recruitment brand had another challenged 
year, with only technical, oil & gas and IT sectors consistently 
increasing staff this year. Further investments in the Domestic 
Services brand to enhance their web presence and marketing 
effectiveness meant proﬁt was slightly down on prior year.
UK Business review
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
15
Continental Europe
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 83.2 102.7
Net fee income 15.7 19.7
Adjusted operating proﬁt 1.7 2.2
% of Group net fee income 36% 42%
Average number of employees 198 221
Revenue decreased by 19% to £83.2m (2011: £102.7m) and 
this fed through to a 20% decline in net fee income to £15.7m 
(2011: £19.7m). There was an increase in permanent sales of 
92%, albeit from a low base, but this was offset by a reduced 
temporary margin of 0.7%. The proportion of net fee income 
from temporary sales remained high at 96% (2011: 98%). 
There were signiﬁcant cost savings made during the year, with 
average staff numbers falling 10%, but this was not enough to 
offset the lower net fee income, resulting in adjusted operating 
proﬁt of £1.7m, down £0.5m on 2011.
The market conditions across Europe have been challenging. 
Even Germany has not been immune, with a negative GDP 
in the last quarter of 2012, preceded by worsening economic 
conditions. Germany also introduced equal pay directives 
for temporary workers in the last quarter of 2012, which is 
currently being adopted by the majority of industries. This 
leads to pay rate surcharges over current pay levels of up 
to 50%, phased in over a nine month period. Whilst this is 
not expected to have a long-term negative impact on the 
temporary recruitment industry, we anticipate a fall in demand 
of up to 20% in the short-term and a reduced gross margin as 
clients react to the increased costs by reducing the levels of 
temporary labour.
These issues in Germany have necessitated a reduction of 
the cost base across the branch network and at head ofﬁce. 
A restructuring programme was implemented in the second 
quarter and is now largely completed. This has resulted in 
13 branch ofﬁces being closed down or merged and a 
material reduction in staff. Average staff numbers in Germany 
over 2012 were 13% lower than 2011 and were 16% down at 
the year end. The cost base going into 2013 is 15% lower than 
at the beginning of 2012 and, whilst we expect a further fall in 
revenue, this should ensure that the proﬁts improve in 2013.
Proﬁts continued to improve within the outsourced business 
which is looking at ways of broadening its client base. The cost 
base was restructured in 2011, in reaction to the increased pay 
rates after changing tariffs, as a result of which the business 
was better placed for 2012.
There has also been a release of £0.4m of the provision 
held against claims for retrospective pay and social security 
contributions in Germany and the provision stood at £1.0m at 
year end. Only a small number of new claims were submitted 
in the year and the social security audit was successfully 
ﬁnalised for all years to 2009. Nearly half of all claims 
submitted to date have been settled for an average of 15% 
of the original claim value. We are conﬁdent that the current 
provision level is sufﬁcient to cover all known and potential 
claims in this matter.
In March 2012, we reached agreement with the former 
minority shareholder in Headway to purchase 6.7% of his 
minority holding for €1.3m and to restructure the timings of 
the put and call options over the remaining 13.33%. During 
the summer of 2012, following an approach by the vendor, 
we agreed an early settlement for the remaining shares. 
Whilst this resulted in a further cash outﬂow in the year, 
increasing the Group’s net debt, we negotiated a reduced 
price for the purchase, saving in the region of £0.6m in 
total consideration. Of the €2.2m consideration, €1.1m was 
payable on completion with two tranches of €550,000 payable 
before the end of December 2012 and March 2013. This 
purchase was funded by a new €2.2m revolving credit facility, 
repayable in full by the end of December 2013.
The results at our Healthcare business in the Baltic region 
were down on the prior year. Overall, demand for its services 
is stable, but it has become more competitive to attract 
qualiﬁed staff. The business has invested further in its 
recruitment team and is looking to broaden its candidate 
base within the Baltic region.
Our specialist businesses in the Czech Republic and Slovakia 
performed much stronger than in the prior year, with both 
businesses delivering a small proﬁt, against losses in 2011. 16
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Revenue 44.6 39.2
Net fee income 12.2 11.2
Adjusted operating proﬁt 1.5 1.1
% of Group net fee income 28% 24%
Average number of employees 435 426
Revenue grew by 14% to £44.6m (2011: £39.2m) and net fee 
income grew by 9% to £12.2m (2011: £11.2m). This remains 
the Group’s fastest growing region and now represents 28% 
of Group net fee income. The temporary margin declined by 
nearly 2%, mainly due to a speciﬁc operational issue in Chile 
arising in the ﬁrst half and which has now been addressed. 
Permanent revenue (including revenue from the training and 
Recruitment Process Outsourcing businesses) grew by 16% 
and now accounts for 64% of regional net fee income. Overall 
temporary revenue (from Japan, Australia and the outsourcing 
business in Chile) grew 13% but a lower overall gross margin 
restricted net fee income growth. Costs increased with the 
greater activity, and average staff numbers increased by 
2%, driven by the training business in Indonesia. Adjusted 
operating proﬁt was £1.5m (2011: £1.1m) up 33%.
In Japan, proﬁts from both Group brands grew by over 40% 
as trading conditions in Tokyo returned to normal following 
the earthquake and tsunami in early 2011. The Japanese 
economy remains constrained and is not forecasting high 
growth, but we expect to see a continued strong performance 
for our businesses in 2013.
The South East Asia region saw strong growth in revenue, 
although proﬁt growth was held back by the costs of 
investments in Singapore and Hong Kong. Our executive 
search brand, Monroe Consulting, grew revenues by just 
under 40% across its established ofﬁces in Indonesia, 
Thailand and Philippines, although losses in Singapore held 
back overall growth. The Group’s investments in Singapore 
delivered a second year of losses, but we are conﬁdent 
that they have reached sufﬁcient scale to make a positive 
contribution in 2013. There was a small loss in Hong Kong 
in line with expectations for a ﬁrst year launch. Our training 
business in Indonesia achieved higher sales in 2012 but, as 
a result of investments in staff, the proﬁt remained on the 
same level as prior year.
Revenue in India was ﬂat year-on-year but, following the 
restructuring in 2011, improved efﬁciency and cost control 
resulted in better net fee income and a strong improvement 
in proﬁt for the year, against a loss in 2011. Demand for 
Recruitment Process Outsourcing services is strongest from the 
US market and we expect this to be a positive trend into 2013.
In China, we saw steady revenue and proﬁt growth, despite a 
slowdown in the local economy in the second half of the year. 
The forecast is for China to return to sustainable levels of 
economic growth and this should help our business to deliver 
steady growth. The two businesses in Shanghai were merged 
during the year.
Revenue from Australia grew by 20% and this fed through to 
a strong improvement in proﬁt. The Melbourne ofﬁce, opened 
in 2011, has contributed proﬁtably this year. The Australian 
market weakened in the last quarter of 2012 but the early 
signs for 2013 are more promising.
Our Chilean business was loss making in the year, despite a 
signiﬁcantly improved second half performance. The business 
took the decision to exit from an unproﬁtable major contract, 
accounting for approximately 30% of sales, which resulted 
in transitional losses. New clients have already been found 
to help the sales volume recover. Some transitional costs 
will continue into 2013 but, due to the actions taken during 
2012, the business is able to deliver more reliable and less 
risky income streams and we are conﬁdent of returning it to 
proﬁtability in 2013.
Joost Kreulen
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
19 March 2013
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s business review
continued
Rest of the World
