 02
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
Overview of performance in 2012
Overall Group revenue was £194.3m (2011: £208.9m),
a reduction of 7%, with Group net fee income reducing 
6% to £43.9m (2011: £46.9m). However, good control over 
costs meant that both adjusted operating proﬁt of £5.4m 
and adjusted proﬁt before tax of £4.6m were up 2% on 
2011. Adjusted earnings per share increased 25% to 5.0p 
(2011: 4.0p), beneﬁtting from the purchases of minority 
shares made in the year.
At the regional level, the Rest of the World continued to grow 
strongly with net fee income increasing by 9% on the prior 
year. There was another particularly strong performance from 
the Asian region which grew by 15% year on year. Our recent 
investments in Singapore and Hong Kong are developing well 
and we expect them to deliver positive contributions in 2013. 
Our UK business has solid foundations and maintained net 
fee income in 2012 at prior year levels, despite the double-dip 
recession. Tight cost control helped in delivering an increase 
in adjusted operating proﬁt. 
In Continental Europe, net fee income declined 20% 
over the year, predominantly as a result of the required 
realignment of our business in Germany. This restructuring 
exercise has removed a signiﬁcant level of costs and right-
sized the business for the current market conditions, but 
resulted in lower proﬁts in 2012. We have recognised £1.1m 
of exceptional restructuring costs for Germany in these 
accounts. This has been partially offset by a reduction in 
the provision against claims for retrospective pay and social 
security in Germany. We have settled a large proportion of 
the historic claims and only had a small number of additional 
claims arise in the year.
Our reported net debt has increased to £8.1m (2011: £5.6m) 
due to our investment in working capital, a reduction in 
credit insured invoice ﬁnancing and the purchase of minority 
shares, in particular the acquisition of the remaining minority 
shares in Headway for a total cash outlay in the year of 
€2.95m (approximately £2.4m). By accelerating this purchase 
fully into 2012, the Company beneﬁtted from a saving of 
approximately £0.6m in total consideration.
Board
Joost Kreulen took over as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer on 
1 January 2012, having been responsible for the Group’s 
Asian operations since 2009 and, more recently, also for 
a number of the Group’s UK based businesses. Joost 
has extensive experience of operational and business 
development roles within specialist stafﬁng operations, 
having worked for over 25 years in the stafﬁng industry.
Miles Hunt resigned from the Board, ceasing to be 
a Non-Executive Director on 31 March 2012.
Chairman’s statement
We are cautiously 
optimistic about the 
current year. Due to the 
actions taken during 2012, 
we expect a better Group 
performance in 2013. Overview
Empresaria Group plc 
Annual report and accounts 2012
03
People
In absolute terms, staff numbers increased from 803 at 
the end of 2011 to 834 at the end of 2012, although the 
average number of staff fell from 848 last year to 834 this 
year, with the movements across the regions mirroring 
their ﬁnancial performance. 
The success of the Group is dependent on having the right 
people in the right place and the Board would like to thank 
all of the Group’s staff for their hard work, commitment and 
contribution over the last year, in what have been challenging 
conditions for a number of our brands.
The Group strategy and success is underpinned by a 
philosophy of management equity. Operating company 
management teams invest directly in their own businesses, 
thereby aligning management and shareholder interests. 
Where we have acquired ﬁrst generation management equity 
we are actively pursuing a strategy of second generation 
equity, to incentivise senior managers to drive the next 
stage of development of their companies. This will typically 
involve setting a threshold proﬁt limit and allowing minority 
shareholders to beneﬁt from increases in proﬁt over this limit.
Dividend
We continue to adopt a sustainable dividend policy, whilst 
prioritising free cash ﬂow for developing the Group and 
strengthening the balance sheet. For the year ended 
31 December 2012, the Board is proposing to maintain the 
ﬁnal dividend at 0.35p per share (2011: 0.35p per share) 
which, if approved by Shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting, will be paid on 24 June 2013 to shareholders on 
the register at 24 May 2013.
Governance
The principle of sound corporate governance practices is 
core to our success as a Group. The diversiﬁed nature of the 
Group, operating through 20 brands across 18 countries, 
means it is vital that a strong control culture and clear 
policies on corporate conduct and governance exist and are 
communicated and monitored effectively. The Board develop 
the Group’s corporate governance arrangements in line with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, making sure that the 
entrepreneurial freedom enjoyed by the operating companies 
is within a framework of clearly understood principles and 
controls. Further details on the corporate governance 
arrangements of the Group can be found in the Corporate 
Governance section of this report.
Current trading and outlook
We are cautiously optimistic about the current year. 
Global economic conditions remain uncertain and there 
are many risks to the fragile recovery seen in some of our 
key markets. However, due to the actions taken during 2012, 
we expect a better Group performance in 2013. In particular, 
the operational improvements made in Germany and Chile 
means both are better placed for the current year and the 
investments made in Singapore should contribute more 
positively from the solid platform now in place. 
We continue to see opportunities for growth within our existing 
Group and will take a selective approach to external investments.
Anthony Martin
Chairman
19 March 2013
