 10 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’ s
Review
Last year EnCore made considerable
progress despite a highly competitive
business environment in the UK E&P
sector. 
Firstly , we all share the sense of disappoint-
ment with our fellow shareholders that the
results of the Golden Arrow well were not as
positive as hoped. We openly recognised
that the inherent risks meant that it was
more likely to fail than succeed but judged
the risk worth taking, given the potential
rewards. We also recognised that a great
deal of interest would be focused on this
single event and that our main task was to
focus on planning for what happened after
the well.
Growing Business
Over the past 12 months we have
increased our portfolio significantly , both in
the UK and overseas, through corporate
acquisitions and asset acquisitions, 
swaps, and a successful licensing round
application. We put in place an active drilling
programme of over 12 wells which has
already started to deliver positive results,
backed up by a significant portfolio of
acreage that we hope will deliver more
drilling opportunities in the future. 
The competition for access to exploration
and appraisal opportunities remains intense
– especially in oil. Access to drilling rigs is 
still an issue for the UK offshore industry as 
a whole, especially for semi-submersibles.
We do not believe this will cause any
material delays to fulfilling our upcoming firm
drilling programme, but specific timings are
always subject to operational issues that
may occur under drilling operations ahead
of taking delivery of the rig. 
The fall in the gas price in 2007 and the
greater availability of drilling equipment 
has left us better placed to capture and
progress opportunities in the Southern 
Gas Basin. We are pleased that the UKCS 
25th Round may be delayed until 2008.
This would be a positive development, Annual Report 2007 EnCore Oil plc 11
allowing companies to manage existing
portfolios more effectively in a resource
constrained environment, as well as placing
the award of new licences into a more
appropriate timescale for the industry’ s
normal budget cycle.
Our T eam
Access to talented and experienced people
is a continuing issue for the worldwide oil
and gas industry . It is something that has
been recognised for many years, but in 
an industry well known for often setting its
horizon as much as one or sometimes two
quarters ahead, it is not surprising that we
are now paying the price for our failure to
attract younger geoscientists and engineers
to our industry . The available talent pool is
not large given current demands, with the
inevitable upward pressure on costs. We
are therefore especially pleased to have
established and expanded our close knit
team, which is still, and will remain, small by
comparison with some of our peers. 
We always aim to spend our resources 
on those aspects of our business where we
can make a difference. All our commercial
and material technical evaluations are
undertaken in-house by our own team. 
This brings both continuity to the
management and development of the
assets and an ownership that is vital to
unearth the best and most creative new
ideas and opportunities. 
The EnCore team equally importantly 
are also shareholders in our business. 
In addition to the Directors, who own 
34.8 million shares, the other team
members own 4.9 million shares through
the investment of their own money in the
Company.
Well Results to Date
Since the agreement to acquire Oil Quest
Resources plc through a reverse takeover in
late 2005 we have drilled a total of six wells.
The results from the first two wells,
Kirkleatham and Westerdale, both gas
discoveries, have been discussed
previously. 
Since then we have drilled an additional 
four offshore wells: 18/5-2 (Golden Arrow),
48/22-5 (Cirrus), 49/23-2 (Old Head of
Kinsale) and 57/2-3 (Schull). 
The results of these are:
Golden Arrow:
Dry hole, plugged and abandoned
Cirrus:
Gas discovery , plugged and abandoned
Old Head of Kinsale:
Gas discovery , flowed 18.5mmcfd 
Schull:
Gas discovery , flowed 21mmcfd
Our drilling record to date has therefore
been five gas discoveries and one dry hole.
While the acid test is commerciality , we are
pleased that we have demonstrated our
ability to find hydrocarbon accumulations. 
Outlook
The next 12 months or so will provide
further business development opportunities
as well as the continuation of the drilling
programme. We are particularly looking
forward to drilling the Breagh, Catcher and
Cobra wells, the success of any of which
should add material value.
We are keen to see the results of our gas
storage feasibility study with Star Energy in
the fourth quarter of this year and are looking
carefully at how we might most effectively
distribute any value to our shareholders if
the project is commercially viable.
2008 will hopefully bring with it our maiden
production from Kirkleatham and also
confirmation of commerciality at the Amstel
Oil field in the Netherlands. We will continue
to manage our portfolio aggressively and
seek opportunities to grow and upgrade our
opportunity set.
Much has been said about ‘consolidation’
within the E&P sector and we have had a
number of discussions in this regard.
However informal discussions to date with 
a number of interesting parties lead us to
believe there is still reluctance among those
companies with a suitable asset base to
sanction a combination. However I firmly
believe consolidation in the sector is
inevitable, even if the timing is not yet clear .
Summary
We achieved many of our objectives 
during the year , but that does not make 
us complacent. We recognise there is still
much to be done to deliver true value to 
our shareholders in a highly competitive
industry . However , we believe that our
measured and opportunistic approach to
business puts us in a very strong position 
to make the most of our opportunities,
which should yield substantial rewards for
our shareholders.
Alan Booth
Chief Executive Officer
8 August 2007
“We put in place an active drilling
programme of over 12 wells which
has already started to deliver
positive results, backed up by a
significant portfolio of acreage.”
