 8 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s
Review Annual Report 2007 EnCore Oil plc 9
The last 12 months have been an
exciting time at EnCore. We have 
made great progress in strengthening 
and balancing our exploration and
appraisal portfolio. 
At EnCore, it is not our aim to build a full
cycle E&P company. Throughout the 
year, we continued to develop a portfolio
of assets that will deliver sustainable 
and realisable long-term value to our
shareholders. Our business model 
is to monetise most projects at the
appropriate time in their life cycle, taking
into account remaining risk and further
capital requirements especially with
respect to capital efficiency. We always
remain alert to other value creating and
crystallising opportunities along the 
way – an approach that is a point of 
great pride for me personally. It means
EnCore is a company that not only has 
a well-defined strategy but also one that
is genuinely focused on delivering value 
to shareholders. 
Creating Shareholder Value
An E&P company needs to have a dual
approach to creating shareholder value.
Firstly, it is vital to have a technically and
commercially successful exploration
programme. Secondly, it is crucial never
to run out of money. We have been very
specific about mitigating our financial risk
through the deals we do, and by managing
our cash resources sensibly. Always
having funds available – coupled with an
opportunistic approach – means we are
well positioned to drill wells and actively
participate in industry consolidation. 
As a company , we are still in our youth,
which makes our achievements to date
even more significant. After listing on AIM 
in March 2006, we had interests in 20
licences – 13 onshore and 7 offshore – 
by the end of our last financial year in June
2006. A year on and we now have interests
in 47 licences – 15 onshore and 32 offshore.
While we maintain our focus on the UKCS,
we have also entered two new countries,
Ireland and the Netherlands, and have
licence applications outstanding in France. 
Industry Reputation
We continue to be very involved in
evaluating and negotiating deals and it is
very apparent from opportunities in the 
past 12 months, that the industry views
EnCore as a worthy partner . In fact, our
activity this year has included four corporate
acquisitions, seven asset deals, seven
licence awards through one UK licensing
round and participation in the drilling of four
wells – two of which have been deemed to
be potentially commercial gas discoveries. 
We believe in acting with integrity in how 
we run our business. As significant
shareholders ourselves, we seek to create
opportunities for the Company which 
will ultimately create value for all our
shareholders. The benefit may not always
be seen in the short term – which is the case
now with our market capitalisation – but the
basis has been created for substantial
growth in shareholder value. With any
exploration comes risks but in the portfolio
we have built up over the last two years,
there is the potential for a broad range of
potential rewards on offer . 
The Future
Looking to the immediate future, we are
participating in a number of exploration and
appraisal wells over the coming year . We
also have the added opportunity of offshore
gas storage studies, which are currently
ongoing and came through our acquisition
of Virgo.
None of this year’ s achievements would
have been possible without the hard work
and dedication of the EnCore team and I
would like to thank them all for their efforts. 
I look forward to reporting on EnCore’ s
progression and growth next year .
Michael T . Lynch
Chairman
8 August 2007
“EnCore is a company that not only has a
well-defined strategy but also one that is
genuinely focused on delivering value to
shareholders.”
