 2 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2008
Highlights
Over the past 12 months, we have been focused on delivering  
on our principal strategy of value creation. It is not our aim to 
build a full cycle E&P company. Rather, we believe value will  
be created through successful exploration and appraisal of 
prospects and discoveries, and then seeking to monetise or 
exchange an asset at the appropriate point in its lifecycle and 
returning value directly to shareholders where we can. 
Ongoing drilling programme 
delivers success and offers 
further potential 
•  Breagh successfully tested, showing 
potential for sizeable gas accumulation; 
further appraisal of Breagh commenced 
in August 2008 with East Breagh 
appraisal well and second well planned 
in September 2008 with West Breagh 
appraisal/ development well.
•  Cobra tested gas at sub-commercial 
rates without stimulation but confirmed 
sizeable gas column; feasibility study 
initiated to review the well results 
for a prospective well stimulation 
programme.
•  Barbarossa well confirmed presence 
of gas and horizontal well tested gas at 
a maximum rate of 40 million standard 
cubic feet per day; production could 
commence as early as second quarter 
of 2009.
•  Schull and Old Head wells successfully 
tested gas. Further evaluation of the 
commercial potential of these discoveries 
is taking place.
•  Rig secured to drill Bowstring East  
(also known as ‘Cladhan’) in October 
2008, a light oil target in a large 
stratigraphic trap.
Success in the UK 13th 
Landward Licensing Round 
and further licence award 
onshore France
•  Awarded two licences in the UK 13th 
Landward Licensing Round covering 
four blocks and part-blocks providing 
additional opportunities for exploration 
upside.
•  Awarded onshore licence in the Nîmes 
area of France.
Highlights of the year include: EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2008 3
Balancing our portfolio for 
risk, opportunity generation, 
and monetisation
•  Formed new joint venture partnerships 
with Wintershall, Revus Energy and 
Fairfield Energy.
•  Post balance sheet event: sold Amstel 
asset in the Netherlands for US$5.5 
million in cash to focus our capital on 
key strategic areas.
Raised £12.5 million through 
an institutional placing to 
support drilling and operations 
activity
Working to return the value of 
offshore Gas Storage directly 
to shareholders
•  Feasibility study confirmed the technical 
and potential economic viability for 
145bcf of gas storage at Esmond and 
Gordon. 
•  Gas storage option exercised by 
Star Energy to become operator and 
increase equity to 50 per cent.
•  Appointed N M Rothschild to assist in 
evaluating gas storage options following 
interest from a number of parties.
•  Drilling operations to commence on 
Esmond pressure test well in September 
2008. Once the results of this well are 
known, and assuming they come within 
the expected range of outcomes then 
it is likely that EnCore will seek to sell its 
100 per cent. subsidiary, EnCore Gas 
Storage Limited.
