 10 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
“ Our strategy continues to be focused on 
directing our capital and resources towards 
those assets and opportunities that have the 
greatest materiality. This should create the 
greatest value per share.”
The last year has, I believe, been an 
important milestone in delivering on 
our strategy of creating value for our 
shareholders. The principal driver of 
value has been the recognition of the 
potential value of the Esmond-Gordon 
gas storage project, which I will discuss 
in more detail below. Drilling results 
have been positive on the whole with  
all our wells encountering and flowing 
gas, although some more than others. 
We still have a number of wells to  
drill which will provide the potential  
to upgrade existing discoveries or  
find new accumulations, all of which,  
if successful, would add further value.  
We remain optimistic that our strategy  
is bearing fruit and with a fair wind  
and a modicum of luck, that we  
should have another successful year 
ahead of us.
Focus on Strategy Delivery
As I have stated in the past, it is not 
our intention to simply create an ever 
expanding portfolio. We now have fewer 
licences than last year but with potentially 
much greater value. Our strategy 
continues to be focused on directing 
our remaining capital and resources 
towards those assets and opportunities 
that have the greatest materiality. In turn, 
this should create the greatest value per 
share. We continue to ensure that we are 
suitably structured so that we can return 
this value to our shareholders in the most 
effective and efficient way possible. 
Successful Drilling Results
Breagh: We have had significant 
success at Breagh where the group has 
established what could be a sizeable 
gas field in an area that had previously 
been dismissed as having limited 
commercial potential. At the time of 
writing, we are drilling the East Breagh 
appraisal well. The results from drilling 
at this location should establish whether 
the East Breagh feature is part of the 
currently established gas accumulation, 
a separate accumulation or is not gas 
bearing. Success with this well would 
have a very significant impact on the 
size of the currently established Breagh 
accumulation. Results should be  
known in late September or early  
October 2008.
Barbarossa: Recent drilling established 
commercial flow rates and the operator, 
Venture Production, expects that the 
field could be on stream in Q2 2009. 
This is subject to successful finalisation 
of remaining infrastructure access 
agreements and approval of the Field 
Development Programme by the 
Department of Business Enterprise and 
Regulatory Reform (BERR). 
Cobra: We were somewhat disappointed 
with the well test results at Cobra and 
had hoped the reservoir would flow at 
greater rates than we ultimately achieved. 
Nevertheless the well did confirm the 
presence of a sizeable gas column, and 
gave us a better understanding of the 
likely size and distribution of the gas in 
place within the Cobra accumulation. 
We are currently undertaking further 
studies to establish whether commercial 
rates might be achieved on Cobra 
through the drilling of long horizontal wells 
(similar to the well drilled at Barbarossa), 
through fracture stimulation or some 
combination of the two. Whilst we believe 
there are significant volumes of gas in 
place within the structure, we will not be 
able to assess what proportion of this 
could be recoverable until these studies 
are complete. We would then undertake 
further drilling, should that be warranted. EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2008 11
Gas Storage
As the UK’s offshore gas production 
continues to decline below our supply 
needs, the UK Government and general 
public have become increasingly aware 
of the need to ensure a greater security 
of supply. Whilst the UK is well served by 
both pipeline connections from Europe 
and Norway, as well as newly built LNG 
facilities, such facilities in themselves 
do not ensure that gas will flow in time 
of need or that LNG cargos will actually 
offload at these terminals. One fact that 
has become abundantly clear, both to 
the Government and to gas consumers 
is that the UK is critically short of gas 
storage facilities. We believe that in the 
current climate that Esmond-Gordon is 
a potentially important strategic asset. 
We have spent time this year discussing 
the way we can best deliver value to 
our shareholders from our interest in the 
Esmond-Gordon gas storage project. 
We concluded at a very early stage 
that this type of project would probably 
have most value to a significantly larger 
company with a broad European gas 
portfolio and strategy. We also concluded 
that attempting to develop a £1.4 billion 
project with a major national oil company 
would be something of a challenge from 
both a capital raising and resourcing 
perspective. We have appointed N M 
Rothschild to help in understanding the 
broader market for this type of asset and 
they continue to advise us.
The critical element in best understanding 
the value and capital costs of this project 
will be the current pressure in the reservoir. 
Analysis of the production history from 
the fields helps us model the pressure 
characteristics of the reservoir. This 
pressure model was used to provide a 
range of inputs into the feasibility study, 
but until we have established the actual 
pressures there will always be a degree 
of uncertainty. The pressure test well to 
be drilled by Star Energy is due to be 
spudded in mid-September and is key  
to understanding the value and economic 
viability of the project. 
We have concluded that in the event of  
a successful pressure test, we will seek 
to sell our interest in the project. Although 
we originally considered a separate 
flotation of EnCore Gas Storage, we 
believe that there are more effective ways 
to deliver this value to our shareholders, 
particularly in the light of the current state 
of the capital and debt markets.
Outlook
We look forward to the results of both 
the important East Breagh and Esmond 
wells. We also expect to be drilling 
Bowstring East (also known as ‘Cladhan’) 
in October this year and Catcher in 2009.
Our strategy of focusing our capital  
on assets that add material value 
means that some assets will be traded, 
sold or relinquished. We have recently 
announced the sale of our 10 per 
cent. interest in the Amstel field in the 
Netherlands to Taqa for $5.5 million.  
This generates a healthy profit on our 
initial investment, and also provides a 
capital influx that can be applied to the 
more material projects in our portfolio.  
We expect to rationalise more of our  
non-core assets in due course.
We thank our long term shareholders for 
their patience, particularly in these difficult 
times in the equity markets, and look 
forward to an interesting and hopefully 
profitable year ahead.
Alan Booth
Chief Executive Officer
15 September 2008 
