 8 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2008
Chairman’s Review
2008 has seen us focus our attention 
on the delivery of our strategy, the key 
elements of which are to maximise the 
potential of our assets and to monetise 
them at the appropriate time to create 
the greatest shareholder value. 
To that end, we have concentrated our 
efforts on our exploration and appraisal 
assets through the participation in the 
drilling of four wells during the year, 
three in our core focus area of the 
UKCS. We have also made progress  
on a potential offshore gas storage 
facility with the successful completion 
of a feasibility study in November 2007  
and the instruction of N M Rothschild  
to assist us on evaluating our options 
for the project following interest from  
a number of parties. 
Our Portfolio
For exploration and appraisal companies 
like EnCore, one aspect of higher oil 
prices is that companies are re-evaluating 
the assets they have rather than seeking 
to divest their interests. Whereas in 2007 
we took part in four acquisitions and 
formed 14 new joint venture partnerships 
through licence awards, asset swaps, 
farm ins and farm outs, 2008 has seen 
us participate in three new joint venture 
partnerships and be awarded three new 
licences onshore UK and onshore France. 
Our portfolio of assets now stands at 33 
licences in our core UK area, 13 onshore 
and 20 offshore. We are also hopeful of 
being awarded further licences in the UK 
25th Offshore Licensing Round.
Outside of our core area, we have two 
licences in France, two in Ireland, and the 
option on a licence in the SADR. 
The dual approach about which I 
spoke last year still stands. We have a 
technically and commercially successful 
exploration programme and, while such  
a programme places large demands 
on our finances, we remain funded to 
continue our exploration efforts.  EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2008 9
Gas Storage
Aside from straightforward exploration 
and appraisal, we await the results of an 
appraisal well which is to be drilled on  
our 50 per cent. owned Esmond field  
and which is crucial to the future potential 
of our offshore gas storage business.  
If successful, we will look to sell the asset 
to realise shareholder value and allow us 
to concentrate on our core exploration 
and production business.
Looking Ahead
The opportunities and development of 
our assets throughout the past year 
would not have been possible without the 
hard work of the EnCore team. I would 
like to thank the whole team for their 
efforts. 
Looking ahead, we have a number of 
wells to be drilled in the coming year 
including East Breagh (currently drilling), 
West Breagh, Catcher and Bowstring 
East (also known as ‘Cladhan’), and of 
course, the Esmond well. 
I would like to thank you, our shareholders 
for your continued support and look 
forward to updating you later in the year. 
Michael T. Lynch
Chairman
15 September 2008
“ 2008 has seen us focus our attention on  
the delivery of our strategy, the key elements 
of which are to maximise the potential of 
our assets and to monetise them at the 
appropriate time to create the greatest 
shareholder value.”
