 Drilled a successful well on UK North  
Sea block 47/9c Ceres which tested gas  
at a maximum rate of 40 mmscfd. Field 
Development Plan approval was received 
in September 2008 and the field is being 
developed as a single well sub-sea tie back
Contracted the sale of 15 per cent. equity 
in Breagh gas discovery to RWE Dea for  
a consideration of US$68.8 million, due  
to complete in September 2009
Drilled a successful exploration well on 
Block 210/29a Cladhan resulting in a light 
oil discovery. The well has intersected a 
light oil column of over 110 feet within an 
Upper Jurassic stratigraphic trap. Given 
its stratigraphic nature, there is potential 
for the hydrocarbon column to increase 
both up dip and down dip of the current 
location
Drilled three successful appraisal wells  
on UK North Sea block 42/13 Breagh 
proving up what could be one of the 
largest gas discoveries in the UK North 
Sea in the last ten years
Portfolio activity including two disposals 
(one signed post year end), two farm outs, 
award of four new offshore UK licences, 
one field development plan approval and 
the reassignment of an additional 50 per 
cent. of the Esmond and Gordon fields 
back to the Company
Operational Highlights  
2009
Strategy
Our strategy is designed to create 
shareholder value principally through the 
successful exploration and appraisal of 
prospects and discoveries. Key elements 
of this strategy are:
Focus on Areas of Proven Expertise
 
We focus mainly on the UKCS, initially taking high equities in 
licences – with the objective of generating opportunities that 
could add real value, rather than simply large equity or acreage 
positions.
Opportunities outside the UKCS will also be considered where 
we can apply our expertise and experience.
We plan to operate licences only where necessary to make 
sure that evaluation momentum is created. Once an evaluation 
programme is in place we are happy for other companies  
to take over this role, so we can focus our resources on new 
opportunities.
Balanced Risk Profile
 We carefully balance the risk profile of our projects, ranging 
from high impact offshore exploration drilling through to onshore 
appraisal drilling.
 
 We will only consider adding value through the acquisition of 
commercially proved reserves when there are opportunities 
at the right price that will also, ideally, add value to our other 
prospects.
 We aim to farm out a proportion of our high-equity licences, 
either through exchange to broaden our portfolio, or by bringing 
in partners with access to drilling rigs who can advance the 
evaluation process. 
Opportunistic Approach
We always take a pragmatic and opportunistic approach to both 
new opportunities and consolidation within the sector.
We are always ready to divest or swap part or all of our interest 
in a successful project at the appropriate time in its lifecycle. 
We assess the best time by considering the specific asset in 
relation to: future capital requirements and its source(s) and 
remaining risk profile – whether that’s appraisal, development 
or production, or sunk costs versus market value – as well as 
strategic positioning.
02 EnCore Oil plc  Gain on sale of EnCore Nederland B.V . 
£1.2m following Amstel sale for US$5.5 
million to Taqa in September 2008
Loss after tax £1.5m (2008: loss of £2.4m)
Cash and cash equivalents £5.4m  
at 30 June 2009 (2008: £14.5m)
Remains debt free
Financial Highlights  
2009
Completion of Ceres development with 
production commencing in late 2009
Appraise the Cladhan light oil discovery  
in early 2010
Exploration drilling on Block 28/9 Catcher 
in early 2010
Complete post well evaluation of Cobra 
and progress to field development 
planning
Complete the technical evaluation of the 
Esmond/Gordon Gas Storage project
Execute share buyback programme
Business plan for 2009/10 supported by 
strong balance sheet including Breagh 
disposal proceeds and cash flow 
generation from Ceres production
Outlook
EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 03
