 04 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 05 04 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 05
“ In the three years since acquiring our interest in Breagh,  
we drilled three appraisal wells to prove up the accumulation, 
which is now considered by many to be one of the largest 
discoveries in the Southern North Sea of the last decade.”
Chairman’s Review
 68.8m
US$
04
EnCore completed  
four exploration and 
appraisal wells during  
the year.
Value created for 
shareholders in the  
sale of our interest in  
the Breagh gas field.
04
EnCore were awarded  
four new licences in  
the 25th UK offshore 
licencing round.  04 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 05 04 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 05
Arguably, the most significant event  
of the year occurred following year 
end. Since our inception in 2005 and 
subsequent public listing in 2006, our 
prime strategy has been to develop a 
portfolio of assets which would create 
value for our shareholders. This year has 
seen that come to fruition with the sale  
of our interest in the Breagh gas field  
for US$68.8 million. In the three years 
since acquiring our interest in Breagh,  
we drilled three appraisal wells to prove 
up the accumulation, which is now 
considered by many to be one of the 
largest discoveries in the southern  
North Sea of the last decade. 
On completion of the sale and receipt  
of funds, which is expected in September 
2009, we have a number of options  
to consider, being mindful of our strategy  
of returning value to our shareholders.  
The Board has discussed at length all the 
options available to it and I can assure 
our shareholders that, as significant 
shareholders ourselves, we are seeking 
to enhance EnCore’ s per share value and 
liquidity first and foremost. We therefore 
intend to seek shareholder approval 
at the forthcoming AGM for a share 
buyback programme. This may not by 
itself create substantial near term share 
price appreciation, but should ultimately 
increase rewards to shareholders were 
the company to be successful with our 
upcoming high impact projects in early 
2010. 
We are also about to welcome our  
maiden production from our interest  
in the Ceres gas field in the Southern 
North Sea which will provide a modest 
contribution to our now significant  
capital base. 
Moving on to gas storage, whilst we  
were naturally disappointed with the exit  
of Star Energy from the project earlier  
in the year, we have been busy analysing 
data from the well results and feeding 
them into a modified development 
scenario. We are now at the stage where 
we have a project for which we need a 
new partner or a new owner in order for 
it to be progressed. We still firmly believe 
in the technical viability of the asset, but 
recognise that its value is dependent on 
others seeing the value, as we do, of this 
asset in a market which is crying out for 
gas storage.
Above all, as we move forward into the 
year ahead we will strive to maintain a 
healthy cash balance, and retain capital 
flexibility whilst exposing our shareholders 
to projects with significant upside potential. 
EnCore, as always, remains debt free. We 
believe this is a strong position considering 
the current economic and business 
environment. 
I would like to thank you, our shareholders, 
for your continued support throughout the 
year, and I look forward to updating you 
on progress at the half year. The EnCore 
team have worked especially hard on the 
sale of Breagh, at Cladhan and also on our 
Gas Storage project as well as all our other 
assets and I thank them for their hard work 
throughout the year.
Michael T . Lynch
Chairman
12 August 2009 
We made a conscious decision at
the beginning of the year to minimise
unnecessary drilling commitments across
our portfolio until the rig market had
settled down to a more acceptable level
than in late 2008. We still completed four
important wells during the year; three
successful gas appraisal wells at Breagh
and one successful exploration well 
which discovered light oil at Cladhan.
Aside from drilling, we made two 
disposals (one signed post year end), 
farmed out equity on two blocks, regained
operatorship on one licence, and were
awarded four new licences in the 25th
UK offshore licensing round with minimal 
future financial commitments. 
