 06 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 07 06 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 07
Our Gas Storage project suffered a set 
back with the withdrawal of Star Energy 
from the project following the drilling  
of the Esmond test well. We have 
now acquired full 100% control of the 
project and are currently redesigning the 
development plan for the Esmond field  
to account for the partial repressurisation 
of the lower reservoir. We have contracted 
a third party specialist consultancy to  
peer review and where necessary refine 
our scheme. Following a detailed reservoir 
simulation study of the field which we 
hope to implement over the summer,  
and assuming the results support our 
planned development scheme we will 
examine how we might achieve best  
value for our shareholders. Unless  
and until a commercial deal is signed, 
there will undoubtedly remain significant 
uncertainty on its potential value, 
particularly given the current state of  
the capital and debt markets.
We have been very fortunate in being 
able to reduce our drilling activity and 
associated major capital expenditures in 
2009, a period in which costs still lagged 
the precipitous fall in commodity prices. 
We expect that 2010 will see a better 
balance between costs and commodity 
prices and we expect a cautious return 
to exploration and appraisal activity in the 
UKCS, when we hope to drill both the 
Cladhan and Catcher prospects in the  
first half of the year.
2010 Outlook
We recognise that both Cladhan and 
Catcher together with the Esmond Gas 
Storage project are the three key currently 
identified elements of our portfolio that 
have the potential to make a material 
difference to our valuation, whilst requiring  
only very modest further capital investment 
and we hope to gain better knowledge  
of what the actual impact each of these 
will be in the first half of 2010. 
The remainder of our portfolio is the 
subject of our current focus. We recognise 
that the market gives us little value 
recognition for our onshore portfolio,  
which includes the Kirkleatham gas 
production and gas storage development 
project, and we are currently examining 
how we might achieve better recognition  
of this in the near term. 
Our Irish assets at Old Head and Schull 
are currently stalled, pending further 
clarification of the operators plans to either 
progress or monetise these discoveries. 
We believe that these assets are only  
likely to be developed in the near term  
with the involvement of the owners of the  
Celtic Sea gas infrastructure at Kinsale  
and we are in ongoing discussions in  
this regard. 
2009 Review
I believe that 2009 has again been
important in demonstrating delivery 
of our long stated strategy of realising
value for our assets at the appropriate
time in their life cycle. The sale of 
Breagh and of Amstel, both of which 
generated very healthy returns on 
invested capital are of particular note. 
In addition our exploration strategy 
bore fruit in the discovery of light oil in 
the Cladhan well. We are excited at the 
potential of this discovery, although
until we have drilled the next appraisal
well it is difficult to accurately estimate 
the size of the accumulation and hence 
its commerciality with any degree 
of certainty. 
“ I believe that 2009 has again been important in demonstrating 
delivery of our long stated strategy of realising value for our 
assets at the appropriate time in their life cycle.”
Chief Executive’s Review 06 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 07 06 EnCore Oil plc EnCore Oil plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 07
At Cobra we have completed our 
evaluation of the project following the 
results of the last appraisal well and have 
now designed a number of potentially 
suitable well and fracture programmes  
that would test the commercial viability  
of the field. We are currently examining  
the economics of the project and will  
make a decision on whether these meet 
our criteria for further investment later  
in the year, with a view to drilling later  
in 2010. 
We expect the Ceres gas field in which  
we have a small equity position to 
commence production in the 4th quarter, 
representing our maiden, albeit modest, 
cashflows. In the context of our overall 
strategy, expected cash resources and 
remaining capital expenditure profiles this 
asset may be of more value to someone 
else, and we are currently discussing this 
with potentially interested parties. 
Share buyback programme
We fully recognise that the current 
environment for value creation in the 
UKCS is, at best, challenging for smaller 
companies. Our ongoing plans are to 
rationalise our portfolio into a small number 
of potentially material assets that require 
only modest further capital investment 
with a near term timeframe whilst 
attempting to achieve value recognition 
for the remainder. This strategy will leave 
us with a significant proportion of our 
market capitalisation as uncommitted 
cash or cash in escrow. The board has 
considered the best use for these funds 
in the light of our long stated strategy and 
the current business environment outlined 
above, and has concluded that initially 
the most effective course of action will be 
to seek shareholder approval for a share 
buyback programme. We expect through 
this programme to increase the per share 
leverage in the success case at the key 
near term projects at Cladhan, Catcher 
and Esmond Gas Storage. Subject to 
shareholder approval of the programme 
we will closely monitor and review the 
efficacy of the buyback programme and 
if necessary seek to implement additional 
value enhancement programmes or capital 
restructuring as may be appropriate.
We will continue to take a pragmatic 
and opportunistic approach to both new 
opportunities and consolidation within  
the sector.
Alan Booth
Chief Executive Officer
12 August 2009 
