 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03
Chairman’s 
Review
 “EnCore is the operator 
of Catcher and we are 
proud to be taking this 
important project forward. ”
Ten months ago, I took over the 
Chairmanship of EnCore from Mike Lynch 
who led the company from its inception  
until it was well established and financially 
strong. The Company had an experienced 
management team, a mixed portfolio 
of onshore and offshore assets mainly 
concentrated on the UKCS North Sea, 
a market capitalisation of around £46 million, 
significant cash resources and no debt. 
Looking at that Company today, the 
management team has been further 
strengthened, the onshore assets have been 
divested for a sizeable equity stake in a 
focused, growing onshore player, the offshore 
assets have delivered a significant oil 
discovery and the market capitalisation sits at 
around £161.8 million (as at 9 August 2010).
The discovery at Catcher and subsequent 
side-tracks are hugely significant for EnCore, 
our joint venture partners and the UK  
North Sea industry as a whole. Not since 
the Buzzard discovery in 2001, found by 
members of EnCore’s management team, 
has such a potentially significant UK North 
Sea oil discovery been made. Our current 
estimates put up to 300 mmbbls of Oil in 
Place at Catcher (including East and North) 
with significant further upside from the 
undrilled prospects on the block. With that 
in mind, the joint venture partnership has 
confirmed that we are to return to the Catcher 
area for two to four further exploration and 
appraisal wells as soon as a rig is available 
with a view to better determining the scale 
of the development required for the licence. 
Following this, preparations will be made to 
move the project through to field development 
plan (FDP) approval, anticipated to happen 
in 2011. EnCore is the operator of Catcher 
and we are proud to be taking this important 
project forward.
Moving on to the other event which has 
shaped EnCore over the last year, our  
asset divestment to Egdon Resources,  
an experienced onshore player, has now 
completed (post period end) and we look 
forward to actively assisting Egdon as they 
develop their portfolio. The Egdon transaction 
is a good example of the approach which 
we, as a company, can undertake when 
presented with such an opportunity. 
EnCore’s prime focus is the development of 
our offshore interests. Our onshore portfolio 
came about as part of our reverse takeover 
of Oil Quest Resources plc and while we 
have spent some time in trying to build 
recognition of the value in those assets, 
we determined that it was likely that only 
an onshore focused player could do so 
successfully. The Egdon transaction has 
given us the opportunity to realise some 
of the value in our portfolio, and hopefully 
continue to create further value through 
our shareholding as Egdon moves its 
assets forward.
Our Company remains cash rich and debt 
free, and more importantly, we are able to 
comfortably cover our proportion of costs 
on all foreseeable further exploration and 
appraisal drilling at Catcher, and the 
appraisal well currently drilling at Cladhan 
without the need to seek further funding. 
This leaves us in the very healthy position 
of having cash in the bank, owning 15  
per cent. and being operator of the very 
significant Catcher oil discovery in the 
Central North Sea, and having 16.6 per 
cent. of the Cladhan oil discovery in the 
Northern North Sea, though we have yet 
to determine its size.
Looking to the future, the near to medium 
term will be dominated by further work in 
the Catcher area to determine the scale 
of the discovery. Cladhan may also prove 
to be a commercial discovery and we await 
the results of the appraisal well. The gas 
storage marketing process is continuing 
and we will update the market accordingly 
when further information is available and, 
of course, further work on the other 
prospects in our portfolio is ongoing. 
I would like to thank you, our shareholders, 
for your continued support through these 
exciting times. In particular, I would like 
to thank the team at EnCore. It is rewarding 
to know that all the technical work on the 
Catcher block has been carried out in-house 
by the EnCore team which is a reflection 
of the talent within that small team. Finally, 
I would also like to thank my predecessor, 
Mike Lynch, for his dedication and 
commitment to the Company during his 
years of service and for leaving us a company 
well placed to take advantage of the 
opportunities which have since arisen. 
Christine M.K. Wheeler OBE 
Chairman 
9 August 2010 
