 04 EnCore Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
2010 Review
I believe that 2010 has demonstrated  
that remaining focused on our strategy, 
even through tough times, has generated 
significant value appreciation for our 
shareholders. In 2009 we recognised that 
the market and business environment for 
small cap E&P companies had changed 
markedly since 2008. 
We made a conscious decision to preserve 
the capital we acquired from our Breagh 
sale, underpin our share price through 
implementation of a share buyback 
scheme, create a clear and transparent 
valuation for our onshore assets through 
our investment in Egdon, and to invest only 
where we saw opportunity for successful 
drilling to make a significant impact. 
We were especially fortunate that two key 
assets, Catcher and Cladhan both required 
only modest capital investment and that 
if either was successful could deliver 
a material change in our share price. I am 
happy to admit that our pre-drill estimate 
for the outcome of drilling at Catcher was 
wrong: it has turned out to be much larger 
and have much better oil and reservoir 
quality than we expected. 
The results of Catcher demonstrate that 
to be successful at exploration in the North 
Sea you need to have: a willingness to take 
risks, lots of patience, a healthy disregard 
for ‘accepted wisdom’ and last but not 
least, some good luck. I think we can now 
look forward to the coming year with a great 
deal of optimism and excitement.
The Year Ahead
Catcher
The results of drilling at Catcher have 
opened up a new play fairway in this area 
of the North Sea. We are especially excited 
at the number of additional prospects 
on the licence that appear to demonstrate 
similar seismic characteristics to our 
Catcher discovery. We intend to return 
to the Catcher block this autumn, or early 
next spring, dependent upon rig availability, 
to drill between two and four additional 
exploration and appraisal wells. 
Further success on the block would suggest 
a cluster of oil accumulations with potentially 
many hundreds of millions of barrels of oil 
in place. The low cost of drilling, the ability 
to use either semi-submersible or jack-up 
rigs, together with outstanding reservoir 
and oil quality would be likely to make this 
a highly valuable discovery, with potentially 
significant strategic importance. 
As operator I think EnCore is extremely well 
placed to progress the further exploitation 
of the block. Of course until we know more 
about the size and scale of the development 
project, it will be difficult to progress potential 
development options in any detail. I believe 
our team is uniquely well suited to the task 
ahead of us having been the management 
team that led the appraisal, Front End 
Engineering and Design, regulatory FDP 
approval and the subsequent development 
of the Buzzard Field between 2001 and 
2005. Buzzard is currently the largest field 
in the UKCS producing in excess of 
200,000 barrels per day. 
We believe that our very strong uncommitted 
cash position will ensure our ability to continue 
to capture significant additional value in  
the Catcher area for an extended period 
without the need for any additional funding.
Chief Executive’s 
Review
 “We can now look forward 
to the coming year with 
a great deal of optimism 
and excitement.” EnCore Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
Cladhan
At the time of writing, the Cladhan appraisal 
well has just begun. The well is being drilled 
as a side-track to the original discovery well 
to target a potential reservoir to the south 
of the currently established accumulation. 
The location was designed to minimise 
the cost of drilling in the failure case whilst 
enabling further side-tracking in the 
success case by drilling to a down dip 
location to establish the location of any 
oil-water contact. We expect the operations 
to complete within the next month, subject 
to any operational and weather delays. 
We believe that Cladhan also has the 
potential to make a significant impact on 
our valuation in the event of success as  
the upside reserves potential on Cladhan  
is very significant, whilst the commerciality 
threshold is quite low. 
Gas Storage
As Christine has mentioned, the marketing 
of our 100 per cent. owned Esmond gas 
storage project continues, and we will update 
shareholders when further information 
becomes available.
Exploration and Development Portfolio
During the year, we continued to progress 
the remainder of our portfolio. Last year 
we were all too aware of the lack of value 
recognition for, amongst other things, 
our Onshore UK and France licences and 
Ceres gas field. We subsequently achieved 
transparent value recognition for these 
assets through an innovative arrangement 
with Egdon Resources. We are currently 
examining how we might generate similar 
value recognition for our gas discoveries 
at Schull, Old Head of Kinsale and Cobra, 
as well as our UK exploration portfolio. 
There are a number of options that we 
believe may bring both the recognition of 
value, and also expose our shareholders to 
further activity and upside on these licences 
without significant further calls on our capital 
resources which will now be dedicated to 
Catcher and, if successful, Cladhan.
We recognise that the current environment 
for value creation in the UKCS remains 
challenging for smaller companies, although 
we are seeing the first signs of an easing 
in both debt and equity markets which will 
hopefully help. 
We are of the view that the UKCS will 
continue to provide unexpected significant 
discoveries, although many future 
exploration successes are likely to be made 
disproportionately by smaller players and 
new entrants to the North Sea. We hope 
that the relevant authorities will continue 
to encourage the entrance of new players 
and promote exploration for new 
accumulations by ensuring we have an 
economic and fiscal environment that 
encourages the recognition and appropriate 
reward for taking exploration risk. 
Additionally we need to ensure fair and 
speedy access to existing, often mature 
infrastructure. Unless this latter issue is 
addressed, and soon, then the undoubtedly 
significant benefits for the UK from the full 
exploitation of the UK’s indigenous natural 
resources is unlikely to be recognised. 
Alan Booth 
Chief Executive Officer 
9 August 2010 
 “ We were especially 
fortunate that Catcher 
and Cladhan both 
required only modest 
capital investment  
and that if either was 
successful could deliver 
a material change in  
our share price.”
