 05
EnCore Oil plc   Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Business Profile The Year in Review Governance Financial Statements Company Information
Chief Executive’s Review
Before I comment on the recent announcement 
regarding the acquisition of the Company, I would  
like to review the year.
I believe that 2011 has amply demonstrated that 
exploration and production is a business where risk  
and uncertainty are ever present, both above and below 
ground. Whilst we would like to think we understand 
the nature and range of potential outcomes of the 
subsurface and the operational risks that we take, the 
“above ground” risks are often less predictable and can 
have, and have had material impacts on both the value 
and risk profile of the business. 
A successful drilling campaign in the Catcher area  
delivered greater certainty on the extent and potential  
within the licence, with two new discoveries at Varadero  
and Burgman and a number of now highly attractive undrilled 
prospects high graded for future drilling, demonstrating 
the discovery of a material new hydrocarbon fairway in this 
part of the UKCS. These discoveries are now progressing 
towards development and we would expect to see the first 
Field Development Plan (FDP) approvals by the Department 
of Energy & Climate Change (DECC) in 2012, followed by 
first oil a few years later.
Our recent drilling campaign at Cladhan was less 
successful than we had initially hoped. Although we  
were pleased to see a significantly increased hydrocarbon 
column from the results of the first well, it also 
demonstrated that there was likely to be higher variability 
in reservoir quality, in part, we believe, relating to depth, 
and in part relating to the depositional nature of the 
sandstones. The second well of the campaign in the 
deepest parts of the structure, some 2,500 feet from the 
mapped crest, and some 1,000 feet or more below the 
lowest established oil, encountered a reservoir sequence 
without any effective porosity and permeability. The third 
and fourth wells established an area to the south of 
Cladhan with a different pressure regime, where we believe 
we may have intersected a potential oil water contact in a 
separate accumulation. We also expect that Cladhan will 
now progress towards FDP approval, possibly in 2012, 
likely as a sub-sea tie back to established infrastructure.
Recognising the fact that our development assets, and 
in particular the Catcher area, were ultimately likely to be 
of greater strategic value to a larger, more established 
UK producer, we set about positioning the Company to 
try and maximise the value of our remaining exploration 
portfolio by attempting to demerge these into a newly 
formed and listed subsidiary, XEO Exploration plc. A 
change in market sentiment with respect to exploration 
and production risk, and in particular with respect to the 
UK offshore sector following unexpected, rather blunt and 
frankly ill-considered tax changes, meant that this avenue 
was no longer available to us. We were disappointed with 
this outcome, as we believe the portfolio had, and indeed 
still has, significant merit, although not without risk. 
As we entered the second half of 2011, the Board 
recognised that we needed to evaluate our near-term 
strategy and balance our risk exposure to mitigate the 
effects of a new and uncertain external investment 
environment, and safeguard, to the maximum extent 
possible, the value we had already created for our 
shareholders in a turbulent and unforgiving market. 
Following a number of informal and broad ranging 
discussions with third parties, the Board concluded that 
the best route would likely be the outright sale of EnCore 
to a larger, well capitalised company, ideally with the option 
to allow our shareholders to continue to participate in the 
upside contained within the asset base should they so 
wish. Following receipt of an approach from Premier, our 
co-venturer in Catcher, the Board agreed that on balance, 
and considering the future risks and uncertainties, this route 
was likely the best option for retaining much of the value 
we had created. The market will of course determine if this 
is indeed the case. On a personal level, I would particularly 
like to thank my fellow Directors and staff for their invaluable 
contribution towards the successes we have achieved 
over the past six years. I would also like to thank our 
shareholders, many of whom participated in our original 
$6 million friends and family fundraising in 2005, for their 
patience and understanding over the years. 
Alan Booth
Chief Executive Officer
5 October 2011 
Exploration and production is a business 
where risk and uncertainty are ever 
present, both above and below ground
