 04
EnCore Oil plc   Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Chairman’s Review
Few companies will look back on 2011 as a successful 
and satisfying year. Prior to the announcement made 
on 5 October 2011 of the recommended acquisition by 
Premier to acquire EnCore, I had written my Chairman’s 
statement and, in that draft, had reported that within 
EnCore we could look at 2011 with some pleasure 
because of our continuing exploration success but, like 
every other company in the UK upstream oil sector, we 
have been affected by the worldwide funding crisis which 
has in turn affected oil prices, prompted fiscal changes 
and dampened investor confidence. Of course I had also 
outlined our plans for further work on the Catcher area, 
Cladhan and the planned well on Tudor Rose.
All this has been overtaken by recent events and it is likely 
that we will now remember 2011 as the year EnCore 
satisfied its aim of delivering value to its shareholders. As 
a Board we have considered the Acquisition very carefully. 
There are differing views in the industry about how to 
risk assess UK exploration assets not just for oil price, 
geological and development risk, but fiscal uncertainty 
and funding risk. Bearing all factors in mind, the Board 
unanimously determined that the terms of the Acquisition 
are fair and reasonable to EnCore shareholders.
I thank the EnCore team, many of whom have been 
with the company since its inception in 2005 and the 
contractors with whom we have worked inter alia 
during our drilling programmes, for demonstrating their 
high levels of expertise and hard work. The EnCore 
Executive management and staff have an enviable 
reputation which is well deserved. I thank my fellow 
Non-Executive Directors Keith Hughes, who left the 
Board during the year, and Vivien Gibney who joined 
us, for their valuable contributions.
I also thank our shareholders for their continued 
support over the last six years. Since EnCore started 
in 2005, we have sought to maintain a balanced risk 
profile and to conserve our equity for the appraisal of 
areas where we made discoveries like Catcher and 
Cladhan. I hope our shareholders share our pride 
in being involved with a company responsible for a 
number of the more important discoveries in the UK 
North Sea in recent years.
Our prime aim has been to create and deliver value to 
EnCore shareholders, and I am pleased that having 
created that value we can now deliver it.
Christine M.K. Wheeler OBE
Chairman
5 October 2011
It is likely that we will now remember  
2011 as the year EnCore satisfied its aim  
of delivering value to its shareholders
