 14
EnQuest PLC
Annual Report 2012
BUSINESS REVIEW
2012
2011
46.2
7.6
Basic earnings per share
Cents
507 .9%
Overview
EnQuest delivered on plan in 2012, with 
production of 22,802 Boepd. In each 
of the three years since EnQuest’s 
inception, we have reported good 
results. Across those three years we 
have generated a total of $1,517 .9 million 
of cash ow from operations, with 
production up 68% and an overall 
reserves replacement ratio of 300%. 
Dr James Buckee
Chairman
This performance is well ahead 
of our long term target of an 
average of 10% per annum 
growth in production and 
reserves, and re ects the 
successful implementation 
of our development and 
production strategy.
EnQuest’s technical, 
operational and execution 
capabilities have continued 
to grow during the year , 
particularly with the signi cant 
progress on the Alma/Galia 
development and the rapid 
assimilation of Kraken.
–CHAIRMAN’S 
ST A TEMENT 15
 EnQuest PLC
 Annual Report 2012
Market conditions
In 2012, EnQuest’s average realised oil price, net of hedging, was 
 111.6 per barrel, up from 107.6 per barrel in 2011. It is now two 
years since the Brent oil price last averaged below 100 per barrel 
and market oil price expectations remain high. Whilst we also 
continue to be positive on the longer term outlook for oil prices, 
we nonetheless take a prudent approach in the assumptions we 
use for business appraisal and planning purposes.
In both 2011 and 2012, EnQuest and the rest of the industry actively 
engaged with the UK Government, seeking improvements in the 
 scal structure of the UK North Sea to encourage investment. 
The improved allowances in the March 2012 UK Budget were 
encouraging. These were followed in the autumn by welcome 
new allowances for brown eld projects, in support of investment 
in mature oil elds. These new allowances are positive for EnQuest 
as it seeks to extend eld lives and to sustain investment in mature 
North Sea elds, such as Thistle and Heather. The investment this 
creates safeguards existing jobs and supports the creation of new 
jobs across the energy supply chain, it also partially restores the 
momentum lost by the initial tax increase.
EnQuest was also encouraged by recent UK Government 
measures aimed at providing certainty on the availability of tax 
relief on decommissioning costs, which should have the effect 
of increasing investment in the UK North Sea and extending the 
productive life of the UK’s oil and gas reserves. Greater certainty 
on decommissioning tax relief can be more reliably factored into 
investment decisions and commercial decommissioning security 
arrangements and should therefore stimulate new commercial 
activity across the UK Continental Shelf. This will also help to 
facilitate the sale of assets to companies most suited to invest in 
them and EnQuest is in a very good position to take advantage 
of these developments.
The EnQuest strategy and business model
The implementation of EnQuest’s strategy is proving its potential 
to create value. We believe that EnQuest’s development and 
production focused model can provide consistent returns over 
the production lifecycle, in contrast to the more speculative 
nature of frontier exploration. EnQuest realises value from oil eld 
development and production opportunities by targeting maturing 
assets and undeveloped elds. We exercise a high level of control 
over developments, as a result of having a majority working 
interest and being the eld operator. We believe that its capabilities 
differentiate EnQuest; with the levels of expertise we maintain 
in-house, EnQuest’s teams can achieve high levels of collaboration, 
continuity and accumulated shared knowledge.
EnQuest focuses on hubs, utilising three main approaches. 
Firstly, we extend eld lives by upgrading facilities, utilising 
modern technology. This includes deployment of subsurface 
expertise and skill, and modern seismic, to identify the well 
targets and then execute in ll drilling programmes. This extends 
oil eld asset lives. We have already proved this model at Thistle. 
Daily production levels have increased from lows which were 
approaching 2,000 Boepd in 2005, to over 8,000 Boepd at the 
end of 2012, which are the highest levels achieved since the late 
1990s. We have plans to invest further in Thistle, these have 
been facilitated by the new brown eld tax allowances. We are 
also investing in Heather, where we are upgrading the drilling rig 
to enable us to drill wells for the rst time since 2006. 
Marginal eld solutions are another important leg of EnQuest’s 
value creation model. We target dormant or undeveloped elds, 
that may have been too small in scale for the majors. We use a 
 exible approach and develop new solutions, redesigning and 
upgrading old facilities and using existing infrastructure. The 
EnQuest team achieved this at the Don elds and is now using a 
similar approach at Alma/Galia, with rst oil due onstream in Q4 
201 , less than three years after we secured the licence.
EnQuest’s third value creation leg is through new developments. 
We acquire interests in assets which may have been thought 
technically or nancially too challenging for others and then 
deploy EnQuest’s capabilities, to commercialise and develop 
discoveries. After Alma/Galia the new development of the 
Kraken discovery is our current focus, this would be EnQuest’s 
 fth hub.
The EnQuest Board
In August 2012, I was delighted to welcome Dr hilip Nolan to 
the Board, as a new Non-Executive Director. hil’s wealth of both 
technical and management expertise makes him a valuable 
addition to the Board as EnQuest continues to develop and 
execute its strategy.
After the assembly of an effective operations team in Aberdeen 
and the successful implementation of EnQuest’s strategy in its 
critical rst years, in November 2012, Nigel Hares decided that 
he was planning to reduce the amount of time dedicated to 
EnQuest to be balanced by more time spent on personal affairs.
Nigel therefore stood down from the Board and now advises on 
future strategy and development. Operations have continued to 
be managed by David Heslop, General Manager UKCS and his 
team. Amjad Bseisu, the rest of the Board and I are very grateful 
to Nigel for the excellent contribution he has made to EnQuest 
and we look forward to continuing to work closely with him.
EnQuest is its people. I believe that their technical knowledge 
and capability, their experience and passionate commitment 
are EnQuest’s most important assets. Although the organisation 
has grown considerably in size, it continues to retain the agility 
essential to take full advantage of new opportunities. The Board 
and I would like to thank our workforce for another year of 
delivery of good results and for putting in place the building 
blocks for the next stages of EnQuest’s growth.
Delivering sustainable growth
EnQuest is proving that it can deliver sustainable growth 
through increasing production and reserves. Whilst the UK 
North Sea will continue to be our main focus, there are also 
potential opportunities to pursue EnQuest’s strategy outside 
the UK. We have taken our rst steps internationally, in Norway 
and Malaysia. We will retain a focused approach to our 
international expansion.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
