 14
 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Four years of strong cash ﬂow generation:
450% reserve replacement ratio, reserve life over 20 years 
Reserves 2010–2013 (MMboe)
Net 2P reserves
 start 2010
December 2009
Net cash
Cash ﬂow from
operations
Tax, ﬁnance, other
Capex
December 2013
Net debt
Production
2010 to 2013
Additions to
reserves 2010 to 2013
Net 2P reserves
starts 2014
80.5
(32.7)
147.0
194.8
$8m
$2.1bn
$(0.2)bn
$(2.3)bn
$(381)m
Cash ﬂow 2010–2013
In the first four years, EnQuest generated c.$2.1 billion in 
cash flow from operations, and has invested c.$2.3 billion  
in the future growth of the business. I believe that, in risk-
adjusted terms, EnQuest is positioned at the most value 
creating part of the exploration and production lifecycle. 
EnQuest’s momentum is strong, the Board and I are more 
excited by our prospects today than at any time since 
EnQuest’s inception.
Industry context
In 2013, oil prices remained strong and stable, for the third 
year in succession. This was a healthy backdrop for 
continuing investment and new opportunities in the energy 
industry. However, there have been cost increases which  
have directly contributed to the cancellation of some 
substantial development projects in the industry. This 
competitive environment underlines the scale of EnQuest’s 
achievement in successfully delivering the sanction of the 
Kraken development. 
In 2013, EnQuest put a new credit facility in place, for up to 
$1.7 billion. As a company of substantial size, with high levels 
of cash generated from operations, EnQuest has good 
access to capital and has a strong balance sheet, providing 
capacity to acquire new assets. Sellers of oil field assets need 
buyers who not only have the required funding, but who have 
the necessary technical and operational capabilities, 
essential for the subsequent safe and effective management 
of the assets. EnQuest has all of these capabilities. Generally, 
the flow of assets available to EnQuest for possible 
acquisition has increased, facilitating potential new 
acquisition projects, such as EnQuest’s recent acquisition  
of the Greater Kittiwake Area (‘GKA’) assets. 
OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
EnQuest’s performance
EnQuest is delivering sustainable growth. 
Over our first four years to the start of 
2014, we have grown our original net 2P 
reserve base by almost 150%, 
representing a replacement ratio of 
approximately 450% and EnQuest now 
has a reserve life of over 20 years.
Dr James Buckee Chairman 15
 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
STRATEGIC
REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
For more information visit:  
www.enquest.com
We believe companies like EnQuest are the future of the UK 
North Sea. It is only by combining our skills and expertise with 
fiscal incentives that we can commit to significant new 
investments. In 2013, EnQuest benefited from aspects of the 
UK North Sea fiscal regime designed to encourage investment. 
The Thistle platform utilised a ‘brownfield’ allowance and the 
Kraken development secured two ‘heavy oil’ allowances. 
EnQuest continues to engage with the UK Government, 
seeking to optimise the fiscal structure of the UK North Sea. 
EnQuest also engages with the Scottish Government and 
welcomes statements that, in the event of there being an 
independent Scotland, the Scottish Government plans a 
stable and predictable fiscal and regulatory regime. EnQuest 
believes that in order to maximise the extraction of 
hydrocarbons, there is a fundamental requirement for a 
stable fiscal regime that incentivises investment.
EnQuest welcomes the recommendations of the 2013/2014 
Wood Review of oil and gas activity on the UK Continental 
Shelf and its regulation. Sir Ian Wood’s strategy ‘Maximising 
Economic Recovery for the UK’, proposes more rigorous 
stewardship of the UK’s remaining oil and gas resources 
through greater collaboration between operators and strong 
tripartite co-operation between the UK Department of Energy 
& Climate Change (‘DECC’), HM Treasury and the oil and gas 
industry. EnQuest believes that in some important respects the 
current system is out of date and no longer ‘fit for purpose’. It 
provides existing operators little incentive to accommodate 
third parties through their infrastructure and, without action, 
UK North Sea oil production will decline prematurely. If the 
Wood recommendations are implemented they should help to 
prolong the life of the North Sea and to maximise hydrocarbon 
extraction from this still rich maturing basin. 
EnQuest Board
There were no changes to the composition of the Board 
during 2013. The Directors collaborate in assessing and 
evolving EnQuest’s strategy and in key decisions on 
implementation; in 2013 these included the sanctioning of 
the Kraken development, the Kittiwake acquisition and 
EnQuest’s initiatives outside the UK North Sea. 
Although there were no changes to the Board itself in 2013, 
in October, EnQuest PLC announced the appointment of 
Stefan Ricketts as Company Secretary. This change followed 
Paul Waters stepping down as Company Secretary. Paul has 
been with EnQuest since its inception, the Board thanks him 
for his contribution and welcomes Stefan to his new role. 
EnQuest’s results are a reflection of the quality of all of our 
people and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank my 
EnQuest colleagues for their continued hard work, 
commitment to our values, and successful pursuit of the 
Company’s development plans. 
Governance
The Company recognises the importance of having high 
standards in all areas of governance, this includes the area of 
ENQUEST VALUES
EMPOWERMENT
One of the things I like most about EnQuest is that I am given 
clear accountability for my work and then empowered to deliver 
it. For me this means appropriate controls but, importantly, a 
lack of bureaucracy and the feeling that my efforts can really 
make a difference. I believe EnQuest’s culture of empowerment 
allows people to put their hearts into their work and gives us a 
real competitive edge.
Jane Mellor
Performance Management Team Lead
human rights. In line with the recent expansion of our 
overseas activities, we are refining our approach to these 
areas to ensure that the Company’s policies are robust for 
international as well as local operations. Our values will 
remain consistent with our existing Code of Conduct and will 
comply with all applicable laws.
In 2013 we further embedded and extended our anti-
corruption programme, by launching a Group-wide training 
programme for all employees. By the end of the year the 
great majority of our employees had completed the training, 
which is being extended to all new joiners.
Dividend
The Company has not declared or paid any dividends since 
incorporation in January 2010 and does not have current 
intentions to pay dividends in the near future. Any future 
payment of dividends is expected to depend on the  
earnings and financial condition of the Company and on  
such other factors as the Board of Directors of the  
Company considers appropriate.
Delivering sustainable growth 
2013 was another good year of delivery and progress for 
EnQuest. We continue to demonstrate that by targeting 
maturing assets and undeveloped oil fields, we can create 
value and deliver sustainable growth. In 2014, EnQuest will 
continue to invest in its current producing assets, bring 
Alma/Galia onstream, integrate the Greater Kittiwake Area 
acquisition and make substantial investments in the Kraken 
development, which is scheduled to come onstream by 2017. 
We are therefore on course for having six producing 
operated hubs in the UK and for achieving our objective of 
annual net production from the UK North Sea of around 
50,000 Boepd. Beyond that, we are creating further new 
potential from our UK asset portfolio and making low cost 
investments in international opportunities, securing 
EnQuest’s growth for the longer term. 
