 16 EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Five years of strong reserves growth
 514% reserve replacement ratio
 Reserve life over 20 years 
80.5
Net 2P reserves
start 2010
Production
2010 to 2014
Additions to
reserves 2010 to 2014
Net 2P reserves
starts 2014
(42.8)
182.3
220.0
Reserves 2010–2014 (MMboe)
 
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
During 2014, EnQuest delivered a 
strong operational performance and 
reacted swiftly to the oil price declines 
witnessed in the second half of the year. 
Dr James Buckee 
Chairman
ENQUEST VALUES
RESPECT 
Respect is key to everything that EnQuest does, both 
personally and professionally. It represents who we are, how 
we operate within the business, and how we interact with our 
external business partners and associates. Respect for safety, 
personnel and the environment is critical to how we are 
perceived by our competitors as the Company strives to 
succeed to be the best at what we do. 
JULIA WALKER, EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT STRATEGIC 
REPORT
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
17 EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
EnQuest’s performance
During 2014, EnQuest delivered a strong operational performance 
and reacted swiftly to the oil price declines witnessed in the second 
half of the year. The Company has a significant capital programme 
associated with its Kraken investment in 2015 and 2016 and looks 
forward to 2017, when Kraken is planned to be onstream.
Despite the recent downturn in the oil price, since EnQuest’s 
inception five years ago, we have grown our original net 2P 
reserve base by over 173%, representing a replacement ratio of 
514%. Consequently, EnQuest started 2015, with a reserve life of 
over 20 years. During these first five years, EnQuest generated 
c.$2.7 billion in cash flow from operations. 
Industry background 
From the outset, EnQuest has worked closely with the industry 
and the UK Government to bring about structural changes to 
the business environment in the North Sea, which we believe are 
essential to the future of the industry. The North Sea needs a stable 
and incentivising fiscal regime with regulation that encourages new 
development activity and promotes greater collaboration between 
operators, leading to a lower cost base. The steep decline in 
oil prices during the latter part of 2014 has acted as a catalyst 
for action. 
EnQuest’s response to lower oil prices
In response to declining oil prices, EnQuest took action to 
protect against further oil price falls and to maximise cost reduction. 
EnQuest accelerated its oil price hedging programme and worked 
closely with the supply chain to reduce operating and capital 
expenditure. While we remain confident about the long term 
prospects for the oil price, we are managing our business so as to 
allow us to withstand a more prolonged period of lower oil prices. 
EnQuest’s funding facilities include a $1.2 billion committed 
credit facility, with a $500 million accordion. EnQuest renegotiated 
covenants with its lending banks and these have been relaxed until 
mid-2017. Ongoing continued compliance with its covenants is a 
priority for 2015 and beyond. With its credit facility and a long 
dated debt maturity profile, the financial position of the Company 
remains resilient. 
At the same time, EnQuest delivered very good operational 
performance in 2014, with strong production growth and 
industry leading levels of production efficiency. The Alma/Galia 
development project recovered from delays in the first half of 2014, 
and since then it has remained on schedule. Since its sanction at the 
end of 2013, the Kraken development project has consistently been 
on schedule and on budget. 
The EnQuest Board
The composition of the Board remained constant during 2014. The 
Directors assess and evolve EnQuest’s strategy, taking key decisions 
on its implementation. In 2014 these included the acquisition of 
EnQuest’s first producing assets outside the North Sea, and in 2015 
the Board also took measured actions in light of the lower oil price 
environment, in terms of setting the new business plans for 2015 
and beyond. 
EnQuest’s results are a reflection of the quality of our people and on 
behalf of the Board, I would like to thank my EnQuest colleagues for 
their continued hard work, commitment to our values, and 
successful pursuit of the Company’s development plans. 
 
Governance 
In 2014, EnQuest complied in full with the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code. In September 2014, the Financial Reporting 
Council published the revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code, compliance with which will continue to be reported annually by 
EnQuest. We are well advanced in implementing our responses to the 
changes brought in by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Corporate governance for EnQuest is not merely following a set of 
rules, but embedding a framework which supports our core values 
and, provides structure for how we are organised, how we manage 
risk, how we behave and how we provide assurance in respect of 
performance. In 2014, the Board strengthened a number of areas 
of corporate governance including the risk management framework 
and corporate responsibility. We work to ensure that all elements of 
corporate governance are part of our corporate culture and we have 
developed an environment which nurtures, develops and maintains 
our approach. 
The Board reviewed the Company’s corporate responsibility model. 
We ensured that we have strong relevant policies in place, covering 
the areas of Health and Safety, People, Business Environment, 
Business Conduct and Community. We will be working towards 
monitoring the impact and progress of these areas in the coming 
period. Our UK Health and Safety policy has now also been 
implemented in our international projects in Malaysia, with 
supplemental policies as required by local legislation.
Dividend
The Company has not declared or paid any dividends since 
incorporation in January 2010 and does not intend to pay dividends 
in the near future. Any future payment of dividends is expected to 
depend on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and 
on such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company 
considers appropriate.
Delivering sustainable growth
We are managing our business to withstand a prolonged period 
of low oil prices and I am confident that EnQuest will emerge from 
this down cycle in even better shape to implement our strategy 
successfully. The life of the Alma/Galia field is over ten years and the 
Kraken field has a twenty five year life, this is a long term business. 
