 06 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2006
Continued strong growth in all forms 
of private aviation transportation
JetCard launched to capture more 
of growing HNWI market
Further strengthening of team 
and management
Post balance sheet date acquisition of 
Gold Air International Limited (“Gold Air”) 
positions the Group to take further market 
share in private jet market
It is extremely pleasing to report on yet another strong year for the 
Group. The results reinforce our belief in our corporate strategy which 
continues to deliver double-digit percentage growth in both sales and 
profit, and allows us to pay increasing dividends for our shareholders. 
It also provides us with real evidence that our investment into people, 
management and training is being rewarded. 
Although Air Partner has reported two consecutive record financial 
years, they were strikingly different in composure. 2005 was driven by 
five significant one-off contracts, but 2006 was notable for its wider 
spread of business, pleasingly derived from meaningful contributions 
across the whole Group; all of Air Partner’s established territories 
were profitable and all but two increased sales or profitability. This 
provides evidence that the Group is integrally strong and that each 
part is a net positive contributor. In addition our four start-up offices 
Japan, Italy, US West Coast, and Spain are on track for profitability in 
line with internal budgets. The successes in the period under review 
stem from a strong market, an efficient structure, advanced team 
skills, real perseverance and effective management. They are a 
testament to the Group’s focus on diversifying its earnings by 
geography, product and industry sector.
The rapid growth in the private jet charter market is driven by three 
key factors: strong Western economies, an increasingly ‘cash-rich 
time-poor’ society, and a mass air-transport network burdened by 
heightened security measures. In addition, growing personal and 
corporate wealth, dependence on low-cost carriers and fears over 
global security, have all helped push customers towards the services 
provided by Air Partner. The Group does not expect any of these 
factors to diminish in the foreseeable future.
David Savile Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review
Attention to detail Training
_1_AIR_arf06.indd   7 20/10/2006   09:38:59 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2006 07
However, to lay the credit of these results solely at the door of the 
marketplace would be to deny the extraordinary efforts of our teams 
who, across each and every shift, have fully utilised the opportunities 
presented to them. It is through their professionalism that Air Partner 
continues to build its outstanding reputation for successful flights, 
including some of the most demanding of missions that are undertaken 
by the civilian sector today. The result is not only another record year, 
but a pointer to the Group’s potential future profitability.
The increase in sales over 2005 in logistical terms equates to almost 
5,000 additional flights, with most of this in the second half of the 
year. While this has challenged our teams, their commitment has 
been outstanding in covering additional workloads while new team 
members have been recruited and trained. Hence we continue to 
invest for growth on all fronts and I am pleased to report that in line 
with this our active client numbers have increased by 18% in the last 
twelve months. 
The Group operates in three key sectors: Government, Corporate, 
and Private (High net worth individual or “HNWI”). Air Partner is the 
leading supplier to the Government sector and this year has worked 
with six of the G8, and a further 20 smaller Governments and Heads 
of State. In addition, we remain a leading player in the corporate 
sector providing solutions to complex itineraries for some of the 
largest companies in the world. In the year under review both the 
Government and Corporate sectors have provided good levels of 
business and the teams have performed well.
Last year the Group announced that it would make significant 
investment in developing its position in the HNWI Jet-for-Leisure 
market, and our launch of The JetCard (www.JetCard.co.uk) in 
July 2006 represents a planned £2 million commitment over the next 
two years. In addition to this, on 11 October 2006 we announced the 
acquisition of Gold Air, a London-based private jet operator and 
aircraft management company, for £4.4 million. These two strategic 
moves provide us with an unrivalled base from which to profitably 
build market share in the HNWI sector and in doing so, the Group’s 
Private sector will increase its competition with fractional ownership 
schemes like US rival NetJets. NetJets was the first mover in the 
European jet card market, and should be credited with increasing the 
awareness and acceptability of private jet travel; over the last two 
years a significant number of new customers have been introduced to 
private jet travel through their prolific advertising campaigns. Today 
Air Partner has positioned itself to seek a share of this market and we 
are proud of our unique ability to offer a full range of world class, 
branded private jet services that offer Air Partner’s clients five different 
ways to access private jet use.
The full details of today’s acquisition of Gold Air are available on 
RNS. However, the earnings enhancing transaction is in line with the 
Group’s stated strategy to further invest in the private jet market and 
post the transaction, Air Partner will control the UK’s newest fleet of 
private jets, have added 150 active customers to its client base and 
further diversified its revenue streams to include private jet management 
and sales – all without owning the fleet. 
The expansion of our international office network continues to serve 
us well, providing a greater range of opportunities from which to 
develop increasing business. Having established a backbone of 
offices that spans 15,000 miles across the key business centres, we 
now have the structure for further growth. 
“ ...on 11 October 2006 we announced the acquisition of Gold Air 
International Ltd, a London-based private jet operator and aircraft 
management company.”
Presence Value
_1_AIR_arf06.indd   8 20/10/2006   09:39:05 08 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2006
Geographic review
The UK 
This has always been, and remains, the powerhouse of Group 
profitability. However the stride towards diversification of profits sees 
the UK now generating 52% (2005: 61%) of overall Group PBT. After 
an impressive 2005 performance, the UK did well to continue both 
sales growth and fee income, as it expanded its team and launched 
the JetCard scheme, causing a small drop in profitability. 
We continue to secure an increasing number of contracts, both of ad 
hoc and short-term nature and opportunities continue in abundance. 
Prior to the launch of JetCard at the year-end, our existing Jet Membership 
Programme exceeded its year target in both card sales and profitability. 
This work provides an ideal springboard for our new product.
Europe
Our French offices re-established their former impressive profitability 
track record, doubling PBT over 2005 levels on sales that increased 
35% year on year. This team is pre-eminent amongst its domestic 
competitors and their success is evidence of this.
The German team saw further sales growth and new client acquisitions, 
despite an uncertain business environment. However, profitability was 
affected due to tighter margins and a weaker contribution from its 
normally strong Austrian satellite. Since the year-end we have 
consolidated our Frankfurt operation into an expanding central office 
in Cologne, as it takes on a larger team.
This year our Italian office welcomed a new country manager, relocated 
to the heart of the business district in Milan, and has subsequently 
moved into operational profit on the back of significant additional 
business. We are confident it will be profitable by the half year. 
The Swiss office in Zurich continues profitably, albeit on reduced figures. 
Unusually for a newly-seeded office, I am pleased to report that 
Spain achieved profitability in its very first year. The immediate future 
is also positive.
The USA
Now comprising three East Coast and one West Coast office, this 
territory now provides the second largest contribution, representing 
27% of Group PBT. The US again produced an extremely impressive 
performance, matching the exceptional nature of last year. Client 
numbers increased, with over a quarter of fee income deriving from 
new clients, particularly in the entertainment sector, specifically 
targeted by our team in San Francisco.
Rest of the World
Further afield, our UAE team, based at the main airport in Dubai has 
continued to win new contracts and new clients. As a result, we invested 
in new team members and have doubled profitability from last year.
The Asian and Far Eastern offices each provide important client and 
supply functions for the main Western parts of the Group, where their 
contribution increases local earnings. We are very pleased to have 
them as key components in our global team. 
“ Having a backbone of offices that spans 15,000 miles across the key 
business centres, we now have the structure for further growth.”
Chief Executive’s review continued
_1_AIR_arf06.indd   9 20/10/2006   09:39:08 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2006 09
Our Australian leasing operation continued satisfactorily during the 
year reported, as the contract matured through its fifth of six and a 
half years. Post year-end, we realised the value of two of the four 
Metro-liners, selling them above book value and with future rental 
compensation. We have re-invested part of the funds in a 1995 Saab 
SF340B which is more than ten years younger than our previous 
average airframe age. The Saab is a more desirable aircraft with 
potentially firmer residuals; the move allows us to maintain a steady 
income flow from the stronger of our two lessees. 
Current trading and outlook
While two back-to-back record years and more progress against our 
stated aims is extremely encouraging, shareholders need to remember 
that we have built this business on ad hoc demand. The market for air 
travel continues to boom, and with it, the need for exclusive air travel. 
Chartering your own aircraft remains the consistent answer for clients 
who prefer to be in control of air travel for either their goods or 
themselves. For private jet users, you decide who travels, be it your 
family or your business colleagues, so there are no unfamiliar faces 
on board and hence no security risk. You stipulate when and where 
you go, and in what degree of style, space and comfort. 
The strong performance of our private jet business is underpinned by 
the solid foundations of the commercial aircraft division which 
continues to perform ahead of expectations. In today’s climate of 
high security and longer delays, the Group provides an ideal  
alternative solution to scheduled air travel, at an affordable and high 
quality level. We therefore believe that our business has a strong and 
increasingly profitable future. Within the medium term, there will 
always be the risk of cyclicality as economies vary around the world. 
However the progress made in recent years to diversify our earnings 
streams leaves us less exposed to cyclical downturns than ever before. 
The reality of our business is that our clients reserve aircraft at short 
notice. Today is no different, and it can be a mistake to read too much 
into forward bookings; that said, our current forwards are considerably 
in excess of the comparable situation last year, reinforcing our view 
that the market remains strong, and providing cause for further 
encouragement. Having for the first time achieved profits in excess of 
£5 million, we hope that this will provide a new benchmark for the 
Group to maintain and exceed going forward. 
David Savile
Chief Executive 
11 October 2006
“ Having for the first time achieved profits in excess of £5 million, we 
hope that this will provide a new benchmark for the Group to maintain 
and exceed going forward.”
_1_AIR_arf06.indd   10 20/10/2006   09:39:10
