 Air Partner PLC is the world’s largest corporate aircraft charter company 
with 20 offices in a dozen countries, spanning Europe, North America, 
the Middle East and Asia. The Group operates a full 24-hour flight 
operations centre providing clients with instant access to its chartered 
aircraft services year round. 
Air Partner PLC: a world player
Air Partner is a people business; over the last three decades its team 
of professionals has established and earned an enviable reputation 
for masterminding some of the most complex civil aviation operations 
flown today. New missions are launched at a moment’s notice, flying 
key movers and shakers into, and out from, the most obscure or 
challenging airports; additionally it flies tens of thousands of flights 
each year to the more traditional business and leisure destinations.
The Company was established 45 years ago and has become the 
largest retailer of high quality airliner, executive jet and freight charters 
anywhere. This year (2006), the Company employs almost 
150 aviation professionals, has a market cap of $100m and sales 
approaching $0.25bn. It will fly in excess of 40,000 flight hours.
Air Partner provides aircraft charter to industry, commerce and 
Governments – a business strategy that was proven in the 
United Kingdom 20 years ago, and in the last decade was rolled out 
across the wider business world. This is a British company taking its 
expertise into a global market, offering a “Global and Local” service.
The Company prides itself on its independence and puts its market 
leadership down to the ability of its team to personalise the service, 
whilst maintaining the highest levels of quality, professional expertise 
and independent advice. Every flight is tailormade by people who 
really understand the needs of clients and know how to deliver 
perfect flights, with attention to detail that is second to none. 
Best value-for-money is assured using its own smart procurement 
methods, guaranteeing that clients receive the finest and most suitable 
aircraft at the lowest market rates on the day.
02 Air Partner PLC Annual report 2006
At a glance
_1_AIR_arf06.indd   3 20/10/2006   09:38:38 The highest degree of specialism across all client sectors
Air Partner PLC is the market leader for Government charters, 
with 35% of Group sales deriving from this sector. It is vetted, 
authorised and used by Royal families and Governments from 
30 countries, in addition to the NGOs such as the United Nations, 
the Red Cross and the EU. Over the last decade alone, many 
thousands of contracts worth over $500m have been successfully 
completed for the Governments of a dozen Western Powers including 
six of the current G8 member states.
In recognition of service excellence, in 2004 the CEO, David Savile, 
was granted a Royal Warrant as Provider of Aircraft Charter 
to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, an honour granted to no other 
aviation company. The Company is pleased to have been serving the 
Royal Household continuously since 1998.
Air Partner is, however, no elitist supplier: its services are depended on 
by a wide range of users, all of whom have the need for logistical 
excellence and first time delivery. With over 100 flights being 
despatched on average every business day, the team is equally 
accomplished at organising a business jet to fly a CEO around Europe 
or North America as it is co-ordinating 70 large passenger jets to 
move 10,000 delegates to a major product launch. Furthermore, 
outside business hours, the duty operations team has the privilege of 
arranging hundreds of life-saving air ambulance and organ transplant 
flights each year.
In addition to its dominant role in the Government and Corporate 
sectors, over the last two years the Company has made significant 
investment in the retail (HNWI) sector. In 2004 it launched 
its Jet Membership Programme, a card scheme that entitled members 
to fixed prices and guaranteed availability on quality business jets. 
This summer it has upgraded and expanded it into today’s JetCard 
product (www.thejetcard.co.uk).
The Company also operates the only integrated corporate air evacuation 
service available today. Subscription clients have priority access to a 
wide range of aircraft suitable for rescuing corporate employees from 
the world’s hotspots to points of safe haven, with procedures assured 
through intensive military-style pre-planning.
In summary, Air Partner is a world-class aircraft charter company, with 
the talent, experience and professionalism to provide the ideal aircraft 
solution for any client need. However simple or extreme that need 
may be, the Company has all the required skills and facilities to 
deliver success, and a proven operational, commercial and financial 
reputation to give users real peace of mind. 
Air Partner PLC Annual report 2006 03
“ The Company employs almost 150 aviation professionals, has a market 
cap of $100m and sales approaching $0.25bn.”
_1_AIR_arf06.indd   4 20/10/2006   09:38:38
