 4
ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Results
The year to 30 September 2002 has once again delivered strong growth in earnings to Enterprise Inns
and its shareholders.Total Group operating profit before exceptional items almost doubled, increasing
by 95% to £204 million, fuelled by like for like growth of 9% in the core estate and further enhanced by
the successful integration of key strategic acquisitions made over the past two years.
High quality acquisitions, a clearly focused investment programme alongside licensees and aggressive
pruning of under-performing outlets have once again significantly improved the quality and potential of
the enlarged Enterprise estate of 5,266 pubs, with average operating profit per pub up by 24% to
£46,000.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 48% to 58.4p, continuing a trend that has seen the Enterprise
team deliver compound annual growth in earnings per share of 32% over the seven year period since
flotation in 1995.
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
60
50
40
30
20  
10
0
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40  
20
0
12.5
21.2
33.1
52.6
75.6
104.7
204.0
Adjusted EPS (pence)
Operating Profit before exceptional items (£m)
10.8 10.6
16.1
19.0
31.5
39.5
58.4 5
ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Acquisitions
During the past year, we successfully completed two significant, transforming corporate transactions:
Unique Pub Company
In March 2002, working alongside a consortium of venture capitalists, we created a special purpose
vehicle to acquire the Unique and Voyager estates of some 4,200 pubs. Independently managed, this
high quality national estate is performing well, and is expected to deliver an annual rate of return of
over 20% on our £75 million investment.
At the time of the transaction, the venture capital consortium granted Enterprise a call option to acquire
their equity for a fixed price of £720m.This call option may be exercised between January and
November 2004.
In September 2002, the Unique and Voyager estates were combined and the level of securitised debt in
the combined business was increased to £1.8 billion.The success of this securitisation enabled Unique
to repay £85 million to the venture capital consortium. Subject to satisfying certain conditions, a further
increase in debt of approximately £170 million has been approved in principle by the bond holders,
which funds may again be used to repay the venture capital consortium.
As a result of these repayments, the fixed price at which Enterprise can acquire in March 2004 the
balance of equity not already owned has been reduced from £720 million to £608 million and may be
further reduced if the second debt issue proceeds.
Laurel Pub Partnerships (LPP)
In May 2002 we acquired the LPP estate from Morgan Grenfell Private Equity for £881 million.This
national estate of 1,860 leased and tenanted pubs is recognised as one of the best pub estates in the UK
and it formed an excellent geographical fit with our existing estate.
The integration of the LPP business has been completed within budget and slightly ahead of schedule.
The LPP offices in Luton were closed in July, having successfully transferred all systems and
administrative functions to the new Enterprise head office in Solihull. Following a further period of
careful planning and communication with licensees, the Enterprise and LPP estates were fully integrated
on 1 October 2002. Our new field operations structure now comprises two sectors, north and south,
each comprising 7 divisions, with each having 7 regions of approximately 54 pubs per region.
The acquisition has once again highlighted our ability to identify acquisition opportunities, complete
the transaction and effectively integrate the pubs into our growing estate.We are delighted that the
majority of the former LPP field-based team chose to stay with Enterprise, providing continuity and a
wealth of experience which has contributed in such a positive manner to the seamless integration of
this major acquisition. 6
ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The skills that we have developed and the experience gained from integrating the many acquisitions
that we have made in the past seven years mean that we can plan with confidence the integration of
the Unique estate should we exercise the call option in 2004.
Leases and tenancies
Since flotation in 1995, we have worked hard to demonstrate the long term strengths of the leased and
tenanted pub sector. Financially, they are relatively simple to understand — strong, predictable and
transparent profit and cash flows, an appreciating asset base, along with the availability of attractive
fixed rate long-term funding and a resilience to the economic cycle.
I am pleased that gradually we are creating an awareness in the market that double digit earnings
growth is achievable within the core estate, with pure organic growth and market share gain
complemented by effective management of the pub estate and the cash generated from our business.
Perhaps more importantly for the long term, the retail benefits of the leased and tenanted sector have
become more apparent as sensible investment and estate churning have enhanced the overall quality of
the pubs and the potential profit for licensees.
Unlike the branded pub chains, where a standard format is decided centrally and then imposed nationally,
we seek originality through the diversity of the estate, working alongside and encouraging licensees to
develop their pub in a style which suits them and their customers.Whatever the format, food led or
entertainment venue, specialist cask ale or sports bar, community pub or destination outlet, the Enterprise
estate abounds with examples where a committed, entrepreneurial licensee has worked in partnership
with the Enterprise team to develop their pub as the preferred choice for customers in its location.
There are of course challenges to this symbiotic relationship between pub companies and their
licensees, above all the need to ensure that the licensees are given every opportunity to succeed and are
properly rewarded for their efforts. In this respect, we believe that Retailers in Partnership model offers
the package most likely to appeal to licensees. Our comprehensive drinks range, which may be centrally
ordered and single-drop delivered, includes brands from more than 100 brewers in the UK and overseas.
Open negotiation, a commitment to fair rents, a cooling off period for new licensees and no upwards-
only rent reviews means that our lease and tenancy agreements are highly regarded in the industry.
Training, investment and business support are tailored to meet the needs of each licensee and the
business that they are seeking to create. In short, we recognise that good licensees are the vital
ingredient to the success of our business and we seek to attract the best by offering the fairest package.
Conclusion
This has been a very successful, transforming year for Enterprise Inns.With the acquisition of LPP we
have become the largest operator of leased and tenanted pubs in the UK and, more importantly for the CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
long-term success of the business, we now own what we believe to be the highest quality portfolio of
leased and tenanted pubs in the UK.
Our reputation amongst licensees continues to grow as we are seen to have a long-term commitment to
the sector and a recognition that fairness in our relationship with licensees is the key to long-term
mutual success and profitability.
Our new head office in Solihull brings all employees under one roof, including the new in-house
customer service and telesales team.These new offices provide not only a top-quality working
environment but also have capacity to absorb the additional head office staff required to operate the
Unique estate should the option be exercised in 2004.The head office and field-based teams continue to
perform ahead of expectations, evident by the continuing success of the business, built upon a culture
of openness, empowerment, accountability and reward.
We are committed to delivering strong returns to all our shareholders through appropriate operating
disciplines and an optimal financing structure.The new financial year has started well and the team
looks forward with confidence to continued success and long-term growth in returns for shareholders.
TED TUPPEN
Chief Executive
7
ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002
