 3
ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I
am delighted to report on our results and activities in the year to 30 September 2002. During the 
year we achieved strong growth in our financial performance, invested £75 million for a 16.8% stake
in The Unique Pub Company Limited (formed by an equity consortium to purchase both the Unique
and Voyager pub estates totalling 4,189 pubs), and acquired 1,860 pubs from Laurel Pub Holdings
Limited for a total consideration of £881 million.These investments were financed by a combination of
increased borrowings and the proceeds of a rights issue which raised £292 million net of fees and
expenses.
The results benefited from the two investments made in 2001 (the acquisition of 439 managed pubs
from MGPE in June followed by the purchase of 431 managed pubs from S&N in July), the contribution
from the Laurel Pub Partnerships (LPP) estate, and from our share of Unique Pub Company Limited
income net of interest.
Operating profit before exceptional items increased by 95% to £204 million and profit before tax and
exceptional items rose by 83% to £114.5 million. Exceptional items in the year of £22.2 million included
£8.5 million expenses associated with the acquisition of the LPP pubs, £7.6 million representing the
write-off of unamortised bank fees resulting from the refinancing of debt facilities and £5.9 million
representing our 16.8% share of exceptional costs incurred by Unique Pub Company (Unique).
Earnings per share, excluding exceptional items, increased by 48% to 58.4 pence.
During the year accounting standard FRS19, Deferred Tax, has been adopted and full provision for deferred
taxation has been made. Earnings per share calculations reflect the full provisioning methodology and
prior year numbers have been restated to reflect this and the bonus element of the rights issue.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.4 pence per share, making a total for the year of
14.1 pence per share.At the time of the rights issue I said in my letter to shareholders that future
dividends would be adjusted to take account of the bonus element of the rights issue. However, I am
pleased to report that the directors now feel this to be unnecessary given the Company’s strong and
stable cash flows.The final dividend payment of 9.4 pence equates to a 42% increase on prior year if the
prior year payment of 8.2p is restated to 6.6p to take account of the bonus element of the rights issue.
The total dividend will be covered 3.1 times, but when adjusted for exceptional items will be covered
4.2 times.The dividend will be paid on 24 January 2003 subject to shareholder approval.
These strong financial results demonstrate both the robust nature of our business model and the
capability to evaluate successfully the potential returns from acquisitions and then to deliver them as
anticipated.
It has been another successful and demanding year for Enterprise and our thanks are due to all our staff
and licensees for rising to the challenges they have faced.We extend our thanks also to our shareholders
and suppliers for their support and welcome particularly the many new licensees who have joined us in
the past year.
Our enlarged estate provides the Company with many opportunities for continued profitable growth
and we look forward to another year of solid progress.
Hubert Reid
Chairman
