 4 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to report on our results for the year to 30 September 2004 in which we continued the strong
growth in the Company’s financial performance and further expanded the scale of our business. Total operating
profit before exceptional items increased by 37% over prior year to £402.7 million and profit before tax and
exceptional items rose by 33% to £231.2 million. Adjusted earnings per share increased by 32% to 47.5 pence.
The results benefited from a full contribution in the second half of the year from The Unique Pub Company
Limited (Unique), its acquisition having been completed on 31 March 2004 and from the growth in profitability
in our core estate. 
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 8.4 pence per share, making a total for the year of 12.0
pence per share, an increase of 40% over the prior year. This will be payable on 24 January 2005. Dividend
cover, at nearly 4 times adjusted earnings per share, remains high and in this financial year we anticipate
continuing the policy of setting dividend levels broadly in line with earnings growth. The policy for future years
will be reviewed taking account of the needs of the business and having consulted with shareholders. We
expect to announce the outcome of this review with our preliminary results for the year ending 30 September
2005. 
At the start of the financial year the estate comprised 5,087 pubs. The acquisition of Unique added 4,054 pubs
to the estate. During the course of the year 22 pubs were acquired at a cost of £12.9 million and 197 individual
pubs were sold, realising proceeds of £49.5 million. In addition, on 14 April 2004, the sale of 239 pubs to
Admiral Taverns was completed realising proceeds of £61.0 million, net of disposal costs. This sale reduced the
number of pubs owned by the Group to no more than 25% of the total number of pubs in any Petty Sessional
Division (PSD). Subsequently, in line with its practice in similar transactions where the merged companies own
less than the 25% threshold of pubs in any PSD, the Office of Fair Trading decided not to refer the acquisition
of Unique to the Competition Commission. At the end of the financial year the estate comprised 8,727 pubs.
Earlier this month we announced the appointment of Susan Murray as an independent non-executive director of
the Company. Susan brings extensive experience of both the drinks and retail sectors which will be invaluable
to the Company as we move into the next phase of our growth. At the same time, we announced that Michael
Garner, Senior Independent Director, will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting on 20 January 2005. Michael joined the Board in September 1995, immediately prior to the
Company’s flotation, and has made an outstanding contribution to the successful development of Enterprise
over the past nine years. We record our warmest thanks and appreciation of his wise counsel. Jo Stewart, who
has served on the Board since May 2001, will succeed Michael as Senior Independent Director.
The Group’s strategy remains focused on building shareholder value through investment in the development of
its licensed estate and the optimal use of the cash flows which are generated. Operationally, our priority during
the current year is to complete the integration of Unique successfully and to strive for continuous improvement
in all aspects of our business. The enlarged estate provides us with many opportunities for profitable growth
and strong cash generation and we look forward to another year of solid progress.
Hubert Reid
Chairman
