 4 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to report on our results for the year to 30 September 2005, which proved to be another year of
strong growth in our financial performance stemming from continuing improvements in the profitability of our
high quality pub estate and a full-year contribution from the Unique estate, acquired in March 2004. 
Total operating profit before exceptional items increased by 29% over the prior year to £520.2 million and profit
before tax and exceptional items rose by 32% to £305.6 million. Adjusted earnings per share increased by 33%
to 63.2 pence.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 12.4 pence per share, making a total for the year of 18.0
pence, an increase of 50% over the prior year with an adjusted EPS cover of 3.5 times. The final dividend will
be payable on 23 January 2006, to members on the register on 30 December 2005.
The Board has reviewed the Company’s dividend policy for 2005/6 and future years and believes that, taking
account of the level of Group borrowings, it is appropriate to maintain future dividend cover of between 2.5 and
3.0 times earnings. Consequently it envisages increasing dividend payments in 2005/6 to move within these
parameters and thereafter intends to increase dividends broadly in line with the growth in earnings per share. 
Free cash inflow after interest, tax, dividend payments and capital expenditure amounted to £137 million in
the year. Along with proceeds from pub disposals this facilitated a reduction in gross borrowings, net of cash, of
£157 million in the year. At the year-end pro-forma net debt was £3.1 billion, with interest costs 100% fixed at
an average rate of 6.9% for an average life of 14 years. 
The Group’s strategy remains focused on building shareholder value through investment in the development of
its licensed estate and the optimum use of the strong and predictable cash flows which are generated from the
predominantly freehold pub estate. The Board’s policy is to maintain efficient leverage of the balance sheet in
the context of the level of profit generated and the valuation of the pub estate. It is intended to commence a
rolling share buy-back programme to return surplus cash to shareholders and to ensure that the balance sheet
remains efficient. There is authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the issued share capital and the Board
anticipates purchasing shares to the value of at least £200 million during the current financial year.
As required by EC regulations and in common with all other listed companies, Enterprise will adopt
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as the basis of preparing its Group accounts from the
financial year beginning in 2005. As such, this will be the last set of results that are reported using UK
accounting standards. In April 2006 we plan to publish the opening transitional IFRS balance sheet as at 
1 October 2004 and the 2005 interim and full year results re-stated under IFRS. This will include a
reconciliation from the published UK GAAP results and a full explanation of all the changes that have been
made. The first set of results to be reported using IFRS will be the interim results published in May 2006. 
There will be no impact on cash flows in the business or on our debt covenants. 
The Board is confident that the Enterprise estate continues to provide many opportunities for profitable growth
and strong cash generation and we look forward to another year of solid progress.
Hubert Reid
Chairman
