 RESULTS
The year to 30 September 2006 has once again seen continued improvements in the quality and profitability of
the Enterprise Inns (ETI) estate and further growth in shareholder value.
Group EBITDA before exceptional items increased to £547 million, equivalent to £64,200 per pub based upon the
weighted average number of pubs (8,522) owned during the year, an increase of 5.2% in EBITDA per pub over the
prior year. Profit before tax and exceptional items grew by 8.6% to £315 million and adjusted earnings per share
increased by 17% to 68.3p. 
STRATEGY
The key strengths of the ETI business have been clarity and focus. From the day that the business was created in
1991, our two Mission Statements have remained unchanged: “to deliver long-term sustainable growth in
shareholder value” and “to be the leading specialist operator of leased and tenanted pubs in the UK”.
This clarity of purpose and consistency of application has delivered excellent results over the years. Not only has
our estate increased in size from the 368 pubs that we purchased in 1991 to 7,809 at 30 September 2006 but,
more importantly, we have seen a continuous increase in the quality, profitability and sustainability of the pubs.
This is reflected in average EBITDA per pub having increased from £19,700 in 1992 to £66,700 today.
We remain convinced that the leased and tenanted model, combining the entrepreneurial flair and commitment
of independent licensees with the experience and financial strength of a major company, offers the best formula
to create ongoing success in the pub industry of the future. We never cease to admire the ingenuity and
professionalism of our licensees, whether it is their gritty determination in the tough times or outstanding
innovation and flair in exciting times.
The clarity and simplicity of our operating model has also delivered outstanding returns to our shareholders, with
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of some 2,640% over the eleven years since our flotation on the London Stock
Exchange in 1995, compared to 147% for the FTSE All-Share over the same period.
This commitment to shareholder value underlies our current strategy of returning cash to shareholders through
our ongoing share buy-back programme. We believe that prices paid for pubs in some recent corporate
transactions may in time prove to be value destructive, particularly where the prices paid seem not to be driven
by the long-term quality and sustainability of the pubs but by the availability of large amounts of relatively
cheap funding.
In such a market, we prefer to take the opportunity to sell pubs which do not fit in with our long-term quality
objectives and to use the strength of the financial markets to optimise the performance of our balance sheet for
the benefit of our shareholders. It is of course possible that acquisition opportunities at a sensible price may
become available, in which case we would review these in detail and pursue them with vigour if appropriate.
TEAM
Our strategy has been driven by a commitment throughout the organisation to integrity, simplicity and
empowerment. These values have enabled ETI to expand rapidly through acquisition, effectively integrating large
numbers of pubs into the organisation with minimum disruption. Rapid expansion does from time to time bring
with it some inevitable inefficiencies and cultural differences and it has been particularly rewarding in the past
twelve months to enjoy a period of stability where we were able to make some structural and organisational
changes, not so much to reduce costs but primarily to streamline the business and improve the quality of
support that we give to our licensees.
Ownership, commitment and reward are critical ingredients in the motivation and retention of key staff and we
are delighted that 100% of senior managers at ETI have some form of interest in the ownership of the business,
through direct share ownership, share options, Share Incentive Plans or the Save as you Earn scheme. Indeed,
90% of all employees who have been with ETI for two years or more have an interest in the shares of the
Company.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 3
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 3 ESTATE
The quality, value and profitability of the ETI estate have continued to improve during the year, reflecting our
investment alongside licensees and astute acquisitions and disposals. 
We invested £54 million of capital expenditure into the estate and, together with a similar level of expenditure
by our licensees, have improved 1,390 pubs, either through major schemes or minor refurbishments. Much of this
expenditure has been focused on preparing our pub estate for the forthcoming ban on smoking, due to be
introduced in Wales in April 2007 and England in July 2007. With 89% of our pubs having already developed
outside trading areas and over 85% now offering food, we are confident that the majority of our licensees are
well placed to benefit from the forthcoming ban which will, after all, make pubs more attractive to the
significant majority of pub goers and current non-users who do not smoke.
We continued to improve the quality of the estate through churn, buying 95 excellent pubs for a total
consideration of £80 million. Furthermore, we took advantage of a very strong market to sell those pubs which
we had already identified as not fitting our quality and profitability profile for the future. During the year we sold
107 pubs in individual and small package transactions, generating proceeds of £48 million. In addition, in
September 2006, we completed the sale of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns for total consideration of £318 million.
Our total disposal programme delivered a net profit, accounted for as an exceptional item in the accounts, of £67
million above book value. 
This policy of investment and churn, plus an encouraging revaluation of 6.5% in the underlying value of the
estate, has seen average EBITDA per pub increase to £66,700 for the 7,809 pubs which we owned at 
30 September 2006. The book value of the pub estate at the year end, valued on an individual pub by pub basis,
was £5.4 billion, equivalent to an average value per pub of £685,000. Our independent valuers advise us that the
valuation would be some 15% higher if valuing the estate as a whole.
As part of our annual estates review, we form a view of the quality and sustainability of every pub in the estate.
Although inevitably somewhat subjective, this process has provided a useful measure of the improving nature of
the estate over time. With great pubs scoring as a 1 and potential disposals scored as a 5, we see strong
correlations between pub quality and licensee profitability. It is very satisfying to see that both the average
quality score and the quality profile of the estate have continued to improve over the year.
On 20 November 2006 we entered into a binding agreement for the sale of our entire Scottish estate of 137
pubs to Retail & Licensed Properties Limited for a consideration of £115 million, generating a profit over book
value of £13 million. Whilst many of these pubs matched our normal retention criteria, this was a strategic sale
reflecting our lack of critical mass in Scotland, a market that has many different characteristics to England and
Wales and one where the leased and tenanted concept is not so well established.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
4 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
54 3 2 1
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10% 
5%
0%
3
0
8
5
33
31
36
39
20
25
n Sept 2005 n Sept 2006
Pub Quality Scores
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 4 LICENSEES 
A top quality estate of pubs generates sustainable profits for shareholders and licensees alike and it is the link
between the quality of our pubs, the profitability of our licensees and our operating profit which is critical to our
long-term success. If we are to attract the best licensees, they must be able to see the opportunity to achieve
appropriate rewards for their hard work and investment. This is not just a function of pub quality but also, against
a backdrop of increasing costs and bureaucracy, of the essential fairness of the package that we offer, particularly
the level of rent charged and the help and support that we give. 
In what has been a year of rising costs for licensees, we are satisfied that we have maintained our commitment
to fair rents and once again we are pleased that our estate leads the way in providing worthwhile returns for our
hard-working licensees. Based upon our annual review of the ETI estate, we estimate that the average level of
licensee profitability in the 7,809 pubs that we owned at 30 September 2006 has increased by 7% to £45,000.
There is of course a benefit of estate churn in this average increase, but we nevertheless estimate that on a like-
for-like basis, licensee profitability in our pubs has increased in line with inflation.
We are pleased that licensees recognise that the higher quality and profitability of our estate, together with the
essential fairness of the package that we offer, gives them real opportunities to be successful. This is once again
supported by improvements in key performance indicators:
n During the year we received more than 5,000 enquiries from licensees looking to take a pub with ETI,
with more than 30% of these enquiries converting to formal applications.
n We have 995 fully funded, fully screened licensees in our applicant database.
n There have been 820 lease assignments during the year, at an average premium of £68,000 (£85,000
including licensee fixtures and fittings).
n Rent concessions at 30 September 2006 remained consistent at less than 0.4% of the rent-roll.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 5
* Average profit per pub for 2006 within each band.
£0–£15k £15–£30k £30–£45k £45–£60k £60–£75k >£75k
(£—)* (£26k)* (£37k)* (£51k)* (£66k)* (£92k)*
Licensee Profitability
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10% 
5%
0%
1
0
26
19
38
40
22
25
8
10
5
6
n 2005 n 2006
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 5 n 1,317 rent reviews were completed during the year and these resulted in an average rental increase of
2.1% per annum. Just two rent reviews went to arbitration. 
n Adjusted for changes to licensee trading terms where appropriate, average rental income per pub
increased by 2.6%, broadly in line with inflation.
n Bad debt costs once again reduced and remain around 0.1% of turnover.
We do not expect the coming year to be materially easier for the on-trade and it is clear that poorer quality pubs
will struggle, particularly if they are unable to create opportunities from the forthcoming ban on smoking.
Nevertheless, we are confident that our constant pursuit of quality, and the related improvements in potential
licensee profitability, will once again ensure that the majority of our pubs continue to gain market share and to
prosper.
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Cash inflow
Free cash inflow during the year amounted to £107 million, based on operating cash inflow and after deduction
of mandatory payments in respect of interest and tax and discretionary payments in respect of capital
expenditure and dividends. 
In addition, net receipts from the purchase and sale of pubs in the year amounted to £282 million, which
included cash receipts of £316 million in respect of the sale of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns.
Debt facilities
In May, the Group agreed a refinancing of its syndicated debt facilities at attractive rates, increasing these
facilities from £490 million to £1 billion. At the end of the financial year £575 million was available for
drawdown. The Group has a flexible financial structure comprising these syndicated debt facilities, a portfolio of
corporate bonds and the Unique securitisation.
At 30 September 2006 underlying net debt was £3,166 million, similar to the level of £3,121 million at the start
of the year. Underlying net debt represents amounts repayable to banks and other lenders net of cash retained in
the business.
Financial leverage
The Board’s policy is to maintain efficient leverage of the balance sheet in the context of the level of profit
generated and the valuation of the pub estate.
The two key metrics used to measure financial leverage are interest cover based on EBITDA and the ratio of debt
to EBITDA. Based on the current financing structure, the Board considers optimal leverage ratios for the Group as
a whole to be around 2.2 times interest cover and approximately 6.6 times debt to EBITDA. At the end of the
financial year interest cover was 2.4 times and underlying net debt to EBITDA was 5.8 times. There is therefore
scope to increase leverage, providing significant headroom for continuing the share buy-back programme or for
acquisitions should the opportunity arise.
Balance sheet
The net assets of the Group at year-end were £1,676 million which compares with £1,573 million as at 
30 September 2005.
The book value of the pub estate at year-end was £5.4 billion, which included a cumulative revaluation surplus
of £845 million.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
6 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 6 Tax charge
The tax charge of £90 million represents 22% of profit before tax. The pre-exceptional tax charge of £95 million
equates to 30% of profit before tax and exceptional items. 
The £5 million exceptional tax credit comprises a credit of £34 million in relation to indexation on the tax base
cost of certain properties together with a tax charge of £29 million which primarily relates to the movement in
fair value of swaps and profit on sale of property, plant and equipment. 
Cash outflow in respect of tax during the year was £69 million and represents 22% of profit before tax and
exceptional items.
Exceptional items
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the
Income Statement. Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identified by virtue of their size
or nature to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. Exceptional items are
generally those which the Board does not consider to be part of the core operations of the Group. As a result, the
Group focuses on ‘pre-exceptional’ performance measures in order to compare underlying performance year on
year. 
The most significant exceptional items in the year are the profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment of
£67 million and the movement in fair value of interest rate swaps of £40 million. The profit on disposal is
highlighted as exceptional as it is not considered to be part of the core business of the Group. The profit of £67
million includes £51 million of profit arising on the batch disposal to Admiral Taverns. The movement in fair
value of interest rate swaps is classified as exceptional as it is a non-cash item which is driven by factors outside
of the control of the Group. The valuation of interest rate swaps in the year has led to a £40 million credit in
2006 compared to a £20 million charge in the previous year. This volatility is largely due to changes in forecast
interest rates which have increased this year, reducing the forecast cost of maintaining the swaps. 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
The new International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) apply for our 2005/6 financial year, with our Group
accounts presented accordingly. The restated financial results under IFRS for the year ended 30 September 2005
and the 6 months ended 31 March 2005 were published in May 2006.
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REITs)
We continue to monitor the potential for creating shareholder value that REITs may offer. Detailed legislation has
now been issued, albeit subject to further guidance notes and the ability of government to change the rules
without reference to further legislation. We therefore continue to review with our advisers the costs, benefits and
risks of structuring the Group to take advantage of this potentially favourable tax regime and the potential
increase in long-term shareholder value that would result from any change.
INDUSTRY ISSUES
Licensing reform
These results reflect almost a full year of trading under the new, more flexible licensing regime introduced in
November 2005. Despite some early problems caused primarily by lack of clarity in the detail of the legislation,
the system has now settled down and can be seen as broadly positive. Although the additional trading hours
have had only a minimal effect on pub profitability, the increased flexibility in opening hours has benefited the
consumer and helped to reduce alcohol related disorder. We share the government’s determination to tackle
irresponsible drinking and continue to work hard with our colleagues in the on-trade to tackle under-age
drinking and irresponsible promotions.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 7
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 7 Ban on smoking in pubs
Our experiences in Scotland, where the ban on smoking was introduced in March this year, confirmed that good
quality pubs continued to perform well, particularly where licensees had prepared for the ban, taking advantage
of available outside areas and developing their pub to reflect the changed circumstances. 
The smoking ban will become effective in Wales and in England in April and July 2007 respectively and we are
confident that our licensees are in a position to make the most of this evolution in pub going.
CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
This has been another exciting year for ETI, working alongside our licensees to grow market share and
profitability. The team has once again delivered substantial growth in earnings and dividends and we have made
excellent progress with our ongoing share buy-back programme. The new financial year has started well and we
look forward to our pubs continuing to perform ahead of the market and to the team delivering further solid
growth in shareholder value.
Ted Tuppen
Chief Executive
21 November 2006 
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
8 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006
1
12997ENTERPRI  11/12/06  4:23 pm  Page 8
