 RESULTS
The year to 30 September 2007 has once again seen investment in enhancing the quality of the Enterprise Inns
(ETI) estate and increasing profitability for our licensees and shareholders alike. On a like-for-like basis, which
excludes the impact of batch disposals, pro-forma EBITDA increased by 3.7% to £526 million. Profit before tax
and exceptional items of £301 million resulted in adjusted earnings per share of 39.6p, an increase of 15.8% over
the prior year.
STRATEGY
ETI remains focused on the two key pillars of its business strategy: to be the leading specialist operator of leased
and tenanted pubs in the UK and to deliver long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Our licensees have had a tough year. After a reasonable Christmas and New Year, the summer brought with it the
challenges of the ban on smoking, miserable weather and extensive flooding and, latterly, a general deterioration
in consumer confidence as a number of adverse economic factors created uncertainty in the minds of many
consumers.
Through these testing times, the strength of the leased and tenanted partnership has continued to deliver steady
results. We have worked closely with our licensees to create effective smoking solutions, sometimes through
investment and always with encouragement, advice and support. The majority of our estate is now well
positioned to manage the risks and opportunities that the ban has created, although we envisage that the ban
will lead to a number of pub closures across the industry, particularly amongst lower quality, wet-led outlets. The
poor summer weather was a disappointment for licensees, particularly those who invested heavily in gardens and
outside spaces. The summer floods resulted in the temporary closure of 207 pubs, some for several months, and
it is a tribute to our licensees and to our team that they “rolled up their sleeves” and got on with sorting out and
reopening their pubs. Consumer confidence appears to have been adversely affected by increases in taxation,
interest rates, utility bills, food and fuel prices together with the uncertainties surrounding global financial
markets. It is difficult to tell how this will impact on consumer behaviour over the next year, although caution
would seem to be the watchword.
The resilience of our operating model has delivered good trading results in this testing year, with shareholder
returns further enhanced by our commitment to returning cash to shareholders through our ongoing share buy-
back programme, which saw ETI purchase for cancellation some 102.9 million shares during the year,
representing 17% of the shares in issue (excluding treasury shares) at the beginning of the year.
TEAM
There have been a number of structural and personnel changes during the year, providing ever-improving
services to our licensees and strengthening the team at every level to ensure that we are well positioned to
meet the challenges of the business.
Our Associate Regional Manager programme has been particularly important, identifying and developing top
quality candidates through a six month full-time training programme to take on the key role of regional manager
in the ETI estate. During the year, this award-winning programme has successfully trained and promoted eight
candidates who are adding a strong new dimension to our field based teams.
Commitment, ownership and reward are vital ingredients in the motivation and retention of key staff and we are
delighted that all senior managers and 91% of all employees with over two years’ service at ETI have some form
of interest in ownership of the business, through direct share ownership, share options, Share Incentive Plans
and Save As You Earn schemes. During the year, our Share Incentive Plan won two awards, one for the Best New
Share plan for a FTSE 100 Company, another for Best Communication Programme for a Company with up to
1,000 employees.
ESTATE
The quality, value and profitability of the ETI estate have continued to improve during the year. Investment of
£75 million (2006: £54 million), alongside a similar amount from our licensees, saw developments at almost
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 3
14414 06/12/2007 Proof 6
14414ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  13/12/07  11:37  Page 3 1,600 pubs, either through major schemes or minor refurbishments. Whilst much of this investment was initiated
through business reviews addressing the challenges of the smoking ban, the end results reflect real
improvements in the overall quality and profitability of the chosen pubs, whether through the creation of food
offerings, accommodation or simply upgrading existing facilities for the benefit of customers.
In September 2006, we completed the sale of 769 pubs to Admiral Taverns, pubs which we had identified as not
fitting our quality and profitability profile for the future. This was followed on 5 December 2006 by the sale of
our entire Scottish estate of 137 pubs to Retail and Licensed Properties Limited for a consideration of £115
million which generated a profit over book value of £13 million. In addition, we sold 17 pubs and some surplus
land for £13 million, generating a further profit of £9 million.
Our attention remained focused on the market for individual acquisitions, where our estates team have found a
steady supply of top quality pubs, allowing ETI to purchase 108 great pubs during the year for a total
consideration of £91 million. In the absence of value enhancing corporate transactions, we continue to view
these individual acquisitions, generally at EBITDA multiples of around 10 times, as the best route to creating
value for shareholders.
Core growth, complemented by our continuing policy of investment and churn, has seen EBITDA per pub
increase to £68,300 for the 7,763 pubs which we owned at 30 September 2007. The book value of the pub
estate at the year end, valued on an individual pub by pub basis, increased to £5.7 billion, equivalent to an
average value of £736,000 per pub.
As in previous years, our annual estates review is designed to form a view of the quality and sustainability of
every pub in the estate. The past two years have seen the number of pubs with outside trading areas increase
from 83% to 91%, pubs serving food increase from 81% to 88% and it is encouraging to see that the team
continue to rank more than two-thirds of our pubs as ‘very good’ or ‘excellent’. The review did, however, identify
that a number of our pubs have or may become unviable as a result of changing market conditions, notably the
smoking ban. Against this background we have identified, and put on the market for sale, 96 pubs. We expect to
sell these pubs unlicensed, for alternative use, and are confident that we will achieve sale proceeds in excess of
book value.
LICENSEES
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
4 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007
14414 06/12/2007 Proof 6 144
<£15k £15k–£30k £30k–£45k £45k–£60k £60k–£75k >£75k
Licensee Profitability
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
0 0
19
17
40
39
25
26
10
11
6
7
 2006  2007
14414ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  13/12/07  11:37  Page 4 As the quality of our estate improves, so do the opportunities for licensees to build and sustain a profitable
business. As ETI seeks to attract the best licensees, it remains a priority to ensure that the package that we offer
is fair, that rents are not excessive and that real help is offered, where required, to make the most of the
business opportunities that exist in any particular market.
Based upon our annual review of estate profitability, we estimate that the average level of licensee profitability
in the 7,763 pubs that we owned at 30 September 2007 has increased by around 4% to £47,000. This increase
reflects to some extent the benefit of churn in the estate, but we nevertheless estimate that on a like-for-like
basis licensee profitability, despite continuing cost and margin pressures, has increased by 2.6%, broadly in line
with inflation.
The ETI estate continues to be attractive to licensees, who recognise the quality of the pubs in our portfolio and
the essential fairness of our package. This is once again supported by key performance indicators:
 During the year, some 85,000 visitors used our Internet pub search facility, resulting in more than 1,500
formal applications, of which 80% were received online.
 With 84% of the estate let on long-term, assignable leases, most changes take the form of lease
assignments. During the year there have been 790 assignments, at an average premium of £69,000
(£86,000 including fixtures and fittings).
 Rent concessions at 30 September 2007 increased marginally to £1.5 million, around 0.5% of rent roll.
 1,457 rent reviews were completed during the year, with an average rental increase of 2.7% per annum.
Just three rent reviews went to arbitration, two of which were found in favour of ETI.
 Overdue balances are at similar levels to last year and bad debt costs remain around 0.1% of turnover.
Market conditions will continue to test our licensees and we believe that many poorer quality pubs across the
industry are likely to close. Nevertheless, given the quality and profitability of the ETI estate, we are confident
that our pubs and licensees will continue to meet the challenges, gain market share and prosper.
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Cash flow
Free cash inflow during the year amounted to £75 million, based on operating cash inflow and after deduction of
mandatory payments in respect of interest and tax and discretionary payments in respect of capital expenditure
and dividends.
Debt facilities
The Group has a flexible financing structure including a syndicated bank debt facility of £1 billion, corporate
bonds and securitised bonds. At 30 September 2007 underlying net debt was £3,716 million compared to £3,166
million at the start of the year. Underlying net debt represents amounts owed to banks and other lenders net of
cash retained in the business. During the year we repaid £81 million of securitised bonds from the proceeds of
the sale of pubs and drew down the remaining balance of our syndicated bank facility.
Financial leverage
The two key metrics the Group uses to measure financial leverage are interest cover based on EBITDA and the
ratio of underlying net debt to EBITDA. At 30 September 2007, interest cover was 2.4 times and underlying net
debt to EBITDA was 7 times.
We believe that there is scope to increase the leverage in the Group to around eight times underlying net debt
to EBITDA in a revised financing structure and the proposed refinancing of the Unique securitisation next year
will aim to bring the Group closer to this level.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 5
14414 06/12/2007 Proof 6
14414ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  13/12/07  11:37  Page 5 Balance Sheet
The book value of the pub estate is £5.7 billion which includes a revaluation increase in the year of £312 million.
The net assets of the Group at year end were £1,483 million which compares to £1,602 million as at
30 September 2006. Notwithstanding profit generation and an increase in the value of our pubs, the reduction
in net assets arises as a result of the share buy-back programme.
Tax charge
The pre-exceptional tax charge of £85 million represents 28% of profit before tax and exceptional items. The
total tax charge of £46 million is 14% of profit before tax.
The exceptional tax credit of £39 million comprises two significant deferred tax credits partially off-set by an
exceptional deferred tax charge. The Finance Act 2007 reduced the rate of UK corporation tax to 28% with effect
from April 2008. A one-off credit of £23 million arises as a result of a reduction in deferred tax balances due to
this change. A second credit of £28 million arises in relation to indexation on the tax base cost of certain
properties. A deferred tax charge of £12 million has been recognised in relation to the movement in fair value of
interest rate swaps and profit on sale of property.
Cash outflow in respect of tax for the year was £71 million, equivalent to 24% of profit before tax and
exceptional items.
Exceptional items
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the
Income Statement. Exceptional items are those which are separately identified by virtue of their size or nature to
allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. As a result, the Group focuses on ‘pre-
exceptional’ performance measures in order to compare underlying performance year on year.
The most significant exceptional items in the year are profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment of £22
million and movements relating to the fair value of financial instruments of £16 million. As discussed above,
there is also a significant exceptional tax credit in the year of £39 million.
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REITs)
The Group is involved in ongoing discussions with HMRC regarding a potential conversion to REIT status. HMRC
has expressed the view that the Group, as currently structured, does not meet the qualifying criteria for
admission as a REIT. We are, however, currently exploring with HMRC whether an internal restructuring of the
Group’s activities, currently being considered by the Board and designed to enhance shareholder returns and
optimise the benefits of our proposed refinancing, would result in the Group becoming eligible for admission to
the REIT regime. HMRC is considering various aspects of this proposed restructuring and we will update
shareholders when there are significant developments to report.
INDUSTRY ISSUES
Ban on smoking in pubs
There is now a total ban on smoking in pubs throughout the UK and there has been an almost universal level of
acceptance amongst pub-goers. Many people who avoided pubs because of the smoky atmosphere are now
potential customers and forward-looking licensees are capitalising on this opportunity. Often, these opportunities
arise through the provision of good quality food, and we estimate that food revenues across the ETI estate have
risen by 13% in the past year, now representing at least 20% of average pub turnover. With standards of pub food
constantly improving, there is a risk that the market place for “value for money” food may become overcrowded
so our advice to licensees tends towards “do it really well or not at all”, focusing above all on the key strengths
of each individual pub, and always trying to make sure that their pub is the best in each locality. The coming
year will be difficult for some pubs and we remain cautious about the next six to nine months. However, we are
confident of a positive outcome as the smoking ban becomes an accepted part of pub-going and licensees and
customers alike enjoy the benefits of the more pleasant, healthier smoke-free regime.
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
6 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007
14414 06/12/2007 Proof 6 144
14414ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  13/12/07  11:37  Page 6 Responsible drinking
The pub industry, through its trade bodies working with Government and the police, has made real progress over
the past couple of years tackling the issues of under age drinking and irresponsible promotions. Proof of Age
cards are now a regular and accepted part of pub-going for under 21s, with the result that the number of under-
age drinkers being served in pubs has been significantly reduced. Furthermore, and without the need for
legislation, industry self regulation has resulted in a marked reduction in irresponsible promotions that
encourage excessive drinking, such as happy hours or “two for one” offers.
The pub is a highly regulated, professionally run environment, which should, and generally does, live up to its
reputation as “the home of responsible drinking”. Unfortunately, drink (and drug) fuelled anti social behaviour
remains a serious problem to be tackled at all levels in society. In this regard, one must question the pricing
policies of the major supermarkets and some other off trade outlets which sell alcohol, which is generally
consumed in an unregulated environment, at very low prices. Not only do they, on occasion, sell alcohol at
prices below cost but they have cheap alcohol at the heart of promotions policies, particularly in the run up to
Christmas. When it comes to the important issue of tackling irresponsible drinking, it is up to all stakeholders to
face up to their share of responsibility.
CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
In a challenging year for ETI and our licensees, the team has worked successfully to improve the quality of the
pub estate, grow licensee profitability and deliver substantial growth in earnings and dividends. The new
financial year has started well, but we remain cautious about consumer confidence and the impact through the
coming winter of the smoking ban. In spite of these uncertain conditions, we believe that the quality of our pub
estate will deliver performance ahead of the market and that the team will deliver further solid growth in
shareholder value.
Ted Tuppen
Chief Executive
19 November 2007
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 7
14414 06/12/2007 Proof 6
14414ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  13/12/07  11:37  Page 7
