 15809 04/12/2008 Proof 6
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 3
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
RESULTS
This has been a very difficult year for the pub industry. In addition to the first full year impact of the ban on
smoking in public places, our licensees have had to endure a serious deterioration in consumer spending and
confidence brought about through rising costs and taxes, the virtual collapse of the banking system and a UK
economy sliding further into recession.
As a result, the year to 30 September 2008 has presented many challenges to the Enterprise team and our
licensees. EBITDA decreased by 3% to £512 million and profit before tax and exceptional items fell to £263
million, giving adjusted earnings per share of 39.2 pence, a decrease of 1% over the prior year.
Nevertheless, the majority of our pubs continue to trade successfully, albeit with licensees having to work much
smarter and harder simply to stand still in terms of profitability. Whilst average EBITDA per pub for the whole
estate decreased by 3% to £66,000 during the year, those pubs which are let on long-term substantive lease or
tenancy agreements, representing some 82% of our estate, actually grew EBITDA by 2% to an average of
£73,000.
Free cash flow remained strong at £62 million for the year, based upon operating cash inflow of £536 million
after deduction of mandatory payments in respect of net interest and taxation (£323 million) and discretionary
payments in respect of capital expenditure and dividends (£151 million).
At the interim stage, we increased the dividend by 12% to 5.8 pence per share and the Board is recommending
an unchanged final dividend of 10.4 pence, giving a total for the year of 16.2 pence per share, an increase of
3.8% over the prior year. Dividend cover based on adjusted earnings is 2.4 times. The final dividend will be
payable on 26 January 2009 to shareholders on the register on 5 January 2009.
TEAM
The Enterprise team has worked with great commitment to provide a top quality service to our licensees in these
difficult times, with the entire organisation structured in such a way as to allow our field-based operations and
property teams to maximise the time spent with licensees.
Effective training remains a key focus and we are delighted that our award-winning Associate Regional Manager
programme continues to attract top quality candidates to the business. Furthermore, we have this year
introduced a key skills certification programme, to ensure that everyone maintains the highest standards of
technical ability and professionalism in all dealings with our licensees. We are proud that six of the team
reached the finals of the annual ALMR operations manager awards with Joe Smith, our Regional Manager for
North Tyneside, winning the overall title.
LICENSEES
Through these testing times, the fairness and resilience of the leased and tenanted partnership has seen
Enterprise providing unprecedented support to licensees. During the year, rent concessions and special discount
schemes costing more than £9 million were provided to a total of 1,453 licensees. Such schemes are designed
to help a licensee trade out of difficulty and we are heartened by the enthusiastic response of licensees and the
level of success achieved. At 30 September some 855 licensees were receiving these special concessions, a
level which has now reduced as some greater stability is achieved in the estate.
Based upon our annual review of the pub estate, we estimate that the average level of potential licensee
profitability has fallen by around 4% to £45,000. Whilst the growth in food revenues has to some extent offset
declining beer sales, overhead costs have increased. There are of course wide variations in performance,
depending upon the retail profile of each outlet. Not surprisingly, smaller, wet-led outlets have suffered most,
with some becoming unviable in the face of the smoking ban and aggressive pricing of alcohol in the off trade.
15809ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  4/12/08  16:07  Page 3 158 15809 04/12/2008 Proof 6
4 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
The key performance indicators of licensee financial health have worsened during this period of difficult trading
but most remain robust despite the challenging conditions:
 During the year, there was a small increase in the number of formal applications to take a pub with
Enterprise, with the number relatively stable at around 130 per month. There are currently 577 fully
funded applicants on our database.
 With 82% of the estate let on substantive leases and tenancies, many licensee changes take the form of
lease assignments. There have been fewer assignments during the year, down from 790 in 2007 to 483
in 2008, with the average premium, excluding fixtures and fittings, down 9% to an average of £63,000
(£79,000 including tenants’ fixtures and fittings).
 Rent concessions for the year ended 30 September 2008 amounted to £2.7 million. In addition, the cost
of special discount schemes granted during the year amounted to £6.4 million. At 30 September 2008
the combined cost of rent concessions and special discount schemes was running at a monthly rate of
£1.3 million.
 915 rent reviews were completed during the year, with an average rental increase of 2.2% per annum.
 Overdue balances have increased during the year but still stand at less than 1% of turnover. Bad debt
costs have similarly increased but remain low at 0.1% of turnover.
Whilst the majority of licensees comply with the terms of their agreements and work closely with the Enterprise
team to develop trade and improve profitability, there are some who fail to meet agreed payment terms or who
blatantly and consistently breach their obligations under the tie. We have taken a straightforward stance in these
circumstances, preferring to terminate agreements and remove the offending licensees. This has led to an
increase in the number of closed and holding over pubs, the latter where the licensee remains in occupation
without paying rent or buying beer pending settlement or eviction. The number of closed and holding over pubs
has reduced since the year end and we expect this trend to continue.
ESTATE
During the year, Enterprise invested £68 million into the estate, working alongside licensees to improve facilities
in more than 1,587 pubs. Having enjoyed two years of increased investment to deal with issues arising from the
ban on smoking, we now expect to return to a normal level of capital investment, at around £45 million per year.
The estates team purchased 58 top quality pubs at an average cost of £828,000 during the year. We also
disposed of 58 underperforming and high alternative use value outlets, plus various other plots of land, achieving
sale proceeds of £30 million and a profit above book value of £2 million. During the coming year, the team will
focus on disposing of underperforming outlets, predominantly for alternative use. Although the market is
subdued as a result of the lack of credit available to developers, we remain confident that the disposal
programme will deliver a significant amount of cash and a profit above book value. We have already this year
exchanged or completed on sales amounting to £13 million and have a further £23 million of transactions
agreed and in the hands of solicitors.
The annual valuation of the estate, carried out on a basis consistent with previous years, resulted in a 1%
revaluation uplift to £5.9 billion, equivalent to an average value of £755,000 per pub. The estate is valued on a
pub by pub basis and, as one would expect with an estate of our size and variety, there are significant variations
underlying the increase in valuation. Overall, some 4,900 pubs increased in value, 2,500 fell in value and the
balance remained the same.
15809ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  4/12/08  16:07  Page 4 15809 04/12/2008 Proof 6
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 5
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
GROUP FINANCING
Debt facilities
The Group has a flexible financing structure in place, including bank facilities, corporate bonds and securitised
bonds. At 30 September 2008, underlying net debt was £3,704 million compared to £3,716 million at the start
of the year. At the year end the Group’s borrowings were 89% fixed for an average period of 10 years at an
average interest rate of 6.5%.
The five year bank facility of £1 billion expires in May 2011 with no amortisation schedule. A programme has
been introduced to reduce the level of borrowings under this facility prior to commencing refinancing
discussions with the banks.
The corporate bonds mature between 2014 and 2031 and the securitised bonds fully amortise by 2032, with the
next mandatory repayment of £2 million due in June 2010.
Liquidity and Financial Covenants
At the year end, committed bank facilities of £69 million were undrawn and the bank facility agreement permits
the arrangement of up to a further £100 million of additional borrowings. A liquidity facility of £190 million is in
place in respect of the securitised bonds.
All debt facilities have financial covenants which are tested on a periodic basis. The covenant tests confirmed
that appropriate headroom was maintained throughout the year. Financial forecasts are prepared on a regular
basis and reviewed by the Board to ensure ongoing compliance with all covenants.
TAX CHARGE
The pre-exceptional tax charge of 26% is lower than was expected to apply at the interim stage as most
enquiries relating to 2004 and 2005 have now been closed and no enquiries have been received in respect of
2006. It is expected that the corporation tax rate of 28% will apply in 2009.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the
Income Statement. Exceptional items are those which are specifically identified by virtue of their size or nature
to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. As a result, the Group focuses on ‘pre-
exceptional’ performance measures in order to compare underlying performance year on year.
The most significant exceptional item in the year is the movement arising from the revaluation of the pub estate
of £53 million. This is the charge taken to the Income Statement in respect of pubs that have been revalued
below historic cost. The exceptional tax credit of £48 million includes a £33 million credit in relation to
indexation on the tax base cost of certain properties.
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REITs)
The Board remains attracted to the principle and benefits of conversion to a REIT and we have made excellent
progress agreeing all technical and valuation methodology issues with HMRC.
However, in light of the current turmoil in the financial markets, the Board does not consider it appropriate to
progress matters further at this time. We are therefore adopting a cautious approach to the costs and processes
of conversion, continuing to work with our advisers to explore the options and develop a total solution which is
demonstrably in the best long-term interests of all stakeholders. We are not working to a particular timetable
and will make further announcements as and when appropriate.
15809ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  4/12/08  16:07  Page 5 15809 04/12/2008 Proof 6
6 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
(Incorporating the Business Review)
INDUSTRY ISSUES
Responsible drinking
For the vast majority of pub-goers in the UK, the pub is “the home of responsible drinking”, providing a safe and
professionally supervised environment for responsible adults to enjoy food, drink and sociable good company. It
is a tragedy that such an important part of the fabric of British life is under attack from a Government too often
influenced by exaggerated media coverage and the voices of unrepresentative minorities. Whilst doing nothing
to curb the off trade sale of cut price alcohol into an unsupervised environment, ministers seek to appease the
lobbyists with talk of ever greater regulation and control. There will of course always be a few rogue operators
who encourage irresponsible behaviour but it is reassuring to learn that the Association of Chief Police Officers
considers that the police have sufficient powers in the existing Licensing Act to regulate pubs, their spokesman
on licensing saying “I’m comfortable with the amount of legislation that we have at the moment”. The industry
does not need more regulation, it needs robust and consistent enforcement of the laws that already exist.
Business and Enterprise Committee (BEC) inquiry
The forthcoming review by the BEC into how the pub companies have responded to the recommendations of the
2004 Trade and Industry Select Committee (TISC) will provide Enterprise with an opportunity to demonstrate how
it has led the way in ensuring clarity, transparency and fairness in all its dealings with licensees. With small
businesses under pressure and with more than 30 pubs per week reported to be closing permanently, this is a
time when the support that can be offered by pub companies under the leased and tenanted model provides
welcome relief for many struggling licensees. It should come as no surprise that the rate of pub closures is
materially higher in the free trade, where the business partner is most likely a bank manager with a remit to
control or reduce credit limits, rather than a Regional Manager whose first priority is to support a deserving
licensee.
CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
In very difficult circumstances, the Enterprise team has worked tirelessly to deliver solid results. The quality of
the estate has improved as a result of successful investment. The vast majority of licensees remain profitable
and comply with the terms of their leases and tenancies. Financially, we enjoy strong cash flows and secure
long-term debt with no refinancing requirement until 2011, in preparation for which we will take opportunities
to reduce debt levels.
The coming year will present further challenges and we must expect to offer support through rent concessions
and special discounts to licensees who find themselves in difficulty. Equally, we must anticipate that consumer
discretionary spending will remain under pressure and beer sales will go on declining as the UK moves further
into recession. However, if falling interest rates and lower inflation begin to engender a sense of greater
confidence amongst consumers, Enterprise will be well placed to return to a position of delivering solid growth
in shareholder value.
Ted Tuppen
Chief Executive
17 November 2008
158
15809ENTERPRI:12997ENTERPRI  4/12/08  16:07  Page 6
