     Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009   3
17092 03/12/2009 Proof 8
Chief Executive’s Review 
(Incorporating the Business Review)
RESULTS
This has been another very testing year for the pub industry, with licensees having to endure weak consumer 
spending alongside rising overhead costs, duty increases ahead of inflation and aggressive pricing from 
supermarkets.
This has presented many challenges for the ETI business as the volume of beer sold in pubs has continued to 
decline and it has been necessary to provide direct financial assistance to help our licensees survive these 
difficult times. As a result, EBITDA for the year to 30 September 2009 decreased by 13% to £445 million and profit 
before tax and exceptional items fell to £208 million, giving adjusted earnings per share of 30.7 pence, a decrease 
of 22% over the prior year.
Adjusted to take account of pub disposals, the decline in average net income per pub has continued at around 8%, 
with EBITDA per pub down by 11%, in line with the first half of the year. It is, however, encouraging that the 83% 
of our pubs let on substantive agreements continued to perform well in current market conditions, with average 
net income per pub down by just 3% for the year. The annual revaluation of the pub estate resulted in a 7% fall in 
value to £5.4 billion.
Cash generation, from trading and the disposal of non-core pubs, has been strong and underlying Group net debt 
has been reduced by £142 million.
TRADING
Trading conditions across the economy have been challenging for all consumer facing businesses. Consumers are 
cautious with their discretionary spending whilst overhead cost inflation for the service sector has remained high, 
driven by increases in minimum wage, utility costs and business rates. Pubs in general, and good quality pubs in 
particular, have proved remarkably resilient, although we have seen significant regional variations in performance, 
with average net income per pub down by 11% in the North, 9% in the Midlands and 5% in the South, including 
just 3% in London. Whilst the 83% of our pubs on substantive agreements have delivered £448 million of net 
income, down just 3% from last year at an average of £73,000 per pub, the remaining 17% have struggled with 
periods of closure, sub-optimal temporary letting and general underperformance which have together resulted in 
a 39% fall to an average of £37,000 per pub.
Against this background, we have continued to provide unprecedented levels of support to licensees. In addition 
to our Price Freeze package, which held back key brand price increases for six months and cost over £3 million, 
we provided non-contractual rent concessions and special discounts costing £18 million during the year to a total 
of 1,900 licensees under our Business Recovery Scheme (BRS). It is encouraging that in the majority of cases this 
financial assistance, costing an average of £9,500 per pub, was sufficient to put the licensee back onto a secure 
footing and move the business forward. As we accelerate the disposal of poorer quality pubs and as top quality 
licensees develop their businesses to succeed in these recessionary times, the requirement for direct financial 
support is beginning to recede.
The introduction of Temporary Management Agreements (TMAs) during the year has been partially successful, 
allowing us to take control of viable pubs where the operator has failed and move them quickly through a 
refurbishment and relaunch programme. However, this success has come at a high cost and, having seen a peak of 
218 pubs operating as TMAs, it is encouraging to see that the reletting programme has now gathered momentum, 
with just 183 pubs operating under the TMA scheme at 30 September, a number which we expect to reduce 
significantly during the coming year.
Whilst offering assistance to good quality licensees who are prepared to work with us and tackle the difficult trading 
environment in partnership, we have also faced substantial increases in the cost of business failures, incurring costs 
estimated at some £25 million during the year, through non-payment of rent, lost sales, closure costs and legal fees. 
Again, however, it is encouraging to see that the rate of business failures is beginning to abate.
17092ENTERPRI.indd   3 17092ENTERPRI.indd   3 03/12/2009   17:16 03/12/2009   17:16  4   Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009
17092 03/12/2009 Proof 8
Chief Executive’s Review 
(Incorporating the Business Review)
RETAILERS IN PARTNERSHIP
It is easy to dwell on the difficulties of trading in the current environment and to overlook the resilient nature of the 
ETI business, the great commitment of the ETI team and the tremendous performance of the majority of our licensees.
During the past year, the team has successfully disposed of a large number of non-core pubs, reduced by almost 
20% to 769 the number of pubs let on temporary tenancy agreements and also reduced the number of closed but 
viable pubs from over 200 to just 90.
There has been a small increase in the percentage of pubs let on substantive agreements and these pubs 
continue to deliver average net income just 3% down on last year. With such a large number of our licensees 
managing their businesses successfully though this recession, it is no surprise that overdue balances at 0.8% of 
turnover are unchanged from last year and that 75% of all licensees, broadly the same as last year, pay their rent 
and beer supply balances by direct debit. The level of bad debts incurred has increased during the year but is still 
low at just 0.4% of turnover. During the past year, we have received 1,529 formal applications to take pubs with 
us (2008 — 1,566) and have successfully let 860 pubs (2008 — 410 pubs). This can be taken as a tribute to the 
quality of our pub estate and the inherent fairness, flexibility and attractiveness of a business model which not 
only offers a low cost of entry to entrepreneurs wishing to run their own pub business but also provides ongoing 
support and shares the risks once the pub is up and running. 
Greatest credit must go to the vast majority of our licensees who face the daily challenges of running a pub, 
overcoming whatever obstacles are placed in front of them and developing businesses that are consistently 
attractive to customers.
Among the many awards won by ETI licensees during 2009 were: the Telegraph at Wallasey, voted Wirral CAMRA 
Pub of the Year; Ye Olde Rose & Crown and the Nags Head, Walthamstow, joint runners-up in the CAMRA Best 
Real Ale Award, East London & City; the Bell & Cross, Clent voted UK Pub of the Year in the Good Pub Guide; the 
White Horse, Ramsden Heath voted Best Pub in East Anglia by the Morning Advertiser; and the Harwood Arms, 
Fulham voted Best New Gastropub in the 2010 Time Out Eating and Drinking Awards.
PUB ESTATE
The annual revaluation of the pub estate, completed as at 30 September 2009 and carried out on a basis 
consistent with previous years, resulted in a reduction in value of 7% to £5.4 billion, equivalent to an average 
value of £726,000 per pub. 
During the year, we invested £52 million into the pub estate, working alongside licensees to improve 
facilities in more than 1,500 pubs. There were just four acquisitions at the beginning of the year, completing 
those transactions where contracts had already been exchanged. The main focus of the estates team was to 
concentrate on disposing of underperforming and non-core pubs, achieving gross sale proceeds of £113 million. 
Taking account of all costs of disposal, net proceeds of £106 million were slightly ahead of book value. During 
the year to 30 September 2008, net income from these 368 pubs amounted to £9 million. In normal trading 
times, a relatively small number of pubs become unviable and would be sold each year. The current economic 
environment has accelerated the demise of unviable pubs and we currently expect to continue this disposal 
programme at a similar or higher level throughout the coming year, reducing the total number of pubs in our 
estate and improving average quality and profitability.
We own the freehold of 98% of our pubs, have 181 short leasehold properties and pay an annual leasehold rent 
of just £2.6 million. We have a number of freehold pubs, predominantly in central London, which we believe 
present attractive investment opportunities for long-term property investors. With a view to testing this market, 
we placed six pubs into an auction in October 2009, the results of which were very encouraging with rental yields, 
based upon 35-year, non-index linked leases back to ETI, averaging just over 6%. We believe that this market may 
provide an opportunity to raise additional funds in advance of our refinancing at attractive long-term rates, whilst 
retaining operational management and an ongoing income stream from the pubs concerned. A further fourteen 
pubs will be placed into auctions during December 2009 and, if this too proves successful, we shall continue this 
programme throughout the coming year.
17092ENTERPRI.indd   4 17092ENTERPRI.indd   4 03/12/2009   17:16 03/12/2009   17:16     Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009   5
17092 03/12/2009 Proof 8
GROUP FINANCING
Debt facilities
ETI has a flexible financing structure comprising securitised bonds, corporate bonds and bank debt. At 
30 September 2009, underlying net debt was £3,562 million compared to £3,704 million at the beginning of 
the financial year. 
The £1.6 billion securitised bonds amortise over 22 years and attract a fixed rate of interest of approximately 
6.5% until final maturity. The Group is currently £64 million ahead of the amortisation schedule. The £1.2 billion 
corporate bonds are non-amortising and attract a fixed rate of interest of 6.5%, with the next scheduled maturities 
being £60 million in February 2014 and £600 million in March 2018. The bank facility of £1 billion currently pays 
interest at 80 basis points over LIBOR and is due for renewal in May 2011.
The bank facility is covered by two interest rate swaps inherited with the acquisition of The Laurel Pub Company 
in 2002. These swaps limit the benefit to the Group of the current low interest rate environment but expire 
relatively shortly. The first swap, £350 million at 4.89%, expires on 30 September 2011 and the second swap, 
£275 million at 6.66%, expires on 1 June 2012.
A programme to reduce the level of borrowings under the bank facility has been successfully implemented during 
the year. In October 2009, we held detailed discussions with the 13 members of our banking group who represent 
98% in value of the outstanding facility. Based on these discussions and input from our advisers, the Board 
remains confident that adequate banking facilities will be available to the Group at the time of our refinancing.
Liquidity and financial covenants
At the year end, committed bank facilities of £198 million were undrawn and a liquidity facility of £190 million 
is in place in respect of the securitised bonds. During October 2009 the £100 million secured bank facility with 
HBOS plc was repaid as borrowings under this facility were no longer required and the facility was cancelled to 
save commitment fees.
All debt facilities have financial covenants which are tested on a periodic basis and covenant tests confirmed that 
sufficient headroom was maintained throughout the year. Financial forecasts are prepared on a regular basis and 
reviewed by the Board to ensure ongoing compliance with all covenants.
TAX CHARGE
The pre-exceptional tax charge of 26% is the same as prior year, slightly favourable to the estimated rate of 27% 
at the half year. It is expected that the statutory corporation tax rate of 28% will apply in 2010.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The Group has elected to classify certain items as exceptional and present them separately on the face of the 
Income Statement. Exceptional items are those which are specifically identified by virtue of their size or nature 
to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. As a result, the Group focuses on 
‘pre-exceptional’ performance measures in order to compare underlying performance year on year. The most 
significant exceptional item in the year is the movement in valuation of the pub estate and related assets of 
£151 million. 
INDUSTRY ISSUES
The pub in the community
For the vast majority of pub-goers in the UK, the pub remains at the heart of their community, the ‘home of 
responsible drinking’, providing a safe and professionally supervised environment where adults can enjoy 
food, drink and good company. This vital part of British culture is under greater threat than ever before and it 
is essential that Government and all elements of the pub industry work together to ensure that pubs not only 
survive but prosper.
Chief Executive’s Review 
(Incorporating the Business Review)
17092ENTERPRI.indd   5 17092ENTERPRI.indd   5 03/12/2009   17:16 03/12/2009   17:16  6   Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009
17092 03/12/2009 Proof 8
Chief Executive’s Review 
(Incorporating the Business Review)
Business and Enterprise Committee (BEC) inquiry
Following a report on pub companies issued by the BEC in May 2009, ETI wrote to the Secretary of State for 
Business, Innovation and Skills setting out firm commitments designed to address concerns expressed in the BEC 
report, in particular ensuring that new licensees are properly advised and fully appraised of all key facts when 
taking on a pub business. In addition, ETI has worked closely with the British Beer and Pub Association, the British 
Institute of Innkeeping and other industry bodies to develop an industry-wide code of practice. 
Great progress has been made, with firm commitments in place to ensure that potential licensees have proper 
access to the information required for them to develop a viable business plan and to have that business plan 
validated by an experienced industry professional. Importantly, there has been industry-wide acceptance of the 
Pub Independent Rent Review Scheme (PIRRS), the low-cost alternative to arbitration at the time of rent reviews.
CAMRA super-complaint to the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)
At the end of October 2009, the OFT published a report in response to a super-complaint made by the Campaign 
for Real Ale (CAMRA). The super-complaint reiterated many of the concerns raised by the BEC report and claimed 
that the existence of the tie, particularly as exercised by the large pub companies, foreclosed the market to 
smaller brewers, led to restricted choice and higher prices for consumers and made it difficult for tied pubs to 
compete on price with their competitors in free houses and managed pubs.
The OFT reached the conclusion, supported by independent evidence, that the CAMRA complaints were 
unfounded and that further investigation of competition issues within the beer and pub market is not warranted. 
CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
The ETI team has worked hard and delivered creditable results in very difficult circumstances, supporting good 
quality licensees with substantial financial assistance where appropriate, improving the overall quality of the 
pub estate through investment and the disposal of non-core pubs and significantly reducing the level of bank 
borrowing.
The coming year is expected to be equally challenging, with weak consumer confidence compounded by further 
increases in duty and taxes. Given the current economic climate and the planned reduction in the size of our pub 
estate, we are likely to see some further decline in trading profit in the short term. Nevertheless, we shall remain 
focused on stabilising performance in the estate, accelerating the disposal of pubs which do not fit the profile of 
our business moving forward whilst working alongside good quality licensees to provide support and investment 
to develop our best pubs. At the same time as steadily de-leveraging our business through the reduction in the 
level of bank debt, this strategy will ensure that the core of our estate is of a quality and profile to prosper as the 
pub market continues to evolve. We remain confident that, in the medium-term, the business will be in a good 
position to deliver positive returns for shareholders. 
G E Tuppen
16 November 2009
17092ENTERPRI.indd   6 17092ENTERPRI.indd   6 03/12/2009   17:16 03/12/2009   17:16
