 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:15 PM    Proof 6
Results
Profit before tax and exceptional items for the year was 
£121 million, compared to £137 million in the previous 
year. Our like-for-like net income for the year declined 
by 2.9% although trading performance improved in 
the final quarter with growth of 0.6% in like-for-like net 
income. This performance was against the background 
of a particularly difficult trading environment for many of 
our Publicans; a fragile economic climate coupled with 
inclement weather (the coldest spring for fifty years) and 
tough comparatives in the previous year. However, our 
commercial and operational teams successfully deployed 
a number of new initiatives for our Publicans to improve 
their retail offers to customers and we expect more of 
these in the coming years. 
I am pleased to report good progress on the Company’ s debt 
and balance sheet issues. The issuance of an unsecured 
convertible bond on 10 September 2013 generated  
£97 million of gross proceeds and has helped to reduce 
the bank debt, net of cash, to only £41 million. This leaves 
us with limited bank amortisation requirements for the 
future and will enable us to limit further asset disposals 
to a level required to fund our investment ambitions, at 
around £60 million per annum. With disposal proceeds 
matching capital investment, we would expect the 
Company’s future EBITDA performance to more closely 
track our like-for-like net income performance. 
Continued focus on cash generation has reduced total debt 
by a further £216 million, with total net debt at the year 
end now £2.5 billion. Cash generation from the business 
was supported during the year by proceeds of £150 million 
from the disposal of primarily underperforming pubs.
Dividend
The Board continues to believe it is not appropriate to 
resume the payment of dividends at this time. The current 
strategy of utilising available cash flow to reduce debt is 
the most effective way to achieve long-term transfer of 
value to our shareholders. 
Board of directors
We announced in November 2013 that Ted Tuppen will  
retire from the Board on 6 February 2014, after over 
20 years of service as Chief Executive. Ted founded 
Enterprise in 1991 and has throughout been a Chief 
Executive of unrivalled leadership, energy and charisma. 
His contribution to the Company’s success cannot 
be overestimated; in 2006 he was awarded a CBE 
for services to the hospitality industry and he has 
successfully shaped and steered the business from its 
inception, through both good times and, more recently, 
during the more challenging economic and recessionary 
climate. This year’s results allow Ted to retire leaving the 
business in good shape for the future and with huge 
thanks from the Board and our employees. We wish him 
well for the future.
We also announced the appointment of Simon 
Townsend as Chief Executive, to take effect at the time 
of Ted’s retirement at our AGM, 6 February 2014. Simon 
joined Enterprise in 1999 and has served the business 
successfully as Chief Operating Officer since 2006. The 
Board is confident that Simon is the right person to lead 
the Company into its next phase. 
We are also pleased to have welcomed Peter Baguley as 
a non-executive director. He was appointed on 31 January 
2013, replacing David Harding, who served the Board so 
well during his nine years tenure. Peter brings to the Board 
a particular property expertise and is already providing 
excellent advice and support to our property teams. 
David Maloney, a non-executive director since 2008, and 
currently Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeded 
David Harding as Senior Independent Director in January. 
Employees and Publicans
Once again, our engaged and hard-working colleagues 
and Publicans are critical to our success. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank them all for their fine efforts 
and resilience during the past year.
Outlook
After a difficult start, we ended the 2013 financial year 
with an improving trend in our trading performance. 
Current and foreseeable market conditions remain 
volatile and challenging, economic confidence is returning 
but consumer spending remains restrained, with cost 
inflation exceeding income growth. To have delivered like-
for-like net income growth in such conditions in our final 
quarter is pleasing and to have continued this into the first 
seven weeks of the current financial year is encouraging. 
We are confident that the improving quality of our pub 
estate, the innovation and resilience of our Publicans, 
the dedication of our team and proactive actions we are 
taking provide the appropriate foundations for delivering 
sustainable net income growth which will generate 
significant cash flows and value for shareholders.
R M Walker 
Chairman 
18 November 2013
Chairman’s Statement
“I am pleased to present our results for the financial year ended  
30 September 2013. The Company has made solid progress on a  
number of fronts, and is now well positioned to achieve stability in both 
like-for-like net income performance and in the size of the estate. ”
Robert Walker 
Chairman
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
03 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   3 10/12/2013   14:19:25
