 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
I am pleased to report our full year results for the year 
ended 30 September 2013, during which time we 
have delivered EBITDA before exceptional items of  
£313 million. We have made good progress securing our 
financial flexibility and have seen an improving trend in 
performance during the year which has culminated in the 
delivery of like-for-like net income growth of 0.6% in the 
final quarter.
Like-for-like net income for the total estate for the full year 
was down by 2.9%. Within the year there has been steady 
improvement in the underlying trading performance. In the 
first half of the year we reported a 4.2% decline in total 
estate like-for-like net income as trading was adversely 
impacted by heavy snow in January and the coldest March 
for many years. In addition, the cessation of trading on  
1 October 2012 of Waverley, our wines and spirits 
distributor, adversely impacted the business as we were 
unable to supply these products to Publicans, resulting in 
a direct loss of nearly £2 million of trading income. We now 
have a new two year distribution agreement for wines and 
spirits which has been operational throughout the second 
half and has enabled us to return to a normalised level of 
trading for these categories of products. 
The second half of the financial year has delivered a 1 .8% 
decline in like-for-like net income with the third quarter 
facing tough comparatives against the prior year due to 
the timing of Easter, a positive impact from the Euro 2012 
football championship and the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee 
celebrations. In the final quarter of our year we received 
some benefit from a hot spell of weather in July but were 
also adversely impacted in the final weeks of the year 
by disruption caused to beer deliveries by the industrial 
action of employees of KNDL, our national distributor. 
Against this backdrop we were pleased to achieve growth 
of 0.6% in total estate like-for-like net income in the final 
quarter. 
While there have been two events disrupting our supply 
chain that have had some financial impact during the 
year, it is pleasing that contingency plans and intense 
management actions have minimised the impact to the 
business.
Debt reduction remained a core element of our strategy 
during the year, driving the accelerated disposal 
programme which generated £150 million of net disposal 
proceeds. In addition, in September 2013, we successfully 
issued an unsecured, seven year convertible bond for 
gross proceeds of £97 million, with the proceeds used to 
reduce existing bank debt. The convertible bond issuance 
represents a new source of financing for the business 
which, with the proceeds from our accelerated disposal 
programme, has removed the requirement for significant 
bank amortisation in the next few years and extended 
our debt maturity profile. We now have a manageable 
amortisation profile which means we are able to return 
to a normalised level of asset disposals with the intention 
of only disposing of underperforming assets each year 
and reinvesting the c.£60 million of proceeds from such 
disposals to fund annual investment in the retained 
estate. Realising proceeds from asset disposals with very 
low yields and using those proceeds to generate more 
significant returns will provide incremental income to the 
business which will assist in the delivery of sustainable 
like-for-like net income growth. 
We have a manageable and tax efficient capital structure 
comprising predominantly long-term debt, consistent  
with the long-term nature of our freehold assets. Our 
strong cash generation from operations combined with 
the successful disposal programme has enabled us 
to reduce total net debt from £2.7 billion to £2.5 billion 
during the year. The Board currently believes that the 
best use of available cash is to continue to reduce debt 
to achieve a transfer of value to shareholders and as such 
will not resume the payment of dividends at this time. 
During the year Vince Cable, Secretary of State for 
Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) initiated a further 
consultation into the operations of the tied pub sector. 
While we await the findings of the consultation, we 
remain firmly of the view that any statutory intervention 
would be unnecessary, disproportionate, without 
reasonable foundation and potentially subject to multiple 
legal challenges. Taxes suffered by pubs increased by 
17% over the five years to September 2013, and now 
account for around £1 in every £3 taken across the bar. 
Over the same five years we worked hard to improve our 
pubs, investing in the region of £300 million in the fabric 
of the estate whilst seeing our average net income per 
pub fall by 12% as we have transferred significant value 
to our Publicans through reduced rents and increased 
discounts.
Chief Executive’s Review
08 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   8 10/12/2013   14:19:42 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
TRADING REVIEW
Total estate like-for-like net income - 
performance
Following a difficult start, like-for-like net income trends 
have improved throughout the year with the final 
quarter achieving growth of 0.6%. The year began with 
challenging conditions resulting in like-for-like net income 
decline of 4.2% in the first half, which then improved to 
a decline of 1.8% in the second half, producing a full year 
decline of 2.9%.
Total estate like-for-like net income - 
geography
Our estate in the South, representing 42% of total net 
income, contracted by 1.9% as the weaker trade across 
the country was partially offset by the effects of a stronger 
London economy. The agenda for our southern team is a 
growth strategy, prioritising return generating investment 
opportunities and ensuring our Publican selection process 
leads to optimal performance. In the North and the 
Midlands our teams face a different set of challenges. 
Whilst our business building activities apply across all 
geographic regions a much greater proportion of our 
Publican support is focused on the North and Midlands 
where economic pressures provide difficult conditions 
for Publicans and their customers. Improvements in 
trading performance have been experienced across all 
geographies in the final quarter of the year, with the 
South returning to net income like-for-like growth. 
 
Location
No. of pubs at 
30 Sept 
2013
Net income*
FY13
£m
% of total net 
income
FY13
Net income
FY12
£m
Net income 
change
FY13
%
North 1,640 104 28 108 (3.7)
Midlands 1,773 112 30 116 (3.4)
South 2,080 155 42 158 (1 .9) 
T otal 5,493 371 100 382 (2.9)
*  Net income represents like-for-like pub level gross profits, stated before property costs of £28 million, unallocated central costs of 
£6 million and excluding £8 million of net income relating to pubs that have been disposed of or non-licensed premises.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
09 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   9 10/12/2013   14:19:45 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - SUSTAINABLE 
INCOME GROWTH
In order to secure our objective of sustainable growth in 
like-for-like net income across the estate, our operational 
teams continue to focus on four key differentiating 
activities: enhancing the quality of the estate; attracting 
and retaining the right Publicans; selling in smarter ways 
to optimise income; and providing exceptional local 
support. 
Enhancing the quality of the estate 
The quality of our pub estate is critical to the success of 
our business, attracting the best Publicans and providing 
a platform for them to invest in the long-term profitability 
of their business. Property condition is a shared 
responsibility between ourselves and our Publicans. We 
have continued to invest in enhancing the quality of the 
estate with £62 million of capital investment during the 
year. This investment is often made working alongside 
our Publicans, who will additionally invest in facilities  
and fixtures and fittings, to reposition the pub for  
long-term growth. 
During the current year, some 32% of our capital 
investment has been directed at growth-driving 
initiatives up from the 23% achieved in the prior year. 
Our expectation is that we will move this proportion 
toward 60% of total capital investment over the next 
three years. Growth orientated capital investment 
during the current year ranged from some 15 individual  
large-scale projects of over £100,000, where we 
are delivering immediate returns on investment 
of approximately 15%, to our exterior decorations 
programme, where we invested in over 1,000 of our pubs 
at an average cost of £10,000 to improve the kerb appeal of 
our pubs. An additional benefit of the exterior decorations 
programme is that it encourages investment from the 
Publicans on interior decorations or enhancements to 
their offer to complement the exterior improvements.
We plan to invest £60 million a year for the foreseeable 
future to further improve the quality of our estate. This 
investment will not only enhance our income but will also 
represent a significant contribution toward supporting 
Publican profitability and is expected to assist with a 
reduction in Publican churn arising from business failures. 
Chief Executive’s Review
The White Lion
Portishead
Given the history of the site, it was important to improve the condition of the closed pub with a significant capital 
investment. It is one of only two known “tidal” mills, was mentioned in the Domesday Book and had been converted 
into an Inn back in the 1700s. 
With the increased potential market of the new-build marina area this site occupies a prominent position in Portishead 
to bridge between the old and the new areas. After careful consideration of the options, and with the partnership of a 
quality Publican, we developed a plan for a complete refurbishment to trade under the Mezzé concept. The site needed 
extensive re-modelling internally to maximize the trading area and bring in a new kitchen, as well as developing the 
external areas to capitalise on the growth in “al fresco dining and drinking” . 
After
Before
10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   10 10/12/2013   14:19:46 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
The Montgomery
Eastham
The Milk House
Sissinghurst
Brownlee Arms
Horsforth
Previously known as the Stanley Arms, this pub had been closed 
following a decline in the business. Taking a cluster strategy to 
our pubs in the area and given its size and location, we believed 
that the pub had the correct demographics for a good food offer, 
which would then complement our other pubs in the area. Once 
we had identified suitable Publicans to deliver our vision for the 
pub, we initiated a joint investment scheme requiring the total 
refurbishment of the trading areas, improving the layout and 
providing the opportunity for a higher quality food offer. This pub 
is now a highly successful operation, with a significant increase 
in trade.
Being the only pub in the village, our local team reviewed what 
would suit the pub (formerly known as The Bull) as well as the  
community, opting for a high end local with good quality food, 
underpinned by a healthy wet trade. This involved a collaboration 
with the new Publicans on the refurbishment of all trade areas, 
merging the two bars into one, and the creation of four boutique 
letting rooms to meet local demand for accommodation.  
The new Publicans, Dane and Sarah Allchorne, have quickly 
established a reputation for high quality food, with the beautifully 
refurbished letting rooms regularly used.
Formerly known as the Grey Horse, and in a poor state of 
repair, this site had been trading as a wet led operation with 
sub-optimal levels of trade for many years. Hand-in-hand with 
a new experienced Publican we commenced a programme 
to reposition the pub as a warm and welcoming mid-market 
drinking and dining experience. Developing the layout with a high 
quality refurbishment, we created a relaxed and comfortable 
environment, with better facilities to allow the introduction of 
the food offer whilst still retaining a dedicated drinking area.
Renamed after the famous Brownlee brothers, the Olympic  
triathletes from the area, the pub has been a great success since 
it has re-opened.
Before
Before
Before
After
After
After
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
11 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   11 10/12/2013   14:19:50 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Attracting and retaining the right 
Publicans to the Enterprise offer
Rental income is a material component of our net income 
and therefore rental income stability is critical for like-for-
like net income growth. We have seen some encouraging 
signs of stability, with rent reviews in the year reducing 
annualised rents, on average, by only 0.3%. In addition 
we are working to align rents to current market conditions 
with some 94% of pubs having a rent review or renewal 
over the past five years. 
While a change of Publican can be the catalyst for 
revitalising the prospects of a pub, reducing the instances 
of business failure is one of our key strategies to maintain 
and grow our like-for-like performance as such instances 
have the most significant impact upon our rental income. 
We are pleased with the progress we have made with 
reducing the level of business failure from the peak of 972 
in the extremely difficult trading environment of 2008/09 
to 579 in the current financial year and our objective is to 
deliver further improvement over the coming years.
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Number of business failures
■  Agreement failures  ■  Agreement surrenders
Decreasing rates of business failure
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
9.4% 13.1% 12.8%
% of closing estate
12.1% 12.4% 10.5%
730
340
390
539
390
374
291
257
433
485
388
443
322
972
875
762
734
579
Even the best Publicans may need our support to tackle 
the multiple challenges of weak consumer confidence, 
increased overhead costs, the burden of punitive increases 
in taxation and the high cost of regulation. We therefore 
continue to provide temporary concessions and support 
to Publicans, where considered appropriate, and are 
pleased to have seen this stabilise at a cost of £6 million, 
which is in line with the prior year. We are targeting this 
concessionary support more toward business-building 
activities that will enhance footfall and income for the 
Publican rather than purely defensive financial support. 
In addition, one of the means of reducing the instances 
of Publican change has been the use of our Beacon 
“managed tenancy” agreements, which has delivered 
a great foundation for our Beacon Publicans to grow 
successful businesses in a challenging marketplace. 
Under the Beacon model, we have a much closer 
relationship with the Publican and we get more involved 
with their operational decisions, retail offerings and 
retail standards. During the course of the year, we have 
reviewed our Beacon estate and have identified a number 
of sites that have traded successfully which could be 
returned to a normal tenancy agreement. We have also 
identified sites where, despite our best efforts, the trade 
from the pub was insufficient to support our continued 
involvement resulting in their disposal. At the financial 
year end we had 185 trading Beacon pubs, the majority 
of which have traded as Beacons for over twelve months 
and it is pleasing to report that these pubs increased their 
like-for-like net income by 8% in the year. 
Through Beacon we have seen evidence that our increased 
involvement in the operation of a pub can assist its trading 
income and its potential and this has encouraged us to 
assess whether we should operate a broader range of 
formats targeted at supporting those pubs at the lower 
end of our estate. Our core offering will remain the leased 
and tenanted model, incorporating the flexibility offered 
by our range of tied arrangements, but it is important 
that we understand how other formats could assist our 
ability to optimise our income whilst offering Publicans a 
number of options to best match their appetite for the risk 
and rewards of pub management. Within the assessment 
we are considering the full range of formats including 
commercial leases, franchise arrangements, partially 
managed and fully managed operations. We will examine 
current and anticipated market and consumer trends and 
will consider regulatory influences. The outcome may 
require us to develop an operational infrastructure capable 
of supporting such models. Of course, were we to develop 
a capability to support a managed format for the lower 
end of our estate, this could represent an opportunity to 
explore how we might use such a capability to optimise 
our income from other assets within the estate. 
Chief Executive’s Review
12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   12 10/12/2013   14:19:52 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Recognising that a successful pub requires skilled staff 
and Publicans, we have continued to invest in the quality 
of our training programmes. In addition to our existing 
free courses, such as “Food Retailing, Education and 
Development” , “Winning in a Local Market Area” and 
“Ways of Winning” , we have launched a new course 
called “Profit Through People” , which is designed to help 
Publicans improve business performance and get the 
best out of their staff. The course educates Publicans 
on how to coach and develop a motivated team, how to 
strategically review customer care and how to identify 
what makes a successful, profitable and sustainable 
business. Alongside these classroom courses, we have 
also launched an e-learning suite of over 20 courses, so 
that Publicans can improve their skills without having to 
leave their business. 
We have also partnered with Charnwood T raining Group to 
give Publicans easier access to apprenticeships that help 
improve core staff skills, covering the essentials required 
to run or work in a pub, including customer service, health 
and safety, licensing law compliance and handling money. 
By offering these apprenticeships, we are demonstrating 
to people that working in this industry means much more 
than standing behind a bar and are providing the tools 
they need to develop a successful and fruitful career. 
Our “100 Days” project, which launched this year, is a key 
component of our strategy to recruit and support better 
quality Publicans through our commitment to make the 
first “100 Days” of a Publican’s journey with Enterprise 
as smooth as possible. Building upon our existing 
comprehensive support to help Publicans get their 
businesses off to the best start, the project has enhanced 
the tools and framework for Enterprise and third parties 
to deliver it. In return for the unrivalled support that is 
offered, we insist on quality and commitment, both 
of which contribute to a more sustainable long-term 
business. 
We have also redesigned our website, as we identified a 
need to have more accessible information and to improve 
the communication of the Enterprise offer to all audiences 
to demonstrate why we believe it is the most competitive 
within our industry. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
13 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   13 10/12/2013   14:19:54 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Selling smarter
Our activities in this area are designed to support Publicans 
in order to enhance their income, to reduce costs paid to 
third parties and to improve beer sales and margins.
Product Offer
We have developed new strategic partnerships to help 
our Publicans by making their businesses even more 
competitive and attractive. With regard to entertainment, 
we have agreed terms with Molson Coors to provide the 
Sky entertainment package to Enterprise pubs at a 30% 
discount to list price, a potential average saving for each 
participating pub of £3,000 per annum. To date over 495 
Publicans have taken advantage of this offer. Additionally 
we have negotiated market-leading terms to enable 
Enterprise Publicans to enjoy significant discounts while 
taking full advantage of the investment made by BT into 
sports viewing. 
We have also partnered with the communications 
infrastructure and media services company Arqiva to offer 
a free, high speed WiFi service to our Publicans and their 
customers. Not only will this service help our Publicans 
to attract additional footfall and increase customer dwell 
time in their pubs, it will also typically save them £500 per 
annum. Over 1,500 Publicans have signed up for this offer 
and we are busy working with our partners to install the 
service as quickly as possible. Increasing the number of 
pubs that have access to high speed internet also gives 
us the opportunity to interact with our Publicans through 
our digital communication channels and will provide the 
platform for increased electronic ordering and marketing 
as we further develop our digital capabilities.
With the importance of a quality food offering now well 
established, we have also introduced a new partnership 
with Brakes – the “Enterprise Pub Club” – which is 
bringing cost savings, exclusive promotions, business 
planning, menu design, print services and other business 
tools to over 150 of our Publicans.
We have partnered with Crown Cellars of Carlsberg UK to 
provide a new wines and spirits portfolio. Crown Cellars 
have been supplying wines and spirits for over 20 years and 
their expert team has worked closely with us to develop 
a range that is broader and deeper than ever before. The 
new range has been considerably extended to include a 
large number of new premium spirits to capitalise on the 
growing consumer trend for this category. Along with our 
extended range, Publicans have access to merchandising 
hints and tips, food matching suggestions and profit 
calculators.
Pub Offer
We continue to provide meaningful support to Publicans 
in a number of different ways through help with marketing 
initiatives. This year, we have distributed thousands of 
free business support kits to help Publicans with the 
key occasions through from Halloween to New Year 
(“Countdown to Christmas”), the spring months (“Spring 
into Action”), and all the sporting occasions and festival 
opportunities of the summer (“Summer Drinks” and 
“Cask and Quality”). All kits are delivered to our pubs, 
packed full with point-of-sale resources and advice to help 
maximise trade in the pub over the relevant months. 
Through our “empower” communications, a monthly 
newspaper and a weekly e-bulletin, we keep our 
Publicans up-to-date with industry news, commercial 
offers and events throughout the year. In addition, 
75% of our Publicans are registered to use a dedicated 
Publican channel on enterpriseinns.com where they can 
access further support, tools and advice on running their 
business.
Chief Executive’s Review
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   14 10/12/2013   14:19:54 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
Exceptional local support
Through the local management of our pubs, we tailor our 
support as appropriate for each area. For example, during 
the year we have trialled a cluster approach to identifying 
the appropriate offer for all our pubs in and around the 
centre of Wakefield. Within a one mile radius of Wakefield 
city centre we own 13 pubs which collectively delivered 
a like-for-like decline in net income in 2012 of some 20%, 
arising from extremely difficult market conditions. Rather 
than look at each pub individually the local team focused 
on a holistic strategy to cover all of the pubs together. 
As a result of this cluster strategy we invested a total 
of £280,000 to differentiate between the sites; we 
transferred two sites to a Beacon operation, changed the 
pub offer in seven pubs and sold one site. Collectively 
the Wakefield pubs delivered a 7% like-for-like net income 
growth in the current year and an estimated return on 
investment of some 15%. 
Our regional managers are critical to the commercial 
relationship between us and our Publicans and three 
of them were finalists at the 2012 ALMR Operations 
Managers Awards, proving themselves as excellent 
leaders in their field. As at September 2013, we also had 
five regional managers as finalists in the 2013 awards. 
All our regional managers are currently engaged in the 
BII Level 4 Certificate in Multiple Licensed Premises 
Management course and all will have completed the 
course by the end of the 2013 calendar year. This 
accreditation requires a great deal of work, including 
exams, coursework and conducting role play assessments 
on a number of modules integral to their relationship with 
Publicans, such as P&L and budget control, negotiation 
and communication skills, as well as business planning 
and managing meetings. 
Behind every great community pub, there is a great 
Publican. In 2012 we launched our Community Hero 
Awards programme where we committed £1 million over 
10 years to community causes and initiatives promoted 
by our Publicans and their customers. Many regularly 
make an incredibly positive impact on the communities 
they serve. We like to call them Community Heroes 
and their activities can involve anything from providing 
a local meeting space for a community group or raising 
awareness and funds for a chosen charity. The inaugural 
awards strengthened the outstanding community work 
of 18 pubs. Again this year, a panel of judges – including 
the 2012 National Winner, Publican Jim Woolley from the 
Hare Inn in Leighton Buzzard – selected the 18 Regional 
Winners for 2013 who were awarded £5,000 each to build 
on their support for local causes. At the Community Hero 
Awards ceremony attended by Brandon Lewis MP , the 
minister responsible for community pubs, the National 
Winner was unveiled as Debbie Collinge of The Lord 
Nelson, Luddenden, West Y orkshire and she was awarded 
a further £5,000 to invest in her chosen community 
initiatives.
For our Community Hero 
Award Winners see page 127
In April and May of this year, we hosted a series of 
roadshows – called “empowerlive!” – presenting our 
Publicans with a great opportunity to not only network 
with suppliers and professionals from across the industry, 
but also to profit from access to over £6,000 worth of 
exclusive, show-only offers and deals, a host of prizes 
and activities, upcoming products and services, insightful 
seminars and interactive workshops to help them build 
their businesses. The roadshows were open to all 
Enterprise Publicans, taking place at seven key locations 
around the country such as Wembley Stadium and Leeds 
United FC, and brought together a huge range of major 
suppliers such as AB InBev, Diageo, Heineken, Molson 
Coors, Brakes, Mediatheme, BII and Drinkaware to name 
but a few.
Community Hero Awards, National Winner 2013
Debbie Collinge of The Lord Nelson, Luddenden,  
West Yorkshire
The Lord Nelson is at the heart of all village events 
throughout the year, from Easter egg hunts and charity race 
nights to a Santa’s Grotto at Christmas. The pub provides 
support and facilities for various local groups such as the 
Mayor’s Fund, the Luddenden Bloomers and the Pints of 
View Society.
Popularly known as ‘The Nelly’, the pub acts as a safe haven 
when the village is hit by floods or snow. Debbie and her 
team have big plans to get the most out of the £10,000 
Community Hero funding and is already looking to establish 
monthly IT classes following the purchase of new computer 
equipment. It is hoped that the purchase of a small gritter 
and plough will benefit local residents in the winter, whilst 
Debbie also plans to buy a defibrillator for the village and set 
up an annual Luddenden time-trial cycling event.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
15 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   15 10/12/2013   14:19:55 23069.04    10 December 2013 2:19 PM    Proof 6
PROPERTY REVIEW – OPTIMISING OUR 
FREEHOLD ESTATE
£62 million invested to enhance the 
estate and support Publican profitability 
Our property team works with Publicans and our operational 
team to optimise the use and value of our assets and to 
implement suitable capital investment projects. During 
the year we invested £62 million enhancing the quality of 
the estate with an increased proportion of our investment 
focused on growth-driving activities. The property team 
works closely with operations to identify the optimum 
economic use for every asset, including reviewing the 
property condition, assessment of appropriateness of the 
retail offer of the pub and assessing the capabilities of the 
Publican. These considerations drive the identification of 
an agreed strategy between our operational and property 
teams so that we have a plan for every pub which will 
determine prioritisation of capital investment and early 
identification of underperforming pubs which should be 
disposed of. 
£150 million raised from successful 
programme of pub disposals
Total net proceeds received from our successful disposal 
programme in the year to 30 September 2013 amounted 
to £150 million, from the disposal of 428 properties in the 
year. The majority of these pubs, 400, were considered 
to be underperforming tail end pubs which generated net 
proceeds on disposal of £116 million, at an average value 
of £290,000, with an additional 28 properties considered 
to be exceptional, generating net proceeds of £34 million 
at an average multiple of 14 times income.
Following the issue of a convertible bond during the 
year, we now intend to reduce our disposal programme 
to focus purely on the underperforming element of the 
estate to generate sufficient cash proceeds each year 
to fund the annual capital investment in the retained 
business to enhance its income potential. Total disposal 
proceeds for the year to 30 September 2014 are expected 
to be in the region of £70 million, of which some £20 
million is expected from our Unique estate.
Effective asset management
An important aspect of the role of our property team is to 
operate as any commercial landlord should. Our Publicans 
have legal responsibilities with regard to the upkeep of our 
pubs and we need to ensure that: firstly, our Publicans are 
aware of, and understand, their obligations; and secondly, 
these obligations are enforced. During the year we have 
enhanced our property maintenance procedures such 
that the property condition of every pub is assessed on 
a quarterly basis and the findings discussed and actions 
agreed with the Publican. We then have a monitoring and 
enforcement process to ensure required property work is 
completed and legally enforced where necessary. Such 
procedures, combined with a reduction in the instances 
of Publican change, are important to enable us to increase 
the proportion of our capital investment on growth-driving 
activities.
REGULATORY INTERVENTION – 
DISPROPORTIONATE AND UNWARRANTED
During the year we welcomed the decision of the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer to abolish the Beer Duty 
Escalator and to reduce the duty on beer by 1p per pint, 
bringing welcome relief to our Publicans. We were also 
pleased by the introduction of an employment allowance, 
reducing employers’ National Insurance bills by £2,000 
from April 2014. Against this backdrop it is particularly 
disappointing and unfortunate for the whole industry 
that BIS has again challenged the self-regulation in the 
landlord-tenant relationship. We have proactively engaged 
in the consultation process and await the outcome before 
considering any further course of action. Rather than 
adopting the proposals of the consultation, we believe 
that the industry should instead work together to increase 
transparency, awareness and understanding of the self-
regulatory system among tied tenants. The rights and 
benefits of this system are assured under an improving 
code of conduct, which is already legally binding through 
contract, without the need for the damaging and costly 
straitjacket of statutory intervention imposing unworkable 
rent controls that override the market.
As always, we have continued to work with representative 
bodies of property owners, brewers and Publicans to 
further evolve the Industry Framework Code of Practice 
and firmly believe that self-regulation is effective. Key 
elements of the self-regulatory regime are the low cost 
and easily accessible services provided by the Pub 
Independent Rent Review Scheme (PIRRS) and the Pub 
Independent Conciliation and Arbitration Service (PICAS). 
PIRRS provides Publicans with independent determination 
of rent at the time of a rent review, while PICAS provides 
a mechanism for dispute resolution and remedy. We will 
continue to extensively promote the availability of these 
services to our Publicans.
G E T uppen CBE 
Chief Executive 
18 November 2013
Chief Executive’s Review
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   16 10/12/2013   14:19:55 23069.04    10 December 2013 6:06 PM    Proof 6
DIRECTORS’ REPORT ACCOUNTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
17 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.indd   17 10/12/2013   18:07:50
