  Entertainment Rights Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
Chairman’ s 
Statement
Overview 
I am pleased to present the results for the year 
ended 31 December 2007.  Despite difficult 
trading conditions owing to DVD distribution 
issues in the UK and a decline in consumer 
confidence, particularly in the USA, the 
Group delivered a strong performance and 
achieved the majority of its objectives. Over 
the past four years, the Group has expanded 
geographically from a wholly UK-based 
enterprise to a group with operations in the 
world’s two largest media markets, the UK 
and the USA, as well as a significant presence 
in the international media market.  Over the 
same period, Group revenue has grown from 
£25.5m in 2004 to £68.1m in 2007.
During the year under review, the size of 
our business more than doubled following 
the acquisition of Classic Media Holdings, 
Inc. (“Classic Media”) in January 2007.  The 
acquisition resulted in a significant integration 
task and the Board has been very pleased with 
the outcome of the integration.  The Classic 
Media business has been greatly enhanced 
by the application of ER’s brand management 
skills and expertise.  It is testament to this 
expertise that the re-branded Christmas 
Classics DVD titles delivered significant 
growth in revenue in 2007.   
In January 2008, the Company announced 
that its exclusive DVD distributor, Universal 
Pictures (UK) Limited (“UPUK”), had 
encountered difficulties in the manufacture 
and supply of DVDs to UK retailers.  This was 
a development that was outside the control of 
the Company.  As a result of these difficulties, 
agreed release dates during November 
and December 2007 were not met and this 
impacted negatively on the Group’s results in 
the important fourth quarter trading period.  
The operational difficulties encountered with 
UPUK during the last quarter of 2007 have 
now been resolved and UPUK continues to 
supply and distribute ER’s DVD products 
to UK retailers.  ER is pursuing appropriate 
remedies for the losses incurred as a result 
of UPUK’s failure to supply DVDs in the last 
quarter of 2007.
Financials
The results for the year to 31 December 
2007 demonstrate that the Group made 
solid progress in many areas of the business, 
most notably the successful integration of 
Classic Media.  Whilst the overall profitability 
of the Group was below expectations, this 
should not detract from the considerable 
achievements that were realised during the 
period.
Group revenue increased by 129% to £68.1m 
(2006: £29.7m) and underlying profit before 
tax increased by 45% to £12.6m (2006: 
£8.7m).  Group operating profit increased to 
£16.4m (2006: £10.2m) and profit before tax 
increased to £7.9m (2006: £7.8m).  During 
the year, sterling appreciated against the US 
2
Rod Bransgrove Chairman George of the Jungle
TM
 
Sold into more than 100 territories worldwide
One of the highest rating shows on Cartoon Network US (boys 6-9 years)
A consistent top five rating show on Nicktoons in the UK
3
dollar with a resulting impact on earnings.  
At constant exchange rates, Group revenue 
would have increased by 134% to £69.5m 
and underlying profit before tax would have 
increased by 62% to £14.1m.
Underlying EBITDA increased by 106% to 
£31.8m (2006: £15.5m).  At constant exchange 
rates, underlying EBITDA would have been 
£0.7m higher at £32.5m representing an 
increase on the prior year of 111%.
Net debt at the year end was £107.9m and 
was in line with the Board’s expectations 
following the acquisition of Classic Media.  
Operating cash generation in the year was 
99% of operating profits.  The Group’s gross 
bank debt facilities are £129.7m and the 
Group had cash resources at the year end 
of £21.7m.  The Group met all of its banking 
covenants during the period under review.
The Group is in a strong financial position 
and well positioned to focus on driving the 
organic growth of its substantial portfolio of 
intellectual property assets to ensure that, 
over the medium-term, we deliver the value 
that shareholders rightly expect.
Group Development
ER’s business model is robust and the 
acquisition of Classic Media in January 2007 
has already proven itself to be a significant 
strategic acquisition for the Company. 
One year on and the Classic Media brand 
portfolio has greatly benefited from ER’s 
international brand management and sales 
distribution expertise resulting in a number 
of key agreements being signed during the 
year.  These include a pan-European toy deal 
with Giochi Preziosi for Casper the Friendly 
 
Ghost®, licensing agreements for Hot Stuff® 
in Germany, France and South Africa and the 
appointment of a toy partner for Lassie® in 
Germany.  George of the Jungle™ has seen 
strong television sales with deals secured in 
Germany, Latin America (Disney Channel) 
and France.
Growing from its strong position in the US 
market, the roll-out of the VeggieTales® 
faith-and-values based brand from Big Idea 
has commenced with a focus on positioning 
VeggieTales® as the leading pre-school 
brand in the Christian retail market in key 
English-speaking territories.
Classic Media has significantly strengthened 
ER’s existing operations and the acquisition 
has had a transformational impact in 
positioning ER as a global family and 
entertainment media business.
People
On 18 March 2008 the Company announced 
that Nick Phillips had been appointed Chief 
Executive Officer with immediate effect and 
that Mike Heap, the former Chief Executive 
Officer, had resigned.  The Board looks 
forward to working with Nick to develop and 
enhance the Company’s presence as a global 
media company and would like to thank Mike 
for his significant contribution during the past 
nine years.
There have been a number of changes to 
the executive leadership team during 2007 
and the first quarter of 2008.  In May 2007,  Deborah Dugan (ex-President of Disney 
Publishing Worldwide) was appointed 
President and CEO of Entertainment Rights 
North America.  More recently, in March 
2008, Andrew Kerr was appointed Executive 
Director, Consumer Products and Marketing, 
International reporting to Jane Smith, Chief 
Commercial & Creative Director.  Andrew was 
previously Executive Vice President, Global 
Licensing & Marketing at Ragdoll Worldwide 
Limited and was instrumental in developing 
the hugely successful licensing programme 
for In the Night Garden.
The Board remains committed to the best 
practices of corporate governance and its 
composition will be reviewed with regard to 
the independence and relevant skills of the 
non-executive directors.
Our employees around the world have 
worked hard during the year and have 
fuelled the success of the business.  They 
deserve our thanks for their commitment and 
enthusiasm.
Offer Update
Further to the announcement on 21 January 
2008 and the update on 18 March 2008, the 
Board confirms that the preliminary talks with 
interested parties are continuing.  These 
discussions may or may not lead to an offer 
being made for the Company. There can be 
no certainty that any offer for the Company, if 
made, will be at a level which would receive 
sufficient support from shareholders.
Dividend
We believe that shareholders will be best 
served by a continuing focus on investment in 
the ongoing development of ER.  Therefore, 
the Board is not proposing a dividend for 
2007.  We will continue to keep the payment 
of dividends under review.
Current Trading & Outlook
Despite the setback in the UK in the last 
quarter of 2007 and the increasing uncertainty 
in global economic conditions, the Group 
remains committed to its strategy of building 
a powerful and resilient global family and 
children’s entertainment business.  There are 
a number of exciting developments planned 
for 2008 for our key brands including the 
launch of Postman Pat® Special Delivery 
Service.  In keeping with prior years, the 
Group remains weighted to the fourth 
quarter.
The Board remains committed to a programme 
of business improvement which will, in time, 
deliver the returns expected and is pleased to 
have secured the services of Nick Phillips as 
Chief Executive Officer to lead the Company 
into its next stage of development.  
Due to the current volatility in financial 
markets and the economic outlook for the 
US economy, the Board remains cautious in 
its outlook. However, it expects the Group 
to continue to build on the progress made 
during 2007.
Rod Bransgrove 
Chairman 
8 April 2008
4
 Entertainment Rights Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
