 14  Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2009
‘An exceptional year in challenging times’ 
Dear Shareholder, 
I am delighted to report a number of significant achievements and a 
continuing improvement in the Epistem results for the year ended 
30 June 2009. 
Despite uncertain market and trading conditions Epistem has enjoyed 
another exceptional year in challenging times.  
Results 
Further details of the results for the period are covered in the Chief 
Executive’s Review, but operationally and financially the year to 30 
June 2009 saw the Company increase revenues by 92% to £4.0m 
(2008: £2.1m) with a Group loss on ordinary activities before taxation 
of £0.7m (2008: Loss £1.3m). Based on future profitability and the 
benefit of the prior year losses’ tax credit, the Company generated its 
first after tax profit of £0.1m (2008: Loss £1.2m). Cash reserves were 
£3.7m (2008: £2.1m). 
David Evans 
Non-executive Chairman
Chairman’s Statement Review of the Year
Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2009  15  
During the year the Company continued to make significant progress 
across each of its divisions: 
Contract Research Services revenues grew by 20% to £2.3m •	
(2008: £1.9m). The growth was supported by the continuing 
expansion of our US government bio-defence contract and 
the launch of new service offerings. Whilst the financial market 
uncertainties caused some disruption over the year, the 
division moved carefully through this period, with firmer trading 
experienced over the second half.        
In its first full year of operation following the successful share •	
placing in 2007, Biomarker revenues grew to £0.7m (2008: 
£0.2m) to record a first operating profit for the division. We 
anticipate further growth in this division over the forthcoming year.
The Novel Therapies division announced its first research and •	
development collaboration with Swiss based Novartis AG. The 
Regenerative Medicine collaboration is targeted at identifying new 
drug targets and therapeutics across a variety of epithelial disease 
areas. Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis has paid 
Epistem an upfront cash payment and provide research funding. 
If leads are commercialised, Epistem is eligible to receive tiered 
royalties on worldwide sales.
Strengthened investor relations and communications have further •	
advanced the visibility of the Company and we retain a close 
relationship with our investors to ensure they are kept informed 
of progress. This close communication has maintained strong 
growth in the share price performance over the period. In the light 
of our anticipated future growth we will continue to build on our 
investor communications. 
The Company also reports its first positive earnings per share. •	
Outlook
Epistem is transforming itself into a diverse, technology leading and 
profitable biotechnology group underpinned by strong growth. Despite 
the difficult to judge market and trading conditions, the outlook for 
Epistem is increasingly positive, although we remain vigilant around 
our future strategy. 
Each of our divisional businesses is establishing itself in a rapidly 
changing biotechnology/companion biomarker segment. Despite 
tough market conditions, the profitable Contract Research Services 
division has performed well with the Biomarker division also profitable 
and growing, providing further support for our forecast outlook. With 
the Novel Therapies first drug discovery collaboration now in place 
with one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, we 
anticipate rapid advancement of our drug discovery and development 
programme and acceleration of identified leads. Epistem is positioning 
itself as a world leader in therapeutic discovery in the field of epithelial 
stem cell regulation and control. With industry awareness and visibility 
of our technology still growing we expect to see the Company 
advance further over the coming year. 
Finally, I would like to thank the Board and our employees for their 
effort and commitment in driving Epistem’s progress over the past 
year, as well as our investors whose valued support has provided 
a stable platform for our continued growth. 
David Evans 
Non-executive Chairman
23 October 2009 16  Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
‘Strengthening fundamentals for future growth’ 
Dear Shareholder,
I am delighted to present the third Annual Report for the Company 
following its admission to AIM in April 2007. 
Whilst economic and trading conditions were difficult throughout 
the year Epistem continued to make excellent progress in building 
itself into a globally recognised drug discovery and early stage 
development company.    
The financial results for the Group presented in this report have 
been prepared using merger accounting, reflecting the results for 
the Group’s sole trading subsidiary for the year to 30 June 2009 and 
for the comparative period to 30 June 2008. Please note that the 
previous year comparison figures (shown in brackets) have been 
restated where appropriate to reflect the introduction of the new 
Biomarker division. 
Headline progress over the year included;
Year-on-year net sales growth up 92%. •	
The Company reports its maiden profit and positive earnings  •	
per share.
Contract Research Services sales increased by 20% over the •	
previous year.
Strong Biomarker sales giving rise to a maiden divisional profit •	
Novel Therapies division announces its first major collaboration •	
with Novartis AG in the field of Regenerative Medicine.
A strengthened cash balance of £3.7m and improved  •	
trading outlook.
Integrated business model
The Company has made strong progress over the year, with 
each division now moving into profitability. The establishment of 
independent divisional profitability enables the creation a powerful risk-
reduced business model seldom seen in the biotechnology sector. 
Epistem provides a profitable and growing business model whilst 
offering significant upside potential from our growing Biomarker and 
Novel Therapies divisions. We will continue to enhance and exploit our 
integrated core competence in epithelial cell biology whilst retaining 
commercial autonomy across each of our divisions. 
Matthew H Walls
Chief Executive Officer Review of the Year
Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2009  17  
Financial review
The Company reports a turnover of £4.0m (2008: £2.1m) for the year 
ended 30 June 2009. Revenues were underpinned by the Contract 
Research Services division, which delivered sales of £2.3m (2008: 
£1.9m) a 20% year-on-year growth. In its first full year of trading, 
the Biomarker division saw sales increase significantly to £0.7m 
(2008: £0.2m). The Novel Therapies division also reported increased 
sales of £1.0m (2008: £0.0m), resulting from the recently announced 
collaboration with Novartis AG. 
Consolidated territory revenues were split US 63% (41%), EU 19% 
(31%) and UK 17% (28%), the US territory figures strengthened by our 
NIH and Novartis collaborations. 
The sales growth in Contract Research Services delivered a modest 
increase in operating profit up to £0.6m (2008: £0.5m). The Biomarker 
sales growth enabled the division to report a maiden operating profit. 
Novel Therapies reported a small operating loss of £0.2m (2008: Loss 
£0.9m). Central administration cost increased by £0.2m to £1.1m 
(2008: £0.9m) primarily due to increased staff costs and 
professional fees. 
The Group reported profit for the year was £0.1m (2008: Loss £1.2m) 
with headcount in the company now at 45 (2008: 40).
Cash reserves at the end of the year were £3.7m (2008: £2.1m) 
benefiting from improved trading and collaboration income. 
Earnings per share were 1p per share (2008: Loss 17p). 
Against a backdrop of uncertain market conditions, the strengthening 
Epistem trading position translated into a significant share price 
increase over the year. Clear investor communication of the 
Company’s strategy and performance remains a key element of our 
success and we will continue to strengthen communications as we 
embark upon our next phase of growth. 
The Company’s on site audit was completed in October 2009 by HW 
Chartered Accountants, and their Audit report will be included in the 
Annual Report.
Operating review
Contract Research Services
Over the financial year, Contract Research Services delivered a 20% 
year-on-year growth in revenue under difficult market conditions. 
Despite these conditions, our specialist service offerings provided 
a robust defence against the market weakness with a noticeable 
increase in revenues from the larger pharmaceutical groups partnering 
with Epistem for their preclinical and discovery research services.
Revenue growth increased across each of our territories with our 
oncology and mucositis areas showing greatest gain. Both our new 
client relationships and aggregate contract values also increased 
over the year. 
 
Our collaboration with the US National Institutes of Health’s 
biodefence programme continues to expand. Epistem is a main 
provider of tests for agents which may treat radiation sickness 
following a nuclear incident. Inflammatory bowel disease and 
immunohistochemistry models also made good progress over 
the year. 
With the second half of the year returning to a more settled trading 
position we saw a further uplift in demand for our services. Our focus 
on specialist testing of preclinical drug compounds in our core disease 
areas continues to provide an attractive business model from which 
we anticipate further growth over the coming year.
Biomarker 
Reporting separately from the Contract Research Services division 
for the first time this year, our oncology Biomarker business enjoyed 
strong growth to report a small maiden operating profit. Under the 
recently launched brand GenetRx
TM
, the hair biomarker platform 
provides a pharmacodynamic (PD) measure of drug-induced gene 
expression for use in pre-clinical and clinical studies. Continued 
development of our biomarker platform through partnerships with 
major pharmaceutical industry players will enable us to create 
an effective ‘companion PD biomarker’ to complement drug 
development from discovery through to market.    
