 The Group has made good progress 
against its stated strategy in the period 
under review. The strategy is focused on 
prioritising growth in the US, the Private 
Jet business in Europe and broking in the 
Oil & Gas and Tour Operating sectors.  
This is resulting in a good diversification  
of broking revenues with strong 
performances seen. In fact, it is pleasing 
to report that revenue in these areas grew 
by 91% to £91.4m. However, growth in the 
continental European private jet market 
remains challenging, reflecting the 
economic conditions in the region.  
Air Partner continues to evolve its  
people and systems, selectively investing 
in skills and initiatives that support the 
strategy and help create a long term 
competitive advantage. In the period 
under review, the Group has added to its 
senior management team, strengthened 
and re-energised the sales force in 
selected growth areas, reviewed and 
refined the Information Technology (IT) 
strategy, while finalising a successful 
transition to a product-led structure. 
 
Dividend
The Board remains confident in the 
Group’s long term prospects and is 
pleased to propose a final dividend  
of 14.0p per share, to be paid on  
16 June 2014, to shareholders on the 
register on 16 May 2014 (subject to 
shareholder approval at the General 
Meeting). Due to the change to the 
accounting reference date, the Group  
paid an increased interim dividend  
of 14.0p in October 2013, equivalent  
to the amount that would have been  
paid as a final dividend prior to the 
change of year-end. This brings the  
total dividend for the 18 months to 
January 2014 to 34.05p, 87% higher  
than the total dividend for the statutory  
12 month comparative period.
Chairman’s statement 
Air Partner has performed strongly  
during the 12 months to 31 January 2014 
with turnover growing by 7% to £224m 
and underlying profit increasing by  
28% to £4.3m. Commercial Jet’s strong 
performance was led by significant 
growth in the tour operating sector and 
successful new business wins helped 
replace the on-going contraction  
in government work, leading to  
a 14% increase in revenue and a 38% 
increase in underlying profit before tax. 
Private Jet’s also performed well, 
particularly in the UK and the US,  
with revenues up by 21% and underlying 
profit before tax increasing by 36%.  
The Group remains cash generative  
and debt free. In the 12 month period, 
cash rose by £1.1m to £18.4m. £8.8m 
(2013: £8.6m) of cash is JetCard clients’ 
deposits, which are segregated and  
held on deposit. 
During the period, the Group undertook  
a fundamental review of its investment  
in new technology systems and, 
additionally moved the business to  
a product led structure. Unfortunately  
the technology review has resulted  
in a significant impairment of the IT 
investment and this, together with  
the restructuring and redundancy costs 
largely associated with the new product 
led structure has led to a charge of £1.4m 
to the income statement. After the impact 
of these non-trading items profit before 
tax was £2.8m (2013: £3.2m). 
During 2013 Air Partner changed its accounting reference date from  
31 July to 31 January. As a consequence the statutory results are in respect  
of the 18 month trading period from 1 August 2012 to 31 January 2014,  
with a 12 month comparative to 31 July 2012. T o aid understanding pro forma  
results have also been provided for the 12 months to 31 January 2014  
with a 12 month comparative to 31 January 2013. The narrative to the results  
is based on the pro forma results with additional comments on the statutory  
results where it aids understanding.
The business pays dividends subject to 
performance and typically they are split 
on the basis of one third interim payment 
and two thirds final payment. In future the 
board anticipates returning to a one-third 
and two third split and intends to continue 
the recent practice of growing the 
dividend by 10% per annum.
Board Changes
Shareholders will be aware of  
Tony Mack’s intention to retire from  
the Board at the forthcoming General 
Meeting. Under his initial leadership  
and subsequent guidance, Air Partner  
has become the successful business  
that it is today. The whole Company owes 
him a debt of gratitude and we wish him 
well for the future, while continuing to 
draw on his unique experience as  
Life President of the Company.
Elsewhere we have added to the  
Board and in September 2013 we 
welcomed Grahame Chilton as a  
Non-Executive Director. Grahame brings  
a wealth of global business experience, 
particularly in broking businesses.  
As previously announced, Gavin Charles 
will be leaving on 30 April. Neil Morris was 
appointed interim Chief Financial Officer 
on 1 April 2014 to allow for a transitional 
handover period. Neil was Air Partner’s 
Group Financial Controller, a position  
he held since July 2013. Before joining  
Air Partner, Neil was Group Finance 
Director of All Leisure Group PLC,  
the niche cruise and tour operator listed  
on AIM, and prior to that he spent 11 years 
at Deloitte LLP , primarily working in the 
aviation and travel sector. We continue  
to work with Odgers Berndtson, one of the 
UK’s pre-eminent executive search firms, 
to assist in the search process for a 
permanent Chief Financial Officer and will 
provide an update as soon as practical. Strategic report
Air Partner plc  
Annual Report 2014 07
Outlook
Current trading is in line with the  
Board’s expectations, and while  
the economic environment continues 
slowly to improve, our experience leads  
us to balance such optimism with  
a degree of conservatism in our outlook 
and planning. Our focus on areas of 
strategic importance continues to 
produce results, and we are confident  
that further improvements in IT , efficiency 
and productivity combined with the 
opportunities we are seeing across  
the business, will generate further gains. 
We are a well-funded group with a trusted 
brand and an enviable reputation.  
We have a clear strategy and a strong 
product offering with a depth of 
management experience that positions  
us well for the future.
Richard Everitt, Chairman
9 April 2014
