 Chief Executive’s review 
This is a strong performance  
with revenue growing by 7% and 
underlying profit before tax up 28%. 
However after the impact of the one-off, 
non-trading items, profit before tax  
was £2.8m (2013: £3.2m); please refer  
to the Chief Financial Officer’s Review  
for further details. Pleasingly on an 
underlying basis, profit before tax  
grew by 28% to £4.3m (2013: £3.3m). 
This reflected good trading in both 
Commercial Jets and Private Jets which 
have performed well and benefitted  
from the recent restructuring into 
product lines. Our close management  
of the areas of strategic focus (USA, 
Private Jets in Europe, Oil & Gas and  
T our Operators) has continued to deliver 
excellent results, with revenue up across 
these areas by 91%.  Air Partner plc  
Annual Report 2014 09
Strategic report
This growth is significant for the business and 
marks excellent progress against the Group’s 
aim to further diversify its revenues and clients.
“
“
Mark Briffa, CEO
This growth is significant for the  
business and marks excellent progress 
against the Group’s aim to further 
diversify its revenues and clients.
The Freight division, a small but 
important part of the Group, has started  
to show some signs of improvement. 
However, the results reflect a tough 
comparable period due to the conclusion 
of a large government contract and  
the on-going difficulties in the market. 
While revenues contracted, pleasingly 
underlying profit before tax remained 
unchanged due to the early management 
action on cost control.
The Group’s transition to a product led 
structure enabled synergies to be better 
captured, and has improved the ability  
to direct skills, expertise and knowledge 
across borders in an inclusive and 
integrated approach. The restructuring, 
announced in March 2013, has 
significantly contributed to the  
strong Private Jet and Commercial Jet 
performances in these results.  
The restructuring associated with 
delivering this change resulted in  
the need to make a number of roles 
redundant and the costs associated  
with this are included in the £646,000  
of restructuring and redundancy costs 
incurred in the period. 
The transition to a product led 
restructure required a strengthened 
senior management team, capable  
of developing business divisions in 
multiple territories and furthering  
growth across the company’s areas  
of strategic focus. Significant progress 
has been made on this front, and in 
August 2013 Paul Richardson was 
appointed as Director of Private Jets.  
Paul previously worked in the wealth 
management, sports and entertainment 
sectors, both at Coutts and Barclays 
Wealth and his experience and insight 
working with high net worth individuals  
is proving valuable.  
The revenue from Inclusive Tour 
Operating has increased by 200% 
against the prior period, with significant 
new contracts won. The team was further 
strengthened in September 2013 with 
the appointment of Alan Murray as 
Director of Inclusive Tour Programmes. 
Alan was previously MD and COO  
of Voyages of Discovery and Director  
of Monarch Airlines; his wide range  
of experience is already making a 
positive impact.
Marketing helps drive both the existing 
and new areas of strategic focus and last 
December Kiran Parmar joined as Global 
Director of Marketing.  Kiran previously 
held senior international marketing roles 
at Bentley Motors and Ford Motor 
Company, enabling him to understand 
both the luxury side of our Private Jets 
business and the Commercial Jets and 
Freight divisions too.  
Air Partner has historically 
underinvested in technology  
and as part of a step change in IT,  
Colin Jowers was appointed Global 
Director of Business Technology in 
January. Until recently, Colin was  
global Chief Operating Officer  
of Royal Bank of Scotland’s Global 
Banking and Markets Research  
and Strategy division.  He has also  
been involved in numerous broking 
service industry initiatives,  
focused on maximising technology  
and operational efficiencies.  
Colin’s appointment is a direct 
reflection of the Group’s desire  
to place technology at the heart  
of Air Partner’s offer, enabling the 
Group to better understand its 
customers, putting their needs first, 
while more accurately measuring 
performance against these aims.  
With that objective in mind I am 
pleased to announce the start of 
Project Connect, a multi-year global  
technology project, which will include  
the deployment of Microsoft Dynamics 
CRM across the business.  Our JetCard continues to perform well with  
sales and renewals up 29% for the period. 
“
“
Mark Briffa, CEO
Chief Executive’s review continued
Colin’s deep knowledge and  
experience are already proving 
themselves and having reviewed  
the Group’s IT systems, he is  
already transforming the way  
we work. As part of his review,  
Colin recommended Air Partner  
continue with its planned CRM 
development, but discontinue the 
integrated broker and finance tools. 
Subsequently, the CRM element  
will go live this year, but the £77 4,000 
investment in the broker and finance  
tool will now not be utilised and has 
been fully impaired.  However, we are 
confident that the revised system,  
under Colin’s management and 
combined with the new systems  
will be better placed to help drive  
future growth.
Colin will be responsible for all of  
Air Partner’s global IT going forward, 
Project Connect being the initial  
focal point for this. Phase one  
includes a global IT infrastructure 
upgrade, enabling the CRM to be 
delivered in the second half of this 
financial year, and thereafter, the  
critical introduction of the platform to 
support our new technology strategy 
and product roadmap across the Group.  
As a result of the increased strategic 
focus on technology and Project 
Connect, going forward we expect  
the annual technology cost for the 
Group to increase, albeit off  
a low base. We are confident  
that this is strategically the right  
investment to be making and the 
increased cost will better position  
the Company for the long term.  
Private Jet Broking
Revenue increased in the period  
by 21% to £55. 9m (2013: £46.4m)  
with underlying profit before tax 
increasing by 36% to £1.5m  
(2013: £1.1m). Significant growth  
was achieved in the UK and US,  
which was driven by investment  
in high calibre talent that has added 
a new dimension to the private jet 
division, with an increased focus  
on sales and improved tailoring  
of products to suit local markets.
We are seeing particularly strong 
interest from high net worth individual 
leisure traffic, and in line with this,  
our JetCard continues to perform well. 
Sales and renewals are up 29% for the 
period with card utilisation up by 84%.  
The product continues to provide  
the flexibility that both corporates  
and high net worth individuals demand. 
This flexibility has been improved 
further with the launch of our new  
card product aimed specifically at  
the corporate market. As the economy 
continues to improve, we are well 
placed to benefit from further HNWI 
flying as potential clients seek to 
enhance their air travel preferences. 
The traction gained in the  
Continental European private jet  
market has not been as great as 
expected. The market conditions 
remain challenging, reflecting the 
economic conditions in the region,  
but we continue to build our talent  
and skill set in our European private  
jet offices. We are confident that  
the recruitment and steps taken  
to date leave the division well  
placed for the future, as continental 
economies improve. 
 
Commercial Jet Broking
Revenue in the 12 months to  
31 January 2014 increased by  
14% to £148.7m (2013: £130.7m)  
with underlying profit before tax  
38% higher at £2.3m (2013: £1.7m).  
The growth has been driven by excellent 
performances in the UK, US and France, 
resulting from an increased sales 
focus and the development of closer 
relationships with clients. These strong 
results have been achieved despite the 
slowdown of government business.
The recruitment of key individuals into 
the division has had a positive impact, 
strengthening our specialist expertise 
and capabilities in our strategic areas, 
for example in Tour Operating and 
Oil & Gas. Today, we have an even 
better understanding of customers’ 
requirements and have improved  
our ability to provide the bespoke 
solutions our clients require. Tour 
Operating in Europe has delivered 
strong results and has contributed  
35% of the revenue in the division. 
While our established presence in 
Aberdeen and Houston has enabled  
us to gain good traction in the  
Oil & Gas sector and revenue has 
increased by 54%. The team in the 
US carried out several successful 
evacuations, rescuing stranded  
cruise line passengers and also won  
the prestigious programme to fly 
the World Cup Trophy to 90 different 
countries before the World Cup 
tournament starts in Brazil in June. 
The Conference and Incentive market 
remains slow to come out of recovery 
and the sector remains extremely 
competitive with low margins.  Air Partner plc  
Annual Report 2014 11
Strategic report
In conclusion, I am pleased to report 
that the Group has delivered a strong 
performance for the year and continued 
its positive progress against our 
strategic objectives. While the global 
macro environment continues slowly 
to improve, over 50 years’ aviation 
experience reminds us to balance 
optimism with a healthy degree of 
conservatism in our outlook and 
planning.  We are well funded with  
a robust cash balance sheet and  
intend to deliver a growing dividend  
for our shareholders into the 
foreseeable future. This strong  
position enables Air Partner to  
invest in  areas such as new IT , product 
development, recruitment, training, 
brand marketing and in strengthening 
the global office infrastructure.
I would like to thank all of my Air Partner 
colleagues for their hard work and 
commitment through the year.  
Our company is trusted by customers  
to respond quickly and deliver the 
highest standards of service and  
I am proud that we achieve these  
high standards day in, day out.
.
Mark Briffa, CEO
Freight Broking
Although revenue was down by  
26% to £11.7m (2013: £15.9m), 
underlying profit before tax was  
level with the comparable 12 month 
period at £0.2m, due to early 
management of the cost base.  
The lower revenues reflect on-going 
challenging conditions in the freight 
sector, and the comparative period, 
which still included a large government 
contract which ended in March 2012. 
However, over the last 6 months,  
a positive upturn has been seen 
in the market and the level of new 
business has increased. Two significant 
flying programmes were completed; 
delivering humanitarian aid to the 
Philippines and flying equipment  
to the Winter Olympics in Sochi.  
Freight remains a core product  
offering and to support this,  
investment has been made in 
experienced industry specialists  
based in Cologne and Istanbul.  
Progress building new business around 
the Air Partner Time Critical offering 
is being made and this is helping to 
reinforce an improving performance.
