 16 Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2010
   
Chief Executive’s Review
Dear Shareholder,
Against the backdrop of changing times and economic uncertainty, 
Epistem continues to make excellent progress in building itself  
into a globally recognised Drug Discovery and Personalised  
Medicine company.  
The financial results for the Group presented in this announcement 
reflect the results for the Group’s sole trading subsidiary for the year  
to 30 June 2010 and for the comparative period to 30 June 2009. 
Headline progress over the year included:
Year-on-year net sales up 45%. •	
The Company reports its second year of profit growth  •	
and an increase in earnings per share.
Novel Therapies sales increased to £2.4m, £1.4m increase  •	
over the previous year.
 Biomarker sales increased 19% year-on-year and now forms  •	
part of the newly created Personalised Medicine division. 
Development of our new Genedrive •	
TM
 ‘Point of Care’ mobile 
molecular diagnostic device.
 Contract Research sales increased by 10% over the previous year. •	
 A strengthened cash balance of £5.4m and improved trading outlook. •	
Matthew Walls 
Chief Executive 
Officer Review of the Year
Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2010 1 7  
Integrated business model
The Company continues to progress its integrated business  
model, with each division targeting revenue growth and profitability. 
The establishment of independent divisions has created a strong 
portfolio of growing and profitable business units rarely seen in a 
biotechnology business model. Epistem provides a financially robust 
business, whilst offering the potential of significant financial upside 
from our Novel Therapies, Personalised Medicine and Contract 
Research Services divisions. We continue to enhance and exploit our 
integrated core competence in epithelial cell biology, whilst retaining 
commercial independence across each of our divisions. 
Financial review
The Company reports a turnover of £5.7m (2009: £4.0m) for the  
year ended 30 June 2010. Revenues were underpinned by the 
Contract Research Services division, which delivered sales of £2.5m 
(2009: £2.3m) a 10% year-on-year growth. The Biomarker division 
(now forming part of the Personalised Medicine division) saw sales 
marginally increased to £0.8m (2009: £0.7m), with the Novel Therapies 
division reporting increased sales of £2.4m (2009: £1.0m). 
Consolidated territory revenues were split US 79% (63%), EU 14% 
(19%) and UK 7% (18%), the US territory figures continue to be 
strengthened by our US government and Novartis collaborations  
and represents a major growth market for the Company. 
Sales growth in Contract Research Services delivered a 28% increase 
in operating profit of that division, with operating profit up to £0.7m 
(2009: £0.6m). Increased Biomarker sales were partly offset by 
growing investment in our Biomarker and Diagnostics developments 
and the set up of our new US Biomarker operations to record a small 
loss for the year. Novel Therapies reported a significant increase in 
operating profit of £1.0m (2009: Loss £0.2m) driven by a full year’s 
funding of £1.0m from the Novartis collaboration and £1.4m revenue 
recognition from the up-front payment which is being spread over  
the length of the contract. Central administration costs increased by 
£0.2m to £1.3m (2009: £1.1m) primarily due to increased staff costs 
and professional fees. 
The Groups reported profit for the year was £0.3m (2009: £0.1m)  
with headcount in the company now at 51 (2008: 45).
Cash reserves at the end of the year were £5.4m (2008: £3.7m) 
benefiting from improved trading and funding from the November 
2009 £2.9m placing. 
Earnings per share increased to 3.8p per share (2009: 1.1p). 
Clear investor communication of the Company’s strategy and 
performance remains a key element of our success and we will 
continue to strengthen communications as we embark upon  
our next phase of growth. 
The Company’s annual audit was completed in October 2010 by  
HW Chartered Accountants, and their audit report is included  
in the annual accounts.
‘ Divisional growth 
and globally  
leading technology’
2000 2002 2004 2005 2007
Company formation
Company sets up 
Contract Research 
Services group.
Drug discovery
Commencement of 
research into epithelial 
stem cell regulators.
New disease models
Company announces new 
models in inflammatory 
bowel disease.
Fundraising
Epistem closes  
£2.0m fundraising.
LSE: AIM Admission
Successful IPO and AIM 
Admission April 2007 . 18 Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2010
   
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
‘Building shareholder value by providing a high 
margin, diverse and rapidly growing portfolio 
of world class technologies’
2008 2010
Biomarker
Epistem creates new 
Biomarker division.
March
10 year anniversary.
Discovery collaboration
Epistem enters research 
and development 
collaboration with  
Novartis AG.
July
Epistem reports  
2nd year of  
profitable growth.
Placing
Epistem completes  
£2.9m share placing.
2009
Operating review
Contract Research Services
Over the financial year, Contract Research Services delivered a 10% 
year-on-year growth in revenue. Whilst market conditions remained 
challenging, our specialist preclinical services continued to expand  
and develop its business mainly with the larger pharmaceutical/ 
Biotechnology groups. 
Revenue increases were seen in our major US and EU markets, with 
the UK territory now representing the smallest territory in terms of 
revenue generation. Interestingly, only 4 years ago, the UK had been 
our major market. Our mucositis and inflammatory bowel disease 
models showed the greatest gain over the year supported by our new 
assays and technical developments. Our new client relationships and 
aggregate contract values also continued their trend of year-on-year 
increase over the year. 
 
The US National Institutes of Health’s biodefence programme continues 
to make good progress and continues to expand marking a significant 
milestone in our tests for agents which may treat radiation sickness 
following a nuclear incident. We enjoy a business relationship with the 
US biodefence group which is based on many years of close working 
and we expect this to continue over the forthcoming years. 
A solid start to the new financial year and our focus on specialist testing 
of preclinical drug compounds in our core disease areas continues to 
provide an attractive business model from which we anticipate further 
growth over the coming year.
Personalised Medicine 
Following last year’s formation of the Biomarker division, we have  
now expanded our Diagnostic assay developments alongside our 
Biomarker technology to create a new ‘Personalised Medicine’ 
division. The oncology Biomarker business saw continued revenue 
growth over the year and the set up of the new US Biomarker office. 
We anticipate that US business expansion will continue to underpin 
our business development with the division poised to accelerate  
its revenue generation over the coming year. Our hair biomarker 
continues to engage with a growing customer base and provides  
a powerful measure of drug-induced gene expression for use in 
pre-clinical and clinical studies. Use of our technology to identify drug 
induced oncology genes (oncogenes) in molecular pathways is driven 
by the regulatory authority requirements to show that developmental 
drugs are effectively targeting these oncogenes. Our highly sensitive 
amplification technology, RNA-Amp
TM
 which underpins our Biomarker 
technology has also recently been launched in a simple  
to use kit form. 
We are also unveiling our new Genedrive
TM
 ‘Point Of Care’ (POC) 
molecular diagnostic device for ‘on the spot’ patient diagnosis. 
Genedrive
TM
 is a unique, mobile and proprietary electronic device 
which targets a rapid molecular diagnostic assessment (sub 30 mins) 
for use in clinics, hospitals, surgeries as well as lending itself to  
OTC opportunities. The device is expected to have other marketing 
opportunities in veterinary, food and industrial use. We expect the 
device to bring a new ‘standard of care’ to the rapid diagnosis of 
pathogens and other molecular diseases.    
Whilst technical and development risks may still arise around each  
of our platforms, over time these continue to reduce. Validation of  
the new Genedrive
TM
 system is now underway, with beta site clinical 
testing expected to start towards the end of this year with the launch 
of the device anticipated in the first half of next year. 
The Personalised Medicine market is forecast to grow considerably 
over the next few years driven by effective patient treatment, 
increasing regulatory requirements and patient specific drug 
development and our platform technologies are well positioned  
to capitalise on this market growth.
  Review of the Year
Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2010 1 9  
Novel Therapies
The Novel Therapies collaboration with Novartis is now in its second 
year and we are seeing the emergence of the first hits/leads from  
the Regenerative Medicine programme. Whilst these hits/leads  
are still at the discovery stage, the core cell biology and signalling 
pathways which regulate the cell/stem cell are becoming clearer and 
better understood as we identify which genes and pathways regulate 
specific characteristics of the cell. Our relationship with Novartis 
remains strong and we will be advancing each of our hit/leads under 
the collaboration over the coming year as we move into the next 
phase of development. Despite our confidence in the collaboration 
programme, the timing of potential licenses and future funding 
remains difficult to judge with accuracy. With the first phase of the 
discovery collaboration now nearing completion, discussions around 
the second phase of hit/lead development and future licensing/ 
funding will continue into next year. 
Aside from the Novartis collaboration, we have also commenced  
a focused small molecule programme to establish our own proprietary 
agents which regulate the signalling pathways and biology of the  
cell. This will allow us to develop our own drug leads and reinforce  
our lead position in the regulation of epithelial cells and stem cells, 
focused in the disease areas of regenerative medicine and oncology.  
We will continue to evaluate our other drug discovery and development 
opportunities with the major industry players over the forthcoming 
year to identify new lead developments and to expand our discovery 
and early stage development platform. 
Current trading and outlook
Epistem continues to diversify its portfolio of business opportunities 
and strengthen its technology whilst maintaining profitable and 
sustainable growth. The past year has seen further strong operational 
and financial development across each of our divisions with each 
division developing its own independent strategy for growth. 
Trading in the first three months of the new financial year continues 
strong with revenues 15% ahead of the comparative period last year. 
The next phase of Epistem growth will continue to strengthen and 
build on each of our divisional operations. We continue to supplement 
our management team with world class, innovative individuals who  
fit with the culture and dynamism of the Company. We will also build 
on our corporate and board strength and supplement our scientific 
advisory board and advisory committees as appropriate.
Our shareholder interest and support remains strong and we will 
ensure that our ongoing investor communications continue to grow 
this relationship. 
A strengthening operational and financial position confirms our  
belief that the year ahead will continue to generate substantial 
increases in our forecast revenues and growth ambitions. We remain 
selective in considering complementary technology, acquisitions  
and in-licensing, with few opportunities thus far meeting our high 
expectations. We continue to remain vigilant in our outlook in these 
uncertain times. 
Our ambition remains firmly fixed on building shareholder value  
by providing a high margin, diverse and rapidly growing portfolio  
of world class technologies. 
I would like to thank the Board, management and employees for their 
outstanding performance over the past year. I would also like to thank 
our investors for their continued close support and interest in our 
exciting and rapidly growing Company. 
Matthew H Walls
Chief Executive Officer
5 October 2010
