 14 Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2010
   
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder, 
I am delighted to report significant growth and ongoing improvement 
in Epistem’s results for the year ended 30 June 2010. 
Whilst market and trading conditions have remained volatile, the 
Company continues to invest in and strengthen its foundations  
and enjoyed a further exceptional year in difficult times.
Results 
Further details of the results for the period are covered in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s review, but operationally and financially the year  
to 30 June 2010 saw the Company increase revenues by 45% to 
£5.7m (2009: £4.0m) with a Group profit on ordinary activities before 
taxation of £0.4m (2009: Loss £0.7m). Based on this improved trading 
performance the Company generated an after tax profit of £0.3m 
(2009: £0.1m). Cash reserves at the end of the period were £5.4m 
(2009: £3.7m). 
David Evans  
Non-executive 
Chairman Review of the Year
Epistem Holdings Plc Annual Report 2010 1 5  
‘ Strengthening 
foundations in 
preparation for 
continued growth’
During the year the Company continued to make significant progress 
across each of its divisions: 
Contract Research Services revenues grew by 10% to £2.5m •	
(2009: £2.3m). The extension of our service offerings and 
continued expansion of our US government bio-defence contract 
enabled the division to deliver a solid performance over the year. 
With market uncertainties still persisting, the division continues  
to build on its core scientific strengths to provide a firm platform  
for future growth. 
Biomarker revenue growth was marginally increased over the year •	
at £0.8m (2009: £0.7m), though this masked the significant effort 
underway to position the division for future growth. As part of our 
growth strategy to continue to develop this arm of the business 
whether through the addition of new technologies or through 
M&A, we are today announcing the creation of our Personalised 
Medicine division which expands on our Biomarker technology to 
provide a newly created ‘Point Of Care’ offering and the unveiling 
of our ‘on the spot’ molecular diagnostic platform Genedrive
TM
.   
The Novel Therapies division research and development •	
collaboration with Swiss based Novartis AG continued to develop 
over the year with the division reporting its first full year revenue of 
£2.4m (2009: £1.0m). New drug targets are continuing to emerge, 
with the Novel Therapies division positioning itself to create a 
pipeline of early stage development targets. The timings of license 
opportunities and future development funding though remains 
difficult to accurately predict. 
Strengthened investor relations continue to advance the visibility  •	
of the Company, with the £2.9m placing in November 2009 
bringing several new institutional investors to the share register. 
The Company now reports its second year of profits and a growth •	
in its earnings per share to 3.8p (2009: 1.1p).
Outlook
Epistem continues to build on its scientific and technical strengths  
as it transforms into a diverse, technology leading, and profitable 
biotechnology and personalised medicine group underpinned by 
strong revenue growth. Against a backdrop of market uncertainty, 
Epistem remains vigilant, with the outlook for the expanding group 
increasingly positive. 
Despite the tough market conditions, each divisional business is 
establishing itself for growth in its chosen segment. The Contract 
Research Services division buoyed by the expansion and anticipated 
extension of the US biodefence contract is expected to perform well 
over the coming year, with the newly formed Personalised Medicine 
division and its disruptive biomarker and diagnostic technologies 
providing further support for Epistem’s future growth. The Novel 
Therapies drug discovery collaboration with Novartis is nearing 
completion of its first phase, with the emergence of a newly formed 
group of identified hits/leads. Whilst the timing of license and 
development opportunities remains difficult to judge, we remain 
optimistic about the growing strength of our hit/lead programme. 
Epistem continues to refine its discovery and development technology 
to position itself as a world leader in therapeutic discovery in the field 
of epithelial stem cell regulation. With the profile and visibility of each 
of our business divisions increasing, we expect to see the Company 
advance quickly over the coming year. 
I would like to thank the Chief Executive Officer for his leadership  
and navigation of the Company during these difficult times. I would 
also like to thank the Board and our employees for their effort and 
commitment in driving Epistem’s progress over the past year, as well 
as our investors whose valued support has provided a stable platform 
for our continued growth. 
David Evans 
Non-executive Chairman
5 October 2010
