 Epistem Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2013 13
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financials
Operational
Integrated business model
Epistem’s independent Divisions bring together a strong 
and complementary portfolio of business units rarely 
seen in a biotechnology business model. Our strategy is 
focussed on the scientific, technical and financial growth 
of each of our independent Divisions with the potential 
for significant financial gain driven by our investment in 
leading technologies targeted at delivering healthcare 
advances in areas of unmet medical need.
Partnering programme
We work closely with our collaborative partners and 
major industry groups to build on and nurture greater 
collaborative development in conjunction with our 
partners. As our business changes, we expect our 
partners to change and evolve too, but we remain 
committed to developing and enhancing our scientific 
relationships to unlock the potential of our technologies 
and further develop the growth of our Company.
Internationally respected technology and expertise
Our investments in technology and expertise are targeted 
at meeting the aspirations of the market and leading 
international companies in our industry. Our investment 
in technology remains a key mainstay underpinning the 
growth of our Divisions.
Product focus
The development of our first diagnostic product 
Genedrive
®
 within the Company portfolio brings a fresh 
dimension to the Company’s profile and business model. 
Genedrive’s
®
 application across multiple disease areas is 
providing a new growth driver in our integrated business 
model as well as complementing our more established 
technology and service offerings.
Strategic
Strategic Goals Delivery
The launch of our first product Genedrive
®
 will bring a 
new profile to our business, based on globally leading 
technology, high quality and technical reliability. The 
enhancement and recruitment of new scientists and 
operational teams with recognised expertise will be an 
on-going feature of our business in order to enable the 
Company to achieve its growth potential.
Technical reputation
The company’s leading industry presence in epithelial 
stem cells, personalised medicine and disease 
diagnostics will be developed by on-going investment 
in our core technologies of cell and molecular biology.
Financial
The Company will continue to pursue its goal of 
establishing sustainable and growing income streams 
whilst increasing the potential for substantial financial 
growth from its invested technologies.
Investor
We strive to deliver on our Company objectives and 
the realisation of our plans to provide an increasingly 
attractive investment opportunity for both our existing 
and new investors. Substantial and growing income 
streams from our pharmacogenomics and diagnostics 
offering will signal Epistem as a company with significant 
upside potential.
Guiding Principles Epistem Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2013 14
Epistem reports increased investment in its 
diagnostic platform, Genedrive
®
, and in new 
pharmacogenomic and infectious disease 
assays with product launches expected in 2014. 
Revenue generation in Preclinical Services 
and Personalised Medicine remain a key 
cornerstone in the Company’s diversified 
business model.
Strengthening investment 
for future growth
Highlights
£2.5m
2013
£2.7m
2012
£2.9m
2013
£2.9m
2012
£5.4m
2013
£5.6m
2012
Preclinical Research Services 
Revenues
Preclinical Research Services delivered 
£2.9m revenue, as in 2012. Continued 
US NIH growth.
Group Revenues
Overall steady year on year sales 
with continued improvement in 
UK performance.
Personalised Medicine & Novel 
Therapies Revenue
Personalised Medicine Revenue slightly 
reduced in 2013 following rapid growth 
in 2012. Revenue includes £0.4m 
Genedrive
®
 development income 
(2012: £0.4m).
Novel Therapies Revenue produced £nil 
revenue in 2013 (2012: £nil).
