 Epistem Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2013 17
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financials
In addition to gearing up Genedrive
®
 for use in TB and 
infectious diseases, the Division is preparing tests for 
pharmacogenomic analysis including near patient 
clinical management in areas such as cancer 
treatment, Hepatitis C therapeutic intervention and 
‘patient stratification’ for clinical trials. We are also 
pleased to report on the successful completion of our 
first 2 patient stratification clinical studies which we 
expect to see emerge as an exciting area of growth  
for the Company. Further details are set out in the  
Chief Executive’s Review. The reported Personalised 
Medicine revenues for the year included Genedrive
®
 
development income, primarily from our work with the 
US department of defence, of £0.4m (2012: £0.4m). 
•  Our Personalised Medicine Division also recently 
announced the initiation of a three (3) year, Euro 1.5m 
‘Hepatitis C’ collaboration with INSERM and the 
Pasteur Institute for development of ‘Hepatitis C’ (HCV) 
Point-of-Care test. The global need for this test is 
substantial and we will be developing this test as part 
of our expanding menu of infectious disease assays.
•  We are in the final stages of completing our Genedrive
®
 
unit testing and TB assay manufacturing scale up. GE 
Healthcare have commenced scale up of our TB assay 
product and the final phase of the Genedrive
®
 unit 
testing is now underway in preparation for independent 
field testing and our India clinical trials. We anticipate 
sales of Genedrive
®
 in the second half of 2014 which 
will mark the beginning of Epistem’s first product-
related revenues and disrupt traditional methods 
of TB diagnosis by offering the ability to undertake 
‘near patient’ Point-of-Care molecular diagnosis. 
The Board believes that Genedrive
®
 will bring about 
a breakthrough in rapid, high sensitivity and low cost 
molecular (DNA) diagnostic testing across a broad 
range of disease areas. 
•   Novel Therapies’s drug development programme 
continues and we are carefully investing in a limited 
number of leads with the Division reporting nil revenues 
for the year (2012: £0.0m). Collaborative discussions with 
potential partners are ongoing to progress our leads in 
the areas of Regenerative Medicine and Oncology. 
•  Based on the ongoing investment in our Genedrive
®
 
and Novel Therapies programmes, the Company 
reports a loss for the year of £1.2m (2012: £0.2m loss 
for the year) and loss per share of 12.5p (2012: 2.9p 
loss per share).
Outlook
Our key priority in this financial year is to gain approval  
for the launch of Genedrive
®
 into a clinically-regulated 
marketplace whilst continuing its broad menu of 
development in clinical and non-clinical fields.
I remain wholly convinced that through our investors’ 
funding and support we have developed a strategically 
valuable asset of real importance to those operating in 
the field of molecular diagnostics. 
To be able to realise this value we need not only to resolve 
the current technical issues, which I believe are resolvable, 
but to invest further in resource and infrastructure to 
support our future partnerships. We will need to 
demonstrate our ability to scale up production and have 
sufficient depth in management to ensure deliverability 
as we move from the innovation phase to the industrial 
phase – these processes take time and extreme diligence, 
issues of which we are fully aware given the recent BD 
experience. Over the coming months we are targeting the 
following key objectives in relation to Genedrive
®
 and within 
the wider Personalised Medicine group:
•  Entering into the final stages of Indian regulatory 
approval and completion of the TB clinical trial process.
•  Entering Genedrive
®
 into preliminary clinical studies for 
TB as a forerunner to a WHO recommendation.
•  The strengthening of management in Diagnostics with 
the appointment of a domain relevant COO for that 
Division with main Board representation.
•  Progress with the HCV and other core development 
programmes.
•  Progress our discussions with potential pharmaceutical 
partners in relation to the use of Genedrive
®
 for use in 
clinical trials re patient stratification.
We are dedicated to driving the process with Genedrive
®
 so 
that we can crystallise the strategic value of this technology.
Whilst the outlook is naturally dominated by Genedrive
®
, 
I see the continued solid progress in Preclinical 
Research Services and the pharmacogenomics offering 
within Personalised Medicine helping to underpin the 
fundamentals of Epistem and whilst we have scaled back 
our investment into Novel Therapies we continue to 
examine ways in which we can realise the value and 
heritage of this key area.
I would like to thank the CEO for his support and 
leadership, the Board and our employees for their effort 
and commitment in driving Epistem’s progress over the 
past year, as well as our investors whose support has 
provided a stable platform for our continued growth plans. 
David Evans 
Chairman
22 October 2013 Epistem Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2013 18
Chief Executive’s Review
Whilst we continue to develop and strengthen our 
service-based revenue generating businesses, the delays 
around the completed development of our first product 
Genedrive
®
 have weighed heavily on our anticipated 
outturn and market expectations for the year. The 
financial results for the Group presented in this 
announcement reflect the Group’s trading for the year  
to 30 June 2013 and for the comparative period to  
30 June 2012.
Financial review
The Company reports a turnover of £5.4m (2012: £5.6m) 
for the year ended 30 June 2013. Revenues were 
underpinned by the Preclinical Research Services 
Division, which delivered sales of £2.9m (2012: £2.9m). 
The Personalised Medicine Division delivered sales of 
£2.5m (2012: £2.7m), with the Novel Therapies Division 
reporting no sales over the period. 
Consolidated territory revenues were split US 59%  
(2012: 68%), EU/ROW 14% (2012: 19%) and UK 27% 
(2012: 13%). Year-on-year Preclinical Research Services 
sales remained steady delivering a similar year-on-year 
operating profit of £0.8m (2012: £0.8m). Personalised 
Medicine sales were broadly similar to last year, which 
alongside our increased resource and investment in 
Genedrive
®
 saw the Division report an operating loss of 
£0.1m (2012: £0.4m profit) over the year. Novel Therapies, 
investing in its lead development programme, reported an 
operating loss of £0.8m (2012: operating loss £0.8m) with 
central administration costs largely unchanged over the 
year at £1.4m (2012: £1.3m) giving rise to an overall group 
operating loss for the year of £1.5m (2012: loss £0.8m). 
The benefit of a £0.3m R&D and other tax credits saw  
the Group report a loss after tax for the year of £1.2m 
(2012: loss £0.2m) with year-end headcount in the 
Company at 67 (2012: 63).
Continuing innovation and 
new product development
“Our business model continues 
to balance a heritage of service-
based revenue growth with 
emerging new and disruptive 
product technologies capable 
of delivering significant 
investor returns.” Epistem Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2013 19
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financials
Cash balances at the end of June 2013 were £6.5m 
(2012: £4.7m) following the completion of the £4.2m cash 
placing in December 2012. Reported cash reserves at the 
end of June 2013 included the BD upfront technology 
access fee payment of £0.6m, subsequently returned to 
BD on termination of the agreement. Unaudited cash 
reserves at 30 September 2013 were £5.4m. 
Reported loss per share was 12.5p (2012: 2.9p loss 
per share). 
The Company’s annual audit was completed in October 
2013 by HW Chartered Accountants and their audit 
report will be included with the annual accounts which 
are expected to be distributed to shareholders shortly.
Operating review
Preclinical Research Services
Preclinical Research Services delivered a steady year-on-
year revenue performance whilst maintaining a 27% 
operating margin (£0.8m operating profit). The Division 
provides a high margin, niche, preclinical service offering 
across our core disease areas of oncology, mucositis, 
inflammatory bowel disease and dermatology. The year 
saw the initiation of our first rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 
oncology imaging leukaemia models, strong demand for 
our inflammatory bowel disease models and attainment 
of GcLP accreditation for our histology services.
Our collaboration with the US National Institutes of 
Health’s biodefence programme continues to expand  
and accounts for roughly a third of the Division’s 
revenues. We have collaborated as part of this 
programme for over 7 years and provide a role as 
‘Subject Matter Experts’ (SME) in radiation exposure. 
Alongside a broadening client base, we are currently 
preparing to extend our service capability to set up small 
laboratory facility in Baltimore to engage more closely 
with the US government departments and our local  
US East Coast clients. The US government remains 
committed to targeting treatment of radiation sickness 
following a nuclear incident/event. 
Over the coming year, we expect to build on our new 
oncology (imaging) services, RA and inflammation models 
from which we expect to see continued ongoing growth.
Personalised Medicine
Pharmacogenomics 
Following the previous year’s strong uplift in revenues, 
this year’s revenues remained steady at £2.1m  
(2012: £2.3m) underpinned by our molecular studies  
for GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis and Sanofi Aventis.  
These studies utilise Epistem’s proprietary RNA 
amplification technology and oncology (cancer) 
bioinformatics to provide biomarker discovery  
(hair and other tissues) and translational support for 
oncology drug development and fibrosis drug discovery 
programmes. The Pharmacogenomics Division (formerly 
Biomarker Division) works with major pharmaceutical  
and biotech business groups to provide a suite of 
preclinical and clinical pharmacodynamic biomarkers  
to measure the effect of a drug on targeted tissue  
(gene activated pathways). Our expertise in defining  
the consequences of gene target modulation in  
epithelial tissue continues to advance, with the  
addition of several key oncology target signatures over 
the past year as well as being utilised in key target 
identification programmes with business partners. 
We are now beginning to implement our 
pharmacogenomics Genedrive
®
 applications with  
major pharmaceutical strategic partners. We are  
working closely with Novartis on the clinical expansion  
of our oncogene identification from whole blood for 
myeloproliferative disorders and with GlaxoSmithKline 
for the rapid assessment of genotypes for ‘patient 
stratification’ for therapeutic treatment. During the  
year we successfully completed 2 Genedrive
®
 clinical 
assessments for ‘on the spot’ stratification of patients 
based on their genotypic characteristics. The 
identification of genotypic and/or target mutations  
will allow patients to be ‘stratified’ for ‘Point of Care’ 
administration of the correct course of ‘personalised’ 
therapeutic treatment. Over the coming year we will 
continue our work developing Genedrive
®
 for use as 
a highly sensitive screening tool for identification and 
monitoring of the presence of mutation targets in blood. 
The broadening adoption of Genedrive
®
 for use in 
pharmacogenomics applications is anticipated to present 
additional revenue generating opportunities over the 
coming year.  Epistem Holdings Plc  Annual Report 2013 20
We have also recently announced a Euro1.5m, three (3) 
year collaboration with INSERM the French National 
Institute of Health and Medical Research, starting from 
September 2013, to develop a Point-of-Care predictive 
and prognostic test that will enable tangible 
improvements in the health and quality of life of chronic 
hepatitis C (HCV) patients. Technical completion of the 
assay is scheduled for mid way through 2014 with an 
expected launch in 2015. Alongside retaining full freedom 
to operate for our HCV test, we will be seeking strategic 
partnerships with non-governmental organisations, 
national health and development agencies. Between 
150 and 180 million people live with HCV infection globally 
and together with HBV infection – these infections cause 
around 1 million deaths each year. 
Diagnostics
Genedrive
®
 is a novel, disruptive and highly sensitive 
molecular diagnostic tool with the capability of targeting 
a near patient, low cost and rapid turnaround diagnosis 
(30-60mins including sample preparation) across a broad 
spectrum of bacterial, viral, fungal and somatic mutational 
disease areas. We expect to see molecular diagnostics 
begin to dominate the next generation of diagnostic testing 
and to change the speed, accuracy and workflows in near 
patient ’Point of Care’ assessment. Over the coming year, 
we intend to accelerate our product developments through 
increased investment in our manpower resource and 
expertise, enhance our manufacturing and regulatory 
control and further develop our channel partner distribution 
strategy to take advantage of the substantial growth 
opportunities open to us. 
Despite the recent setback with the Becton Dickinson 
agreement, we are focused on finalising our core 
Genedrive
®
 developments with the objective of promptly 
gaining Indian regulatory approval and the launch of our first 
major infectious disease assay in Tuberculosis (TB). During 
the year we worked closely with the Xcelris and Becton 
Dickinson teams to prepare our first product for market. 
Unfortunately we have experienced assay manufacturing 
delays and more recently Genedrive
®
 unit technical 
problems, which are being resolved and are undergoing 
final phase validation. The assay manufacturing delays were 
in relation to scale up of manufactured product, which after 
a detailed and thorough assessment of the manufacturing 
process with GE Healthcare has yielded a product which  
is operating consistently under analytical, clinical and  
field testing conditions. More recently, we identified unit 
problems related to firmware and software arising from  
our internal stress testing of the unit. We are carefully and 
diligently working through these identified problems to 
ensure that verification and validation of our unit is assured. 
This has delayed our final submission for Indian regulatory 
approval which we anticipate in H1 2014.
We maintain an ongoing dialogue with Becton Dickinson 
and we will be extending our discussions with other 
potential partners as appropriate. The Xcelris Indian 
commercial collaboration alone (supply and distribution 
arrangement in Tuberculosis) includes escalating annual 
volume requirements for units and assays is capable of 
delivering significant revenues to Epistem over the next 
3-5 years from H2 2014 which is when we expect to 
commence commercial sales. TB represents our first 
significant revenue prospect and the initial opportunity to 
see the application of our Genedrive
®
 platform used both 
inside and outside laboratory settings enabling ‘near 
patient’ testing or testing in remote field locations. 
Over the past year, we have designed a TB assay capable 
of establishing a new standard in antibiotic resistance 
testing. The assay possesses several important technical 
advantages over competitor products and coupled with 
an industry leading speed to result, ease of use and 
pricing, will we believe deliver a highly competitive 
product to market. We are also working with the 
Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND, 
Geneva) to build our case for WHO recommendation 
of our TB assay. Over the coming months we will be 
publishing our first clinical data on our TB test and how 
this compares to the industry leaders in addressing the 
US$1bn TB diagnostics market.
We are advancing our assay development across a range 
of other infectious diseases, with tests under development 
in malaria, dengue and a range of sexually transmitted 
diseases. We expect to supply and distribute these high 
volume tests through our channel partner strategy. 
Alongside healthcare applications, we continue to see 
opportunities for the use of Genedrive
®
 for biosurveillance 
and forensic targets. We are working closely with the  
US government on a number of programmes to identify 
biothreats and infectious diseases in military settings. 
We are preparing to continue to the next phase of our US 
Government contract with the Defence Threat Reduction 
Agency (DTRA) for pathogen detection. This has been 
recently delayed due to the US government budgetary 
issues, but is anticipated to generate up to USD$0.6m 
in development funding over the next 6 months and if 
successful, extend into broader US Department of 
Defence use. We anticipate further growth in the US 
Department of Defence areas over the coming year. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
