 05 Ergomed plc Annual Report 2014
Strategic
Governance
Financial information
Chief Executive Officer’s review
2014 has been a transformational year 
for Ergomed, and we are excited by the 
continued prospects for growth for our 
business as outlined at the IPO on the 
AIM market in July 2014.
The Group had a successful year with a 
total of £26.8 million of contracts won in 
2014, a 40% increase on 2013, reflecting 
a strong demand across all divisions  
and Ergomed’s well-established market 
position.
The 2014 contract wins included several 
multi-million pound full service Phase II 
and Phase III studies and full service 
pharmacovigilance services to late stage 
biotech and pharma companies. The 
majority of these contracts are already 
in process and are scheduled to be 
completed over the next few years. 
Ergomed ended 2014 with a total 
backlog of contracted work from all its 
business segments with a value to be 
invoiced in the future of approximately 
£60.0 million. This strong close to the 
year has been driven by the continued 
recognition of the benefits of Ergomed’s 
approach to drug development,  
co-development and drug safety services 
from new and existing partners.
Global demand for quality drug 
development services remains strong 
and Ergomed is benefiting from this 
demand. In addition, the fundraising 
environment for biotech in the US and 
EU will increase the need for clinical 
trial related services. Ergomed has 
significant experience of working with 
such biotech and pharmaceutical 
companies and has a track record of 
being able to tailor its full service 
capability to meet clients’ particular 
requirements. Ergomed is also in  
the unique position of offering  
co-development partnerships and is 
committed to building its portfolio of 
co-development assets and delivering 
significant clinical data, thereby creating 
shareholder value in the next few years.
The Board was very pleased to acquire 
PrimeVigilance at the time of the IPO. 
PrimeVigilance is a fast growing 
business with a strong brand in its 
sector. Its specialisation in marketed 
drug safety services broadens the 
overall Ergomed offering. While 
Ergomed is principally R&D focused, 
PrimeVigilance typically targets 
companies marketing pharmaceutical 
and/or generic drugs. There is also the 
potential for synergy and cross selling 
between the two companies through 
their well-established business 
development networks.
2014 has been a 
transformational year 
for Ergomed, and we 
are excited by the 
continued prospects  
for growth for our 
business as outlined  
at the IPO on the AIM 
market in July 2014.
Dr Miroslav Reljanovic 
Chief Executive Officer About Ergomed
About PrimeVigilance
06 Ergomed plc Annual Report 2014
www.ergomedplc.com
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
37
%
Revenue growth from 2013 to 2014.
+140
Over 140 employees, most of whom are medics, 
pharmacists or life science graduates.
Ergomed plc has two complementary 
businesses:
(1) The Services Business – a well-
established clinical research business 
providing services to the pharmaceutical 
and biotechnology industry; and
(2) The Co-Development Business – a 
growing portfolio of partnerships with 
pharmaceutical and biotech companies, 
providing its drug development services 
in exchange for a carried interest in any 
revenues attributable to the drug asset, 
including outlicensing milestones as well 
as sales of the product.
Since its formation, Ergomed plc has 
been providing expertise in clinical 
development/trial management from  
PrimeVigilance is a Pharmacovigilance 
(PV) and Medical Information Services 
company with an established international 
footprint and a heritage of excellence  
and leadership in the field of 
pharmacovigilance.
PrimeVigilance was established in 2008 
and offers a comprehensive, top quality, 
cost-effective, innovative safety services 
and medical information services for 
pharmaceutical, generic and 
biotechnology companies. 
the largest pharmaceutical companies, as 
well as many small and mid-sized drug 
development companies. Ergomed plc 
successfully manages clinical 
development from Phase I through to late 
phase programmes.
Ergomed plc has a wide therapeutic focus, 
but has particular expertise in oncology, 
neurology and immunology and the 
development of orphan drugs. Ergomed 
plc believes its approach to clinical trials is 
differentiated from that of other providers 
by its innovative Study Site Management 
model and the use of Study Physician 
Teams, resulting in a close relationship 
between Ergomed plc and the 
investigational sites involved in clinical 
trials. As well as providing high quality 
clinical development services,  
Ergomed plc is building a portfolio of 
co-development partnerships with  
pharma and biotech companies which 
share the risks and rewards of drug 
development. Ergomed plc leverages its 
expertise and services in return for 
carried interest in the drugs under 
development.
The Company has planned, managed, 
monitored and reported clinical trials 
with a range of technologies that include 
small molecule drugs, monoclonal 
antibodies, tri-functional antibodies, 
soluble receptors and other targeted 
agents, cancer vaccines and 
immunotherapy, radioactive agents and 
photodynamic therapies.
Expert pharmacovigilance services
The pharmacovigilance services offered by 
PrimeVigilance cover all the regulatory 
and scientific elements of PV required to 
obtain and maintain a product licence 
within Europe: Qualified Person, Risk 
Management Planning (RMP), and a 
compliant PV System with consistent 
Adverse Event data capture, robust Quality 
Management, expedited reporting, 
preparation of PSURs, literature 
screening, signal detection and evaluation, 
benefit-risk assessment, compliance 
auditing, support during crisis and various 
ad hoc assignments. PrimeVigilance also 
offers fully integrated international 
Medical Information service.
PrimeVigilance specialises in helping 
emerging companies comply with 
regulations, from developing the initial 
Detailed Description of PV System and 
RMP to full management of safety 
operations.
A global reach
PrimeVigilance has grown organically 
since 2008 and now has over 140 staff 
employed in its main offices in Guildford, 
UK, and Zagreb, Croatia. PrimeVigilance  
is currently providing services across  
100 countries.
“ 
During the past months we have seen very rapid increases in the rate 
of enrolment in this study… due to the addition of new centres and the 
intense site support by our clinical research partner Ergomed…
”
Co-development partner’s CEO comment. May 2014
PrimeVigilance received  the Queen’s Award for 
Enterprise Recognition of Substantial Growth 
and Commercial Success in April 2014. 07 Ergomed plc Annual Report 2014
Strategic
Governance
Financial information
In line with its strategy to expand 
through organic growth and acquisitions, 
Ergomed announced the opening of a 
new office in Taiwan in March 2015 – its 
first office in Asia. The new subsidiary 
company in Taipei will act as a hub for 
business activity across the country and 
the wider Asian market, ensuring 
Ergomed is best placed to support 
existing and new clients with business 
interests in the region. The Taiwan 
operations will be led by Executive 
Director of Global Clinical Operations,  
Dr Sy-Shi Wang. Born in Taiwan and now 
a US citizen, Dr Wang brings extensive 
international experience.
The Ergomed co-development model
Ergomed’s four late stage co-development 
partnerships progressed well in 2014. 
Under these agreements, Ergomed is 
contributing to the cost of the clinical 
trials and in return will receive a share 
of any proceeds generated from the 
commercialisation of the partnered  
drug asset.
Ergomed has the potential to receive 
over $100 million in its share of future 
revenues from the three ongoing 
co-development deals it has in oncology 
with three different US listed 
biotechnology companies. The actual 
revenues that will be generated are 
dependent on the projects’ future clinical 
results and also their subsequent 
commercialisation by our partners.
In January 2014, Ergomed signed a 
co-development agreement with Ferrer 
for a Phase II study in insomnia which is 
ready to start in H1 2015. Additionally, 
Ergomed’s co-development partner 
Aeterna Zentaris signed a Master 
Collaboration Agreement for zoptarelin 
doxorubicin in China with Sinopharm 
A-Think in December 2014, triggering a 
payment to Ergomed of a single digit 
percentage of any net income from  
this China deal under the AEZS  
co-development agreement.
Co-development portfolio
Current portfolio of co-development projects that share risks/rewards:
n Indicates Ergomed 
co-development 
investment phase
Co-development Phase 1 Phase II Phase III Results
Ferrer 
Lorediplon
Insomnia Results 2016
Synta Pharma 
Ganetespib
NSLC Phase III Results 2016
Aeterna Zentaris 
EZS 108
Endometrial Cancer Results 2016
Cel-Sci 
Multikine
®
Head & Neck Cancer Results 2018
Cel-Sci 
Multikine
®
Peri-anal warts in HIV/HPV Results TBC
Dilaforette 
Sevuparin
Sickle-Cell Disease Results TBC
Targeting two new deals per year
Ergomed and 
PrimeVigilance target  
a wide range of 
international healthcare 
clients – biotech, 
pharma and generics. 08 Ergomed plc Annual Report 2014
www.ergomedplc.com
Ergomed continues to advance its 
leading co-development model and  
in February 2015 signed its fifth  
co-development agreement, and first 
co-development agreement in orphan 
drug development, with Dilaforette  
for Phase II clinical development of 
sevuparin in patients with Sickle-Cell 
Disease (SCD) experiencing  
acute Vaso-Occlusive Crisis (VOC). 
Ergomed will co-invest a proportion of 
its revenues from the clinical and 
regulatory activities of the trial in return 
for an equity stake in Dilaforette.
The status of Ergomed’s current 
partnerships is summarised below.
CEL-SCI (NYSE MKT: CVM): 
Ergomed is working with CEL -SCI on the 
largest ever Phase III study in head and 
neck cancer with lead product 
Multikine
®
. The trial will enrol 
approximately 880 patients with 
advanced primary head and neck cancer. 
CEL -SCI recently announced that a total 
of 252 patients had been enrolled, 
representing over one quarter of the 
total enrolment for the study. Four 
clinical sites in the US have been added 
and the trial is currently being expanded 
to the UK, Austria, Sri Lanka, Turkey and 
France. Ergomed and CEL -SCI have also 
agreed to commence Phase I studies in 
the additional indication of peri-anal 
warts in HIV/HPV co-infected patients 
and have commenced planning for a 
Phase II study in cervical dysplasia in 
HIV/HPV co-infected patients.
Synta Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: SNTA): 
Ergomed is in a co-development 
partnership on Synta’s lead development 
candidate, ganetespib, in clinical studies 
for a number of cancer indications. Synta 
reported final results from the global, 
randomised, multi-centre Phase IIb 
GALAXY-1 study in advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
adenocarcinoma in May 2014. Final 
results from this trial, in particular 
encouraging overall survival results and 
tolerability profile in chemosensitive 
patients, supports the selection of the 
chemosensitive population for the 
pivotal Phase III GALAXY-2 study. Synta’s 
pivotal Phase III GALAXY-2 study of 
ganetespib and docetaxel vs. docetaxel 
alone for the 2nd line treatment of 
patients with NSCLC adenocarcinoma 
remains on track to meet previously 
guided data readout timelines in H2 2015 
and the final analysis to be conducted in 
2016. In July 2014, Synta announced the 
advancement of ganetespib into a Phase 
III extension of the AML LI-1 (less 
intensive) study in newly diagnosed 
elderly patients with acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML) or high-risk 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) who 
are not eligible for intensive 
chemotherapy. In addition, Synta has 
recently announced that enrolment has 
begun in the Phase I safety portion of the 
GANNET53 study in ovarian cancer.
Aeterna Zentaris Inc. (NASDAQ: AEZS; 
TSX: AEZ): 
Ergomed is working with Aeterna 
Zentaris on the Phase III pivotal study 
comparing zoptaerlin doxorubicin 
(“ZoptEC” study) as second line therapy 
for locally-advanced, recurrent or 
metastatic endometrial cancer. The 
ZoptEC study is being conducted over 
120 sites in North America, Europe, 
Israel and other countries under a 
Special Protocol Assessment. Site 
initiation is complete and patient 
recruitment is on track with over 400 of 
the expected 500 patients entered into 
the study. The primary efficacy endpoint 
is improvement in median overall 
survival. The ZoptEC study is on track to 
reach the number of patients required to 
secure the first interim analysis in the 
H1 2015, and patient recruitment should 
be completed by year-end.
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Ergomed’s  
co-development 
partnerships are  
on plan to deliver 
important Phase III and 
Phase II data in 2016. 09 Ergomed plc Annual Report 2014
Strategic
Governance
Financial information
Ferrer: 
Ergomed has partnered with Ferrer on 
Lorediplon which is a novel, longer 
acting non-BZD hypnotic drug that 
modulates the GABAa receptor. 
Compared to other non-BZD receptor 
agonists (such as zolpidem), Lorediplon 
has demonstrated in preclinical and 
clinical studies a potent hypnotic profile 
and extended systemic half-life, 
properties that could confer potential 
clinical benefits in terms of sleep 
maintenance and sleep architecture. 
Ergomed is on track to start the Phase II 
study in insomnia with first patient to be 
dosed in H1 2015. Site selection and 
initiation has commenced and the study 
is on track.
Dilaforette: 
Ergomed is working with Dilaforette on 
the Phase II study of sevuparin in 
patients with Sickle-Cell Disease (SCD) 
experiencing acute Vaso-Occlusive 
Crisis (VOC). Dilaforette was granted 
Orphan Drug Designation by the US Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) for 
sevuparin in SCD in March 2015. The 
study is planned to start in H2 2015. 
Dilaforette is part of the Karolinska 
Development AB (STO: KDEV, 
‘Karolinska Development’) portfolio.
Dr Miroslav Reljanovic
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive 
Officer Q&A
Q. What are Ergomed’s unique  
selling points? 
A. Ergomed was founded by Dr Miroslav 
Reljanovic, a hospital neurologist 
participating in clinical research who 
identified a need for more efficiently 
run clinical studies. Ergomed’s 
operational approach was 
established from the start to ensure 
that the crucial role of the hospital 
investigator in a clinical study is 
supported by a better administrative 
structure in order to deliver higher 
quality and efficiency, and ensure that 
key timelines are met. Ergomed does 
this through its unique Study Site 
Management System and Study 
Physician Team.
Q. How does Ergomed carry out clinical 
studies across the world? 
A. Ergomed has many well established 
offices staffed with its own employees 
and is also expanding into new 
territories led by customer demand. 
An example of this is Taiwan where 
Ergomed’s new office will act as a 
hub for business activity across the 
country and the wider Asian market. 
Ergomed also has a network of 
sub-contractors who can support its 
own employees in running studies in 
countries where Ergomed currently 
does not have an office, for example 
in South America.
Q. What is Ergomed’s co-development 
business? 
A. Ergomed believes that having a share 
in the commercialisation potential  
of drug assets could potentially 
generate significant cash inflows and 
a higher valuation from Ergomed’s 
broad expertise in drug development. 
This is in addition to the value 
generated by the growing full  
service businesses.
Q. How does Ergomed select  
co-development projects? 
A. Ergomed has established a due 
diligence team of in-house and 
external consultant experts who can 
review potential co-development 
projects and also negotiate the 
partnership agreements.
 
Q. When will Ergomed receive 
significant revenues from its 
co-development portfolio? 
A. Ergomed expects significant clinical 
data to be announced in 2016 from 
two Phase III and one Phase II 
co-development partnership. If these 
studies are successful, it is possible 
that Ergomed’s partners will then 
commercialise the assets generating 
revenues from which Ergomed will 
get paid its due share from the 
co-development agreement.
Q. Why is PrimeVigilance a good addition 
to the Ergomed group? 
A. PrimeVigilance focuses on supplying 
safety services to companies selling 
drugs across the world. This is an 
additional market to Ergomed’s 
traditional focus on clinical drug 
development and diversifies the risk of 
focusing solely on drug development 
spend. PrimeVigilance is fast growing 
as it is benefitting from increased 
international regulations and a trend 
for outsourcing.
Q. What is Ergomed’s long term 
strategy? 
A. The Ergomed Board plans to build a 
global company that has a strong, 
profitable services business  
focused on drug development and  
post-marketing services such as 
pharmacovigilance. At the same time 
Ergomed is building a portfolio  
of selected co-development 
partnerships that leverage its drug 
development expertise and have the 
potential to add significant income 
and shareholder value as the 
successful co-development assets 
are commercialised.
