 Essar Energy plc Annual report + accounts 2010
04
2010 
was a year that presented 
a mix of challenges 
and achievements. Despite ongoing 
uncertainty across the global economy, 
Essar Energy, with its focus on 
India, was able to deliver a strong 
operating and financial performance.
f inancial results
Our continuing focus on the stated 
strategy has resulted in a profit before 
tax for the year of US$365.5 million 
and operating cash flow of US$652.7 
million. We remain on track to have in 
place 11,470 MW of power generation 
capacity by the end of 2014, subject 
to securing fuel for the projects under 
development, and to upgrade our 
refinery to 20 million tonnes per annum 
capacity with a complexity of 11.8 by 
September 2012. This is in line with 
the plans that we announced at the 
time of our initial public offering. 
o perations
Across the portfolio we saw a 
strong operating performance with 
good availability from our power 
plants and another year of record 
production from our Vadinar refinery.
Despite strong power plant availability, 
our generation was lower than 
planned due to high rainfall during 
the monsoon season and high gas 
prices. However, the financial impact 
of this lower generation is largely 
mitigated by the structure of our power 
purchase agreements where payments 
are primarily based on availability. In 
October, the first unit of our 380 MW, 
Vadinar P1 gas fired power plant 
synchronised with the grid, the first to 
do so since our Listing in May 2010.
The Vadinar refinery continues to 
perform well and set records for 
production and throughput in each 
quarter of the year. Total throughput 
for the year was 14.7 million tonnes of 
crude, well above the refinery’s name 
plate capacity of 10.5 million tonnes 
per annum. In total, we processed 
20 different crudes during the year 
including Mangala, our first domestic 
crude, being delivered through a 
590km heated pipeline from Rajasthan, 
which is in the north of India.
June saw the de-regulation of gasoline 
prices in India which enabled us to 
compete on a level playing field with 
the public sector retailers. The result 
was an increase in the sales and 
profitability of gasoline from our near 
1,400 retail fuel outlets across India. 
Despite this, increasing oil prices 
have pushed up the price of gasoil, 
delaying the government’s plans to 
de-regulate gasoil which accounts 
for around 80% of our retail sales. 
We continue to plan for 1,700 retail 
fuel outlets across India by April 2011, 
but are likely to slow down our plans 
beyond this time until the path to the 
de-regulation of gasoil becomes clear.
Growth projects
We continue to execute well against our 
significant pipeline of growth projects. 
In total we invested US$2,957 .9 
million across our power and oil 
and gas projects during the year.
In Power, we are currently investing 
in ten power projects and one 
transmission project with a combined 
capital cost of US$2,856.2 million. 
Six of these projects were under 
construction at the time of the IPO, 
but proceeds from the Listing have 
facilitated the movement of four 
projects with a combined capacity 
c hief executive’s report
“We continue to 
execute well against 
our significant pipeline 
of growth projects.”
Delivering  strong results Essar Energy plc Annual report + accounts 2010
company overview business review Governance financial statements
05
of 3,570 MW from the development 
to the construction phase.
2011 is a critical year for our power 
business as 2,910 MW of new capacity 
is planned to enter commercial 
operations during the year. This new 
capacity will significantly increase 
the cash flow and profitability of the 
business and remove the construction 
risk from these projects. One 
downside risk continues to be the 
delay in receipt of forest approvals 
for coal mines which is holding up 
our captive mine development.
In our Exploration and Production 
business, we are extremely pleased 
with progress at our Raniganj Coal 
Bed Methane project. At the end of 
the year we had drilled 49 production 
wells with 19 producing gas. As each 
new well is drilled, our knowledge of 
the field improves and we are confident 
of reaching our peak production of 
3.5 mmscm/day by 2014. However 
progress on the production sharing 
contract for our Ratna/R Series field 
has been slower than expected.
In Refining, the phase 1 of our Vadinar 
expansion is progressing well and 
is more than 84% complete as of 
end February 2011. We expect the 
expansion to reach mechanical 
completion by the middle of 2011 and 
enter commercial production during the 
second half of 2011. The importance 
of this expansion is the increase in 
complexity from 6.1 to 11.8. This will 
allow us to process a higher proportion 
of heavy and ultra-heavy crudes and 
produce more high value products. 
We expect this to result in an increase 
in the profitability of the refinery.
During the year we also identified 
an opportunity to further increase 
the capacity of the refinery to 20 
mmtpa at a very competitive capital 
cost. This optimisation project has 
already commenced and is on track 
to complete by September 2012. Post 
our expansion, Essar Energy will be in 
a situation where it will need to export 
a higher proportion of high value 
products in the short to medium term, 
particularly gasoline and gasoil. The 
natural markets for these products are 
Europe and the US and, in line with 
this, we announced in February an 
offer to purchase the Stanlow refinery 
in the UK for US$350 million. The 
European refining industry is facing 
a number of challenges as existing 
facilities age and need to be upgraded 
to meet new fuel specifications. Given 
Stanlow’s scale and high complexity, 
we believe that Stanlow will be a 
survivor in this market and under the 
right ownership it will thrive and prosper. 
We believe that Stanlow will be a 
valuable addition to the Essar Energy 
portfolio and that this acquisition is 
fully aligned with our stated strategy.
Health and safety
A true measure of success is enabling 
our employees to operate in a healthy 
and safe working environment. I 
am pleased with the way that our 
employees have embraced our values in 
this area and our performance has been 
recognised externally with the award for 
the Vadinar refinery of the Gujarat Safety 
Council’s winner’s shield for the lowest 
disability injury index in 2009. Also, the 
Vadinar refinery and the Bhander Power 
plant at Hazira have received Integrated 
Management systems certifications 
from the British Standards Institution 
after earning both ISO9001/14001 
and OHSAS 18001 certification. 
Unfortunately, the performance at our 
under construction projects has been 
below expectations and is an area of 
particular focus for improvement. The 
health and safety of our employees and 
the communities where we operate 
is a priority for our Company and is 
important to me personally as well as 
the whole senior management team.
Looking forward, our Company has a 
clear strategy for creating value, using 
prudent decision making and focused 
on the Indian energy growth story. At 
Essar Energy, we have had a good 
first year and I hope to build on our 
achievements to deliver our full potential.
n aresh n ayyar
Chief Executive 
18 March 2011
Delivering  strong results
Key milestones
 april 2010
Essar Energy acquires Aries 
coal mines in Indonesia, 
comprising 64 mmt of 
mineable reserves
 June 2010
Essar Energy receives first 
Mangala crude to Vadinar 
refinery, through a dedicated 
heated and insulated pipeline 
from the oil fields in Rajasthan
 o ctober 2010
Unit #1 of Vadinar P1 power 
station synchronises with the 
grid, the first to do so since the 
IPO of Essar Energy in May 2010
 n ovember 2010
Essar Energy announces 
optimisation project to take 
Vadinar refinery capacity to 
20 mmtpa, to be completed 
by September 2012
 n ovember 2010
Four power projects with a 
combined capacity of 3,570 
MW moved to construction 
phase, taking power capacity 
under construction to 8,070 MW
