 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
Company overview
04
Chairman’s statement
“If India is to meet its 12th 
Five Year Plan target of 
9% GDP growth each 
year from 2012 to 201 7 , 
then this will require 
energy supplies to grow at 
a rate of between 6.5% 
and 7% per year, which is 
above the rates of the last 
ﬁve years.”
Introduction
Welcome to Essar Energy’s annual 
report for 2011–12. Following on from  
a positive ﬁrst year as a listed company 
in 2010, the 2011–12 period has been 
more mixed. In some areas we have 
made excellent progress, notably in  
our oil business with the completion  
in March this year of the phase 1 
expansion of our ﬂagship Vadinar 
reﬁnery, which is now a world class 
plant producing high value fuels to 
international and Indian speciﬁcations. 
However, there have also been a 
number of challenges, particularly 
in the Indian power sector.
Essar Energy and other power 
companies across India have been 
impacted by delays in obtaining 
regulatory approvals, particularly in 
relation to approvals for coal blocks. 
Furthermore, near the end of the 
ﬁnancial period, Essar Oil was also 
affected by the loss of the Gujarat 
deferred sales tax case in the Indian 
Supreme Court. These factors coupled 
with a highly volatile market led to a 
sharp fall of the share price in the 
March 2012 ﬁnancial period.  Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
COMPANY
OVERVIEW
BUSINESS
REVIEW GOVERNAN C E
FINANCIA L
STATEMENT S
05
Despite this, including the ongoing 
challenges surrounding sales tax we 
are looking forward with a positive 
outlook and are ready to deliver the 
full potential of your company. 
One of the reasons for optimism is 
the outlook for the Indian economy. 
Notwithstanding the recent policy 
impasse and adverse macro economic 
factors, over the last Five Year Plan, the 
Indian economy has grown around 
35%, pulling many people out of poverty 
and increasing the wealth of the middle 
classes. As more and more people in 
India see pathways opening up to a 
better way of life, they want to improve 
their living conditions and fundamental 
to this is the provision of energy; be that 
petroleum products for cars and other 
transportation or electricity for lighting 
and household goods. Demand is rising 
rapidly and the provision of petroleum 
products and electricity to the Indian 
market is central to what we do and 
why I am so conﬁdent in our business 
model (see pages 10 and 1 1).
If India is to meet its 12th Five Year Plan 
target of 9% GDP growth each year from 
2012 to 201 7 , then according to India’s 
Planning Commission, this will require 
energy supplies to grow at a rate of 
between 6.5% and 7% per year, which 
is above the rates of the last ﬁve years.
Longer term, India is very well placed 
in having a young population, not 
only in comparison to advanced 
economies, but also in relation to the 
large developing countries of China 
and Brazil. As a result, the labour force 
is expected to increase by around 30% 
and the urban population is expected 
to increase from around 31% today to 
over 40%, both over the next 20 years. 
Strategy
As a result, our strategy remains 
unchanged; to create a world-class, 
low-cost, integrated energy company 
focused on India and positioned to 
capitalise on India’s growing energy 
demand. We will only look outside of 
India for two reasons; ﬁrst to secure 
upstream resources, which is mainly 
applicable to the coal required for our 
Indian power stations, and second, to 
secure market access, which applies 
to our reﬁneries in Kenya and the UK. 
In pursuit of this strategy, in July 201 1 
we completed the acquisition of the 
Stanlow reﬁnery in the UK. This high 
quality reﬁnery, which has a capacity of 
296,000 bpd and supplies around 15% 
of transport fuels in the UK, gives us 
options to bring high quality product 
from India to the UK and European 
markets. In addition, the acquisition 
cost of just US$350 million was very 
competitive when compared to other 
similar transactions in Europe over the 
last three years. In recent years, Stanlow 
has suffered from a lack of investment, 
but we see tremendous scope to 
improve the performance and 
proﬁtability of this asset and we 
are implementing a plan developed 
during our ﬁrst 100 days of ownership 
to deliver this.
Given the issues we have been facing 
in the power business recently, together 
with the loss of the sales tax case, we 
have decided to focus in the near term 
on managing risk more effectively and 
look to ensure the delivery of our current 
suite of growth projects before we start 
to reinvest in the portfolio. This does not 
signal a lack of conﬁdence in the India 
growth story, but rather a short-term 
adjustment to the current 
market realities.
Board governance
The Company has adopted the 
principles of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code and has only 
departed from such principles in a small 
number of instances where the Board 
has considered that good governance 
can be achieved by other means which 
are preferable for the Essar Energy 
business. Our Nomination and 
Governance Committee keeps key 
governance matters under review 
on a regular basis. 
Following a telecom investigation in 
India relating to the equity holding of the 
Essar Group in Loop Telecom, Mr Ravi 
Ruia decided to step aside from the 
Chairmanship of Essar Energy. While 
these charges do not relate to Essar 
Energy and are not expected to have 
any impact on Essar Energy’s business 
operations, Mr. Ravi Ruia decided to 
step down from the Chairmanship as 
a good governance measure and to 
ensure that the Board and management 
of Essar Energy continue to be fully 
focussed on successfully delivering 
against their laid out strategy. The 
Essar Group has always been open, 
transparent and law abiding, and I am 
conﬁdent that these charges will be 
dismissed by the courts in India.
On 29 March 2012 we appointed 
Steve Lucas as a ﬁfth Independent 
Non-Executive Director to the Board of 
Essar Energy. Steve brings a wealth of 
experience to the Board, particularly in 
the areas of power and ﬁnance given his 
background as the Finance Director of 
National Grid from 2002 to 2010. This 
move further strengthens the experience 
and independence of our Board. 
People
Our strategy is based on building 
world-class assets, but this cannot 
be achieved without the people to 
construct, operate and manage these 
assets. As I visit the different parts of 
our business, I am always impressed by 
the quality of the people that we have 
within Essar. Last year, we welcomed 
1,007 new colleagues into the Essar 
family through the acquisition of the 
Stanlow reﬁnery. Despite having very 
different backgrounds, I have been very 
impressed with how quickly Stanlow 
has been integrated into Essar Energy 
and we are already seeing the beneﬁts 
of some real knowledge sharing 
between our UK and Indian operations.
Much of the credit for this must  
go to Naresh Nayyar and his Senior 
Management team. He continues to 
develop and grow the talent within the 
organisation and on your behalf, the 
Board would like to thank him and  
the entire Essar Energy team for the 
contribution they have made this year.
Prashant Ruia
Chairman
22 June 2012
