 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
Company overview
06
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
On 31 July 201 1, we completed the 
acquisition of the Stanlow reﬁnery which 
supplies approximately 15% of transport 
fuels in the UK. This is a good quality 
asset with a mid complexity of 8.2 and 
is strategically located near Manchester 
to supply north west and central 
England. The acquisition cost, at 
US$350 million, is very competitive 
when compared to similar transactions 
completed over the last three years. 
Since the acquisition, the operating 
performance has been in line with 
expectations processing 51 million 
barrels of oil in the ﬁrst eight months 
of ownership. More importantly, we 
completed our 100 day plan post 
acquisition and have identiﬁed a number 
of opportunities to improve the reﬁnery 
which should deliver a minimum US$2/
barrel to the GRMs, or US$150 million of 
additional EBITDA, by the end of 2013. 
Delivery of these improvements will 
ensure that Stanlow is positioned to 
be cash ﬂow positive in even the worst 
market conditions, such as those that 
we saw in Europe in the last quarter 
of 201 1.
In Power, we saw strong availability 
across our portfolio with each plant 
being available more than 93% of the 
time. Actual power generation was 
slightly lower than last year (adjusted for 
the 15 month period) mainly due to high 
gas prices leading to reduced demand 
from our customers offset by the 
commissioning of the Vadinar Phase 1 
380 MW co-generation plant in 
Gujarat, India. 
Financial results: Impacted by 
external factors
Earlier this year, we decided to move 
our ﬁnancial reporting to a March year 
end to bring our reporting into line with 
the Indian tax year. As a result, we are 
reporting a 15 month period for this 
set of annual results. Despite our solid 
operating performance, we are reporting 
a loss before tax of US$1, 147 .7 million, 
mainly as a result of three critical factors.
First, as a result of us losing the sales 
tax beneﬁt case in the Supreme Court 
of India which resulted in the reversal of 
the entire sales tax beneﬁt revenue 
previously recognised of US$1,053.7 
million together with other related 
adjustments (see Note 8a for further 
details). Second, as a result of the lapse 
of a prepayment option on Essar Oil’s 
MRA loans, which has resulted in a 
non-cash charge of US$321.5 million 
The ﬁnancial year 2011–12 provided 
a number of challenges for your 
company. Increased inﬂation fed 
through to higher interest rates, we saw 
a slowdown in the receipt of regulatory 
approvals and in January of this year 
we lost our sales tax case in the Indian 
Supreme Court which removed a 
signiﬁcant ﬁscal beneﬁt. Despite these 
challenges, our operations performed 
well and we made good progress on 
our growth projects.
Solid operating performance
During the year, we saw a strong 
operating performance across our 
reﬁning and power portfolios.
The Vadinar reﬁnery in India continues to 
perform well with production broadly ﬂat 
on last year, after adjusting for the 35 
day outage in September and October 
for routine maintenance and to tie in the 
new expansion units for the phase 1 
expansion. In total we processed 125 
million barrels of oil through Vadinar in 
the 15 month period. Operating costs 
remain very competitive at just US$3/
barrel, including marketing and 
distribution costs. 
“The completion of our 
Vadinar reﬁnery now puts 
this asset amongst the 
best in the world in terms 
of scale and complexity.” Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
COMPANY
OVERVIEW
BUSINESS
REVIEW GOVERNAN C E
FINANCIA L
STATEMENT S
07
(see Note 8b for further details). And 
third, during the ﬁnancial year, the Indian 
Rupee depreciated sharply by 14% 
resulting in foreign exchange losses of 
US$316.9 million (see Note 7 for further 
details). Excluding the impact of these 
factors, proﬁt before tax for the year 
was US$445.9 million. 
The loss of the sales tax beneﬁt case 
in particular has led us to place more 
focus on debt and funding in the 
event that we receive a demand for 
immediate repayment and interest 
thereon on the deferred sales tax 
liability or we are unable to reach 
an acceptable deferred repayment 
schedule. We are currently in the 
advanced stages of establishing a 
new c.US$1 billion debt facility with 
our Indian lenders to potentially fund 
the sales tax liability, as well as 
pursuing funding options with other 
lenders to improve liquidity. As our 
projects commission, our focus will 
move to delivering the promised cash 
ﬂows and reducing debt levels.
Growth projects: Capex cycle 
coming to an end
We continued to execute our signiﬁcant 
pipeline of growth projects during the 
15 months to March 2012, investing a 
total of US$2.8 billion across our oil and 
gas and power projects.
In Reﬁning, I am pleased to report the 
completion of the phase 1 expansion 
of our Vadinar reﬁnery and, post year 
end, the completion of the reﬁnery 
optimisation project, which now puts 
this asset amongst the best in the world 
in terms of scale and complexity. The 
expanded reﬁnery now has a capacity 
of 20 mmtpa or 405,000 bpd and a 
complexity of 1 1.8. The increased 
complexity in particular will allow us 
to signiﬁcantly enhance our reﬁnery 
margins as we can process a much 
heavier, and hence cheaper, crude 
diet and produce a higher proportion 
of more valuable middle and light 
distillates. I expect to see a signiﬁcant 
uplift in the cash ﬂow and proﬁtability 
of this asset during this current year.
In Power, we commissioned the 380 
MW Vadinar P1 gas ﬁred co-generation 
project and post year end have 
commissioned the 1,200 MW Salaya I 
coal ﬁred power project. Salaya I is the 
ﬁrst coal ﬁred plant that the Company 
has built and commissioned and 
triggers a string of coal projects that 
will complete over the next two years 
to take our total generation capacity to 
6,700 MW by the end of March 2014 
from 2,800 MW today. We are conﬁdent 
of delivering on this target. 
One of the disappointments this year 
however, has been the continued 
delays to regulatory approvals in India 
and elsewhere. In particular, this has 
impacted our ability to develop our 
captive coal blocks and current coal 
shortages in India increase the risks of 
us having to run the plant that we are 
commissioning at lower load factors 
than planned. We were encouraged in 
January by the Prime Minister of India’s 
intervention in the power sector to 
resolve all major issues, and that we 
received in June provisional forest 
clearance for our Mahan coal block. 
However, delays to approvals will still 
impact the Mahan (1,200 MW) and Tori 
(1,800 MW) power projects which are 
due to commission in the near term. 
As a result, we are putting in place 
contingency plans to ensure that we 
have sufﬁcient coal at these power 
stations to cover, as a minimum, all 
of our cash costs until our own mines 
are operating.
Given ongoing regulatory delays, 
we have also decided to defer three 
of our construction projects; Salaya II 
(1,320 MW), Salaya III (600 MW) and 
Navabharat I (1,050 MW). This is very 
disappointing given the unquestionable 
demand for power in India, but we 
believe this to be a prudent decision to 
allow us to manage risk and focus on 
those power projects which will provide 
more certain cash ﬂows and proﬁtability. 
The deferred projects will now only 
proceed against speciﬁc milestones 
related to land and environmental 
approvals and us securing the 
necessary fuel supplies.
Completion of the Vadinar reﬁnery 
optimisation project brings to an end 
the current capital expenditure cycle in 
the reﬁning business and we expect 
the capital expenditure cycle in power 
to ramp down over the next two years. 
The focus will then move to ensuring 
that all assets operate to expectations, 
that we secure the necessary feed 
stock and start to deliver the promised 
cash ﬂow and proﬁtability.
Health and safety
The number one priority for our business 
remains to enable our employees to 
operate in a healthy and safe working 
environment. Our employees have 
embraced our values in this area and 
we continue to be recognised externally 
for our health and safety practices. As 
at 31 March 2012, our Vadinar reﬁnery 
operations crossed 1,460 LTI free days 
and our Power operations at Hazira 
crossed 3,584 LTI free days. I am 
pleased to report that Stanlow also has 
an excellent safety record having now 
passed 794 LTI free days as at 31 March 
2012, which is particularly pleasing 
as this covers the handover and 
integration period.
I was particularly impressed this year 
by the safety performance during the 
Vadinar reﬁnery’s 35 day shut-down for 
routine maintenance and to tie-in all of 
the new units and revamp other units 
for the expansion project. In total, 2,492 
maintenance and inspection jobs and 
over 1,600 tie-in jobs for the new and 
revamped units were completed 
involving some 15,000 employees 
and contractors on site. All of these 
jobs were completed without any 
accidents or injuries and the overall 
project was delivered to the original 
35 day schedule. This was a signiﬁcant 
achievement in itself, but the overriding 
commitment to complete the work 
safely was excellent.
While maintaining an excellent safety 
record at our operations, our focus for 
improvement continues to be at our 
under construction projects where 
there is clear room for improvement. 
The health and safety of our employees 
and the communities where we operate 
is a priority for our Company and is 
important to me personally as well as 
the entire Senior Management team.
The Company has a clear strategy 
in place to capitalise on India’s rapidly 
growing energy demand. While we are 
making clear progress in certain areas, 
head winds remain in others, particularly 
in relation to regulatory approvals and 
the development of our coal mines. As 
a result, we are adjusting our focus to 
complete our current growth projects 
and then focus on our operations to 
deliver to expectations. 
Naresh Nayyar
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
22 June 2012
