 06 Company overview
Essar Energy plc
Annual Report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s  
review
Growth projects
FY2013 saw the completion of several 
major projects and with this, significant 
growth in capacity. Our Vadinar refinery 
upgrade increased capacity by 15% to 
20 million metric tonnes per annum 
(mmtpa) and a complexity of 1 1 .8, and 
our power capacity increased by 1 44% 
with completion of the 1 ,200 MW Salaya I 
coal-fired power plant, the 5 10 MW Vadinar 
P2 coal-fired power plant and the first 600 
MW unit at our Mahan I coal-fired power 
plant. With the completion of these 
projects, the majority of our capex 
programme is complete which 
significantly reduces construction 
risks within the Company.
The new Vadinar refinery expansion 
units were ramped up to full capacity and 
complexity within six months of completion, 
which is a credit to the operating team at 
Vadinar . This asset has been operating at 
full capacity for the last six months so our 
focus has moved to the optimisation of the 
individual units to enhance volumes and 
margins. This asset now stands amongst 
the best in the world in terms of scale and 
complexity and, with a total cost of just 
US$5.3 billion, is also amongst the most 
competitive from a capital perspective. 
The Vadinar refinery is the flagship asset 
in Essar Energy’s portfolio.
In Power , we more than doubled our 
capacity from 1 ,600 MW a year ago to 
3,910 MW today. Importantly, the projects 
completed this year are the first of our 
coal-fired power projects; Salaya I, which 
will primarily provide power to the local 
state utility in Gujarat; Vadinar P2, which 
will provide power and steam to the 
Vadinar refinery; and Mahan I, which will 
provide power to local utilities, Essar Steel 
and the merchant market. Despite some 
initial issues around temporary cooling 
water availability at Salaya and transmission 
at Mahan, I am pleased to report that these 
plants are all now being stabilised and will 
shortly be operating as expected. 
Operating performance
Following completion of a number of 
projects during the year we saw a 
significant uplift in production. 
In Refining, production was up by 22% 
from 1 76 million barrels (mmbbls) to 
215 mmbbls following the expansion of the 
Vadinar refinery and a full year contribution 
“FY2013 has been a year of solid 
delivery against our strategy.”
Naresh Nayyar 
Chief Executive Officer 07
Essar Energy plc
Annual Report and accounts 2013
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements
from the Stanlow refinery which was 
acquired in July 201 1 . More importantly, we 
saw a strong uplift in our CP GRMs from 
US$4.45/bbl to US$7 .96/bbl at Vadinar 
following the upgrade in complexity from 
6. 1 to 1 1 .8 and improved market conditions 
in Asia. At Stanlow, we saw CP GRMs 
increase from US$3.06/bbl to US$7 .38/bbl 
which includes the benefits of our margin 
enhancement as well as improved market 
conditions in Europe.
The current financial year will see us benefit 
from a full year of the upgraded complexity 
at Vadinar . Projects have been delivered  
to improve GRMs by a sustainable  
US$2.2/bbl in Stanlow. Stanlow has 
increased its target for sustainable margin 
enhancements to US$4/bbl, which will 
allow it to deliver GRMs of US$6/bbl above 
IEA European benchmark margins by the 
end of FY2015.
In Power , production across the 
portfolio was up by 26% from 7 ,907 million 
units (MU) to 10,01 7 MU as a decline in 
production across our gas-based power 
plants due to high gas prices was more 
than offset by increased production from 
our new power plant. Despite this progress, 
we continue to face challenges in our 
power operations due to regulatory delays, 
coal availability, logistics challenges and 
high gas prices. Our operating teams 
continue to innovate to overcome these 
challenges, such as the transfer of cooling 
water from our Vadinar refinery to the 
Salaya power plant to ensure sufficient 
water availability and our decision to 
convert the Bhander and Hazira power 
projects from gas to coal, but we need to 
see improvements in regulation and the 
availability of coal and gas at affordable 
prices to deliver the full potential of our 
power assets.
Despite these challenges, as our 
operations settle down and with a full year 
contribution from our new plant, we should 
again see an uplift in generation in this 
current financial year .
Improved financial results
The improved operating performance has 
fed through to a much improved financial 
performance with CP EBITDA up 1 76% on 
last year from US$485 million to US$1 ,336 
million. The IFRS loss before tax of US$163 
million was impacted by items outside of 
our control such as foreign exchange loss 
of US$256 million, which would otherwise 
have led to a profit before tax. This was still 
a major improvement on last year’s loss 
before tax of US$1 , 1 48 million which was 
impacted by the loss of the Gujarat sales 
tax case. 
With operations now stabilising, the 
focus is now firmly on optimising the 
performance of our assets and I would 
expect to see continued top line 
improvements in future periods.
Our net finance costs increased from 
last year’s US$384 million to US$691 
million due to interest on sales tax and 
increased interest from projects moving 
into operations as interest which was 
previously capitalised is now expensed 
in our profit and loss account. Looking 
forward, our focus moves to reducing the 
impact of financing costs on profits. We 
have commenced a number of initiatives 
to reduce interest costs including the 
dollarisation of our Rupee debt in Essar 
Oil, extending the repayment profile of 
our debt to better match asset lives, and 
reducing overall debt levels. We will 
provide updates on progress of these 
initiatives in future periods.
Health and safety
Health and safety remains the number 
one priority for Essar Energy. During 
the year, despite an overall good 
performance, we had Lost Time Incidents 
at our Vadinar, Stanlow, Raniganj and 
Salaya assets. Sadly, we also had a 
vehicle incident at the Vadinar refinery 
involving a contractor which led to a 
fatality. As a result, we decided to raise 
the profile of the Board’s Health, Safety 
and Environment (HSE) Committee at our 
sites and held HSE site visits at Stanlow, 
Vadinar and Salaya. This allowed the HSE 
Committee to review conditions on the 
ground and agree a number of action 
points with a view to improving 
performance. I am confident that all of 
our operations will continue to seek 
improvements in HSE performance.
We also continue to engage with 
the people around our operations to 
ensure that we are giving back to our 
communities. Our focus is on health, 
education, basic services and supporting 
the creation of sustainable micro 
businesses. During the year, through the 
Essar Foundation, we contributed 
US$719,660 to community activities and I 
would encourage you to review some of 
the case studies laid out in this Report 
and our separately published online 
Sustainability Report.
Your Company has made significant 
progress against our stated strategy 
during FY2013. Our major capex 
programme is now complete in our 
Refinery business and nearing completion 
in Power. With this, our focus has moved 
to asset optimisation to ensure that all 
assets deliver to expectations, and then to 
reducing net debt within the Company. 
While challenges remain, we are very clear 
on what we need to do to be successful 
and I am confident of delivery against 
our objectives.
I am positive that Essar Energy will continue 
to go from strength to strength.
Naresh Nayyar
Chief Executive Officer
23 June 2013
Heat recovery steam generator and 
chimney at Bhander power plant.
Our major capex 
programme is now 
complete in our refining 
businesses and nearing 
completion in our power 
business. Our focus now 
moves to asset 
optimisation and debt 
reduction within the 
Company.
