 04 Company overview
Essar Energy plc
Annual Report and accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
Introduction
Welcome to Essar Energy’s Annual 
Report for FY2013. Following a 
challenging FY2012, FY2013 has seen 
significant positive progress on a number 
of fronts, demonstrating our ability to 
construct and operate world-class assets 
across the oil and gas and power sectors. 
In our Refining and Marketing business 
in India we completed the upgrade 
programme at our flagship Vadinar 
refinery and now have a world-class 
refinery producing high value fuels for 
the international and domestic markets. 
At Stanlow in the UK, projects have 
been delivered to improve GRMs by a 
sustainable US$2.2/bbl. Stanlow has 
increased its target for sustainable margin 
enhancements to $4/bbl, and is therefore 
now positioned to deliver GRMs of US$6/
bbl above IEA European benchmark 
margins by the end of FY2015. In our 
Exploration and Production business we 
have secured the final approvals to allow 
us to accelerate the development of our 
Raniganj coal bed methane (CBM) project 
in West Bengal, a project which is key to 
us becoming a leader in the development 
of unconventional gas resources in India. 
In Power, we have delivered 2,310 MW of 
new coal-fired power generating capacity, 
more than doubling our capacity from just 
one year ago to a total of 3,910 MW.
Delivery of these projects means that 
we have seen a significant improvement 
in our operating performance which 
is starting to feed through to our 
financial results. 
“The past year has seen 
significant positive progress, 
clearly demonstrating our 
ability to construct and operate 
world-class assets across the 
oil and gas and power sectors.”
Prashant Ruia 
Chairman 05
Essar Energy plc
Annual Report and accounts 2013
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Despite more positive results, we, and 
our industry as a whole, continue to face 
a number of challenges due to slow 
progress with regulatory approvals in 
India. However, we are starting to see 
more positive progress on a number 
of fronts with the Government of India 
seeking to reduce the fiscal deficit 
and move commodity prices, including 
energy prices, to more commercial 
levels. We are very supportive of these 
measures and look forward to more 
positive progress in the months ahead. 
Strategy
We remain firmly of the view that India will 
continue to experience high growth rates 
for many years to come as the economy 
progresses with its industrialisation and 
urbanisation. Central to delivering this 
growth is the need for energy; whether 
fuels for transportation or electricity for 
the increasingly urban population. If India 
moves towards its targeted GDP growth 
rate of around 9% per year, then this 
requires energy supplies to grow at 
between 6.5% to 7% each year. 
These are ambitious, but achievable 
targets, and why we remain confident that 
our strategy is the right one; to create a 
world-class, low-cost, integrated energy 
company focused on India and positioned 
to capitalise on India’s growing energy 
demand. We have not changed this 
strategy for the last three years, and have 
no plans to do so, but given our current 
position in the investment cycle, we are 
looking to consolidate our position over the 
next three years before we embark on the 
next phase of growth.
In this respect, our short to medium-term 
priorities will be to complete our current 
capital expenditure (‘capex’) programme, 
which is already completed in our Refining 
businesses and mostly completed in 
Power; to optimise the performance of 
our assets – to ensure that they deliver the 
cash flow and earnings that were originally 
envisaged at the time of the original 
investment decision; and then focus on 
our balance sheet, to reduce interest 
costs, extend our repayment profile to 
better match the life of our assets and 
reduce our overall net debt. Underlying all 
of these efforts will be our continued desire 
to be a good corporate citizen for all of our 
stakeholders. With this clear focus over the 
next three years we will put ourselves in a 
much stronger position both operationally 
and financially and will be ready to embark 
on our next phase of growth.
Board governance
Following the appointment of Steve 
Lucas in March 2012, the Board now 
has a good mix with five Independent 
Directors and three Non-Independent 
Directors. However, we continue to 
review the market to strengthen further 
the experience, independence and 
diversity of our Board members.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and to ensure a continuous 
improvement in our corporate governance 
profile, we undertook our first externally 
facilitated Board evaluation this year, the 
results of which are outlined in the 
Corporate Governance Report. I am 
pleased to report that this independent 
evaluation confirmed that the Board and 
its Committees operate effectively and 
each Director demonstrates commitment 
to their role.
GUVNL transmission line to Salaya power plant.
India will continue to experience high growth 
rates for many years to come as the economy 
progresses with its industrialisation and 
urbanisation. Central to delivering this growth 
is the need for energy.
People
The quality of our assets and strong 
operating performance is a testament to 
the skills, dedication and commitment of 
our people. Where necessary, we have 
brought in new people to strengthen our 
leadership teams across the businesses 
and this is starting to deliver improved 
operating and financial performance. This 
year we have completed over US$4 billion 
of capital projects and they have all been 
seamlessly moved into operation. Even 
where we have faced disruptions, teams 
across the businesses have worked 
together to find solutions to ensure that 
we can continue to deliver supplies to our 
customers. For all of this, I would like to 
thank each of our employees for their 
efforts throughout the year.
They have been assisted in this 
endeavour through the excellent 
leadership of our Chief Executive Officer, 
Naresh Nayyar, and his Senior 
Management team. 
Prashant Ruia
Chairman
23 June 2013
