 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 04
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
Jeff Harris
Results summary
This is Filtrona’s first full financial year as an 
independent listed company following the 
separation from Bunzl plc in June 2005. 
Our management has shown the benefits 
of that independence by delivering revenue 
growth of 5.9%, profit before tax growth of 
9.2%, and increasing diluted earnings per 
share by 8.3%. Underlying operating profit 
grew by 9.0%, after taking account of 
foreign currency translation and a full year 
of central service cost, which is well ahead 
of our historical trend of organic growth.
The Company is established as an 
international group with strong market 
positions and manufacturing facilities in 
most major markets in the world.
Both business segments made real 
progress in 2006, with Plastic Technologies 
showing particularly strong profit and 
margin improvement. Fibre Technologies 
recovered from the tough conditions in the 
first half of the year and delivered both 
revenue and profit growth for the full 
financial year. 
The Company achieved an 81% 
improvement in net cash inflow before 
financing activities, increasing from £15.8m 
in 2005 to £28.6m.  www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 05
Filtrona delivered a strong set of results in 2006.  
We expect to maintain good underlying growth in  
2007 and, with improved cash generation and a strong 
balance sheet, we are seeking value enhancing acquisitions
 
This was largely achieved by operational 
management focusing on stronger working 
capital control. During the year interest cover 
increased to 10.1 times (2005: 9.6 times) 
and, at the year end, the ratio of net debt to 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation had improved from 1.5 in 
2005 to 1.2 in 2006.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 4.6p per share which, if 
approved at the Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’), will make a total of 6.9p (2005: 
6.4p) per share for the full year. This 
represents a 7.8% increase on last year. 
The final dividend will be paid on 4 May 
2007 to shareholders on the register at  
10 April 2007 .
Board 
The Board, which was established at the 
time of flotation, has successfully introduced 
the high standards of governance which are 
appropriate to an independent listed 
company as well as reviewing the business 
strategy of the Company. It met eight times 
during the year, with two Board meetings 
being held at operating sites to enable the 
Non-executive Directors to meet key local 
management and further extend their 
knowledge of the Company’s manufacturing 
facilities within the UK and Europe. 
Warren Knowlton became a Non-executive 
Director of the Company on 1 June 2006. At 
the end of 2006, Warren assumed a full-time 
chief executive role in the US and, as a 
result, he is not putting himself forward for 
re-election at the AGM and will leave the 
Board on 30 April 2007 . We are grateful to 
Warren for his valuable contribution. The 
recruitment of a replacement for Warren is 
already under way.
Employees
After the challenges presented by the 
demerger, Filtrona’s employees renewed their 
focus on generating sustained growth of 
revenue and profit throughout 2006. The 
performance of the Company demonstrates 
the commitment and skill of Filtrona 
employees across the many regions in which 
the businesses operate. On behalf of the 
Board and the shareholders, I would like to 
thank them all for their continuing contribution 
to the strong development of Filtrona. 
Outlook
Looking forward, Filtrona expects 2007 to be 
a year of further good underlying progress, 
although the headline results will be affected 
by an anticipated £5m restructuring charge. 
As previously announced, this charge  
relates to the restructuring of Cigarette Filters’ 
manufacturing facilities to match the expected 
reduction in demand for conventional carbon 
dual filters. 
In Plastic Technologies, the combination of 
strong market positions and the expected 
favourable trading conditions give the 
Company confidence in continued positive 
progress in 2007. 
Within Fibre Technologies, further progress is 
expected in revenue and operating profit from 
the Bonded Fibre Components business and 
the Company remains confident in the future 
prospects for Cigarette Filters.
The Company will continue to invest in  
the organic growth of the business and it  
is anticipated that capital spend in 2007  
will again be ahead of depreciation.  
Capital investments will reduce unit costs  
of production and improve both quality  
and service performance. Revenue 
investments will drive geographic 
expansion, product innovation and 
intellectual property development. In 
addition, the Company remains active in 
the pursuit of value enhancing acquisitions 
in selected niche markets. 
With a clear strategy, a committed team 
and a strong balance sheet, the Board 
remains confident the Company will 
continue to achieve good underlying 
growth and deliver attractive returns.
Jeff Harris
Chairman
1 March 2007
