 Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Mark Harper
www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06
Filtrona Values
Our style
 We will be open, honest and enthusiastic, 
celebrating our successes and learning 
from our experiences
 We will be passionate in our pursuit of 
excellence and dedicate ourselves to the 
very best of quality in everything we do
 We will work as a team, valuing everyone’s 
contribution and minimising bureaucracy
 We will treat each other in a consistent 
and fair manner
Our responsibilities
 We will share our company strategy, and 
ensure we understand the part we play in it
 We will all have clear goals, the necessary 
resources and freedoms to achieve them, 
and honest assessment of our performance
 We will always conduct ourselves with 
integrity and respect – for our fellows and 
for our environment
 We will aim to advance our knowledge,  
skills and professionalism in all we do
 We will do our best and accept 
accountability for our actions
Our goals
 We will strive to delight our customers and 
hold the respect of our suppliers
 We will work together to grow our business 
for the benefit of our stakeholders
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• North America 40.4%
Europe 35.2%
Rest of World 24.4%
Tobacco
Toiletries
Writing Instruments
Transport
Oil & Gas
Point of Purchase
Lighting
Construction
Fence
Other/Miscellaneous
£191.7m
£132.9m
£219.6m
www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 07
Overview
Filtrona is an international, market leading, 
speciality plastic and fibre products supplier 
with activities segmented into Plastic 
Technologies and Fibre Technologies.
Plastic Technologies produces, sources 
and distributes protection and finishing 
products, self-adhesive tear tape and 
security products as well as proprietary  
and customised plastic extrusions and 
packaging items for consumer products.
Fibre Technologies focuses on the 
production and supply of special filters  
for cigarettes and bonded fibre products 
such as reservoirs and wicks for writing 
instruments and printers, household 
products and medical devices.
Filtrona derives strength from serving  
a diverse group of customers across a 
selected range of niche markets. Filtrona  
is a supplier throughout the world to  
many international, blue chip, market 
leading customers.
In 2006, the geographic destination of the 
Company’s revenue was as shown above.  
The Rest of World segment includes many 
of the lower cost manufacturing regions 
and has grown from 22.5% of revenue in 
2004 to 24.4% in 2006.
As the Company moves into new regions 
for manufacture and supply it seeks to 
maximise the opportunities across all of its 
lines of business. It is expected that the 
expansion of the Ningbo, China factory, 
which was opened in 2004 by the Bonded 
Fibre Components business, will facilitate 
the introduction of both Protection and 
Finishing Products and Plastic Profile and 
Sheet activities into the Chinese market 
during 2007.
Performance
Last year Filtrona reported that it had made 
a promising start as an independent listed 
company. In its first full financial year since 
the June 2005 demerger, the Company 
continued to perform well with revenue  
up 5.9% to £544.2m (2005: £513.7m)  
and operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and demerger expense up 
6.6% to £61.6m (2005: £57 .8m). Underlying 
operating profit growth was 9.0% after 
taking account of the impact of foreign 
currency translation and a full year of central 
service cost. The net cash inflow from 
operating activities was strong at £61.1m 
(2005: £56.9m) up 7 .4%. The return on 
average operating capital excluding 
intangibles improved from 23.7% to 23.8% 
in 2006 and adjusted earnings per share 
grew by 6.7% from 15.0p to 16.0p.
Strategy
Filtrona’s strategy is to continue to grow 
profitably through investing organically and 
by acquisition in selected niche international 
markets within Plastic Technologies and 
Fibre Technologies. The Company 
endeavours to strengthen its competitive 
position through product innovation, 
sourcing and distribution expansion, supply 
chain improvement and cost reduction. In 
addition, investments in people, systems 
and infrastructure, combined with the 
acquisition of selected value enhancing 
businesses, will also drive the future 
performance of Filtrona. 
Revenue by destination www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08
Plastic Technologies
Plastic Technologies had another very 
successful year with revenue up 5.9% to 
£289.5m (2005: £273.3m) and operating 
profit before intangible amortisation  
up 10.1% to £41.4m (2005: £37.6m).  
The operating margin improved again  
to 14.3% (2005: 13.8%) reflecting the  
stronger performance of the higher margin 
businesses. During 2006, polymer input 
costs rose progressively throughout the 
year in Europe but showed some easing 
during the final quarter in the Americas 
after three consecutive quarters of 
increases. These increases were fully 
recovered, through selective pricing action, 
thereby underlining the strength of 
Filtrona’s niche market positions. Revenue 
per employee increased by 2.4% to 
£94,763 (2005: £92,550) and operating 
profit before intangible amortisation per 
employee increased by 6.4% to £13,552 
(2005: £12,733).
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Protection and Finishing Products  
has grown to become the largest profit  
contributing line of business
Protection and Finishing Products again 
performed particularly well. It has now 
grown to become Filtrona’s largest profit 
contributing line of business and is 
expected to continue in this position. The 
key strategic drivers behind its progress 
remain geographic development, product 
range expansion and investment in 
marketing programmes. 
Moss, the pan-European plastic parts 
supplier, continued to gain market share  
in Continental Europe and maintained its 
market leading position in the UK where  
the ongoing decline of manufacturing 
industry is generating tough trading 
conditions. The mix of proprietary and 
custom lines strengthened further in favour 
of proprietary products. The expansion of 
the Moss North European distribution hub  
in Germany was completed in April 2006 
and this will yield important service benefits 
to the Continental European operations.  
The Company intends to continue the 
development of the distribution network and 
the opening of the next unit in Hungary is 
planned for the first half of 2007 . 
In China, the headcount within the sourcing 
organisation in Ningbo was further increased 
and reliable, high quality sources for both 
finished products and tooling have now 
been established. Production output 
improved as a result of investment in larger 
machines and tooling, and a new tool 
handling and storage system was completed 
in the second half of the year at the 
Oxfordshire facility. The disposal of a small 
non-core plastic promotional products 
business was completed in March 2006.
Skiffy, the European specialist small nylon 
parts producer, achieved strong sales 
growth and continued to perform well  
ahead of the forecasts set at the time of its 
acquisition in 2004. All locations benefited 
from further investment in marketing 
programmes which, combined with 
improved productivity, increased margins. 
Internet ordering via the website,  
www.skiffy.com, is an important component 
of the business model and usage again 
increased to account for 22.0% of Skiffy’s 
2006 revenues. The new Skiffy distribution 
facility in Poland is now fully operational. Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09
Plastic Technologies
Protection and Finishing Products
ACC caps
These caps are used to protect the charge ports on 
residential and automotive air conditioning systems. 
Alliance has the capacity to produce in excess of 40 
million caps each year www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
In the Americas, Alliance, the US-based 
plastic parts supplier, continued to 
progress as planned with good growth 
despite the weakness in the automotive 
sector. During 2006 substantial internal 
resources were dedicated to the 
implementation programme for a new 
computer system which will streamline 
operations and improve customer service. 
The new system went live successfully over 
the year end period without business 
disruption and benefits from the 
improvements to overall efficiency are 
already being seen. 
The new manufacturing operation in Saõ 
Paulo started up on schedule and the 
improved competitiveness from 
manufacturing locally is already having a 
positive impact on revenue growth rates in 
Brazil. The configuration of the Erie, 
Pennsylvania central warehouse was 
modified to improve stocking density by 
35%. Unit production costs continued to fall 
at the Erie facility as a result of further 
investment in new machinery and high 
cavitation tooling.
Preparations were made for a new Alliance 
Express location in Chicago, US which is 
now open. 
Performance at MSI, the oil country tubular 
goods thread protector business, was again 
strong, resulting from favourable trading 
conditions, market share gains and 
investment-driven productivity improvements. 
At the end of the year, trial orders were placed 
by an important new international customer 
and the benefit from this new account should 
feed through in 2007 . Additional investments 
in new production machinery and tooling 
were made at Houston, Texas and Vera Cruz, 
Mexico and the purchase of land adjacent to 
the Houston facility was completed to secure 
space for the future growth of that operation. 
Protection and Finishing Products has a 
clear strategy and good momentum behind 
it. Looking ahead to 2007, it is expected 
again to perform well.
Coated and Security Products continued 
to pursue its strategy of developing new 
security technologies and applications, 
whilst sustaining its world leadership 
position in the self-adhesive tear tape 
market. A modest revenue increase was 
achieved, with the good growth in security 
products and FractureCode partly offset  
by reductions in tear tape. 
The tear tape business suffered from 
continued weakness in demand for 
promotional tapes as some important 
customers in the tobacco sector reduced 
promotional activity. Sales into other fast-
moving consumer goods (‘FMCG’) sectors 
were strong. The facility in Richmond, US 
was upgraded to enable the printing of 
security products and, during the second 
half of the year, new slitting lines were 
installed in the UK and US to enhance both 
productivity and quality. In January 2007,  
a labour cost reduction programme was 
announced within the tear tape business.
Coated and Security Products sustained  
its world leadership position in the  
self-adhesive tear tape market FractureCode
With more than 2.7x10
50
 unique combinations 
possible, every tax stamp in the world could  
be individually coded for the next 100 years
www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11
Plastic Technologies
Coated and Security Products www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12
Good market demand and reduced costs 
delivered a record year for Plastic Profile  
and Sheet
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Supplies of the laminate for the new 
generation UK passport were strong 
throughout 2006 and a new label placing 
line for this project was commissioned  
in the first half of the year. In May the 
acquisition of the CORGI identity card 
printing operation was announced  
and production was successfully relocated 
to the Payne facility in North Wales where a 
major upgrade programme was completed. 
Machinery for the production of security 
labels was ordered and this, combined with 
the development of proprietary security 
technologies for use across the business,  
is anticipated to stimulate sales within 
Payne during 2007. 
In August 2006, the first FractureCode 
licence for its patented track and trace 
technology was agreed with a major FMCG 
company and the roll out is progressing  
well. The losses incurred in the first half of 
the year were substantially reversed in the 
second half and the business incurred a 
small deficit for the year. Since the launch  
in May at the Intergraf Symposium, a major 
international industry event, the FractureCode 
organisation has been strengthened 
progressively to facilitate growth as  
new prospects are developed. 
A new Managing Director has been 
recruited with relevant experience in the  
IT industry.
The increasing investment in the development 
of new security technologies, and the focus 
on reducing cost are anticipated to result in  
a satisfactory performance for the Coated 
and Security Products business in 2007 
despite the ongoing weak demand for 
promotional tapes. 
Plastic Profile and Sheet achieved  
strong growth in the year, resulting from  
the combination of good market demand 
and significant restructuring to reduce cost 
and enhance organisational effectiveness. 
Sales in the North American facilities were 
particularly encouraging and performance 
was assisted by the closure of the small 
Phoenix, Arizona facility at the start of 2006 
and the transfer of production to the facilities 
at Chicago and Tacoma in the US and 
Monterrey in Mexico. 
Further factory rationalisation has been 
announced involving the consolidation in  
the US of the two Massachusetts facilities 
into one at Athol, where a significant 
redevelopment is being undertaken, 
including the construction of a new clean 
room for medical products. The Monterrey 
facility has been expanded to support 
business growth and the addition of a new 
clean room for medical products is planned 
for 2007 .
During 2006 the North American 
organisation has been restructured with  
a reduction from three to two operating 
regions and the establishment of a central 
marketing and sales function for the key 
product groups. Sector specialist sales 
groups have been formed to sharpen  
focus and to facilitate improved market 
penetration. Sales into the key aerospace 
and point of purchase markets in North 
America have been very strong with point  
of purchase revenue in 2006 being more 
than double the level of circa US$12m 
achieved in 2004. www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12
Plastic Technologies
Plastic Profile and Sheet
Cable trunking 
This hinged cable trunking profile is typical of the 
value adding products supplied to customers by 
Filtrona’s Profile and Sheet businesses which use  
in excess of 40 million kg of polymer each year Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Further investment in machinery took place 
across the network of facilities which, in 
conjunction with continuous improvement 
activities, assisted in reducing conversion 
costs. Good revenue growth continued at  
the Enitor business in the Netherlands and  
a major factory expansion was completed  
in the summer.
With the benefits accruing from the 
strengthened management team, the  
new structure and the streamlined plant 
configuration, it is anticipated that the US 
Plastic Profile and Sheet business will have 
another good year in 2007, subject to 
underlying activity in the US economy 
remaining healthy. The European Plastic 
Profile and Sheet business should continue 
to experience good growth.
The Globalpack Consumer Packaging 
business in Brazil experienced very tough 
trading conditions in the first half as 
performance was held back by market 
overcapacity, particularly in tubes, and  
rising raw material prices. The improved 
performance in the second half, which was 
consistently ahead of the comparable period 
in 2005, was driven by the combination  
of greater demand, recovery of rising  
raw material costs through pricing and 
improvements in manufacturing efficiencies. 
The third deodorant roll-on ball line came 
on stream successfully at the end of the 
first quarter of 2006 and ball volumes 
continue to grow satisfactorily. The 
investment programme continued 
throughout the year and important  
new machinery for tube production and 
decoration has been ordered for delivery  
in the first half of 2007. 
A minor expansion at one of the two 
Globalpack locations will facilitate a  
partial plant re-layout and an increase in 
warehouse space to drive the programme 
of productivity and service improvement.
Globalpack’s recovery is expected to 
continue into 2007.
www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14
Despite tough trading conditions 
Consumer Packaging delivered a much improved 
performance in the second half of the year Globalpack
Globalpack’s flexible tubes and closures are used 
for many Brazilian toiletries and cosmetic brands 
and Globalpack has the capacity to produce  
135 million tubes each year 
www.filtrona.com 15 Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14
Plastic Technologies
Consumer Packaging
Globalpack
Globalpack’s flexible tubes and closures are used 
for many Brazilian toiletries and cosmetic brands 
and Globalpack has the capacity to produce  
135 million tubes each year www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Fibre Technologies
Fibre Technologies achieved good revenue 
growth in the year of 5.9% to £254.7m 
(2005: £240.4m). Operating profit before 
intangible amortisation which was flat at the 
half year, improved in the second half  
to deliver a full year increase of 4.5% to 
£28.1m (2005: £26.9m). The operating 
margin reduced to 11.0% (2005: 11.2%). 
Revenue per employee increased by 0.8% 
to £106,792 (2005: £105,903) whilst 
operating profit before intangible 
amortisation per employee decreased by 
0.6% to £11,782 (2005: £11,850).
In Cigarette Filters, total volumes reduced  
by 1.6% or 1.1 billion filter rods with the  
increase of 14.1% in special filters volumes 
offset by a reduction of 19.0% in 
monoacetate filters. In response to changing 
customer demands, the strategy for the 
business has evolved with an increased 
focus on the research and development of 
innovative and more complex filter solutions 
to complement the core manufacturing 
capability. Much progress was made during 
2006 in strengthening the management 
team, including the recruitment of two  
senior level operations specialists to drive 
improvement in factory performance.
In the Americas, overall revenue was flat  
as growth in North America was offset by  
a decline in South America. The losses 
incurred by the Monterrey facility in the first 
half of the year were substantially reversed  
in the second half due to productivity gains. 
Although the full year position remained loss 
making, the operation moved into profit in 
the fourth quarter. 
Revenue and operating profit grew in Europe 
as performance at the UK facility improved 
with productivity gains derived from the 
development of manufacturing expertise in 
the products formerly manufactured in 
Switzerland. An important European 
customer launched a new brand into
the Polish market featuring Filtrona’s 
proprietary Active Patch™ technology 
as the product differentiator. 
In Asia, strong revenue and profit growth 
was achieved. The transfer of the Indonesian 
business to a new and larger facility was 
successfully completed in the early part of 
the year and volumes produced in Indonesia 
were up 94.2% from 2005. 
The market conditions for the Cigarette 
Filters business in 2007 will remain 
challenging as customers respond to 
mature and declining Western markets  
with significant capacity reconfiguration. 
Customer discussions have confirmed  
that Filtrona will experience a reduction in 
volumes of conventional carbon dual filters 
during 2007 which will impact the 
Company’s facilities in both North America 
and Europe. Significant plant restructuring 
is under way to reduce costs and improve 
productivity. These actions, together with 
increased volumes in Asia, will mitigate  
the impact from the reduction in activity. 
The plant restructuring will result in an 
anticipated charge of £5m in 2007. 
Filtrona remains confident in the future 
prospects for the Cigarette Filters business 
due to the growing demand for innovative 
filters for PREPs (potentially reduced 
exposure products) and other differentiated 
tobacco smoking products and for 
research and development services. To this 
end, increased investment is planned in 
2007 to strengthen the research and 
development capability and to continue the 
progressive movement of production to 
lower cost regions.
Increased investment is planned in 2007  
to strengthen Cigarette Filters’ research  
and development capability www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16
Fibre Technologies
Cigarette Filters
Carbon filters
Carbon filters are becoming increasingly popular 
in a number of markets around the world.  
Filtrona uses circa 5 million kg of granular 
carbon each year www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18
Bonded Fibre Components continued  
to make important progress. Fibertec 
strengthened its position in its core markets 
through the development of new products 
and technologies and also experienced 
good growth in Asia. 
The Ningbo facility moved into profit as 
productivity and quality improved and  
ISO 9000:2000 accreditation was achieved 
during the year. Volumes in China 
continued to grow following production 
transfers and the development of new 
business won in the region. The pace of 
progress at Ningbo has generated the need 
for a plant expansion and construction of  
a factory extension began late in the year 
for completion in the third quarter of 2007.
The recovery of volumes in household 
products continued throughout the year  
and was assisted by customer requirements 
for multiple wicking devices in air fresheners 
which provide a selection of fragrances in 
one unit. The writing instrument product 
segment progressed well and important 
business was won in Europe and Asia  
from a principal competitor. The Reinbek, 
Germany facility performed strongly due  
to improved activity levels and the impact  
of the cost reduction programme which 
commenced in 2005. A plant upgrade 
programme at Reinbek has now begun.  
The research and development centre in 
Richmond continued to develop potentially 
valuable technologies for the medical device 
market and eleven patents were filed during 
the year.
A key customer in the pregnancy test kit 
market signed a long term contract with 
Fibertec for the supply of wicks. During 
2007 it is expected that the business will 
benefit from important new product 
introductions both in the medical and fibre 
inkjet printer reservoirs product sectors. 
Filtrona has been selected as the exclusive 
supplier of fibre reservoirs by a major US 
corporation for its entry into the inkjet  
printer market. 
People
Filtrona has 5,600 employees operating 
from 37 manufacturing facilities and 32 
distribution units in 23 countries around  
the world. During 2006, revenue per 
employee improved by 1.7% to £99,434 
and operating profit before intangible 
amortisation per employee improved  
by 2.3% to £11,255.
In support of the Company’s strategic 
objectives, Filtrona is committed to the 
recruitment, retention and development  
of the very best people commensurate  
with the Company’s scale and resources. 
The Company believes that a cultural 
environment, based on a clear set of 
Filtrona values, where employees are 
committed, involved and recognised  
for their achievements, is conducive  
to excellent business performance.
Since the demerger in June 2005, the 
Company has increased its management 
training programmes and has introduced  
a structured approach to succession 
planning together with a revised personal 
development review for performance 
evaluation. The Company operates a 
formalised graduate recruitment and 
training programme which runs over a 24 
month period and is designed to provide 
participants with core management skills. 
These programmes will develop high potential 
individuals who will be part of the future 
management team within Filtrona.
The Company remains fully committed  
to improving its health, safety and 
environmental performance and it  
is intended that all principal Filtrona 
manufacturing locations will be accredited 
to OSHAS 18001 by the end of 2008. This 
is in addition to the ISO 9000 and 14000 
standard accreditations already held.  
More information on the Company’s  
health, safety and environmental policies  
is contained in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Statement on pages  
46 to 48.
Mark Harper
Chief Executive
1 March 2007
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Fibertec has been selected as the exclusive 
supplier of fibre inkjet printer reservoirs by a 
major US corporation Medicine dispensing straw 
This patented drug delivery system, which is 
dependent on fibre components for its 
correct functioning, provides an effective 
method for delivering drugs. Each fibre 
is approximately one quarter of the 
thickness of a human hair
www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 www.filtrona.com Filtrona plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18
Fibre Technologies
Bonded Fibre Components
