 12  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s Statement
Business Review
Our strategy 13  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
Overview
Filtrona is an international, market leading, speciality plastic 
and fibre products supplier with activities segmented into 
Plastic Technologies and Fibre Technologies.
From its global network of 37 principal manufacturing 
facilities, 42 distribution operations and four research and 
development centres, Filtrona derives strength through 
serving a wide range of customers, across diverse 
geographies within a broad but targeted range of 
international markets.
In 2008, Filtrona made continued progress in its strategy of 
optimising its portfolio of businesses, including exploring 
acquisition opportunities in the higher growth, higher 
margin divisions. The acquisition of the Lendell business 
was driven by the Company’s view of the growth potential 
for the medical and cosmetic markets in which Lendell 
operates. Lendell is a manufacturer of speciality foam 
products and its specialist markets and proprietary 
technology are highly complementary with those of the 
Filtrona Fibertec business. 
During the fourth quarter of 2008, because of the 
deterioration in global economic and business conditions, the 
Company withdrew from a significant potential acquisition at 
an advanced stage. Accordingly, the Company is reporting 
£1.3m of transaction costs incurred on this strategic 
development activity in 2008, which are presented as an 
exceptional item by virtue of their size and incidence.
In accordance with the Company’s organic growth plans  
and in response to evolving customer demands, investment 
continued in securing operational efficiencies, expanding 
sales and marketing activities and developing new and 
innovative customer solutions. The Filter Products division 
continued the reorganisation of its manufacturing facilities, 
and the distribution capabilities of the Protection and Finishing 
Products division have been further developed. 
The current global recession does not impact the Company’s 
commitment to the pursuit of its strategic goals but will, 
inevitably, affect the pace at which further progress can be 
made. Organic development is likely to progress at a slower 
pace in the recessionary environment, given the sensitivity of 
some of Filtrona’s businesses to consumer demand and gross 
domestic product. The extent to which attractive acquisition 
opportunities may present themselves during 2009 is not 
easy to assess given market conditions but the Company  
will continue to investigate strategic markets and closely 
monitor target businesses that may further drive Filtrona’s 
long‑ term performance.
It is expected that global economic conditions will remain 
challenging during 2009. However, the relatively defensive 
nature of a number of Filtrona’s key served markets, combined 
with the Company’s focus on cash generation, cost control 
and reinforcement of its strong international positions give the 
Board confidence that Filtrona will continue to demonstrate 
resilience and that the Group is well positioned to deliver 
growth as demand recovers.  14  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Key Strengths
Strong international  
market positions
Long-term customer relationships
Well invested flexible global 
infrastructure
Experienced management team
Reputation for quality  
and innovation
Operational efficiency
Filtrona’s programme of continuous 
improvement and cost reductions 
across its global manufacturing and 
distribution footprint requires constant 
focus and decisive action
Strategy
Filtrona’s long‑ term objective is to continue to grow profitably 
for the benefit of its shareholders through investing organically 
in each of its divisions and by acquisition within its higher 
margin, higher growth potential businesses. The Company 
will acquire in selected markets within or complementary  
to plastic and fibre technologies. The Company’s strategic 
focus is to invest in and build on its core competencies and 
strong international positions through the investment in,  
and acquisition of, businesses which are engaged in the 
development, manufacturing, sourcing and distribution of 
high volume, low unit cost, small but essential products for 
use in consumer, medical and industrial markets.
The identification and successful exploitation of markets which 
offer significant value addition and growth opportunities 
through product innovation, distribution, service and cost 
improvements are integral to the future development of 
Filtrona as the Company seeks to enhance the competitive 
position of its global businesses.
With a responsible winning culture based on Filtrona Values 
and Key Strengths the reputation of the Company and its 
employees form a sound basis for the successful delivery of 
new business and market opportunities designed to secure 
long‑ term value for Filtrona’s shareholders.
Filtrona’s key served markets are shown in Figure 1 and 
represent important industrial and consumer product 
segments with a bias towards more defensive markets.  
From its broad and flexible manufacturing and distribution 
network, Filtrona is a supplier throughout the world to many 
blue chip, international, market leading customers with the 
top 10 customers in 2008 representing 33.1% of revenue.  
The decrease in customer concentration during the year   15  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
■ 210.3 Europe
■ 207.6 North America
■ 108.5 Rest of World
■ 42.0% Tobacco
■ 25.1% Other
■ 5.4% Fabrication and 
  machinery
■ 5.2% Oil, gas and processing
■ 5.0% Point of purchase
■ 3.8% Healthcare
■ 3.8% Vehicle (cars, trailers, 
  construction 
  and agriculture)
■ 3.5% Writing instruments
■ 3.4% Lighting
■ 2.8% Food and other 
  consumer products
■ 210.3 Europe
■ 207.6 North America
■ 108.5 Rest of World
■ 42.0% Tobacco
■ 25.1% Other
■ 5.4% Fabrication and 
  machinery
■ 5.2% Oil, gas and processing
■ 5.0% Point of purchase
■ 3.8% Healthcare
■ 3.8% Vehicle (cars, trailers, 
  construction 
  and agriculture)
■ 3.5% Writing instruments
■ 3.4% Lighting
■ 2.8% Food and other 
  consumer products
Figure 1
2008 Key served markets
Figure 2
Geographical spread of revenue (£m)
in comparison from 36.7% in 2007 is a reflection of the 
Company’s success in broadening its overall customer base.
In 2008, the geographic destination of the Company’s  
revenue was as shown in Figure 2. The Rest of World segment 
includes many of the lower cost manufacturing and higher 
growth regions such as India, Indonesia and China. This 
segment represents 20.6% of revenue in 2008, up from 19.5% 
of revenue in 2007.
Performance
Filtrona secured increases in revenue, adjusted operating 
profit, and earnings during the year despite the challenges 
presented by global economic conditions during the later 
stages of 2008 and the emergence of recessionary trends  
in some of the Company’s markets. Revenue was up against 
the prior year by 6.5% at £526.4m (2007: £494.2m) and, at 
constant exchange rates, down 0.9%. Adjusted operating 
profit was up 0.9% to £65.0m (2007: £64.4m), after absorbing  
£1.8m of restructuring costs, and down 8.1% at constant 
exchange rates.
The beneficial impact of currency translation during the year 
was £37.1m on revenue and £6.3m on adjusted operating 
profit but the improvements also reflect the resilience Filtrona 
derives from its strong international market positions. The 
robust profit performance and effective working capital 
management helped to maintain a strong operating cash 
flow at £65.6m, demonstrating the benefits of Filtrona’s cash 
generative business model.
During 2008, essential steps were taken across the Group to 
manage the cost base in the face of deteriorating market 
conditions and, regrettably, this resulted in a total headcount 
reduction of 8% in the year to 4,292 employees from 4,666 
employees at the end of 2007. The principal reductions took 
place in the Protection and Finishing Products, Plastic Profile 
and Sheet and Filter Products divisions. This enabled the 
Company to increase revenue per employee by 3.5% on a 
constant exchange rate basis. The restructuring of the Filter 
Products division continued during the year and £1.8m of 
restructuring costs are included in the operating results of this 
division in 2008.
The Company will undertake a restructuring programme in 
2009 and 2010, with the focus on the Filter Products division.  
It is estimated that the cash costs of this restructuring will be 
circa £5m in 2009 and £2m in 2010 (with additional non‑ cash 
costs of £3m over the two year period). The restructuring is 
expected to deliver savings of circa £2.5m in 2009 and £6.5m 
from 2010 onwards.
The Company experienced significant raw material  
cost increases in 2008 with polymers, which are used  
in all the Plastic Technologies businesses and the Porous 
Technologies division, and cellulose acetate tow, the principal 
raw material consumed by the Filter Products division, 
particularly severely affected. Pricing action was taken  
during 2008 to offset the raw material and energy cost 
increases. The costs of polymers fell sharply at the end of  
the year due to falling oil based feedstock prices and the  
rapid fall in manufacturing activity globally.
Operating margin declined to 12.3% from 13.0% in 2007 and 
was depressed by the combined effects of the restructuring in 
the Filter Products division, the legal costs associated with the 
intellectual property claims made against FractureCode and 
the impact of the industrial action at Boeing, which is an 
important customer of the Plastic Profile and Sheet division.  16  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Return on average operating capital, excluding intangible 
assets, reduced from 26.8% to 24.5% and the return on 
average total invested capital, including intangibles, reduced 
from 13.9% to 12.7%. These ratios were negatively impacted by 
the factors detailed above in relation to the operating margin 
performance, and by the use of average exchange rates for 
the income statement and closing exchange rates for the 
balance sheet. Adjusted earnings per share grew by 8.1% to 
18.6p (2007: 17.2p) and basic earnings per share grew by 13.1% 
to 17.3p (2007: 15.3p).
Net debt increased by £46.9m to £182.1m (2007: £135.2m) due 
primarily to exchange rate movements and the acquisition of 
Lendell. The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional acquisition fees 
increased from 1.56 in 2007 to 2.05 in 2008. If closing 
exchange rates were used in both components of the 
calculation, the ratio would have been 1.71.
The Company’s long‑ term funding arrangements comprise  
a sterling denominated multi‑ currency syndicated facility 
totalling £215m, which matures in May 2010, together with 
other uncommitted and overdraft facilities to provide short‑ term flexibility. Additionally, the Company has committed 
bilateral facilities of US$40m, which expire in November 2009. 
Based upon these maturity dates, refinancing is an important 
process for Filtrona and it is one which the Company expects 
to complete shortly. It is anticipated that net finance expense 
could double in 2009 as a result of higher borrowing costs 
and the amortisation of related fees. 
Corporate responsibility
Filtrona has built a strong framework within which corporate 
responsibility activities are managed ensuring that the 
Company maintains the high standards which reflect the 
expectations of the Company’s internal and external 
stakeholders. The success of this framework is demonstrated 
by the various initiatives introduced within Filtrona’s global 
businesses and these are reported on in greater detail in the 
Corporate Responsibility report on pages 34 to 39.
The Company again made good progress in its corporate 
citizenship during 2008 and Filtrona Values remain the 
bedrock upon which the development of the Company’s 
culture rests.
Filtrona’s development of a responsible, progressive and 
winning culture recognises the role which the Company’s 
relationship with its employees, customers, suppliers and 
other stakeholders and its interaction with the environment 
and local communities has in securing competitive advantage 
and business performance across its divisions. The 
strengthening of the international reputation of the Filtrona 
businesses and the quality of their respective brands are 
regarded as real benefits to be derived from the Company’s 
commitment to corporate responsibility in addition to the cost 
savings stemming from initiatives focused on environmental 
benefits and sustainable practices.
The skills and commitment of Filtrona employees across  
the world are fundamental to ensuring the quality and 
These results reflect the strength of 
Filtrona’s international market 
positions and the Company’s cash 
generative business model 17  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
15
17
19
21
23
25
27
29
31
33
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Feb
12 month moving average
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
08
Jan 
08
Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
08
Jan
08
12 month moving average ■  Accident trend – near misses
■  Accident trend – injury/illness
15
17
19
21
23
25
27
29
31
33
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Feb
12 month moving average
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
08
Jan 
08
Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
08
Jan
08
12 month moving average ■  Accident trend – near misses
■  Accident trend – injury/illness
competitiveness of the Company’s portfolio of products and 
services. The Company’s commitment to its employees is 
reflected in the quality and safety of the working environment 
and the personal development opportunities which it seeks  
to provide at each of its locations, without discrimination 
between site or people. There is a recognition across the 
Group of the potential impact of any business restructuring on 
affected employees and communities and Filtrona handles all 
headcount reduction programmes with due responsibility. 
Filtrona made substantial progress in its objective to gain 
OHSAS 18001 health and safety accreditation across all its 
principal manufacturing sites and, at the end of the year, 
accreditation had been achieved at the majority of its principal 
manufacturing locations. Total accidents and lost time 
accidents remain two key performance indicators within the 
Company in recognition of the primary importance of good 
health and safety when securing optimal operational 
efficiency. It was particularly pleasing that, for the first  
time, the Filtrona gold standard for health and safety was 
achieved by no less than four operations. The improvement in 
Filtrona’s health and safety performance and awareness is 
detailed above.
Filtrona’s reputation as an employer is important to ensure the 
attraction and retention of suitably motivated, experienced 
and skilled personnel. The customer and supplier perception 
of Filtrona Values and standards of conduct across a variety of 
regions and cultures can impact on the development of the 
long‑ standing business relationships which the Company has 
Accident trend – injury/illness 12 month lost time accident trend
maintained and continues to foster. Filtrona strives to maintain 
the highest ethical standards at all times in the conduct of its 
international operations.
Filtrona’s drive towards continuous improvement and cost 
reductions across its global manufacturing and distribution 
footprint requires an ongoing assessment of operational 
efficiencies and securing the benefit of potential energy, water 
and waste savings. As a responsible corporate citizen, the 
Company looks to exploit opportunities to benefit the financial 
performance of its businesses in a manner consistent with 
environmental sustainability.
The Company has the ISO14001 environmental accreditation  
at all its principal manufacturing facilities and remains a 
member of both the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust.
Mark Harper
Chief Executive
26 February 2009
