 10  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
Chairman’s Statement
Business Review
Filtrona remains a well managed 
company intent on constantly 
improving and innovating the  
way it does business
In 2008, Filtrona reported increases in revenue, adjusted 
operating profit and earnings, despite the volatile economic 
conditions experienced globally during the latter part of the 
year, and the recessionary trends which emerged in some  
of the Company’s markets. Whilst these improvements 
benefited from movements in currency exchange rates, 
particularly in the latter part of the year, as sterling weakened 
sharply against both the euro and the US dollar, they also 
reflect the resilience derived from Filtrona’s strong 
international market positions. 
Revenue was up against the prior year by 6.5% at £526.4m 
(2007: £494.2m) and, at constant exchange rates, down 0.9%. 
Adjusted operating profit was up 0.9% to £65.0m (2007: 
£64.4m), after absorbing £1.8m of restructuring costs, and 
down 8.1% at constant exchange rates. The beneficial impact 
of currency translation during the year was £37.1m on revenue 
and £6.3m on adjusted operating profit. A robust profit 
performance and effective working capital management 
helped to maintain a strong adjusted operating cash flow  
at £65.6m. 
The successful completion of the acquisition of the business 
and assets of Lendell Manufacturing Inc., based in St Charles, 
Michigan, reflects the Company’s strategy of acquiring in the 
higher growth, higher margin divisions. The integration of 
Lendell’s speciality foam manufacturing, sales and 
development capabilities into the renamed Porous 
Technologies division is proceeding well. It is anticipated that 
both Lendell and the Fibertec business will secure additional 
growth opportunities through their combination. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.08p per 
share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting on 
23 April 2009, will make a total dividend of 7.78p per share 
(2007: 7.6p) for the full year. This represents a 2.4% increase in 
the total dividend. The final dividend will be paid on 8 May 
2009 to shareholders on the register at 14 April 2009.
Steve Crummett joined the Board on 19 March 2008 as  
Group Finance Director and his experience and knowledge 
have been key in helping to guide Filtrona through the 
challenges presented by the changes in trading and  
financial market conditions. 
Adrian Auer has confirmed his intention to leave Filtrona as  
a Non‑ executive Director with effect from 30 June 2009 as he 
focuses on his other interests outside of the Group. Adrian has 
been a Director of the Company, and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, since the public listing of Filtrona in 2005, and on 
behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his invaluable 
contribution. Under the direction of the Nomination Committee, 
the recruitment process for Adrian’s replacement is under way.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year, 
together with a day of strategy discussions. The focus of the 
Board during 2008 was on seeking to secure key strategic 
developments for the Group and a number of additional 
meetings were arranged during the year to accommodate 
those discussions. For the first time, the Board undertook  
an evaluation of its performance under the direction of an 
independent third party. The individual Directors have 
responded well to address the constructive points arising  
from that review in seeking to maximise the Board’s value  
for stakeholders both internal and external to the Company. 
I am pleased to welcome new colleagues to the Group  
who have joined during the year, including those from the 
acquisition of Lendell. Filtrona values its people highly and 
their commitment, enthusiasm and professionalism will be 
key to ensuring Filtrona’s resilience in the face of demanding 
market conditions.
Filtrona remains a strong and well managed company  
intent on constantly improving and innovating the way it  
does business. It is expected that economic conditions will 
remain challenging during 2009 but the Board remains 
confident that Filtrona will continue to demonstrate resilience 
and perform satisfactorily.
Jeff Harris
Chairman
26 February 2009
On 3 March 2009, the Company announced that its subsidiary Filtrona 
Extrusion Inc. had entered into a conditional agreement for the sale of 
all the issued and outstanding common stock of the Filtrona Extrusion 
Holding Companies, which operate the North American Plastic Profile 
and Sheet business.
Completion of the sale is subject to a number of conditions, including 
the approval of the Company’s shareholders. It is expected that the  
sale will complete towards the end of March 2009. A circular setting  
out further details of the proposed sale and containing the Notice of  
a General Meeting of the Company to be held on 19 March 2009  
was posted to shareholders on 3 March 2009 and is available on  
the Company’s website at www.filtrona.com. Completion of the  
sale will be an important step in Filtrona’s strategic development. 11  Filtrona plc  Annual Report 2008
Filtrona Mission
To focus on the development of 
innovative and value added  
products and services
To deliver world class quality  
and service
To continue to develop strong  
relationships with customers,  
partners and suppliers
To continue to reduce product costs
To develop a co-operative working  
environment where employees  
are committed, involved  
and recognised for their  
contribution
…and thereby grow profitably
