 Vision 2015
Delivering	 balanced,	
profitable	 growth	
from	 the	 manufacture	
of	 millions	 of	 plastic,	
fibre	 and	 foam	
components
site	 in	 Albany,	 US.	 And	 in	 Filter	 Products	 we	 relocated	 the	 divisional	 	
head	 office	 to	 Singapore	 from	 the	 UK	 to	 be	 closer	 to	 its	 main	 markets.
Combined	 with	 rigorous	 control	 of	 our	 cost	 base,	 we	 are	 looking	 to	 	
this	 volume-driven	 revenue	 growth	 to	 fuel	 gross	 margin	 expansion.	 	
This	 will	 provide	 us	 with	 the	 capability	 to	 re-invest	 in	 sales,	 marketing	 &	
innovation	 to	 drive	 future	 revenue	 growth,	 as	 well	 as	 delivering	 continued	
improvement	 in	 profitability.	 With	 an	 equally	 keen	 eye	 on	 the	 Company’s	
financing	 and	 fiscal	 positions,	 we	 intend	 that	 our	 earnings	 growth	 is	
supported	 on	 all	 fronts.
Focusing	 on	 cash	 flow
A	 key	 measure	 of	 the	 success	 of	 Vision	 2015	 will	 be	 our	 ability	 to	 translate	
profitability	 into	 cash,	 and	 the	 strategy	 targets	 conversion	 in	 excess	 of	
100%.	 While	 we	 look	 to	 the	 underlying	 profitability	 of	 the	 Company	 to	 	
be	 the	 key	 driver	 of	 cash	 generation,	 the	 objective	 is	 to	 supplement	 that	
with	 further	 improvements	 in	 our	 net	 working	 capital	 position.	
Our	 strong	 cash	 generation	 continues	 to	 enable	 us	 to	 invest	 in	 the	 	
business.	 In	 2011,	 we	 completed	 a	 number	 of	 successful	 projects	 	
including:	 the	 expansion	 of	 taggant	 manufacturing	 at	 our	 Coated	 	
&	 Security	 Products	 site	 at	 Banbury,	 UK;	 the	 move	 to	 a	 new	 custom-	
built	 facility	 in	 Bangkok,	 Thailand	 for	 our	 Filthai	 Filter	 Products	 operation;	
ongoing	 construction	 of	 a	 new	 facility	 for	 MSI	 in	 Houston,	 US	 which	 is	 	
on	 track	 for	 completion	 by	 the	 second	 quarter	 of	 2012;	 and	 further	
capacity	 expansion	 at	 the	 St.	 Charles,	 US	 foam	 site	 for	 medical	 wound	 	
care	 products.	 We	 have	 similarly	 taken	 the	 opportunity	 to	 invest	 in	
upgrading	 or	 adding	 equipment	 and	 machinery,	 to	 ensure	 that	 our	
manufacturing	 productivity	 and	 efficiency	 supports	 our	 future	 growth	
objectives.	 At	 the	 same	 time,	 we	 have	 looked	 to	 streamline	 the	 business	
where	 appropriate,	 including	 the	 divestment	 of	 the	 FractureCode	 track	 	
and	 trace	 business	 from	 Coated	 &	 Security	 Products	 and	 the	 relocation	 	
of	 filter	 manufacturing	 from	 Monterrey,	 Mexico	 to	 our	 expanded	 facility	 	
at	 Greensboro,	 US.	 Over	 and	 above	 these	 capital	 investments,	 we	 are	
committed	 to	 returning	 cash	 to	 our	 shareholders	 through	 a	 progressive	
dividend	 policy.	
Following	 my	 appointment	 as	 Chief	 Executive	 of	 Filtrona	 on	 1	 April	 2011,	 	
I	 undertook	 a	 detailed	 review	 of	 the	 entire	 Company	 and	 its	 operations	
over	 the	 following	 months.	 What	 I	 found	 was	 a	 business	 that	 was	 essentially	 	
in	 good	 shape	 and	 doing	 many	 good	 things,	 with	 an	 international	 footprint,	 	
leading	 market	 positions	 and	 a	 loyal,	 experienced	 workforce:	 in	 essence,	
a	 business	 that	 was	 solid,	 steady	 and	 stable.	 This	 was	 a	 position	 on	 which	 	
I	 believed	 we	 could	 build.	 As	 a	 result,	 at	 the	 time	 of	 our	 half	 year	 results	
in	 August,	 we	 set	 out	 a	 more	 ambitious	 strategy	 for	 the	 Company	 for	
the	 next	 three	 financial	 years.	 It	 looks	 to	 build	 on	 the	 positive	 features	
and	 values	 which	 I	 inherited,	 while	 rekindling	 an	 appetite	 for	 growth	
behind	 key	 objectives	 and	 targets,	 and	 creating	 a	 more	 unified	 culture	
across	 the	 organisation.	 We	 have	 called	 this	 strategy	 Vision	 2015.	
Creating	 a	 virtuous	 circle	 financial	 model
From	 a	 financial	 perspective,	 Vision	 2015	 calls	 for	 balanced,	 profitable	
organic	 growth:	 a	 top-down	 model	 with	 an	 emphasis	 on	 strong	
performance	 across	 the	 board,	 rather	 than	 placing	 undue	 reliance	 	
on	 one	 particular	 metric	 to	 drive	 the	 Company’s	 results.
Filtrona	 is	 a	 high	 volume	 manufacturer,	 supplier	 and	 distributor	 of	 	
essential	 components,	 producing	 millions	 of	 units	 every	 day.	 As	 such	 	
we	 have	 looked	 to	 re-position	 the	 business	 to	 focus	 on	 revenue	 growth,	
with	 volume	 as	 the	 key	 driver.	 And	 we	 are	 already	 delivering	 against	 this	
objective,	 with	 like-for-like	 revenue	 ahead	 8%	 in	 2011	 of	 which	 volume	
growth	 represented	 6%.	 This	 revenue	 growth	 has	 come	 from	 both	 	
a	 product	 and	 a	 geographic	 perspective.	 In	 terms	 of	 products,	 we	 are	
broadening	 our	 offering	 to	 reach	 new	 end-markets	 and	 have	 stepped	 	
up	 our	 innovations	 to	 our	 customers:	 for	 example,	 in	 2011	 our	 Coated	 	
&	 Security	 Products	 division	 introduced	 a	 new	 opening	 solution	 in	 the	 	
US	 food	 market,	 while	 Porous	 Technologies	 launched	 a	 new	 range	 of	
hydrophilic	 polyurethane	 foams	 for	 advanced	 wound	 care	 applications.	
And	 in	 terms	 of	 geography,	 we	 have	 continued	 to	 increase	 our	 penetration	
in	 existing	 markets,	 while	 there	 was	 further	 investment	 with	 a	 particular	
focus	 on	 faster-growing	 economies.	 Growth	 in	 the	 Protection	 &	 Finishing	
Products	 division	 was	 supported	 by	 the	 move	 to	 larger	 distribution	
warehousing	 operations	 in	 Brazil	 and	 Poland,	 and	 we	 opened	 a	 new	 	
COLIN	 DAY	
Chief Executive
10 Filtrona	 plc	 Annual	 Report	 2011
Chief	 Executive’s	 Review Volume leverage to drive 
gross margin expansion
50% conversion to operating margin
≥ 100% proﬁt conversion to cash
Like-for-like
revenue growth ≥
mid single-digit
Progressive 
dividend
Vision	 2015	 sets	 out	 a	 more	
ambitious	 three-year	 strategy,	
building	 on	 Filtrona’s	 positive	
features	 and	 values	 while	
rekindling	 an	 appetite	 for	
growth	 and	 creating	 a	 more	
unified	 culture.	 2011	 shows	 	
we	 are	 already	 on	 our	 way
“
To	 be	 the	 leading	 global	 supplier	 of	 speciality	 	
plastic,	 fibre	 and	 foam	 components
To	 create	 sustainable	 long-term	 value	 	
for	 our	 shareholders
To	 deliver	 balanced,	 profitable	 growth	 in	 both	 our	 existing	
and	 future	 opportunity	 markets	 and	 technologies	
Prioritise	 volume	 growth	 to	 drive	 higher	 revenue	 	
and	 gross	 margin	 expansion
Re-invest	 in	 the	 business	 for	 future	 growth
Focus	 on	 strong	 translation	 of	 profit	 into	 cash
Further information on our Corporate Responsibility 
can be found on page 38. Further information on our 
Key Performance Indicators can be found on page 16.
Manage	 our	 activities	 to	 reflect	 the	 high	 expectations	 	
of	 all	 our	 stakeholders
Establish	 safe	 people	 and	 operational	 procedures,	
and	 minimise	 our	 impact	 on	 the	 environment	
Attract	 and	 develop	 motivated	 and	 highly-skilled	 employees
Conduct	 our	 business	 to	 the	 highest	 ethical	 standards
Our objective
Our strategy and operational priorities
Our responsibilities
“
Directors’	 Report
The	 Invisible	 Enablers		 |		 Filtrona	 plc	 Annual	 Report	 2011 11 Business	 Review	|	Chief	 Executive’s	 Review
Our	 vision A	 measured	 approach	 to	 acquisition	 opportunities
Vision	 2015	 seeks	 to	 complement	 balanced,	 organic	 growth	 with	 value-	
adding	 acquisitions	 across	 the	 Company	 and	 in	 2011	 we	 announced	 	
two	 transactions,	 both	 in	 our	 Protection	 &	 Finishing	 Products	 division.	 	
In	 September,	 we	 completed	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Reid	 Supply	 Company	 for	
up	 to	 US$32m,	 a	 leading	 distributor	 of	 standard	 industrial	 components,	
including	 hardware,	 handles,	 clamps	 and	 fasteners	 to	 a	 wide	 range	 of	
markets	 and	 customers.	 And	 then	 in	 late	 December,	 we	 completed	 the	
acquisition	 of	 Richco,	 Inc.	 for	 US$110m,	 a	 leading	 international	 designer,	
manufacturer	 and	 distributor	 of	 engineered	 plastic	 and	 elastomeric	
solutions	 for	 fastening	 and	 cable	 management	 applications	 in	 diverse	 	
and	 growing	 end-markets.	 In	 order	 to	 support	 our	 growth	 strategy	 	
we	 successfully	 refinanced	 our	 bank	 facilities	 during	 the	 year,	 and	 put	 	
in	 place	 competitively-priced	 £330m	 sterling	 and	 euro-denominated	 	
five-year	 revolving	 credit	 facilities.
Subsequent	 to	 the	 year	 end,	 we	 announced	 the	 acquisition	 of	 100%	 	
of	 the	 share	 capital	 of	 Securit	 World	 Ltd	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 £6m.	
UK-based	 Securit	 distributes	 desktop	 personal	 identification	 card	 systems,	
and	 will	 be	 reported	 under	 our	 Coated	 &	 Security	 Products	 division.
We	 seek	 to	 balance	 our	 measured	 approach	 to	 acquisition	 opportunities	
with	 a	 continued	 strong	 return	 on	 average	 invested	 capital.
Developing	 the	 right	 organisational	 structure
Key	 to	 delivering	 long-term	 value	 to	 our	 shareholders	 is	 the	 continued	
development,	 skills	 and	 commitment	 of	 Filtrona	 employees	 across	 the	
world.	 It	 is	 also	 essential	 that	 we	 have	 the	 appropriate	 leadership	 across	 	
the	 Company	 to	 drive	 our	 Vision	 2015	 strategic	 objectives.	 With	 that	 	
in	 mind,	 we	 established	 the	 Group	 Management	 Committee	 (“GMC”)	 	
to	 replace	 the	 previous	 Executive	 and	 Group	 Operating	 Committees,	 	
to	 promote	 a	 more	 streamlined	 and	 co-ordinated	 decision-making	 	
process.	 In	 addition,	 in	 order	 to	 strengthen	 the	 organisational	 structure,	 	
we	 created	 three	 new	 GMC	 roles:	 the	 positions	 of	 Corporate	 Development	
Director,	 Corporate	 Affairs	 Director	 and	 Group	 Commercial	 Director.	 We	
also	 established	 a	 Group	 Leadership	 Team	 (“GLT”),	 being	 the	 Company’s	
most	 senior	 executives	 and	 drawn	 from	 our	 four	 business	 divisions	 and	 	
the	 corporate	 head	 office,	 as	 well	 as	 comprising	 members	 of	 the	 GMC.
During	 the	 year,	 we	 also	 re-aligned	 and	 simplified	 the	 organisational	
structure	 within	 each	 of	 our	 four	 divisions,	 to	 focus	 and	 improve	 	
our	 go-to-market	 strategy,	 to	 optimise	 operational	 benefits	 and	 	
potential	 synergies	 from	 the	 integration	 of	 certain	 processes,	 and	 	
to	 improve	 accountability.	
We	 are	 committed	 to	 ensuring	 Filtrona	 is	 viewed	 as	 an	 employer	 	
of	 choice,	 in	 order	 to	 ensure	 the	 attraction	 and	 retention	 of	 suitably	
motivated,	 experienced	 and	 skilled	 personnel.	 As	 an	 international	
organisation,	 it	 is	 important	 that	 we	 attract	 an	 appropriate	 level	 	
of	 local	 talent,	 and	 to	 support	 both	 our	 recruitment	 efforts	 and	 	
the	 career	 development	 of	 our	 employees,	 we	 are	 establishing	 	
a	 divisional	 human	 resources	 infrastructure	 including	 investing	 	
in	 a	 dedicated	 IT	 system.	
Taken	 together,	 these	 two	 developments	 are	 aimed	 at	 better	 identifying	
talent	 and	 employment	 opportunities	 within	 the	 Company,	 facilitating	
mobility	 both	 geographically	 and	 between	 divisions,	 and	 improving	
succession	 planning	 at	 all	 levels.	 In	 2011,	 we	 also	 expanded	 the	 Filtrona	
Graduate	 Development	 Programme	 and	 the	 Group	 Management	
Development	 Programme	 from	 Anglo-American	 schemes,	 to	 include	
participants	 from	 our	 other	 international	 sites.	 It	 is	 anticipated	 that	 	
these	 programmes	 will	 be	 broadened	 further	 in	 2012.
Our	 overriding	 commitment	 remains	 the	 health,	 safety	 and	 welfare	 of	 our	
employees	 and	 all	 those	 who	 visit	 our	 operations.	 And	 notwithstanding	 	
the	 progress	 we	 have	 made	 in	 previous	 years,	 we	 continued	 to	 see	 further	
improvement	 in	 2011:	 the	 total	 accident	 trend	 declined	 and	 we	 saw	 a	
reduction	 in	 lost-time	 accidents	 in	 all	 four	 divisions.	 Indeed,	 against	 more	
stringent	 requirements	 in	 2011	 versus	 2010,	 seven	 of	 our	 sites	 received	 a	
Gold	 ranking	 in	 the	 Filtrona	 Health	 &	 Safety	 Awards,	 with	 a	 further	 nine	
achieving	 Silver	 status;	 had	 the	 criteria	 remained	 unchanged	 year-on-year,	
some	 50	 per	 cent	 of	 our	 facilities	 would	 have	 been	 received	 Gold	 awards.
Our	 responsibilities
At	 the	 heart	 of	 our	 Vision	 2015	 strategy	 is	 a	 commitment	 to	 the	 highest	
standards	 of	 corporate	 governance	 and	 responsibility,	 to	 ensure	 that	 	
the	 way	 in	 which	 we	 manage	 our	 activities	 reflects	 the	 expectations	 of	 	
all	 the	 Company’s	 stakeholders.	 As	 a	 member	 of	 both	 the	 FTSE4Good	
Index	 and	 the	 Carbon	 Trust,	 we	 recognise	 that	 our	 interaction	 with	 	
the	 environment	 and	 local	 communities	 is	 a	 critical	 component	 of	 the	
international	 reputation	 of	 Filtrona’s	 businesses	 and	 the	 quality	 of	 the	
Company’s	 respective	 brands,	 as	 well	 as	 a	 cornerstone	 of	 developing	 	
a	 responsible,	 progressive	 and	 winning	 culture.
All	 our	 principal	 manufacturing	 facilities	 hold	 the	 ISO	 14001	 environmental	
accreditation	 and,	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 recently-acquired	 sites	 (which,	 	
per	 Filtrona	 policy,	 have	 a	 period	 of	 24	 months	 to	 reach	 the	 required	
standard),	 they	 have	 also	 achieved	 the	 Occupational	 Health	 &	 Safety	
Management	 Systems	 OHSAS	 18001.	 In	 respect	 of	 the	 latter,	 our	 	
Jarrow	 site	 attained	 the	 standard	 in	 2011	 as	 targeted,	 while	 the	 BP	 Labels	
(rebranded	 as	 Payne	 Cardiff)	 and	 Stera	 Tape	 sites	 acquired	 in	 2010	 are	 	
both	 making	 progress	 towards	 its	 achievement.	 The	 Company	 also	 	
applies	 a	 standardised	 process	 to	 review	 its	 distribution	 sites	 and	 	
to	 award	 certificates	 of	 Compliance,	 Merit	 or	 Excellence.	 During	 the	 	
year,	 14 sites	 were	 assessed,	 all	 of	 which	 achieved	 an	 Excellent	 rating.
During	 the	 year,	 Filtrona	 was	 ranked	 equal	 first	 by	 the	 UK’s	 Environment	
Agency	 in	 the	 first	 Carbon	 Reduction	 Commitment	 Performance	 League	
Table.	 This	 league	 table	 is	 based	 on	 early	 actions	 that	 participating	
companies	 have	 taken	 to	 demonstrate	 their	 commitment	 to	 energy	
efficiency	 within	 their	 organisations,	 and	 is	 a	 direct	 result	 of	 the	 early	 	
action	 we	 began	 in	 2010	 under	 the	 auspices	 of	 our	 Health,	 Safety	 &	
Environment	 Council,	 including	 achieving	 the	 Carbon	 Trust	 Standard	 	
at	 all	 of	 our	 principal	 UK	 manufacturing	 sites.	
Over	 and	 above	 the	 Company’s	 carbon	 emissions,	 we	 have	 made	 further	
progress	 on	 reducing	 the	 environmental	 impact	 of	 our	 business	 in	 other	
aspects,	 with	 our	 water	 use	 and	 the	 amount	 of	 waste	 sent	 to	 landfill	
showing	 reductions	 versus	 2010	 levels.
12 Filtrona	 plc	 Annual	 Report	 2011
Chief	 Executive’s	 Review	 continued This	 year	 the	 Group	 environmental	 award	 was	 given	 to	 Payne	 India,	 whose	
submission	 demonstrated	 a	 commitment	 to	 energy	 and	 carbon	 reduction	
which,	 at	 the	 same	 time,	 strongly	 supported	 the	 local	 community.	 And	 	
I	 was	 likewise	 very	 pleased	 to	 present	 the	 2011	 Chief	 Executive’s	 Special	
Award	 to	 the	 Porous	 Technologies’	 Richmond,	 US	 site	 for	 its	 development	
of	 a	 recycle	 extruder.	 The	 extruder	 converts	 manufacturing	 waste	 into	
usable	 material	 for	 writing	 instrument	 reservoirs,	 and	 allows	 the	 production	
of	 an	 eco	 cartridge	 made	 from	 100%	 recycled	 materials.	
In	 summary
2011	 was	 a	 strong	 year	 for	 Filtrona,	 and	 one	 in	 which	 we	 have	 already	
started	 to	 make	 good	 progress	 towards	 our	 Vision	 2015	 objectives.	 And	 I	
would	 like	 to	 thank	 all	 our	 employees	 for	 their	 continued	 commitment	 and	
diligent	 efforts	 to	 deliver	 these	 results	 during	 a	 period	 of	 leadership	 change.
Our	 international	 footprint,	 combined	 with	 the	 diversity	 of	 our	 products	
and	 end-markets,	 provides	 Filtrona	 with	 a	 degree	 of	 defensiveness	 in	 	
what	 remains	 an	 uncertain	 economic	 backdrop.	 So,	 consistent	 with	 the	
more	 ambitious	 initiatives	 which	 underpin	 our	 Vision	 2015	 strategy,	 we	 	
are	 well	 positioned	 to	 deliver	 further	 balanced,	 profitable	 growth	 in	 2012,	 	
and	 anticipate	 that	 each	 of	 our	 four	 operating	 divisions	 will	 contribute	 	
to	 the	 overall	 performance	 of	 the	 Company.
As	 a	 result,	 we	 are	 aiming	 to	 continue	 to	 make	 progress	 towards	 our	 	
Vision 2015	 objectives	 of	 at	 least	 mid	 single-digit	 like-for-like	 revenue	
growth	 and	 double-digit	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	 growth	 at	 	
constant	 exchange	 rates.	
Colin	 Day
Chief Executive
22	 February	 2012
Identify key  
new product  
opportunities
Focus on faster 
growing  
markets / 
economies
Identify  
value-creating,  
complementary 
M&A opportunities
Invest in improving 
operational  
excellence  
and execution
Strengthen 
organisational  
structure and  
talent base
•	 Conversion	 of	 intellectual	 property	 and	 manufacturing	 	
know-how	 into	 commercial	 success	 across	 divisions
•	 Range	 developments	 and	 continued	 improvement	 	
in	 marketing	 effectiveness
•	 Relocation	 of	 Filter	 Products’	 head	 office	 to	 Singapore
•	 New	 filters	 factory	 opened	 in	 Thailand
•	 Transfer	 of	 pregnancy	 test	 wick	 production	 capacity	 	
and	 equipment	 to	 China
•	 Duraco	 catalogue	 launched	 in	 China
•	 Growth	 in	 Protection	 &	 Finishing	 Products	 supported	 	
by	 warehouse	 expansion	 in	 Brazil,	 Poland	 and	 China
•	 Acquisition	 of	 Reid	 Supply	 and	 Richco,	 Inc.	 in	 Protection	 	
&	 Finishing	 Products
•	 Capacity	 expansion,	 and	 investment	 in	 upgrading	 or	 adding	 	
machinery	 and	 equipment
•	 Re-aligned	 the	 organisational	 structure	 of	 each	 of	 our	 divisions,	 	
to	 improve	 the	 go-to-market	 strategy
•	 Established	 Group	 Management	 Committee	 and	 Group	 	
Leadership	 Team
•	 Created	 three	 new	 senior	 management	 roles	 to	 support	 	
Vision	 2015	 strategy
•	 Broadened	 the	 geographical	 reach	 of	 the	 Management	 	
and	 Graduate	 Development	 Programmes
•	 Established	 a	 divisional	 Human	 Resources	 infrastructure
•	 Successfully	 exploit	 innovative	 and	
manufacturing	 capabilities	 in	 new	
technologies,	 products	 and	 services	 	
across	 the	 Company
•	 Further	 expansion	 of	 international	
distribution,	 sales	 and	 marketing	 	
expertise,	 to	 exploit	 growth	 opportunities
•	 Successful	 integration	 of	 	
2011	 acquisitions
•	 Identify	 further	 opportunities	 	
across	 our	 four	 divisions
•	 Further	 investment	 to	 support	 	
revenue	 growth	 opportunities
•	 Drive	 revenue	 growth	 from	 	
our	 more	 streamlined	 divisional	 	
strategic	 business	 units
•	 Continue	 to	 grow	 and	 develop	 	
talent	 across	 all	 divisions
•	 Increase	 cross-divisional	 moves	 	
to	 enhance	 mobility
•	 Attract	 appropriate	 level	 of	 local	 	
talent	 for	 a	 global	 business
•	 Widen	 the	 geographic	 reach	 of	 	
the	 Management	 and	 Graduate	
Development	 Programmes
OUR OBJECTIVES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRIORITIES IN 2012
Directors’	 Report
The	 Invisible	 Enablers		 |		 Filtrona	 plc	 Annual	 Report	 2011 13 Business	 Review	|	Chief	 Executive’s	 Review
Moving	 forward
