 Volume leverage to drive 
gross margin expansion
50% conversion to operating margin
Like-for-like revenue growth ≥
mid single-digit CAGR
≥ 100% operating 
proﬁt conversion to cash
Progressive 
dividend









 Create sustainable long-term value  
for our shareholders
Deliver balanced, proﬁtable growth in both our existing  
and future opportunity markets and technologies 
Prioritise volume growth to drive higher revenue  
and gross margin expansion
Re-invest in the business for future growth
Further information on our Corporate Responsibility 
can be found on page 42. Further information on our 
Key Performance Indicators can be found on page 20.
Manage our activities to reﬂect the high expectations  
of all our stakeholders
Establish safe people and operational procedures, 
and minimise our impact on the environment 
Attract and develop motivated and highly-skilled employees
Conduct our business to the highest ethical standards
To be the leading global supplier of speciality plastic,  
ﬁbre and foam components
Focus on strong translation of proﬁt into cash
Our objective
Our strategy and operational priorities
Our responsibilities
Directors’ Report
Enabling Everywhere  |  Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 13 Business Review | Chief Executive’s Review
 Signiﬁcantly, it will result in our Component Distribution, Speciality Tapes 
and Porous Technologies businesses establishing a presence in India for the 
ﬁrst time. This more co-ordinated modus operandi across our operating 
divisions represents a step-change from the more ad hoc approach which 
was adopted prior to the introduction of our Vision 2015 strategy – 
particularly in terms of new market entry. Indeed, the more horizontal 
approach which we are now taking – particularly with regard to our 
expansion in the important Brazil / Russia / India / China (“BRIC”) and other 
faster-growing opportunity markets – will allow us better to leverage the 
scale and capabilities of the overall Filtrona Group, and thereby facilitate  
the delivery of our strategic objectives. 
Recent transactions have also supported the organic expansion of our 
footprint, from the acquisitions of Richco, Inc. (“Richco”) at the end of 2011 
and Jae Yong Co. Ltd (“Jae Yong”) in April 2012, to the acquisition of Ulinco 
Components AB (“Ulinco Components”) in Component Distribution and 
the formation of a joint venture in the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”) for our 
Filter Products division both announced subsequent to the year end. With 
over 70% of revenue generated outside the US, Richco has added a 
number of new geographies to our Protection & Finishing Products division, 
including Malaysia and Japan – as well as signiﬁcantly enhanced our 
manufacturing capability in China – while South Korea-based Jae Yong has 
further expanded the presence of our Porous Technologies division in the 
Asia Paciﬁc region. The acquisition of Ulinco extends our Component 
Distribution capabilities in the Nordic region, and our joint venture in the 
UAE with BBM Bommidala Group – one of India’s leading producers of 
tobacco products and by-products – both strengthens our presence in the 
growing Middle Eastern market and underscores our commitment to being 
a trusted partner to our tobacco customers on a global basis. 
In some cases, these are not only new markets for our respective operating 
divisions, but also for the overall Company, thereby providing a potential 
bridgehead for further co-ordinated expansion in the future. 

2012 saw a number of initiatives, successfully delivering against our 
objective of identifying key new product opportunities to help drive  
our revenue growth, and being supported by the capital investment  
we continue to make in the business. 
In Protection & Finishing Products, the Component Distribution businesses 
further expanded their ranges, with the introduction of some 2,500 new 
products. We also made good progress in terms of leveraging cross-selling 
opportunities – with new Richco catalogues in Asia and Europe now 
featuring Moss products as well. And, beneﬁting from a new facility, large 
tonnage presses and newly developed multi-cavity mould bases, MSI 
introduced its MaxX range of thread protectors – an innovative product line 
which is compliant with recently implemented standards in the oil and gas 
industry in the US.
Our Coated & Security Products division developed a number of new 
packaging, identity and authentication solutions, beneﬁting from the 
previous investment in state-of-the-art equipment and technologies  
which we have made. Indeed, one of the highlights of the year was 
supplying accreditation solutions to the London 2012 Games in the UK. 
Accordingly, we were very pleased that our innovation continued to gain 
recognition in 2012, with the division winning an Asian Manufacturing 
Award 2012 in the Innovation Packaging Solution category for our 
Supastrip Variable Data Print tape and, together with Northgate Public 
Services and the Department of Transport, a UK IT Industry Award for the 
Blue Badge Improvement Service. We also added to our existing capabilities 
in personal identiﬁcation products business with the acquisition of Securit 
World Ltd (“Securit”), which provides us with new opportunities in 
attractive growth segments, such as access control and membership. 
In Filter Products, our three innovation centres in Jarrow, UK, Greensboro, 
US and Surabaya, Indonesia actively supported key customers in their 
respective launches, with a 20% increase in our level of joint customer 
development activity as well as the introduction of six new proprietary 
products during the year. In addition, our investment of over £1m in our 
Scientiﬁc Services laboratory in Jarrow not only allows us to provide 
customers with a complete service of analytical and commercial testing, 
expert guidance and innovative product solutions, but also to make new 
testing methods available in order to meet evolving regulatory requirements.
Over and above its continued successful commercialisation of innovative 
new products – including negative pressure advanced wound care and 
further products using porous plastics – our Porous Technologies division 
added two exciting new capabilities through acquisition during the year. 
The Jae Yong transaction has introduced nibs and other critical components 
to the division’s existing portfolio of ink-management reservoirs for the 
writing instruments industry, so that we can now offer the broadest range 
of solutions to our customers. And the acquisition of Lymtech Scientiﬁc,  
a manufacturer and distributor of porous wiping materials, has extended 
our manufacturing technology into the complementary area of non-
woven ﬁbre. As a result, we now have access to the attractive growth  
and higher value market for clean room wipes, which are used in the 
controlled environments increasingly required in industries such as life 
sciences and electronics.

Filtrona’s Vision 2015 strategy is not just about ﬁnancial performance  
– it is also about people. Indeed, at all levels, our employees are a vital 
resource in the Company’s pursuit of operational excellence and the 
provision of quality products and service to our customers. Indeed, as  
an international organisation, it is important that we attract an appropriate 
level of local talent and enhance mobility through increasing cross-divisional 
moves. In this respect, we made good progress during the year, not only in 
terms of developing our existing employees but also in adding to our talent 
base through our recent acquisitions.
During the year, we undertook the ﬁrst Group-wide employee engagement 
survey in Filtrona’s history, which was extremely important in terms of 
gaining the views of all our people so we can ensure that the Company  
A co-ordinated approach 
to the Indian market will 
allow us better to 
leverage our Group-wide 
skills and scale
14 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012

 OUR OBJECTIVES PROGRESS IN 2012 PRIORITIES IN 2013
Identify key new  
product opportunities
 Conversion of intellectual property and 
manufacturing know-how into commercial 
success across divisions
 Continued range expansion and 
improvement in marketing effectiveness
  Further successful exploitation of innovative 
and manufacturing capabilities in new 
technologies, products and services across 
the Company
 Establishment of a Porous Technologies 
corporate ofﬁce in Singapore
 Further site roll-out in both existing and new 
markets, to improve penetration and extend 
reach in Protection & Finishing Products
 Entry into opportunity markets via acquisition 
(eg, Malaysia, South Korea)
 Acquisition of Securit in Coated &  
Security Products
 Acquisition of Jae Yong and Lymtech 
Scientiﬁc in Porous Technologies
 Successful integration of Reid and  
Richco transactions
 Strategic expansion in India, and a  
more co-ordinated approach to other 
BRIC markets
 Successful establishment of UAE joint 
venture in Filter Products
 Further expansion of international 
distribution, sales and marketing expertise,  
to exploit growth opportunities
 Successful integration of 2012 acquisitions
 Identify further opportunities across our  
four principal operating divisions
 Further investment in upgrading / adding 
machinery and equipment, and capacity 
expansion
 Re-alignment of commercial teams, to focus 
more on regional support
 Focus on go-to-market by product category
 Appointed Group Operations Director
 Successfully ﬁlled a number of key divisional 
roles, to support Vision 2015 strategy
 Undertook the ﬁrst ever Group-wide 
employee engagement survey
 Appointed dedicated Human Resources 
directors in Protection & Finishing Products 
and Filter Products
 Extended the geographical reach of the 
Management and Graduate Development 
Programmes
 Continued investment to support revenue 
growth opportunities
 Drive revenue growth from a more focused 
go to market effort by end-market 
 Greater horizontality across the Group,  
to better leverage scale and skills
 Continue to grow and develop talent  
across divisions
 Increase cross-divisional moves to  
enhance mobility
 Attract appropriate level of local talent  
for a global business
 Continue to widen the geographic reach  
of the Management and Graduate 
Development Programmes
Focus on faster growing  
markets / economies
Identify value-creating,  
complementary M&A opportunities
Invest in improving operational  
excellence and execution
Strengthen organisational structure  
and talent base
Directors’ Report
Enabling Everywhere  |  Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 15 Business Review | Chief Executive’s Review
 is a great place to work. It is also key to developing a more uniﬁed culture 
across the organisation. Translated into 19 languages and distributed to 
more than 4,000 employees worldwide, the survey saw an excellent 75% 
response rate with a strong turnout in each of our operating divisions and 
at head ofﬁce. While there are naturally areas for improvement, where 
action plans have been agreed and are being implemented, the Board and 
the Group Management Committee (“GMC”) were very pleased with the 
overall positive ﬁndings – not least that 82% of respondents are proud to 
be part of the Filtrona Group.
In 2012, we ﬁlled a number of key Group and divisional roles. At Board 
level, Matthew Gregory was appointed Filtrona’s new Group Finance 
Director from his previous role as Corporate Development Director,  
after Steve Crummett stepped down following six successful years at  
the Company.
We also created a new role of Group Operations Director, and have 
welcomed Alan Richards to the position. Alan brings extensive operations 
experience and will have oversight of our global manufacturing and 
distribution footprint, to ensure effective use of resources and the 
achievements of the beneﬁts of scale. And before the year end, we 
announced the appointment of Matt Taylor, Managing Director – 
Component Distribution to the GMC. Matt joined Filtrona in 1987,  
and in his 25 year career has held a variety of increasingly senior roles in 
those businesses. Leaving Filtrona were Robert Purcell, Managing Director 
– Protection & Finishing Products division and, shortly after the year end, 
Tony Edwards, Managing Director – Coated & Security Products division: 
both of them tendered their resignations to pursue other opportunities 
outside the Company.
2012 was also another successful year for both the Filtrona Management 
Development and Graduate Development Programmes. The two-year 
graduate programme has provided a talent pipeline for a number of years, 
and in October a record 21 people joined from across the Company. The 
programme has recently expanded into new geographies including Asia, 
and graduates from Brazil, India and Reinbek, Germany were recruited for 
the ﬁrst time this year, expanding the international scope. The 2012 intake 
will join the nine graduates recruited in 2011, and will have the opportunity 
to develop their management skills through bespoke training which takes 
place around Filtrona’s sites, giving graduates exposure to the Company.
Supporting our recruitment and talent development initiatives has been  
the roll-out of a more rigorous appraisal and succession planning process 
and the establishment of a divisional HR structure, with the appointment  
of dedicated Human Resources directors in each of Protection & Finishing 
Products and Filter Products adding to the existing divisional resources in 
Porous Technologies and Coated & Security Products. 
Our overriding commitment remains the health, safety and welfare of our 
employees and all those who visit our operations. And notwithstanding the 
very good standards we have already reached, and a signiﬁcant increase  
in our headcount, we made further progress in our health and safety 
performance in 2012. Indeed, ten of our sites received a Gold ranking in 
the Filtrona Health & Safety Awards, up from seven in 2011, with a further 
ﬁve achieving Silver status.


During the year, we made a number of organisational changes so as  
to strengthen the Group structure and to enhance our operational 
excellence further. 
At the time of our Half Year 2012 results, we announced that Enitor  
– our Netherlands-based plastic extrusions business – would be reported 
separately for external purposes as “Other” , as opposed to being reported 
under the Coated & Security Products division. Indeed, given the different 
nature and drivers of Enitor’s business, it had already been operationally 
managed separately at Group level since the beginning of the year, so  
as to allow a greater degree of focus on growth opportunities. And while 
Enitor’s end-markets proved challenging in 2012, nonetheless its standing as 
a recognised leader in the design, manufacture and supply of technical and 
innovative custom extrusions – supported by reliability and service – has 
resulted in a number of exciting new contracts, in particular a ﬁrst-time win 
with the international home products retailer, IKEA. Heading into 2013, 
Enitor aims to extend its sales into previously untapped end-markets such  
as water treatment, as well as new geographies such as North America. It is 
also focused on continuing to push the boundaries of extrusion techniques 
to stay at the forefront of technology, including exploring newer materials 
which enhance the environmental credentials of customers’ products.
In December, we announced a change to the organisational structure of 
our Protection & Finishing Products businesses. Effective from 1 January 
2013, the Component Distribution businesses are now managed under  
a common structure within three geographic regions, while MSI Pipe 
Protection Technologies will seek to leverage its more than 30 years’ 
experience and leading position in the Oil Country Tubular Goods market 
into new end-markets. These two business areas will be reported together 
as the renamed “Component & Protection Solutions division”. At the same 
time, the Speciality Tapes business of Duraco will now form part of the 
Coated & Security Products division. As identifying key new product and 
end-market opportunities is a core objective of Filtrona’s Vision 2015 
strategy to deliver balanced, proﬁtable growth, we are conﬁdent that this 
new structure will allow the Company better to exploit previously untapped 
cross-selling and end-market potential. 
Our acquisitions of Ulinco 
and Richco extend our 
capabilities in the 
sizeable Nordic region
16 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012

 Having re-aligned each of our principal operating divisions to more focused 
business units in 2011, we made further improvements to our commercial 
structure in 2012, facilitated by the appointment of our Group Commercial 
Director in January. Indeed, as with the expansion of our geographic 
footprint, there is similarly signiﬁcant scope for the Company to go to 
market in a more uniﬁed and co-ordinated way, so as to leverage better 
Filtrona’s overall capabilities, skills and customer relationships. As a result, 
we introduced regional commercial structures during the year with teams 
clustered by geography, which will allow us to provide our customers with 
an even better level of service and more co-ordinated support on a regional 
basis. We also made progress with regard to developing commercial processes 
for increased efﬁciency and effectiveness, including the development  
of common Customer Relationship Management and market-leading 
e-commerce platforms, both of which will be rolled out in 2013. 
While each of our divisions ostensibly produces very different products,  
we serve a number of common industries and customers: for example, our 
Filter Products and Coated & Security Products divisions are both trusted 
partners to the tobacco industry, while the pharmaceuticals sector is served 
by Porous Technologies for essential components and, increasingly, our 
Coated & Security Products division for labels. These are only a couple of 
examples from across the Company where, by adopting a more category-
based, horizontal approach to our product portfolio as opposed to 
operating as individual divisions, we can better exploit existing – and 
importantly, new and innovative – product and cross-selling opportunities, 
so as to become an even more important and relevant partner to our 
customers. Accordingly, we have established nine principal product 
categories – from industrial to point of purchase – from which we are 
seeking to deliver the next stage of our revenue expansion, and around 
which we will be better able to manage our key customer accounts. 

Filtrona is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance  
and responsibility, to ensure that the way in which we manage our activities 
reﬂects the expectations of all the Company’s stakeholders. As a member 
of both the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, we recognise that  
our interaction with the environment and local communities is a critical 
component of the international reputation and quality, of Filtrona’s 
businesses as well as a cornerstone of developing a responsible, progressive 
and winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities hold the ISO 14001 environmental 
accreditation and, with the exception of recently-acquired sites (which, per 
Filtrona policy, have a period of 24 months to reach the required standard), 
they have also achieved the Occupational Health & Safety Management 
Systems OHSAS 18001; in respect of the latter, the Payne Cardiff site 
acquired in 2010 attained the standard in 2012 as anticipated. In addition, 
we were very pleased to gain additional accreditation in two of our 
divisions: Payne Security was awarded the coveted Intergraf CWA 
15374:2005 certiﬁcation as an accredited supplier to the secure printing 
industry for both private and government customers, while our Component 
Distribution facility at Kidlington, UK attained the recently introduced and 
internationally recognised ISO 50001 standard on energy management. 
Attaining the ISO 50001 standard at all our manufacturing facilities by  
the end of 2014 is a Company-wide objective, and in recognition of the 
excellent work that our Kidlington site has done in being the ﬁrst to do so,  
I was very pleased to award it the 2012 Chief Executive’s Special Award.
During the year, Filtrona was placed in the top 10% of companies by  
the UK’s Environment Agency in the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Performance League Table. This league table is based on early actions that 
participating companies have taken to demonstrate their commitment to 
energy efﬁciency within their organisations, and is a direct result of the 
action which we initiated back in 2010 under the auspices of our Health, 
Safety & Environment Council.
We have also made further progress on reducing the environmental impact 
of our business in other aspects, with our water use and the amount of 
waste sent to landﬁll showing reductions versus 2011 levels. This year,  
I was very pleased to give the Group Environmental Award to the Porous 
Technologies’ Reinbek, Germany facility, for an innovative energy 
management system that has reduced and controlled energy consumption 
by 30kW per annum.

In 2012 – the ﬁrst full year of Filtrona’s Vision 2015 strategy – we continued 
to build on the promising start we made in 2011 and to make further 
progress towards our objectives. In delivering these 2012 results, I would  
like to acknowledge the efforts of all our employees and to thank them for 
their dedication and commitment as we continue to shape the Company  
– in particular, as we look to leverage our collective capabilities more 
effectively and to work together on a more horizontal, cross-divisional basis.

In what remains an uncertain economic environment, Filtrona’s 
international footprint, together with the diversity of its products and 
end-markets, provide the Company with a degree of defensiveness. 
Accordingly, we are well-positioned to deliver further balanced, proﬁtable 
growth in 2013, and anticipate that each of our principal operating 
divisions will contribute to the overall Group result. As such, we are aiming 
to continue to make progress towards our Vision 2015 objectives of at least 
mid single-digit like-for-like revenue growth and double-digit adjusted 
earnings per share growth, at constant exchange. 

Chief Executive
21 February 2013
The US remains an important 
market, with further growth 
opportunities through increased 
market penetration
Directors’ Report
Enabling Everywhere  |  Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 17 Business Review | Chief Executive’s Review
 The ﬁnancial information is prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board, and with the accounting policies set out on page 85.
Foreign exchange rates
Movements in exchange rates relative to sterling affect actual results  
as reported. The constant exchange rate basis adjusts the comparative  
to exclude such movements, to show the underlying growth of the 
Company. For the principal exchange rates for Filtrona for the year ended 
31 December 2012 (“FY 2012”), see the table opposite. Re-translating  
at FY 2012 average exchange rates reduces the prior year revenue and 
adjusted operating proﬁt by £14.1m and £2.1m respectively.
Like-for-like basis
The term “like-for-like” describes the performance of the business on a 
comparable basis, adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and 
foreign exchange. The FY 2012 results and the FY 2011 comparatives reﬂect 
the results of Reid Supply Company (acquired on 6 September 2011), Richco, 
Inc. (acquired on 21 December 2011), Securit World Ltd (acquired on  
17 February 2012), Jae Yong Co. Ltd (acquired on 23 April 2012), John R.  
Lyman Company and Big Blue Properties LLC (together “Lymtech Scientiﬁc” , 
acquired on 13 June 2012) and FractureCode (divested on 28 July 2011).
Adjusted basis
The term “adjusted” excludes the impact of intangible amortisation  
and exceptional operating items, less any associated tax relief. In FY 2012, 
intangible amortisation was £8.3m (2011: £3.7m), and there was an 
exceptional pre-tax charge of £10.6m (2011: £8.2m) mainly relating to 
integration costs and fees arising from the afore mentioned acquisitions.
Trading performance
Full year revenue was 22.7% ahead of the prior year (+26.0% at constant 
exchange rates) at £663.4m, with like-for-like growth of 11.1%. The gross 
margin rose 20bps (+10bps at constant exchange rates) to 35.9%. Ongoing 
volume leverage operational initiatives and successful pricing programmes 
to mitigate input cost increases were largely offset by the dilutive mix 
impact of the very strong revenue growth in the lower margin Filter 
Products division.
On an adjusted basis, operating proﬁt was ahead 24.6% (+27.8% at 
constant exchange rates) at £105.3m, equating to a 30bps uplift in the 
margin to 15.9% (at both actual and constant exchange rates). Operating 
proﬁt as reported was £86.4m, 19.0% higher than last year (+22.9%  
at constant exchange rates).
Net ﬁnance expense
Net ﬁnance expense was £9.5m, a £1.2m increase versus FY 2011.  
The net interest charge on net debt increased to £8.9m (2011: £8.6m), 
primarily as a result of additional debt taken on to ﬁnance acquisitions.  
The amortisation of bank facility fees increased to £1.3m (2011: £0.8m),  
the IAS 19 pension ﬁnance credit of £0.3m was lower (2011: £1.2m), while 
other interest income was £0.4m (2011: expense of £0.1m).
Tax
The effective tax rate on proﬁt before exceptional items and tax was  
29.4% (2011: 30.4%).
Net income
Adjusted net income was up 27.5% (+31.0% at constant exchange rates)  
to £67.6m. On a reported basis, net income of £53.5m increased 26.2% 
(31.1% at constant exchange rates). Fully diluted adjusted earnings per 
share of 30.7p was up 26.3% (30.1% ahead at constant exchange rates).





 18 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012

Group Finance Director

