 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
WELCOME TO ESSENTRA!
I am pleased to present this inaugural Annual 
Report for Essentra plc, and to report that in 
2013 we continued to make excellent progress 
towards our Vision 2015 strategic objectives.
Delivering balanced, profitable growth
In FY13, revenue increased 9% on a like-for-like 
basis, again well in excess of our Vision 2015 
objective of at least mid single-digit growth, 
and in an economic environment which was 
not without challenge.
Our strong performance was supported  
by continued product innovation, range 
expansion and investment in both existing  
and new geographies. Following an excellent 
performance in 2012, Filter Products delivered 
another noteworthy result, with like-for-like 
revenue growth of 17%. The division also 
successfully won significant new business  
for its innovative products, including  
a long-term agreement with a major 
multinational customer which is the largest 
individual contract in the Company’s history: 
this incremental revenue did not have a 
material impact on the FY13 results, as initial 
shipments only commenced at the very end  
of Q3. And, following a period of challenging 
end-markets, the backdrop for our Extrusion 
business started to improve in the second half 
of the year, with a strong uptick in orders in 
Q4. Indeed, as a leading international supplier,  
with strong R&D and engineering capabilities 
and a breadth of technical expertise, this more 
encouraging market outlook should position  
us well for further business wins through 
value-added innovation to customers.
With continued rigorous control of our cost 
base and the delivery of acquisition integration 
synergies and other savings initiatives, FY13 
adjusted operating profit was 23% ahead  
(at constant exchange), equating to a 40bps 
uplift in the margin to 16.3%. With a strong 
focus on our financing costs and a further 
200bps improvement in our tax rate, adjusted 
earnings per share (at constant exchange)  
rose 20% – again, well above our Vision 2015 
objective of at least double-digit growth. 
 
During the year we continued to invest  
in future revenue growth opportunities,  
with FY13 net capital expenditure of £44m: 
notwithstanding this spend, and benefiting 
from a further 40bps improvement in net 
working capital / revenue, we generated  
strong operating cash flow with a conversion 
ratio of 82%. And we reconfirmed our 
commitment to paying a progressive dividend, 
with a recommended 23% increase in the FY13  
payout to 15.4p per share.
Consistent with our strategy, we successfully 
completed a number of value-adding 
transactions which complemented the organic 
performance of the Company during the year. 
In February, we reported the formation of a 
joint venture (“ JV”) for our Filter Products 
division in the United Arab Emirates with BBM 
Bommidala Group, as well as the purchase  
of Ulinco Components AB (“Ulinco 
Components”) in Sweden in Component  
& Protection Solutions.
 
Then, in March, we announced the acquisition 
of Contego Healthcare Limited (“Contego”), 
a leading pan-European specialist business 
providing a range of innovative print, packaging 
and support services business to the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors.  
With a complementary offering to the  
existing capabilities of our Packaging & 
Securing Solutions division, fully accredited 
manufacturing facilities and a strong market 
position and experienced management  
team, the acquisition of Contego step  
changes the Company’s position in these 
attractive growth end-markets. At £156m, 
Contego was by far our largest transaction  
to date, and the Board was very pleased  
by the endorsement of the deal shown by 
the Company’s major shareholders through  
their strong support for the 9 .99% placing  
of ordinary shares which partially funded the 
consideration: the placing raised £142.7m in 
gross proceeds and the price of 675p per 
placing share represented a c. 2% premium  
to the previous day’s close.
In November, we complemented the 
acquisition of Contego and consolidated  
our position in the sizeable pharmaceutical 
and healthcare packaging markets in Ireland 
by purchasing Dakota Packaging Limited 
(“Dakota”). Finally, shortly before year end  
we completed the acquisition of Mesan Kilit 
A.S. (“Mesan”) , the leading Turkish manufacturer 
and distributor of a range of locks, hinges, 
latches and hardware accessories for use in  
a wide variety of attractive growth industries. 
With leading market positions and a proven 
track record of strong profitable growth, 
Mesan not only significantly enhances the 
offering in the growing hardware segment  
for our Components business, it also acts  
as a platform for the geographic expansion  
of our other activities in the region.
2013: a year of “horizontality”
Creating a more unified culture is a key 
objective of our Vision 2015 strategy, and  
we are pleased to report that we made 
significant progress towards that goal in 2013.
OUR VISION 2015 STRATEGY CONTINUES 
TO GAIN MOMENTUM AND TO DRIVE 
VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS.
DELIVERING BALANCED, 
PROFITABLE GROWTH
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
VISION 2015
“THE CONTINUED IMPLEMENTATION OF 
OUR VISION 2015 STRATEGY WILL ENABLE 
US TO DELIVER OUR GOAL OF BALANCED, 
PROFITABLE GROWTH.” FOR MORE 
INFORMATION SEE PAGES 18-21.
Rebranding to Essentra:  
the Essential Enablers
While we have progressively been working 
together in a more co-ordinated way over  
the last couple of years, nonetheless we  
were still not all using the same Company 
name and logo, and had thus never shared 
a common identity. Indeed, by the time we 
announced our intention to rebrand on 6 June 
– some eight years after coming into existence 
as an independent plc – we had become a 
collection of 14 trading brands. So, while we 
had started to operate more collaboratively, 
there was still some way to go in terms of 
creating a coherent Company-wide go-to-
market offering and platform for customer 
communication. Moreover, there was very  
little physical linkage between the operating 
brands, with each business having its own 
signage, workwear and e-mail address.  
Such a disparate approach was acting as  
a brake on our goal of creating a more 
cohesive and engaging culture for our people, 
as well as being inefficient from both a cost 
and a time perspective.
 
In summary, we strongly believed that 
maintaining the status quo was likely,  
at some point, to constrain the delivery  
of our objectives for Vision 2015 and beyond, 
and that, accordingly, rebranding was an 
important and logical milestone in the 
Company’s evolution.
Although each of our businesses manufactures 
and distributes a diverse and ostensibly 
unconnected range of products, what unites 
us as an organisation is that we are a leading 
supplier of essential components to our 
customers. As such, Essentra – an abstract 
name – was specifically chosen to capture 
what each of our businesses manufactures 
and supplies; namely millions of small but 
essential components which often play a 
critical enabling role in the products of the 
Company’s customers, everywhere and every 
day. The selection of a new brand took over  
a year of planning, extensive research and 
testing, and we believe that the new identity  
of Essentra best represents and clearly 
encapsulates what the Company does, 
is and aspires to be. 
Having formally rebranded the parent 
company to Essentra on 26 June, the individual 
businesses migrated in the second half of the 
year, with the majority of our sites being 
renamed on 14 October and the remainder by 
year-end – as scheduled. 
The Board and the Group Management 
Committee (“GMC”) are very pleased with  
the feedback which we have received to date 
on our rebranding. In terms of our customers, 
they are already gaining a greater awareness 
of the Company’s entire product and service 
offering, with more co-ordinated communication 
behind a single visual identity; while our investors 
recognise our new common platform behind 
which the entire organisation can mobilise, so 
as to continue to deliver sustained balanced 
profitable growth. 
However, it is from the perspective of our 
people – who have previously only been only 
loosely affiliated with “the Company” – that 
we are particularly encouraged, in terms of  
the way in which the Essentra brand has been 
embraced. It has also provided a catalyst for 
co-ordinating, updating and rethinking the 
way in which we communicate – both 
externally and internally, and from digital  
to printed formats – and, with the parent 
company having provided the rebranding 
guidelines and framework, we have been 
impressed by the way in which these have 
been interpreted and executed by our various 
businesses, all under the Essentra umbrella. 
Indeed, one of the areas which we have 
reinvigorated is our Corporate Values (see  
page 53): while the sentiment has not 
changed, we have taken the opportunity of 
using the prominent “E” of the Essentra logo  
to present our core beliefs in a more succinct 
and engaging way which is in keeping with  
our new communication style. 
Clearly it is still relatively early days to judge 
the success of the rebranding and the return 
on the £2.4m exceptional cost incurred in  
the process. However, we are convinced that, 
through working in a more co-ordinated  
way and leveraging our collective skills and 
capabilities under a single brand, we can 
benefit all our stakeholders. As such, the 
rebranding not only helps to underpin the 
delivery of our Vision 2015 strategic objectives 
in its final year, but also appropriately reflects 
our future ambitions. 
Moving towards a matrix  
organisational structure
It is imperative that we continue to evolve  
as Essentra becomes larger, to ensure that  
we maximise the opportunities available to  
the Company and, thus, the value we deliver  
to our shareholders.
During the year, we introduced a new 
organisational structure for our faster-growing 
opportunity markets, which has resulted in the 
appointment of dedicated General Managers 
in India, China and Latin America. Together 
with our Group Commercial Director, and  
with appropriate input from business-level 
management, these General Managers are 
responsible for maximising Essentra’s presence 
in their respective territory. As a result, we are 
now going to market in a more 
COLIN DAY
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  16 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT
category-focused way, benefiting from the  
skills we have across our divisions to serve key 
customers better and to become a more 
relevant and important partner to them.
Then, towards the end of 2013 and as a logical 
next step to our more horizontal approach  
to faster-growing markets, we announced  
our intention to introduce a new regional 
organisational structure. This will supplement 
our divisional structure, and is designed as  
a growth enabler – to ensure that we operate  
in a more cohesive and co-ordinated way,  
so as to optimise and unify our investments, 
processes, resources and go-to-market  
efforts around the world. 
 
As a result, we will adopt more of a matrix 
organisational structure that will deliver 
greater in-market accountability and 
responsibility, and will better allow us to  
benefit from our collective capabilities  
and operate in a more efficient way.
The new structure groups our operations into 
three geographic regions – Europe, Americas 
and Asia – ultimately each with a small 
dedicated management team comprised  
of key business functions, including Finance, 
Commercial, Operations, Legal & Compliance 
and Human Resources. The role of these teams 
will be to drive “today’s business” in terms of 
in-market execution (ie, commercial, 
production and back office support), with the 
divisions taking responsibility for those activities 
of a longer-term, more strategic nature which 
will underpin “tomorrow’s business” (including 
planning, M&A, product innovation and range 
development).
To facilitate greater co-ordination between our 
businesses, so as to maximise the opportunities 
in each respective region, we have also decided 
to organise our divisional activities into two 
Strategic Business Units (“SBUs”): Distribution, 
which will encompass the Components business, 
and Specialist Technologies, which will include  
all our other activities.
 
A regional organisational structure has  
already been implemented by our Components 
business as well as in Health & Safety, with 
Human Resources and IT also managed along 
regional lines with effect from 1 January 2014, 
 so we have already made some progress 
towards this end. However, it is neither possible 
nor desirable to achieve these changes – which 
we expect to be cost-neutral – in one step,  
and therefore we will be phasing the 
integration process over the course of 2014.  
As 2014 will, thus, be a year of transition, we  
will retain our current divisional segment 
 analysis for the purpose of internal and  
external financial reporting.
Working together more collaboratively
In 2012, we established a number of principal 
product categories – from “industrial” to “point 
of purchase” – from which to deliver the next 
stage of our revenue expansion, and we made 
further progress in terms of exploiting existing 
– and importantly, new and innovative – 
product and cross-selling opportunities in  
2013. One such example was the launch of 
AquaSense™, a label concept developed and 
jointly patented by our Packaging and Porous 
Technologies businesses, and designed to help 
maintain and control freshness by storing and 
releasing water through its unique structure  
and material technology. An additional and 
more wide-ranging example of collaboration 
has been a Company-wide project assessing  
our collective capabilities to serve the rapidly 
growing e-cigarette market. Following 12 
months of intensive inter-divisional research into 
the industry itself and the substantial range of 
products available, we believe that as a 
Company we are well-positioned to act as a 
key supplier of high quality components – not 
merely of filters, but also of liquid / vapour 
handling solutions, extruded plastic, 
components and packaging – and will be 
seeking to commercialise our offering in 2014.
We are also increasingly either leveraging  
our site footprint in a more optimal way  
or, where we are investing in new facilities, 
ensuring that these provide opportunities  
to consolidate our respective businesses under 
one roof. In Germany, where our Components 
business required additional warehousing,  
we have successfully freed up space at Reinbek 
through transferring a portion of Filters activity 
to Hungary: this reconfiguration saved us €6m  
of capital expenditure that would have been 
incurred in building a new site. In India, our 
new 70,000 sq. ft. bespoke facility, which 
became operational in November as scheduled, 
has the capacity to accommodate 
manufacturing, warehousing and the 
appropriate infrastructure for all Essentra’s 
business activities. And our £7m newly-
constructed Components distribution centre 
at Kidlington, UK, not only allows us to deliver 
a wider choice of standard products next day, 
but will also act as a hub for servicing our UK 
and European network. 
Our Group Operations Director and  
his team are continuing to review our  
footprint, to identify further opportunities  
for rationalisation and efficiency savings 
through adopting a more Company-wide 
approach to our manufacturing and 
distribution capabilities.
Further strengthening the talent base
At all levels, our employees are a vital resource 
and we made a number of key appointments 
across the Company in 2013.
On the GMC, we welcomed Stefan Schellinger 
to Essentra as Corporate Development 
Director. Stefan brings significant mergers  
and acquisitions experience, and will be 
responsible for the development of Essentra’s 
overall strategy as well as the pipeline of 
potential transactions.
As leaders of our matrix organisational 
structure, we announced the appointment  
of Hugh Ross, Brett York, Scott Fawcett  
and Martin Dallas to the newly-created  
GMC positions of Managing Director – Europe, 
President – Americas, Managing Director – 
Distribution and Managing Director – Specialist 
Technologies respectively. We also filled the 
General Manager roles in China, India and Latin 
America to drive the development of our 
Left:
Design is a vital part of  
the packaging process, 
and our expertise in this 
area allows us to add value 
to our customers’ packs 
and help deliver a crucial 
competitive advantage
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
overall business activities in their respective 
markets, as well as created the position  
of Group Procurement Manager with 
responsibility for establishing sourcing and 
procurement strategies for Essentra and 
ensuring best cost and supply for all businesses 
and categories of spend.
 
During the year there were certain departures 
from the GMC, in addition to which Alan Tidy 
advised us of his wish to retire from his position 
as Group Human Resources Director, although  
he will continue to serve as Chairman of the 
Essentra Pension Plan Trustee Board and to 
undertake additional consultancy work for the 
Company as required following his retirement.
Alan will be succeeded by Gavin Leathem in 
March 2014. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank those fellow GMC colleagues 
leaving Essentra for their dedication and 
commitment to the successful delivery  
of our Vision 2015 strategy to date. 
Both the Essentra Management Development 
and the Graduate Development Programmes 
enjoyed further success in 2013. The two-year 
graduate programme has provided a talent 
pipeline for a number of years and, in 
December, 15 people joined the scheme  
which continues to expand its international 
reach, with graduates from Hungary, India  
and Thailand among those recruited. The 2013  
intake will join the 21 graduates recruited in  
2012, and will have the opportunity to develop 
their management skills through bespoke training 
which takes place around Essentra’s sites, giving 
graduates exposure to the business while 
carrying out an operational role from day one.
In summary, the Board and the GMC  
have no doubt that through rolling out  
our new organisational structure, we will  
be able to provide a more diverse range 
of career development opportunities across 
functions, markets and regions, which will  
help us to better attract and retain talent 
in the Company.
Reinforcing our track record in  
health and safety
Essentra’s overriding concern in the workplace 
continues to be the health, safety and welfare 
of all its employees and those who visit the 
Company’s locations, as well as those who 
carry out work on our behalf. And during the 
year, we established a regional leadership 
team to help drive further improvements in  
the standards which the Company has already 
achieved. Indeed, the appointment of Regional 
HSE Managers in Europe, Americas and Asia, 
together with a dedicated Systems Manager 
responsible for the collection, analysis and 
reporting of critical information, will not only 
provide a source of geographical expertise,  
but will also facilitate the rapid implementation 
of standards and the sharing of best practice 
across Essentra. 
As the global legislative backdrop for HSE 
continues to change apace, we believe that 
the adoption of this regional structure will 
further enhance both the quality and 
timeliness of our internal data capture and 
review systems, and thus is a critical element 
of our compliance strategy in these areas.
Our responsibilities
Essentra is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
responsibility, to ensure that the way in  
which we manage our activities reflects  
the expectations of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As a member of both the 
FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust,  
we recognise that our interaction with the 
environment and local communities is a 
critical component of the international 
reputation and quality of Essentra’s 
businesses, as well as a cornerstone of 
developing a responsible, progressive and 
winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities hold 
the ISO 14001 environmental accreditation  
and, with the exception of recently-acquired 
sites (which, as per Essentra policy have a 
period of 24 months to reach the required 
standard) they have also achieved the 
Occupational Health & Safety Management 
Systems OHSAS 18001; in respect of the latter, 
the Speciality Tapes site in Bridlington, UK 
attained the standard in 2013 as anticipated.
Attaining the ISO 50001 energy management 
standard at all our manufacturing facilities by 
the end of 2014 is a Company-wide objective, 
and we made further progress towards that 
goal during the year.
Essentra is committed to energy efficiency 
within our organisation and we have continued 
to improve our performance on this front: at 
the same time, we have also further reduced 
the environmental impact of our business in 
other aspects, with our War on Waste initiative 
delivering better utilisation – and reuse –  
of raw materials across the Company.
In summary
In the second full year of Essentra’s Vision  
2015 strategy, we made further strong  
progress towards our objectives during  
2013 – particularly in terms of implementing  
initiatives aimed at greater co-ordination  
and at leveraging more effectively our 
collective skills. In delivering these results,  
I would like to acknowledge the efforts of all 
our employees, and to thank them for their 
continued dedication and commitment. 
And as we enter the final 12 months  
of Vision 2015, we remain committed to 
continuing to evolve the business to maximise 
the potential opportunities available to the 
Company, not only to underpin the successful 
delivery of our objectives in 2014 but also our 
ability to generate long-term value for our 
stakeholders. The Board and the GMC are 
collectively engaged in formulating the 
strategy that will take Essentra beyond 2015, 
and we look forward to sharing it towards  
the end of 2014.
Outlook
The diversity of our products and end- 
markets, together with our international 
footprint, provides Essentra with a degree  
of defensiveness in an environment where 
economic recovery is still at a very early stage. 
As a result, we are well-positioned to deliver 
further balanced, profitable growth in 2014, 
and are aiming to continue to make progress 
towards our Vision 2015 objectives of at least 
mid single-digit like-for-like revenue growth 
and double-digit adjusted earnings per share 
growth, at constant exchange.
COLIN DAY
Chief Executive
20 February 2014
Above:
Our friendly and 
knowledgeable call centre 
operatives make it easy  
for our Components’ 
customers to do business 
with us
