 FURTHER PROGRESS IN 
DELIVERY OF VISION 2015
AS ESSENTRA HAS CONTINUED ITS STRONG GROWTH, 
THE BOARD HAS MADE FURTHER PROGRESS IN 
RESPONSE TO THE INCREASING DEMANDS OF  
THE GOVERNANCE AGENDA.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
In 2013 Essentra continued to deliver  
its Vision 2015 strategic objectives, with 
impressive organic growth supported by 
value-adding transactions. Indeed, both 
recent acquisitions and an increasingly 
co-ordinated and horizontal management 
approach have established a strong 
foundation for further development of  
the Group’s operations in both existing  
and new markets and geographies. 
Risk appetite
The Board continues to focus on strategy  
and sets the performance targets for the 
Group. The executive management team is 
empowered to deliver those targets, through 
appropriate levels of delegated authority and 
support. During the year the Board reviewed 
the risk appetite for the Group and maintained 
its focus on ensuring the appropriate balancing 
of risk and reward in the Company’s pursuit  
of its strategic objectives, overseeing the 
delivery of continued strong growth, within  
the parameters of the Board’s established 
appetite for risk.
Board responsibilities
The rigorous monitoring of financial and 
operational performance has remained 
fundamental to the fulfilment of the Board’s 
responsibilities during the year. The pace of 
development within the Group remains 
founded on strong governance, based on 
transparency and integrity driven by an 
effective Board, with appropriate internal 
controls and a comprehensive understanding 
of risk. 
Code compliance
I am pleased to confirm that the Group 
complied throughout the year with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, except 
for the period between February 2013 and the 
beginning of July 2013 when the Committees 
operated with only two independent directors. 
This was rectified in July 2013 with the 
appointment of new Non-Executive Directors.
 
The required regulatory and governance 
assurances are provided throughout this 
report. The Board has received regular updates 
on the various legislative and governance- 
related developments which occurred during 
the year, and I am committed to ensuring that 
the highest standards of governance and 
compliance are maintained across the Group. 
Audit Committee
The work of the Audit Committee has 
continued to focus on the integrity of  
financial reporting and the oversight of  
the risk management process and internal 
controls across the Group. The latest 
governance requirements provide for  
the Committee to give a more detailed 
assessment of the key matters under 
consideration and the potential impact  
on the financial statements for the year. 
During the year the Group Assurance  
function developed and implemented a  
new risk framework which has been developed 
using real time on-line reporting. This will 
continue to ensure the Company’s expansion 
does not prejudice the strength of its controls 
and processes.
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee 
continued to be challenging during 2013, 
seeking to reward executives fairly for some 
very strong results and setting remuneration  
at levels which will attract new key executives 
to the Group, while being sensitive to the 
restraint expected in the current economic 
environment. The importance of the drive to 
attract, retain and motivate the team required 
to deliver the objectives of Vision 2015 and 
beyond necessitates the Remuneration 
Committee to ensure that the Company’s 
practices and incentives are appropriate, 
while maintaining a clear alignment with  
the interests of shareholders. Indeed, the high 
levels of share ownership required of the Group 
Leadership Team, illustrate the commitment  
to ensuring that alignment. 
Core values and behaviours
I strongly believe that good governance is 
founded on the core values and behaviours 
established by the Board and communicated 
throughout the Group. The Company has a 
strong culture of high standards of business 
ethics based on clear principles. The Board’s 
participation in the Company’s compliance 
training programmes, and its commitment to 
the development of new policies and practices 
in response to the increasing level of regulation 
impacting its global operations, serves to 
ensure that the “tone from the top” is clearly 
understood and reinforced.
As the Group continues to grow in size and 
complexity, one of the greatest challenges 
facing the Board is to ensure that we have  
in place the right people, culture and processes  
to exploit fully the opportunities for further 
balanced growth, and to manage effectively 
the risks to which the business is exposed.
Board evaluation
It is essential that the Company has a fully 
engaged and committed Board with an 
appropriate mix of skills, experience and 
knowledge, which is capable of engaging in 
positive and constructive debate to meet such 
challenges. The Board re-engaged Lintstock to 
undertake the annual review of the Board and 
its Committees and the individual directors, 
including myself.
Following a full evaluation last year, the process 
this year consisted of a questionnaire tailored 
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER ETHICAL 
We are open and 
honest, acting  
with integrity in  
our dealings with 
stakeholders and  
with respect for  
the environment.
ESTEEM
We treat others  
as we would wish  
to be treated 
ourselves – with 
dignity, respect  
and fairness.
ENERGY
We are unstinting in  
our drive for continuous 
improvement and  
in our commitment  
to maximise value  
for our shareholders.
ENTHUSIASM
We are passionate 
about what we  
do, celebrating  
our successes and 
learning from  
our experiences.
EXCELLENCE
We strive to exceed 
expectations,  
every day and in 
everything that  
we do.
ENTERPRISE 
We aspire to think 
differently and  
to challenge 
the status quo.
“ I AND THE BOARD CONTINUE TO SEEK 
WAYS IN WHICH WE CAN ENSURE THAT 
ESSENTRA’S GOVERNANCE DELIVERS 
ADDITIONAL VALUE FOR THE BENEFIT  
OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS”
JEFF HARRIS
to the specific circumstances of Essentra, that 
reiterated the importance of ongoing training 
for Directors in seeking to ensure clear 
understanding of material developments  
and issues potentially impacting the Company. 
Ensuring best practice risk management is  
a key priority of the Board and it is intended  
to undertake an externally facilitated review  
to drive further improvements in the Board’s 
performance in the oversight and 
management of risk, within clearly delivered 
parameters which are established and 
understood across the Group. 
The Lintstock report concluded that the Board 
continues to fulfil its responsibilities effectively, 
and that its performance has continued to 
improve. In response to the issues identified in 
last year’s review, the Board and the Executives 
worked hard to ensure the Board was focused 
on the key strategic issues facing the Company 
and that meetings and agendas reflected the 
appropriate balance. A focused strategy 
day outside of the usual Board business 
provided a great opportunity to discuss the 
future development of the Company afresh. 
Changes to the composition of the Board 
have also contributed to developing the 
interaction between Directors and the 
management teams. It is planned that 
external Board monitoring will be undertaken 
in the future. 
There is no related party connection with 
Lintstock, other than the work carried out  
on an arm’s length basis.
Employee engagement
I visited a number of Essentra facilities  
during the year and plan to tour a number  
of other sites during 2014. I am always  
greatly impressed by the commitment and 
enthusiasm of my colleagues wherever I travel 
in the world. In particular, a visit to three of our 
sites in the US reminded me of the diversity of 
the operations within the Group. The Board 
visited the Company’s facilities at Jarrow and 
Portsmouth, UK in September and also at 
Houston, US in October. It is anticipated that 
Board meetings will continue to be held  
at at least two operational sites during 2014,  
to ensure the Board remains in touch with local 
managements and teams.
As you will have seen, the Group successfully 
rebranded to Essentra plc during 2013. The 
Board and I are particularly pleased with  
how this change has been embraced so 
enthusiastically by my colleagues around  
the world, which has helped to increase the 
cohesion of the Group amongst Essentra 
employees worldwide.
 
Board changes
We significantly strengthened the Board  
during the year with the appointment of  
two independent Non-Executive Directors, 
ENTHUSIASM EXCELLENCE ENERGY
ESTEEM ETHICAL ENTERPRISE
CHAIRMAN
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM 53 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
ESSENTRA VALUES Peter Hill and Lorraine Trainer. Both have 
enjoyed highly successful executive careers, 
and bring to the Company a wealth of Board 
experience and insight, gained in a variety of 
industries and over a number of years. 
Paul Drechsler will be stepping down as the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director,  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and also as a member of the various Board 
Committees following the 2014 AGM. Paul  
has been a Non-Executive Director since  
the formation of the Company in 2005,  
and as such will, in accordance with the 
Corporate Governance Code, no longer be 
considered as independent after May 2014.  
We are pleased that Paul will continue as a 
Non-Executive Director such that the Board 
and the Committees continue to receive the 
benefits of his experience and knowledge  
of Essentra.
Following the 2014 AGM, it is intended that 
Lorraine Trainer will be appointed as the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
subject to her election as a Non-Executive 
Director. Lorraine has some 20 years’ 
experience in the Human Resources field, and  
I am sure she will lead the Committee through 
the continuously changing and challenging 
environment in which it operates.
Terry Twigger, who has been a member of the 
Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee
since June 2009 , will be appointed as the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 
subject to his election as a Non-Executive 
Director.
During 2014 I anticipate that the Board  
will move forward with plans to add a new 
Non-Executive Director as we conclude the 
refreshment of the Board, to secure the skills 
necessary to drive the next stages of the 
Company’s growth beyond Vision 2015 and 
provide appropriate ongoing succession planning.
I joined the Board at the same time as  
Paul, and I have committed to continue  
in my role as Chairman to ensure continuity, 
particularly in light of changes to the 
composition of the Board.
The Board noted with regret the passing  
of Lars Emilson in June 2013. Lars resigned  
as a Non-Executive Director in February 2013 
on health grounds, having served on the Board 
since 2007 . He was a valued colleague who 
made a significant contribution to the 
development and success of the Company, 
and will be sadly missed by all who worked  
with him.
Succession diversity
The Nomination Committee will continue  
its work, having proper regard to the benefits  
of diversity, to ensure that the composition  
of the Board continues to be appropriate for 
the Company as it makes further progress 
towards its strategic objectives. The Board’s 
commitment remains to ensuring that it 
employs the best people to do the best job  
for the benefit of the Group and its shareholders, 
in line with its diversity policy. And during  
the year there have been a number of senior 
management changes as the Group seeks to 
secure a talent base capable of delivering its 
strategic objectives. 
While the Nomination Committee primarily 
devotes its attention to Board succession,  
the Board has increased its focus on reviewing 
the quality of executive management and the 
processes for finding and developing a diverse, 
mobile and international talent base. Additional 
resources have been made available to  
pursue this objective, with the implementation  
of an improved global talent management 
system to identify and manage the  
Company’s pipeline. 
The Graduate Development Programme 
continues to recruit from different universities 
in several countries, and the success of this 
development programme can readily be seen 
in the high number of graduates now working 
internationally in a number of key management 
roles across the Group.
Governance agenda
In summary, as the Company continues  
its strong growth, we have made excellent 
progress in response to the increasing 
demands of the governance agenda, both 
internally and externally. However, just as  
the Company continually looks for new  
ways to improve its financial and operational 
performance, I and the rest of the Board 
remain receptive to ways in which we can 
develop our practices, to ensure that the 
Company’s governance delivers additional 
value for the benefit of shareholders.
JEFF HARRIS 
Chairman
20 February 2014
Strategy  
– Deliver further progress towards 
strategic objectives of Vision 2015  
and beyond
Financial performance
 –  Continued delivery of balanced 
profitable growth
 – Improve year on year dividend
Succession planning  
– Maintain focus on international 
talent management 
Risk  
– Secure value from improved 
management of risk 
Compliance  
– Ensure tone from the top drives 
highest standards of behaviours 
 > Review of performance and benchmarking 
against Vision 2015 objectives
 > Delivery of four acquisitions and one JV
 > Approval of investment opportunities  
to drive future growth 
 > Continued improvement in revenue
 > Margin improvement
 > Increased dividend
 > Appointment of two Non-Executive Directors 
 > Review of talent base in conjunction with 
move to a new matrix structure 
 > Development of talent programmes 
 > Further review of risk management practices
 > Assessment of cyber security risk 
 > Review of developments in the governance 
and compliance landscape
 > Further focus on compliance activities 
 > Developing strategic objectives  
beyond 2015
 > Continue developing the organisation 
structure to drive future growth
 > Continued improvement in revenue
 > Increased profitability 
 > Dividend progression
 > Drive ROCE
 > Ensure succession planning within new 
organisation structure
 > Oversee talent management programmes 
for key personnel 
 > Ensure alignment of risk appetite with 
strategic objectives
 > Drive continuous improvement in risk 
management practices
 > Further develop understanding of the 
management of IT system risk 
 > Reinforce and closely monitor leaderships 
commitment to the tone
 > Ensure compliance programmes respond  
to new vulnerabilities or concerns
2013 OBJECTIVES PROGRESS 2014 PRIORITIES
54 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOOK 1 OF 2 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER CONTINUED
