 In the final year of Vision 2015, I am 
pleased to report that in 2014 we  
again successfully delivered our  
strategic objectives.
Delivering balanced, profitable 
growth in 2014 …
In FY 2014, revenue increased 9% on 
a like-for-like basis – well ahead of our  
“at least our mid single-digit growth” 
objective – with this strong result being 
supported by investment in both existing 
and new geographies, improved marketing 
effectiveness and continued product 
innovation.
FY 2014 adjusted operating profit rose  
16% (at constant exchange), equating  
to a 30bps uplift in the margin to 16.5%. 
This improvement came from the delivery 
of acquisition integration synergies and 
other savings initiatives – combined with 
ongoing discipline around our underlying 
cost base. Financing costs benefited from  
the successful refinancing of our banking 
facilities at more favourable rates in July 
and, combined with a further 250bps 
improvement in the tax rate, adjusted 
earnings per share (at constant exchange) 
increased 19%, again well in excess of our 
“at least double-digit growth” objective.
2014 saw further investment in future 
revenue growth opportunities, with  
capital expenditure of £38m. However, 
notwithstanding this spend, our operating 
cash flow conversion ratio remained strong 
at 75%, and was boosted by a further 
10bps improvement in underlying net 
working capital / revenue. Underpinned  
by this strong cash flow generation, we 
again confirmed our commitment to 
paying a progressive dividend, with  
a recommended increase in the FY 2014  
payout of 19%, to 18.3p per share.
Consistent with our strategic objectives, 
we successfully completed a number of 
value-adding acquisitions to complement 
the organic performance of the Company. 
In Component & Protection Solutions, 
we undertook a number of attractive 
bolt-on transactions in 2014, which have 
not only expanded our product offering 
to customers but also provided compelling 
entry points into new geographies. First, 
in January, we announced that we had 
purchased Mesan Kilit A.S. (“Mesan”),  
the leading Turkish manufacturer and 
distributor of locks, hinges, latches and 
hardware accessories for use in a wide 
variety of attractive growth end-markets. 
Then in April, we reported the acquisition 
of Kelvindale Products Pty Ltd 
(“Kelvindale”) in Australia, a leading 
manufacturer and distributor of an 
extensive range of plastic protection  
and finishing products. And finally, in 
December, we announced that we had 
completed the acquisition of 100% of the 
share capital of the major operating 
subsidiaries of Abric Berhad (“Abric Seals”), 
a global leading manufacturer and 
distributor of security sealing products  
and solutions based in Malaysia.
Separately in Packaging & Securing 
Solutions, in November we announced 
an agreement to acquire the Specialist  
Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group 
(“Clondalkin SPD”), a leading global 
provider of a broad suite of speciality 
secondary packaging solutions for the 
pharmaceutical, health and personal care 
industries. With 24 facilities in North 
America and Europe, Clondalkin SPD 
transforms our existing geographical 
capabilities to pharmaceutical and 
healthcare customers who are increasingly 
seeking a global partner for their packaging 
requirements. In addition, Clondalkin SPD’s 
complementary portfolio of folding carton, 
product literature and labels not only 
broadens the range and innovation offered 
to these targeted end-markets, but also 
significantly enhances Essentra’s position  
in the growing personal care and beauty 
packaging industry.
Valued at approximately US$455m, 
Clondalkin SPD is by far the largest 
transaction we have undertaken to date, 
and the Board was very encouraged by  
the support for the deal shown by the 
Company’s major shareholders through 
their participation in the 9.99% placing of 
ordinary shares which partially funded the 
consideration. With a price of 713.5p per 
placing share – at par with the previous day’s 
close – the placing raised gross proceeds of 
£168.8m. The acquisition of Clondalkin SPD 
completed on 30 January 2015.
During the year, we also continued our 
investment in our site footprint, as well  
as identified further opportunities for 
rationalisation and efficiency savings 
through adopting a more Company-wide 
approach to our manufacturing and 
distribution capabilities. In Newport, UK, 
we opened a purpose-built 52,000 sq. ft. 
labels manufacturing facility, incorporating 
the latest in digital printing capability and 
the best in cleanroom technology, to meet 
the growing needs of the Company’s 
targeted healthcare and consumer 
packaging end-markets from a world-
class operation. In Louisville, US, our  
new warehousing and distribution facility 
not only allows us to provide an even  
wider choice of standard Components 
products for rapid delivery, but is now  
also holding speciality wipes and other 
porous components, and has the scope  
to accommodate more of Essentra’s 
products over time. And in Alta Parana, 
Paraguay, what was previously just a  
Filter Products manufacturing site has 
received investment in additional capacity 
and tear tape slitting equipment, providing  
a cost-effective way of expanding our 
presence in Latin America.
… and over the course of Vision 2015
Back in 2011 when I joined the Company, 
I said that I had found a business that  
was essentially in good shape and doing 
many positive things, with an international 
footprint, leading market positions and 
a loyal, experienced workforce: in essence, 
a business that was solid, steady and 
stable. At the same time, I stated that 
the introduction of Vision 2015 represented 
a more ambitious strategy for the 
Company, looking to build on the positive 
features and values which I inherited,  
while rekindling an appetite for growth 
behind key objectives and targets, and 
creating a more unified culture across the 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW organisation. In reviewing the Company’s 
performance over the last three and a  
half years, versus our objective of creating 
sustainable long-term value for our 
shareholders, and our strategic and 
operational priorities, the Board and 
the Group Management Committee 
(“GMC”) believe that we have made 
good progress.
From the outset of Vision 2015, we  
have sought to reposition the business  
to focus on revenue growth and – with  
the Company being a high volume 
manufacturer, supplier and distributor 
of essential components – looked to 
volume to be the key driver of our top- 
line performance. In this respect, our 
compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) 
in revenue of 9% – of which volume has 
averaged c. 7% pa – has demonstrated  
a consistent ability to outperform our 
weighted average market growth rate 
(which we estimated at low to mid 
single-digit). 
At the same time, we have improved 
the Group adjusted operating margin by 
110bps – equating to a CAGR in adjusted 
operating profit of 16%. This increase in 
absolute terms has partially been 
impacted by the acquisitions which we 
have undertaken during the period (which 
are typically, initially at least, at a lower 
margin than the Company average) – as 
well as the mix impact of the very high 
revenue growth in the lower margin Filter 
Products division. However, our volume-
driven revenue growth, together with 
rigorous control of our cost base, the 
successful delivery of acquisition integration 
synergies and other savings initiatives, have 
nonetheless fuelled a strong improvement 
in the profitability of the Company.
Cash flow generation has equally been 
a key performance indicator where  
– over the course of Vision 2015 – we have 
averaged a conversion rate of 86%: this  
is notwithstanding that we have invested 
over £150m of capital in future revenue 
growth opportunities during the period.  
In conjunction with the increase in 
operating profit, a more disciplined 
approach to the Company’s financial  
and fiscal positions has not only 
contributed to us surpassing our “at least 
double-digit adjusted earnings per share 
growth” objective (with a CAGR of 19%); 
together with a 390bps improvement in 
our net working capital / revenue ratio, it 
has similarly contributed to our cash 
conversion. All of which has enabled  
us to fulfil our commitment to paying a 
progressive dividend to shareholders, with 
an average annual increase of 19% to the 
aforementioned recommended level of 
18.3p in 2014.
Our primary strategic objective has  
been – and, indeed, remains – the creation 
of sustainable long-term value for our 
shareholders. In this respect, our total 
shareholder return since end-2010 has 
increased 230%. This improvement has 
seen us quadruple our market capitalisation 
and improve our ranking in the FTSE index 
by approximately 150 places. This is certainly 
a creditable performance; however, there 
is more to do, and further opportunity to 
realise as we move into the next phase of 
Essentra’s growth and development.
As we have previously noted, Vision 2015 
has not merely been about financial 
performance; it has also been about our 
people, and the strategic objective of 
creating a more unified Group culture. 
Indeed, talent and culture are arguably  
the issues that many organisations cite  
as being the most challenging to improve 
and / or change, and in this respect our 
Company – being a collection of a number 
of operating brands with limited affiliation 
to the Group when I joined – it was a 
particular case in point. As such, our 
rebranding to Essentra represented a key 
milestone in our development not least 
since, for the first time, it provided us with 
a single identity behind which to go to 
market in a more co-ordinated way. This 
has opened up new growth opportunities, 
as well as facilitated the necessary 
organisational change to deliver our 
strategic objectives beyond 2015 (of which 
more below). Such changes – which 
permeate all levels of the Company – are 
neither easy to implement, nor always to 
be a part of. So, on behalf of the Board,  
I would like to recognise the efforts of all 
our employees in driving them through, 
and embracing them as critical success 
factors for the future growth and 
development of Essentra.
Our new organisational structure:  
“join up, scale up, speed up”
As the Board and the GMC looked to  
the future successful development  
of the Company beyond 2015, it was  
clearly imperative that Essentra had  
an organisational structure that was 
appropriate to the delivery of our 
strategic objectives.
Although we have progressively been 
working more collaboratively over the  
last couple of years, nonetheless being 
organised purely along divisional lines still 
tended to encourage an ad hoc, piecemeal 
approach, and an individual – rather than 
Group-wide mentality. Specifically, the 
absence of a regional organisational 
structure has meant that no one individual 
– or team of individuals – has previously 
been responsible or accountable for driving 
Essentra’s overall performance in a 
particular country. This was clearly not 
optimal and, at some point, would likely 
have constrained our potential. As such, 
the adoption of a more matrix structure 
over the course of 2014 – with the grouping 
of our activities into the three geographic 
regions of Europe, Americas and Asia, 
supplementing the divisional structure – 
has been an important and logical step.
From a product perspective, the 
agreement to acquire Clondalkin SPD 
prompted a revision to the original 
intention to reorganise our divisions into 
two Strategic Business Units (“SBUs”), 
such that, with effect from January 2015, 
we are grouped into four. Indeed, the 
substantial increase in our health and 
personal care packaging capabilities 
– combined with our offering to the 
consumer goods and tobacco industries 
– has warranted the creation of a separate 
business unit which will also be responsible 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW for product development and support to 
the Speciality Tapes business. This latter 
operation combines with our Components 
and Security Card activities to form 
Distribution, while the specialised solutions 
providers of Porous Technologies, Pipe 
Protection Technologies and Extrusion  
now come together as Specialist 
Technologies. Filter Products remains  
as per our previous divisional structure, 
although now incorporates the 
development and product management 
of our e-cigarette range.
In adopting our new organisational 
structure, it has been imperative that it 
has not layered in additional bureaucracy, 
and we are pleased to confirm that the 
relevant changes have been cost-neutral, 
as anticipated. Rather, the structure is 
designed as a growth enabler which  
will help to enhance focus, scale and 
operational efficiency, and will allow us 
to offer customers the best of Essentra – 
not just the best of each division.  
Indeed, leveraging the collective skills  
and capabilities of the entire Essentra 
Group, our additional scale is already 
making us more relevant to our 
stakeholders – not only to customers,  
but also to suppliers and as an employer: 
in turn, this will force us to better 
understand the regional dynamics and 
requirements of our targeted end-markets. 
At the same time, breaking down the 
traditional divisional boundaries should 
facilitate broader thinking and better 
transfer of skills – both in terms of organic 
growth and acquisition opportunities 
– and the Board and GMC firmly believe 
that our new organisational structure will 
provide a superior platform from which we 
can stretch our capabilities into adjacent 
business activities. 
While it is still clearly very early days 
to evaluate the impact, we are already 
encouraged by a number of examples  
of the positive features of the new 
structure. For example, in Pipe Protection 
Technologies – which was already a leader 
in the Oil Country Tubular Goods market 
– we have not only benefited from a 
best-practice solution to certain capacity, 
issues in Houston, US from the Americas’ 
regional Operations team (a positive 
challenge arising from the commercial 
success of the business), but we have also 
been able successfully to enter the sizeable 
Brazilian energy market, thanks to the 
footprint which the overall Essentra Group 
provides. Separately, in Asia – and with the 
exception of Filter Products – our previous 
divisional approach had left Essentra 
significantly underweight in what are 
some of the world’s most sizeable and 
fastest-growing opportunity markets. 
However, in the short space of time since 
we introduced our regional structure, we 
have already established a strategically-
located logistics hub in Changi, Singapore 
to feed the entire region with products 
from all our businesses, and have plans  
in place for Asia to become the primary 
sourcing and manufacturing location  
for the entire Essentra Group. While this  
is to cite but two early wins, such hitherto 
untapped opportunities underscore the firm 
belief in our ability to continue to deliver 
value to shareholders – notwithstanding 
the progress we have already made under 
Vision 2015.
Talent
At all levels, our employees are a vital 
resource in the Company’s pursuit of 
operational excellence and the provision  
of quality products and service to  
our customers. 
Indeed, as an international organisation,  
it is important that we attract an 
appropriate level of local talent and 
enhance mobility through increasing 
cross-divisional moves. In this respect, we 
made good progress during the year, not 
only in terms of developing our existing 
employees but also in adding to our  
talent base from outside the Company 
and through our recent acquisitions.
At GMC level, we welcomed Gavin 
Leathem as Group Human Resources 
Director. Gavin brings significant human 
resources experience to Essentra, and  
will be responsible for developing and 
strengthening the talent base at all  
levels of the Company. In addition,  
we filled the roles required by the new 
organisational structure – not only on  
the GMC, but also below – with the 
majority of appointments to the regional 
and SBU teams made during the first half 
of the year. This timely recruitment has 
proved instrumental to the successful 
phasing of the implementation and 
transition to the new structure. 
Responding to the growing risk which all 
companies face regarding cyber security –  
and Information Technology in general 
– we appointed a new Chief Information 
Officer to the Group Leadership Team.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
8
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW In 2014, we also launched a comprehensive 
talent management process, involving  
a global assessment of the base, the 
development of competencies for various 
grades across the organisation and the  
roll out of new Leadership Development 
Centres. The Development Centres were 
held in all three geographical regions 
during the year, and will continue in 2015. 
In order to maintain and improve our 
internal “fill” rate for senior roles across  
the organisation, a quarterly review of 
talent has been initiated as part of the 
new process.
The Essentra Graduate Development 
Programme enjoyed further success in 
2014. The two-year graduate programme 
has provided a talent pipeline for a 
number of years and, in 2014, 21 people 
joined the scheme which continues to 
expand its international reach. The 2014 
intake will join the 15 graduates recruited 
in 2013, and will have the opportunity to 
develop their management skills through 
bespoke training which takes place around 
Essentra’s sites, giving graduates exposure 
to the business while carrying out an 
operational role from day one. Separately, 
in September, the 2012 graduate intake 
completed their programme, with four 
successful presentations hosted in 
Chicago, US. Representatives from senior 
management were invited to watch the 
graduate teams drawn from across 
functions and geographies present on 
projects focusing on rebranding, high 
performance culture, new product 
development and competitor analysis.
The Board and the GMC are committed 
to ensuring that Essentra is a great place 
to work, and to ensure that we continue to 
improve as an organisation, we launched 
Enable 2014 – our second Group-wide 
employee engagement survey – in 
December. Translated into 20 languages 
and distributed to c. 5,000 employees 
worldwide, the survey saw an excellent 
81% response rate. Given the changes 
which have been introduced under Vision 
2015 – from rebranding to the adoption of 
our new organisational structure – Enable 
2014 has been a key forum for employees 
to share their views and to help shape how 
the Company develops in the future, so we 
confidently move forward to the next 
phase of growth. Naturally, there are areas 
for improvement, where action plans are 
in the process of being agreed and will be 
implemented: however, it was particularly 
encouraging that a very high 80% of 
respondents are proud to work for Essentra. 
“Drive for 2020”
As Essentra has become larger it  
has been imperative that we continue  
to evolve in order to maximise the 
opportunities available to the Company. 
At the same time, however, the model  
of balanced, profitable growth which  
we introduced with Vision 2015 has proven 
to be successful in terms of delivering 
value to our shareholders. As a result, in 
formulating the strategy to take Essentra 
forward over the next five years, the Board 
and the GMC were concerned to ensure 
that it was more a case of evolution  
than revolution, maintaining the core 
philosophy of Vision 2015 while flexing 
certain aspects to ensure that we  
focus our efforts on those activities  
which genuinely make a difference  
to a growing organisation.
In introducing our Drive for 2020 strategy, 
we have slightly amended our vision 
statement to reflect that as a company  
we are still a “work in progress” . As such, 
our goal of building Essentra into a leading 
provider of essential components and 
solutions reflects both our continued global 
growth ambitions and acknowledges our 
ability to provide our customers with 
innovative solutions and services across 
a range of targeted end-markets, which  
is not limited by material.
As Essentra becomes larger, we need to 
elevate our ambition and broaden our 
thinking to deliver the next phase of our 
growth. Accordingly, we need to continue 
the efforts which we have already started, 
to move from a product to a market and 
category-focused model. In this respect, 
the aforementioned acquisition of 
Clondalkin SPD is a compelling illustration. 
Until two years ago, our capabilities in 
pharmaceutical, health and personal  
care packaging were limited, amounting 
to tear tape, labels and authentication 
technologies. However, these end- 
markets are very sizeable, with attractive, 
long-term growth characteristics and in 
which Essentra had a low share. Having 
recognised the opportunity, we bolstered 
our category exposure – first, through the 
acquisition of Contego Healthcare Limited 
(“Contego”) and Dakota Packaging 
Limited (“Dakota”) in 2013, and we  
are now globalising our footprint with 
Clondalkin SPD. As a result, our product 
range has been expanded to include 
folding carton, leaflets and foils for  
blister packs; healthcare packaging 
accounted for some 40% 2014 revenue  
on a pro forma basis; and we have 
become the global number two supplier  
to a range of blue-chip customers.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW This diversification – whether undertaken 
organically or via M&A – is precisely the 
sort of bold thinking which Drive for 2020 
entails, and which the Board and GMC 
believe Essentra needs to embrace to 
ensure we continue to deliver value to  
our shareholders. Of course, this is not to 
ignore our more specialised capabilities in 
which we have considerable expertise and 
hold very strong market shares; however, 
we cannot simply focus our efforts on  
such areas as – on their own – they will  
not necessarily present the Group with  
the sort of scaleable global opportunities 
which we are seeking to exploit in the 
future. In re-iterating our objective of 
delivering “at least mid single-digit organic 
revenue growth” with the aspiration of 
doubling the size of the Company through 
2020 – the premise is that we will continue 
to outperform our underlying markets on 
a consistent basis: evidently, this is a more 
realistic proposition if we prioritise larger 
end-markets and opportunities. 
Recognising this, the strategic priorities 
which we have set for the next five years 
to facilitate this goal are: operating as 
“One Essentra” Group, creating synergies 
across regions and functions; becoming 
more relevant to customers and increasing 
market penetration; managing and 
upgrading the portfolio; driving operational 
excellence; and developing a global talent 
base and high performance culture.
Continuing to build on our track  
record in health and safety
Essentra’s overriding concern in the 
workplace continues to be the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees 
and those who visit the Company’s 
locations, as well as those who carry 
out work on our behalf.
In 2014, the recently-adopted regional 
leadership structure helped to drive  
further improvements in the HSE 
standards which the Company has  
already achieved. A Group-wide HSE 
management system, ESHAM, was 
successfully rolled out, to facilitate 
best-practice sharing and cultural  
change, in conjunction with a shop-floor 
Stop, Think, Evaluate, Proceed (“STEP”) 
programme. Taken together, these 
initiatives have led to a shift in focus from 
accident reporting to risk identification,  
as a result of which our lost time accident 
rate has decreased.
During the year, we also introduced a new 
HSE awards scheme, progressing from the 
previous approach of recognising sites with 
low accident rates alone to one which now 
better acknowledges cultural change, 
hazard spotting and HSE initiatives in 
addition. As such, the objective of the  
new programme is to reward employees 
and facilities which have achieved – or are 
progressing towards – world class levels of 
performance, including the development, 
sustainment and continuous improvement 
of a positive and supportive HSE culture.
The Chief Executive’s Award for  
Improved & Sustained Operational Safety 
Performance recognises and rewards sites 
which have significantly improved and 
sustained high levels of reactive and 
proactive key performance indicators.  
The GMC was pleased to award this to  
our site in Thailand, for demonstrating  
a step change in HSE culture as well as 
achieving a very low accident rate.
We have also introduced an Award for  
a Specific Improvement / Best Practice 
Project, for implementing a unique process 
of system that has reduced / will reduce  
or eliminate a specific risk. In assessing  
site applications, the ease of sharing the 
project around the Essentra Group is a  
key consideration. In 2014, this award  
was presented to our healthcare 
packaging facility in Dublin, Ireland  
for the priority given to HSE and  
improved ergonomics – in addition to 
efficiency – as part of an engineering 
project to reconfigure the production area.
As Essentra continues to increase in size – 
both organically and via acquisition –  
and the global legislative backdrop for  
HSE continues to change apace, the  
Board and the GMC are convinced  
that this regional approach will allow  
the Company to make continuous 
improvement in this critical area.
Reinforcing our responsibilities
Essentra is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
responsibility, to ensure that the way in 
which we manage our activities reflects 
the expectations of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As a member of both the 
FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, 
we recognise that our interaction with 
the environment and local communities 
is a critical component of the international 
reputation and quality of Essentra’s 
businesses, as well as a cornerstone  
of developing a responsible, progressive 
and winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities 
hold the ISO 14001 environmental 
accreditation and, with the exception 
of recently-acquired sites (which, as  
per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 
months to reach the required standard), 
they have also achieved the Occupational 
Health & Safety Management Systems 
OHSAS 18001. As anticipated in 2014,  
our Filter Products joint venture facility in 
Dubai, UAE attained ISO 14001 and OHSAS 
18001 accreditation, with the Components 
site in Turkey also achieving the latter 
certification. In addition, both Reinbek  
and Wolfen, Germany gained ISO 50001 
status during the year. Attaining the ISO 
50001 energy management standard at  
all our manufacturing facilities is a key 
objective, where we now intend to meet 
the more stringent conditions required  
to gain a single Group-wide certificate  
by the end of 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
10
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Essentra is committed to energy efficiency 
within the organisation, and we have 
continued to improve our performance on 
this front: at the same time, we have also 
further reduced the environmental impact 
of our business in other aspects, with our 
War on Waste initiative continuing to 
deliver better utilisation – and reuse  
– of raw materials across the Company.
In summary
In the final 12 months of Vision 2015,  
we continued to successfully deliver our 
strategic objectives in 2014. In addition, 
we also made important organisational 
changes through the introduction of 
a regional structure to supplement our 
existing product-based reporting lines, 
to ensure that we are optimally positioned 
to continue generating balanced, profitable 
growth beyond 2015 under our new  
Drive for 2020 strategy. In delivering these 
results and implementing these changes,  
I would like to acknowledge the efforts  
of all our employees, and to thank  
them for their continued dedication  
and commitment.
Outlook
Essentra is provided with a degree of 
defensiveness in an environment in  
which economic growth is by no means 
well-established or uniform, thanks to its 
international footprint and diverse range 
of products and end-markets. As a result, 
we are well-positioned to continue our track 
record of balanced, profitable growth in 
2015, and to begin our Drive for 2020 
strategy on a strong note. 
COLIN DAY
Chief Executive
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
11
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
