 Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report that, as 
anticipated, Essentra achieved  
its Vision 2015 strategic objectives  
in 2014, with balanced profitable  
organic growth complemented  
by value-adding transactions. 
A further notable achievement during  
the year was the transition to a new 
organisational structure, operating  
with three geographical regions and  
four Strategic Business Units. No 
organisational change is without its 
challenges, but the greater resulting 
co-ordination has established a strong 
foundation for further development  
of the Group’s operations in both  
existing and new product categories  
and geographies.
As the end of Vision 2015 approached,  
the Board met during the year to discuss 
and agree a new five-year strategy called 
Drive for 2020, details of which can  
be found on the Company’s website  
www.essentra.com. This is a clear and 
focused strategy to maintain the growth 
and momentum of Essentra.
Risk attitude
The Board continues to focus on strategy 
and sets the performance targets for the 
Group. The Executive management team 
is empowered to deliver those targets, 
through appropriate levels of delegated 
authority and support. During the year  
the Board reviewed the risk attitude for 
the Group, and maintained its focus  
on ensuring the appropriate balance of  
risk and reward in the Company’s pursuit  
of its strategic objectives.
Board responsibilities
The rigorous monitoring of financial and 
operational performance has remained 
fundamental to the fulfilment of the 
Board’s responsibilities during the year.  
The pace of development of the Group 
remains founded on strong governance, 
based on transparency and integrity driven 
by an effective Board, with appropriate 
internal controls and a comprehensive 
understanding of risk. 
Code compliance
I am pleased to confirm that the Group 
complied throughout the year with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
The required regulatory and governance 
assurances are provided throughout this 
report. The Board has received regular 
updates on the various legislative and 
governance-related developments  
which occurred during the year. As the 
Company increases in size, complexity  
and geographical reach, this brings more 
compliance requirements and challenges, 
against a background of changing 
legislation and regulation along with 
increased enforcement action by relevant 
authorities. The Board is committed  
to maintaining the highest standards  
of governance.
Audit Committee
The work of the Audit Committee has 
continued to focus on the integrity of 
financial reporting, and the oversight of  
the risk management process and internal 
controls across the Group. The latest 
governance requirements provide for  
the Committee to give a more detailed 
assessment of the key matters under 
consideration and the potential impact  
on the financial statements for the year. 
Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s task is to incentivise the 
Executive team to deliver the Company’s 
success while setting rewards taking the 
views of investors into account. The Drive  
for 2020 strategy underscores the need to 
attract, retain and motivate the team to 
deliver the new objectives. The Committee 
ensures that the Company’s practices  
and incentives are appropriate and that 
there is a clear alignment with the interests 
of shareholders. Indeed, the high levels  
of share ownership required of the Group 
Leadership Team, illustrate the Board’s 
commitment to that alignment. 
Nomination Committee
The Committee continues its work, having 
proper regard to the benefits of diversity,  
to ensure that the composition of the  
Board continues to be appropriate for  
the Company as it focuses on the delivery  
of its Drive for 2020 strategic objectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
48
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER While the Committee primarily devotes  
its attention to Board succession, the 
Board has continued to focus on reviewing 
the quality of Executive management and 
the processes for finding and developing  
a diverse, mobile and international talent 
base. Additional resources have been 
made available to pursue this objective, 
with the implementation of an improved 
global talent management system. 
Core values and behaviours
I strongly believe that good governance  
is founded on the core values and 
behaviours established by the Board and 
communicated throughout the Group.  
The Company has a strong culture of high 
standards of business ethics based on 
clear principles. The Board’s participation 
in the Company’s compliance training 
programmes, and its commitment to the 
development of new governance policies 
and practices, serves to ensure that the 
“tone from the top” is clearly understood 
and reinforced.
As the Group continues to grow in size and 
complexity, one of the greatest challenges 
facing the Board is to ensure that we have 
in place the right people, culture and 
processes to exploit fully the opportunities 
for further balanced growth, and to 
manage effectively the risks to which  
the business is exposed.
Board evaluation
It is essential that the Company has a fully 
engaged and committed Board with an 
appropriate mix of skills, experience and 
knowledge, which is capable of engaging  
in positive and constructive debate to meet 
such challenges. The Board re-engaged 
Lintstock to undertake the annual review  
of the Board in 2014.
The Company Secretary and I set the 
content for the evaluation with Lintstock 
and tailored the questionnaires used to  
the specific circumstances of Essentra.  
The process picked up on themes identified 
in the 2013 exercise and, with the launch  
of Drive for 2020, the key strategic issues 
facing the Company.
All Board members were requested to 
complete an online questionnaire 
addressing the performance of the Board 
and its Committees, the Chairman and 
the individual Directors. The anonymity  
of all respondents was ensured throughout 
the process in order to promote the open 
and candid exchange of views.
The review concluded that all members 
felt that the high performance of the 
Board continued to successfully drive the 
Company’s growth, and provided a clear 
focus on the challenges facing the Board  
in its establishment of future strategic 
objectives and its oversight of their delivery.
 
Employee engagement
I visited a number of Essentra facilities 
overseas during the year, including 
operations in India and the US. I have  
also been able to meet with a number  
of management teams to discover first 
hand how the changes to the Company’s 
organisational structure have been 
implemented and what effect they have 
had on the business. In addition, I was 
pleased to attend the official opening  
of our new purpose-built manufacturing 
facility in Newport, UK. 
I am always greatly impressed by the hard 
work and enthusiasm of my colleagues 
wherever I travel in the world and would like 
to thank them for this commitment. I would 
also like to welcome to the Group all new 
employees from our recent acquisitions.
Board changes
With the appointment of two new 
Non-Executive Directors during 2013, the 
Board benefited from the experience of 
Lorraine Trainer and Peter Hill. Following 
her appointment as the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, Lorraine led 
the development of a revised remuneration 
policy and the new LTIP rules which are 
being proposed at the 2015 AGM and 
undertook the appropriate detailed 
consultation of the shareholders. 
I regret to report that Paul Dreschler  
will be leaving the Board after the 2015 
AGM following nearly 10 years’ service.  
Paul joined on the establishment of the 
Company in 2005, and served as the  
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee until the AGM in 2014. I am 
grateful to Paul for his considerable 
contribution to the development of the 
Company for many years and valued 
support to me in my role as Chairman.
As previously reported Terry Twigger,  
was appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director following the  
2014 AGM.
Governance agenda
In summary, as the Company continues  
its strong growth, we have made excellent 
progress in response to the increasing 
demands of the governance agenda, both 
internally and externally. Good governance 
is a cornerstone of a successful company. 
Internal controls and reporting continue  
to be strengthened, in order to establish  
a framework of policies and processes  
and management systems to support  
its governance efforts which apply globally 
and are fully compatible with the delivery 
of long-term shareholder value. 
JEFF HARRIS
Chairman 
20 February 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.ESSENTRA.COM
49
DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER
