 ENRC delivered record results in 2007 . Buoyant markets for ferroalloys and 
iron ore were complemented by the strength and breadth of the business. 
The outlook for 2008 is for a very strong performance in our core 
commodities and principal markets, tempered by higher costs.
Dr Johannes Sittard Chief Executive Officer
OUR VALUES
 Teamwork: We empower our people 
 to work together effectively, sharing 
accountability, responsibility and reward.
 Enterprise: We use our capital and strong 
cash flow to take bold, decisive and  
fast action.
 Adaptability: We adapt what we produce 
and how we work to the needs of our 
customers.
 Quality: We do things right first time to  
the highest professional standards.
 Integrity: We adhere strictly to ethical  
and transparent business practices, within 
a unified culture of trust and openness.
 Partnership: We work ‘smart’, forging  
long-term, strategic alliances with key 
partners.
 Transformation: All these values are brought to 
bear in transforming the assets.
>
>
>
>
>
>
2007 was a year of tremendous success for 
ENRC and its stakeholders. The Group’s 
record results are a testament to the  
strength and breadth of our businesses, 
most specifically, our high quality assets, 
diversified revenue base and fully integrated 
energy and logistics capabilities. In addition 
our success is a credit to the operational 
management team in Kazakhstan and all of 
the employees, to whom we offer our sincere 
thanks for their efforts. Whilst we were 
helped by strong chrome ore, ferroalloys  
and iron ore prices we faced weaker pricing 
conditions in alumina and aluminium as  
well as significant cost pressures across  
our operations.
As the Chief Executive Officer of ENRC I am 
pleased that our senior management team 
has worked together so well. In little more 
than a year we have worked hard to bring to 
fruition the IPO of the Group and to operate 
as a Listed company. This remains an 
ongoing journey, to be helped by the  
advice and guidance of the Board. I am  
also delighted with the high calibre of 
non-executive Directors that have been 
appointed to the Board. The Board has very 
quickly become engaged with the Group 
under the leadership of our Chairman,  
Sir David Cooksey.
The Group’s management team, with the 
support of the Founder Shareholders and the 
Government of Kazakhstan, has achieved  
the current standing and strength of ENRC 
through its entrepreneurial culture and drive 
for growth. For the management, with the 
support of the Board, the challenge is to 
maintain these strengths, whilst working 
within the requirements of public company 
corporate governance. For management and 
the Board, the aim of achieving growth in 
shareholder value aligns our interests with 
those of our new shareholders.
CHIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
 0
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 In the short term, the opportunities to reduce 
costs or increase productivity will be limited. 
Management is committed to implementing 
cost control initiatives; however, these will 
be medium-term programmes across the 
breadth of our business and we anticipate 
that the full realisation of these benefits will 
take two to four years to be fully realised.
In 2008 we will commence a number of 
specific initiatives:
A review, conducted by external 
consultants, of productivity and 
de-bottlenecking in a number of our 
businesses.
A review of management structures to 
identify greater efficiencies.
A spin off of non-core businesses. 
Investment to replace imported or 
purchased materials; for example,  
caustic soda.
In addition ENRC will, over the medium  
term, seek to improve volume throughout, 
increasing the productivity of our fixed 
assets and investing in equipment 
modernisation to reduce maintenance 
support.
CAPITAL ExPENDITURE
Capital expenditure in 2007 amounted to 
US$911 million (2006 : US$563 million); 
including capital repairs of US$279 million 
(2006 : US$233 million). The highlight of our 
investment programme in 2007 was the  
start-up of the first phase of our aluminium 
smelter at an annual capacity of 62,500 
tonnes. Formally opened by President 
Nazabayev of the Republic of Kazakhstan  
on 12 December 2007, the project has 
operated ahead of schedule and is running  
to budget. We anticipate increasing the 
>
>
>
>
ENRC is a significant employer in Kazakhstan 
with over 64,000 employees. We have 
extensive operations spread across the 
country and in a number of towns are the 
principal employer. We recognise that  
this gives us key economic and social 
responsibilities to employees and the 
community, which we take very seriously.  
We are engaged with the Government of 
Kazakhstan and with several local regions 
and towns, as well as directly with our 
workforce, to fully reflect these 
responsibilities in our businesses. In 2007 
we gave sponsorship and made donations, 
including investment in community facilities 
and workforce training amounting to US$34 
million (2006 : US$24 million).
As mentioned by the Chairman, 2007 saw a 
rise in fatalities. Any fatality is unacceptable 
and we offer our deepest condolences to  
the families affected. Health and safety is  
a key issue for management and we are 
implementing a number of measures in  
2008 to improve in this important area.
COST MANAGEMENT
A key focus for management in 2008 will be 
costs. In 2007 total costs and unit costs were 
lower than or equal to targeted levels. In 
common with the metals and mining industry 
worldwide, however, we have experienced 
continued cost pressures on materials and 
services, offsetting savings achieved by our 
businesses. Costs of raw materials, services 
and wages all rose strongly, exacerbated  
by the high rate of inflation in Kazakhstan 
reaching 19% for 2007, and by the 
appreciation of the Kazakhstani tenge. We 
expect cost pressures to continue in 2008.
 ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW CHIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
smelter’s annual capacity to 125,000 tonnes 
during 2008 and are confident of  
reaching the planned full annual capacity  
of 250,000 tonnes per annum by 2011.  
The responsibility for this project is in the 
hands of local management under the 
leadership of the General Director of JSC 
Aluminium of Kazakhstan (‘AoK’), Mr Almaz 
Ibragimov, and its delivery reflects very well 
on the considerable operational and project 
management capabilities we have available 
to us.
The aluminium smelter will remain a key 
aspect of capital expenditure in 2008 with 
the continuing build-up to its Phase 1 
capacity of 125,000 tonnes per annum,  
and beginning its build up of an additional 
Phase 2 annual capacity of 125,000 tonnes.  
The Board has reviewed the Group’s capital 
expenditure plans and has confirmed a 
number of additional projects from 2008 to 
be implemented over the next three years. 
These will include:
An anode plant with a capacity of 150,000 
tonnes per annum to secure the supply  
of anodes required for aluminium 
production. Total capital expenditure is 
estimated to be about US$175 million and 
the plant is targeted to be in production  
in 2010.
A caustic soda plant with a capacity of 
400,000 tonnes per annum to secure  
the supply of caustic soda required for 
aluminium production. Total capital 
expenditure is estimated to be about 
US$150 million and the plant is targeted 
to be in production in 2010.
>
>
ACQUISITIONS
We recently announced the completion of the 
acquisition of a controlling interest in Serov 
group and certain related entities (‘Serov’). 
Serov is a ferroalloy producer in eastern 
Russia. Under the terms of the acquisition  
we will receive the economic benefit for the 
full year 2008. The total acquisition 
consideration amounted to US$210 million.
The acquisition of Serov demonstrates a 
number of important aspects of our strategy. 
This transaction is ENRC’s first acquisition 
outside of Kazakhstan and reinforces our 
position in low-carbon and medium-carbon 
ferrochrome, with an incremental annual 
sales volume of approximately 200,000 
tonnes. In addition the transaction allows 
the Group to benefit from further vertical 
integration within its ferroalloys business 
and provides ENRC with an important asset 
base in Russia supporting its strategy of 
pursuing regional expansion opportunities.
Merger and acquisition opportunities are  
an important element of our strategy. We 
believe that our presence in the region and 
our operational capabilities in our core 
commodities leave us well equipped to 
successfully execute value enhancing 
transactions in the years ahead. 
Nonetheless, a tight financial discipline  
will complement our approach to any  
such opportunities.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW AND 
OUTLOOK
We anticipate that the outlook for mining and 
metals over the next few years is likely to 
remain positive across our core commodities. 
For ENRC this will be reinforced by our 
strategic location, proximate to two key 
‘BRIC’ economies, which are expected to 
drive demand growth from consumers and 
for infrastructure investment. Stainless steel 
production is estimated to grow at around 
5% per annum or more over the next decade, 
whilst the outlook for alumina and aluminium 
should be driven by the existing structural 
shortage within the CIS. We anticipate 
further efforts from competitors to raise 
supply in our core commodities but it 
appears that in the face of infrastructure  
and materials constraints, new production 
will predominantly be at the higher end of 
the cost curve, in contrast to our favoured 
cost position. 
Recent developments in the power situation 
in South Africa have been foremost in 
shaping the near term positive price outlook 
for a number of metals. This situation may 
take a number of years to resolve and 
therefore threatens the expected expansion 
of South Africa’s ferroalloy production 
capacity. In the immediate future we would 
expect the energy cutbacks to be partially 
offset by capacity coming back on stream 
and the implementation of energy 
conservation measures, all of which should 
combine to ease some of the current 
pressure on prices. Nonetheless, for ENRC, 
and specifically ferroalloys and iron ore, the 
value of our reserves and resources, 
combined with our integrated long energy 
position and logistics capacity, offer key 
medium-term advantages. 
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
 2 Whilst the short-term outlook for the world 
economy, particularly in the United States 
and Europe, is uncertain, any abatement in 
demand in these markets is likely to be at 
least offset by continuing growth in China 
and Russia. These are key markets for ENRC 
where currently the bulk of our iron ore  
and alumina is sold on secure long-term, 
benchmark-priced contracts. Whilst our 
ability to grow capacity in 2008 is limited, 
our medium-term plans will support growth 
in these critical markets.
I would like to offer a positive view on the 
prospects for medium-term growth in the 
Chinese and Russian markets. Their potential 
scale of demand growth in ferroalloys,  
iron ore, alumina and aluminium, and in 
other metals is immense, based on their 
populations and the demand in their 
countries. The prospects for ENRC in these 
markets are enhanced by structural capacity 
shortages, particularly in China, that are 
expected to emerge. Kazakhstan and ENRC 
are strategically well positioned to seize the 
opportunities in these key markets.
Overall, I anticipate a strong year for ENRC  
in 2008. Even with modest volume growth 
across our existing ferroalloys, iron ore and 
alumina and aluminium businesses, we 
expect that strong prices should result in 
higher revenues. Ferrochome should benefit 
from a further expected increase in global 
stainless steel production, to some 
31 million tonnes in 2008, notwithstanding 
the anticipated slowdown in the United 
States and Europe. Iron ore has seen an 
exceptionally strong rise in benchmark prices 
for 2008 and whilst the weather impacts of 
2007/2008 may not recur, there is likely to 
be a structural deficit in iron ore for the next 
few years. Aluminium is facing an improved 
pricing outlook over 2007 whilst alumina  
is set to rise due to limitations in the 
availability of bauxite. With our self-
sufficiency in bauxite we will benefit. 
Underpinning our operations we remain long 
on energy and benefit from our extensive 
coal reserves that should allow us to 
maintain an advantaged cost position for 
energy production.
Dr Johannes Sittard
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2008
GROUP OVERVIEW
 3
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
