 2007 was a year of tremendous achievement for ENRC, culminating in the IPO 
and the opening of the aluminium smelter. Our diversified mix of high-quality 
assets and our integrated operations position us well to rise to the 
opportunities available in our chosen businesses.
Sir David Cooksey non-executive Chairman
OUR MISSION
 ‘ The Group’s mission is to achieve 
growth as a leading natural 
resources group and to enhance 
overall value for its shareholders’
I am delighted to present the first Annual 
Report and Accounts of Eurasian Natural 
Resources Corporation PLC (‘ENRC’), since  
it began trading on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange. The past year has 
been enormously eventful for ENRC, its  
first year as a single operating group. This 
culminated at the end of 2007 with our very 
successful initial public offering (‘IPO’) and 
the formal opening of our new aluminium 
smelter by President Nazarbayev of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan. 
ENRC’s businesses comprise the integrated 
mining, processing and smelting of 
ferroalloys, iron ore, alumina and aluminium, 
together with coal mining, electricity 
generation and logistics to support these 
operations. Our scale ensures that ENRC  
is a substantial participant in world markets. 
We have the advantage of proximity to China 
and Russia, which are two of the world’s 
fastest-growing markets for our products. 
Our vertical integration enables us to be  
an advantaged low cost producer in our 
chosen businesses.
The IPO in early December 2007 was the 
fulfilment of the combined efforts over a 
number of years of a great number of 
employees and advisors, of the Government 
of Kazakhstan and of our Founder 
Shareholders – Mr Patokh Chodiev, Mr Alijan 
Ibragimov and Mr Alexander Machkevitch. To 
all of these people, I would like to extend the 
thanks of the Board for their efforts and for 
making possible the new opportunities 
which are now available to the Group.
Our US$3.1 billion IPO was completed  
and the shares commenced trading on 
12 December 2007 at an offer price of 540p  
a share. This was the largest IPO by funds 
raised by way of ordinary shares on the  
main market of the London Stock Exchange 
in 2007. Our market capitalisation (as at 
31 March 2008) makes us the ninth largest 
listed metals and mining company in the 
world and, on entry, we were the 30th largest 
company in the FTSE 100 Index. Subsequent 
to our IPO we have benefited from some 
particular tailwinds affecting the industry, 
not all of which could have been anticipated: 
substantial interest rate cuts by the US 
Federal Reserve; mergers and acquisitions 
activity in the sector; the South African 
power situation; and various weather events 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007  995 
Ferroalloy Division was established
 996 
Iron Ore Division was established 
through the acquisition of SSGPO
 996 
Alumina and Aluminium Division 
established through the merger of 
several mining and energy-producing 
enterprises
 996 
Energy Division established
1999 
Logistics Division established
2004 
Construction of new aluminium smelter 
commenced
2007 
US$1.5 billion trade finance facility 
secured
2007 
Successful IPO and listing on the London 
Stock Exchange main market
2007 
New smelter opened 
2008 
Entry into FTSE 100 Index
Company Milestones
– particularly affecting ferroalloys and iron 
ore. However, these have all played to the 
Group’s inherent strengths: its diversified, 
high-quality assets, its integrated operating 
capabilities and its strategic location. We 
believe that these factors underpin our 
positive outlook for the next few years.
From an operational perspective, in 2007 we 
benefited from strong demand across our 
range of products and from higher prices, 
notably in ferroalloys and iron ore. 2007 
represented a record year for EBITDA (before 
exceptional items). These results were 
underpinned by the security of our logistics 
and energy supply and by our low cost power 
advantage. Strong growth in our principal 
markets – China and Russia – and the 
strength of demand and pricing in chrome 
ore, ferroalloys and iron ore, have allowed  
us to leverage our management expertise, 
high quality assets, diversified revenues  
and integrated operations. These combined 
events were ideal to deliver improved 
margins and record results.
Nonetheless, whilst we believe that we have 
all of the essential ingredients for success, 
we remain alert to those risks inherent in  
a complacency that can be induced by 
sustained favourable markets. We recognise 
the underlying cyclicality of our industry and 
the challenges of operating in the region as 
well as the prevailing climate of uncertainty 
in the global economy. In response we are 
focused on the rigorous control of costs in 
our businesses, the pursuit of a range of 
asset enhancements, brownfield and 
greenfield growth and merger and acquisition 
opportunities. All of these, accompanied by  
a strong financial discipline, are directed 
towards underpinning the performance of  
the business and building its growth.
RESULTS
The Group’s EBITDA (before exceptional 
items) in 2007 was US$1,906 million 
(2006 : US$1,256 million), growth of 52%. 
Profit before tax (PBT) (before exceptional 
items) in 2007 was US$1,503 million 
(2006 : US$977 million), growth of 54%. 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 
of the Group in 2007 was US$798 million 
(2006 : US$550 million), growth of 45%. 
Cash flow from operations in 2007 was 
US$1,079 million (2006 : US$739 million), 
growth of 46%. 
>
>
>
>
7
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
Our EBITDA and PBT were partially  
offset by exceptional costs associated 
with the IPO of US$182 million (2006 : 
US$6 million). 
EBITDA was US$1,724 million (2006 : 
US$1,250 million) whilst PBT was 
US$1,321 million (2006 : US$971 million).
Underlying the results were the strong 
growth in revenues fuelled by higher 
product prices and, despite strong input 
cost growth in the industry and domestic 
inflation in Kazakhstan, improved margins. 
As announced at the time of the IPO, there is 
no final dividend for 2007 because the IPO 
was so close to the year end. Going forward 
the dividend policy is for our payout to be 
progressive and in line with peers, taking 
into account the investment and growth 
opportunities that are available to us. The 
first dividend to be declared is expected to 
accompany the 2008 half-year results and 
will represent approximately one-third of the 
full year dividend.
The investment required for our announced 
capex pipeline of some US$4.0 billion  
out to 2011 is significantly exceeded by 
accumulating cash flow, added to the IPO 
proceeds and our potential debt capacity. 
The opportunities that our new position has 
opened up, together with our management 
capability and experience offer an exciting 
outlook for 2008 and beyond, but this will 
always be within the confines of rigorous 
financial discipline.
STRATEGY
The IPO was a key milestone in the 
development of the Group. Looking ahead it 
is worth reiterating our five strategic goals:
Maintain and improve on our low cost 
operations.
Continue expansion and development  
of the existing reserves and capacity.
Add value and customer diversity by 
expanding our product portfolio.
Expand our asset portfolio and footprint 
in the region’s natural resources sector 
and within our core commodities 
worldwide.
Commit to high standards of corporate 
responsibility.
Accompanying these strategic goals is our 
commitment to deliver shareholder value as 
we pursue the enhancement and growth of 
the Group. 
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
BOARD MATTERS
I would like to thank Mr Daulet Yergozhin,  
a representative of the Government of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan, who resigned as a 
non-executive Director of ENRC with effect 
from 20 February 2008. In his place and  
at the request of the Prime Minister of 
Kazakhstan, I would like to welcome  
Mr Marat Beketayev, Vice-minister of  
Justice of Kazakhstan, as a non-executive 
Director. This Board change is the result of  
a reallocation of the responsibility for ENRC 
within the Government of Kazakhstan. 
It is very important to me, as it has been to 
the Government of Kazakhstan and to the 
Founder Shareholders since the very outset, 
for the Group to have a strong platform of 
corporate governance. This is an ongoing 
journey for the Group. With the depth of  
the experience and knowledge of the non-
executive directors that are guiding the 
management and affairs of the Group  
and their commitment to Combined Code 
compliance, investors should remain 
confident of a strong commitment to 
corporate governance.
It is crucial for the Group that the Board and 
the management team maintain a strong and 
fruitful working relationship. I anticipate that 
active contributions from the full Board – 
and from the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination 
and the Health, Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committees – will provide 
valuable strategic direction and oversight to 
ENRC as it develops over the coming years.
I would also like to extend the thanks of the 
Board to the Government of the Republic  
of Kazakhstan and to the Founder 
Shareholders. Without the vision and 
support of the Government, the IPO would 
not have been possible. It was important to 
the Government that the IPO was undertaken 
to the highest standards, and in support of 
its broader development objectives. The 
Government’s participation, through its  
two Board representatives, evidences a 
continued support and commitment to  
the Group. In addition, it is thanks to the 
drive and commitment of the Founder 
Shareholders that the IPO was achieved. 
Again we value our continuing relationships 
with the Founder Shareholders and the 
opportunities that these relationships offer 
for the future growth of the Group.
A key focus of the Board for 2008 will be to 
provide support to the senior management 
team of the Group as it addresses the 
challenges of managing a public company, 
continues to grow the existing assets and 
exploits other opportunities available  
to maximise shareholder value. The 
entrepreneurial management, under the 
experienced leadership of Dr Johannes 
Sittard, has delivered much over recent 
years. The Board will continue to work  
with the management to ensure that it can 
meet all its goals, whilst providing proper 
oversight to give the best possible assurance 
to shareholders.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
ENRC is in a long-term, capital-intensive 
business with a resource life of many 
decades and investments that may have 
lives of 30 years or more. It is therefore 
important that the Group remains committed 
to the principles of sustainable development. 
We see sustainable development as a 
positive for our business, opening new 
opportunities and raising performance.
EMPLOYEES
2007 was a year of challenge across the 
Group. The operating Divisions delivered a 
record performance despite challenges from 
the weather and the day-to-day issues that 
beset life on the ground. In addition, the 
delivery of the aluminium smelter, on budget 
and ahead of time, was a significant 
achievement and a testament to the quality 
of operational and project management 
available to us. Further, across the Group  
a large number of people were involved in 
preparing for and delivering the IPO. The 
accomplishments of 2007 reflect on the 
commitment, dedication and hard work of 
our workforce worldwide. On behalf of the 
Board and you, our shareholders, I thank  
our employees for what was achieved in  
an excellent year for the Group.
Our safety performance in 2007 was 
disappointing and fell short of expectations. 
The rate of reportable accidents fell, however, 
tragically there was a rise in fatalities to 15 
from 11 in 2006. Health and safety is a key 
focus for the Group and we have intensified 
training and invested in infrastructure to 
improve our safety record. To drive this we 
have a Board committee dedicated to health 
8
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 and safety. In addition we introduced  
a position of Group Safety Officer and  
are undertaking a thorough review of  
procedures and standards, implementation 
and adherence.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND 
OUTLOOK
Since the year end we have completed  
the acquisition of a controlling interest  
in the Russian-based Serov group (‘Serov’), 
the Group’s first acquisition outside of 
Kazakhstan. We believe that the acquisition 
of Serov will help reinforce the market 
position of the Group in the ferrochrome 
industry and in the region. In addition, the 
acquisition will allow the Group to benefit 
from further vertical integration within the 
ferroalloys business and will provide a strong 
platform for ENRC in Russia.
Recently there was some market speculation 
following the release of the 2007 financial 
results of Kazakhmys PLC, concerning  
a possible combination with ENRC. In 
accordance with our legal obligations  
we made a statement on 12 March 2008 
confirming that we had engaged in an 
informal dialogue with Kazakhmys PLC in 
relation to a possible transaction. This is only 
one of a number of strategic opportunities 
that we are evaluating with a view to creating 
further shareholder value. We expect to 
announce our intentions with respect  
to the aforementioned opportunity on or  
before 16 May 2008 as requested by the 
Takeover Panel.
At the end of March 2008, we completed  
the listing of ENRC’s ordinary shares on the 
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (‘KASE’). There 
were no new shares issued in connection 
with this listing. We believe that the listing 
will enable us to access a wider investment 
base in Kazakhstan and will further efforts  
to develop Kazakhstan’s capital markets.
The Kazakhstan economy remains robust, 
notwithstanding problems in the banking 
sector that surfaced in mid-2007. 
Expectations for 2008 are for around 5%–6% 
real GDP growth, although certain sectors, 
construction and banking among them, are 
likely to remain weak. Whilst economic 
growth may be slower than in recent years, 
the fiscal position, foreign currency reserves 
and the strength of the oil and mining 
sectors differentiate Kazakhstan from other 
emerging markets in which economic crises 
have occurred in recent years. However, 
domestic inflation remains a big challenge, 
with a much higher than expected outturn  
for 2007, and is a key focus for us in 
managing our Kazakhstani tenge cost  
base through 2008.
For the mining sector as a whole the world 
economic outlook will weigh on expectations 
for 2008. ENRC, with its greater focus on 
China and Russia, expects the latent 
structural demand in these markets, from 
both industry and consumers, and with 
accompanying domestic supply issues, to 
mitigate any slowdown in demand from the 
United States and Europe. In addition, for the 
industry, there are issues over the longer-
term growth potential of supply and of 
structural deficits affecting a broad range of 
minerals. Day-to-day there are also practical 
issues across the metals and mining industry 
as to shortages of equipment, infrastructure, 
people and power. Despite these conditions, 
we believe that with its ‘Tier 1’ assets, its 
captive, energy and logistics capabilities, 
the Group is well positioned to rise to the 
opportunities available and to manage the 
challenges of this environment.
Sir David Cooksey
Non-executive Chairman
25 April 2008
9
ENRC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
GROUP OVERVIEW
