 61%
22%
12%
3%
2%
02 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
ENRC at a glance
Focused operations
ENRC has established itself  
as one of the world’s leading 
natural resources groups,  
and is well positioned to take  
a leading role in the global 
mining industry. Integrating  
the Republic of Kazakhstan’s 
foremost mining, processing, 
power and logistics operations, 
ENRC is now firmly established 
as a world-class business  
with revenue in 2008 of 
US$6.8 billion, an ongoing 
capex programme that 
invested US$1.3 billion in 
2008 and approximately 
67 ,000 employees. The 
Group’s strategy aims to bridge 
the Group’s current position as  
a leading, diversified natural 
resource Group largely based 
in the Republic of Kazakhstan, 
to its future opportunities  
as a more broadly based 
international mining group.
1 Ferroalloys Division
The Ferroalloys Division’s mining operations comprise 
Kazchrome’s Donskoy GOK and, manganese miner, 
Zhairem GOK, and also includes the Aktobe and Aksu 
ferroalloy plants and a gas-fired power station  
at Aktobe. In addition, in 2008, we acquired Serov,  
a Russian ferroalloys producer, and a stake in Tuoli,  
a ferroalloys producer in China. The Division produces 
and sells high-, medium- and low-carbon ferrochrome 
and other alloys, including ferrosilicochrome, 
ferrosilicomanganese and ferrosilicon, as well as 
chrome and manganese concentrate. The Division sells 
its ferroalloys primarily to steel producers and sells the 
remaining chrome and manganese ore to third party 
ferroalloy producers and the chemical and refractory 
industry. The Ferroalloys Division, according to 
estimates, is the world’s largest ferrochrome producer 
by chrome content, and is at the bottom of the global 
industry cost curve.
2 Iron Ore Division
The Iron Ore Division includes primary 
mining operations that produce iron 
ore, ancillary mining operations that 
produce limestone, dolomite and 
bentonite-clay, an iron ore processing 
plant and a power plant. The Division 
mines and processes iron ore into 
concentrate and pellets for sale 
primarily to steel producers. The Iron 
Ore Division sells much of its iron ore 
to the Russian steel producer, the 
Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works, 
under a long-term contract. The Iron 
Ore Division, according to estimates,  
is one of the region’s significant 
exporters of iron ore and is in the 
lowest third of the industry cost curve 
for iron ore pellet production. 
Percentage of total Group  
revenues by division
 Ferroalloy Division
 Iron Ore Division
 Alumina and Aluminium Division
 Energy Division
 Logistics Division
Percentage of total Group revenues by Division excludes inter-segment revenues.
Below
Ushkatyn III mine, Zhairem GOK, Zhairem, Karaganda region.  
Key minerals: manganese (black), iron (red), clay (yellow), limestone (grey)
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
