 12 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
“2008 was a record year for  
the Group. We believe that  
our response to the economic 
downturn will stand us in good 
stead to manage through 2009. 
Most importantly our focus on 
cost management, coupled with 
the strategic location of our 
assets, will ensure that we are 
well positioned to capitalise on 
expected future growth in China 
and Russia. Additionally, our 
strong balance sheet provides 
us with the opportunity to 
exploit value-enhancing 
acquisition opportunities. ”
During the first nine months of 2008 the Group’s financial and 
operational results were outstanding, supported by strong demand  
and high commodity prices for our major products as well as the 
management’s focus on the control of costs. The results reflect the 
value of the Group’s high quality assets, our integrated energy and 
logistics capabilities and strategic location.
Whilst we had anticipated a slowdown, the experience of Q4 2008 was 
far swifter and much greater than we or the industry had anticipated, as 
the travails of the financial sector were transmitted to businesses and 
consumers around the world. As the downturn took effect we kept our 
business operations under review. We responded quickly to match 
supply with the reduced demand from our stainless steel and steel 
customers, to limit inventory buildup and to maintain the advantages of 
our low cost position. We believe that this best secures our financial 
position and sustains the advantage we derive from being a low cost 
producer. The Group’s record results in 2008 are, nonetheless, 
tempered by the more challenging environment continuing into 2009.
Management response to the downturn
The steps we took to address the downturn in Q4 2008 were: 
We announced immediate production cutbacks in the ongoing > >
operations of our Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions of,  
respectively, approximately 35% and 50% (referenced to the  
2007 sales volumes).
We reduced staff costs, with a 10% pay cut for senior management, > >
the suspension of sub-contractors, reduced working hours, job 
shares, unpaid leave and salary and hiring freezes. We managed to 
implement these measures without having to significantly reduce 
the workforce, which will stand us in good stead to rebuild output 
when the environment improves.
We secured a reduction in raw material input costs as a result of the > >
economic turndown.
We reviewed our capital expenditure programme with priority being > >
given to replacement and productivity enhancing projects, limiting 
the active and planned in-progress projects to US$2.4 billion. 
Expansion projects have been delayed and will be reviewed  
as to their timing with the flexibility to reinstate them when 
economic conditions allow. We are also reviewing opportunities  
to reduce delivery times, reduce costs and cut expenditure with 
equipment suppliers. 
Our businesses remain low cost occupying the lower third or in the  
case of ferrochrome, at the bottom of the cost curve. This remains a  
key advantage that we will focus on maintaining and, where possible, 
reinforcing, through the present downturn. Crucial to our success is 
that our businesses remain underpinned by the security of our logistics 
and low cost energy supply. 
2008 Performance
In the full year 2008, Group revenue increased 66.2%, to US$6,823 
million (2007: US$4,106 million). The inclusion of Serov, from Q2 2008, 
Tuoli, from Q4 2008, and new aluminium sales, together added 
revenues of US$782 million. Excluding these new businesses, revenue 
(refer note 36) grew 47.2%, with the increase driven largely by higher 
average sales prices notably for ferrochrome and iron ore, partially 
offset by lower year-on-year volumes, in the Ferroalloys and Iron  
Ore Divisions. Total costs (excluding exceptional items) rose 18.8%,  
to US$2,973 million (2007: US$2,503 million). Excluding the new 
businesses, total costs increased 5.6%. Cost increases, particularly  
in the core operating divisions, were driven by labour and materials 
(reductants and fuel). Cost pressures abated significantly in Q4 2008, 
but in addition we took a number of actions to limit labour costs and  
to maximise our operational flexibility. Underlying EBITDA increased 
116.9%, to US$4,161 million (2007: US$1,918 million) whilst profit 
after tax increased 229.7%, to US$2,684 million (2007: US$814 
million). Earnings per share (before exceptional items) rose 111.3%, to 
205 US cents (2007: 97 US cents). Our first full year dividend (paid and 
proposed) amounts to 31 US cents per share; a payout ratio (dividend 
per share as a proportion of earnings per share) of 15%.
Dr Johannes Sittard
Chief Executive Officer
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB! 13 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
The Group’s performance was underpinned by a steady increase in 
overall production volumes and higher sales for the first nine months  
of 2008. There was a significant downturn in Q4 2008 when we 
announced production cuts in the Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions, 
but for the full year 2008 ferrochrome production (excluding Serov  
and Tuoli) was down only 6.8% whilst primary iron ore concentrate  
fell 7.8%. Production continued to grow in the Alumina and Aluminium 
Division with alumina production at its new target capacity of 1.6 
million tonnes per annum and with 106 thousand tonnes from the new 
aluminium smelter. The Ferroalloys Division, contributing some 67.0% 
(2007: 59.4%) of underlying EBITDA, benefited from strong pricing, as 
well as the first-time contribution of Serov, with overall revenue almost 
doubling and significantly outpacing growth. The Iron Ore Division, 
contributing 22.1% (2007: 24.5%) of underlying EBITDA, was driven by 
strong pricing and good control of costs. The Alumina and Aluminium 
Division, contributing 7.1% (2007: 11.2%) of underlying EBITDA, saw 
total costs rise ahead of revenues due to a weak aluminium price and 
the build up of the new aluminium smelter. The Energy Division’s 
underlying EBITDA contributed 4.3% (2007: 5.6%), benefiting from 
stronger third-party coal sales and better power and coal pricing 
partially offset by an increased proportion of internal power 
consumption by the new smelter. The Logistics Division, contributing 
1.2% (2007: 2.3%) of underlying EBITDA, was impacted by a decline  
in transportation volumes and reduced repairs business.
We maintained a strong balance sheet with gross available funds  
of US$2,768 million (31 December 2007: US$2,921 million) and 
outstanding debt of US$727 million (2007: US$1,424 million). 
Operating cash flow was very strong, increasing 156.3%, to US$2,766 
million (2007: US$1,079 million). We see our funding position as a key 
competitive advantage in the present uncertain times and will continue 
to manage this position prudently.
Health and safety
Health and safety is a key focus for the Group and in 2008 we 
intensified our efforts toward improvement. The Group achieved a 
reduction in fatalities to 9 in 2008, from 15 in the prior year. Any deaths 
are regrettable to us and we express our condolences to the families 
involved. The number of injuries rose to 75 (2007: 63; 2008 exc Serov: 
71). The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) rose to 0.68 (2007: 
0.58; 2008 exc Serov: 0.67) per one million hours worked, reflecting 
improved reporting but also increased injury severity and greater lost 
worktime. We were pleased by the initial response to our review of 
workplaces where protection is required, stricter safety requirements 
being enforced on staff and the retraining of safety managers. In 2008 
safety reporting and procedures were reviewed by international 
consultants, DuPont, and a new safety management system is now 
being implemented. The Group has adopted an aspiration of ‘zero 
injuries’ on which to focus its drive for an improved approach to health 
and safety.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in 2008 amounted to US$1.3 billion (2007: US$0.9 
billion), significantly below our original expectations of US$1.7 billion 
for the year. In H1 2008 capital expenditure was broadly spread across 
our Divisions as we invested to build up our growth profile; the 
highlights of 2008 were the aluminium smelter achieving its Phase 1 
run-rate capacity well ahead of schedule and the refurbishment of a 
power generator.
 
To continue to support the Group’s strategic plan, priority has been 
given to replacement and efficiency projects, amounting to US$2.4 
billion in total. These projects are important to sustaining the Group’s 
relative cost position advantage. The projects that have been delayed, 
amounting to some US$4.3 billion, continue to be a key part of the 
Group’s strategy for our Kazakhstan businesses, however, their timing 
is dependent on future demand.
The current approved ‘in progress’ capital expenditure programme 
includes: 
Ferroalloys Division – the construction of three new Direct Current > >
(DC) furnaces at Aktobe with a capacity of 440 thousand tonnes per 
annum. These will be a mixture of replacement and new production 
with a net increase in production of approximately 170 thousand 
tonnes. The introduction of new furnaces will be staggered to reflect 
market demand. The DC furnaces should enhance productivity by 
their scale, enabling a reduced exposure to coke and allow the 
greater use of chrome ore fines.
Alumina and Aluminium Division – the additional 125 thousand > >
tonnes Phase 2 capacity of the aluminium smelter, due to 
commence production in 2010.
Energy Division – the construction of an additional 325MW turbine > >
to facilitate growth in other Divisions, principally the new aluminium 
smelter, while maintaining a net long position in electricity and 
providing strategic growth optionality.
Logistics Division – the ‘China Gateway’ Project. The project,  > >
for which we won a tender from the Government of the Republic  
of Kazakhstan, is of strategic significance to both the country  
and the Group. The increased capacity will enable us to better  
serve the market in North-West China for which we anticipate  
longer term growth.
For 2009 project capital expenditure is expected to amount to 
approximately US$0.6 billion, with a further US$0.4 billion for capital 
repairs and other projects.
Acquisitions
We completed the acquisition of a controlling interest in the Serov 
group and certain related entities (‘Serov’) in early April 2008. Serov  
is a ferroalloy producer in Russia. The total acquisition consideration 
amounted to US$210 million. The transaction built up our position in 
low- and medium-carbon ferrochrome, and we acquired additional 
high-carbon capacity. In mid October 2008 the Group announced  
the completion of the acquisition of a 50% stake in Tuoli, a Chinese 
ferroalloys producer, for approximately US$15 million. The acquisition 
of a 50% interest in BML for US$306 million was announced in early 
May 2008. BML is focused on the development of an iron ore deposit  
in the Bahia State of Brazil. The bankable feasibility study for the BML 
iron ore deposit project is expected to be completed in Q3 2009.
In February 2009, we announced the acquisition of a 25% interest  
in Shubarkol Komir JSC (‘Shubarkol’), from a related party, a major 
semi-coke and thermal coal producer based in the Republic of 
Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of US$200 million less 25%  
of net debt. Shubarkol is one of the Republic of Kazakhstan’s largest 
semi-coke and thermal coal producers, producing some 6.1 million 
tonnes of coal in 2007 and with 1,419 million tonnes of measured and 
indicated coal resources within its coal lease. ENRC has entered into  
an off-take agreement with Shubarkol, secured a seat on Shubarkol’s 
Board and has a right of first refusal, combined with a call option, over 
all or part of the remaining shares in Shubarkol. We believe that the 
acquisition of this stake strengthens the integrated business model 
through securing a reliable and cost effective supply of semi-coke and 
relatively high quality thermal coal, enhancing the Group’s position as 
a low cost producer.
Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy and are intended 
to build further on the low cost base of the business. Leveraging our 
knowledge of minerals extraction as well as our integrated energy and 
logistics capacity, the Group will look to develop its presence in other 
natural resources in the Eurasian region and elsewhere in the world.
Taxation
In December 2008 the Republic of Kazakhstan introduced a new Tax 
Code which took effect from 1 January 2009, providing us with greater 
clarity and predictability. Broadly the new Tax Code is designed to 
encourage greater investment in value-added processing by miners in 
the Republic of Kazakhstan. The new Tax Code has three key changes:  
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Reserves Corporate Information Group Overview
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB! 14 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
a phased reduction in the rate of Corporate Income Tax (‘CIT’) from  
30% in 2008 to 20% in 2009, 17.5% in 2010 and, 15% from 2011; the 
introduction of new Minerals Extraction Taxes (‘MET’) with a specific 
rate for each type of mineral, broadly phased to offset the reduction in 
CIT; and revisions to the basis of calculating Excess Profits Tax (‘EPT’). 
The impact of the new Tax Code, going forward, is as we expected; if all 
of the changes were to be incorporated into the 2008 tax charge, on a 
pro forma basis, the impact would be an additional 1 to 2 percentage 
points on the underlying effective tax rate of 33.5%. ENRC’s continued 
commitment to invest in value-added processing in the Republic of 
Kazakhstan should enable us to optimise our future effective tax rate. 
In the short term, in the light of the current environment, we are 
discussing with the Government the possibility of partial or whole 
exemptions from MET.
Industry overview
We expect the outlook for mining and metals across our core 
commodities to remain positive over the longer term. However, in the 
short term, the industry faces considerable uncertainty and business 
sentiment remains appropriately cautious. This is already widely 
evident in the postponement or cancellation of projects by our industry 
peers, cutbacks in capacity in response to weak demand conditions 
and with many spot prices at or below the cost levels of the marginal 
producers. In most commodities, production capacity remains well in 
excess of demand and inventories are high. We expect that in 2009 
discussions for negotiated price commodities will be more protracted. 
Near-term conditions should be gradually eased by the range of 
extensive fiscal stimulus packages implemented by governments 
worldwide. Nonetheless, we believe that the world economy is unlikely 
to see a sustained improvement in industrial production until credit 
conditions ease, the cost of capital declines and after substantial 
private and public sector deleveraging.
Stainless steel production in 2008 amounted to about 26.6 million 
tonnes (2007: 28.5 million tonnes) and may ease further in 2009. 
Downside risk may be limited, as industry ferrochrome capacity has 
been much reduced and there is limited inventory, which should help 
lower cost producers such as ENRC. Iron ore production will be similarly 
depressed and our advantage is our access to the North-West Chinese 
markets, however, there are few signs of recovery evident in the 
Russian steel industry on which we have traditionally focused. Alumina 
and aluminium will remain constrained by high inventory levels, 
however, our location, low cost position and limited scale should help 
our position within the Russian market.
We hold a positive view on the long-term growth prospects for the 
Chinese and Russian economies, which supports ENRC’s strategic 
Below
Control room at SSGPO, Rudniy
Right
Marking categories of aluminim  
ingots, KAS, Pavlodar
Second right
Ball mill rolling drum, Donskoy GOK, 
Kazchrome Khromtau
Far right
Smelting facilities at Aktobe 
Ferroalloy Plant, Kazchrome, Aktobe
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB! 15 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
location; China in particular will be key to any turnaround in the 
demand for industrial metals. The potential growth in demand in Russia 
and China, for ferroalloys, iron ore, alumina and aluminium, and in 
other metals is significant, based on their populations, urbanisation 
and infrastructure requirements. The prospects for ENRC in these 
markets are enhanced by structural capacity shortages, particularly  
in China, that are expected to emerge with an economic recovery.  
The Republic of Kazakhstan, and ENRC as a leading company in the 
Republic of Kazakhstan, are strategically well positioned to seize  
the opportunities in these key markets over the longer term.
Outlook for 2009
One of management’s key areas of focus has been working capital.  
We have successfully managed to control inventory levels and have 
avoided any significant issues with the recovery of receivables.
As indicated above, we expect that market conditions will remain 
determined largely by demand factors. Whilst sales volumes so far  
in 2009 have been better than expected, it is not clear that this is 
sustainable. Some contractual sales volumes have been reduced to 
date, and this trend may continue in light of overall market conditions. 
We do not expect that we will have certainty on any sustained general 
recovery before 2010 at the earliest.
The Q4 2008 production cutback in Ferroalloys will be maintained at 
35% with iron ore at 40%, at least through H1 2009. We are continually 
reassessing the production plans for the businesses in the light of  
the weak global economic situation and end customer demand but,  
at this time, are comfortable with the scale of the cutbacks we have 
announced, however, their duration is uncertain. We also anticipate 
that pressure on prices will remain. In the present environment 
underlying cost growth pressures are abating somewhat, which should 
help the Group’s efforts to control costs. In 2009 the comparative 
stability of the Energy Division is likely to be evident with a relatively 
more secure demand for coal and power. 
The 25% devaluation of the Kazakhstani tenge in February 2009 has 
provided some benefit as a large part of our costs are incurred in tenge. 
The devaluation will help ensure that we maintain our competitive cost 
position. Any benefit from the devaluation will in part be offset by the 
foreign exchange forward hedge we have in place, as well as increased 
cost inflation and the growing incidence of pegging some supply prices 
to the US dollar.
We have made the decision to reaffirm our dividend policy of a payout 
ratio of 15%–20% of earnings, until we have better visibility of the 
business cycle.
We believe that ENRC has all of the essential ingredients for managing 
through the current challenging environment and for future success, 
based on our proximity to key markets, our low costs and growth 
opportunities. Given the current operating environment, we are 
focused on the tight management of cash and of the balance sheet, 
rigorous control of costs in our businesses, the pursuit of a range of 
asset productivity enhancements and replacement, and selective 
acquisition opportunities. All of these are directed towards 
underpinning the performance of the business, providing a solid 
platform for growth and delivering value for all our shareholders.
Our success is ultimately a credit to the operational management team 
in the businesses and to all our employees, to whom we offer our 
sincere thanks for their continuing efforts and for their fortitude and 
accommodation as we manage through the current challenging times. 
We would not have been able to manage through the downturn as well 
without the cooperation of our workforce with whom we have a good 
working relationship.
Dr Johannes Sittard
Chief Executive Officer
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Reserves Corporate Information Group Overview
Only use the LF version of Meta for this job :  
no non-aligned numbers!!
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
