 02
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
Group Overview
The prevailing economic conditions during 2009 meant that ENRC 
faced challenging headwinds for a significant part of the year. I was 
particularly impressed with the performance of our senior 
management team who responded quickly and effectively to ensure 
that the impact of the downturn was minimised as much as possible. 
Their focus on cost control and reducing inventory levels played a 
significant part in ensuring that the Group performed well into the 
recovery.
Despite the economic difficulties, industry production levels 
recovered progressively during 2009, particularly as a result of the 
continuing demand for commodities from China. This environment 
also supported strengthening prices. By the end of the year our own 
production levels were largely back to effectively full available 
capacity. 
During the year ENRC began to deliver on its stated intention to 
develop as a more diversified mining group. We took advantage of 
the acquisition opportunities available and in September 2009 we 
announced our offer for Central African Mining & Exploration 
Company PLC (‘CAMEC’) which became unconditional on 9 
November 2009. Work is ongoing to integrate CAMEC into the ENRC 
corporate structure, as our Other Non-ferrous Division, and we 
believe that in due course CAMEC’s assets, and our own expertise, 
will provide us with a competitive advantage in the region. In 
February 2010 we entered into a conditional agreement to acquire a 
90% interest in Chambishi Metals PLC a processing facility in 
Zambia. Management plans to combine Chambishi with the existing 
Other Non-ferrous Division facilities in the Democratic Republic  
of Congo (‘DRC’). The Chambishi acquisition was completed in  
early April. 
In June 2009 Miguel Perry stepped down as an Executive Director 
and Chief Financial Officer of the Group. In September 2009 we 
announced the appointment of Zaure Zaurbekova as an Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to this Ms Zaurbekova had 
been the Group’s Deputy Chief Financial Officer and acting Chief 
Financial Officer after Mr Perry’s departure, coming to the role with 
significant experience of leading the finance function in Kazakhstan.
“2009 demonstrated the inherent 
strengths of ENRC’s low cost and 
integrated operations. Management 
performed extremely well through the 
downturn and, as the year progressed, 
had the Group advantageously 
positioned to deliver with the upturn. 
The strength of our balance sheet was 
also important and it assisted the 
business as a base from which to invest 
and to grow by acquisition. We continue 
to evaluate all opportunities, both 
organic and acquisitive, with care to 
ensure that value is delivered for all 
shareholders.”
D r	J o h a n n e s	S i t t a r d
No n - e x e c u t i v e	Ch a i r ma n
Chairman’s Statement  GROUP OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESERVES CORPORATE INFORMATION
03
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
In August 2009 we announced that Sir David Cooksey, non-
executive Chairman, was leaving ENRC to take up the position of 
Chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited. After consultation 
with our major shareholders, I was honoured to be asked by the 
Board to become Chairman in his place. Felix Vulis, previously our 
Chief Operating Officer in Kazakhstan, was promoted to be an 
Executive Director and the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, whilst 
our Senior Independent Director, Sir Richard Sykes, became Deputy 
Chairman. Michael Eggleton, who had served on the Board since the 
IPO as a non-executive Director, left in 2009 to pursue other 
interests. In January 2010 we announced the appointment of 
Professor Dieter Ameling as an independent non-executive Director. 
Despite the considerable changes in the Board’s composition since 
last summer, I firmly believe that the Group’s continuing strong 
strategic performance demonstrates that our Board is committed to 
driving forward the businesses and strategy.
One of the issues of the year was the increase in the number of 
fatalities compared to 2008. During the year we worked hard with 
DuPont to evaluate and improve safety management at our 
operational sites and this work is ongoing. The project is a long-term 
one and it is too soon to measure the effectiveness of the new 
processes we have introduced. However, any fatality is considered 
seriously and the management team have taken steps to increase 
their scrutiny of health and safety practices at our operational sites 
and have escalated the reporting process so there is greater 
accountability at a senior level. 
We believe that the economic outlook will continue to improve during 
the course of 2010 and that greater stability than we have had in 
recent years will result in a more positive period for natural 
resources companies in the future.
Dr Johannes Sittard
Non-executive Chairman
