 16__Unlocking Resources
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
In 2010 the Group delivered a strong 
operating and financial performance, with 
production volumes at record levels. This 
performance was built on the robust core 
businesses of the Group in Kazakhstan,  
as well as the continued strength of the 
Chinese economy, the growth evident in 
emerging markets generally and greater 
stability in the developed economies. 
The Group continued to make  
significant strategic progress during  
the year. In Kazakhstan, we focused  
on plans to enhance our existing asset  
base and increase investment in capacity.  
In May, Phase 2 of the aluminium smelter 
commenced operations on time and  
on budget. The progress that we have  
made in recent and ongoing capex  
projects – for example, the Aktobe  
ferroalloys expansion, Phase 2 of the 
aluminium smelter and the increasing  
power generation capacity – gives us 
confidence in the Group’s prospects.
We remain positive on the Group’s  
prospects for 201 1, although the control  
of costs growth and the development of  
our assets in Africa will be important issues  
for management, as will be the continued 
near-term risk of commodity market volatility.
We made further progress with our strategy  
by establishing the foundations for growing 
businesses in Africa and Brazil, with major 
benefits to be realised in the years ahead.
 
In addition, we continued to grow through 
acquisitions, notably expanding our 
presence in copper, cobalt and iron ore. 
Acquisitions during the year have enhanced 
our assets in Africa – primarily in the DRC. 
We are undertaking an extensive exploration 
programme to scale up the level of resources 
and to prove the reserves base. Whilst we 
remain in the initial stages of the development 
of the DRC assets, the exploration 
programme has given us greater confidence 
in the scale of our ambitions. 2010 has  
also seen us complete the initial phase  
of integration of CAMEC into the Group. 
We made an investment in Northam  
Platinum to give us strategic optionality in  
a commodity which we believe has very 
good prospects. With this acquisition, along 
with our copper and cobalt assets, and with  
the potential coal and platinum projects,  
we expect Africa to be a more important 
geography in the future of the Group.
2010 also saw the Group enhance its 
presence in iron ore with acquisitions in 
Brazil. The Group’s Brazilian assets are  
all projects around the development of the 
Brazilian Government’s East-West rail link  
to open up the Bahia region to economic 
development. These projects will provide  
the Group with entry to the world’s one billion 
tonne seaborne iron ore trade and will enable 
us to offer products to new customers in the 
Asia-Pacific, Americas, Europe and Middle 
East regions. With the additional capacity 
offered by Brazil, along with the expansion  
in Kazakhstan, we have positioned the 
Group to emerge later in the decade as a 
leading global iron ore player and, as a result, 
this will shift the balance of our business.
Felix Vulis, Chief Executive Officer ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010__ 17
Iron Ore  
Third-party sales volumes 
Iron ore concentrate:  
8.58 mt 
Iron ore pellet:  
8.03 mt
Ferroalloys 
Third-party sales volumes 
High-carbon ferrochome: 
1.12 mt 
Total ferroalloys:  
1.53 mt
Alumina and 
Aluminium 
Third-party sales volumes 
Alumina:  
1. 19 mt 
Aluminium:  
0.22 mt 
The Group’s management extends its  
thanks to all of its employees for their 
continued efforts in 2010 and for their  
loyalty and commitment.
In February of this year I made the decision 
to step down from the Group for personal 
reasons. I am pleased to have been 
associated with the Group for so many 
years, through the development of the 
business, with its emergence as a  
public company and to have had the 
opportunity to lead its expansion as Chief 
Executive Officer over the last two years. 
2010 production performance
In 2010 the Group achieved a record 
production performance, reflecting effective 
full available capacity of the Group’s principal 
Kazakhstani businesses throughout 2010. 
Management’s success was built on 
leveraging of low cost production, the 
Group’s location and the retained workforce, 
in addition to a rebuild of sales volumes, 
notably for ferroalloys, in traditional markets 
as well as into China.
Ferroalloys: ore extraction amounted   •
to a record 4.82 mt, whilst total gross 
ferrochrome production was 1.44 mt,  
of which 1.31 mt was high-carbon 
ferrochrome; total gross ferroalloys 
production rose to 1.86 mt. Throughout 
2010 the Division’s Kazakhstani 
operations were running at effectively  
full available capacity and exceeded  
the record volumes of 2007 . Production 
recovered at Serov and Tuoli to effective 
full available capacity at the end of 2010.
Iron Ore: ore extraction amounted to  •
some 43.61 mt, ahead of the prior high  
of 40.22 mt in 2007. Saleable product 
amounted to 8.94 mt of concentrate  
and 8.02 mt of pellet. 
Alumina and Aluminium: bauxite  •
extraction reached a record 5.31 mt, 
exceeding the previous high in 2008. 
Alumina volumes rose to 1.64 mt as  
part of the expansion in alumina capacity. 
Aluminium production was at its full 
available capacity run rate (250 ktpa)  
from May and totalled 227 kt for the year.
0 .41 LTIFR
1
 against
0.63 in 2009
1 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, excluding Africa 18__Unlocking Resources
Energy  
Third-party sales volumes 
Coal: 
6.96 mt 
Electricity:  
2,565 GWh 
Other Non-ferrous  
Third-party sales volumes 
Copper cathode and 
sludge:  
19.70 kt 
Cobalt contained:  
9.40 kt
Other Non-ferrous: total production of  •
copper cathode and sludge was 20.27 kt 
whilst that of cobalt contained reached 
9.65 kt in both metal and concentrate.
Energy: coal extraction reached a record  •
20.10 mt, exceeding the previous high  
of 2009. Power generation reached  
13,711 GWh, again a new high, and 
reflected efforts to maximise available 
capacity to take advantage of the new 
electricity price regime and to meet  
the Group’s growing internal power 
requirements. Internal power consumption 
reached 73.9% of total production.
2010 financial performance
The Group’s strong financial performance in 
2010 was underpinned by a rapid response 
to the market’s recovering appetite for 
commodities, its strategic location and its 
low cost position. These factors were partially 
offset by increased costs in relation to the 
build out of the Other Non-ferrous Division. 
For the Group, margins rose as like-for-like 
revenue growth of 62% outstripped the 
increase in like-for-like total costs of 27%. 
Total revenue rose 72% to US$6,605 million, 
due to both higher prices and significantly 
higher sales volumes, including new sales  
of aluminium and copper and cobalt. Total 
costs growth reflected both higher volumes 
and rising unit costs, which was a feature  
for the industry as well as the Group in 2010, 
and the inclusion of the Other Non-ferrous 
Division. Underlying EBITDA rose 118%  
to US$3,194 million, with the Underlying 
EBITDA margin increasing to 48%. Earnings 
per share was ahead 110% to US 170 cents, 
including a one-off gain of US$298 million 
arising in relation to the accounting for the 
Brazilian acquisition (Bahia Minerals BV 
(‘BMBV’)) in September 2010 and acquisition 
related costs of US$73 million. The Group’s 
effective tax rate for the year was 26.2%, 
which included the impact of these two items. 
The Group saw a substantial increase in 
operating cash flow during the year, rising to 
US$2,303 million (2009: US$1,209 million). At 
the year end the Group maintained a strong 
balance sheet position, with net debt of 
US$37 million, having secured additional 
funding from international banks, export 
credit agencies, the Chinese Development 
Bank and the Kazakhstan Sovereign Wealth 
Fund ‘Samruk-Kazyna’. 
h ealth & safety
Health and safety remains a key priority for 
the Group. In 2010 we undertook a number 
of major initiatives to raise engagement  
and compliance with health and safety 
standards. This was in response to the 
challenging environment of 2009 and  
our desire to improve performance across 
the Group. We continued with the 
implementation of our safety management 
system, with improved reporting and  
with a rollout of our new Safety Culture 
Improvement Project across our businesses 
in Kazakhstan and Russia. The project  
will enable us to build an integrated 
organisational structure, provide managerial 
leadership and establish effective safety 
procedures and performance standards.  
We introduced new communication tools 
and an improved incentive system for line 
managers, raising the priority of health and 
safety, and undertook behavioural audits 
across all of the Divisions. A special site visit 
was conducted to the African operations and 
we developed a safety management system 
integration plan. Corporate safety standards 
and reporting procedures are being applied 
to all operations in Africa. 
For the Group, the number of fatalities  
in 2010 was seven (2009: 12), with three  
out of eight of the principal operations  
in Kazakhstan and Russia avoiding any 
fatalities in both 2010 and 2009. All deaths 
are regrettable to us and we express our 
condolences to the families involved. The 
number of work-related injuries (excluding 
Africa) for 2010 was 45 (2009: 64). The  
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (‘LTIFR’) 
(excluding Africa) was 0.41 (2009: 0.63) per 
one million hours worked. Africa had zero 
fatalities, 52 injury cases and an LTIFR of 
2.88. In 2011 the Group will integrate the 
reporting of health and safety statistics of 
Africa into those of the Group as a whole. 
The Group remains focused on improving  
its delivery of health and safety based on  
the adoption, in 2008, of an aspiration to 
zero injuries.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010__ 19
acquisitions
In 2010 the Group accelerated its growth 
strategy in its targeted commodities. The 
underlying aim is to build a portfolio of tier one 
assets, which are large scale and scaleable, 
having extended mine lives, and with the 
potential to be towards the lower end of the 
cost curve. Our recent activity has focused 
on Africa, which has an outstanding mineral 
resource base, where we have established 
an operational platform for copper and 
cobalt, and on Brazil, where we are looking  
to build a presence in the seaborne iron ore 
market and aspire to emerge as a major 
player. The Group’s acquisitions strategy  
is unchanged and remains interested in  
its major core products, ferrochrome and 
iron ore, but will also consider looking at 
opportunities to enhance our recently 
acquired copper, cobalt and platinum assets, 
as well as the potential of thermal coal. 
In April–May 2010 the Group completed the 
US$300 million acquisition of Enya Holdings 
BV (‘Enya’) which holds a 90% interest in 
Chambishi, a Zambian copper and cobalt 
producer. In April the Group purchased  
a 12.2% interest in Northam Platinum, a 
major platinum producer in South Africa  
and subsequent purchases increased the 
holding to 14.35%; the total consideration 
paid was US$345 million. In June the Group 
completed the US$75 million purchase of the 
outstanding 50% of the issued share capital 
of SMKK. SMKK has exploration permit 
assets contiguous to the Group’s existing 
operations in the DRC. The acquisition of the 
outstanding 50% of SMKK allows the Group 
to reinforce its resource and production 
capacity in the DRC. In August the Group 
purchased 50.5% of Camrose Resources 
Limited and its subsidiaries (‘Camrose’)  
for US$175 million. The primary assets of  
the Camrose joint venture are high-quality 
copper and cobalt exploitation licences 
located in the DRC. 
In September the Group completed the 
purchase of the outstanding 50% of the  
BML Project, an iron ore resource in Brazil, 
for a net cash consideration of US$670 
million. In October the Group announced  
the purchase of MIBA and subscribed for 
51% of MPB for up to US$304 million. MIBA 
and MPB own iron ore licences in Brazil 
proximate to the East-West rail link and the 
BML Project.
In January 2011 the Group announced the 
extension of a call option originally granted  
in February 2009 in conjunction with the 
acquisition of a 25% interest in Shubarkol, 
one of Kazakhstan’s largest thermal coal 
producers. The call option gives ENRC  
the right to acquire the outstanding 75%  
of the ordinary shares of Shubarkol for  
a consideration of some US$600 million.  
The call option extension, which has  
been granted for nil consideration,  
extends the expiry date of the call option  
to 31 January 2012.
Capital expenditure
For 2010 capital expenditure amounted to 
US$1,187 million (2009: US$1,147 million), 
approximately US$300 million below our 
initial expectations, due to the timing of 
certain investments and management’s 
decision to revise the planned development 
and defer expenditure on a number of 
projects in Africa. Management prioritised  
a review of the assets of the Other 
Non-ferrous Division to provide a better  
basis for determining the optimal capital 
expenditure for the development of the 
businesses.
Project highlights in 2010 included:
Ferroalloys – construction of four furnaces  •
with 440 ktpa gross capacity at Aktobe  
is still in progress. Design engineering  
has been completed and preparatory 
works for the construction commenced  
in 2010 and are planned to be finished  
in 2011. Advance payments for primary 
equipment such as furnaces, transformers, 
rectifiers and automatics have been 
made; these will be built within 13 months 
and are expected to be delivered in 2012.
 Iron Ore – the completion in June of a  •
metal casting plant and ongoing feasibility 
studies for the expansion of iron ore 
extraction and the development of new 
high quality concentrate, high quality 
pellet and Hot Briquetted Iron capacity.
Progress in Africa
Copper and cobalt 
As 2010 progressed we completed the 
acquisitions of: processing capability – 
Chambishi Metals in Zambia; additional 
resource – SMKK in the DRC; and a mine 
management capability – Congo Cobalt 
Corporation in the DRC. We also 
established the Camrose joint venture  
in the DRC, giving us access to additional 
copper and cobalt resource. The collection 
of these businesses and resources 
establishes a compelling copper and 
cobalt business.
The acquisition of CAMEC in 2009 also 
marked the potential expansion into  
the export coal business, through our 
Mozambique project, and a potential 
platinum opportunity.
We achieved more than just acquisitions 
during 2010, especially in terms of 
exploration and the definition of indicated 
resource:
•	 	 1 03 , 0 0 0 	 me tr es 	 o f 	 e xplor a tion 	 and 	 in fill 	 	
drilling in 2010 in the DRC; 92,000 metres 
still to be analysed at end 2010 
• 	 	 1 , 1 8 0 	 k t 	 c o n t a i n e d 	 c o p p e r 	 J O R C - c o m p l i a n t	
resource as at January 2011
 
• 	 	 O n g o i n g 	 w o rk 	 t o 	 c o n v er t 	 r e s o u r c e	 
to reserves
• 	 	 	 S i g n i fi ca n t 	 d ri l l i n g 	 p r o g r a m m e 	 p l a n n e d	 
for 2011
•	 	 2 0 1 1 	 pr oduction 	 t ar ge t : 	 33 	 k t 	 copper	
cathode; 10 kt contained cobalt
Platinum 
In 2010, the Group acquired an investment 
in Northam Platinum in South Africa of 
14.35%. The Group continued to work  
to resolve the sanctions issues relating  
to its Zimbabwean project.
exploration for african coal 
•	 	 Drilling 	 commenced 	 on 	 Nor th 	 Shor e
  
• 	 	 	 I n - h o u s e 	 i n f err e d 	 r e s o u r c e 	 e s t i m a t e	
(non-JORC compliant) for North Shore  
of 1.35 billion tonnes
•	 	 	 P r oject 	 E s tima 	 ( Licence 	 8 7 1 ) 	 has	 
a historic JORC-compliant resource  
of 1.03 billion tonnes
 
•	 	 	 F easibi lit y 	 s tudy 	 commissioned	 
for Project Estima (Licence 871) – 
completion expected in 2011
We continued drilling for coal in 
Mozambique, and our overall resource 
base is currently well over 2 billion tonnes. 
We have been very pleased with the drilling 
results to date and believe that we will, over 
time, report significant additional tonnage. 20__Unlocking Resources
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
Alumina and Aluminium – the completion  •
of the 125 ktpa Phase 2 of the aluminium 
smelter in early May, the ongoing 
expansion of alumina production to  
1.7 mtpa in 2011 and the initiation of 
construction of a 136 ktpa anode plant.
Energy – the commissioning of the new  •
overburden conveyor in June; and 
Other Non-ferrous – the commissioning   •
of Phase 1 of the cobalt SX/EW plant, 
which started production in Q4 2010.
At the start of 2011 management 
re-evaluated planned capital expenditure. 
The Group has added the purchase of 
wagons and trucks in the Logistics Division, 
reassessed investments in the Other 
Non-ferrous Division which were increased 
to US$810 million and made additional 
changes to the Energy Division spend.  
We have also included the projected spend 
on the BML Project and MIBA, both in Brazil. 
As a result, ‘Execution’ and ‘Planning and 
Design’ (both formerly ‘In Progress’) and 
‘Pre-feasibility’ (formerly ‘Under Review’) 
capital expenditure totals US$11.1 billion.
In 2011 capital expenditure is expected to 
amount to about US$2.5 billion (excluding 
BML), as we accelerate a number of the 
Group’s key growth initiatives, in particular 
spend on the Aktobe smelter and in the Iron 
Ore, Other Non-ferrous and Logistics 
Divisions. 2011 includes US$0.6 billion for 
sustaining capital expenditure.
Industry overview
The stainless steel industry saw a significant 
recovery in 2010, with production for the year 
estimated at about 31.3 mt, up 21% from 
25.9 mt in 2009. China remained both the 
largest and fastest growing producer of 
stainless steel with an estimated 11.4 mt  
in 2010, accounting for some 36% of total 
production. The speed of the recovery in 
global stainless steel volumes, coupled  
with low stockpiles at the beginning of  
2010, tightened the ferrochrome market 
considerably and, as a result, the European 
benchmark price rose US 35 cents per 
pound (to US$1.36) in Q2 2010. The 
subsequent increase in ferroalloys 
production and a global slowdown in 
stainless steel output, created an oversupply 
going into H2 2010, which resulted in the 
benchmark falling US 6 cents in Q3 and, into 
Q1 2011, a further US 5 cents (to US$1.25). 
This has broadly followed the pattern of  
the spot price of ferrochrome in China, 
increasingly an industry bellwether. For  
the industry, capacity utilisation in 2010 
amounted to 84.5%. Looking forward to 
2011 pricing will depend to a large extent  
on Chinese demand. However, it will also  
be constrained by the still material spare 
capacity of the ferrochrome industry and  
the ability of China to increase production  
to meet domestic demand. Longer-term, 
higher costs, particularly in South Africa, 
should support prices at higher levels while 
supply constraints, also in South Africa, 
could provide further upside.
Risk
Throughout 2010 the Executive management 
and the Board had a regular dialogue with 
shareholders. These discussions included 
corporate governance and the business 
acquisition processes, as well as the 
perceived level of risk ascribed to ENRC.  
The Group is cognisant of shareholders’ 
views. We are aware that some of the 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates 
pose particular and often heightened 
reputational issues that need to be managed 
appropriately. The Group continues to be 
open for dialogue with shareholders, and 
other stakeholders, to represent its position 
and resolve any issues. 
On 3 December 2010, Congo Mineral 
Developments Limited, a subsidiary of  
First Quantum Minerals Limited, served a 
claim for an estimated US$2 billion on four 
subsidiaries (together the ‘Highwind Group’) 
of Camrose Resources Limited, a joint 
venture company in which the Group holds 
50.5% of the share capital, in relation to the 
Kolwezi tailings project. The Highwind Group 
has applied to strike out the claim.
In 2010, the Group continued to enhance  
its approach to risk management and 
established a Group-wide Compliance 
function. The Group is continuing with  
the recruitment of additional high calibre 
individuals. The further development of 
policies, processes and procedures, in 
particular to support the acquisition and 
integration process, is under way. 
US$ 2.5 billion planned
 capital expenditure
 for 201 1
Capital expenditure will require a strong management 
focus and in 201 1 we expect to deliver progress  
on the Aktobe ferroalloys programme, our iron ore 
investments and in copper and cobalt in Africa. ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010__21
For iron ore, the improvement in the Russian 
steel industry in 2010 enabled us to sell 
higher volumes to our principal customer, 
Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works (‘MMK’). 
However, this was limited by the iron ore 
surplus that continued in Russia. Sales to 
MMK amounted to approximately 10.6 mt. 
Sales to China, which doubled in 2009 
versus 2008, made up some of the shortfall 
in volumes to MMK, and remained broadly 
steady in 2010 at 5.6 mt. A Platts-based 
pricing formula has been agreed with MMK 
and will be valid until the end of 2012. There 
were some additional sales to Arcelor Mittal 
in Kazakhstan. The greatest opportunity for 
us to develop sales in the future is the 
ongoing industrialisation of markets in North 
West China, along with the access that will 
be offered by the Kazakhstani Government’s 
new China Gateway rail link due to be fully 
operational in 2012. The market for higher 
value added products is another opportunity 
for the Group, hence the project to build  
Hot Briquetted Iron capacity. Overall we 
expect China’s continued increase in steel 
production and its strong demand for iron 
ore to keep the market tight and support 
strong pricing in the medium term.
Outlook
The longer-term outlook for the Group’s  
main commodities and its main markets  
of China, other Asia-Pacific countries and 
Russia, remains very positive as these 
commodity-intensive economies continue  
to grow. GDP growth in China appears well 
supported at the level of 7%–9% per annum, 
while the prospect for robust growth remains 
for emerging markets more generally. 
Furthermore, supply constraints, underpinned 
by a range of different factors, continue to 
affect our main commodities and support 
prices in the short term. Positive signs are 
also emerging in the United States and some 
European economies. Nonetheless, there are 
some risks for the immediate future as China 
seeks to control and redirect its growth,  
with ongoing uncertainties in certain 
European economies and as governments 
around the world seek to rein back on the 
stimulus packages introduced in response  
to the recent financial crisis and lessen 
inflationary pressures. Together these 
increase the likelihood of near-term volatility 
in both the price and growth trajectories  
of our commodities. Nonethelesss, we 
remain confident that robust demand will 
continue for our products.
In 2011 the Group will continue to seek to 
maximise its production potential. However, 
notwithstanding some limited upside in 
ferroalloys, iron ore and alumina and 
aluminium, as well as the continued building 
of copper and cobalt production, the 
capacity growth of the Group will be limited 
until its large capital expenditure projects 
start coming on line in 2013.
2011 will require the Group to maintain  
an intense focus on costs. Cost inflation  
is affecting the whole industry, but we will 
continue to focus on efficiency improvement 
initiatives. Costs growth is across materials, 
transportation, fuel and other inputs, as well 
as logistics costs, and all are expected to 
show significant growth in 2011; Kazakhstani 
labour costs will rise in line with inflation. We 
also expect some limited appreciation of 
the Kazakhstani tenge (‘KZT’) against the 
US dollar during the course of 2011 and 
are working with an average exchange 
rate forecast in the range of KZT142 to 
KZT144. The further development of  
our African assets will also be a factor 
impacting costs in 2011.
The Group’s strategy remains focused  
on growing long-life, scaleable and low 
production-cost assets to deliver value  
for our shareholders. Following last  
year’s acquisitions to develop the Group’s 
commodities and geographic asset base, 
management will be focused in 2011  
on proving the new assets, firming-up 
development plans and implementing  
the capital expenditure programme. 
Capital expenditure will require a strong 
management focus and in 2011 we will 
expect to deliver progress on the Aktobe 
ferroalloys programme, our iron ore 
investments, and in copper and cobalt  
in Africa. We are ready to initiate progress 
in Brazil as soon as the port licence is 
approved. We will not forgo the potential  
of further acquisitions as an important 
route for further growth, particularly those 
filling-out our portfolio and in line with  
our strategy.
With our strong balance sheet,  
the scaleable asset base, the low cost 
potential of our asset suite and presence  
in strategic locations, we are well 
positioned to enhance shareholder  
value over the longer term.
The Group’s strong performance in 2010 was  
built on the solid foundations of the businesses  
in Kazakhstan which delivered record production in  
the year. China’s economic growth and our strategic 
location remained key, while we also saw recovery  
in our traditional markets. Maintaining and exploiting 
our advantaged cost position was also critical.
