 4__Unlocking Resources
Chairman’s Statement
2010 was another successful year  
for ENRC. We continued to execute  
our growth and diversification strategy, 
including significant acquisitions in  
Africa and Brazil. Our operations in 
Kazakhstan continued to perform  
strongly throughout the year.
 
 
Dr Johannes Sittard, Chairman
EPS US cents
2010
2009 81
170
205 2008
Dividends per share US cents
2010
2009 12
30.5
31 2008
ENRC maintained its dividend policy and payouts 
throughout the economic downturn. ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010__5
Our people
Our operations in Kazakhstan continued to 
perform strongly throughout the year with 
record levels of production and capacity 
utilisation which, along with improved markets 
and management’s cost control measures, 
resulted in an increase in earnings per share 
of 110%.
The strength and focus of our management 
team has been critical for the implementation 
of our strategic plans. Kazakhstan has 
provided a stable platform on which to build 
the Group’s wider ambitions, supported by 
the country’s proximity to our main markets 
of Russia and China, its wealth of mineral 
resources and by the efforts of our 
employees. Our disciplined approach to 
acquisitions enabled us to make progress 
towards becoming a more diversified mining 
group. We believe that by extending our 
portfolio of commodities and products  
we are strengthening our business model.
The Group made significant progress  
in its diversification strategy during 2010,  
with material additions to the Group’s  
scope in both central Africa and Brazil. 
These transactions hold considerable value 
potential, and balance the opportunities  
they offer with the demands that are placed 
on internal resources and the complexity  
of realising integration synergies. We place 
considerable emphasis on thorough financial 
and legal due diligence and risk assessment 
in order to ensure the optimal return for 
shareholders over the life of the projects.
We continued to invest in training and 
development and this helps ensure that 
our workforce is better able to meet the 
challenge of integrating and developing 
our suite of assets. The commitment  
of our employees, in Kazakhstan and 
elsewhere, was instrumental in enabling 
us to take advantage of improving global 
economic conditions to deliver good results. 
On behalf of the Board, I offer thanks to  
all our employees.
The continued extension of health and 
safety initiatives throughout the Group 
remained a key focus. Although we have 
seen a reduction in the number of fatalities, 
seven people lost their lives at work during 
2010. Every fatality is investigated so that 
lessons are learned for the future. Our view 
remains that all fatalities can be avoided 
and are unacceptable.
Two new appointments were made  
to the Board in 2010. In January we 
announced the appointment of Professor  
Dr Dieter Ameling as an independent 
non-executive Director and in August,  
Mr Jim Cochrane, already the Group’s  
Head of Sales and Marketing, joined  
the Board and was promoted to  
Chief Commercial Officer.
In February 2011, Mr Felix Vulis, our 
Chief Executive Officer, decided to step 
down for personal reasons. The Board fully 
understands his decision and is grateful for 
his commitment to serve until a new Chief 
Executive Officer is appointed in order to 
ensure a smooth management transition.
We are pleased to recommend to 
shareholders a final dividend of US 18.0 
cents per ordinary share to be paid on 
15 June 2011 to all shareholders on the 
register on 1 April 2011 making the full year 
dividend US 30.5 cents. Our dividend policy 
remains unchanged. Payment of the final 
dividend is subject to shareholder approval 
at the Annual General Meeting which will be 
held on Wednesday, 8 June 2011. 
We believe that the global economic outlook 
is still improving and expect that 2011 will 
offer further opportunities for the Group to 
build on the success of 2010.
We continue to invest in the training and 
development of our workforce to ensure 
that we successfully meet the challenges  
of integrating recently acquired assets.
