 It gives me great pleasure  
to be addressing you for  
the first time as Chairman  
of your Company, at what  
is a time of significant 
opportunity for ENRC.  
I have been an independent Director of 
ENRC since the initial public offering in 2007 , 
and the Board appointed me as Chairman 
following the resignation of Dr Johannes 
Sittard in early February 2012. I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank him, on behalf 
of the Board, for his extensive and lasting 
contribution to the Company, first as Chief 
Executive Officer and then as Chairman. 
Your Company greatly benefited from his 
commitment, vision and clear strategic 
perspective. We wish him all the best  
in his future endeavours.
Against a turbulent economic backdrop  
and a volatile commodity pricing 
environment, ENRC performed solidly,  
owing to the underlying strengths of the 
Group, notably the quality of its tier one 
assets in Kazakhstan. These world-class 
assets remain the bedrock on which our 
expansion programme is based. Following 
significant acquisitions in preceding years, 
management focus in 2011 was very much 
on the development of assets in order to 
unlock value for our shareholders.
Progress in the development of our assets  
in Africa has reinforced the Group’s confident 
view on the future of our business in the 
region. We are well positioned in Africa to 
progress our projects and increase 
production. Notably we have finalised the 
acquisition of some high quality copper 
assets in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo (‘DRC’) and completed a legal 
settlement with First Quantum Minerals 
Limited (‘FQM’). Through our assets in the 
DRC we are set to become a significant 
global copper producer over the next five 
years. The suite of our African assets in other 
commodities represents a solid platform for 
the Company’s future growth. 
In line with international best practice,  
we have improved our reporting on fatalities 
to provide additional information to reflect 
on-site non work-related fatality cases,  
which includes contractors. We are rolling 
out best practice safety initiatives across  
the Group. We will continue to do all we can 
to improve the safety of our operations with 
the aim of achieving a zero-fatality result on  
a long-term basis. 
ENRC is committed to fulfilling the highest 
standards of corporate responsibility and 
governance. We made significant important 
steps this year, notably completing our 
corporate governance review in September 
2011. This established a stronger Board 
structure in line with UK corporate 
governance best practice, with a 
composition and expertise that will best 
support the Group through the next phase  
of its growth. However, this is not an area in 
which we can stand still. We have continued 
to review Board composition, mindful of the 
need to progressively refresh the Board,  
with a view to affording it with talented and 
dedicated Directors exhibiting, amongst 
other qualifications, domain knowledge,  
long experience of best-in-class corporate 
governance practices, as well as corporate 
finance and strategy. It is our intention that 
the ENRC Board, representing your interests, 
maintains a clear value-focused strategy  
and exercises pronounced duty of care and 
oversight over the execution of such strategy 
4 Unlocking Value
Chairman’s Statement
Mr Mehmet Dalman, Chairman by your management team. I will lead this 
effort and I will be in a position to report  
back to you on our progress in the not  
too distant future.
We are also continuing to ensure that our 
internal compliance controls are robust and 
we now have dedicated regional heads of 
compliance in Kazakhstan, Africa and Brazil. 
We will issue our first comprehensive 
Sustainable Development Report in 2012 
detailing our activities in this area.
During 2011 we saw the departure of Mr 
Eduard Utepov, Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev,  
Sir Richard Sykes and Mr Kenneth Olisa.  
I thank them all for their commitment to the 
Company and for the contribution they  
have made. We also welcomed Mr Terence 
Wilkinson to the Board. Mr Wilkinson has  
a strong mining background with particular 
experience in Africa and, as an independent 
non-executive Director, is already providing  
a strong contribution. 
We are pleased to recommend to 
shareholders a final dividend of US 11 cents 
per ordinary share to be paid on 21 June 
2012 to all shareholders on the register on  
30 March 2012. 
In my role as Chairman I will lead the Group’s 
strategy which will be focused in 2012 on  
the development of our assets and unlocking 
their value. We anticipate a consistently 
strong operational performance across our 
diversified range of commodities in 2012 
and, while the market remains volatile and 
the pricing environment uncertain, we have  
a compelling mix of a low-cost production 
base coupled with diverse world-class 
assets which leaves the Group well placed 
going forward.
ENRC employs over 70,000 people 
throughout its operations. We are 
committed to maintaining a safe  
working environment for each and  
every one of them.
Employees at Kazchrome
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
www.enrc.com
Chairman’s Statement
