 The Group was able  
to maintain its low-cost 
position compared  
to our peers despite 
increasing inflationary 
pressures on our  
input costs
ENRC has delivered a solid operational  
and financial performance in 2011. The 
competitive advantage of our low-cost 
operations has underpinned our growth as  
a leading natural resources group, allowing 
us to continue our commodity-led expansion 
strategy, through the diversification of our 
asset base and the development of our 
product portfolio. 
The continued successful development of 
our strategic projects and expanding asset 
base has been a core focus for management 
in 2011. In Kazakhstan we have made good 
progress with our new Aktobe ferroalloys 
plant, with first production expected on 
schedule in the second half of 2013. We 
foresee that the highest demand growth  
in the industry over the next five years will 
come from speciality steels and foundries 
which require high quality high-carbon 
ferrochrome. Due to the planned production 
growth in our Ferroalloys Division, ENRC  
will be well-positioned to meet this  
increased demand. 
In order to further enhance our integrated 
model and maintain our advantageous cost 
curve position within the region, progress 
has continued in the Energy Division with  
the construction completed of a 325 MW 
power unit at Aksu in Kazakhstan. Work  
has also begun on the reconstruction of  
an additional 325 MW power unit. With rising 
transport costs in the Commonwealth of 
Independent States we have made every 
effort to increase our self-sufficiency within 
the Logistics Division, acquiring an additional 
2,517 wagons and 1,215 containers in 2011. 
In the African copperbelt we have been 
focused on the development and 
consolidation of our world-class assets and 
we have seen significant increases in both 
copper and cobalt production in 2011. 
A considerable amount of resource was 
spent in 2011 on resolving the dispute  
with First Quantum Minerals Ltd (‘FQM’) 
regarding the licence for the Kolwezi Tailings 
project. The agreement reached with FQM  
in January 2012 and finalised in March  
has put a period of uncertainty behind us 
and allowed us to acquire FQM’s processing 
plants at both Kolwezi and Frontier. We are 
now well-positioned to meet our strategic 
goal of becoming a significant global  
copper producer over the next five years. 
In Mozambique the feasibility study for 
Licence 871 in the Tete Province is set to 
complete in H1 2012. This is a substantial 
long-term growth opportunity, with the 
potential to strengthen our position in the 
energy sector and allow us to diversify into 
the coal export market. 
8 Unlocking Value
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
We remain confident in the 
outlook for our diversified 
mix of commodities due  
to sustained growth in 
emerging markets.
Felix Vulis, Chief Executive Officer Our operations in Brazil provide us with the 
opportunity to become one of the leading 
global iron ore players, providing us with 
entry to the seaborne iron ore market. During 
2011 we have built a considerable presence 
in the region, with a 175-strong team of 
employees based in Salvador, Ilhéus, Belo 
Horizonte, Caetité, Aritagua and Salinas.  
The location of the port has been moved to 
Aritagua so as to minimise its environmental 
impact and the focus in the latter part of 2011 
was on resubmitting our application for the 
port preliminary licence. We are currently 
awaiting feedback on our submission.
In 2011 we initiated a major programme  
to better understand and improve the  
quality of our key non-financial performance 
indicators and we have engaged 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to provide 
assurance on selected indicators. Work  
is underway to present our first standalone 
Sustainable Development Report in 2012. 
Developing our non-financial reporting is a 
long-term undertaking and our intention is  
to deliver high quality data in line with global 
reporting practices and standards.
In October 2011 we announced our intention 
to exercise the Group’s option to acquire the 
outstanding shares in Shubarkol Komir JSC 
(‘Shubarkol’) for a purchase price of US$600 
million. The General Meeting to vote on this 
related-party transaction was subsequently 
adjourned in November. After considerable 
engagement with shareholders, we 
reconvened the General Meeting for 2 April 
2012 to vote on the acquisition
1
. ENRC firmly 
believes that the acquisition of this high 
quality asset will enhance our position as  
one of Kazakhstan’s leading coal producers 
and further our strategic aims in the region. 
We are determined to deliver value to all  
of our shareholders. To this end, we will 
continue to look at all aspects of our 
business, including expansions, joint 
ventures and spin-offs.
On behalf of the Group’s management  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
our employees for their hard work and efforts. 
Safety 
The total number of work-related injuries, 
including fatalities, to employees in 2011 was 
63 (2010: no comparable data). The Group 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (‘LTIFR’)  
for 2011 was 0.49 (0.45 in Kazakhstan and 
Russia; 0.72 in Africa). A Group LTIFR was 
not calculated in 2010 as numbers across 
the Group were not prepared on  
a comparable basis. As with fatalities, our 
LTIFR reporting currently adopts Kazakhstan 
classifications across the Group and reflects 
cultural conditions in Kazakhstan. This  
leads to a lower number of reported lost  
time injury cases compared to international 
practice. This remains an area of focus 
through our work with DuPont looking at 
safety culture and behaviours.
We have improved our reporting to provide 
additional information to reflect on-site  
non work-related fatalities, which includes 
contractors for 2011. This is a key step 
towards adoption of international best 
practice reporting on fatalities. We will 
continue to take steps to align our 
classification process to international 
standards. The on-site work and non 
work-related fatalities numbered 13 in 2011 
(2010: no comparable data available). There 
were six work-related fatalities in 2011 (five  
in Kazakhstan and Russia; one in Africa), 
while in 2010 there were seven fatalities all  
of which were in Kazakhstan and Russia.  
We express our condolences to the families 
involved. Our safety programmes will 
continue to focus on understanding causes 
and eliminating fatalities.
1
  At that meeting, shareholders gave their approval to proceed with the transaction. On 16 April 2012 the Group purchased the outstanding ordinary shares of Shubarkol for  
a total consideration of US$600 million.
ENRC will produce its first Sustainable 
Development Report in 2012. Our 
intention is to deliver high quality data  
in line with global reporting practices  
and standards.
Aluminium of Kazakhstan
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
www.enrc.com Incident type KZ+RU 2010 KZ+RU 2011 Africa 2010 Africa 2011 Consol. 2011
Fatalities
Work-related 7 5 0 1 6
Contractors and non work-related
1
 n/a
2
7 n/a
2
0 7
Fatal injuries frequency rate
3
0.06 0.04 0 0.06 0.05
Lost time cases
Work-related lost time injuries
4
45 51 52 12 63
Lost time injuries frequency rate
4
0.41 0.45 2.88 0.72 0.49
1
  Non work-related fatalities include on-site events caused by alcohol, sudden worsening of occupational health cases, those events occurring outside of working hours 
and unauthorised tasks.
2
 No comparable information available for non work-related fatalities in 2010.
3
 Work-related fatal injuries only.
4
 2010 data not prepared on comparable basis to 2011 data.
2011 production performance
The Group’s key Divisions, Ferroalloys and 
Iron Ore, were impacted during the year  
by unscheduled equipment repairs, while 
production at the Alumina and Aluminium 
and Energy Divisions reflected full available 
capacity. Copper and cobalt production  
at the Other Non-ferrous Division showed 
strong growth against the prior year, in line 
with our expansion plans for these assets. 
•	 Ferroalloys: Ore extraction amounted  
to 4.59 Mt (2010: 4.82 Mt), whilst gross 
ferrochrome production was 1.37 Mt 
(2010: 1.39 Mt), of which 1.23 Mt (2010: 
1.26 Mt) was high-carbon ferrochrome; 
total gross ferroalloys production was  
1.77 Mt (2010: 1.80 Mt). The modest 
reduction in production related to two 
separate fires at Aktobe, the emergency 
stoppage of furnace 63 at Aksu and the 
suspension of production at Tuoli due  
to market conditions. ENRC plans  
to divest its share of Tuoli in 2012.  
All other operations have returned to  
effective full capacity.
•	 Iron Ore: Ore extraction amounted to 
43.21 Mt (2010: 43.61 Mt). Saleable 
concentrate production was 8.46 Mt 
(2010: 8.94 Mt) and saleable pellet 
production was 7 .65 Mt (2010: 8.02 Mt). 
Production was impacted primarily by 
temporary technical problems with the 
pelletisers, which are now back at effective 
full capacity. 
•	 Alumina and Aluminium: Bauxite  
extraction reached a record 5.50 Mt  
(2010: 5.31 Mt). Production of both 
alumina and aluminium were also at  
record levels of 1.67 Mt (2010: 1.64 Mt) 
and 249 kt (2010: 227 kt) respectively. 
•	 Other Non-ferrous: Total copper contained 
production was 29.61 kt (2010: 20.27 kt), 
whilst that of cobalt reached 11.42 kt 
(2010: 9.65 kt).
Financial performance
The Group continued to deliver a solid 
financial performance in 2011 in a 
challenging economic environment. Revenue 
rose 16.7% and Underlying EBITDA was  
up 6.9% reflecting higher sales volumes at 
the Other Non-ferrous and Alumina and 
Aluminium Divisions and higher commodity 
prices. However profitability was reduced 
due to increased cost pressures. The Group 
was able to maintain its low cost position 
compared to our peers despite increasing 
inflationary pressures on our input costs, 
primarily raw materials, energy and labour. 
Excluding the impact of the one-off gain 
arising on the acquisition of a joint venture  
in 2010, EPS increased by 4.6%. Basic EPS 
fell to US 153 cents per share (2010: US 170 
cents per share) as a result of this gain in 
2010. A more detailed discussion of the 
financial performance is contained in the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review.
Capital expenditure
In 2011 we made considerable progress  
with our capital expenditure programme, 
with record capital expenditure of US$1.9 
billion (2010: US$1.2 billion), further 
developing our pipeline of high quality 
projects which underpin the Group’s growth 
strategy. Strategic reviews and project 
re-evaluations have nevertheless resulted  
in some delays in the realisation of capital 
expenditure projects in the Other 
Non-ferrous and Iron Ore Divisions. 
2011 was a successful year in which we 
completed the expansion of alumina 
production, the commissioning of Power Unit 
2 (a 325 MW turbine at Aksu) and continued 
the expansion of our railway fleet. Key 
projects across the Group’s Divisions include 
the following:
•	 Ferroalloys: Progression with the new 
Aktobe ferroalloys plant;
•	 Iron ore: Development of mine expansion 
projects;
•	 Alumina and Aluminium: Commissioning 
of alumina expansion and on-going 
construction of the anode plant; 
•	 Other Non-ferrous: Further development 
and review of the copper expansion 
strategy;
•	 Energy: Commissioning of Power Unit 2 
and reconstruction of Power Unit 6 at 
Aksu; and
•	 Logistics: Railway fleet expansion in 
Kazakhstan.
10 Unlocking Value
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued In 2012, capital expenditure is expected to 
amount to approximately US$2.7 billion of 
which US$0.8 billion relates to sustaining 
capital expenditure. The Group’s total capital 
expenditure programme for its expansionary 
projects is US$10.9 billion.
Acquisitions
In July 2011 the Group completed the 
acquisition of 100% of the ordinary shares  
of Dezita Investments Limited (‘Dezita’) for a 
total consideration of US$195 million. Dezita 
owns Exploitation Permit Number PE 1284 in 
the DRC, a potentially significant copper and 
cobalt resource. This asset is immediately 
adjacent to and contiguous with the permits 
held by the Group’s Camrose joint venture 
and its purchase is consistent with the 
Group’s strategy of consolidating resources 
in areas proximate to existing Group 
operations in the region.
In December 2011 the Group completed 
the acquisition of Rubio Holdings Limited 
(‘Rubio’), which indirectly holds 74% of Amari 
Manganese (Pty) Ltd (‘Amari’), for a total 
consideration of US$295 million. Amari’s  
key asset is the Kongoni Manganese Project 
in the Kalahari Manganese Field in South 
Africa. This acquisition further strengthens 
our position in a commodity which we 
believe has very attractive long-term 
fundamentals.
In January 2012 the Group announced that  
it had reached a settlement with FQM to 
acquire its residual assets and settle all 
claims in relation to its DRC operations for  
a total consideration of US$1.25 billion. This 
deal subsequently completed in March 2012. 
Risk and compliance
Through 2011 senior management and  
the Board have had regular dialogue on  
key risks relating to the Company’s strategic 
objectives. We know that some of the 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates 
pose particular and often heightened risks 
that need to be managed appropriately. We 
are open for dialogue with shareholders and 
other stakeholders to communicate our 
position openly and effectively.
The Group continues to enhance its 
approach to risk management and internal 
controls, and is committed to the further 
development of policies, processes and 
procedures.
The Group is acutely aware of its obligations 
regarding compliance with all applicable laws 
and regulations, as well as our corporate 
value for fair dealing. We now have 
compliance officers across our operations. 
We have completed the first stage of ethics 
training, delivered online by an independent, 
internationally-recognised ethics training 
provider, and have trained hundreds of 
senior managers face-to-face. ENRC has 
also launched a whistleblowing hotline, 
independently administered by the same 
ethics training provider, which operates 24 
hours a day, 365 days a year, in five 
languages. We have a robust investigations 
policy and we are now able to effectively and 
thoroughly investigate whistleblowing reports 
and other issues, and take appropriate 
corrective action. 
Outlook
Although the volatility in global markets 
persists in 2012, particularly concerning the 
sovereign debt crisis in Europe, we remain 
confident in the outlook for our diversified 
mix of commodities due to sustained growth 
in emerging markets. Our operations are 
expected to perform at full available capacity 
in 2012 to meet this demand, with increased 
copper production in the Other Non-ferrous 
Division as we continue to grow volumes  
in the DRC. We expect that inflationary cost 
pressures will be evident across the Group 
again in 2012 but we will make every effort  
to continue to focus on cost saving initiatives 
to ensure that our relative low-cost position 
and competitive advantage is maintained.
Felix J Vulis
Chief Executive Officer
ENRC continues to enhance its approach 
to risk management and the further 
development of practices, processes and 
procedures.
Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
www.enrc.com
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
