  
Europa Oil & Gas (Holdings) plc 
 
7 
 
Interview with CEO Hugh Mackay on the CPR 
On 1
st
 June 2012, Europa published a Competent Person’s Report (CPR) undertaken by 
ERC Equipoise. CEO Hugh Mackay discusses the findings of the CPR.  
 
 
Q: You commissioned a Competent Person’s Report (CPR) this year – what was the rationale for 
that? 
A: It’s natural that management believes in the Company’s assets – but it’s prudent to get a 3
rd
 party 
to review them and give their independent assessment of risk and reward. It is also our intent to provide 
the market with complete clarity on our asset base so we have made the entire CPR publicly available on 
our website. 
 
Q. Why were ERC Equipoise chosen to undertake the CPR?  
A.   ERC Equipoise is a well established provider of independent reserves and resources reports with 
a strong reputation in the upstream oil industry. 
 
Q: And what did the CPR say?  
A: At 48.2 mmboe the CPR's estimate of our core recoverable reserves and potential resources 
provides a solid asset backing to our current market valuation and will also play a key role in our ongoing 
negotiations with potential partners, specifically regarding our French Permits.  
 
Q: Were there any areas of disagreement with ERC Equipoise? 
A: The only significant difference in interpretation concerned resources for the Berenx deep 
structure. This was largely due to challenges mapping in a thrust belt using various vintages of seismic 
data. Europa had more confidence mapping in this complex terrain resulting in larger structural closures 
and consequently resources. The CPR estimates Berenx Deep holds a net mean contingent resource of 
277 bcf whereas we believe the figure to be 524 bcf. In the interests of consistency we have nonetheless 
elected to proceed with ERC’s more conservative reserves figures for Berenx in our public documents and 
in our subsequent net asset value calculations. 
 
 
Q.  The CPR covered the UK and French assets but why did the CPR not include volumetrics for 
Berenx shallow or the Tarbes Licences? 
A. Additional data would be required before these assets could be included in the CPR. ERC did 
suggest that the Berenx shallow structure is a lead with gas initially in place of 75 bcf. Europa considers 
this a prospect with gross mean unrisked resources of 59 bcf. 
 
Q.  ERC classified Berenx Deep as having 277 bcf of contingent resources, can you explain the 
significance of the term ‘contingent resources’? 
A. The SPE-PRMS Guidelines define contingent resources as “those quantities of petroleum 
estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known accumulations by application of 
development projects, but which are not considered currently recoverable due to one or more 
contingences.”    
Europa Oil & Gas (Holdings) plc 
 
8 
 
Berenx deep is a known accumulation that has flowed gas to surface. The definition of contingent 
resources is significant for Berenx since it acknowledges that geological risk has been eliminated, it is an 
appraisal project. Commercial recovery is dependent on the ability to predict and access natural fracture 
systems capable of delivering commercial rates of production. 
 
Q.  Did the CPR’s volumetrics for PEDL180/182 take account of the 3D seismic acquired earlier in 
the year? 
A. No they did not. The processed 3D seismic did not become available until May and was too late 
to include in the report, indeed interpretation of the dataset is ongoing. We anticipate confirming new 
resources based on the new 3D dataset later in 2012. 
 
Q.  The CPR estimate for remaining reserves at the three UK producing fields at 0.65 mmbo.  Is 
there scope to increase this? 
A. Yes there is. The CPR indicates 3P reserves of 1 million barrels; most of the additional 350,000 
barrels in the “possible” category is located in the West Firsby field. We are actively evaluating ways of 
accessing this upside.  
  
Q: What next? 
A I am delighted to have received this independent assessment of Europa's UK and French licences 
which supports our view that our UK exploration assets at Wressle and Broughton each have the 
potential to create significant value for shareholders, while Berenx in France could be the company maker 
we believe it is. Since completing the CPR two new prospects, Mullen and Kiernan, have been identified 
offshore Ireland. Technical work to de-risk the prospects is ongoing and additional seismic acquisition will 
be required to mature these prospects to drillable status. Mullen and Kiernan can be included in a future 
CPR either as individual projects or as part of a company-wide review.  
 
  
