 02
Syntopix Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Introduction
We are pleased to report our maiden preliminary results following 
Syntopix Group plc’s successful listing on AIM on the London Stock Exchange 
in March 2006. These results cover the 12 month period from 1 August 2005 
to 31 July 2006. During the period under review, and post the period end, 
Syntopix has made excellent progress in its drug discovery and development 
activities and in the corporate development of the Group.
Our business
Syntopix’s objective is to develop products to address dermatology diseases, 
in particular acne and superﬁcial staphylococcal infections, including those 
due to MRSA. Our strategy is to identify individual antimicrobial compounds 
and synergistic combinations of compounds that already have a history 
of safe use in man, possibly in other indications. This strategy is likely to 
reduce the high risks and costs of early drug discovery, and reduce the 
time to market when compared with conventional drug development. 
Central to the delivery of the Group’s strategy is a novel screening process 
that combines validated antimicrobial and pharmacological tests, allowing 
early identiﬁcation of active compounds and combinations of compounds 
enabling the most promising compounds to be fast-tracked as lead candidates 
for further studies. Syntopix has already identiﬁed three lead candidates for 
development, and is now progressing these into preliminary clinical studies 
and formulation, with clinical studies expected to commence in 2007. 
The Group has patent applications progressing covering the compounds 
being taken into development.
The Group believes the dermatology market, with estimated global sales 
of more than $10 billion, is particularly attractive, in part because major 
pharmaceutical companies have chosen in general to focus their activities 
on other larger therapeutic areas. As a result there has been a lack of 
innovation in dermatology along with clear evidence of unmet medical 
need, creating signiﬁcant opportunities for the Group. 
Syntopix also carries out some consultancy and contract research 
services for companies in the dermatology area. These services are 
valuable in nurturing relationships with potential commercial/licensing 
partners. They maintain Syntopix’s visibility with such companies but 
the revenues from these services are not planned to be signiﬁcant.
The commercialisation strategy at Syntopix is to out-license its products 
to signiﬁcant players in dermatology for sales and marketing following 
proof of concept clinical studies that will be carried out by the Group 
or phase II clinical studies as appropriate. 
Chairman’s statement
Syntopix has made excellent progress in its drug   discovery and development activities 
“ The last twelve months have been exciting for Syntopix. The Group has proved 
that its screening methodology identiﬁes strong candidate products. It has 
consolidated its laboratory capability and moved its operations to Bradford. 
It has a strong patent portfolio and is now progressing its lead candidates 
into pre-clinical development.”
_0_SYN_2006arf.indd   2 10/11/2006   15:22:53 03
Syntopix Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
The Board
In early January 2006 Dr Helen Shaw joined the Board of Syntopix Ltd  
as a Non-Executive Director. Helen has many years of experience as 
Medical Director at Boots Healthcare International, and brings valuable 
clinical and drug development experience to Syntopix. In July 2006, we 
also recruited Dr Stephen Jones to the Group as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer. 
Stephen, who was also appointed to the Board, is a highly experienced 
pharmaceutical executive with a track record in both branded medicine 
and consumer healthcare and a successful history of new product 
development. He was most recently at GlaxoSmithKline where he held the 
position of Vice President and Director of Consumer Healthcare Research 
and Development.
Financials
In March 2006 the Group raised £3.3 million of new capital, net of expenses, 
and was admitted to AIM on the London Stock Exchange. This capital will allow 
the Group to progress its candidate drug products through pre-clinical 
studies and into clinical trials for out-licensing to partners. The spend proﬁle 
of the Group is as expected, with modest growth of in-house research 
expenditure. In October 2005 the Group moved its operations to the 
Institute for Pharmaceutical Innovation at the University of Bradford, which 
offers excellent laboratory facilities sufﬁcient for the foreseeable future 
needs of the Group. This move was very cost-effective, as the Group’s 
rent is lower, and it also qualiﬁes Syntopix for both European and regional 
grant support. 
Outlook
The last twelve months have been exciting for Syntopix. The Group has proved 
that its screening methodology identiﬁes strong candidate products. It has 
consolidated its laboratory capability and moved its operations to Bradford. 
It has a strong patent portfolio and is now progressing its lead candidates into 
preliminary clinical development. Syntopix has a strong capability to develop 
a pipeline of innovative dermatological products. The funding is now in place 
to drive its product candidates through the clinic and into commercial 
relationships with the objective of realising signiﬁcant value for shareholders.
Dr Gwyn Humphreys
Chairman
27 September 2006 
 
Syntopix has made excellent progress in its drug   discovery and development activities 
“ Syntopix has a strong capability to develop a pipeline of innovative 
dermatological products. The funding is now in place to drive its product 
candidates through the clinic and into commercial relationships with the objective 
of realising signiﬁcant value for shareholders.”
_0_SYN_2006arf.indd   3 10/11/2006   15:22:58
