 EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
12 
Chairman’s Statement
Alexander Abramov
Dear Stakeholders,
2011 was a landmark year in the 
development of EVRAZ. We produced 
a robust operating performance 
in volatile markets, posted strong 
financial results, delivered against 
key management objectives, 
obtained a Premium Listing on 
the London Stock Exchange and 
entered the FTSE 100 Index. 
That the group was able to deliver such a 
resilient performance in a year characterised 
by global economic uncertainty is testament 
to the power of our integrated business model, 
the sustainability of our strategy and the 
efforts of our management team and 
employees. 
Health, Safety and Environment
As a global organisation, our undertaking 
is to make the world stronger, safer and 
cleaner and to this end we are increasing 
our emphasis on the health, safety and 
environmental management of the Group. 
The safety of our employees remains our top 
priority and the Board is absolutely focused 
on improving our safety record. Our disciplined 
approach is beginning to deliver results, 
and I am pleased to say that our overall HSE 
performance has improved again in 2011, 
with our key indicators all showing 
improvement on the previous year. 
The Listing
The Premium Listing of shares of EVRAZ plc 
on the London Stock Exchange in November 
2011 was clearly a major development and an 
important milestone on a journey which began 
six years earlier when EVRAZ Group S.A.’s 
Global Depository Receipts began trading 
on the London Stock Exchange. 
We received overwhelming support from 
Evraz Group S.A. shareholders who almost 
unanimously accepted the offer to exchange 
their GDRs for shares in EVRAZ plc. As the 
only steel stock in the UK FTSE All-Share 
index, EVRAZ enables investors to gain direct 
exposure to this important global sector.
Although the new company, EVRAZ plc, 
represents the same underlying assets as 
EVRAZ Group S.A., the Listing enabled us to 
broaden our shareholder base, improve the 
liquidity of the Company shares, and provide 
better access to the international capital 
markets. Importantly, the Listing also shows 
EVRAZ’s commitment to the highest standards 
of governance, transparency and information 
disclosure. 
The Premium Listing of shares of EVRAZ plc 
on the London Stock Exchange in November 
2011 was clearly a major development and 
an important milestone on a journey which 
began six years earlier when Evraz Group S.A.’s 
Global Depository Receipts began trading on 
the London Stock Exchange.
Alexander Abramov
Chairman
Our strategy as a global vertically integrated business 
is clear . We want EVRAZ to strengthen its position as 
a world class steel and mining company and as the 
partner of choice for our infrastructure customers.  EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
13
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements
Strategy 
Our strategy as a global vertically integrated 
business is clear. We want EVRAZ to 
strengthen its position as a world class steel 
and mining company and as the partner of 
choice for our infrastructure customers. 
These priorities are supported by a set of 
strategic pillars that underpin our growth: 
health, safety and environment; people; 
customer focus and the EVRAZ Business 
System. We have made major investments 
in each of these areas in 2011, helping to 
support our platform for growth. 
The EVRAZ Business System encompasses 
a Group-wide philosophy which aims to 
transform the way the organisation conducts 
its business. A key feature of this approach 
to value creation through greater employee 
engagement is the incorporation of Lean
1
business principles to create a culture of 
continuous improvement. The outcomes of this 
approach are benefits for customers in terms 
of product quality and costs; an improved 
working environment for the workforce and 
greater flexibility for the Group to respond to 
market change as it occurs.
The CEO Statement and Strategy sections 
of this Report provide significant additional 
detail but, in essence, EVRAZ aims to attract, 
develop and retain the best people at every 
level throughout the Company. In 2011, 
we renewed our commitment to training 
and development including the EVRAZ New 
Leaders Programme designed to develop 
the next generation of senior management 
within the Company. 
Governance
EVRAZ is committed to ensuring our 
governance arrangements meet with the 
highest applicable governance standards. 
During 2011 we continued to review and 
strengthen our governance, at Board and 
at executive level, as part of the process for 
admission to the London Stock Exchange as 
a Premium listed company. The independent 
directors of EVRAZ plc are led by Sir Michael 
Peat, the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director. In addition, on 28 February 2012, 
Alexander Izosimov was appointed to the 
Board as an additional non-executive director. 
As a result, the independent directors now 
constitute half the Board of EVRAZ plc.
Dividend
In 2011, the Board approved a new dividend 
policy targeting a long-term average payout 
ratio of at least 25% of consolidated net 
profits (excluding one-off and non-cash items). 
We believe that this is a sensible level which 
rewards shareholders whilst retaining 
sufficient capital for the Group’s future 
investment needs.
On the back of our strong financial results, 
Evraz Group S.A. made the first dividend 
payment since 2008 during 2011 and paid 
an interim dividend of US$0.60 per share 
of Evraz Group S.A. (US$0.20 per GDR) 
and a special dividend of US$2.70 per share 
(US$0.90 per GDR). The Board has declared 
a cash final dividend for 2011 of US$0.17 per 
ordinary share of EVRAZ plc. This gives a total 
ordinary dividend for 2011 of US$317 million, 
which represents 50% of net profit adjusted 
for non-recurring items.
Conclusion
In 2012, EVRAZ will be 20 years old. As a 
founder of the company, I am very proud of 
what we have achieved over the intervening 
years from our beginnings as a small steel 
trader, to our current position as a world class 
vertically integrated steel and mining company. 
We are among the top 20 global steel 
producers, the world’s largest producer of 
rails, Russia’s leading steel manufacturer and 
an international leader in infrastructure and 
construction products.
In 2011 driven by our vertically integrated, 
global business model, we improved our 
competitiveness, maintained our share in key 
markets and further improved our cost base. 
Whilst the immediate outlook for our markets 
remains uncertain, EVRAZ has good overall 
momentum and we see opportunities to 
enhance our performance on many fronts. 
I am confident EVRAZ is well positioned to 
create value for shareholders in 2012 and 
to continue its record of growth.
Strong results, especially in an industry 
as competitive as ours, are not the result 
of chance but more the product of the 
accumulated efforts, dedication and hard 
work of our approximately 112,000 
employees. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank all our management and staff 
whose hard work and commitment contributed 
so much to our performance in 2011. 
Alexander Abramov
Chairman
EVRAZ plc
24 April 2012
1 For more information on Lean please refer 
to pages 32-33 of the report.
