 EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
14 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Statement
Alexander Frolov
Dear Stakeholders,
2011 was a pivotal year for EVRAZ, 
a period in which we reinforced  
our position as one of the world’s 
leading vertically integrated steel 
and mining companies. I am 
pleased to report that EVRAZ 
produced a strong set of results 
and a robust operational 
performance in 2011, laying a  
solid platform for future growth. 
In 2011, we also recorded a significant 
improvement in both our lost time injury 
frequency rate and fatal injury frequency 
rate, which fell by 23% and 50% respectively 
year-on-year. Our aim is now to make these 
improvements sustainable with the ultimate 
goal being to operate a zero harm business. 
We still have a long way to go and we will 
continue to focus on improving our safety 
management systems and promoting a 
strong safety culture.
The first half of 2011 witnessed a recovery 
in the emerging economies matched by 
improving demand from developed markets. 
However, in the second half of the year, 
the combination of a slowing US economy, 
fiscal tightening in China and the crisis in 
the Eurozone, caused a rapid collapse in 
confidence over the prospects for global 
growth. This led to significant uncertainty 
in steel markets and a noticeable softening 
of demand.
Against this challenging backdrop, EVRAZ 
reported a good set of results for the year. 
Our financial performance was robust, 
benefiting from resilient steel demand in our 
key markets, a favourable product mix and 
higher raw materials prices. As a result, our 
revenues increased by 22% to US$16.4 billion, 
EBITDA rose by 23% to US$2.9 billion and we 
delivered an impressive cash performance, 
generating operating cashflow of US$2.6 billion, 
up 59% on 2010. 
Our strategic priorities in 2011 were to grow 
our steelmaking raw material base and improve 
the performance and efficiency of our existing 
mining operations. During the year we launched 
a number of growth initiatives to improve 
productivity and secure our self-coverage in raw 
materials. We remain on track to reach our long-
term objective of achieving integration levels in 
excess of 100% self-coverage in iron ore and 
coking coal supply. 
At the same time, we focused on the need for 
operational excellence in our steel operations, 
firstly, in order to preserve our competitive 
advantage as one of the world’s leading 
low cost steel producers, and secondly, 
to reposition the business and increase our 
share of higher value-added finished products. 
We made considerable progress in pursuit of 
these goals: modernising existing facilities, 
investing in new projects and successfully 
shifting our production more toward value-
added steel products. 
Mining Segment
In 2011, we focused investment on the 
development of our iron ore resource base, 
primarily the expansion of the Kachkanar iron 
ore operations to ensure a steady supply of 
iron ore to our steelmaking operations in future 
years. As a result, our KGOK plant increased 
production of raw iron ore from 52 to 55 million 
tonnes. As a result of our continued focus on 
debottlenecking our mining segment produced 
7% more iron ore products in 2011 compared 
to 2010.
One of our challenges in 2011 was to stabilise 
our existing coking coal mining operations 
and lay the foundation for a future increase 
in production. The performance of our coal 
mines has been affected in recent years by 
a combination of negative factors including 
difficult geological conditions, mine shutdowns 
and temporary stoppages, divestments and 
the impact of more stringent health and safety 
requirements. As a result, the production 
of raw coking coal fell from 10 million tonnes 
in 2009 to 6.3 million tonnes in 2011. 
Operations were again disrupted in 2011, 
as we had to temporarily halt production at 
the Alardinskaya and Osinnikovskaya mines, 
for longwall repositionings and additional 
implementation of safety equipment. We 
completed these works in the fourth quarter, 
and restarted operations at all the mines 
involved. In October, we launched production 
at the Ulyanovskaya mine. As a result, 
production rose 19% in the fourth quarter 
compared to the third quarter.
In order to increase our coking coal self-
coverage and ensure adequate long-term 
supply as existing mines become depleted, we 
started construction of the Yerunakovskaya-VIII 
mine. We also looked at different options for 
developing the Mezhegey coal deposit earlier 
than the scheduled 2015 start date. 
We expect that implementing all these plans 
will result in production volumes of coking coal 
in 2012 surpassing the levels of 2011. As a 
result, our coking coal self-coverage should 
exceed 100% by the end of 2013, which will 
help improve the profitability of the business. 
Steel Segment
Buoyed by strong contributions from our core 
markets of Russia and North America, our 
steelmaking business made progress in 2011. 
With all our major facilities operating at full 
capacity, production volumes of crude steel 
rose 3% year on year to 16.8 million tonnes. 
Within the product mix, we saw a further shift 
away from semi-finished products towards 
higher margin, value-added finished products. 
As a consequence, the share of finished 
products as a proportion of total output 
increased to 77% from 75% in 2010, the 
highest contribution in our history. 
In 2011, we placed special emphasis on cost 
reduction and improving our product quality. 
We invested in the development of pulverised 
coal injection technology (“PCI”) at all our 
Russian blast furnaces, in order to significantly 
reduce consumption of coking coal and natural 
gas in blast furnace production. 
Our strategic priorities in 2011 were to grow 
our steelmaking raw material base and improve 
the performance and efﬁciency of our existing 
mining operations.
Alexander Frolov
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
15
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements
The modernisation of our Russian rail mills, 
when completed by the end of 2012, will 
ensure supply of better quality rails to satisfy 
the immediate demand of our major customer 
in Russia, Russian Railways. The next stage 
will be production of 100-metre heat-treated 
rails for high-speed railroads in line with the 
Russian long-term state programme to develop 
rail transportation in the country. We have also 
modernised the wheel production, significantly 
improving the quality of railway wheels made 
at our plant in Nizhny Tagil, supplied also to 
Russian Railways and commercial customers 
in Russia and other CIS countries.
Russia, our biggest market, put in a robust 
performance. The combination of supply 
constraints and higher raw material input 
prices led to higher steel prices. The key 
drivers of demand continued to be the 
construction and infrastructure sectors. 
Such was the requirement for construction 
steel that, for the first time since before 
the financial crisis, demand for construction 
steel in Russia outstripped supply. 
The domestic market accounted for 69% of 
EVRAZ’s Russian and CIS steel mills sales in 
2011, compared to 58% in 2010, reflecting 
improved demand and the shift to higher 
margin finished products. This increase was 
fully offset by a decrease in export sales 
volumes from EVRAZ’s Russian and Ukrainian 
operations, which reflects EVRAZ’s strategy to 
direct sales away from export markets where 
prices for its steel products were generally 
lower in 2011, to domestic CIS markets, 
where prices for steel products were higher.
EVRAZ North America produced encouraging 
results in 2011. Steel sales volumes remained 
at the level of 2010, but prices increased 
across all our product groups. We made 
investments in capacity expansion, adding 
capacity to produce API tubes at our structural 
tubing facility in Portland, Oregon and 
upgrading our rail facility in Pueblo, Colorado. 
The investment in Portland will double the 
mill’s total capacity, enabling it to meet the 
energy sector’s growing demand for specialist 
tubular products. The upgrades at Pueblo will 
increase the mill’s total capacity by 10%, to 
almost 525,000 metric tonnes of premium 
rail annually. 
Our results in Europe and South Africa were 
mixed. After a strong first half, European steel 
demand began to weaken in the second half of 
2011. EVRAZ’s European operations increased 
full year sales volumes by 8%. In South Africa, 
the performance of EVRAZ Highveld Steel was 
hit by poor domestic demand and a strong 
Rand, which created significant pressure on 
both prices and costs. 
Vanadium Segment
We are the only large-scale producer of 
vanadium in Russia and are well-positioned 
among the largest vanadium producers 
globally. EVRAZ continued to increase its share 
of the world vanadium market capitalising on 
its low cost competitive position and ability 
to accelerate production in response to 
customers’ requirements. As a result, EVRAZ’s 
vanadium division has managed to increase 
sales by 20% compared to 2010 and decrease 
inventories accumulated during crisis years.
Operational Improvements
In order to preserve our competitive advantage 
and compete effectively in the global market, 
we need to create more value for our 
customers and to do so more efficiently by 
using fewer resources, which is why we have 
introduced the EVRAZ Business System into 
the organisation. We are applying Lean 
business principles across our operations to 
create a culture of continuous improvement. 
Our goal is not just to identify cost reductions, 
but to change the way our entire organisation 
thinks and acts.
In 2011, we streamlined our business further. 
We moved into our new headquarters in 
Moscow, relocated our North American 
headquarters and started the consolidation of 
our European assets into a single unit. We also 
merged our two major integrated steel plants, 
NKMK, the leading rail producer in Russia, and 
ZSMK, Siberia’s largest steel mill, into a new 
unified business, EVRAZ United West-Siberian 
Iron and Steel Plant (“EVRAZ ZSMK”), creating 
one of the largest steel plants in Russia. 
As these two plants are located in one city – 
Novokuznetsk – we believe that such merger 
will make the business much more efficient.
Positioned for Growth
We are committed to enhancing our mining 
asset base, modernising our steelmaking 
facilities and improving product quality in order 
to maintain and strengthen our competitive 
position in our key markets. Since 2005, 
we have invested over US$5.5 billion in key 
investment projects aimed to achieve these 
goals. Our total capital expenditures in 2011 
amounted to US$1.28 billion. Some of the 
new investment projects will come on stream 
by the end of 2012, starting with the increase 
of production at our iron ore mine at Kachkanar, 
followed in 2013 by an additional 2 million 
tonnes of raw coking coal per annum to be 
mined at the Yerunakovskaya-VIII mine, and 
the start of mining at the Mezhegey coking 
coal deposit, with an estimated 700 million 
tonnes of reserves and resources. The 
development of new deposits will help to 
underpin our goal of reaching integration 
levels in excess of 100% self-coverage 
in iron ore and coking coal. 
By the beginning of 2013, we will also start 
using pulverised coal injection technology (PCI) 
at all our Russian steelmaking facilities, which 
will reduce coking coal consumption by 20% 
and eliminate the need for natural gas in 
blast furnace production, thus lowering our 
steelmaking costs.
We are continuing to modernise and expand 
existing steel facilities, commission new steel 
mills, and invest in new production technology. 
The reconstruction of our Russian rail mills at 
EVRAZ ZSMK and EVRAZ NTMK should be 
completed in 2012, enabling EVRAZ to increase 
its manufacturing capacity for high-speed rails 
and improve the quality of the products. 
In 2013 we expect two new rolling mills, 
in the south of Russia and in Kazakhstan, 
to start producing rebars and small sections 
from internally supplied billets. This will 
allow us to further increase the proportion 
of higher value-added products and raise 
the profitability of our steel operations.
Outlook
The long-term prospects for global infrastructure, 
a sector where EVRAZ has established a strong 
reputation and footprint, remain attractive. 
As a low cost, vertically integrated global steel 
manufacturer, EVRAZ is well placed to benefit 
from the increased emphasis on infrastructure 
development globally. 
In the near-term, the outlook for the global 
steel industry is likely to continue to be 
challenging in 2012. Our current expectation 
is for a modest overall rise in steel consumption, 
driven by demand from the emerging markets. 
The wider global economy and, in turn, the 
steel industry, continues to face challenges 
and will likely remain volatile. 
However, we have substantial experience 
of managing the business in the extremely 
challenging environment of late 2008-2009 
so we enter this period of uncertainty with 
confidence. Inventories at traders and at our 
mills and ports are very low and we do not 
ship without a pre-payment, which minimises 
our credit risk.
We continue to run our steelmaking capacities 
at full utilisation and expect the situation to 
remain the same in the foreseeable future. 
This is expected to result in a slight increase 
in volumes of finished steel products in 2012 
compared to 2011 due to the completion of 
certain maintenance and modernisation projects.
In Russia, steel prices remained largely 
unchanged in the first quarter 2012 compared 
to the last quarter of 2011, but our cost base 
is increasing due to the strengthening rouble. 
Prices of steel products have remained broadly 
flat since the start of 2012. Russian Railroads 
remains a very strong customer and we expect 
it to maintain purchase volumes over the next 
few years. In addition, we expect to improve 
our product mix and generate additional 
revenue through our rail mill and wheel 
shop modernisation. 
In North America, demand for our products 
remains strong and its relative performance 
so far in 2012 is ahead of the comparable 
period in 2011.
CAPEX plans for FY2012 are expected 
to remain at the level of 2011 but we 
continuously assess the market environment 
and have flexibility in our CAPEX plans.
We strongly believe that the quality of 
the Group’s asset base, the competitive 
advantages we derive from vertical integration, 
its low cost position, geographic breadth and 
highly experienced management team leave 
the Company well positioned to continue 
to implement its growth strategy and deliver 
value to shareholders.
Alexander Frolov
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
EVRAZ plc
24 April 2012 EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
16 
Moscow
EVRAZ KGOK
Increasing the 
Prod u ctio n Capacity 
of EVRAZ KGOK 
to 55 mtpa
EVRAZ KGOK Asset Location in Russia
55 mtpa
55 million tonnes of iron ore per annum 
(targeted extraction of iron ore at EVRAZ KGOK after modernisation)
In December 2010 EVRAZ launched a project at EVRAZ KGOK 
to increase iron ore extraction and production to 55 million tonnes 
per annum from the end of 2012.
In order to achieve this targeted increase in production EVRAZ 
KGOK will acquire additional mining equipment, modernise the 
existing transport infrastructure and upgrade the production 
capacities. Delivery of the additional mining equipment is close 
to completion and construction works are ongoing. Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements
17 EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategy
