 The Board’s priorities in the prevailing business climate 
were to preserve the Company’s long-term competitive 
advantages and protect shareholder value in the face 
of diverse potential macroeconomic scenarios.
EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
08 
Chairman’s Statement
Alexander Abramov
Dear Stakeholders,
It gives me much pleasure to present our 
Annual Report for 2012. 
The year 2012 proved to be another 
challenging phase for the global steelmaking 
industry which operated in a highly uncertain 
and volatile environment. Despite this, EVRAZ 
delivered creditable operational and financial 
results which serve to illustrate the intrinsic 
resilience of the Company.
Corporate governance
Since our admission to the FTSE 100 in 
December 2011, we have undertaken a 
number of initiatives to further strengthen  
our corporate governance. These include the 
adoption of a new Code of Business Conduct 
which is currently being embedded across the 
Group, together with specific anti-corruption 
policies and initiatives designed to ensure 
compliance with the UK Bribery Act, including 
improved training and the implementation  
of refined internal procedures for employees. 
Furthermore, we have strengthened our  
Board with the appointment of Alexander 
Izosimov as an independent Non-Executive 
Director in February 2012, thereby increasing 
the ratio of independent Directors on the 
Board to 50%. We have also introduced 
changes to the composition of the Audit  
and Remuneration Committees in order  
to accommodate a better representation  
of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
I have every confidence that the professional 
experience, leadership skills, integrity  
and balance of interests reflected in the 
membership of the current Board and 
Committees represents the right blend to 
promote the development of the Company and 
set ambitious challenges for management. 
As the Chairman of the Board I fully recognise 
the importance of ensuring that my fellow 
Directors understand and take into account 
the views of our investors while deliberating 
Board decisions. In order to facilitate and 
strengthen the relations and communication 
between shareholders and the Board,  
Sir Michael Peat, our Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, began a programme  
of proactive communications with our major 
investors. In particular, Sir Michael has held  
a number of meetings with representatives  
of large investment funds which have been 
mandated to vote and/or engage in dialogue 
on behalf of investment institutions on 
matters related to corporate governance  
and sustainability.
Health, Safety and Environment (“HSE”)
Regretfully, the number of fatalities increased 
in the reporting year despite such focus and 
our ongoing investment in safety programmes. 
Sadly, there were some additional fatalities 
since the beginning of 2013. This experience 
reinforces my view that the Board still has 
much to do to drive the all-important changes 
to mindsets and safety culture within our 
operations. We remain committed to further 
improvements in the Company’s HSE policies 
alongside increased training for employees 
and a continuation of our zero-tolerance policy 
with regard to non-compliance with safety 
rules. Led by the Board’s HSE Committee,  
we have already drawn up additional 
programmes to mitigate the risk of such 
accidents in the future and the Board will 
continue to provide leadership in this area, 
monitoring HSE performance and working 
closely with management.
Furthermore we are fostering and overseeing  
a programme which will result in a more 
comprehensive level of non-financial reporting, 
including the publication of greenhouse gas 
emissions in anticipation of the introduction  
of the new UK regulation. Our intention is to 
create a sound platform designed to ensure 
responsible and sustainable development  
on the part of the Company. 
Strategy
The Board’s priorities in the prevailing 
business climate were to preserve the 
Company’s long-term competitive advantages 
and protect shareholder value in the face of 
diverse potential macroeconomic scenarios. 
Having reviewed and refined our strategic 
development plan we chose to concentrate our 
efforts on programmes designed to promote 
operational excellence at existing facilities, 
while adhering to strict capital disciplines  
with regard to new projects.
We are approaching the conclusion of a major 
modernisation programme at our Russian 
steelmaking facilities and are currently 
commissioning a number of mining projects. 
One of the principal highlights related  
to the purchase of a controlling interest in  
the Raspadskaya coking coal company, a 
transaction that establishes EVRAZ as the 
largest producer of coking coal in Russia.  
The approximately US$964 million acquisition, 
which will yield major benefits through 
enhanced vertical integration, was primarily 
funded through equity, thereby avoiding a 
commensurate cash outflow. The transaction 
was successfully completed in mid-January 
2013. A key objective for the Board during 
2013 is to ensure the smooth integration of 
Raspadskaya into EVRAZ’s operating model 
and the maximisation of operational synergies.
We constantly monitor the progress of major 
investment projects versus initial expectations 
and external market factors, a process that 
allows us to maintain flexibility in conjunction 
with our long term approach of sustaining  
a balance between financial stability, growth 
and shareholder returns. EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
09
Overview Strategy Operating Review
Corporate  
Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements
In addition, management continued to focus 
on streamlining our business model and 
assessing options designed to increase free 
cash flow. In line with this, we disposed of 
EvrazTrans, a transport subsidiary, to a third 
party for cash consideration of approximately 
US$306 million. This divestment enabled us 
to exit from a non-core asset while securing 
our transportation needs for the foreseeable 
future on advantageous terms. The Board 
intends to pursue further attractive 
opportunities to improve return on capital 
employed. We gave careful consideration  
to the performance of our assets and the 
strategic options available and decided to 
classify certain underperforming assets as 
assets-held-for-sale, namely EVRAZ Vitkovice 
Steel and EVRAZ Highveld Steel and 
Vanadium, thereby paving the way for ongoing 
options. In March 2013 we made the next 
step in this process by announcing the 
execution of a non-binding term sheet on  
the sale of our stake in EVRAZ Highveld  
to a consortium of South African investors.
Dividends
In 2012, EVRAZ continued to make dividend 
payments in line with the Company’s stated 
dividend policy of targeting a long-term  
average dividend payout ratio of at least  
25% of consolidated net profit adjusted for 
non-recurring items. In July 2012, following 
shareholder approval at the AGM, EVRAZ  
paid a final dividend in respect of 2011 in the 
amount of 17 cents per share (US$228 million 
in total). In addition, in August 2012, EVRAZ’s 
Board declared an interim dividend of 11 cents 
per share (US$147 million in total) based  
on the results for the first half of 2012. The 
Board, having reviewed the results in respect 
of the financial year to 31 December 2012  
and after taking into account the substantial 
deterioration in the respective prices of steel 
and steel raw materials towards the year-end, 
has decided to forgo the recommendation  
of a final dividend in respect of 2012 in order 
to preserve the financial standing of the 
Company and provide greater flexibility to 
manage the current market environment. 
EVRAZ’s 20th anniversary
Two decades ago my partners and I set  
up a small trading house which has evolved 
into one of the largest global steelmaking 
companies in the world with operations 
spanning four continents and seven countries. 
The scale of growth and the success of the 
Company would have been inconceivable had 
it not been for the hard work and dedicated 
support of our stakeholders – shareholders, 
employees, clients and trading partners.  
I would like to take this opportunity to  
express the Board’s sincere appreciation  
and congratulate you all on this shared 
anniversary. I am confident that the Company 
is well placed to continue to deliver value  
to all stakeholders through the delivery  
of operational excellence and sound  
financial results.
Alexander Abramov
Chairman of the Board
EVRAZ plc
I have every 
conﬁdence that  
the professional 
experience, leadership 
skills, integrity and 
balance of interests 
reﬂected in the 
membership of the 
current Board and 
Committees represents 
the right blend  
to promote the 
development of the 
Company and set 
ambitious challenges 
for management.  EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
10  Strategy
EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11
Overview Strategy Operating Review
Corporate  
Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements
EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11
