 EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
12 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Report
Dear Stakeholders,
The year 2012 was characterised by challenging 
trading conditions for the global steelmaking 
industry. Although some recovery was seen 
during the first half of the year, there was a 
significant deterioration in sentiment towards  
the year end. As a result, steel and raw material 
markets remained highly volatile with global  
steel industry capacity experiencing substantial 
underutilisation.
The subdued steel and raw materials pricing 
environment took its toll on EVRAZ’s financial 
performance. Although the Company 
demonstrated respectable operating results,  
we experienced a 10% decline in revenues to 
US$14,726 million against 2011, while EBITDA 
was 31% lower at US$2,012 million.
Overview of Health, Safety  
and Environmental performance
Throughout 2012 we brought a strong focus  
to bear on safety and risk management but, 
although we have made some progress in this 
area over recent years, we still have a long way  
to go. 
In order to improve the accuracy of our statistics 
in respect of lost time incidents we pursued a 
rigorous policy of zero-tolerance with regard to  
the concealment and/or misrepresentation of 
health and safety incidents throughout the year. 
Although the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
indicator showed an increase in 2012 compared 
with 2011, we believe that this partly reflected 
the consequent increase in reporting activity. 
However, I am firmly of the opinion that the 
efforts brought to bear by management on health 
and safety issues, typified by an intensified focus 
on the thorough investigation of all incidents prior 
to the implementation of necessary corrective 
actions across the Group, will ultimately lead  
to sustainable improvement in this area. 
Tragically, we recorded 25 separate fatal 
accidents at our operations in 2012 and 6 more 
since the beginning of 2013. We continue to 
implement additional training and improve our 
HSE culture to ensure that relevant issues are 
addressed in a timely and adequate manner.  
The underlying causes of any accidents are  
now evaluated and shortcomings addressed  
on a more consistent basis, with the ultimate 
objective of operating a zero harm environment. 
Our current priority is to appreciably heighten  
our employees’ awareness and understanding  
of HSE issues at all levels.
2012 market environment  
and business performance
During 2012 the global macro environment 
remained highly imbalanced and uncertain  
in both the emerging and developed markets. 
Many countries faced deep financial issues, 
encompassing the sovereign debt crisis and 
economic difficulties in the Eurozone, uncertainty 
in relation to the fiscal cliff in the US and a 
slowdown in the Chinese economy, particularly 
during the second half of the year, all of which 
weighed on world markets. As a result, overall 
world economic growth decelerated in the 
reporting year.
The negative macro sentiment affected almost  
all commodity markets, with the steel market 
proving no exception. The demand outlook  
for steel products deteriorated substantially 
during the course of the year. Volatility in 
steelmaking raw material prices promoted 
caution and led to destocking on the part  
of market participants. 
As a result of these factors, a promising start  
to 2012 gave way to a year characterised by 
challenges and we are therefore cautious about 
near-term prospects. However, EVRAZ’s strong 
competitive cost base, superior operating 
efficiency and flexible investment programme 
enable me to view the Company’s long-term 
outlook with confidence.
Steel segment
Global steel prices continued to soften 
throughout much of 2012 with steel demand 
subdued as a result of the uncertain 
macroeconomic environment. Despite this,  
we continued to run our Russian and North 
American steelmaking facilities at high levels  
of utilisation due to the cost efficient nature  
of our operations and the resilience of some  
of our niche products.
EVRAZ derives significant benefits from  
its ability to adjust production plans and 
strategically adapt output to meet market 
conditions. The location of key steelmaking 
facilities allows the Company to efficiently  
deliver steel products to Russia, CIS, Asia  
and Middle East regions, thus taking full 
advantage of a favourable situation in a  
particular geographical market. In Russia  
we decreased the ratio of export sales  
during 2012 in order to take advantage  
of the ongoing momentum in steel demand  
from the domestic construction industry.
Good progress was made in terms of our 
commercial objectives and management’s  
focus on maintaining our position as a low  
cost producer was reflected in the ongoing 
implementation of pulverised coal injection (PCI).
We also undertook a large scale modernisation 
programme in our railway product group which 
necessitated the suspension of operations at the 
EVRAZ ZSMK rail mill from April 2012 to January 
2013. The rail mill is now fully operational and,  
as a result, EVRAZ has increased its overall rail 
capacity in Russia to 1.5 million tonnes per 
annum and improved the quality and other 
characteristics of the rails produced. In addition, 
we established a separate division for railway 
products in order to concentrate the operational 
and sales effort, as well as to focus on product 
development in this important market. 
We also derive considerable benefits from  
the favourable locations of our steel facilities  
in the Western US and Canada which allow  
us to offer customers shorter lead times than 
competitors and save on transportation costs. 
This proved particularly important during 2012 
when demand in North America remained  
strong, especially for rails, while regional prices 
for tubular products also held firm. We have 
successfully implemented our expansion into 
high value added steel products (such as head 
hardened rails, premium connection OCTG tubes 
and heat treated seamless pipe) and we also 
succeeded in increasing the internal supply  
of steel slabs in Russia to serve our operations  
in Europe and North America.
Poor end-user sentiment continued to dominate 
European markets as the weak economic outlook 
and financial uncertainty persisted amid attempts 
to find a solution to the Eurozone debt crisis.
Our performance in South Africa during 2012  
was negatively impacted by industrial action, 
which interrupted production in mid-year before 
giving way to a prolonged ramp up period. Overall 
demand for steel in the African region proved 
sluggish. As part of our continued effort to 
improve allocation of capital, we decided to 
dispose of our South African steel operation – 
EVRAZ Highveld and signed a non-binding term 
sheet in March 2013. 
While we expect 2013 to continue to provide challenging 
short-term risks, we are committed to investing in our 
future growth by increasing mining volumes, improving 
our product mix and reducing costs. EVRAZ plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
13
Overview Strategy Operating Review
Corporate  
Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements
Mining segment
During the year we completed a number of 
significant initiatives which, we believe, will 
secure cost efficient long-term supplies of  
iron ore and coking coal for our core Russian 
steelmaking facilities. 
We achieved a solid performance in iron ore, 
reflected in relatively flat production year-on-year, 
together with the continuation of a high 
self-coverage ratio. The principal highlight was 
the successful ramp up of EVRAZ KGOK to 56 
million tonnes of iron ore per annum (9.7 million 
tonnes of saleable products) -- the lowest cost 
asset in the Company’s iron ore mining portfolio. 
This was accompanied by a number of initiatives 
designed to reduce costs and optimise iron ore 
mining operations. For more detailed information 
please refer to pages 43 to 44.
Coking coal production increased with our 
Yuzhkuzbassugol coal mining subsidiary 
producing 8.5 million tonnes of raw coking coal in 
2012 compared with 6.3 million tonnes in 2011. 
This is the result of continued management focus 
on operational improvements at all of our coal 
mining operations. For more detailed information 
please refer to pages 46 to 48.
Construction of the new Yerunakovskaya VIII 
coking coal mine, which enjoys a nameplate 
capacity of 2.5 million tonnes of raw coal per 
annum, was completed in 2012. We expect  
the mine, which was commissioned in February 
2013, to ramp up to full production in 2014. 
We have also secured project financing for the 
development of Phase I of the Mezhegey coal 
deposit which will serve to increase EVRAZ’s 
production of hard coking coal by a further  
1.5 million tonnes per annum. Mezhegey will 
produce hard coking coal which is in short  
supply in the Kuzbass region of Russia.  
In addition, Mezhegey benefits from a relatively 
low methane content resulting in improved  
safety and cost performance.
One of the major developments of 2012  
was the agreement to purchase a controlling 
interest in Raspadskaya, one of Russia’s  
largest independent coking coal companies,  
a transaction which closed in January 2013.  
The consideration largely comprised EVRAZ 
equity, a factor that served to lower cash outflow.  
I have every confidence that the purchase of 
Raspadskaya will secure the long-run low cost 
position of EVRAZ’s coking coal business while, 
at the same time, providing us with a strategic 
option to increase volumes with relative ease. 
Consequent to the acquisition of Raspadskya, 
EVRAZ’s self-coverage in coking coal surpassed 
100% and our intention is to deliver excess 
coking coal production to the market, while 
securing those grades of coal which are in  
deficit for our operations.
Vanadium segment
In 2012 we continued to be the only major 
producer of vanadium in Russia with an important 
share of the global market. Overall, EVRAZ’s 
vanadium business experienced a mixed year, 
with labour issues in South Africa and shortages 
of third party feedstock in the United States 
impacting negatively, while Russian operations 
ran at full utilisation rates to meet demand. 
Embedding a new culture throughout EVRAZ
We began the critical process of changing the 
Company’s culture through the introduction of  
the EVRAZ Business System (“EBS”) in 2011. 
EBS represents a radical transformation of  
the way EVRAZ conducts its business and I am 
delighted to report that we made good progress 
in embedding this new methodology across our 
operations in 2012. 
By way of example, I would like to cite two  
pilot areas at EVRAZ ZSMK which were chosen 
for the implementation of a new maintenance 
system – a section in both the long product  
rolling mill and the blooming mill – where more 
efficient organisation of work processes resulted 
in enhanced productivity and savings on spare 
parts and the optimisation of stocks which 
amounted, in total, to more than RUB121 million 
(US$4 million).
Another successful example is EVRAZ KGOK, 
where the repair times in certain shops were 
drastically reduced and productivity improvement 
projects have led to savings of approximately 
RUB37 million (US$1.2 million). For more detailed 
information on the results achieved through the 
utilisation of EBS please refer to pages 24 to 25.
Capital expenditure, debt position and liquidity
In 2012, capital expenditure totalled US$1.3 
billion with development capex mainly channelled 
to the development of the Yerunakovskaya VIII 
mine (US$135 million), PCI projects at Russian 
steelmaking facilities (US$109 million), the major 
rail mill modernisation programme at EVRAZ 
ZSMK (US$143 million) and the construction  
of mini-mills in the south of Russia and in 
Kazakhstan (US$72 million). 
As at the year end, our total debt amounted  
to US$8.2 billion with cash of US$2.1 billion 
(including short-term financial assets). This allows 
us to comfortably fulfil scheduled redemptions  
of US$1.1 billion in 2013. The current liquidity 
position underpins the manageable debt 
structure of the Company with the next major 
debt maturities scheduled for Q4 2014. 
Nevertheless, we continued to consider new 
funding options during the year, including the 
US$195 million project finance loan obtained for 
the development of the Mezhegey coal project 
Phase I. The structure of this loan provides for 
proper risk mitigation in respect of the enterprise, 
while enhancing the overall investment profile of 
the Company.
During the year we also continued to streamline 
the structure of our public debt covenants 
through the removal of a net leverage ratio 
maintenance covenant under a Eurobond issue, 
which served to align this issue with other 
Eurobond issues. 
2013 Outlook
Despite a positive start to 2013 in certain 
international steel markets we remain  
cautious with regard to the outlook for steel. 
Notwithstanding some recent signs of 
stabilisation, global prospects remain fragile,  
with strong downside risks and volatility likely  
to persist throughout the year. As a result,  
both producers and customers are waiting for 
clearer indications of sustainable trends.
Due to our attractive position on the global  
cost curve, we anticipate that our steelmaking 
facilities will continue to operate at high 
utilisation rates and, as a result, we expect our 
steel production volumes in 2013 to be broadly  
in line with the 2012 performance. Steel prices 
have been volatile since the beginning of the year 
while iron ore price has grown moderately, coking 
coal price stagnated. We are anticipating an 
uptick in the demand of steel construction 
products in the Russian market as the new 
construction season approaches.
Stock levels are well managed across our 
business. Export sales volumes are currently 
booked for over one month’s production and 
inventories at traders and at our mills and ports 
remain low.
In 2013, we expect to reduce capex spending  
by ca. 10% vs. 2012, as we approach the 
completion of key investment projects.  
The Company maintains sufficient flexibility  
in its investment plans to be able to respond 
adequately to a potential worsening of the macro 
environment.
While we expect 2013 to continue to provide 
challenging short-term risks, we are committed  
to investing in our future growth by increasing 
mining volumes, improving our product mix and 
reducing costs. Although the full benefit of these 
investments will be realised in the medium to 
long-term, we anticipate some positive impact  
in 2013.
EVRAZ’s leaders were ambitious in their plans  
for the Company when they founded the 
enterprise 20 years ago. Although the scale  
of the Company’s operations has grown 
considerably since then, we retain the same 
ambitions to develop EVRAZ into one of the most 
prominent steel producers in the world. EVRAZ 
enjoys a strong array of inter-aligned assets 
which leaves us well positioned to achieve our 
long-term objective of maximising shareholder 
value through a balance of investment, financial 
stability and dividend distributions. I would  
like to congratulate all our stakeholders on  
this anniversary and thank each of you for  
your ongoing support for management’s efforts 
and development plans.
Alexander Frolov
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
EVRAZ plc
