 14 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Interview with Don Robert, Chief Executive Officer
“We have so many great
opportunities that probably 
our biggest challenge is deciding
which ones to focus on next.”
Introduction |  Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements Experian Annual Report 2007  | 15
How have things changed for Experian since 
gaining independence?
For the great majority of us at Experian it has been
business as usual. We have a clear strategy for growth,
which we’re continuing to implement with enthusiasm
and confidence. The only significant change is that most
of our employees are now shareholders, which was the
result of a grant of shares at the time of the demerger.
For me this was one of the best outcomes of Experian’s
independence. It means that our people have a real stake
in the future of the company and can align themselves
even more closely to our goal of creating value for
shareholders through sustained profitable growth. 
Were you pleased with the Group’s performance 
last year?
Yes, I was delighted with our performance. It was our
fifth consecutive year of double-digit sales and profit
growth, which is a significant achievement by any
standards. We did exactly what we said we would do.
We delivered strong organic growth; we improved our
margins; we achieved strong cash generation and we
continued to deliver against our strategic objectives. Just
as important is that it was a balanced performance,
which came from all our principal geographies. 
Where do you see the best future growth 
opportunities for Experian?
Experian is well positioned to take advantage of many
long-term growth trends. In our core credit markets, we
are seeing government departments and companies in
sectors such as telecommunications and healthcare
wanting to make use of the expertise we first developed
in financial services. Fraud prevention is one example of
how we are successfully transferring this expertise to
different market segments. We are also seeing clients
wanting to communicate with their own customers over
multiple communication channels and to switch more of
their advertising expenditure to new media. This is good
for our marketing businesses and enables us to capitalise
on investment in services such as email delivery and
market research. The continuing growth of the Internet is
creating tremendous opportunities for our Interactive
businesses as consumers make greater use of this
medium for information and purchasing. And, of course,
we are also seeing increasing demand for our skills from
emerging markets such as China, India, Latin America
and Russia, which is helping to drive our geographic
expansion. Experian is a business with multiple 
growth drivers.    
What are going to 
be the main challenges 
for Experian going forward? 
We have so many great opportunities that probably our
biggest challenge is deciding which ones to focus on
next. As with any business, issues can occasionally
surface that are beyond our control, but we have the
advantage of not being overly dependent on any one
geography, client, channel or economy for our success.
One challenge we face all the time though is the need
for talented people to support our growth plans. We are
a people business in the real sense of that word and we
pride ourselves on being able to attract employees with
the skills and ambition necessary to develop and grow
our business. Talent management is one of our top
priorities and indeed our talent plans are regularly
reviewed by the Group Board.    
How is Experian preparing for the future?
By being in the right markets with the right products and
the right people leadership. Innovation is key to our
business and ensures that we continue to provide clients
with market-leading solutions. Last year alone we rolled
out over 20 new products. We are also expanding into
new geographies to create future platforms for growth
and to enable us to support clients on a global basis. We
are continually investing in our future - in people, in
products, in acquisitions and in our infrastructure. 
What do you think Experian will look like in 
five years’ time?
We’ll be bigger, with a greater presence in more
countries. Our clients will be even more diverse and we
will be firmly established in many different sectors
beyond our original financial services and retailing
markets. We will have an increasing number of clients
who rely on us to deliver wide-ranging solutions across
many different geographies. Our Decision Analytics
products will have become the global standard in 
their respective niches and will be deeply embedded
within our clients’ decision-making processes at an
enterprise-wide level. We will be a recognised leader in
all types of customer acquisition through our Interactive
and Marketing businesses. And many more consumers
will have Experian websites “bookmarked” as their
favourite sites for saving money and making important
financial decisions.
What is it about Experian that makes you 
feel most proud?
Without question, our people. Whenever I visit an
Experian office, wherever it is in the world, I am struck
by the energy and enthusiasm of the employees I meet.
We are fortunate in having a great team of committed
people, who I know share my optimism about the future
for Experian. 
20
Last year alone we rolled out
over 20 new products Nature of business
Experian is a global leader in providing
information solutions to business clients
and consumers.  
We help organisations to find new customers and develop
and manage existing relationships by providing data,
decision-making solutions and processing services. We also
help consumers to understand, manage and protect their
personal information and help them make more informed
purchasing decisions. 
Experian’s vision is that our people, data and technology
become a necessary part of every major consumer
economy around the world. 
Data: At the core of Experian are comprehensive databases
of credit and marketing information on both consumers
and businesses. These databases, derived from both public
and private sources, contain extensive high quality
information that not only has historical depth, but also
significant breadth across various types of data. The
comprehensive portfolio of data maintained by Experian
makes us a partner of choice for many clients as we offer
more information than any single competitor. 
Decisions: Building on this foundation of data, Experian
uses proprietary analytical tools to analyse and interpret the
data and to help business clients to turn raw data into
critical decisions in a timely and consistent manner. Our
tools also help consumers to make more informed financial
and purchasing decisions more quickly. 
Distribution: Experian has a very broad distribution network
helping both business clients and consumers. We sell to
clients in over 60 countries around the world, in many
different markets including the financial services, retail,
telecommunications, automotive and public sectors. This
broad distribution platform is unmatched within the global
information solutions industry. 
As described on pages 4 to 11, Experian has four principal
activities: Credit Services, Decision Analytics, Marketing
Solutions and Interactive. Our business is managed on a
geographic basis with the three key regions being: the
Americas; the UK and Ireland; and Europe, Middle East,
Africa and Asia Pacific (EMEA/Asia Pacific). This structure
enables Experian to understand the different needs and
constraints of each local market and to serve both domestic
and international clients effectively within each region. 
Additional detailed information on Experian is available in
“Explaining Experian” which can be viewed on our Group
website at www.experiangroup.com.
Markets in which Experian operates
Experian has a widespread and balanced portfolio by
product type, by vertical market served and by country
served. As examples:
• In the year to 31 March 2007, 44% of sales came
from Credit Services, 12% from Decision Analytics,
21% from Marketing Solutions and 23% 
from Interactive.
• In the year to 31 March 2007, 58% of sales came
from the Americas, 25% from UK and Ireland and
17% from EMEA/Asia Pacific.
• Financial services clients account for 53% of our sales,
followed by 14% in direct-to-consumer, 11% for retail
and home shopping, 7% from telecommunications,
utilities and insurance and the balance from
government, publishing and media and automotive.
16 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Business review
Overview
Introduction | Business review | Governance  |  Financial statements
60
We sell to clients in over 
60 countries 
      • We have over 100,000 clients, of which the top ten
account for 17% of sales and the top 50 clients 36%
of sales.
• We employ more than 13,000 people with offices 
in 36 countries.
• We own and operate consumer credit bureaux in 14
countries and business credit bureaux in 7 countries. 
• We classify one billion consumers globally by 
socio-demograpic type in over 25 countries 
around the world.
As a result of this diversity, Experian is not overly
dependent on any one geography, client, channel or
economy. While Experian as a whole is clearly dependent
on the economic environments in which we operate, our
broad portfolio of products and markets served gives us
some resilience when our major markets weaken. New
products also affect Experian’s performance, as does our
success in gaining share in our chosen markets.
“Explaining Experian” details some of the economic
indicators that Experian monitors. 
Competitive position
Although we have
competitors in each of our
principal activities, there is no
single competitor capable of
offering the broad range of products
and solutions that Experian is able to
provide to domestic and multinational clients
around the world on the same scale. 
There is limited, if any, public information available on
the market share of each of Experian’s competitors in
each geographic region and across each principal activity.
In particular, because of the breadth of Experian’s
products offered around the world, we often compete
against niche local providers of services in our markets.
However, there are a number of larger and readily
identifiable companies that we view as our key
competitors, which are summarised below:
Credit Services: there are two other national consumer
credit bureaux in the US (Equifax and TransUnion). In the
UK, Experian is the clear market leader in consumer
credit with mainly local competition elsewhere. Dun &
Bradstreet is the only global business credit competitor.
Decision Analytics: the market leader in the US is Fair
Isaac; outside the US, Experian is the major player, facing
mainly fragmented local competition.
Marketing Solutions: there are some large competitors in
the US (such as Acxiom and Harte-Hanks) but
competition elsewhere is local, fragmented and often
specialist.
Interactive: Experian is the clear market leader in selling
credit reports and services direct to consumers ahead of
Equifax, TransUnion, Fair Isaac and other specialist
providers. Our sales are more than twice the size of any
of our competitors. The online lead generation market is
fragmented and Experian has strong market positions in
our chosen areas of operation.
Experian Annual Report 2007  | 17
85
%
85% of our top 50
clients have been
doing business with
Experian for at least
five years  18 | Experian Annual Report 2007
Growth drivers
Experian is well positioned to benefit from a number of
key drivers of long-term growth. These include:
• Global growth in consumer credit: this leads to
increased demand for data from our credit bureaux
and increased use of our Decision Analytics’ tools to
help clients control credit risk and prevent fraud. 
• Increased use of the Internet by consumers and
businesses to both research and buy products and
services; companies are switching more of their
marketing spend to the Internet, which helps our
Interactive and Marketing Solutions activities.
• Increase in multi-channel 
marketing: companies are using 
more channels to communicate 
with their customers - away from mass 
media such as broadcast and print and 
towards email, the Internet, SMS and interactive TV.
Our newer Marketing Solutions activities benefit from
this trend as we help clients to target the right
customer, with the right message, through the 
right channel.
• Increase in demand from new vertical markets: clients
in sectors such as telecommunications, automotive and
government want to use the same data and tools that
Experian has successfully developed for the financial
services industry. 
• Increase in demand from new and emerging high
growth geographies: as the use of consumer credit, 
for example, increases in areas such as Eastern Europe,
Asia Pacific and Latin America, this will drive demand
for Experian’s data and decision tools, although it is
difficult to gauge the ultimate size of some of 
these markets.
Overview cont.
Introduction | Business review |  Governance  |  Financial statements
10
%
All acquisitions must deliver a
minimum 10% post-tax return
over time
