 Chairman’s statement
These have been extraordinary times 
for the banking and financial services 
industry. Unprecedented losses, huge 
volatility, the dislocation of the inter-
bank lending market and subsequent 
recapitalisation of major banks have 
characterised the events of recent 
months.  
The extent to which the so-called 
credit crunch will impact beyond the 
financial sector remains to be seen, 
but it is clear that this next year will be 
another challenging one, particularly 
for companies with exposure to the 
US and UK markets, where the banks 
will continue to be cautious lenders.   
Within all sectors though, there 
have been companies that have 
performed well and I am pleased that 
Experian is amongst these. Despite 
the highly unusual conditions, 
Experian delivered a solid financial 
performance and continued to make 
strong strategic progress, which is a 
remarkable achievement.  
Experian’s management was quick to 
identify a range of efficiency measures 
and to restructure certain parts of the 
business so that it could better deal 
with the prevailing conditions. This 
will result in significant cost savings, 
as well as delivering operational 
efficiencies that will benefit us in the 
longer term.  
What this year has really shown is the 
strength of Experian’s portfolio and 
the many opportunities we have to 
drive growth.  
We have, for example, continued to 
extend our global reach into new and 
emerging markets. Our investment in 
Serasa, Brazil’s largest credit bureau, 
has provided us with a commanding 
position in one of the fastest growing 
credit markets in the world.  
We have developed new and 
innovative products for credit 
managers and marketers, as well as 
for consumers wanting to protect 
their credit records. And we have 
continued to expand into new market 
sectors, such as government, energy, 
telecommunications and healthcare.  
In the UK alone, we won four 
significant new contracts in the public 
sector.  
We have also made good progress 
in the management of our corporate 
responsibilities and in learning 
how to embed these within our 
everyday business processes.  
Experian was selected for inclusion 
in the FTSE4Good index of socially 
responsible companies and the Dow 
Jones Sustainability World Index.  
Our carbon emissions continued 
to fall, driven by improved energy 
efficiency and the use of renewable 
energy, and we played a leading role in 
initiatives to reduce the incidence of 
identity theft in the US and UK.  
Experian’s performance this 
year is undoubtedly testimony 
to the underlying strength 
of the business 
2 Experian Annual Report 2008
