 2 Experian Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s statement
Introduction
A major focus for us during the year 
was to address the new priorities 
of our financial services clients, 
particularly in the US and UK, 
where the emphasis has been on 
strengthening risk management 
and collections activities across 
their organisations. We responded 
by intensifying our client education 
efforts, reallocating sales resource 
and quickly bringing to market a wide 
range of countercyclical products 
to satisfy the entire range of client 
needs. These products remain in 
high demand and have secured  
us a number of multi-country  
client contracts. 
Experian’s Consumer Direct 
business, which enables consumers 
to monitor their personal credit files, 
grew strongly in both the US and 
UK as consumers chose to actively 
manage their credit status. Our 
increased investment in consumer 
marketing, the growing contribution 
from affinity partners, such as 
American Express and Discover, 
and demand for new identity theft 
protection products all contributed 
to Experian extending its lead in this 
growing market.
Outside of financial services, we 
continued to diversify by taking our 
core data and analytics products into 
markets such as the public sector, 
healthcare and telecommunications.  
We also expanded our global 
footprint, winning substantial 
contracts in Eastern Europe and Asia 
Pacific, and opening a new credit 
bureau in Morocco. In Latin America, 
where we significantly increased 
our presence during 2007 with the 
acquisition of Serasa, our business 
went from strength to strength, 
meeting the need for more advanced 
credit reference and customer 
management products.   
Experian’s diverse and well 
balanced business model has been 
a major factor in our ability to keep 
on growing through the current 
economic cycle. However, we should 
also recognise the outstanding 
efforts of the management team 
in successfully redirecting our 
business towards areas of greatest 
need and opportunity, while 
continuing to reduce costs across 
the business. Our people have 
responded superbly to the  
challenge and I thank them all for 
their tremendous co-operation  
and energy.   
 
Since the year end, Experian’s 
board has been strengthened by 
the appointment of Chris Callero 
as an executive director. Chris is 
the President and Chief Operating 
Officer for Experian and has played 
a central role in Experian’s success, 
particularly in North and Latin 
America, since joining the Group 
in 2002. Sean FitzPatrick stood 
down as a non-executive director 
in December 2008 and we are very 
grateful for the valuable contribution 
he made to our business. 
  
Despite the difficult market 
conditions, corporate responsibility 
remained a priority for Experian 
during the year and we considerably 
widened the scope of our  
CR reporting to include the  
EMEA/Asia Pacific region for the 
first time. We also provided greater 
focus for our global community 
programme by concentrating on 
projects that provide financial 
education to vulnerable people and 
that encourage entrepreneurial 
skills combined with wise financial 
planning. In the UK, we increased 
the level of employee volunteering 
and won two awards from Business 
in the Community. Overall, 
notwithstanding the economic 
pressures and cost saving  
initiatives, the Group gave more 
to our communities than in any 
previous year.  
Looking ahead, it is clear that the 
economic environment will remain 
challenging for some time to come. 
Experian has, however, strengthened 
its overall market position this 
year, reduced its operating costs 
and continued to invest in new 
opportunities for growth, which 
leaves us well placed as conditions 
improve. In the meantime, we 
remain committed to our successful 
strategy of focusing on data and 
analytics, driving profitable growth 
and optimising capital efficiency.
Experian delivered another strong performance this year against 
a backdrop of exceptionally challenging market conditions. It is an 
achievement that clearly demonstrates the resilience of Experian’s 
core business and the benefits we derive from our broad portfolio 
of capabilities, but it has also shown just how quickly the Group can 
adapt to changing circumstances.
 John Peace
 Chairman
