 Chairman ’ s	letter
4  ::  Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report 2010
2010 was a year of exceptional progress 
for Faroe Petroleum on a number of 
fronts, including two major discoveries 
in Norway. As we continue to grow 
and mature our frontier and near-field 
exploration portfolio, the Company has 
again been very successful in Norwegian 
and UK licensing rounds, demonstrating 
the high quality of technical competence 
within the team. 
Our production will more than double 
following completion of the acquisition  
of a material stake in the Blane oil field.
Chairman’s letter
John Bentley  
Chairman Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report 2010 ::  5
Chairman ’ s	letter
Dear	Shar eholders
Successes 
2010 was a year of exceptional progress for Faroe 
Petroleum on a number of fronts, including two major 
discoveries in Norway. As we continue to grow and 
mature our frontier and near-field exploration portfolio, 
the Company has again been very successful in 
Norwegian and UK licensing rounds, demonstrating the 
high quality of technical competence within the team. 
Our production will more than double following 
completion of the acquisition of a material stake in the 
Blane oil field.  We also successfully raised substantial 
new equity funds in the year thereby ensuring that we 
have a strong balance sheet to underpin our active 
growth plans.  On the shareholder front, I am pleased 
that our new alliance with Scottish and Southern 
Energy (“SSE”), designed to develop wider co-operation 
between our companies, has been cemented in the form 
of a 5% shareholding in Faroe.  Faroe now has two strong 
industrial shareholders with both SSE and Korea National 
Oil Corporation, the new owners of Dana Petroleum. 
These successes underline the quality of our portfolio, 
the robustness of our business model, and the ingenuity 
and skill of our team.
Strategy 
Faroe has, through careful portfolio and financial 
management, ensured that at all times it has the 
necessary funding in place to advance its strategy, in 
particular in order to participate with material stakes 
in its multiple-well drilling campaign.  A number of 
world-class high-impact prospects are being targeted 
in the programme, several of which will be tested in the 
coming period, with the potential to transform the value 
of the Company. 
We have stated our intent to increase production further, 
through a combination of transactions and, where 
appropriate, organic development, with the objective 
of progressively self-funding our continuing exploration 
programme.  Any new production additions will be 
designed to optimise our tax position and leverage debt 
where appropriate.  
Board Appointment 
In our continuous programme of ensuring good 
corporate governance, we have further strengthened the 
Board with the appointment of Norwegian national and 
a former Minister of Justice, Ms Hanne Harlem as a Non-
Executive Director.
Outlook 
Faroe’s team has built a reputation of pursuing and 
delivering high quality exploration and appraisal 
opportunities as well as partnering with some of the 
best and most successful oil and gas companies in the 
world.  The Company has, over many years, created 
an extremely exciting growth platform and a unique 
opportunity to achieve great things as an independent 
oil company.  Underpinned by a strong funding base 
we have built real momentum in our drilling campaign 
and look forward with confidence and enthusiasm to 
delivering continued business growth.
Faroe Petroleum is fortunate to have a strong and 
supportive shareholder base, which includes a 
substantial number of large institutional investors, and I 
would like to acknowledge their continuing support as 
we progress into a very exciting period of activity ahead.
John Bentley 
Chairman 
Chairman’s letter
