 6  ::  Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive’s review
win licences
• leverage our world class technical expertise 
• replenish exploration prospects 
• secure material equity stakes 
drill & discover
• drill five material wells per year 
• spread risk and cost optimally 
• partner with strong companies 
monetise assets
• exploit drilling success 
• trade assets across value cycle 
• maximise trade value 
generate revenue &
create value for shareholders
• increasingly fund wells from cash flow 
• build balanced production portfolio 
• achieve tax efficiency  Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report 2010  ::  7
We continue to grow and mature 
our frontier and near-field 
exploration portfolio, ensuring 
that at all times Faroe has the 
necessary funding in place to 
participate with material stakes 
in its multiple-well drilling 
campaign.
The Company aims to drill five 
material exploration and appraisal 
wells each year, in order to test  
the value potential of our 
prospect inventory on an almost 
continuous basis. 
Faroe also continues to prioritise 
the monetisation of discoveries 
in a timely manner and increase 
production further, with the 
objective of progressively 
self-funding our continuing 
exploration programme. 
Graham Stewart 
Chief Executive Chief	Ex ecutiv e ’ s	review
8  ::  Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report 2010
I am pleased to announce the audited 
results for the year ended 31 December 
2010, our most successful year to date.  
The team delivered two significant 
exploration discoveries with the Maria 
and Fogelberg wells in Norway,  
building on our two 2009 discoveries 
west of Shetlands.  Maria, in which  
Faroe Petroleum holds the largest 
stake at 30%, is reported to be one of 
the larger oil fields to be discovered in 
recent times in Norway.  
In April we raised £69.8 million by way of a rights issue 
of 69,823,124 shares at a price of 100 pence per share, 
which was exceptionally well received, with 93.1% of 
new shares being taken up.  In November we raised 
a further £62.2 million through a share placing of 
37,718,024 shares at 165 pence per share.  This has 
put Faroe Petroleum in a strong position to commit 
to new wells in our rolling drilling programme and 
invest in growing production through a combination 
of commercialisation of existing discoveries and 
acquisitions. 
Over a period spanning 11 years we have carefully built 
a focused, well balanced portfolio of over 40 licences 
spanning the Atlantic margin (Faroe Islands and UK West 
of Shetlands), Norwegian Sea, Barents Sea (Norway) 
and the North Sea (UK and Norway).  The Company’s 
exploration portfolio is focused on the core exploration 
areas of the Atlantic margin and Norway.  These areas 
are particularly important for several reasons: they have 
substantial potential to generate hydrocarbons; they are 
under-explored; they are receiving significant attention 
and investment from the major oil companies; special 
tax incentives are in place; they have low “country risk”; 
and Faroe has developed considerable expertise and 
knowledge in these areas.  
In line with our strategy of replenishing our exploration 
prospect pool, we were pleased to be awarded seven 
new licences in 2010 rounds.  Of these, four were in the 
UK 26th Round in partnership with E.on and Idemitsu 
in the West of Shetlands, all of which are operated by 
Faroe, and three were in the Norwegian 2010 APA Round 
in partnerships including Wintershall and Centrica.  All 
the exploration licence applications were identified and 
prepared substantially by Faroe’s technical team.  Faroe’s 
equity in the new licences is considerable, ranging from 
30% to 50%.  Our continuing success in winning prized 
licences in partnership with many of the world’s most 
successful oil and gas explorers demonstrates clearly the 
sustainability of our approach to exploration.    
The Company aims to drill five material exploration 
and appraisal wells each year, in order to test the value 
potential of our prospect inventory on an almost 
continuous basis.  The current drilling campaign includes 
eight firm wells and nine expected wells to be drilled 
over the coming two to three year period, funded from 
a combination of cash reserves, production revenues, 
and Norwegian tax rebates.  As licences in the portfolio 
mature, a continuous flow of new prospects will feed 
into the firm drilling programme.  
The high-impact West of Shetland Lagavulin exploration 
well is due to reach target depth in the coming weeks.  
We are preparing to drill the Fulla well  in shallow water, 
west of Shetlands, which will be Faroe’s first well as 
operator, and for which a rig contract has recently been 
entered into for a well slot in Q2 of this year.  In line 
with our cost management guidelines, in early 2011 we 
farmed out a 50% equity stake in the Fulla/Freya licences 
to Canadian Overseas Petroleum Limited which will pay 
a 60% share of the drilling costs.  The Company has also 
committed to operate the shallow water Clapton well 
in the Norwegian North Sea, and has entered into a rig 
contract for a well in early 2012.  
In addition to pursuing a dynamic exploration strategy, 
the Company is focused on building a cash-generative, 
non-operated production portfolio.  At 31 December 
2010 the portfolio comprised five producing oil and 
gas fields in the UK and Norway.  We announced the 
Chief Executive’s review Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report 2010  ::  9
Chief	Ex ecutiv e ’ s	review
acquisition from Eni of 18% of the Talisman-operated 
Blane oil field in October 2010 and expect to complete 
the transaction soon.  Blane is an important addition, 
generating high quality, predictable cash flows, and 
making a significant contribution towards efficiently 
utilising our UK tax losses of some £67.7 million and 
thereby producing strong post-tax cash flows.  Including 
this new acquisition our production was around 2,800 
boepd in December 2010, efficiently contributing 
towards funding the continuing exploration programme.   
Blane is an excellent asset, well known to a number of 
our team who were responsible for its development 
during their time with Paladin Resources, the former 
operator of the field.
Another recent transaction is our acquisition of a 
28% interest in the undeveloped Perth oil field in the 
UK North Sea.  In this opportunity, which includes 
a number of additional exploration prospects, we 
see significant value creation potential in a licence 
well known by members of our team, with scope for 
near term monetisation.  Faroe Petroleum is looking 
forward to working closely with the operator, Deo 
Petroleum, to address the technical challenges relating 
to development of the Perth field, and to investigate 
further exploration and appraisal opportunities on 
the licence block, in advance of progressing to a field 
development decision.  
The Company operates a highly disciplined and prudent 
approach to financial management to underpin 
the exploration and appraisal programme.  Clear 
guidelines are set for project investment thresholds, 
and considerable effort is put into ensuring that all 
exploration and appraisal costs are well understood 
and allocated within a tightly controlled budget.  Cost 
exposure and financial risks are controlled through 
a combination of farm-outs to other oil companies, 
utilisation and financing of available tax rebates for 
Norway exploration, and a rolling hedging programme 
for commodity and currency risk.  We have managed 
our finances in order to sustain what is one of the most 
active and attractive drilling programmes of any small 
cap independent oil company, and we are confident in 
our potential to deliver significant value.
Faroe Petroleum has a highly experienced and skilled 
team of professionals with an excellent track record.  
Our cross-disciplinary team members have worked 
for a range of very successful oil companies, including 
Shell, Statoil, Enterprise Oil, Dana Petroleum and 
Paladin Resources.  In preparation for our upcoming 
operated wells we have recently added to our internal 
technical and HSE operations team.   For a company of 
its size, Faroe Petroleum is unusual in this respect and 
the benefits of investing in this team are now paying 
substantial dividends.
Outlook 
We will continue to manage our portfolio to optimise 
capital efficiencies by balancing licence equity and 
cost exposure with risked upside potential.  In addition, 
we aim to make further advances in building our 
production portfolio through a variety of means in order 
to progressively and efficiently self-fund our future 
exploration programme. 
Following the great successes of 2010, Faroe Petroleum 
continues to drive forward its dynamic drilling 
programme with seven expected and committed 2011 
wells each carefully selected for their potential to add 
significant near term value.  From our strong financial 
position, we plan to mature many new prospects 
for future drilling, and to win attractive new licences 
through which we will generate future prospects.  
Graham Stewart 
Chief Executive
