 We are well positioned  
to deliver with expert 
technical teams and a 
highly experienced board 
and management team.
World class  
technical capabilities
Faroe’ s strong reputation and technical excellence  
have allowed us to pursue and deliver growth.
Financial discipline
Through prudent portfolio and financial 
management, the Company has at all times 
ensured that it has the necessary funding in place 
to participate with high stakes in a multi-well 
exploration programme.
Overview
10 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Experienced Board 
and strong management
Faroe Petroelum has an outstanding team of 
professionals who are deeply committed to  
creating value and achieving material success for  
our shareholders. We intend to take full advantage  
of our capabilities and strong growth platform  
going forward and are confident of delivering 
outstanding success in the years ahead.
Overview
Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 Faroe has maintained a consistent strategy 
since inception, focused on creating exceptional 
shareholder value from portfolio exploration. 
Through prudent portfolio and financial 
management, the Company has at all times 
ensured that it has the necessary funding in place 
to participate with material stakes in a multi-
well exploration programme on a consistent and 
sustainable basis. Indeed, for the past three years 
all of the Company’s investments have been 
funded from cash, operational cash flow and 
Norwegian tax rebates. This largely self-funding 
approach to our business model is one of Faroe’s 
great strengths particularly in these times of equity 
capital markets uncertainty. 
Faroe Petroleum has, through its highly successful 
application process, increased its number of licences 
to approximately 60. The Group has steadily grown 
to become one of the most successful applicants 
in the UK, Norway and recently Iceland. During 
the last year we secured a total of 16 new licences, 
our greatest award success to date. It is notable  
that many of the new licences have been granted 
with Faroe as operator, and in partnership with  
some of the world’s leading industry players, such 
as E.ON, Statoil and Total, as well as the Norwegian 
State-owned oil company Petoro AS. 
Dear shareholder,
The year delivered another busy period for the 
business, beginning and ending on a high, first  
with the Butch discovery and finally with the 
Rodriguez discovery, both of which are significant 
and with substantial upside. The Group had  
hoped for a repeat of the high exploration hit 
rates we achieved in 2010 and 2011, but we had 
a number of disappointing wells in 2012. It is 
important to acknowledge however, that such is 
the uncertain nature of exploration. The ongoing 
programme will test a variety of exploration plays, 
with a spread of risk and reward; this should be 
assessed on a portfolio basis, and with one of the 
largest in the UK and Norway, we remain confident 
with an overall discovery rate well ahead of the 
industry average. 
“ The year delivered another 
busy period for the business, 
beginning and ending on  
a high, first with the Butch 
discovery and finally with the 
Rodriguez discovery, both of 
which are significant and with 
substantial upside.”
Chairman’s letter
Overview
12 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 As Faroe grows in size, so must the materiality  
of our exploration drilling programme. In order 
to deliver a growing high impact exploration 
programme into the future, we have commenced 
a process of assessing the potential for participation 
in new positions beyond our current geographic 
footprint, where we may expect to drill attractive 
frontier exploration wells in the medium term.  
Such expansion, if executed, would be designed  
to capitalise on our technical strengths, experience 
and competitive edge and would target play types 
similar to our existing assets.
In exploration we had an exciting programme in 
2012 with a total of seven wells drilled, two of which 
were significant successes, Butch and Rodriguez 
(completed post year-end), both in Norway. T echnical 
discoveries were also made on T -Rex and Cooper. 
Cooper is the subject of continuing work to assess 
the merits of a second well on the block. Although  
it did not find hydrocarbons, Clapton, the Group’ s 
first Norwegian well as operator, was drilled 
successfully, on budget and safely – an important 
achievement for the Company. 
During 2012 Faroe matured its asset base, 
building on the low cost exclusive acquisitions 
and swaps from 2011 and earlier. By making 
significant investments in its existing production 
and development assets the Company has further 
enhanced its high quality non-operated UK and 
Norwegian oil and gas production portfolio. 
These investments included the fast-track sub-sea 
development of Hyme and infill wells on Njord, 
Brage and Ringhorne East. Faroe now has a strong 
cash position, greatly enhanced cash flows from 
its production, boosted by currently high and stable 
oil prices, significantly increased committed debt 
facilities and access to Norway’s unique and highly 
attractive exploration tax rebate system. Faroe 
can therefore confidently continue its programme 
of high impact exploration and in-fill wells while 
pursuing its aggressive growth plans.
Iain Lanaghan is leaving the Board in 2013  
after four years as Group Finance Director. He 
has overseen a significant strengthening of the 
Company’s cash flow and balance sheet, including 
the formation of a strong international bank 
group to provide US$425 million of committed 
bank facilities. I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank Iain for all his diligent and hard work  
in guiding the Company into its position of financial 
strength and sustainability and wish Iain all the 
best for his future. The search for a replacement 
is well advanced and an announcement of the 
new appointee will be made in the near future.
Faroe’s strong reputation and technical excellence 
has allowed us to pursue and deliver growth in  
some of the most sought after oil and gas plays 
in the world. In addition we have built a highly 
profitable production portfolio to generate  
the cash flow we need to fund our wells. This  
has been achieved through focus, professionalism 
and a commitment to long term partnerships 
with some of the leading companies and 
Governments in the world of oil and gas. 
Faroe Petroleum has a truly outstanding team 
of professionals who are deeply committed to 
creating value and achieving material success for  
our shareholders. We intend to take full advantage 
of our capabilities and strong growth platform  
going forward and are confident of delivering 
outstanding success in the years ahead.
John Bentley
Chairman
Faroe Petroleum plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13
Overview I am pleased to announce the audited results  
for the year ended 31 December 2012, a year 
of significant progress. The year saw a period 
of growth and consolidation across the portfolio 
of exploration, appraisal and production. Faroe’s 
focused portfolio exploration strategy, now largely 
self-funded, continues to serve us well and we now 
occupy a very strong position from which to grow.
Strategy – clear and focused 
Pursuing a portfolio exploration business model 
mitigates exploration risk and increases the 
probability of success by drilling a significant  
number of high impact wells every year. We have 
built solid foundations in the three main elements  
of our business model; exploration (application, 
licence awards, prospect maturation, discovery); 
monetisation (appraisal, sale, swap/trade into 
production); and financing (cash reserves, cash  
flow, debt facilities and tax efficiency). Each  
of these areas commands substantial attention 
and resource for the business cycle to perform 
optimally. As demonstrated over the years,  
we focus on monetising our discoveries in the  
near term wherever we can in order to realise  
value, generate cash flow, and maintain a good 
portfolio balance, without excessive financial 
exposure to a single asset. 
Over the years we have built a balanced, world class 
portfolio of assets in the Atlantic margin, the North 
Sea and Norway, where we have secured material 
interests in approximately 60 licences. Our core areas 
are among the most sought after exploration plays 
in the world, and, in addition to the North Sea  
and Norwegian Sea, include areas that are under-
explored (the Barents Sea and the Atlantic margin) 
and un-explored (Iceland). 
The Company’s exploration portfolio is directed 
towards high impact wells in both near-field (close  
to existing infrastructure) and frontier positions.  
The vast majority of our licences have been won 
through licence rounds, having been successful year 
after year in competitive licensing rounds in the UK, 
Norway, Faroe Islands and now Iceland. 
“ Our model has worked very  
well, our entire 2012 drilling 
programme (exploration, 
appraisal and development) 
was funded from a combination 
of existing and operational cash  
flow and Norwegian tax rebates.”
CEO’s review
Review of the year
14 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 “ 2013 kicked off with a significant discovery at Rodriguez, 
and our portfolio of exploration licences ensures  
Faroe has an exciting and material drilling programme 
ahead with five firm high impact exploration and  
appraisal wells planned; including the Darwin prospect  
in the Barents Sea and a continuing programme of 
production in-fill wells. We look forward to an exciting 
period ahead.”
A throughput of new prospects is continuously 
worked up and matured to deliver a sustainable  
and active programme of high impact wells across  
a multitude of exciting and diverse exploration plays. 
In this way we ensure our model is sustainable, 
with the aim of drilling four or more high impact 
wells every year, and delivering high value growth 
for shareholders. 
We have chosen to build a strong production 
portfolio to generate tax efficient cash flow to  
fund our exploration and appraisal programme, 
which is an enviable position, setting us apart  
from a number of E&P companies. This model has 
worked very well for us such that our entire 2012 
drilling programme, encompassing exploration, 
appraisal and development wells was funded from  
a combination of existing cash, operational cash 
flow and Norwegian tax rebates. 
Faroe Petroleum has been particularly active on the 
Norwegian Continental Shelf, recognised in recent 
years as one of the most important and successful 
exploration provinces in the world. In the past  
two years giant new oil field discoveries were made, 
most notably Skrugard and Havis, representing  
a breakthrough for exploration in the Barents Sea, 
and Avaldsnes and Aldous (now known as Johan 
Sverdrup) on the Utsira High in the Norwegian North 
Sea. Combining Norway’s under-explored oil and gas 
potential with its unique tax refund system, designed 
to encourage exploration by shielding explorers  
from 78% of exploration costs, Faroe is well placed 
to achieve great success there. This tax regime allows 
us to hold much larger equity positions in wells than 
would be possible in the UK or elsewhere.
At the same time we have continued to build one  
of the largest exploration acreage positions among 
UK independents in the West of Shetland area, 
where we have several material large frontier 
well opportunities, including the Grouse and 
Aileen prospects. 
In Iceland, we have chosen to build a position in the 
northerly waters to the south of Norwegian owned 
Jan Mayen Island. The main attraction is the very 
large prospect sizes there, but also the expectation 
that, like Greenland and the Barents Sea, this area 
will attract the attention of the major oil companies 
seeking high impact exploration opportunities in 
frontier virgin basins.
See p19 for  
our business  
model.
Faroe Petroleum plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15
Review of the year Exploration performance – growing activity
The year was a particularly active year of exploration 
drilling for us with Butch, T -Rex, Kalvklumpen, 
Cooper, Clapton and Rodriguez being drilled in 
Norway, and North Uist being drilled in UK, West  
of Shetland, and Spaniards in UK Central North Sea. 
Butch delivered a very exciting new discovery with 
light oil in excellent quality reservoir sands. It also 
delivered a new play with significant appraisal and 
exploration follow up potential, and further wells 
scheduled for H2 2013 and H1 2014, with the 
intention of proving up more resource ahead of  
a development decision. The T -Rex well in Norway’s 
Halten Terrace was Faroe’s first well targeting  
a new play type in Cretaceous reservoirs. The  
well confirmed the presence of oil but in a thinner 
than expected reservoir interval. We have since  
the year-end announced success in the Cretaceous 
on the Rodriguez well and this may represent  
a significant breakthrough for this new play type. 
While the Kalvklumpen well in the North Sea 
encountered excellent reservoirs, no hydrocarbons 
were encountered. However, an extensive data 
gathering programme was undertaken, and despite 
this initial disappointment, the data indicate good 
follow up potential in this and adjacent licences. 
Clapton was Faroe’s first well as operator in  
Norway, and the Company demonstrated its ability 
to operate both safely and successfully, delivering  
a well without serious incident, on schedule and  
on budget. 
The Cooper well in the Norwegian Sea encountered 
hydrocarbons but none were flowed to surface in 
the subsequent drill stem test. Despite this, further 
technical work is being carried out on the Cooper 
well results with a view to potentially drilling 
a further well on the licence in a better location. 
Operations on the North Uist well in the West of 
Shetlands basin are finally being brought to a close 
and an announcement of the results is expected 
in the near future.
Faroe’s drilling programme has achieved a high 
success rate and many significant discoveries.  
This performance has not only served to validate  
the corporate strategy but has also enabled 
successful execution of several asset deals where 
discoveries have been exchanged for cash or 
material, long-life production assets. The ability  
to monetise the exploration portfolio is key to the 
Company’s business model and, with multiple 
high-impact prospects planned to be drilled over  
the months and years ahead, we would fully expect 
to see further value-accretive deals completed in  
due course. 
 
Licence applications – high success rate
As a fundamental feature of our business model,  
the addition of new licences through licence  
rounds in 2012 and the start of 2013 exceeded 
expectations. The Company was awarded a total  
of 16 new licences: seven in the UK 27th Round 
(three of which are operated); a further eight 
new licences in the 2012 Norwegian Awards in 
Predefined Areas (“APA”) Licence Round (three 
of which are operated); and a frontier licence in 
Iceland (as operator), each with high equity levels. 
The majority of these were generated by our own 
in-house team and the high number of awards  
in very competitive rounds further demonstrates  
the level of confidence held in the Company by  
the respective host authorities. 
Production portfolio – balanced with  
good upside
In 2011 Faroe completed the landmark swap 
transaction with Petoro (Norwegian State oil  
and gas company) of its 30% share in the Maria  
oil field discovery in Norway for Petoro’s interests 
primarily in three high quality producing oil and gas 
fields, Brage, Njord and Ringhorne East. Faroe’s 
entire portfolio of producing assets (which includes 
the UK fields Blane and Schooner, generated 
average production in 2012 of around 6,900 boepd, 
with around 68% oil and 32% gas and condensate. 
This significant increase in average production from 
2,500 boepd in 2011 to 6,900 boepd in 2012  
gives the Group far greater cash flow than ever 
before. This low cost production (opex per boe was 
US$34 in 2012 compared to a realised average oil 
price of US$113 per barrel, and an overall average 
realised price per boe of US$95) benefits significantly 
from carried forward tax losses in the UK and capital 
allowances in Norway.
Review of the year
16 Faroe Petroleum plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
