 FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
9
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
2014 was a pivotal year for the Group with the successful Admission in June 
providing a stable ownership base for the Group to deliver on our ambitious 
growth plans.
2014 saw the Group hit a number of important milestones, with over 1,500 
Mounties placed on site at the end of the year, the successful openings of our 
Toronto and Glasgow operations, and the full operational benefits of our flagship 
London headquarters coming through following our move to the significantly 
larger premises in late 2013. From a financial perspective we delivered revenues 
up by 17% to £123.3 million and an operating profit before exceptional items of 
£24.9 million, an increase of 10% on 2013. We ended the year with no borrowings 
and net cash balances of £12.3 million.
UK and Ireland
The Group’s UK and Ireland operations performed exceptionally in 2014, passing the target of 1,000 Mounties on site in 
December and finished the year with a further 101 Mounties undergoing training in our academy. The UK is the test bed 
for new initiatives and service areas for the Group. The newest service area is Data and Operational Analysis, which has 
grown to over 130 Mounties on site and will be replicated in other FDM locations.
In January 2014 we launched our Ex-Forces Programme in the UK, to replicate for ex-Forces personnel the training and 
career opportunities that we have traditionally provided for graduates. We recruited Colonel (Retd.) Stewart Sharman 
MBE to head this initiative and to consider the prospective UK market for well-trained ex-Forces personnel. It is pleasing 
to report that our Ex-Forces Programme exceeded our expectations in 2014; with more than 50 people with a Forces 
background on placement as Mounties at 31 December 2014. There is not a “typical” member of ex-Forces personnel 
recruited by the Group. These men and women may have been in any of the Armed Services, in front-line or supporting 
roles and have served any number of years in the Forces. What typifies them is that they are capable, motivated and keen 
to start a new career working for FDM.
We added notably to our client base throughout 2014 across many sectors. Our growth outside of our core financial 
services operations was encouraging and we now operate across a number of Government and local authority 
departments, more widely in manufacturing, energy and transport, and have Mounties deployed in a number of  
charitable organisations.
2014 saw the UK operation source, train and place its first Irish Mounties with customers in Dublin and Cork, whilst also 
placing some with UK customers. We see Ireland as an important source of talent and customer opportunity in the future.
North America
Growth in the USA during the year, while strong, was initially slower than we had anticipated due to delays in customer 
driven programmes on a small number of key accounts. This delay has now been resolved and I am confident that the 
USA, which had 272 Mounties on site at the beginning of week 52 2014, is well placed for further growth 2015.
Our Canadian office was opened in Toronto in January 2014 and has exceeded our expectations with 69 Mounties on 
site at the beginning of week 52 2014 and a further 20 in training in the academy at the year end. So far we have secured 
new customers for the Group from Toronto and Montreal and have successfully placed Mounties in other regions for a 
number of these customers. Effective from 1 January 2015 we have combined the operational management of our New 
York and Toronto offices into a single function.
Chief Executive’s Review FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
2015 has started
with all parts 
of the Group 
performing well  FDM Group (Holdings) plc (formerly Astra Topco Limited)
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
11
EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding UK and Ireland)
Our German operation has benefited from the appointment of a new leader in the fourth quarter of 2013. 2014 
operations saw a record number of Mounties joining the Frankfurt academy and on site with our German customers. In 
Switzerland the decline in Mountie headcount at our two major customers experienced during 2013 has been reversed. 
The German and Swiss operations have benefited from a refocusing of operations away from the contractor market to 
expanding the Mountie programme; this has increased the number of Mounties on site, with 117 Mounties placed on 
site across EMEA at the start of week 52 2014, although total revenue and operating profit in the region have decreased 
during this transition. It is our intention to increase the footprint of our Frankfurt operation and broaden the training and 
service areas that we offer.
APAC (Asia Pacific)
Our APAC operation performed robustly in 2014, with 63 Mounties on site at week 52 (2013: 31) and a strong pipeline of 
Mounties in training and new customer wins. As we operate through a sales office rather than an academy in this region it 
remains more difficult to balance supply and demand. Mounties are recruited as they complete their university education 
and FDM training in other operating regions. However, as we have now started to achieve critical mass in APAC, we are 
evaluating the feasibility of opening an academy in Singapore to assist in the recruitment and training of graduates. 
Initiatives
The FDM Women in IT initiative is going from strength to strength, with 25% of the Group’s workforce now comprising 
females, which is higher than many other companies in the technology sector. Championing diversity in the workplace 
beyond gender is also a key focus for us. 
Strategy
FDM’s strategy is to deliver sustainable growth and advancement on a consistent basis. FDM’s strategy requires that all 
activities and investments are customer led, produce the required level of profit and cash returns and deliver sustained 
and measurable improvements for all stakeholders including customers, staff and shareholders, and further FDM’s 
objectives of offering career starts to talented people.
Summary and outlook
Following a strong performance in 2014 we continue to focus on widening the Group’s international footprint and on 
developing new service areas and sectors to provide a robust base from which to drive future growth. We have identified 
new office space in Leeds, a replacement and upsizing of our closing Manchester office, which will be fully operational 
during the second half of 2015. We also have under consideration other potential sites outside the UK that meet  
our requirements. 
The addition of the UK Ex-Forces Programme in January 2014 has delivered much for the Group and its clients; we will 
continue to fund and nurture such investments to spread the reach and attraction of FDM. 2015 has started with all parts 
of the Group performing well. While it is early in the new financial year, our expectations are underpinned by continuing 
strong customer demand and good levels of applications for our Mountie programme, driven by a healthy marketplace 
and our growing reputation.
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2015
Chief Executive’s Review Strategic Report
