 A transformational
year
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
4  Fenner PLC
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies service a wide range of
industries worldwide including mobile hydraulics, industrial
processing, materials handling, well servicing, forestry, aircraft fuel
systems, oil and gas, earthmoving and mining. 2005 saw a transformation in the Group with the acquisition of
Wellington Holdings plc in May. As a result we have now increased
the high-margin Precision Polymer’s turnover to a third of the Group’s.
We believe this also improves our profit and cash generating ability
and provides a further platform for growth.
Since the acquisition, the Wellington business, now renamed
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies, has performed above our
initial expectations and has already started to deliver the synergies
envisaged.
During the year we saw many of our markets strengthen as the combination of Chinese
demand and surging energy prices benefited many of our operations, both directly and 
indirectly. These developments have been particularly favourable to our Asia Pacific 
businesses, encouraging us to expand further our operations in China with three additional
new major projects in progress, which are detailed below.
ASIA PACIFIC
Our Chinese conveyor belting operation continued to gain momentum with strong sales
growth. As China’s burgeoning economy surged ahead on the strength of its exports and
insatiable demand for energy, coal producers
endeavoured to match the requirements. The
ensuing drive for coal productivity
improvements has proved beneficial for our
heavy duty products, as existing and new
customers realise the value of utilising higher
performance belting. This upward trend has
supported our capital investment to date with
further plant expansion planned to service our broadening customer base in this
increasingly important territory for the Group.
The hose operation in Shanghai received additional investment during the year to
accommodate output levels which are increasing as new business is gained. Slow but
steady progress is being made towards tighter truck emissions
legislation that requires changes to be made to original equipment
manufacturers’ designs, which in turn increases demand for our
products. These positive developments underpin our capital expenditure
programme for the commissioning of a dedicated world-class
manufacturing hose facility capable of meeting market demand.
The acquisition of Wellington Holdings plc brought numerous new
and exciting opportunities to the Group. These included the identification of gaps in their
geographical coverage in locations where we have existing knowledge and expertise. To
exploit these distinctive competencies, plans are underway for further penetration of seals’
markets in China with the construction of a new plant.
Fenner PLC  5
Mark Abrahams
Chief Executive Officer
“...dedicated
world-class
manufacturing
hose facility...”
Above: Manufactured at the Fenner Shanghai facility, this Fenaplast conveyor belt is in operation underground
at the Shenhua Yujialiang mine in Inner Mongolia. Currently, over 100km of Fenner Chinese-manufactured
belting is running underground and constantly setting new records of service life and coal output. Production of computer peripherals has progressively migrated to South East Asia in recent
years, and the overwhelming majority of our mini-pitched timing belts are shipped into the
region. Accordingly, our presence has been strengthened in South East Asia to support
existing office equipment accounts and to identify and develop new business opportunities.
Australia recorded a solid return from both the heavyweight conveyor belting and 
service operations. Strong coal market
conditions, enhanced by lower Chinese
coal exports in order to serve their
domestic demand, facilitated a year-on-
year improvement in this sector. The
performance was particularly
encouraging in our network of national
service operations where the focus is
on the provision of solutions tailored to
meet our customers’ existing and future
requirements. This network was further
strengthened during the year through the acquisition of L&K Conveyor Services which has
enhanced our presence in Western Australia and provides a strong foundation for further
penetration of this territory.
Our Indian conveyor belting operation enjoyed a successful first full year as a wholly
owned subsidiary, following the prior year’s restructuring of the Group’s interest.
NORTH AMERICA
Our conveyor belting operations experienced a continuation of the market and productivity
improvements from the latter part of the previous year although rising oil prices caused
upward pressure on input costs. Sales to the mining sector were particularly strong as
reinvestment programmes commenced, underpinned by the buoyant global demand for
energy which has held coal prices at near record levels. Sales to industrial markets
improved through a combination of the recovery in the economic conditions and the
increasing value of our organisational support structure. A dedication to solving all
conveying challenges, with the use of the latest technology,
has uniquely positioned the business to develop key
partnerships with our customers.
Precision polymer operations encountered more
volatile demand patterns as US markets faced rising oil prices and consequent raw material
price inflation. Despite these effects, the industrial products group successfully continued to
deploy their strategy of product line expansion and channel exploitation. The development
programme included the launch of two new products in the year. The T-Max range of belt
and chain tensioners was expanded through the launch of the innovative, light-duty RT-3000
rotary tensioner. A new, patented variant of PowerTwist link belt has been developed
specifically to meet the market demand for roller conveyor systems to carry higher loads,
faster and more quietly.
“...key partnerships 
with our customers...”
6  Fenner PLC
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Above: BHP Billiton iron ore blending and ship loading facility at Port Hedland, Western Australia, where
Apex Fenner Conveyor Services are contracted for condition monitoring and cleaning solutions for their
entire conveyor system. The contract was won in 2005, following the L & K Conveyor Services acquisition,
at a value A$6.8m The markets have responded favourably to both
of these carefully targeted product launches.
These, together with our marketing alliances, have
contributed to incremental sales growth. Market
demand in the office equipment segment was
slow in the first few months of the year, but
recovered considerably in the second half. Our
continuous improvement programme increased
production yields, but nevertheless, capacity was
flexed to meet customer demand for mini-pitch
timing belts. Planning is now well advanced for a
building extension to accommodate an increase in capacity with completion scheduled for
2006.
The newly-acquired seals operations benefited from buoyant energy markets. To
enhance growth further new applications, including the semi conductor processing industry,
were developed. The design of new sealing solutions, such as the patented SigmaSeal is
encouraging. This seal, which is generating interest in new markets, has unique
self-energising and low friction properties suitable to the control valve industry.
EUROPE
The environment for our UK based heavyweight conveyor belting operation became 
increasingly difficult during the year with declining demand from both the UK and German
coal industries. Against this, the demand from our worldwide potash customers remained
robust and further penetration of Eastern European, Ukrainian and Russian coal markets was
achieved. Whilst raw material prices increased significantly during the year, sales pricing
action coupled with improved purchasing enabled margins to be maintained. 
Weak economic conditions prevailed in most of our major European industrial markets,
which together with the threat from the competition
over an otherwise flat market, led to a difficult year for
our Dutch operation. As a consequence, action to
address the cost base was implemented in the
second half through a reduction in the workforce
whilst overall productivity improvements were
achieved through additional investment in new plant
and systems.
James Dawson at Lincoln built upon the solid
foundations established in recent years to record a
good performance overall. Demand from the speciality vehicle and business machine
markets was generally strong allowing the benefits from recent capital investment
programmes to be realised. Further recognition of the accomplishments of this operation
was gained in the year with the Queen’s Award for Enterprise in International Trade.
Fenner PLC  7
Top: Fenner Drives recently launched a new range of taper edge bands specially developed to meet the
requirements of the wallboard industry. These taper edge bands last up to 12 times longer than
conventional PVC bands, reduce downtime and are capable of operation at temperatures up to 64°C.
Bottom: James Dawson are supplying charge air hoses on Volvo Truck vehicles. This business emphasises
the Global position James Dawson has within the silicone hose supplier base. 8  Fenner PLC
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
1 Artist’s impression of the
Precision Polymers facility to be
built in the new Industrial Park in
Jiading, Shanghai. The new
facility will be shared equally by
Fenner Advanced Sealing
Technologies and James Dawson.
2 One of the new sealing
developments is the SigmaSeal
which has unique self-energising
and low friction properties suitable
for the control valve industry.
3 At the solid-woven conveyor
belting Centre of Technical
Excellence based in Hull, this
air-bearing PVC rheometer
provides an understanding of the
complex viscosity, flow and fusion
changes that take place during heat processing of a belt.
4 The conveyor belting facility in Atlanta has installed two new looms capable of weaving up to 2.2m widths. The looms operate at over
twice the speed of the previous looms and a further 10 are scheduled for commissioning by the end of the current year.
5 James Dawson Managing Director Rodney Barbour receiving the Queen’s Award for Enterprise from Mrs Bridget Carcroft-Eley, Her
Majesty’s Lord-Lieutenant of Lincolnshire at the ceremony held at the Lincoln facility.
6 A consignment of solid-woven Fenaplast conveyor belting destined for underground use being loaded at the new Indian facility.
1 2
3
4
5
6 The Poynton (Cheshire) hose facility, which was acquired in February 2004, continued to
perform well. The projected market synergy between Poynton’s EPDM hose and Lincoln’s 
silicone hose products is now beginning to be realised and is expected to lead to continued
steady growth of sales of Poynton products.
Fenner Drives Europe, formerly BTL in Leeds, experienced a continuing reduction in
demand from traditional markets, reflecting the general decline in UK manufacturing.
However, this decline was more than offset as programmes of innovative marketing, product
line expansion and increased activity in Europe took effect.
At the end of the year, the UK operations of both James Dawson and Fenner Drives
were restructured. James Dawson now operates exclusively in the world markets for
commercial and speciality vehicles, focusing upon capitalising on recent investments in the
specialist hose business. The industrial rubber and business machine products of James
Dawson have been brought under the responsibility of Fenner Drives Europe.
Sales from our European seals operations exceeded expectations in the period since 
acquisition with strong demand from longwall mining
equipment and the oil and gas industry. As we enter the new
year, the planned relocation of the UK operation to a new 
facility is progressing satisfactorily. The factory and offices
which are currently under construction at Hampton will
replace the existing network of 1920’s buildings. The benefits of the move will follow the
completion which is scheduled for the second half of 2006.
AFRICA
An increase in demand for energy in South Africa caused a heightened activity in the
region’s coal mining industry and the
commissioning of previously mothballed power
generation plants. This environment enabled the
achievement of a further successful year by our
conveyor belting operation, despite the keen
competition within the local market.
The Group’s other South African operation,
KSB, improved as the year progressed 
following softer volumes into agricultural markets
in the early months and higher contract volumes
in the second half-year.
Significant progress has been made during the last year with an increasingly encouraging
trend in performance. As we enter the new financial year we do so with confidence that most
of our businesses are seeing healthy market conditions with opportunities for growth.
Mark Abrahams Chief Executive Officer
Fenner PLC  9
“...seals operations
exceeded
expectations...”
Above: Fenner South Africa’s in-house splicing crew out in the field
splicing a solid-woven, high abrasion resistant conveyor belt on a
key installation feeding coal to Lethabo, one of South Africa’s
national power stations.
