 INTRODUCTION
The Business Review on pages 4 to 14
provides information on the corporate
objectives of the Fenner Group and its
businesses, together with a review of our
progress in 2007 and an assessment of the
key risks and uncertainties we face.
Fenner is a world leader in reinforced
polymer technology.  We will maintain or
achieve leading positions in all our niche
markets by continuing to concentrate on,
and invest in, understanding our customers’
needs and delivering superior value added
products to satisfy those needs. The
commitment and expertise of our workforce
in both established and emerging markets
provides a solid platform for profit and
growth.  
The Conveyor Belting (“CB”) Division
continues to be a world leader in the global
conveyor belting market with products
including lightweight and heavyweight
conveyor belting for the mining, power
generation and industrial markets.
The Advanced Engineered Products (“AEP”)
Division is involved in precision motion
control products for the paper handling and
mechanical equipment markets, silicon and
EPDM hose production for non-automotive
applications and the specialist sealing
business, which manufactures seals
products for the mining, hydraulics, oil and
gas, electronics, pumps, valves,
compressors, and aerospace industries. As
with CB, AEP demonstrates its market
leadership through its customer
responsiveness, product range, quality and
the whole-life value of the product to the
customer.  
The Group takes pride in being a
manufacturer of world class products that
are known for quality and reliability and
which provide value added solutions to our
customers. From 3mm wide inkjet printer
belts to 1500mm wide High-Vis conveyor
belt for carrying potash, our reputation is
key to the Group’s success and has been
built up over many years of customer
focused trading. Measuring our
performance against customer requirements
and their satisfaction, including appropriate
“on time in full” measurement and customer
surveys, is a key task throughout the Group.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
Strategic reviews are held periodically and
are embedded into the Group’s corporate
processes, with the Board and Executive
management team devoting a proportion of
each of their meetings to discuss strategic
issues. CB and AEP have separate strategic
objectives, with common goals of continued
investment and development in emerging
markets, as well as expanding share where
possible in established markets. The
possibility of further expansion into other
emerging markets is subject to regular
review.
Fenner continues to grow its reputation as a
specialist polymer engineering company,
with global operations offering products
focused on distinct markets and managed
through two operating divisions. The Group’s
head office promotes proactive local
autonomy with well defined, timely reporting.
Fenner has over 3,500 employees based in
18 countries and where possible we recruit
and develop indigenous management. A list
of principal subsidiaries can be found in
Note 35 to the consolidated financial
statements.
Acquisition opportunities are actively sought
and evaluated. The capacity and desire to
grow by acquisition is tempered by
availability and value of appropriate targets.
During the year, there was major organic
investment across our CB and AEP
“The Fenner businesses are well invested and positioned in geographic locations
where markets offer good growth prospects.” 
Mark Abrahams - Chief Executive Officer
Maintaining the
momentum
Business Review
Chief Executive Of ficer ’s Review
4 Fenner PLC
