 Recor d operating
pr ofit for the
Gr oup
Chair man’s Statement
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Group revenue for the year amounted to
£380.8m (2006 £379.0m). The growth would
have been £21.0m higher at last year’s
currency rates. Increased revenue in the
Advanced Engineered Products Division
reflected both acquisitive and organic
growth, particularly in our seals businesses.
The Conveyor Belting Division benefited from
a continued expansion in the Southern
Hemisphere. After a slower first half because
of mild winter weather conditions, order
levels for the North American business
normalised in the second half of the year,
following the earlier temporary pause in
demand for energy.
Operating profit before amortisation of
intangible assets acquired and exceptional
items increased to £39.0m (2006 £34.1m)
after absorbing the effect of £2.7m of
adverse currency movements. The
underlying growth of 24% has been
facilitated by continuous improvement and
development of our integrated service and
product offering.
Exceptional items of £0.2m (2006 £nil)
comprised a charge of £2.7m and a gain of
£2.5m. The charge of £2.7m related to the
reorganisation associated with the expansion
of the conveyor belting operations in North
America and the integration of EGC, which
was acquired in October 2006, into the seals
business in Houston, Texas. The gain of
£2.5m related to the profit generated from
the Group’s disposal during the year of its 
non-core interest in KSB Pumps in South
Africa.
Operating profit increased to £38.2m (2006
£33.7m). Total net finance costs incurred
were £4.6m (2006 £4.3m) with a resultant
profit before taxation of £33.6m (2006 £29.3m).
The headline and underlying taxation rates
were 29% and 30% respectively. Adjusted
earnings per share before amortisation of
intangible assets acquired and exceptional
items was 15.1p per share (2006 13.1p).
Basic earnings per share amounted to 15.0p
per share (2006 13.0p).
The Group’s ability to generate cash is
evident from the net cash inflow from
operating activities of £38.8m (2006 £26.3m)
emanating from both profit and working
capital management. This has funded the
Group’s major expansion plans in the period
as capital expenditure incurred rose to
£32.0m (2006 £18.8m). The acquisition of
EGC cost £8.8m and the divestment of KSB
Pumps generated £5.2m. Net debt at the
end of the year was £36.3m (2006 £33.1m).
This benefited from borrowings being
denominated in weaker foreign currencies,
giving rise to a gain of £2.5m.
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 4.15p per share which gives a total
distribution for the year of 6.225p per share
(2006 6.0p), a 4% increase on 2006. This is
in line with our policy of paying a one-third
interim dividend and a two-thirds final
dividend.
I am pleased to report that the performance achieved in 2006/7 has met our
ambitious growth targets. The fundamentals of our core markets associated with
energy and power generation have remained strong. Against this backdrop, all of
our businesses have delivered robust returns which have culminated in a record
operating profit for the Group.
2 Fenner PLC OPERATIONS
The Advanced Engineered Products Division
had another strong year, particularly our
seals businesses, where high trading levels
continued to be enjoyed in the mining, oil
and gas and semi conductors sectors. These
businesses have gone from strength to
strength since their acquisition two years
ago. The integration of EGC has progressed
well and the initial results have exceeded
pre-acquisition expectations. The precision
polymers businesses saw healthy growth in
both hose and industrial markets, particularly
in North America. 
The Conveyor Belting Division achieved a
further year of growth as the strategic
development of our market strengths
progressed in accordance with our plans.
Demand for belting benefited from both the
buoyant mining conditions which prevailed
for much of the year and a strong industrial
sector. In Australia, the national coverage of
the service businesses broadened to
accommodate the needs of our widely
spread customer base. The business in
China continued to expand as the belting
requirement from the coal mining sector
grew, driven by this territory’s increasing
demand for energy. In North America, the
improved volumes in the second half
enabled a good full year performance with
operational efficiencies assisting margins.
Our substantial capital investment
programme commenced in earnest during
the period, the benefits of which will be
evident for years to come. Finally, results
from the European businesses have been
most encouraging as economic conditions
showed improvement and penetration of new
and emerging markets continued.
PEOPLE
Fenner employs over 3,500 people in its
geographically diverse operations around
the world. We are fortunate to have strong
teams of talented and dedicated people
throughout the Group. I recognise that the
achievements to date could not have
happened without their support and
therefore, on behalf of the Board, I would like
to extend my appreciation and gratitude.
OUTLOOK
In the first few weeks of 2007/8 trading has
commenced in line with our expectations.
Current order flow remains healthy and our
markets are generally buoyant. The effect of
economic uncertainty, particularly in the US,
has not been seen directly in our businesses,
although we are alert to the possibility of this
occurring. The medium and longer term
drivers remain strongly positive and, we
believe, endorse our customer led
investment strategy. As a consequence we
remain confident of continuing growth this
year.
Colin Cooke
Chairman
Fenner PLC   3
