 INTRODUCTION
This Business Review sets out the strategic
objectives of the Group and its businesses,
as well as a review of progress in 2008, the
outlook for 2009 and beyond and an
assessment of the key risks and
uncertainties. 
During the past year Fenner has
strengthened its position as a world leader
in reinforced polymer technology through
both acquisition and organic investment.
The aim of the Fenner businesses is to
deliver high quality, value added products
and services to our customers. Wherever
possible we operate in niche markets which
enable the operations to avoid the highly
competitive, low margin commodity end of
the markets in which we operate. This
common aim enables Fenner to deliver a
solid basis for long term growth, stability
and shareholder value. Fenner is proud to
be a world class global manufacturer
operating in key territories in established
and emerging markets.
The Fenner Group consists of two Divisions,
the Conveyor Belting (“CB”) Division and the
Advanced Engineered Products (“AEP”)
Division.  
The CB Division is a recognised world
leader in the global conveyor belting market,
concentrating on heavyweight ply, solid
woven and steel cord conveyor belting for
mining, power generation and industrial
applications. During the year, it has been
expanding its service offering through
organic growth and acquisitions to satisfy its
customers' requirements from belt order to
installation and maintenance. The
lightweight non-rubber conveyor belting
operation, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina, was sold to Forbo Seigling, Inc (a
major force in that market) and, although we
divested manufacturing capability, strong
strategic links remain.
The AEP Division is divided into five product
group based businesses which are
managed on a global basis. These
businesses are as follows:
• Fenner Precision, which is a leading
supplier of performance critical polymer
components to the office automation
industry;
• Fenner Drives, which designs,
manufactures and sells an extensive
range of bespoke solutions for mechanical
power transmission and motion transfer
applications;
• The supply of silicone and EPDM
speciality hoses for the diesel engine,
truck, bus and off-road equipment OEM
market, trading as James Dawson;
• Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies
("FAST") comprising hydraulic and
pneumatic seals for the global fluid power
industry, trading as Hallite and bespoke
sealing products for process applications
including oil and gas, electronics, pumps,
valves, compressors and aerospace
applications, trading as CDI/EGC; and
• Technical textiles, trading as Prodesco
and Secant Medical. 
Prodesco, Inc together with its subsidiary
Secant Medical, LLC, acquired in February
2008, not only brought a complementary
industrial textile business but also satisfied a
long term goal of entering into niche medical
applications which provide further exciting
opportunities for AEP.
Both CB and AEP provide high quality,
comprehensive, whole life value products for
their customers, and both have a strong
brand and reputation in their chosen
markets. These characteristics are
considered to be key to the success of the
Group over its long history. Customer
satisfaction is of importance to all business
units, who ensure they are meeting their
customer expectations which are specific to
each market. Performance measurements
“After a year of strategic investment the Group is strongly positioned to face the
challenges of economic circumstances.” 
Mark Abrahams - Chief Executive Officer
Robust and
r esilient
Business Review
Chief Executive Of ficer ’s Review
Fenner PLC   5 Business Review
Chief Executive Of ficer ’s Review continued
include customer surveys and “on time in
full” performance.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
It has been a very exciting year for the
Group with organic investment and
acquisition activity in both Divisions which
expand the product ranges, geographic
coverage, routes to market, service offering
and market shares. The investments and
acquisitions ensure Fenner continues to
grow its reputation as a specialist polymer
engineering company and help it maintain
profitability throughout the economic cycle.
The acquired Secant Medical business is
the ideal custom manufacturing partner for
the most demanding medical device
engineering challenges. Working with
partners, both large and small, its
experience with specialised biocompatible
medical textile structures is aimed to help
bring new biomedical device ideas to
market. Prodesco produces highly
specialised technical fabrics for
performance critical applications in
industrial, aerospace and chemical
equipment markets. The Prodesco and
Secant Medical businesses will remain
autonomous operations within the Group. 
The other acquisitions for AEP were B-LOC
and Winfield Industries. B-LOC, which has
been fully integrated into the Fenner Drives
business of AEP in Manheim, is a leading
supplier of multi-screw keyless bushings and
complements the existing Fenner Drives
range. It has opened up channels to market
for both the historical Fenner Drives and
B-LOC products. Winfield Industries is
recognised as a leading supplier of
performance critical rollers for digital imaging
applications and allows Fenner Precision to
gain access to the rapidly growing market for
digital printing presses. With a significant
market share in the mature inkjet market, this
acquisition enables Fenner Precision to offer
an unrivalled range of technical capability,
products and experience to the global office
automation market. 
The seals manufacturing operation in
Houston completed the major factory
expansion ahead of schedule. Not only did it
successfully integrate the EGC business into
the new facility on budget but also out-
performed the plan throughout the process.
The improved layout and investment in
equipment has seen efficiencies and margins
improve at the combined facility, which is now
state of the art, and provides the springboard
for further growth and market diversification
from this dynamic business with strong
advanced materials capabilities.
The FAST operations in China continue to do
well and additional manufacturing lines have
been relocated from the Hampton site to
China ahead of plan. The Hampton seals
operation was highly successful in securing
new and additional business which enabled
it to grow, notwithstanding the transfer of
business to China. Other strategic initiatives
progressed well during the year. These
included the geographical expansion of
markets serviced with sales, technical and
customer service teams recruited in China
and Brazil and strengthened service teams
across the globe. 
The CB operations in Australia have
received both major organic and acquisition
investment. A planned investment in a new
steel cord facility is now underway in Perth,
Western Australia. This facility is located to
service the fast growing iron ore sector of
the Australian economy which, together with
coal, are the main trading and export
sectors for Australia. There have also been
strategic acquisitions of service businesses
in Darwin and Whyalla which service the
Northern Territories and the multi-mineral ore
bodies in South Australia respectively. These
have added to the successful Fenner
Dunlop Conveyor Services business already
operating in Australia. Leading with a focus
on safety, the expertise and strength of the
service team and management continues
the strategy to maintain the broadest
national coverage in Australia and to ensure
that the operation is well placed to take
advantage of opportunities in the regions
with significant mining growth.
The success of the service model in
Australia is being leveraged in the Americas
with the acquisitions of King Energy
Services in Colorado, King Energy Services
in New Mexico, the Conveyor Services
Corporation group of companies and Solid
Systems Engineering. These businesses will
form the backbone of the Fenner Dunlop
Conveyor Services business for North
America. Work is underway to integrate
these businesses into the Group. Not only is
Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services the
largest belt servicing business focused on
the mining industry but the locations of our
branches also align with those of our
customers. The strength of the service
business will support the wider product
offering from the expanded Fenner Dunlop
Americas manufacturing operation. Further,
experience suggests the service business is
6 Fenner PLC counter cyclical to belt sales, helping to
ensure that the CB operation has some
protection from market cycles.
CB has also invested in a significant number
of manufacturing plants with the continuation
of the investment in the North American
plants in Port Clinton and Toledo together
with the construction of a purpose built,
bespoke weaving operation in Hart County,
Georgia. These new facilities will improve
flexibility and efficiencies in both production
and energy consumption and reduce waste.
As well as extending the product range,
capacity constraints of prior years,
particularly for steel cord belting, will also be
eased. Coupled with our new plant, the
service business acquisitions mean that
Fenner Dunlop Americas not only
manufactures the full range of products
required by our customers but also has
locations close by, offering comprehensive
service and support.
Investment in the South African operation
was also completed in the year with the
installation of a steel cord line to enable it to
supply both the domestic and export
markets. Following investment in the
previous year, China saw the introduction of
a range of Dunlop branded belts,
successfully targeted at broadening the
customer base. 
As a diversified Group, Fenner uses a wide
range of materials, from traditional cotton
yarns to the latest perfluoroelastomers. Not
only do we use significant volumes of some
materials, we also work closely with selected
suppliers to ensure that our customers
benefit from the latest technical
developments in materials and processes.
Most of these relationships are in the normal
course of business, ensuring quality,
continuity of supply and reasonable
commercial terms. Where appropriate, and
usually relating to technical developments,
relationships are formally documented.
CONVEYOR BELTING
Most of the CB operations experienced
positive trading conditions through the year
under review although all faced a variety of
challenges including the effects of volatile raw
material prices and availability, competitive
threats and availability of skilled labour.
Capacity constraints of prior years have been
addressed and, where new constraints have
arisen, are being addressed with the result
that the operations are well placed to defend
their position in the markets.
The global demand for bulk commodities
including iron ore, copper, potash and the
demand for power, in the form of coal,
helped to ensure that the global CB
operations had a strong year with increased
demand and improved return on sales,
particularly in Europe, Australia and China.
North American operations had strong order
books through the year but were impacted
somewhat by pricing constraints and raw
material price volatility. Price increases are
being implemented where possible and the
operations work closely with suppliers and
customers to help facilitate and build on the
strong relationships in the supply chain.
Volume constraints have driven
internationally traded coal prices to an all
time high, as shown in the McCloskey graph
below. Over the last three years coal prices
have remained comfortably over the
“trigger” value at which coal companies buy
belt. The volume of coal being mined
continues to increase as demand for energy
in China, India and South East Asia remains
strong, together with a desire in the US to be
independent from energy suppliers,
particularly for oil. Globally, coal resources
are located in less politically fragile markets.
Whilst prices have probably peaked, the
volume demand for coal remains bullish and
the long term outlook remains good.
With the additional steel cord capacity, other
minerals, particularly iron ore, become more
important to Fenner and, almost without
exception, volumes and prices have been
strong throughout the year.
ADVANCED ENGINEERED PRODUCTS
All operations within AEP aim to provide
high value added solutions to their
customers’ needs using advanced
polymeric materials, expertise in application
design, effective manufacturing design skills
and timely delivery.  
Fenner PLC   7
NW Europe - Steam Coal Marker
Monthly Average
