 Introduction
In another record year it is difficult to pick out
specific successes but the growing
acceptance of the Engineered Conveyor
Solutions concept by some key customers and
the growth of Fenner Advanced Sealing
Technologies within the Advanced Engineered
Products division, both by organic investment
and acquisition, stand out. The recognition of
the eminence of Secant Medical in the design
of medical textiles was reflected in its revenue
growth and also deserves a mention.
Throughout this report we have introduced the
updated vision and strategy for Fenner which
was developed by the Executive Committee,
with the support of the Board and the input of
senior management across the Group. This
builds on our success to date and
demonstrates how we will drive long-term
value for our customers, employees and
shareholders. 
Business model
The Fenner business model is to devolve
authority into the operating units, within an
appropriately controlled environment. These
operating units are close to our customers
and are responsible for delivering the
products and services to them. The operating
units are grouped into two divisions: the
Engineered Conveyor Solutions (“ECS”)
division and the Advanced Engineered
Products (“AEP”) division. These two divisions
enable us to develop expertise within each
market segment across our wide geographic
footprint. Our culture of continuous
improvement and investment ensures that
our products meet and exceed the demands
of customers.
ECS and AEP both provide premium quality,
comprehensive, market focused, whole life
value products and services. This has enabled
both divisions to build strong brands and
excellent reputations in their chosen markets.
These characteristics are considered to be the
key to the success of the Group.
Fenner has an experienced and stable
management team, backed by solid financial
performance and a robust balance sheet.
Accordingly, Fenner is able to continue to
invest organically and by acquisition to
maintain and develop its strong market
positions and strategic partnerships.
Market overview
The economic recovery continues, but it has
weakened. In advanced economies, growth is
now too low to make a substantial dent in
unemployment and in major emerging market
economies, growth rates that had been strong
have also slowed. The IMF growth forecasts
for 2013 have been revised from 2.0% down to
1.5% for advanced economies and from 6.0%
to 5.6% for emerging and developing
economies although they note that, “… trade
channels are surprisingly strong, with, for
example, lower exports accounting for most of
the decrease in growth in China.” (Source:
IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2012).
The demand for ECS goods and services is
primarily driven by the tonnage of minerals
extracted, handled and consumed. Mineral
extraction and consumption tonnages are in
turn driven by the internal growth of emerging
economies. Coal is our most important
market, followed by iron ore and copper ore.
Other minerals and aggregates are important
in some geographic markets. Energy coal
prices fell during the year despite production
volumes continuing to increase on a global
basis. The USA has seen reductions in
consumption which were predominantly due
to local factors, some of which, like the price
of natural gas, are considered short-term
effects. Iron ore and metallurgical coal prices
held up well until the final quarter of the
Fenner financial year allowing record export
levels to be declared by BHPBilliton and Rio
Tinto.             
Following our year end there was a market
correction in commodity prices which was
driven by uncertainty over the continued
growth in demand. Nevertheless, prices still
remain well above those during the global
financial crisis. The medium to long-term
projections for coal demand from the
International Energy Agency show continued
growth. 
There is no single driver of demand for the
AEP division. However, significant revenues
are derived from oil and gas, medical,
construction and the general industrial
markets of North America. The oil and gas
markets continue to perform well, not only
from steady demand and security of supply,
but also from the increasingly sophisticated
extraction methods, such as shale gas
“fracking”, which require our high
performance products. Despite regulatory
changes in the USA, the medical market looks
favourable while construction remains weak
and the North American industrial market
has, to date, held up well. 
Coal price, production and demand are
illustrated on page 16
STRONG DEMAND, COMBINED WITH THE BENEFITS
OF OUR INVESTMENTS, PRODUCED HIGHER
MARGINS AND RECORD EARNINGS.
STRONG GROWING
RESILIENT
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
7
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 8
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements
Outlook
As we have highlighted, in the latter part of
the year, ECS saw slower demand from the
US coal sector offset by stronger demand
elsewhere. Order rates from the US coal
sector bottomed in May and have improved
steadily since. While we do not expect to
benefit fully from the positive impact of this
trend until the second half, the divisional
order book is satisfactory overall. Commodity
prices have recently reduced which, while not
directly weakening activity for ECS, may lead
to some short-term pressure on margins.       
The AEP operations are trading satisfactorily,
albeit with some pockets of moderate
destocking. Recent acquisitions are expected
to support continuing growth. 
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
A detailed review of Corporate Responsibility
is set out on pages 50 to 56 
Those Key Performance Indicators which
are used to measure performance against
strategy are set out on pages 27 to 28
Details of the principal risks which could
potentially impact the progress of
strategy are set out on page 22
Strategic goals
Strong
Invest in human capital
Extend intellectual property
inventory
Maintain and improve business
infrastructure
Sustain a secure balance sheet
Growing
Maximise organic and acquired
growth
Increase focus on faster growing
emerging markets
Identify fast growing applications
Resilient
Performance-critical
Aftermarket focus
Balanced portfolio
Exposure to long-term growth
markets
Strategy
Our strategy is to increase market share and target new value added product areas to create a strong, growing and resilient company for the
coming decades. We will continue to concentrate on growing those businesses where we already demonstrate leadership through our skills in
applications, design, materials technology and dedication to customer service as well as by carefully planned acquisitions to create value for
all our stakeholders in a zero-harm environment.
Vision
To be respected as the leading global provider of local, engineered solutions for performance-critical applications.
Corporate Responsibility
Fenner acknowledges that its market leading position means it has social and environmental responsibilities that must be embedded
within the business decision-making process. These five elements continue to contribute to Fenner’s overall business success, bringing
with it an enhancement to reputation, profitability and shareholder return.
Health and safety Our people Business behaviours Environment Community
