 5
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
IN MY FIRST FULL YEAR AS CHAIRMAN OF FENNER, I AM DELIGHTED TO
REPORT ON THE PROGRESS MADE IN THE YEAR. BOTH DIVISIONS OF THE
GROUP HAVE PERFORMED WELL WHICH HAS RESULTED IN A RECORD
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
A SUCCESSFUL YEAR
Financial highlights
Revenue increased by 16% to £830.6m with
predominantly strong demand levels from the
energy and mineral extraction sectors.
Underlying operating profit reached a record
level for the Group, advancing by 30% to
£118.8m. Operating profit also increased by
30% to £107.6m.
Underlying earnings per share increased by
28% to 36.1p and basic earnings per share
increased by 23% to 30.3p.
Free cash flow generated amounted to
£63.0m. From this, we were able to fund
£34.3m for acquisitions and return £18.0m to
shareholders in dividends whilst still reducing
debt. Our closing net debt was £97.7m (2011:
£101.8m).
In recognition of the increased quality of the
Group’s earnings and our confidence in the
future, the Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend to 7.0p per share
which gives a total dividend for the year of
10.5p per share (2011: 8.0p), representing a
31% increase.
Overview
We have remained focused on our long-term
strategy and shorter-term goals and have
achieved significant progress in both areas.
In the Engineered Conveyor Solutions division,
we experienced strong trading conditions for
much of the year although construction
markets remained weak. Our southern
hemisphere and European operations
performed consistently well throughout the
year. In the latter months, we experienced
some slowing of order intake from the coal
sector in our US operation as a result of the
re-alignment of customer output with
consumption following the extremely mild
winter and uneconomical pricing of natural
gas albeit coal stockpiles are slowly returning
to more normal levels with a recovery in US
natural gas prices and increasing US coal
export activity. 
Our strategic initiatives have progressed well.
Following recent investments, global
manufacturing capabilities were leveraged to
meet customer demand patterns. In
December 2011, the acquisition of Allison
Custom Fabrication further strengthened our
position as the leading provider of engineered
conveyor solutions in North American
markets.
In the Advanced Engineered Products division,
growth was underpinned by strong demand
from the oil and gas sector and investment to
broaden our geographical coverage. The latter
includes initiatives to develop identified
growth markets, both organically and
acquisitively. In September 2011, the
acquisition of Transeals enabled greater
access to the Australian mining and oil and
gas aftermarket.
In September 2012, after the year end, three
bolt-on acquisitions were completed.
American Industrial Plastics complements
our existing capabilities and provides
specialist expertise in precision machining of
polymers. Norwegian Seals expands our
presence in oil and gas to the subsea sector.
Mandals, which produces lay-flat hoses,
provides high value added solutions to
customers’ needs in fluid handling markets.
In October 2012, we exchanged contracts to
acquire Australian Conveyor Engineering
("ACE") and expect to complete this
transaction at the end of November 2012.
ACE, which specialises in high capacity
conveyor systems to the mining sector,
furthers Fenner Dunlop's strategy of being
the supplier of choice for engineered conveyor
solutions in Australia.
People
During the year, we welcomed Vanda Murray
to the Board as Senior Independent Director.
Her strengths lie in sales and marketing,
particularly in organisations with a wide
geographical reach, which complements the
Board’s skills set.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in
January 2013, David Buttfield will leave the
Board after 10 years. This includes extending
his tenure following the untimely and sad
death of David Campbell in 2010. On behalf of
the Board, I would like to thank David for his
valuable contribution.
I believe that our employees are critical to our
continued success. I would like to take this
opportunity to express my thanks to all our
employees around the world for their
commitment and dedication.
Governance
The growth, strength and resilience of Fenner
is built on the bedrock of strong governance
and high business standards. These
principles remain part of our fundamental
core values.
During the year, the Board reviewed our policy
on diversity which resulted in a Board
Diversity Statement being implemented. The
Nomination Committee considers diversity in
all forms when making appointments with the
best candidate being selected based on merit
regardless of gender, ethnicity or religious
beliefs. This philosophy on diversity runs
throughout the Group.
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
Overview
Chairman’s Statement 6
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements
The Board has made several site visits around
the Group which included operations within
the USA, the Netherlands and the UK. These
visits have helped to broaden the non-
executive directors’ knowledge of the Group’s
business.
Corporate Responsibility
To Fenner, conducting business in an
appropriate manner means delivering high
standards of health and safety to provide safe
working conditions, a respect for the
environment in which we work and behaving
with integrity. As an organisation, we believe
that being both a good neighbour and
employer and having a positive influence in
our communities will contribute to the
sustainability of our business.
The Group Health & Safety Management
System Framework is embedded worldwide
and facilitates a continually improving health
and safety culture. Concern for the Group’s
impact on the environment is a fundamental
part of our corporate business strategy as we
contribute towards a sustainable future. Our
Code of Business Conduct sets out the
behavioural standards expected of all
employees. The cornerstones of the Code are
fairness, honesty and integrity.
Outlook
The year just ended was one of excellent
growth, delivering record results. Reflecting
this performance, the improved quality of the
Group’s earnings and our confidence in the
future growth of the business, the Board is
recommending a 31% increase in the dividend
for the year.
We remain mindful of the current global
economic uncertainty. Given both anticipated
end market trends and the very strong first
half last year, we expect our performance to
be more heavily weighted to the second half of
the current year.
As a result of our investment programme over
recent years, Fenner is a much stronger and
more resilient business serving a more
diverse customer base. The fundamentals of
our core markets underpin healthy, long-term
growth, and we continue to be encouraged by
the number of identified opportunities for
sustained value creation.
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
Financial performance measures described as “underlying” within this report are before amortisation of intangible
assets acquired and, where applicable, notional interest. Underlying earnings per share is based on the basic weighted
average number of shares in issue.
Revenue
2011: £718.3m
£830.6m
Underlying operating profit
2011: £91.4m
£118.8m
16% 30%
Dividend per share
2011: 8.0p
10.5p
31%
A detailed review of Corporate Governance
is set out on pages 31 to 39 
A detailed review of Corporate Responsibility
is set out on pages 50 to 56 
