 10
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements
Q: What is Fenner’s
philosophy and practice
for Health & Safety?
A: Health and safety is simply the number
one priority for everyone at Fenner.
We believe that everyone who works for
Fenner should expect to return home at
night in the same fit and healthy state in
which they came to work in the morning.
Throughout the Group we work to fulfil
these objectives through a unique
approach known as The Framework,
which communicates our expectations
whilst encouraging every Fenner employee
to participate in taking responsibility for
health and safety through a process of
continuous improvement.
Since its launch in 2009, The Framework
approach has markedly improved the
awareness and attention paid to health
and safety and we have seen a steady
decline in the frequency of injuries. Our
health and safety journey is one of
continuous improvement across the
Group; many parts are now focused on
utilising leading indicators such as near
misses and safety inspections as a
further means to improve our
performance, assisting us all.
Q: Fenner has enjoyed strong
growth in recent years.
What factors have
contributed to this
growth?
A: Sales revenue at constant exchange rates
has increased at an annual, compound
rate of 11% for the last four years. Organic
growth in both divisions has accounted for
approximately 60% of this total, with the
remainder coming from targeted
acquisitions. Fenner serves a number of
end markets, such as mining, energy and
medical, which enjoy good, long-term
growth characteristics and have been
particularly strong in recent years.
Q: Do your end markets and
businesses hold further
growth opportunities?
A: Fenner is well placed to continue to
exploit markets which have good, long-
term growth characteristics. In the
mineral extraction industry, representing
approximately 54% of revenue, demand
for coal, iron ore and copper ore, despite
the current period of uncertainty, is
projected to continue to grow over the
medium and longer term, driven by
industrialisation and urbanisation in BRIC
countries.
The oil and gas industry, representing
approximately 6% of Group revenue, will
benefit from growth in global energy
demand while the medical device market,
representing approximately 4% of Group
revenue, is expected to continue to grow
faster than GDP as populations age in
developed economies and healthcare
provision grows in developing economies.
In addition, there are considerable
opportunities for geographic expansion of
our successful business models into non-
traditional markets and for product line
extension to increase penetration of
existing markets.
Q: Many mining companies
have announced reviews
and reductions of their
future capital investment
plans. How do you expect
this to affect Fenner?
A: Conveyor belt is a consumable item in
most applications and the market for
replacements is many times larger than
the market for belts used in new
installations. Fenner’s ECS division has
been deliberately positioned to take
advantage of this with 15 factories and 46
service branches positioned in or close to
many of the major mining regions of the
world. 86% of the ECS division’s revenue
in 2012 was from this aftermarket, the
remaining 14% being from new
installations.
A high level of mining capital expenditure
is always welcome because it adds to the
future installed base of conveyors.
However, a reduction in mining capital
has limited direct effect on our ECS
business.
Q: You have said that
additional production
capacity will be coming
online soon. When do you
expect this to be
available?
A: In the last year we have made capital
investments of £29m in various Fenner
operations around the world, more than
half of which have been to expand our
capacity and capability to support our
customers. Included in this total are
three projects to increase our
manufacturing capacity for conveyor belt
in China, Australia and the Netherlands.
All three of these projects are expected to
be completed during the winter of 2012
and spring of 2013.
Q: What are the main
economic drivers for the
AEP division?
A: The AEP division is made up of operations
which specialise in solving customers’
most difficult engineering problems in a
wide range of market niches. Whilst there
is no single economic driver, the division
has achieved annual compound revenue
growth at constant exchange rates of 8%
over the last four years.
Approximately 20% of the division’s
revenues are derived from the oil and gas
market and 13% from the medical
market, whose economic drivers are
growth in global energy consumption and
global healthcare respectively. A further
15% of revenue is driven by the
construction industry which has been
rather depressed in recent years. The
remainder of the division’s products
serve general industrial markets with
North America being the predominant
geography.
Nicholas Hobson
Chief 
Executive Officer
Richard Perry
Group 
Finance Director
Q&A
A detailed review of Corporate Responsibility
is set out on pages 50 to 56 Q: Shale gas has been a
volatile market. How
important is this market
and will you continue to
expand in this area?
A: Shale gas production has grown rapidly in
the USA over recent years and Fenner has
participated in that growth through
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies’
sealing products. Spring of 2012 saw a
period of shale gas oversupply and rapidly
decreasing gas prices which has
temporarily slowed development of US
shale gas resources. This market
accounted for less than 2% of Fenner’s
revenue in 2012 but we expect substantial
growth in future years as American
unconventional drilling technology is used
to exploit reserves in other regions.
Q: Margins have increased
steadily over the past
three years in ECS. How
has this been achieved 
and what progress do 
you anticipate in the
future?
A: Margin improvements in ECS have been a
result of three main factors:
we have made considerable
improvements in manufacturing
productivity and process control as a
result of our capital investments in
recent years;
new products have enabled us to gain
share in steadily growing global
markets; and
we have progressively extended the
technical capabilities and geographic
footprint of our ECS programme
which has enabled us to become a
more added value supplier to our
markets.
We anticipate a reduced rate of margin
growth in the future. Although the vast
majority of the benefits of our capital
investments have been realised, there are
continuing opportunities to expand
market share and delivery of our ECS
model.
Q: AEP margins remain in the
upper teens but softened
during the global financial
crisis. What caused the
margin compression and
where should margin
expectations be for the
future and why?
A: Historic operating margins have been
remarkably stable in our AEP division. The
division comprises a number of specialist
units operating in niches that have been
developed over many years from providing
engineered solutions to troublesome
customer applications.
In economic downturns, the characteristic
of the AEP division was that rather than
reversing its gains it merely stopped
growing for a period. The global financial
crisis was quite a different environment.
Driven by cash constraints throughout the
industrial world, our distribution partners
and original equipment manufacturing
customers were forced to reduce their
stock holdings to preserve cash. The
impact of these programmes on our AEP
operations was immediate and serious.
Order books collapsed and our operating
margins saw an 18 month period of
reduced performance. An important feature
was the resilience of our gross margin
position which demonstrated the retained
value of our components in the markets
they served. Operating margin compression
was the result of reduced volumes and our
decision to maintain our product
development and customer service
capability throughout that difficult period.
Margins have steadily returned to their
historic norms over the past two years.
Initially this was due to the end of the
customer destocking programmes and
was followed by the gradual improvement
in end market activity levels.
We remain focused on protecting and
developing our existing business and
driving investment into high margin growth
areas such as our medical units and oil
and gas related areas. These represent
exciting new developments in higher
margin markets which are expected to
slowly improve the already excellent
margin performance of the division.
Q: What was your experience
last year with raw
material pricing?
A: Generally, raw material prices have been
stable in 2012 compared to the dramatic
price increase environment experienced
by our business teams in the prior year. 
Q: How will ECS grow in the
future? Do you anticipate
further geographic
coverage in the division
and how will this be
achieved?
A: From a manufacturing standpoint, we
already possess an enviable worldwide
footprint operating from 15 plants on five
continents. Business development is a
constant focus and we will build strength
in the emerging geographic areas where
our customers require our support and
which can be demonstrated to offer long-
term shareholder value. This will likely
take the form of infill organic investment
and further service and technical
coverage rather than large scale spending
on acquisitions.
We have recently announced the
conditional acquisition of Australian
Conveyor Engineering which effectively
completes our ECS technology platform in
Australia.
Q: 12 months ago you
launched the ECS brand.
Why did you do this and
has it been successful?
A: The ECS brand was launched to
demonstrate to the world that, after more
than a decade of hard work, Fenner
Dunlop is no longer just a belt
manufacturer but is uniquely capable of
offering customers total solutions to
minimise downtime and reduce the total
cost of ownership of their conveying
systems.
Delivering a message of this type is
always a long process and we are pleased
with the initial response from both our
customers and financial markets.
A detailed review of the ECS division is
set out on pages 15 to 17
A detailed review of the AEP division is
set out on pages 18 to 20
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
11
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 12
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements
Q: The North American coal
industry has been affected
by the availability of
cheap, plentiful shale gas.
What effect has this had on
Fenner’s operations?
A: US gas prices fell to a low in spring 2012
following a mild winter and over-
exuberant development of shale gas
resources. As a result, those electricity
generators who were able to do so began
to switch fuel source from coal to gas,
leading to a decline in coal consumption of
approximately 9%. Since then, mining
companies have sought to adjust their
production rates to match lower demand
and a number of less efficient, higher cost
coal mines have been mothballed or closed.
In our North American ECS operations, we
have experienced slower incoming order
rates since early summer although the
effect on 2012 trading was largely offset by
strong demand patterns in other regions.
It is clear that the US coal and gas
industries are currently in a period of
uncertainty. As we enter the new financial
year, US gas prices have increased by
more than 50% and coal stockpiles have
also reduced. At current prices, shale gas
production is expected to naturally wane
and the effects of recent events will begin
to reverse.
The fundamentals of the coal extraction
industry in North America remain sound.
The economic extraction prices of natural
gas and coal determine that the coal
industry has a long life ahead of it.
Investment is continuing in efficient new
mines and port infrastructure to support
both domestic demand and the growing
export market.
Q: Organic capital investment
has been a characteristic
of the Group in the past
five years. What should we
expect in the future?
A: We embarked upon a very considerable
capital investment programme from 2006
to 2008. The programme was successfully
implemented and, together with
acquisitions, has created a virtuous circle
of cash generation that is available for
future investment. Our teams operate in
many geographic end markets and
constantly develop exciting opportunities
for the creation of future shareholder
value. We have invested in excess of our
depreciation charge of £20m in 2012 with
£29m of expenditure during the year,
giving a capital expenditure/depreciation
ratio of 1.4x. With only approximately £9m
of this amount being used for equipment
replacement, it is evident that we are
investing heavily in development, with
approximately £20m in 2012. It is
anticipated that a similar level of
development capital expenditure will be
invested in both 2013 and 2014.
The capital expenditure programme is
complemented by our business acquisition
activity where £34m was invested in the
2012 financial year and a further £40m in
the opening month of the current year .
Q: Fenner has recently
announced three
acquisitions in AEP. How
do they fit within the AEP
strategy?
A: Our acquisition strategy for the AEP
division is focused on the oil and gas and
medical markets due to their attractive
underlying growth fundamentals.
Norwegian Seals supplies performance-
critical seals for the subsea oil and gas
market and focuses on the Norwegian
continental shelf and North Sea fields
from facilities in Norway and the UK.
American Industrial Plastics has
remarkable expertise in ultra-high
precision machining of polymers. The
facility in Daytona Beach, Florida serves a
number of end markets, the most
important being oil and gas and medical.
The Mandals group of companies
demonstrates many of the same
attributes as other AEP operations and
has developed world-leading technologies
for the manufacture of lay-flat hoses used
in various fluid handling markets
including oil and gas, agriculture and
mine dewatering.
Q: How quickly can the
medical operations
expand? Will this be
achieved through organic
growth or acquisition?
A: The expansion of Fenner’s medical
activities is expected to occur through a
combination of organic and acquisitive
growth.
Despite challenging trading conditions at
Xeridiem, medical revenues grew
organically by 7% this year. We continue to
target medical revenues of over $100m
although this level will not quickly be
achieved until our acquisition process
begins to bear fruit.
Q: How do you anticipate the
balance between AEP and
ECS developing in the
future?
A: Both the AEP and ECS divisions have
grown at comparable rates over the last
four years and therefore the balance of
revenues has been fairly stable with ECS
at 71% and AEP at 29%.
We are committed to a strategy of
continuing to invest for growth in both
divisions and therefore any major change
in the revenue balance is unlikely in the
short term.
Q: The rate of dividend was
increased significantly in
2012. How should we view
the policy going forward?
A: Fenner has a good record in terms of
dividend performance which it has
guarded through many economic
downturns. Since the dividend was
reinstated in 1994, the dividend has never
been passed or reduced.
The Group invested heavily during the mid
2000s and improved its earnings quality.
Today, Fenner is a different business to
the one that saw the turn of the
millennium. It is better equipped and
more flexible, with an enviable diversity of
geography and markets which have driven
higher quality earnings and an
expectation of greater resilience in harder
economic conditions.
The dividend was increased by 31% in
2012 to reflect the 57% increase in
underlying earnings per share in 2011 and
a further 28% in 2012. At this level, the
dividend cover is in excess of three times.
The Group is committed to maintaining a
progressive policy in regard to its
dividend, which will be reviewed annually
in the context of the prevailing conditions. 13
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012
Q: Group gearing remains
conservative, supported
by good free cash flow
from profitable
operations. Is this likely to
change?
A: Share capital is an expensive and valuable
resource which should be put to work
with sensible levels of complementary
leverage. The fixed-term nature of our
senior debt directs us to maintain a net
debt to underlying EBITDA ratio of at least
1x in order to ensure efficient utilisation of
the facilities available to us. 
With a global debt covenant of in excess of
3.5x, we would not expect this ratio to
exceed 1.5x in normal trading conditions. 
Q: What are the risk factors
that worry you?
A: Investment in manufacturing on a global
scale is inherently a risky business over
the short term; control of our operating
risks is therefore a part of our existence.
We believe that the quality of our people
and the flexibility that our recent
investments have built into our operations
mitigates these risks. 
Macro-economic trends beyond our
control remain the most significant
variable in our operating universe. Our
defence is our diversity, but a macro event
that impacts markets on a global scale
would inevitably lead to a challenging
environment for our Group.
Q: Do you have any plans for
a future share issue?
A: Our balance sheet strength, secure debt
financing and free cash flow generation
are currently seen as sufficient to finance
our existing plans. This does not preclude
an approach to our shareholders in the
event of a value generating proposition
being developed; however, there are
currently no plans or need for such an
approach.
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
