 6
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Dear Shareholder
In our financial year to 31 August 2013,
revenue was £820.6m (2012: £830.6m),
underlying operating profit was £101.5m
(2012: £118.8m), underlying profit before
taxation was £86.9m (2012: £103.9m) and
underlying earnings per share was 30.1p
(2012: 36.1p). 
Our performance throughout the year reflects
the strength and resilience of the businesses
we have built, with AEP achieving record
annual revenues and profit. The first half of
the financial year saw a robust response by
both ECS and AEP to difficult trading
conditions in certain key markets. As set out
in the table below, our financial performance
recovered strongly in the second half of the
year as conditions showed some signs of
improvement. 
During the year, we invested £90m in the
future of the Group, with capital expenditure
of £27.3m and £62.5m spent on acquisitions.
In addition to investing in our business, strong
cash generation was also a feature of the
year. Net cash from operations was £126.5m,
representing 125% of underlying operating
profit and, despite our investment
programme, net debt at the year end increased
only moderately to £121.1m (2012: £97.7m). 
Economic background
While the slow recovery in global growth
continued throughout the year under review,
economic conditions during 2013 were affected
by lower than expected growth in emerging
economies. In China, which is the principal
global driver of commodity demand, weaker
trade and soft manufacturing activity pulled
economic growth rates slightly below
expectations, creating uncertainty over
commodity demand. However, with
employment and income remaining resilient,
the Chinese government had room to continue
structural reform and, as a result, commodity
volumes key to Fenner continued to grow. 
Current global economic forecasts for 2014
are positive, showing stronger growth as
advanced economies continue to recover,
supporting growth in the export driven
emerging economies. Current 2014 growth
forecasts have improved to 2.0% for advanced
economies and 5.1% for emerging and
developing economies (IMF World Economic
Outlook, October 2013). 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER’S REVIEW
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
2012 2013
Summary of results and performance
1H 2H FY 1H 2H FY
Revenue (£m)
ECS 295.0 298.4 593.4 265.7 284.1 549.8
AEP 117.0 120.2 237.2 125.6 145.2 270.8
Fenner 412.0 418.6 830.6 391.3 429.3 820.6
Underlying operating profit (£m)
ECS 39.8 44.6 84.4 28.6 34.4 63.0
AEP 20.5 23.1 43.6 19.1 27.7 46.8
Corporate (4.6) (4.6) (9.2) (4.4) (3.9) (8.3)
Fenner 55.7 63.1 118.8 43.3 58.2 101.5
Underlying operating margin
ECS 13.5% 14.9% 14.2% 10.8% 12.1% 11.5%
AEP 17.5% 19.2% 18.4% 15.2% 19.1% 17.3%
Fenner 13.5% 15.1% 14.3% 11.1% 13.6% 12.4%
Fenner (£m)
Underlying profit before taxation 48.1 55.8 103.9 35.8 51.1 86.9
Net cash from operations 43.4 83.7 127.1 38.1 88.4 126.5
A solid performance in challenging conditions
demonstrates the strength of Fenner’s businesses. Engineered Conveyor Solutions
In 2013, ECS generated revenue of £549.8m
(2012: £593.4m) and underlying operating
profit of £63.0m (2012: £84.4m). As in previous
years, the largest region by revenue was the
Americas, principally the USA, which
accounted for 42% of the division’s revenue
(2012: 44%), followed by Asia Pacific,
principally Australia, with 41% (2012: 38%).
ECS’s results for the year were below those of
the record achieved in 2012 as the mining
industries in the USA and then subsequently in
Australia saw markedly weaker trading
environments than in recent years, with lower
commodity prices impacting sentiment
amongst ECS’s customers. In the face of lower
demand for our conveyor belting and related
services, we acted promptly to reduce manned
capacity and overhead costs. However, by the
end of the year, ECS’s trading conditions in the
USA had shown some signs of recovery and, in
Australia, conditions appeared to be
stabilising. In other regions, demand was
generally stronger throughout the year.
Americas
The USA is the largest market for ECS. In the
last quarter of the 2012 financial year, we saw
markedly lower order intake as exceptionally
low prices for natural gas caused some short-
term switching away from coal as a source of
energy for electricity generation. Overall
demand for electricity also reduced due to
economic uncertainty and subsequent milder
winter weather.
ECS’s order intake started to show some
improvement from the start of 2013 as natural
gas prices rose and maintained levels above
those at which key US coal producing areas
regained their competitiveness in the supply
of fuel for power generation. The recovery in
demand for coal for use in power generation
was assisted by generally improving economic
conditions across the USA.
Against this background, ECS’s financial
performance in the USA in 2013 was behind
the exceptional result achieved in 2012 but,
with the recovering trading conditions, relative
performance improved as the year
progressed. Measures taken to reduce costs
helped to offset the impact on operating
margins from lower volumes.
Our business in Chile, which is focused on the
buoyant copper industry, performed well and
continued to develop; we now have over 150
service engineers in place. With the
expectation of continued further growth in
global demand for copper, we see considerable
potential for this region in the future. 
Asia Pacific
ECS’s business in Asia Pacific is
predominantly located in Australia, where
ECS’s customers are some of the largest and
lowest cost producers of thermal coal,
metallurgical coal and iron ore.  
In Australia, the first quarter of the financial
year saw a continuation of the strong trading
environment from the previous year. However,
from the second quarter onwards, prices of
iron ore and coal began to fall. Although
volumes, particularly of iron ore, remained
strong, these price falls reduced profitability
and damaged the sentiment of our mining
customers who responded by seeking to
reduce their operating costs and expenditure. 
The immediate impact on our ECS business
was a reduction in demand for our products as
miners deferred planned maintenance such as
belt renewals, even though this carried with it
the increased risk of failures at their facilities.
There was a less pronounced fall in demand
for our services as miners increasingly sought
to “make do and mend”, which helped to
maintain the overall performance of our
business at this time, endorsing our focus on
the aftermarket.
As the year progressed, we increasingly
worked with our mining customers to help
them achieve the cost reductions needed to
enable them to operate profitably in a lower
price environment. This included, for example,
value engineering belt for less demanding
applications. As part of this process and in
common with other suppliers, we also agreed
to certain price reductions, the impact of
which amounted to low, single digit
percentages across the Australian business
as a whole, which we believe were appropriate
in the exceptional market conditions in order
to maintain our market leading position in the
Australian mining industry. Through careful
management of our own costs, we were able
to reduce the impact of these price reductions
on our own financial performance.
Despite the commodity price falls, for most of
the year, the volume of iron ore and coal
mined in Australia continued to grow. Our
products and services are critical to miners’
ability to ship the material extracted. By the
end of the financial year, there was some
cautious resumption of expenditures deferred
from earlier on in the year. 
In November 2012, we acquired Australian
Conveyor Engineering (“ACE”). Services and
non-belt products are important parts of our
business in Australia, accounting for around
one-half of revenue, and this acquisition has
increased our ability to provide our customers
in Australia with a complete service offering. 
We successfully commissioned the expansion
of our Kwinana plant in Western Australia,
which is described in more detail on page 16.
We have continued to develop our presence in
the growth economies of India and China. In
India, coal mining continues to grow, although
at a slower rate than some previous
projections. In China, the coal market has
been characterised by excess supply and
falling coal prices which has led to many mine
closures. In both countries, the market for
belting is competitive, with a large number of
local manufacturers producing low quality
belt with a considerable emphasis on price
rather than the belt’s performance
characteristics. We have been successful in
maintaining and extending our position as a
7
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
ECS in new markets
As a global provider of locally engineered solutions,
ECS supports its customers wherever they are,
often opening a local service branch to support the
installation and maintenance of conveyor systems,
particularly the belt. As well as providing a base for
skilled technicians and their equipment, stocks of
frequently requested belting and other components
are held. ECS’s recent expansion into new markets
has included the opening of branches in Chile,
Dubai, Morocco and Ghana.
CASE STUDY
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued supplier of high-performance belt for certain
critical applications.
Europe, Middle East & Africa
Overall, the outcome for the year was very
pleasing, with revenue from new customers
and markets offsetting declines in our more
traditional markets and with margins showing
a noticeable improvement.
We experienced lower volumes in western and
southern European markets, caused by the
continuing decline of coal mining in these
regions and generally unfavourable conditions
in the construction industry. These were offset
by progress in export markets, particularly in
Africa and the Middle East, which was
supported by the opening of new service units
in Dubai and Ghana. 
In southern Africa, ECS continued to supply
solid woven belt to the domestic coal mining
industry. Progress was also made in
increasing sales of steel cord belt to iron ore
mines and expanding the service offering.
A principal event of the year was the
successful commissioning of the steel cord
belt plant in the Netherlands. This greatly
enhances our ability to serve customers
outside our core markets of the USA and
Australia with a full range of heavyweight
belts.
Advanced Engineered Products
In 2013, AEP generated record results with
revenue of £270.8m (2012: £237.2m) and
underlying operating profit of £46.8m (2012:
£43.6m). 
A particular feature of the year’s result is that
customers in the oil & gas and medical
industries accounted for 40% of AEP’s revenue
(2012: 33%); we believe that these industries
offer superior growth and margin opportunities
and we will continue to invest in them.
The full year result reflects contrasting
performances between the first and second
halves of the year. The first half of the year
saw general economic concerns in the USA,
the division’s principal market. The US
government’s fiscal position and the overall
pace of economic recovery led to channel
destocking amongst AEP’s distributors and
end-user customers. This resulted in a half
year financial result which was behind that
achieved in the first half of 2012. 
The division saw an improvement in trading
conditions during the second half of the year
as the economic outlook in the USA generally
improved. When combined with measures
taken to strengthen the business, this led to a
much improved financial performance.
Underlying operating profit for the second half
was a record £27.7m, compared to £19.1m in
the first half. The underlying operating margin
in the second half was 19.1%.
At the beginning of the year, AEP made three
acquisitions, all of which have been
successfully integrated and have performed
ahead of our expectations.
AEP is organised into three product groups:
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies;
Precision Polymers; and Solesis Medical. 
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies
(“FAST”) designs and manufactures
performance-critical seals for original
equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and for
aftermarket applications in the oil & gas,
construction and mining equipment and other
industries.
During the first half of the year, there was
reduced demand from customers in the oil &
gas industry, particularly as the drilling of
conventional gas wells was reduced by lower
gas prices. In addition, there was reduced
demand for Hallite’s seals from OEMs located
in the USA, partly reflecting conditions in
export markets. Trading subsequently
recovered, particularly in relation to the oil &
gas industry, and FAST made a significant
contribution to the improvement in AEP’s
financial results in the second half of the year.
The acquisition of Norwegian Seals has given
us access to additional subsea oil and gas
technology and, together with our existing
presence in the USA and Singapore, extends
our coverage of subsea customers globally.
We acquired American Industrial Plastics to
extend our precision machining capabilities to
serve both the oil & gas and medical device
markets.
Precision Polymers
Precision Polymers comprises: Fenner
Precision, which supplies bespoke belts and
similar components for office equipment;
Fenner Drives, which supplies belts and
related components for power transmission
applications; James Dawson, which
manufactures high performance hoses for
heavy duty diesel engines; and Mandals,
which was acquired in September 2012 and
which manufactures lay-flat hoses for
applications including “fracking”. 
Precision Polymers generated revenue and
operating profit which were appreciably ahead
of the previous year. Mandals had a
particularly successful year, with a significant
increase in demand from oilfield operators for
hoses for use in fracking applications in the
USA and Canada. The industry is switching
from rigid pipes to lay-flat hoses, which offer
considerable advantages in terms of ease of
Further information on ECS is set out in the
Divisional Review on pages 13 to 16
8
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Renewable Energy - Crux Seals
Fenner Precision, in partnership with Crux
Products Limited, is using its fabrication
skills and polymer know-how to
manufacture fabric reinforced polymer
grout and tongue seals for oil and gas rigs
and wind energy structures in offshore wind
farms. Designed to work in the hostile
undersea environment of the North Sea,
these seals are a key part of the passive
systems used to install offshore wind
turbine masts, contrasting favourably with
the older, inflatable, active systems. The
competitive advantages of these grout and
tongue seals are proven by their use in the
two largest offshore wind farms operating
in the world: Greater Gabbard (opened in
August 2013) and the London Array.  
CASE STUDY transportation and laying and in which field
Mandals is a market leader. As a result,
Mandals achieved a financial outcome for the
year well ahead of expectations at the time it
was acquired and we have commenced
expansion of Mandals’ plant in Norway to
meet future demand.
Fenner Precision and Fenner Drives both
experienced soft demand for their products
for most of the year, reflecting conditions
amongst their OEM customers, although
some improvement was apparent in the later
months. James Dawson saw lower demand
for hoses used in large diesel engines for use
in applications such as mining equipment,
although this situation improved through the
second half. 
Solesis Medical
Solesis Medical comprises: Secant Medical,
which manufactures textile components for
permanently implanted medical devices; and
Xeridiem, which manufactures complete,
single use disposable devices, mainly used for
enteral feeding. Both businesses are located
in the USA and primarily sell to customers
located there.
We believe that both businesses serve
segments of the medical market which, with
progressively ageing and sedentary
populations in the USA and other developed
nations, are likely to offer superior growth. 
Secant is continuing to develop a strong
pipeline of products which are expected to
reach the market in the next few years. A
number of existing products are currently
being marketed and are expected to achieve
higher volumes in the future. However,
Secant’s performance in 2013 was impacted
by a customer’s vertical integration of a
production process and another customer
facing a significant delay in obtaining Federal
Drugs Administration approval. 
Xeridiem saw a much improved financial
performance as revenues from device sales
and development activities increased.
Further information on AEP is set out in the
Divisional Review on pages 17 to 20
9
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Objectives
We expect to maintain capital
expenditure in excess of depreciation
We will continue to invest in the
Group’s human capital and
knowledge base
We will continue to finance the Group
using retained earnings and long-
term borrowings
Strategic goals
In last year’s Annual Report, I identified our strategy as being to increase market share and target new value added product areas to create
a strong, growing and resilient company for the coming decades.
The table below sets out progress against our strategic goals and our aims for the near future.
Examples of what we have done Examples of what we expect
to do in the future
Strong
Growing
Maximise organic and
acquired growth
Increase focus on faster
growing emerging markets
Identify fast growing
applications
We have positioned the Group for further
growth in emerging markets
ECS has opened service centres in Chile,
Dubai, Morocco and Ghana
AEP has successfully acquired and
integrated businesses focused on the oil
& gas industry
ECS is targeting emerging
economies in South America and
Africa
AEP will pursue opportunities
outside its traditional US markets
AEP sees the oil & gas and medical
industries as areas for further
growth
We have strengthened the management
teams in AEP and ECS
We have strengthened and grown our
asset base 
We have introduced more suitable pension
arrangements in the UK
Our borrowings are long-term and
financial covenants are robust
Invest in human capital
Extend intellectual property
inventory
Maintain and improve
business infrastructure
Sustain a secure balance
sheet
Resilient
Performance-critical
Aftermarket focus
Balanced portfolio
Exposure to long-term
growth markets
We have continued to diversify our ECS
business away from its traditional reliance
on belting for thermal coal 
ECS has developed a more comprehensive
service offering than any other major
belting group
AEP’s positioning with performance-
critical products, external certifications
and logistical support protect its
relationships with customers
ECS will continue to increase its
service offerings to customers in
existing and new markets
We will use AEP’s expertise to
identify and develop new products
Where appropriate, we will use
acquisitions to increase our
exposure to long-term growth
markets 
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 10
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results
Health and safety
The Group has an overriding commitment to
provide a safe and secure working
environment which extends beyond our
employees to employees of other companies
working on our behalf as well as to
customers, visitors and neighbours who may
be affected by our activities. Accordingly, I
would like to extend my thanks to all those
involved in reducing the lost time incident
frequency rate (“LTIFR”) by 37% to 1.08
incidents for every 200,000 hours worked and
specifically employees on our Houston sites
who passed 1,000,000 hours without incident
in August.
Fenner promotes health and safety as a key
element in the culture of each of its
operations. The Health & Safety Management
System Framework (“The Framework”)
provides structure and guidance to all
operations, irrespective of size, to deliver
continuous improvement within our unique
culture of autonomy with accountability. 
Providing services at customer facilities is a
growing part of our business. Often these
customers demand sound health and safety
management systems. For such customers,
The Framework, our health and safety
management systems and the associated
training are a significant and unique selling
proposition.
Employees
All our operations have processes that require
high levels of proficiency and technical
expertise. Some of those skills are not
available in the general workforce in every
region, therefore, we have continued with our
commitment to training and development. In
our ECS operations, employee numbers were
adjusted to meet reduced demand; restricting
shift patterns and reducing overtime enable
us to retain key skills and to allow for
improvements in demand.
Fenner continues to benefit from a skilled and
committed workforce in both our acquired and
existing operations. I acknowledge the
importance of our employees’ contribution to
the performance of the Group. Productivity
and, in the service operation the utilisation of
our employees, are key factors to Fenner’s
success. 
Customers and suppliers
From large multinational oil, gas and mining
companies to the smallest medical start-up,
across thousands of customers, each Group
operation ensures it is meeting its customers’
expectations. Experienced sales teams
maintain close contact with customers,
providing feedback on those expectations and
ensuring satisfactory performance. These
qualitative indicators are complemented by
quantitative measurements including
customer surveys and “on time in full”
performance. While some operations are
dependent on a small number of customers,
Fenner’s largest customer accounts for less
than 6% of revenue. 
Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from
thousands of tonnes of rubber compound to a
few hundred grammes of biomaterials, so our
operations work closely with selected
suppliers to ensure that our customers
benefit from the latest technical
developments in materials and processes.
The majority of these relationships are in the
normal course of business, ensuring quality,
continuity of supply and competitive
commercial terms. Where appropriate, and
usually relating to technical developments,
relationships are formally documented. In
2013, most Fenner operations saw stable
material prices and adequate availability.
Close cooperation with established suppliers
and the active development of new sources
has ensured, and continues to ensure,
continuity of supply, consistent quality and
technical leadership.
Outlook
Fenner is well positioned as we enter our
2014 financial year, with the benefit of the
investments made in both divisions over
recent years, a strong financial position and a
mixed but generally improving global
economic environment.
Against a background of increasing global
mineral extraction tonnages, sentiment
amongst our mining customers in Australia
and the USA is gradually improving as they
seek to optimise the operating efficiency of
their existing installed capacity, assisted in
the case of Australia by a weaker currency. As
a supplier of mining consumables and
services, our ECS division expects to benefit
from the industry’s cautious return to more
normal maintenance and replacement
practices.
As we continue with the strategic
development of our ECS division towards
emerging markets and hard rock mining, we
expect to make further progress in Latin
America, Africa and the Middle East.
AEP entered the 2014 financial year with a
positive trading momentum in all of its
businesses, assisted by signs of continued,
steady economic improvement in the USA. We
have targeted the oil & gas and medical
markets as offering growth opportunities and
AEP’s businesses serving these segments
remain well positioned to out-perform. 
We intend to continue to invest in the future of
the Group. Human capital and knowledge are
vital to our success, particularly in AEP and
higher revenue investment in these areas is
planned. We also expect capital expenditure in
2014 to be slightly ahead of 2013. We will
pursue value-accretive acquisition
opportunities, which we see as being more
likely in AEP. 
Overall, we continue to expect that the current
financial year will see a return to growth.
Nicholas Hobson
Chief Executive Officer
13 November 2013
More information on health, safety and
environmental matters and our employees
can be found on  pages 49 to 54
