 5
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013
Dear Shareholder
The overall result for the year was, in terms of
revenue, operating profit and earnings, the
second highest achieved by the Group and
was in line with the Board’s expectations at
the mid-point of the year. This was achieved in
the context of a challenging operating
environment in the first half of the year and
improving trading conditions during the
second half in most of our regions of
operation. 
During the second half of the year, there was an
especially strong performance by AEP, assisted
by a successful acquisition programme such
that, for the year as a whole, AEP achieved
record revenue and underlying operating profit.
A further highlight of the year was the
completion of the capacity expansion at our
Kwinana facility in Western Australia. Fenner
serves most of the lowest cost producers of
iron ore in the world, many of whom are
located in Australia, and we believe that, over
the life of this facility, it will generate
significant returns for shareholders. 
A full review of the Group’s performance
during the year and outlook is set out on
pages 6 to 26.
People
I would like to take this opportunity to express
my sincere thanks to all of our employees
around the world for their commitment and
dedication; Fenner can only succeed because
it has strong, dedicated and committed
employees. The fact that the Group achieved
its second highest results during difficult
trading conditions is a credit to our
employees’ hard work and determination. 
David Buttfield retired from the Board at the
AGM in January 2013 after serving 10 years as
a non-executive director. I would like to thank
David both personally and on behalf of the
Board and the Company for his valuable
contribution, knowledge, guidance and
professionalism. He has been a valuable and
trusted member of the Board and we wish
him a long and happy retirement.
I am pleased to confirm that during the year
both Alan Wood and John Sheldrick accepted
a second three year term as non-executive
directors. They both have a strong track
record in FTSE companies and vast
knowledge of the challenges faced by
international engineering businesses. They
have skills that are complementary to the
other Board members and continue to be
valued and trusted members of the Board.
Governance
We believe in behaving ethically and openly and
we adhere to and support the UK Corporate
Governance Code. The Board's commitment
to high standards of corporate governance
continues to be a driver for the success of the
business and underpins how we expect our
businesses to behave. During the year, the
Board considered the impact of the BIS
proposals on remuneration reporting, reviewed
the changes to the UK Corporate Governance
Code and finalised the external Board
evaluation process. The Board believes in
engaging with shareholders and meetings were
held during the year with our major
shareholders to discuss any governance
concerns or issues they might have. To ensure
the Board maintains a clear understanding of
Fenner’s business drivers and issues, it also has
regular contact with the management teams
and visits Group operations during the year . 
Corporate responsibility
Fenner believes that proper business conduct
requires the application of the highest
standards of health and safety to ensure safe
working conditions for our employees, a
respect for the environment in which we work,
an awareness of the environmental issues
faced by the Group and a commitment to
behave with integrity at all times. We believe
that we have a responsibility to be a good
neighbour and employer, providing a positive
influence in our communities. The Group
recognises that these values help to further
enhance the sustainability of our business.
Our approach to health and safety
management is enshrined in our Group Health
& Safety Management System Framework,
which is based on the principles of continuous
improvement and local accountability. Its
implementation is supported by a global
assurance process. Concern for the Group’s
impact on the environment is a fundamental
aspect of our business strategy; we recognise
this as a major factor in ensuring a
sustainable future. The key principles of
fairness, honesty and integrity are core to our
Code of Business Conduct. All employees are
required to apply these business standards in
their dealings with colleagues, business
partners and third parties alike.
Shareholder value and dividend
The Board is committed to the generation of
long-term value for Fenner shareholders and,
in order to achieve this, will continue to invest
in the development of both ECS and AEP. 
Acquisitions have always been an important
part of the Fenner growth strategy. During the
year, we acquired four businesses, financed
out of internally generated cash flow. These
acquisitions have so far produced an aggregate
return well ahead of expectations and we see
exciting potential for their future growth. The
Board will support the making of further
acquisitions where they will allow the Group
to enter new territories or acquire new
technology more expediently than could be
done organically and providing that they are
expected to generate value for shareholders. 
The Board believes that an important
component of shareholder value is the dividend
paid to the Company’s shareholders. In
recognition of the Group’s prospects and its
strong financial position, the Board is
recommending an increased final dividend of
7.5p per share (2012: 7.0p), which gives a total
dividend for the year of 11.25p (2012: 10.5p), an
increase of 7%.
The final dividend will be voted on by
shareholders at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting to be held on 15 January 2014, to
which I look forward to welcoming you.
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
13 November 2013
Further information on Corporate
Responsibility can be found on
pages 49 to 55
Further information on Corporate
Governance can be found 
on pages 29 to 36
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
CHAIRMAN’S   
STATEMENT
Mark Abrahams
Chairman
Focusing on delivering value to shareholders.
