 Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6
Strategic Report
Ronald Lavater
Chief Executive Officer
“Prior to Johns Hopkins, my career 
at Hospital Corporation of America 
(‘HCA ’), the largest private hospital 
company in the United States, 
allowed me to provide leadership for 
both mid-sized and large tertiary 
hospitals in highly competitive, 
growing markets. My previous 
experience as both CEO and Chief 
Operating Officer in a number of 
hospitals demonstrated my 
professional passion – providing the 
highest quality healthcare to patients 
while supporting our most valuable 
resources – our doctors, nurses, 
clinical ancillary staff and 
administrative teams.”
Leading the Transition
Building on a 29-year tradition of 
advancement and commitment to our 
patients, 2014 was a year of continued 
growth, clinical quality improvements, 
system enhancements, financial success 
and leadership transition for Al Noor.
As we move forward, with acknowledged 
challenges and equally clear opportunities, 
I value the trust and confidence the 
Company’s Board has placed in me as 
successor to the pioneering visionary, 
Dr. Kassem Alom, who founded 
Al Noor in 1985. Dr. Alom, together with his 
team, created the largest and best private 
hospital group in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi 
and we are committed to building on his 
legacy. I am delighted that he will remain on 
the Board as Deputy Chairman.
As Al Noor prepares for the future, my 
immediate priorities are clear: solidify our 
leadership team and clarify our strategy for 
growth. This will also require our entire 
organisation to manage change effectively 
while reinforcing our commitment to 
excellent patient care. As CEO I remain 
committed to lead this transition by being 
transparent with employees, clear in my 
assessment of the challenges we have 
ahead and respectful of those who care for 
our patients every day; all with a focus on 
the Company’s long-term vision.
Chief Executive’s Review
“I am truly honoured and excited to lead Al Noor through the next 
phase of expansion and look forward to using my more than 
twenty years of diverse healthcare experience to grow Al Noor 
and add to its success.” Corporate Governance
7 Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Financial Statements
As part of the process of putting together 
a new leadership team, I am pleased to 
report that we have successfully recruited 
two highly skilled individuals to fill key 
leadership positions.
• We welcomed Dr. Georges Feghali as 
our new Chief Medical Officer in 
January 2015. Dr. Feghali brings 
incredible clinical as well as 
management experience and will be 
highly effective in recruiting additional 
quality physicians to Al Noor.
• We also are delighted that David Hoidal 
– who joined the team in November 
2014 as our interim Chief Operating 
Officer – has, as of February 2015, 
taken the role permanently. David is an 
exceptional operations manager with a 
proven track record of producing 
efficiencies while building solid 
organisational structures
With more placements to be announced 
later in 2015, we are building a talented 
leadership team with the right experience, 
right focus and a strong commitment to 
achieve Al Noor’s strategy for clinical, 
service excellence and growth.
Parallel to solidifying a dynamic leadership 
team, has been my commitment to learning 
about Al Noor from its employees and 
patients. In recognition of the considerable 
challenge of succeeding Dr. Alom, I outlined 
my ‘100 Day Plan’ at the start of my tenure 
which emphasised meeting as many 
employees as possible, talking with our 
patients and their families about their 
experiences and visiting all our patient care 
facilities. Through Town Hall meetings and 
other gatherings at all of our hospitals and 
medical centres, I have been warmly 
received by our clinical and administrative 
staff. The transition from Dr. Alom has been 
well organised and viewed positively by our 
employees as the next evolution for Al Noor.
2014: Key Facts
In 2014, our people have delivered 
improvements in quality, grown the 
business and been recognised for 
excellence. Below are just a few key facts 
from this past year.
Continued Growth:
• Al Noor committed to expand our 
Airport Road campus, doubling the 
size of our facility on that campus
• In 2014 we opened three new Medical 
Centres providing clinical services for 
our growing patient population
• Construction is under way in Al Ain 
that will bring an additional hospital 
online in the first half of 2016
• Al Noor acquired Gulf International 
Cancer Centre (‘GICC’) to expand its 
current team of experts and adopt more 
pioneering technologies and techniques 
dedicated to the coordination of 
oncology services across our system
Focused on Clinical Quality 
and Innovation:
• Al Noor Hospital Khalifa Street 
Campus earns Joint Commission 
International (‘JCI’) Re-Accreditation 
in October achieving the ‘gold-seal’ of 
approval from JCI, confirming the 
hospital’s ongoing commitment to 
healthcare excellence
• Al Noor Hospital Airport Road’s 
innovative and successful cardiac 
surgery saves a 36 year-old patient 
suffering from a congenital heart 
condition
• Al Noor Hospital Airport Road 
Campus successfully performed 
‘Endoscopic Discectomy’, 
a minimally invasive disc surgery on 
patients who suffer from disc pain.
• Al Noor Hospital Airport Road Campus 
expanded its Cardiology Department 
to include a 24-hour Heart Attack Centre 
for cardiac catheterisation
• Al Noor Hospital Airport Road 
Campus, became the first hospital 
outside USA and Europe to introduce 
an innovative and advanced surgical 
tool (the first and only ‘fully motorised’ 
stapler in the world) to its operating 
rooms
• Al Noor Hospital Al Ain launches a 
state-of-the-art nuclear medicine 
department in 2014
• Al Noor prepares a team for ‘K2 Fetal 
Monitoring & Perinatal Training’ – 
one of the first private sector providers 
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi to complete 
the internationally acclaimed 
programme
• Al Noor successfully transfers acute 
case across borders from Al Noor 
Family Care Centre in Muscat, Oman to 
Al Noor Hospital safely and successfully 
for an emergency surgical treatment
Recognised for Excellence:
• Al Noor wins ‘Leadership Excellence 
in Healthcare Services’ Award at the 
prestigious 5th Middle East Business 
Leaders Awards
• Al Noor Receives ‘Best Healthcare 
Company’ Award at the Gulf Business 
Industry Awards 2014 held in Dubai
• Al Noor joins the AmCham Abu 
Dhabi ‘WOMEN ACHIEVE’ Initiative, 
an innovative programme established 
by the Women in Business Committee 
promoting the professional 
advancement of women
Critical Performance Elements:
Continuing to grow a successful 
healthcare company requires attention 
to a number of performance elements. 
My executive leadership team is 
committed to high performance with a 
constant eye on these critical elements.
Patient Care:
At the core of our success will always be 
our commitment to patient care. Our 
enduring commitment to excellence has 
been the platform for Al Noor’s strong 
reputation and for our financial success. I 
would like to recognise and thank all of our 
employees, management and staff alike, 
for their dedication and for the passion 
they bring every day towards improving the 
lives of our patients. They have been, and 
continue to be, the fundamental strength 
of Al Noor and reside at the heart of 
everything we do as we grow and serve 
and excel. Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 8
Strategic Report
commitment to quality and highly talented 
leadership teams will allow us to manage 
these challenges.
Regulatory Environment
The healthcare regulator in Abu Dhabi 
continues to raise standards and has set out 
an ambitious strategy to measure quality 
and report to the community the quality of 
healthcare services offered by the providers 
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. Al Noor is 
actively engaged with the regulator on this 
strategy, offering advice and guidance from 
the provider side. We believe that 
transparency about the quality of services 
will improve the healthcare delivery system 
for all, and will benefit the quality providers 
like Al Noor.
Health Insurance Environment
Our insurance partners continue to push for 
quality metrics as well as proper unitisation 
of services to reduce unnecessary visits 
and tests. We support these efforts and 
have participated in such initiatives.
Two such examples are with Daman, the 
largest insurance company in the Abu 
Dhabi market and our largest payer, are:
• The Maternity Management Programme 
aims to provide full support and care 
throughout the nine months of 
pregnancy and onwards ensuring safe 
pre-natal and post-natal care
• The Asthma Project is a cross-sector 
healthcare improvement partnership 
project by ANHAR, HAAD, DAMAN and 
NOVARTIS to improve the quality and 
safety of clinical care offered to asthma 
patients, both children and adults. By 
the end of the project ANHAR will be 
certified as Asthma Centre of 
Excellence by DAMAN health insurance
We enjoy a strong relationship with all our 
insurance companies in our market. During 
my first 100 days I met with each of the CEOs 
of our top insurance companies, covering 
nearly 90 percent of our business. I will 
continue to build on these relationships so 
that we will be appropriately paid for the 
quality of our services and the assets we put 
in place to serve the patient population.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Recruiting High Quality Medical Staff:
Maintaining and enhancing Al Noor’s 
dedicated cadre of physicians remains key 
to our strategic and financial success. As 
we acquire more access points for patients 
and streamline to improve admissions, we 
must also keep pace with this increasing 
demand by recruiting highly skilled 
physicians. In addition, we target our 
recruitment efforts toward specialties that 
serve an ageing population and/or patients 
with specific lifestyle related conditions. 
We believe that the addition of highly 
skilled physicians remains essential to 
maintain our international standards of 
care, to meet our population’s needs, and 
to serve our growing number of in-patient 
and out-patients.
Greater Diversity of Services:
In 2014, we continued to expand our range 
of primary, secondary, and tertiary care 
services. We have carefully invested in 
areas of high acuity such as cardiac 
surgery, cardiology, orthopaedics, and 
nuclear medicine. We now provide plastic 
and reconstructive surgery, colorectal 
surgery, and laparoscopic gynaecology. 
Our ability to offer patients a full spectrum 
of integrated and advanced services, 
increasingly a ‘Continuum of Care,’ 
differentiates us from our competitors. 
This, combined with our internationally 
recognised standards of quality care and 
patient safety, continues to position Al 
Noor as a market leader.
Enhanced Patient Access:
Our financial performance was driven 
by several factors including acquisitions 
such as Al Madar and our commitment 
to increase capacity at our medical centres 
and hospitals to meet our communities’ 
demands for services.
We also continue to bolster our network of 
medical centres, opening three in 2014, 
expanding our hours for patients who need 
our services. We have strategically 
positioned new centres in residential areas 
that have been historically underserved and 
in newly populated communities where we 
can be ‘first-to-market.’ By providing primary 
care in residential areas, we capture the 
demand close to home and are able to refer 
patients through our extensive network of 
secondary and tertiary care.
Financial Performance:
Al Noor’s financial performance continues 
to be strong with 23% growth in revenue 
driven by 19.2% and 3.8% growth in 
out-patient and in-patient volume 
respectively. Underlying EBITDA increased 
by 18.5% to US$98.1m, but Underlying 
EBITDA margin decreased to 21.9%. This 
was primarily due to losses in start-up 
medical centres, medical staff wage inflation 
and increased corporate infrastructure.
Market Update
Competitive Environment
The healthcare delivery landscape in the 
Emirate of Abu Dhabi remains an attractive 
market for strong competitors and is 
expected to intensify as new providers open 
new facilities. We are watching a number of 
competitors with our strategy in mind and 
an eye toward their strength as a competitor 
or their potential as partner. For example, 
the Emirate of Abu Dhabi will see Cleveland 
Clinic Abu Dhabi, Danat Al Emarat Hospital, 
NMC’s Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital, 
NMC Royal Hospital at Khalifa City and 
Oasis Hospital all start operations in 2015. 
As a consequence, there will continue to 
be stiff competition for locally available 
medical staff and patients will have 
increased choices for medical services.
Should oil prices remain low, this could 
impact economic activity and the numbers 
of expatriate workers arriving or residing in 
the country, which could impact our 
performance due to the rate of population 
and growth. Additionally, government 
funded and subsidised health plants 
(Thiqa and Basic) could see budget 
pressures due to continued low oil prices. 
Providers and insurance companies who 
depend on the government for funding 
could see their budgets reduced due to 
lower oil prices.
However we believe that Al Noor’s 
reputation, geographic coverage, Corporate Governance
9 Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Financial Statements
Looking Ahead
I have assessed the key elements of the 
Company’s strategic plan set out at IPO 
and found it to contain the right areas of 
focus to continue Al Noor’s growth agenda. 
To move forward, we have developed a 
strategic framework to guide our initiatives 
which fall into three areas:
• Grow the Current Asset Base – 
this includes our continued plans for 
expansion of our facilities, enhancement 
and integration of our systems, adding 
facilities where appropriate, and 
capturing efficiencies. This will allow us to 
scale-up as a larger system of hospitals 
and medical centres.
• Expand the ‘Asset Portfolio’ this 
includes strengthening our “Continuum 
of Care” and diversifying services 
reaching beyond the existing clinical 
services at our hospitals and medical 
centres and positioning Al Noor with 
even greater presence and market 
leadership across Abu Dhabi.
• Expand into New Markets both within 
the UAE and beyond using a disciplined 
approach of M&A and greenfield 
projects.
This strategy will allow us to grow and build 
based on the strength of the Company, 
maintain our premier position in the 
immediate Abu Dhabi market and strengthen 
our Company infrastructure and ‘platform’ 
for growth in the wider UAE and beyond.
My Personal Commitment
We operate in one of the most dynamic 
healthcare environments in the Gulf region. 
We have a rapidly ageing demographic with 
an increasing incidence of lifestyle-related 
medical conditions such as diabetes and 
obesity. However, there are ‘gaps in 
healthcare services’ for some parts of our 
population and a serious lack of coordination 
providing access to appropriate care at the 
right time and in the right location. The UAE 
government is committed to encouraging 
the development of a healthcare industry 
that is comparable to the world’s most 
developed nations to address the country’s 
healthcare needs.
Al Noor is well positioned to respond to 
these needs, close the gaps and 
effectively deploy and demonstrate a new, 
more integrated healthcare delivery 
system. We have experienced tremendous 
growth over the last few years and while 
we have seen increasing competition in the 
region, we believe that Al Noor’s 
reputation, geographic coverage, 
commitment to quality and highly talented 
leadership teams combined with the 
investments we continue to make in our 
medical staff and infrastructure will allow 
us to continue to experience strong 
growth. Al Noor will continue to expand 
our services and locations to meet the 
needs of our patients and the communities 
we serve and we will continue to provide 
high-quality care in a compassionate and 
friendly way and in so doing we will meet 
the expectations of our shareholders.
This is an exciting time in Al Noor’s history. 
We have experienced tremendous growth 
over the last few years and will continue to 
expand our services and locations to meet 
the needs of our patients and the 
communities we serve. I am confident that 
working together as the Al Noor family, we 
will continue to provide high-quality care to 
our patients in a compassionate and 
friendly way and in so doing we will meet 
the expectations of our shareholders.
Ronald Lavater
Chief Executive Officer
“Our aim – and my commitment – is to meet the needs of our patients at all stages 
of their journey. As the leading private healthcare provider in the Emirate of Abu 
Dhabi, Al Noor will be the model of an integrated healthcare system. In turn, creating 
an integrated ‘Continuum of Care’ will provide a platform for additional growth and 
will also ensure the appropriate return on our investment.”
