 Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 4
Strategic Report
Ian Tyler
Non-Executive Chairman
“After last year’s outstanding 
performance, I am pleased to report 
that this year has been another 
strong year. Furthermore, it has been 
a year of transition, with the 
appointment of a new Chief 
Executive and two more changes in 
the executive team. This team has 
been tasked with continuing to build 
on the successes of the past which 
have led to Al Noor being the market 
leader in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 
We have set the bar high, yet feel 
confident that the new leadership 
can take Al Noor into the future and 
through ever greater focus on our 
patients and services, deliver value 
to shareholders.”
We continued to deliver well against our 
strategy in 2014. Our performance was 
driven by organic growth, fuelled by the 
expansion of services in our hospitals, and 
the opening of three new medical centres, 
with more planned to open in 2015. 
The acquisition of Gulf International 
Cancer Centre, the only private cancer 
centre in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, 
strategically positions the Company to 
deliver care in the rapidly-growing 
oncology segment. Additionally, 
management continued to integrate the 
acquisitions made in 2013.
We have seen new competing physical 
capacity coming into the market in 
Abu Dhabi during the year and we expect 
further new capacity in 2015. However, 
our leading market position in Abu Dhabi 
supported by continuing investment in 
facilities, physicians, and new service lines 
and our focus on medical quality puts us 
in a strong position to continue to look 
after our patients and grow shareholders’ 
value despite these long anticipated 
competitive challenges.
We continue to make the investments 
necessary to deliver growth. At least four 
additional medical centres are expected to 
become operational in 2015, including one 
in Sharjah, the third largest emirate of the 
UAE. Construction of the new 40-bed 
hospital in Al Ain is progressing and we 
anticipate it opening in 2016. We have 
continued to invest in the renewal of 
Khalifa Street Hospital, and we are 
planning the construction of a new building 
at Airport Road Hospital which is expected 
to double its capacity.
Chairman’s Statement
“The Company achieved good growth in 2014, 
with revenue increasing 23.0% to US$449.1m, 
and underlying EBITDA
1
 growing 18.5% to 
US$98.1m.”
US$98.1m
US$82.8m
US$70.8m
Underlying EBITDA
1
2014 2013 2012
1 Underlying EBITDA is calculated as underlying 
Results from Operating activities plus Depreciation 
and Amortisation. Underlying results from 
Operating activities can be obtained from the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other 
Comprehensive Income, while Depreciation and 
Amortisation can be referred to notes 4 and 5 on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Corporate Governance
5 Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Financial Statements
I wish to acknowledge all of our staff who 
have made 2014 a successful year. Through 
my tours of our facilities and my interactions 
with our people, I have come to learn that 
their commitment to our patients is a key 
driver of our success. On behalf of Al Noor, 
I thank them for their dedication to the 
patients who choose to entrust us with 
their care.
Al Noor owes its success to its leadership and 
in particular to Dr. Kassem Alom who has 
founded, developed and led the Company 
from its inception in 1985. I am delighted that 
Dr. Alom has agreed to remain on the Board 
as Deputy Chairman following the handover 
of executive leadership to Ronald Lavater. 
As the market continues to evolve, I feel 
confident that Ronald and his team will take 
the Company through its next phase of growth, 
and one that will continue to bring success 
to the Company and value to shareholders. 
Ian Tyler
Non-Executive Chairman
The business moved 
forward in all our 
operating regions.
è state of the art 40 bed hospital
è focus on Emiratis and high income expatriates
è scheduled to open in 2016
è 25 year lease
Al Noor will open a new hospital in Al Ain in 
2016, almost doubling our capacity in that city.
This new hospital will be positioned to cater to Emirati 
and high income patients, with an emphasis on surgery. 
The addition of this new hospital will help Al Noor capture 
and retain market share in Al Ain.
Development of Al Noor 
Hospital Civic Centre in 
Al Ain
è Delivering on strategy
