 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12
Q. Having previously worked with large  international diversified resources  companies with operations in many  countries, what is your impression of doing  business in Ukraine?
A. Ukraine compares favourably to many    of  the  places  I  have  worked  in  the  past.  Being  a developing economy does of course bring  with it many challenges,    but few that are unusual or unexpected.    It is worth remembering that many of the  world’s mines are in developing countries  and  Ukraine  is  considerably  more  developed  than many of these, especially as far as  infrastructure, engineering and  manufacturing  are concerned, sectors critical  to successful resource development. Our  Ukrainian employees are well educated and  trained and they have embraced our  programmes for establishing best practice  with enthusiasm.
The  media  has  made  much  of  the  political  instability  in  Ukraine  over  the  past  few  years,  but  this  seems  to  reflect  the  commitment  of  the  Ukrainian  people  to    a  strong  democratic  process.  During  my    time  with  our  Company,  this  so-called  instability  has  had  little  effect  on  our  existing  business,  but  it  has  meant  that  Ukraine  has  not  had  the  opportunity  to  develop  a  unified  and  transparent  economic  policy  for  export  oriented  resources  industries.  We  have  concerns  with  the  recent  above-inflation  increases  in  state-regulated  costs  such    as  electricity  and  rail  tariffs  and  we    look  forward  to  engaging  the  current  government  on  the  integrated  set  of  issues  that  relate  to  Ukraine’s  attractiveness  for  major  resources  industry  investment.  Q. As a single commodity ‘pure play’  company, Ferrexpo is relatively unusual    in the London market. What are the  advantages of this?
A. Investors frequently prefer to construct  their own portfolios, rather than hold  companies that are already diversified. For  investors seeking to balance their mining  company portfolios, Ferrexpo represents    a very clear exposure to iron ore.  Operationally, our stated iron ore growth  strategy  allows  us  to  focus  our  scarce  human  and capital resources on the business we  know best.
Q. What are your competitive advantages  over other iron ore producers? How do you  compete  with  the  big  producers,  such  as  the  Brazilians?
A.  Our  principal  competitive  advantages  are  our location and the size of our iron ore  resource. Most of our principal customers are  in Central and Eastern Europe and Ukraine.  These customers operate steel mills that  were constructed in many cases by the  former Soviet Union to use Ferrexpo pellets  and  extensive  infrastructure  was  established  to deliver these to the customers’ operating  sites.  For  the  majority  of  these  customers,  we  have  one  of  the  lowest  costs  of  supply  of  any  iron  ore  producer.  We  are  also  close  to  Turkey   and  the  Middle  East,  both  of  which  have  the  potential  to  become  attractive  markets  for  us  in  the  future.  The  Brazilian  producers  do  have  lower cash costs of production than we do,  principally due to the higher grades of their  resources. However, their shipping distances  to our major customers are substantially  greater than ours and ocean and rail freight  charges are a significant portion of the total  cost of pellet supply, thus ensuring that our  supply costs are highly competitive within  the markets we serve. We have also been  able to enhance our product quality and  supply reliability and are now regarded as a  preferred supplier by many of our major  customers.  Our  vast  undeveloped  resources  provide the base from which we can  aggressively grow our competitively priced  supply and we have demonstrated our  commitment to the investments required,  further enhancing our offering to our major  customers. We have developed our own  export  logistics  via  the  Black  Sea  and  supply  competitively into the strongly growing  markets of Asia.  Q. What is the outlook for iron ore pricing?  Mike Oppenheimer answers  
some of your questions
Q &A
Chief Executive Officer’s questions and answers
Company overview
Our principal competitive 
advantages are our location 
and the size of  
our iron ore resource. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
Q. Costs are rising across the mining industry.  How has Ferrexpo managed    to keep them down?
A.  Understandably,  our  operations  have  not  historically  had  the  strong  focus  on  costs  and  profitability that has now become the norm  worldwide. Two years ago    we instituted a ‘Business Improvement  Programme’, designed to introduce    best practice in our operations, thereby  increasing efficiency and productivity.  Results  achieved  to  date  have  been  notable.  We were able to keep costs flat    in nominal terms (implying significant real  reductions) for 2005, 2006 and the first half  of  2007.  This  success  is  partly  attributable  to  the fact that there were many areas where  substantial improvement could be achieved  very  quickly  by  implementing  practices  used  at leading mining operations around the  world. Ferrexpo is facing the same kind of  inflationary  cost  pressures  that  the  rest  of  the  industry  is  seeing.  Our  costs  rose  by  13.1%  in  the  second  half  of  2007,  and  are  likely  to  rise  again in 2008    as we face increasing cost inflation in  Ukraine.  We  have  plans  to  mitigate  these  cost  increases, however, and aggressive cost  management will remain a key focus of  management.
Q. How has Ferrexpo changed and  developed in the period since the Listing?
A. Compared with a year or two ago,  Ferrexpo is a completely transformed  Company. Preparation for Listing  necessitated many changes to the way the  business was run, in terms of governance,  transparency, operational efficiency, health  and safety, and financial management, to  name but a few. FPM is a world class  resource, and focus was put on introducing  world class management processes to  complement it. By the time of the Listing    in June, the turnaround process was well  under  way,  and  it  has  continued  in  leaps  and  bounds since then. The fact that we have  produced more, extended our plans for  expansion and delivered real term  reductions in costs is testament to that  change. Our Board has also developed    and  in  December  we  welcomed  Christopher  Mawe to the role of Chief Financial Officer  and  Oliver  Baring  as  our  Senior  Independent  Director. Ferrexpo    is rapidly becoming an organisation with    best practice operations and corporate  governance.  Q. What are the key benefits of a    London listing?
A. Our London Listing provides us with  access to one of the world’s largest capital  markets and the world financial centre for  the mining industry. Beyond that, it has  provided enormous benefits in terms of  transparency and credibility. The fact that  the Group has undergone the due diligence  process and been subjected to the  regulatory and investor scrutiny necessary  for a listing on the Main Market of the LSE  has  opened  many  doors  for  us.  Our  inclusion  in the FTSE 250 index in September further  enhanced our credibility in the eyes of  investors. Ferrexpo’s negotiations with  potential partners and even customers with  whom we are now dealing have benefited  enormously from the fact that we are listed.  The London Listing not only provided new  funds for the growth of our business but  continues to play a much wider role in  making all of our strategic plans possible.
Q.  What  is  your  ambition  for  the  Group,  and  where do you see Ferrexpo in five years’  time?
A. My ambition for the Group is to see    it become the primary iron ore supplier    in Europe and Ukraine, and a significant  player in the industry worldwide. We have  made great strides towards best practice,  and we are now ready to launch the  accelerated  development  of  our  vast  iron  ore  resource. In five years’ time, I expect  Ferrexpo will be halfway to becoming a    32mt per annum iron ore pellet producer.
  A. The current environment for iron ore    is  unprecedented.  Our  view  is  that  prices  will  continue to strengthen for at least the next  two  years,  as  the  world’s  iron  ore  producers  struggle  to  bring  more  capacity  on  stream  to  meet the growing demand from China and  other developing nations. The industry has  suffered under-investment in the past, and  what  we  are  now  seeing  is  market  tightness  while this state of affairs    is addressed.  Q.  How  is  the  market  for  iron  ore  developing  and what is the attraction of pellets?
A. The development of the market for    iron ore and pellets is a function of global  demand. At present, demand is increasing  rapidly,  and  iron  ore  producers  are  unable  to  supply sufficient product to meet this  demand. In addition, the supply of higher  quality ores, which can be fed directly    into iron making furnaces, is dwindling  worldwide. This has forced producers    to mine lower quality ores, and these  generally  need  to  be  beneficiated  to  improve  their Fe content, and often this involves the  production of pellets. Pellets are an  intermediate product, since they have  undergone some processing, so at times  when steel mills are running at full capacity,  they  offer  productivity  gains  to  blast  furnace  operators.  This  results  in  pellets  being  sold  at  a premium to the benchmark price for iron  ore fines. With    the continued strength of the world steel  market, we are of the view that pellets will  continue to attract a premium for ‘value    in use’ and improved productivity in blast  furnaces.  This  should  see  continued  support  for solid pellet price premiums    to sinter fines and lump ores.
Company overview
