 185.2
149.1
246.1
2007 2006 2005
EBITDA (US$million)
65%
EBITDA  up  65%  to  US$246.1m
Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08
At  the  start  of  the  year,  we  set  out  to  achieve  improvements in operating efficiency,  product quality and production growth. In  marketing,  we  aimed  to  become  the  iron  ore  supplier of choice in our key markets. We  have  succeeded  in  all  these  endeavours,  with  substantial  progress  being  made  at  both  our  existing operations and with our growth  projects.  We hold the exclusive licences to a world  class iron ore resource, uniquely positioned  close to our core markets and operating    in a global market environment that is  increasingly positive for our business.  Among the world’s iron ore producers,    we are very favourably positioned to take  advantage of the opportunities these  circumstances present and have made  significant progress in developing the    range of capabilities required to do so.
Our strategy is to maximise the value    of the Group through the accelerated  commercialisation of our extensive  undeveloped ore deposits, whilst ensuring  continuous production growth and cost  competitiveness in our existing operations.  The Board continues to refine and develop  this strategy, with an overarching focus on  management’s priorities to establish the  operational, financial and risk management  capabilities required for aggressive delivery  on our project pipeline.  Existing operations
In  2007,  the  goals  for  our  existing  operations  at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining (‘FPM’) centred  on continuing the demonstrated trend of  improvements across all areas of CSR and  especially  safety,  and  in  operating  efficiency,  product quality and production growth.
Considerable progress has been made    in establishing health, safety and  environmental  management  (‘HSE’)  systems  at FPM and a culture of continuous  improvement  in  HSE  performance  is  evident.  Sadly,  we  suffered  a  fatality  during  2007  and  a further two    in 2008 that highlighted the urgent need    for us to introduce best practice in  behavioural  safety.  We  have  now  secured  the  services  of  Du  Pont  Safety  Resources  which  has an outstanding record of success in  assisting  companies  to  move  towards  a  ‘zero  harm’ objective.  We succeeded in increasing the iron ore  output from our existing Gorishne –  Plavninskoye Lavrikovskoye (‘GPL ’) mine    by 9% and achieved a 6% increase in total  pellet output. This was accomplished with  only negligible production of pellets from  purchased concentrate, the margins being  prohibitively low. Production of our higher  quality  65%  Fe  pellets  from  our  own  ore  rose  by  19%.  Notwithstanding  the  increased  yield  of higher quality pellets    and the local inflationary environment, we  succeeded in containing increases in unit  production costs to some 15 percentage  points  below  Ukrainian  Producer  Price  Index  for 2007.  Chief Executive Officer’s review
Positioned for accelerated growth
Our  excellent  operational  and  financial  performance    in  2007  has  established  a  strong  foundation  for    the  accelerated  growth  plans  of  the  Group.  Our strategy explained
The Group’s principal aim is to enhance  
overall value for its shareholders, through  
a strategy of:
Company overview
EBITDA Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09
Growth projects
At the time of our Listing, we informed    the market that we planned to double our  production  by  2014.  We  proposed  to  do  this  by commissioning a second open-cut mine  immediately  to  the  north  of  our  existing  GPL  mine,  on  the  Yeristovskoye  deposit.  We  now  believe that further accelerated  development of the deposits    to the north of the GPL mine is feasible.  Studies  under  way  on  the  Yeristovskoye  and  Belanovskoye  deposits  indicate  that  they  can  be developed essentially in parallel. Work is  also proceeding on plans to develop  Galeschinskoye, the deposit to the north of  Belanovskoye.  Given  the  positive  conditions  prevailing in the global iron ore market and  our enhanced operational and project  execution  capability,  this  acceleration  will  be  of great benefit to Ferrexpo.  We are now contemplating a fourfold  increase  in  ore  production  within  the  next  10  years. We are planning to accelerate the  development of the Yeristovskoye mine by  one year, and then to develop a mine at    the Belanovskoye deposit soon thereafter.  First  ore  from  the  Yeristovskoye  mine  is  now  expected in 2011, with infrastructural and  site preparation operations already under  way. Six new draglines were ordered in  September to assist in the stripping    of Yeristovskoye at a cost of US$47m.    The Yeristovskoye mine is currently in  detailed feasibility study, and the Board  expects to consider final investment  commitment to the entire project in the  second half of 2008. Belanovskoye is  currently at the pre-feasibility study stage,  and development option studies for the  Galeschinskoye  deposit  are  now  in  progress.
We carried out extensive engineering    test work on the GPL mine in 2007, in    the course of fulfilling our commitment    to optimising our existing facilities. This    work revealed the potential to expand    and improve the mine beyond what was  thought feasible at the time of our Listing.    It culminated in our announcement in  November 2007 of the commencement    of a US$158m project to expand iron    ore production at the GPL mine to  approximately 32mtpa by late 2010 and    to extend the life of the mine at these  production levels to at least 2035. This  additional ore production will enable the  Group  to  take  advantage  of  currently  under-
utilised  processing  capacity  to  increase  high  quality pellet production    by approximately 15%, or 1.3mtpa. This  project will deliver meaningful and capital-
efficient growth as we continue to pursue  opportunities for extracting greater value  from our current operations.  We are well advanced with the engineering  of upgrades to the beneficiation and  pelletising plants at FPM that will enable    us to continue to improve product quality,  further reduce real unit operating costs and  ensure that we have a robust capability to  process the expanded production of ore  from the GPL pit for its now extended  economic life.
We  have  also  committed  to  an  intensification  of  our  Business  Improvement  Programme  at  FPM  to  accelerate  the  shift  towards  best-in-
class operational performance.
1
Increasing production of iron  
ore pellets by optimising and 
expanding the extraction  
of iron ore from its current  
open-cut mine on the  
Gorishne-Plavninskoye and 
Lavrikovskoye deposits.
2
Implementing best practice  
mine and facilities operations  
at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining (‘FPM’), 
enhancing efficiency  
and reducing operating costs.
3
Deriving substantial value from its 
significant unexploited iron ore 
reserves through the accelerated 
development of the nearby 
Yeristovskoye, Belanovskoye and 
Galeschinskoye deposits.
4
Leveraging its relationships  
with its existing global customer 
base to grow market share and 
support the Group’s increased 
production profile.
5
Increasing sales into growing 
markets for iron ore and extracting 
value through the Group’s 
advantageous logistical position 
and its enhanced operational 
capability.
6
Continuing to develop the Group’s 
logistical capabilities to match its 
growing production.
7
Managing the Group’s cost  
base by reducing its exposure  
to energy market volatility and 
other cost fluctuations.
8
Upgrading existing assets and 
procuring additional capital 
equipment to achieve target 
production levels in excess of 
32mtpa of pellets by 2018.
Company overview
Our key strategy
accelerate development    of reserves
grow production
expand customer base Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10
We  have  made  significant  progress  in  developing  the  capability  to  execute  these  expansion  projects.  A  new  operating  organisation,  separate  from  FPM,  is  being  established  to  develop  and  ultimately  operate  the  new  assets  and  key  senior  managers  have  been  appointed.  This  will  facilitate  the  immediate  introduction  of  best  practice  into  these  assets.  We  are  developing  our  mining  alliance  with  DTP  Terrasement  S.A.  (France)  (‘DTP’)  and  project  management  alliance  with  Worley  Parsons  Europe  Limited,  and  these  are  gathering  momentum  and  have  been  instrumental  in  enabling  us  to  aggressively  pursue  these  growth  projects  with  confidence.  Our growth projects are brownfield  expansions of our existing business and    as such represent substantially lower risk  additions  of  new  iron  ore  capacity  than  many  of the iron ore projects that have been  announced worldwide.  We  are  confident  in  our  capacity  to  fund  and  execute our growth plans from our own  resources. However, we are actively  discussing the mutual benefits of  investments in our growth assets with a  range of strategic investors to provide the  additional funding and execution capability  that  will  be  required  if  we  are  to  progress  our  plans  as  aggressively  as  possible  in  order  to  take advantage of the extremely favourable  outlook for our products.
Marketing
Our marketing strategy aims to develop a  portfolio of customers in a range of markets  that will enable us to achieve full value for  our products and provide sales volume  growth  commensurate  with  the  pace of  development  of  our  new  producing  assets.
We seek to maximise the proportion of our  production sold on long term contracts and  to strengthen our relationships with our key  customers, while also participating in a low  level of short term sales. We have had a  successful  2007,  with  a  major  new  long  term  contract  in  Ukraine,  as  well  as  the  extension  of  our  contract  with  VoestAlpine  AG  to  2015  and the extension of our contracts in  Slovakia and Serbia. At the end of 2007,  approximately 85% of our sales were made  under  long  term  supply  agreements,  most  of  which are directly or indirectly linked to  benchmark prices.
Sales  in  2007  reached  9,261kt  and  included  growth  in  our  highest  return  core  markets  of  Eastern Europe and Ukraine.    We  were  successful  in  establishing  long  term  business into Turkey, resuming sales to Russia  and we delivered our first trial cargo to  Japan.
Logistics
Significant progress was made in 2007.    We are committed to managing the fullest  extent of our delivery chain to assure our  customer service, to maximise overall    sales  margins  and  to  ensure  that  our  growth  plans are not frustrated by logistics  constraints. This will be achieved by  developing world class logistics  management as an integral function of our  sales and marketing activities. Selected  investments in barge, rail and port facilities  will also be required to overcome logistics  bottlenecks in Ukraine and Eastern    Europe and these are being contemplated  with key partners.  Our  investment  in  the  TIS-Ruda  ocean  vessel  terminal provides us with access    Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Company overview Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
to a private port on the Black Sea with    a capacity of 5mtpa. This facility has  significant  expansion  potential  and  provides  the base from which we can grow our  seaborne  trade  as  we  expand  our  producing  assets.  We  also  acquired  110  rail  cars  in  2007,  with a further 440 planned for delivery in  2008.  This  will  allow  us  to  benefit  from  lower  rail tariffs afforded to users of own rolling  stock  and  to  enhance  reliability.  We  also  have  major rail and water way studies under way  in Ukraine to determine future needs.
Market outlook
We  believe  that  the  existing  positive  market  environment  for  our  business  is  likely  to  continue  for  the  next  two  years  and  beyond.  This  is  fundamentally  due  to  sustained  strong  demand  for  steel  products  and  steel-making  raw  materials  not  only  in  the  developing  economies  of  China  and  India,  but  also  in  Eastern  Europe,  the  former  CIS  and  several  other  parts  of  the  world.  Strong  iron  ore  pricing  is  being  underpinned  by  a  slow  supply  response  from  the  mining  industry,  attributable  to  the  acute  execution  difficulties  being  experienced  by  many  of  the  projects  that  have  been  launched  to  meet  the  demand  surge,  the  need  to  develop  lower  quality  ore  bodies  and  massive  infrastructure  investments  required  for  many  of  the  new  greenfield  developments.  From a cost perspective, the industry has  witnessed  fundamental  structural  changes  in  the past year. The production cost of    the marginal tonne of iron ore has risen  substantially  and,  in  the  view  of  many  market  commentators,  permanently.  We  believe  that  this  rebasing  of  production  costs  provides  a  new floor for iron ore prices, below which  they are unlikely to fall.
People
Our strong performance in 2007 is a direct  result of the quality and dedication of our  people  and  their  enthusiastic  support  for  the  major change programmes that are now  under  way  across  all  facets  of  our  business.  We are committed to building the additional  capability required to implement our  aggressive growth plans in line with best  practice while containing costs and this is a  critical priority for our executive team. I  would like to thank all our employees and  our key partners for their ongoing support  and contribution.  Mike Oppenheimer
Chief Executive Officer
Company overview
