 Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 04
Performance in 2007
Notwithstanding the highest priority we
attach to the health and safety of our
people, we incurred a fatal injury at our
Poltava mine in November. Regrettably, in
2008, we have suffered a further two fatal
accidents at this site. These tragedies are
totally unacceptable and have provided a
rallying point for us to redouble our efforts
in continuing to introduce best practice in
health and safety management. We have
now appointed Du Pont Safety Resources  which  has  an  outstanding  record  of  success  in assisting companies to achieve a ‘zero  harm’ objective.
We increased production from our existing
mine for the sixth consecutive year. The
Group produced 9.1mt of iron ore pellets,
an increase of 6% compared to 2006.
Pellet production from our own produced
ore rose from 8.1mt in 2006 to 8.8mt in
2007, and we produced 19% more high
quality 65% Fe pellets from our own ore.
The increases in volume and product
quality resulted directly from continued
improvements in operating efficiency and
capital investment. The improvement in
production output and quality, along with
higher achieved sales prices resulting from
the increasingly favourable global iron ore
market and a relentless focus on operating
costs, enabled us to achieve significant
growth in both revenues and profits during
2007.
Revenues for 2007 were up 27.6% at  US$698.2m (2006: US$547.3m). Pre-tax profit  increased by 99% to US$160.8m (2006:  US$80.7m). Group EBITDA for the period  increased by 65% to US$246.1m (2006:  US$149.1m).
Market environment
The Group achieved an average price of
US$72.3 per tonne of pellets sold in 2007, a
17% increase over the average achieved
price  in  the  previous  year  (2006:  US$61.8  per  tonne). International iron ore benchmark  price  increases  in  2007  had  a  positive  effect  on  a  number  of  our  pellet  contracts.  We  were  successful in our continued efforts to  increase prices to appropriate levels on a  delivered,  ‘value  in  use’  basis  which  resulted  in  Group  average  price  outcomes  in  line  with  the international
benchmark. At year end, the Group was
selling approximately 85% of its output to
established clients on the basis of long
term supply agreements.
Globally, iron ore is currently in short
supply, driven by demand from developing
nations, in particular China and India, and
in our core Eastern European markets,
where per capita steel consumption
continues to grow in line with their strong
economic growth. This demand and supply
dynamic has led to the increases in
international benchmark prices outlined
above, and we anticipate further uplifts to
our product prices in the current year on
the back of continued demand growth. Our
customers forsee continuing solid demand
for steel in 2008.
The global steel industry has also been
subject to increased environmental limits
on sinter plant construction, a declining
global supply of high quality lump iron ore
and heightened productivity targets in steel
making. These factors are likely to result in
sustained higher consumption ratios of
pellets versus other forms of iron ore feed.
Chairman’s statement
An eventful and successful year
I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Ferrexpo  has  achieved  strong  operational  and  financial  performance  in  its  first  financial  reporting  period  as  a  publicly  listed  company.  The  Group  has  made  considerable  progress  towards  its   stated  objective  of  becoming  a  world-class  resources  company.  We  are  committed  to  best  practice  in  our  operations,  marketing  and  corporate  governance,  and  we  are  developing  a  significant  and  realistic  growth  programme.
2007 year in review
Company overview Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
Operations
In 2007 Ferrexpo retained its leading
position as the largest exporter of iron ore
pellets from the Ukraine. Overall pellet
production increased by 6% compared
with the previous year.
Market conditions made it uneconomical to  purchase iron ore concentrate from third  parties to take advantage of our excess  pelletising capacity. The increase in our  production was therefore accomplished  using almost entirely our own produced  concentrate, and was accompanied by a  further increase in the proportion of high  grade pellet production with an iron content  above 65%.
Our  cash  costs  of  production  for  2007  were
US$31.8 per tonne of pellets, as against
US$29.3 per tonne in 2006. This 8.6%
increase in production costs compares
favourably against Ukrainian inflation, which
saw a Producer Price Index increase of
23.3% for 2007. Ferrexpo maintained flat
nominal costs of production in 2005, 2006
and the first half of 2007, through
aggressive cost management and the
implementation of a Business Improvement
Programme at our Poltava mine. We are
continuing to successfully control costs.
High Ukrainian cost inflation in the second
half of the year meant we were not able to
achieve  the  material  real  reductions  in  costs
that we delivered in prior periods. This is
likely to remain a factor in Ukraine in the
short term and will remain a feature of the
industry worldwide in the medium term.
Marketing
We have had a very successful year in the
crucial areas of marketing and distribution,
having extended one of our largest long
term contracts to 2015, and initiated a
major new long term supply agreement in
Ukraine.
Logistics
To ensure access to world markets, the
TIS-Ruda ocean-vessel port facility was
commissioned in May 2007 and formally
recognised by the Port of Yuzhny in
October 2007. Ferrexpo owns 49% of TIS-
Ruda, the first privately owned dry bulk
commodity terminal in the former CIS, and
has access to its 5mtpa export capacity. To
enhance the reliability of supply, we are
also in the process of procuring up to 550
railcars for use on the state railway
infrastructure.
We continue to develop the Group’s  logistical capabilities throughout the  delivery chain to allow further expansion of  our global customer base in anticipation of  our growing production.
Investing activities
Operating cash flow for 2007 was
US$188.8m, an increase of 176% over the
previous year (2006: US$68.3m). Together  with the proceeds from our Listing in June,  this strong cash flow has allowed us to  initiate  investment  in  our  accelerated  growth  strategy. The Group invested US$104.4m in  continuing to develop and upgrade our  existing  operations  in  2007,  and  in  November  the Board committed a further US$158m in  development capital
expenditure for this purpose.
In addition to the expansion and
optimisation of the existing mine, we are
focusing our investment activities primarily
on our major growth projects. The Board
has approved a new accelerated business
plan which envisages the parallel
development of several of the Group’s
major expansion projects. The first of these
is Yeristovskoye, for which the Board
committed US$47m in September 2007 for
new draglines. This equipment will be used
to commence stripping operations at this  deposit in 2008.
May 2007
Ferrexpo issues a Notice  
of Intention to Float on the 
Regulatory News Service of  
the London Stock Exchange  
in anticipation of its impending 
listing.
June 2007
The Initial Public Offering of 
Ferrexpo plc on the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange was 
successfully priced at  
140p per share, raising a total of 
US$424 million, approximately half 
of which were primary proceeds.
July 2007
Ferrexpo announces the extension 
of its long term supply contract with 
VoestAlpine AG,  
its largest customer, to 2015.
September 2007
Ferrexpo included in the  
FTSE 250 index.
September 2007
Ferrexpo announces the first capital 
expenditure commitment on the 
Yeristovskoye mine development, 
the first of its  
major growth projects, investing 
US$47 million on six draglines.
September 2007
Ferrexpo announces its Interim 
Results for the first half of 2007, 
which reflected growth in 
production and achieved prices, and 
tight cost control.
November 2007
Ferrexpo announces the 
commitment of US$158 million to 
expand its existing mine and extend 
its productive life to 2032, a highly 
capital efficient project that will 
result in an approximately 15% 
uplift in production from existing 
operations by 2011.
December 2007
Ferrexpo announces the 
appointment of Chris Mawe as  
its Chief Financial Officer and Oliver 
Baring as its Senior Non-executive 
Director, together with other 
management role changes 
associated with its accelerated 
growth plans.
Company overview
The Group has made 
considerable progress towards 
its stated objective of 
becoming a world - class 
resources company. Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06
Management and people
We continued to strengthen our
management and operational capability.
We are pleased to welcome to the Board
Chris Mawe (previously Finance Director of
UK Coal plc) as Chief Financial Officer and
Oliver Baring (Chairman of Mwana Africa
plc) as Senior Independent Non-executive
Director.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank
all of our management and staff, both at
our operations and elsewhere in the Group,
for their hard work and commitment
throughout the year. The significant
progress which the Group has made in
2007 would not have been possible without
their enthusiasm and dedication.
Corporate governance and social
responsibility
I am pleased to report that the Group has
achieved substantial compliance with the
UK Combined Code on Corporate
Governance within six months of its listing
on the London Stock Exchange, and we
continue to make further progress in line
with best practice. The Board remains
firmly committed to delivering high
standards of corporate governance in
the future.
The Board has constituted a Corporate
Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Committee,
chaired by our Chief Executive, to monitor
the management of the Group’s health,
safety, environmental and community
programmes. CSR remains a priority and
we are continuing to develop further
initiatives to institutionalise safety
conscious behaviour, actively engage with
local communities and to minimise our
impact on the environment.
Outlook
The current year has started well with
substantial increases in global iron ore
prices being announced. This has created
a very positive environment for the annual
price negotiations with our major
customers and we expect the global
pricing trend to flow through to our new
contract prices from 1 April 2008.
Production continues to increase
incrementally as our improvement
programmes come into effect. Ukrainian
cost inflation was high in 2007 and is set to
continue in 2008, with the result that we do
face cost increases in the coming year,
particularly with regard to State regulated
cost inputs. The Directors believe that the
Group will continue to grow its revenues
and profits in 2008.
Chairman’s statement continued
Company overview
Our key aim
is to realise the potential    of our unique resource  Ferrexpo plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07
Dividend
The Directors intend to pursue a dividend
policy consistent with the Group’s growth
profile. This will reflect the investment the
Group is making to drive future growth and
the amount of cash generated by the
existing operations, while maintaining a
prudent level of dividend cover. The
Directors recommend a dividend in respect
of profits generated for the Ferrexpo Group
in  2007  of  3.2  US  cents  per  Ordinary  Share  for  payment  on  19  May  2008  to  shareholders  on  the register at the close of business on 18  April 2008. The dividend will be paid in UK  pounds sterling.
Michael Abrahams CBE DL
Chairman
Company overview
Production continues  
to increase incrementally as 
our improvement 
programmes come  
into effect.
