 9
Chief Executive’s Statement
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006
Financial Performance
2006 full year operating proﬁts from
continuing operations before restructuring
costs and non-recurring items at £27.5
million represents another major decline.
However, the robust restructuring actions
initiated during the year have started to show
an impact. Operating margins improved in
the second half compared to the ﬁrst half by
approximately 
1
⁄ 2% after adjusting for the
impact of a power outage at our Old Hickory
Site in Tennessee in August and the impact
of the additional head ofﬁce costs required
to support the demerged entity.
Our industrial area accounted for £203.2
million in sales in 2006, representing an
increase of 5.0% compared to 2005 
(2005: £193.5 million). Margins at 7.2%
represented a decline of 3.8 percentage
points over 2005 as very high raw material
and utility prices coupled with difﬁcult
markets in European geotextiles and US
construction and pricing pressure in fabric
softener sheet impacted the business. In
hygiene, sales of £381.5 million declined
by £28.3 million (7%). Margins were 3.8%,
a 3.2 percentage points reduction on 2005,
also affected by high input costs and
competitive pressures.
Turnaround
We have taken a number of steps to
turnaround the performance of the
business. These included the closure of
four uncompetitive spunbond lines in the
USA, the decommissioning and relocation
of two lines at the Toronto site and a
restructuring at our UK geotextile business.
We also grew organically, offsetting some 
of the effect of the hygiene closures. 
Our hygiene spunbond capacity in 
Mexico doubled with the relocation of one
of our Toronto lines. There was major
expansion of industrial sites in Sao Paulo,
Brazil and Berlin, Germany and the
installation of a long-awaited polyester
recycling plant at our largest production site
at Old Hickory, Tennessee in the USA. 
The world’s largest hygiene spunbond line
for Fiberweb’s Swedish site was also
authorised. Total investment of around
£51.4 million during 2006 is creating the
capability for growth and increased
competitiveness. We started to see some 
of the beneﬁts in the second half, despite
raw material prices which were on average
2% higher.
We recognise that further tough actions 
are required.
I AM DELIGHTED TO REPORT FOR THE FIRST TIME AS CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OF AN INDEPENDENTLY LISTED FIBERWEB PLC AS
WE EMBARK ON OUR TURNAROUND PROGRAMME.
“Previously, focus had been on investing in higher-growth
hygiene areas, speciﬁcally consumer and baby wipes and
limiting investment in the core spunbond business.
Going forward, focus will be on growing the industrial
business globally, improving the competitiveness of
attractive hygiene businesses and restructuring or exiting
unattractive hygiene businesses.”
DANIEL DAYAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 10
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
FIBERWEB PLC
2006 Overview
2006 was a very challenging and eventful
year for Fiberweb. Analysis carried out in
2006 indicates that our strongest
businesses include most of our industrial
specialities area and certain parts of our
hygiene businesses. Our weaker businesses
include hygiene wipes in Europe and North
America, our cotton bleaching business in
the USA and our uncompetitive spunbond
lines.
In North America industrial, the ﬁrst half of
2006 saw continued growth in housewrap
for residential construction but the
downturn in the US residential housing
market in the second half of 2006 had an
adverse impact on performance.
Notwithstanding this, our leading Typar
TM
brand continued to gain market share and
we accelerated our drive to increase our
presence in attractive regional markets such
as the south-east and south-west of the
USA where Typar
TM
has traditionally had only
a very small position.
Sales of ﬁltration media under the Reemay
TM
brand for pool and spa applications were
strong, following signiﬁcant improvements in
customer service at the Old Hickory facility.
In other ﬁltration applications, good sales
progress was made. The conversion of a
redundant hygiene pilot line in Simpsonville,
South Carolina to produce speciality
melt-blown ﬁltration media will enable us to
serve our customers with a broader range of
single-layer and composite products.
Other important areas of the Americas
industrial business performed well, with
sales of fabric softener sheet remaining
strong and the recovery in sales of graphic
arts products continuing with improved
sales focus.
In Europe, sales grew in the rooﬁng area
both organically and through the acquisition
of Blowitexin Germany in April. The
acquisition has extended our product 
range, brand portfolio and distribution
relationships. Other industrial fabric sales 
in Europe, primarily for medical and
agricultural applications, were stable.
In Brazil, Bidim
TM
continued to develop its
premier position, but the strength of the
Brazilian real against the US dollar reduced
shoe production volumes, making
competitive products from China more
attractive. In addition, our rooﬁng business
suffered as a result of increased imports
from Europe, long-standing technical
weaknesses with our product and the
relative exchange rates. The technical issues
are being dealt with urgently, utilising global
technical resources from within Fiberweb.
At the end of 2006, the rooﬁng business
looks well set up for the year to come.
2006 marked a watershed for our hygiene
business. Long-standing competitive
disadvantages in North America were 
dealt with robustly through closures and a
major reinvestment programme was
initiated in Europe. Reinvestment plans for
North America are under consideration. 
As mentioned above, the hygiene 
business comprises both stronger and
weaker portions. The stronger part
comprises airlaid for feminine care
applications in panty liners, spunbond 
for baby diapers and other similar products
and some speciality areas such as resin-
bonded nonwovens for certain baby 
diaper components. Weaker hygiene
includes wipes, certain spunbond assets
that are not competitive in today’s
demanding markets, a carded product
business in the USA and the cotton
bleaching business.
Margins remained relatively attractive in 
the strong segments, especially in airlaid
where Fiberweb’s premier position in the
Asian region, stable contracts and cost
savings protected pricing.
In the weaker segments, the cost increases
and the pricing impact of new competitor
capacity entering the market drove several
spunbond lines into loss. These lines for the
most part have now been closed. In wipes,
growing over-capacity and continued
“2007 WILL BE A CHALLENGING YEAR BUT WE BELIEVE THAT
OUR NEW STRATEGY AND TURNAROUND PROGRAMME WILL
DELIVER IMPROVED RESULTS FOR FIBERWEB.” 11
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006
commoditisation in the market have led to
extreme pressure on pricing and this
business is operating at around break-even.
Various options to improve the cost base of
the business, to innovate products that can
earn an acceptable and sustainable return
or to ﬁnd ways of reducing over-capacity in
the industry are being explored urgently.
Our target is to achieve double-digit margins
in the medium-term. We believe that the
investments that will be coming on-stream in
2007 will move us further in this direction.
Our Business Review on pages 12 to 29 
sets out in more detail how we have
performed in 2006.
Looking Ahead
Fiberweb’s strategy has been under
continuous review during the second half of
2005 and most of 2006, as a response to
poor ﬁnancial results and the separation
process from BBA. Previously, focus had
been on investing in higher-growth hygiene
areas, speciﬁcally consumer and baby
wipes, limiting investment in the hygiene
and industrial spunbond businesses. Going
forward, focus will be on growing the
industrial business globally, improving the
competitiveness of attractive hygiene
businesses and restructuring or exiting
unattractive hygiene businesses. In industrial,
we believe that there is a good opportunity
to differentiate our offering to our
customers through superior technology,
innovation, branding and customer service.
In hygiene, we intend to improve our cost
position, especially in the area of spunbond
products, primarily for baby diaper
applications. We also intend to build on 
our strong market position in airlaid in the
Asian market.
Our People
Every employee at Fiberweb is valued 
and has a key role to play. We are working
hard on introducing meaningful
assessment, development and incentive
programmes tailored to the needs of our
people and businesses and recognise that
we have many areas to improve. However, 
I have been very impressed by the
professionalism and commitment of 
so many Fiberweb people and by their
enthusiasm to play their part in our
recovery. We are a very international
business and enjoy and beneﬁt from a 
wide variety of cultures, backgrounds, 
skills and experiences.
Appreciation
I would like to express thanks to all of
Fiberweb’s customers and suppliers for their
support as we begin our independent
existence. I would especially like to thank all
Fiberweb employees for their commitment,
loyalty and unstinting efforts to serve
customers better as we have gone through a
lengthy period of immense uncertainty for all
and signiﬁcant redundancies on various sites.
I would also like to thank Michael Harper 
and Andrew Wood, respectively Executive
Chairman and Finance Director of BBA
Aviation plc, who were highly supportive
during the demerger process, despite the
performance issues we were facing. In
particular, they were instrumental in
securing the authorisation of the crucial and
substantial restructuring and investment
projects Fiberweb initiated during 2006.
2007 will be a challenging year but we
believe that our new strategy and turnaround
programme will deliver improved results 
for Fiberweb.
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive
26 February 2007
In Europe, sales grew in the rooﬁng area both organically and through the
acquisition of Blowitexin Germany in April. The acquisition has extended our
product range, brand portfolio and distribution relationships.
