 2
FIBERWEB PLC
Fiberweb manufactures a diverse range of nonwoven products for
the highly fragmented industrial market. We are one of the leading
suppliers globally for pool & spa ﬁltration under the well known
Reemay
TM
brand. In the construction industry, our strong and
established Typar
TM
/T ekton
TM
products are used in housewrap, rooﬁng
and geotextile applications amongst others. Fiberweb continues to
provide superior quality products for the more technically demanding
and niche areas in fabric softener sheets and graphic arts. Fiberweb’s
sustained developmental efforts have paved the way for the launch
of several new products in print media and other segments. 
Industrial 
Fiberweb is one of the world’s largest and leading suppliers of high-performance, speciality nonwoven fabrics. 
Nonwoven materials developed, manufactured and marketed by Fiberweb are used in a wide variety of
everyday products such as ﬁlters, wipes, baby diapers, fabric softener, construction products and protective
clothing to name only a few. With vast experience in its ﬁeld and a strong international presence, Fiberweb
has long been regarded as a technological innovator with a strong portfolio of intellectual property, a
preferred partner for customers focused on high-quality and reliable supply and as a consistent investor in
a global network of competitive manufacturing assets. 
Housewrap For residential and commercial
applications nothing is proven to perform
better than Fiberweb’s well known Typar
TM
Weather Protection Systems
Filtration Fiberweb manufactures
advanced ﬁltration media under the
established Reemay
TM
brand for a variety
of applications in ﬁltration, separation
and absorption
Rooﬁng Typar
TM
roofwrap30 and
Tekton
TM
are light weight, water resistant,
polymeric roof underlayments that
provide superior protection. Blowitex
specialises in laminates and composites
for niche applications
Fabric softener sheets North American
consumers tend to use impregnated fabric
softener sheets in a tumble drier. Fiberweb 
is a leading supplier for this technically
demanding application
Geosynthetics Specialist manufacturer of
geotextiles under leading brands such as
Terram
TM
and Bidim
TM
used in a variety of
applications including drainage, ﬁltration,
separation and other industrial uses
Industrial wipes Fiberweb makes a
multitude of top quality, high-performance
products for graphic arts and general wipes
application
Landscape Long term guaranteed
Biobarrier
TM
products are made of durable
geotextile fabric with permanently attached
nodules containing triﬂuralin that prevent
root tip cell division
Industrial specialities Fiberweb produces
a diverse range of other products in
packaging, shoes and home furnishing
applications. We also manufacture Keeta
TM
–
high-visibility clothing
Fiberweb’s scale, global reach, range of technology and strong
market positions in a broad range of specialised areas sets it apart
from many of its competitors. Fiberweb continually improves and
expands the attributes of its products to increase their performance
for its customers and ultimately the end user.
Leading market positions 
and technologies
Our Operations at a Glance Hygiene
Baby diapers Fiberweb produces top sheet,
back sheet, barrier leg cuff and core cover
Feminine hygiene Differentiated technology
to make acquisition distribution layer for
feminine hygiene products
Adult incontinence New generation products
like Softspan
TM
, with its exceptional softness
and elongation properties, make it extremely
suitable for adult incontinence applications
Medical products Fiberweb offers nonwoven
fabrics for conversion into medical products.
Our line of fabrics provides comfort, strength
and is engineered to deliver added beneﬁts
such as protection and stability to sterilisation 
Wipes With a wide range of available
technologies, Fiberweb offers solutions in
consumer, homecare, baby and industrial wipes
Fiberweb is a global leader in tailored nonwoven fabric solutions
for baby and adult care, feminine hygiene, consumer wipes,
medical and protective apparel segments.
We offer a wide range of nonwoven technologies tailored to meet
the speciﬁc needs of each and every customer. Today, we are
helping our customers develop products which are lighter, better
ﬁtting, more comfortable, more aesthetic and have superior
absorbent properties. 
Each family of products offers a unique set of properties from softness,
strength, extensibility, absorbency, or repellency which provides
function, feel and ﬁt in every hygiene-nonwoven that we produce. Our
fabrics can be engineered to deliver added beneﬁts such as texture,
colour, barrier protection, breathability and stability to sterilisation. 
Fiberweb leads the advancement of hygiene nonwovens
technologies using our global network and innovative research and
development capabilities to provide our customers with state-of-
the-art fabrics that ultimately fulﬁll the needs of the end user. 
Protective apparel Protective apparel fabrics
created to deliver comfort in use with high
barrier performance and breathability 
3
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2006
Fiberweb’s emphasis on innovation, quality and
service has helped develop a strong long-standing
relationship with customers who, themselves are
leaders in their ﬁeld.
Long-term customer
relationships
Fiberweb’s global Research and Development centre is located in Germany
with another large research facility in the US. Highly experienced scientists
and technicians beneﬁt from a number of pilot lines and sophisticated
analytical laboratories. Research and Development (“R&D”) focuses on
upstream product and process development and Technical Services (“TS”),
focuses on incremental product and process improvement.
Research and 
Development
