 8
Chief Executive’s Review
FIBERWEB PLC
2007 was a year of highs and lows.
Following successes in delivering a
major P&G contract shortly after
demerger, the sale of Hygiene Wipes
and encouraging sales and proﬁt
growth in our non-US Industrial
businesses, the emergence of
signiﬁcant shortcomings in the large
Americas Industrial business was a
major disappointment. These issues
combined with volume shortfalls in
certain Hygiene plants and further
raw material cost increases, led us 
to make two proﬁt warnings during
the year in April and September . 
We responded by strengthening
management and processes,
increasing efﬁciency and productivity
and reducing headcount and costs
within the Group, including head
ofﬁce. 2007’s poor margins led to a
reduction in expectations of future
performance, which have led to a
£95.0 million charge for impairments
and asset write downs. 
Financial Performance
2007 full year operating proﬁts from
continuing operations before restructuring
costs and non-recurring items at £13.8
million represent another signiﬁcant
decline. However, a particularly weak ﬁrst
half was followed by a degree of recovery
in the second half as restructuring and
investment actions started to demonstrate
an impact. Operating margins improved in
the second half compared to the ﬁrst half 
by 0.4 percentage points, despite steadily
increasing raw material costs during the
second half.
The successful sale of the Hygiene Wipes
and cotton bleaching businesses further
shifted Fiberweb’s portfolio towards the
more differentiated Industrial segments,
which now form 42.5% of our total sales
and 51.7% of our operating proﬁt before
central costs. It is pleasing to note the 
strong performance from the non-US
Industrial businesses, notably Terram
TM 
in the UK, Bidim
TM
in Brazil and the
European rooﬁng businesses, which
together grew sales by 16% and operating
proﬁt by 55% (at constant currency), and
achieved an operating proﬁt margin of
7.5%. The poor performance of Americas
Industrial was a surprise and
disappointment, with full year operating
margins of only 4.0% (2006: 8.2%). 
Poor ﬁrst quarter trading led to a detailed
investigation which exposed poor
management information, weak stock 
and margin management practices, and a
decline in manufacturing performance.
Corrective actions were initiated, which
though taking longer than originally
expected to produce an impact, did lead to
an improvement in margins in the second
half to 5.9% from 2.2% in the ﬁrst half.
The Hygiene businesses suffered from
increasing polypropylene raw material
prices and the failure of certain large
customers to deliver promised volumes.
Underlying operating margins of 4.3% in
the ﬁrst half declined further to 3.1% in
the second half. Cost reductions in
overhead and manufacturing areas were
actively pursued to partially mitigate the
effects of the adverse pricing and cost
environment.
Debt was cut during the year by £27.7
million to £137.6 million. Trading cash 
ﬂow of £43.8 million (2006: £51.5 million)
before non-recurring cash costs of £6.9
million (2006: £7.5 million) and divestment
proceeds of £42.0 million (2006: £5.4
million) funded capital investment of £32.6
million (2006: 48.4 million), net interest
payments of £10.4 million (£7.6 million)
and dividends of £7.0 million (2006: £5.5
million – paid to BBA Group entities). 
Tight control of working capital was
maintained, with a net inﬂow of £2.4
million (2006: outﬂow of £3.1 million).
2007 Overview
Industrial
In North America Industrial, the continuing
downturn in the residential construction 
market created a negative backdrop for
the construction materials business,
especially landscape fabrics.
Notwithstanding this, sales volumes of
Typar
TM
, our leading housewrap brand,
grew and revenues remained strong
thanks to continued market share gain 
and a buoyant business in Canada, which
beneﬁts from continued steady demand
and a strong Canadian Dollar enabling
more robust pricing than in the US. 
We continue to accelerate our drive to
expand our geographic presence in this
market and to broaden our product range
and further differentiate our offering.
During the year, we launched MetroWrap,
a new product tailored to the needs of
commercial buildings and StormWrap, a
product for use in hurricane-prone areas.
Both of these products have received
positive customer feedback.
Sales of ﬁltration media under the 
Reemay
TM
brand for pool and spa
applications were strong in general,
though the weakness in housing markets
began to impact the pool and spa market
towards the end of the year . Other ﬁltration
areas also demonstrated some growth,
and successful product development
during 2007 in pool and spa, and in air
ﬁltration applications are expected to
support further growth. 
Other important areas of the Americas
Industrial business performed well, with
sales of fabric softener sheet remaining
strong and the recovery in sales of graphic
arts products continuing with improved
sales focus.
The poor margins we saw in this 
business were partly due to price erosion
and a failure to react sufﬁciently quickly 
to raw material cost increases. Margin
control was found to be poor and a
programme of re-costing and reviewing
the pricing of all products was initiated.
This took signiﬁcantly longer to complete
than originally expected, but ﬁnally price
increases were implemented on many of
the American Industrial products during
the fourth quarter . 9
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
On the manufacturing side of this
business, the successful commissioning of
the polyester recycling plant at our largest
site at Old Hickory, Tennessee was the
highlight. This facility enables us to recycle
almost 100% of our polyester fabric waste,
reducing both the ﬁnancial and
environmental costs of our operations.
Despite lower than expected margins
during the year, due to delays in obtaining
customer qualiﬁcations for products
containing recycled polymer, qualiﬁcations
had been obtained by the end of October,
allowing the recycling plant to operate at
full throughput.
Yields were poor at the start of the year 
at Old Hickory, due to a lack of focus on
manufacturing excellence and to a change
in the production planning methodology.
The unintended consequences of these
changes included signiﬁcantly higher
scrap and lost production time on limited
capacity machines. As we corrected these
practices following the management
changes in April, margins began to
recover .
In Europe, sales grew in rooﬁng as the
2006 acquisition of Blowitex continued to
be successful and we saw limited growth
in speciality polyethylene-based 
nonwoven products from our Berlin
facility. New product development in
rooﬁng, seeking to improve the resistance
of under-tile products to UV radiation, 
was successful, with new polyethylene-
based products expected to be launched
during 2008.
In Brazil, Bidim
TM
continued to develop its
premier position, but the strength of the
Brazilian Real against the US dollar
reduced shoe production volumes, making
competitive products from China more
attractive and also stimulating increased
imports of European rooﬁng materials.
Commercial initiatives to strengthen
customer relationships, plus technical
support to reduce the cost of various
products, enabled Bidim
TM
to grow both
sales by 15%, and proﬁt by 3%, for another
successful year overall.
Hygiene
2007 was a disappointing year in Hygiene.
In North America, the impact of heavy
restructuring in 2006 was apparent, with
an improvement in margin from lower
sales, while in Europe, increased
competitive pressure hit both volumes 
and margins. In both regions, higher raw
material prices impacted margins in the
second half, as did the impact of price
concessions made as part of securing the
large spunbond agreement with Procter 
& Gamble announced in December 2006.
Having been a strong performer for
several years, airlaid was a weaker
performer in 2007 due almost entirely to a
loss of market share by a large customer
in Asia, with a knock on impact on our
plant utilisation at Tianjin, China.
The major investments made in 2006 in
Hygiene enjoyed mixed fortunes. The
large spunbond line in Sweden was
completed and commissioned as planned.
It will be a major contributor during 2008.
The airlaid line in Italy was completed
almost nine months late by the prime
contractor and is still not operating to
speciﬁcation. It remains a priority
objective to bring the plant to full scale
operation as early as possible in 2008.
Our Business Review on pages 12 to 25
sets out in more detail how we have
performed in 2007.
Our People
We seek to motivate every employee at
Fiberweb to give of their best and we
value their contribution. During a period
when we have been reducing headcount
and increasing productivity, it demands 
a great deal of commitment and loyalty
from our employees to focus on serving
customers and optimising performance.
We continue to introduce meaningful
assessment, development and 
incentive programmes tailored to the
needs of our people and businesses. 
We are a very international business and
enjoy and beneﬁt from a wide variety of
cultures, backgrounds, skills and
experiences.
Appreciation
I would like to express thanks to all of
Fiberweb’s customers and suppliers for
their continued support. I would especially
like to thank all Fiberweb employees for
their commitment, loyalty and unstinting
efforts to serve customers better as we
have gone through a highly volatile and
challenging year .
Outlook
We expect Industrial to beneﬁt from
continued recovery in the Americas,
building on the stronger second half of
2007, and expect our non-US businesses
to continue to beneﬁt from new products
and enhanced capacity. Hygiene remains
subject to a highly competitive market and
to raw material price pressures. However,
the continued focus on proﬁtable product
lines, combined with a continuing
reduction in our cost base, should ensure
a steady improvement in competitiveness.
Cash ﬂow and debt reduction remain a
priority for management. We will continue
to review our portfolio of businesses to
ensure we can maximise their value for
shareholders.
Whilst we are still implementing our
turnaround programme and despite a
difﬁcult macro-economic outlook, the
actions taken during 2007 have created a
solid foundation for progress in 2008.
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive
26 February 2008
WHILST WE ARE STILL IMPLEMENTING OUR TURNAROUND PROGRAMME AND
DESPITE A DIFFICULT MACRO-ECONOMIC OUTLOOK, THE ACTIONS TAKEN
DURING 2007 HAVE CREATED A SOLID FOUNDATION FOR PROGRESS IN 2008.
