 6
Chairman’s Statement
FIBERWEB PLC
During the year, Fiberweb continued to
implement the turnaround strategy laid
out at the time of demerger . The portfolio
was further simpliﬁed with the successful
sale of the international Hygiene Wipes
business and the small cotton bleaching
business based in Griswoldville,
Massachusetts. The rationalisation of
uncompetitive assets continued with the
closure of the polyester fabric production
site at Gray Court, South Carolina, and
further reductions in headcount
amounting to around 6% of the workforce
excluding divestments.
The restructuring undertaken from the
end of March following the announcement
of the Hygiene Wipes sale exposed
problems in the Industrial business in the
US. These concerned primarily margin
management and manufacturing
performance, and had a material impact
on performance during the rest of the
year, offsetting continuing progress in
Fiberweb’s Industrial businesses outside
the US. Changes in management were
swiftly introduced and, towards the end 
of the year, steady margin recovery 
was achieved.
In general, the Hygiene businesses
suffered during 2007 from a continuation 
of the difﬁcult trading environment that
has prevailed for several years, with high
and increasing raw material prices, and
additional competitive pressures,
especially in Europe. Fiberweb responded
to these challenges with the investment
programme outlined at the time of the
demerger, efﬁciency improvements, and
through a continued focus on its higher
margin speciality products. The on-time
and on-budget commissioning of a major
new spunbond line in Sweden was the
highlight of this programme, and this plant
promises to deliver strong sales and proﬁt
growth in 2008. The new airlaid line in
Italy, however, proved more problematic,
with late delivery and signiﬁcant
commissioning issues, which are expected
to be resolved early in 2008. The major
new spunbond contract signed with
Fiberweb’s largest customer, Procter &
Gamble, at the end of 2006, was
implemented during the year . Despite this,
unexpected volume shortfalls in several
areas undermined plans to optimise asset
utilisation, and negatively impacted
margins. The rapid increase in oil prices
during the second half of 2007 began to
feed through to Fiberweb’s polymer raw
materials and energy costs later in the
year, also adding to margin pressures.
Despite these setbacks, the actions 
put in place during 2006 and 2007 are
expected to lead to an improvement in
Fiberweb’s competitive position in the long
term and we have sought to strengthen
management at all levels to deliver on the
promise to turnaround the recent history
of declining margins and proﬁtability. 
The percentage improvement in margins
seen in the second half compared to the
ﬁrst half is an indication that progress is
being made.
2007 was a difﬁcult year for
the newly independent
Fiberweb. Despite initial
success in delivering a
number of the objectives laid
out at the demerger of the
Company from BBA Group in
November 2006, the business
struggled to meet several
major challenges, both
internal and external. We did
not meet our objective of
creating shareholder value or
of delivering a sustainable
turnaround through the year .
Your Board is determined 
to implement plans to
improve this performance 
in the year to come. 7
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
Financial Results
The ﬁnancial results for 2007 overall are
disappointing. Continuing sales (excluding
sales from businesses divested during the
year) decreased by £26.3 million (5.3%) to
£473.6 million and continuing underlying
operating proﬁt reduced by £13.3 million
(49.1%) to £13.8 million. Net cashﬂow
from operating activities was positive at
£36.9 million (2006: £44.0 million), before
signiﬁcant capital investment of £32.6
million (2006: £48.4 million). The low
return on invested capital of 2.9% (2006:
4.7%) remains signiﬁcantly below
Fiberweb’s cost of capital and indicates
the scale of the task ahead. Debt was
reduced by £27.7 million to £137.6 million
at the end of the year (2006: £165.3
million), through the impact of disposals
and tight control of working capital. 
In constant currency terms, debt would
have been £132.9 million at the end of the
year, a reduction of £32.4 million. 
Dividends
Subject to approval by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
2 May 2008, the directors recommend a
ﬁnal dividend of 2.50 pence per share (2006:
3.95 pence). If approved, the dividend will
be payable on 27 May 2008 to shareholders
on the register at 25 April 2008.
The Board and Management
The Board has remained unchanged
during the year and has addressed the
issues facing the Company with
determination and commitment. 
The departure of Simon Bowles as Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer was announced in early
December and he was replaced on 
1 February 2008 by Daniel Abrams, who
brings a broad range of operational,
ﬁnancial and public company expertise to
your Board. Fiberweb now has in place a
strong executive team with considerable
experience in the nonwovens sector and
international manufacturing.
Possible Offer by Avgol
On 21 January 2008 the Company
announced that it was in discussions with
Avgol Industries 1953 Limited (“Avgol”)
regarding a possible offer for Fiberweb.
The proposed offer price is 100p per
Fiberweb share in cash, plus the right to
receive and retain a further dividend for
the year ended 31 December 2007 of 2.50
pence per share. Depending on the timing
of any Avgol offer, a 2.50 pence per share
dividend will either be recommended by
the directors as a ﬁnal dividend for 2007
as mentioned above or will be paid as a
further dividend for 2007 as part of any
offer, in which case no ﬁnal dividend should
be expected. Due diligence is proceeding
and we will keep shareholders informed
as to the progress of any possible offer .
For the avoidance of doubt, there can be
no certainty that any offer will be made 
for the Company.
Prospects
Percentage sales and proﬁt growth in the
Industrial businesses outside the US is
encouraging. Recovering the margin
position in the large US industrial
business remains a key priority and
progress is being made. 
Your Board continues to believe that
Fiberweb’s best prospects lie in exploiting
its strong brand and market positions in
important segments of the large and
expanding market for industrial nonwoven
fabrics, particularly in ﬁltration and
speciality construction segments.
There are also attractive segments within
the hygiene market, where scale,
manufacturing excellence and innovation
can produce competitive advantage, 
in particular in spunbond fabrics for baby
diaper and feminine care applications. 
The Group’s investment programme
focuses on delivering competitive,
differentiated products to serve these
segments.
Your Board believes that the successful
implementation of the turnaround and the
strategy outlined above is the right one for
the business and it has taken decisive
initial action. The margin improvement in
the second half of 2007 is an important
and encouraging ﬁrst step.
Malcolm Coster
Chairman
26 February 2008
FIBERWEB’S BEST PROSPECTS LIE IN EXPLOITING ITS STRONG BRAND AND
MARKET POSITIONS IN IMPORTANT SEGMENTS OF THE LARGE AND EXPANDING
MARKET FOR INDUSTRIAL NONWOVEN FABRICS, PARTICULARLY IN FILTRATION
AND SPECIALITY CONSTRUCTION SEGMENTS.
