 8    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
2008 was a year of continuing recovery 
for Fiberweb, during which important 
foundations for future profitable growth 
were laid, despite a very high degree 
of cost volatility and recessionary 
pressures in our key markets.
The most important objective for the 
year was to continue building on the 
growth underlying operating margin 
to 3.1% achieved in the second half of 
2007. 3.4% was achieved in the first 
half of 2008 growing to 4.0% in the 
second half of the year, giving 3.7% 
for the year as a whole (2007: 2.9%). 
This improvement is evidence that 
actions taken to reduce costs, control 
pricing and improve mix are having a 
significant, positive effect. Fiberweb has 
now created a solid platform in both its 
businesses.
In unstable current markets, Fiberweb 
remains extremely vigilant for signs 
of financial stress at suppliers and 
customers. As traditional credit 
insurance is being withdrawn, Fiberweb 
has chosen to assume additional 
carefully-assessed risk, while working 
with customers to reduce credit terms 
and is also working to reduce the 
number of sole supply situations to 
which it is exposed. As yet, while there 
has been a very limited number of both 
customer and supplier failures, none 
has materially impacted Fiberweb’s 
business.
Financial Performance
A reduction in sales was expected 
following management decisions to 
withdraw from unprofitable business 
segments and the recessionary 
conditions prevailing in several markets. 
The sales outturn of £512.8 million 
in 2008 represents a 5.1% decline in 
volumes and 1.4% in sales on a constant 
currency basis after adjusting for the 
impact of business disposals. 2008 full 
year operating profits from continuing 
operations before restructuring costs 
and non-recurring items at £18.8 
million represent significant growth in 
both reported currency and at constant 
currency. A solid first half was followed 
by a strong second half as pricing and 
restructuring actions demonstrated 
their effect and the first sustained 
decline in raw material prices in many 
years began to demonstrate a positive 
impact.
The net loss before tax of £25.2 
million (2007: £100.1 million) reflects 
restructuring charges associated with 
ongoing efforts to remove unviable 
assets and to improve productivity, 
regrettably involving job losses. The 
2008 restructuring charge comprises 
£33.9 million fixed asset write-downs 
and impairments, £0.5 million of other 
asset write-downs and £9.4 million in 
cash expenses, largely for redundancy 
payments, partially offset by gains on 
disposals of businesses of £9.6 million.
The extreme volatility seen in oil prices 
was reflected in the cost of our most 
important raw material, polypropylene. 
Polypropylene prices in Europe and 
North America moved in contradictory 
directions at times during the year, 
leaving us with a net nil impact from 
raw materials in the first half and a 
small net positive impact of £0.5 million 
on operating profit in the second half 
compared to the first half of the year. 
Hence the raw material impact on 
Group profitability during the year was 
not material.
The successful sale of Bidim and 
Fiberweb’s 15% stake in a Saudi 
Arabian consumer fabrics producer, 
SGN, allowed further debt reduction and 
further focused the Group. Following 
these sales, the portfolio of the Group 
by sales is now 37.9% in differentiated 
industrial businesses, 55.5% in 
consumer fabrics and 6.6% in airlaid. 
The extreme movements in currency 
rates during the year, especially the 
second half, created a significant 
Chief Executive’s Review
2008 wAS A yEAR OF CONTINUINg 
RECOvERy FOR FIBERw EB, DURINg wHICH 
IMPORTANT FOUNDATIONS FOR FUTURE 
PROFITABLE gROw TH wERE LAID, DESPITE 
A vERy HIg H DEgREE OF COST vOLATILITy 
AND RECESSIONARy PRESSURES IN OUR 
KEy MARKETS.     Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008    9 
gap between average exchange rates 
used for the translation of the Profit & 
Loss account (£1:$1.85/€1.26) and the 
year–end rates used for the translation of 
the balance sheet (£1:$1.44/€1.03). Debt 
rose during the year by £12.3 million to 
£149.9 million, though £39.1 million of 
this increase relates purely to translation 
of currency borrowings, leaving the 
underlying debt movement as a reduction 
of £32.4 million on a constant currency 
basis. The Group’s primary earnings 
are in US Dollars and Euros matching 
the distribution of Group assets and 
borrowings, hence the inflation of the 
reported debt number does not indicate 
any adverse trend in performance.
Operating cash flow of £62.7 million 
(2007: £42.3 million) before non-recurring 
cash costs of £6.8 million (2007: £5.4 
million) and divestment proceeds of 
£17.2 million (2007: £42.0 million) funded 
capital investment of £33.6 million (2007: 
£32.6 million), net interest payments 
of £9.6 million (2007: £10.4 million) 
and shareholder dividends of £5.1 
million (2007: £7.0 million). Excellent 
improvement in the control of working 
capital produced a net inflow of £17.7 
million (2007: £2.4 million), continuing 
and strengthening the trend seen in 
2007. Working capital as a percentage of 
sales, a metric management believes is 
crucial to the business, declined further 
to 14.4% (2007: 17.9%) on a constant 
currency basis, reflecting tight controls 
and management focus.
2008 Overview
Industrial
The Americas Industrial business enjoyed 
a strong recovery year. Sales of $237.0 
million produced operating margins of 
5.8%, up 1.8 points on 2007. Cashflow 
was excellent as the new management 
team, promoted mid-year, built on 
previous efforts to reduce working capital 
and improve customer responsiveness.
While the continuing downturn in the 
residential construction market created 
difficult conditions for the construction 
materials business, sales volumes 
of Fiberweb’s Typar™, the leading 
performance housewrap brand, were 
remarkably stable in both the USA and 
Canada due to market share gain and 
strong distribution relationships. We 
continue to broaden our product range 
in this important area and to convince 
customers of the benefits of Typar’s 
superior technical performance. Sales of 
MetroWrap for commercial buildings and 
StormWrap for hurricane-prone areas 
have been slow, given the depressed 
state of the industry, but are developing. 
Important new roofing products have 
been developed and will be launched 
during 2009.
Sales of filtration media under the 
Reemay™ brand for pool and spa 
applications were impacted in the OEM 
new product installation segment by 
the housing and consumer recessions, 
but aftermarket sales were strong, with 
Fiberweb maintaining a strong market 
share. Other filtration sales remained 
stable, apart from one specialist area 
primarily serving automotive cabin air 
filter producers, which was hit by the 
general downturn in automotive volumes. 
New air filtration products have been 
developed and are being launched, 
involving new investment in additional 
carding capacity at Fiberweb’s Green Bay 
facility in the USA, adding the flexibility 
to make heavier-weight products with a 
wider mix of fibre raw materials. 
Sales of graphic arts products continued 
their slow decline in traditional markets, 
mirroring the decline of offset litho 
printing in these regions. The launch 
of new products for digital printing 
technologies continues, with further 
technical work necessary before market-
leading, differentiated products make a 
meaningful difference. Progress in this 
area is expected in 2009. Distribution 
of graphic arts products in Europe was 
outsourced during the year, enabling 
the closure of a warehouse in Germany, 
significantly reducing cost and enhancing 
the reach of Fiberweb’s product range.
Other important areas of the Americas 
Industrial business were mixed. Lower-
margin sales in furniture and bedding 
markets and in landscape markets were 
impacted by deliberate pricing actions 
designed to improve profitability. As a 
result, Fiberweb chose to take downtime 
on a few production lines, rather than 
producing excess inventory.
The European Industrial business 
endured a very challenging year, and 
sales fell by 21.8% to €51.1 million, with 
operating margins down by 3.8 points to 
4.5%. Management responded rapidly 
to conditions in the wider marketplace, 
reducing headcount and carefully 
controlling working capital, which 
reduced from 20.2% of sales in 2007 to 
16.4% by the end of 2008.
Filtration is currently a small business 
in Europe for Fiberweb.  However, it is 
one of great potential, both in specialist 
liquid filtration and in air filtration.  
Strong sales in blood filtration media and 
in meltblown products for face masks 
supported margins, and investment in an 
additional meltblown beam on an existing 
line at Tenotex, Italy has doubled capacity 
on that line for filtration materials, 
significantly reducing average costs.
The collapse in housing new-build 
volumes throughout Western Europe 
impacted core markets. Fortunately, 
many years of work building customers 
and a market presence in Eastern Europe 
mitigated the impact of this to some 
extent, with sales growth in Poland in 
particular. However, it is to be expected 
that the downturn will spread further 
during 2009. Sales will be supported 
during 2009 by the launch of new 
products, improving the insulation and 
longevity of roofing membranes.
Sales of agricultural fabrics for frost 
and pest protection, in which Fiberweb 
Daniel Dayan 10    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 
is a market leader in Europe, were 
in line with previous years. Other 
specialist industrial fabric sales, mainly 
serving medical markets, were low 
in 2008, following planned high sales 
in 2007 prior to a significant change 
in raw material sourcing. This had a 
disproportionate impact on margins in 
European Industrial, and recovery is 
expected in 2009 following the successful 
qualification of new raw materials.
Terram enjoyed a strong first half, but 
the impact of the construction downturn 
in the UK severely impacted the second 
half, as did hugely uncompetitive power 
prices in the UK during the third and 
fourth quarters, which led production 
to be substantially curtailed during the 
last few months of the year. Sterling 
devaluation and some mitigation in 
volatile UK industrial power pricing have 
helped Terram to regain competitiveness 
in early 2009.
Hygiene
2008 overall was a solid year for 
Fiberweb’s Hygiene businesses.
Consumer Fabrics saw global sales of 
£284.4 million, flat compared to 2007 in 
constant currency terms, with operating 
margins of 5.0% up 0.5 points.
In North America, sales, profits and 
margins in the consumer fabrics business 
grew, thanks to previous restructuring, 
excellent manufacturing performance in 
terms of productivity and scrap reduction 
and progress in diversifying the customer 
base of our important Mexican facility. 
The impact of lower raw material costs 
towards the end of the year was also 
significant and positive. Sales of fabric 
softener sheet remained strong to all 
branded and private-label converters.
In Europe, the impact of substantial over-
capacity in the market led to intense price 
pressure and reduced margins. Actions 
have been initiated to remove Fiberweb’s 
uncompetitive capacity and to diversify 
our customer base to ensure we supply 
as many segments of the market as we 
can. The raw material cost reduction 
impact in Europe was much more limited 
than in North America due to different 
petrochemical pricing methodologies in 
the two regions, but is expected to be 
significantly positive in the first quarter 
of 2009.
Substantial progress has been made 
in new product development in the 
consumer fabric area, especially in the 
areas of extensible fabrics, lower-cost 
fabrics and fabrics containing sustainable 
raw materials for various diaper 
applications.
The Asian airlaid business produced 
sales of RMB341.4 million (£26.4 million) 
and underlying operating margins of 
8.0%, down 1.5 points on 2007. While the 
business enjoyed record demand and 
output, serving customers throughout 
Asia from our site in Tianjin and also 
exporting significant quantities to 
Europe, pricing was less attractive. 
The commissioning of Line 2 at Tianjin 
has been completed as planned and 
has significantly broadened Fiberweb’s 
product offering in Asia at a very 
competitive capital cost.
The Business Review sets out in more 
detail how we have performed in 2008.
Our People
During yet another period when we have 
been reducing headcount and increasing 
productivity, it demands a great deal 
of commitment and loyalty from our 
employees to focus on serving customers 
and optimising performance, and I am 
always impressed by the loyalty and 
determination shown by Fiberweb people. 
As our performance has improved, we 
have been able to increase investment 
in development, notably with a strategic 
marketing programme developed for 
around forty senior Fiberweb managers 
by Cranfield University in the UK, which 
is one critical element in upgrading our 
marketing capabilities.
As ever, I would like to thank all Fiberweb 
employees for their commitment and 
creativity as we begin to emerge from 
turnaround into a period of more normal 
growth and development in challenging 
markets.
 
Outlook
We expect Fiberweb’s performance to 
be resilient, despite the challenging 
economic environment.
The Hygiene businesses are expected 
to continue to benefit from fairly stable 
end-user demand and lower raw material 
costs. We will also benefit from the 
further restructuring actions announced 
in detail in January 2009. 
The Industrial businesses will benefit 
from new products launched in filtration, 
roofing and specialist geo-textiles. Also 
here, cost reduction actions will benefit 
2009 as will the investment in marketing 
skills and resources made during 2008. 
Further debt reduction remains a priority. 
The medium-term target of net debt at 2x 
EBITDA announced in August remains in 
place, although this is not expected to be 
achieved in 2009. 
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive
24 February 2009
wE ExPECT FIBERwEB’S PERFORMANCE TO 
BE RESILIENT, DESPITE THE CHALLENgINg 
ECONOMIC ENvIRONMENT. FURTHER DEBT 
REDUCTION REMAINS A PRIORITy FOR THE 
MEDIUM- TERM. 
