 6    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 
Chief Executive’s Review
During 2011, we focused on improving our financial position, 
with the sale and operating leaseback of a new utility plant 
in the US in March, a rights issue in March to enable bolt-on 
acquisitions and finally the sale of the majority of our hygiene 
business in December. As a result, our gearing of 2.5x 
underlying
3
 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) at the beginning of January has been 
turned into a net cash position at the end of December.
We also completed two bolt-on acquisitions, with Boddingtons 
joining the Group in January 2011 and T ubex in May 2011, 
adding high-margin, specialty, complementary products 
to our existing, more commoditised T erram geotextiles 
business. The result of these activities has been to re-create 
Fiberweb at the end of 2011 as an international group with 
revenues of some £300 million, focused on developing and 
manufacturing specialty industrial and construction materials 
with particular strengths in products for filtration, industrial 
processing, soil and construction engineering, drier sheets 
and several medical areas. We have net cash of around £10 
million after covering all costs associated with the hygiene 
sale and hence enjoy a very strong financial position as we 
navigate the current economic uncertainties and volatility in 
raw material prices and seek to accelerate the development of 
our businesses.
The greater focus within our technologies and product 
offerings following the hygiene sale will assist us in driving 
operational improvement, reducing costs and increasing 
flexibility. 
Financial Performance
The reported Group financial results are significantly impacted 
by the accounting for the hygiene disposal which completed 
at the end of December 2011. These results are explained in 
detail in the Financial Review later in this report. The primary 
focus should be on the results of the continuing business.
Sales in the continuing Group of £297.8 million, up 11%, were 
broadly in–line with expectations, with volume growth of 3% 
including the benefit of acquisitions and a significant impact 
from pricing as rapid raw material cost increases in the first 
half fed through into price increases for Fiberweb products  
in the second half. Underlying operating profit reached  
£10.8 million, representing a return on sales of only 3.6%.  
This was disappointing and marks a temporary break with the 
trend of steady margin improvement seen from 2007 to 2010. 
The primary reasons for the shortfall against our plans were a 
delay in recovering raw material cost increases in our pricing, 
output and sales constraints arising from restructuring projects 
at Pontypool and Berlin and the absence of the raw material 
hedging profits seen in 2009 and 2010.
Operating cash flow at £20.5 million (2010: £37.7 million)  
was impacted by a working capital outflow of £9.8 million 
(2010: £4.3 million).
Return on capital employed, a key measure of the returns 
we are earning on shareholders’ capital, was driven lower 
by the reduced underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations to 5.6%. This is some way below our weighted 
average cost of capital and returning this crucial metric to an 
acceptable level above our estimated 10% long-term cost 
of capital is a key target for the coming period. This will be 
accomplished by improving margins through cost reduction, 
improving pricing and mix and seeking to improve our capital 
efficiency though reductions in working capital and tight 
control of capital expenditure.
For the discontinued hygiene business, sales were £210.8 
million, up 9.0% partly due to the impact of higher raw material 
prices on selling prices but also due to improved utilisation 
on the spunbond line commissioned in Italy during 2009. 
Underlying operating profit of £14.2 million, was up 75.3% due 
to a strong result from the FitesaFiberweb JV , cost reductions 
and yield improvements on several lines. The only area of 
significant weakness within Hygiene was the Chinese airlaid 
business, which continued to be impacted as in 2010, by 
volume weakness from its largest customer.
Retained profit for the year of £8.8 million (2010: £7.2 million) 
included a £1.5 million gain on disposal of the hygiene 
business.
 
Divisional Review
Technical Fabrics
T echnical Fabrics is a new division, created following the 
hygiene disposal from the previous Americas Industrial and 
Europe Industrial sub-divisions plus the retained drier sheet 
business at Old Hickory and the retained hygiene business in 
Europe at our sites at Biesheim, France and T erno d’Isola, Italy. 
T echnical Fabrics is much the larger of our two divisions and 
has five production sites in the USA, Germany, France and 
Italy with around 900 employees. The heart of our competitive 
(3)
 Before restructuring costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other non-recurring items.
The transformation of our portfolio and balance sheet during 2011 leaves us well-placed 
to grow our attractive specialty industrial materials businesses, to deliver strong returns 
for shareholders.
Daniel Dayan
Chief Executive  Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    7  
We completed two bolt-on acquisitions, with Boddingtons 
joining the Group in January and Tubex in May 2011, adding 
high-margin, specialty, complementary products to our 
existing, more commoditised T erram geotextiles business. 8    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011
strengths in T echnical Fabrics lies in specialty spunbond and 
conversion technology, such as Reemay nonwoven polyester 
fabrics, T ypar nonwoven polypropylene fabrics, Linopore film/
nonwoven laminates, Agryl, Novagryl and Covertan agricultural 
fabrics, polypropylene meltblown fabrics, and polyethylene 
nonwoven fabrics, carded hygiene and filtration fabrics.
Key events during 2011 included the commissioning of the new 
R&D centre and pilot line at Old Hickory, US, the completion 
of a new, large thermal and air-through bond carded fabric 
production line at T erno d’Isola, Italy and a significant upgrade 
of the breathable film and nonwoven line at Aschersleben, 
Germany. Sales were fairly stable, other than in European 
roofing where the disruption associated with the planned 
closure of the Blowitex site at Königswinter and transfer of 
production to Berlin caused delays to customer shipments and 
higher yield losses. Important steps have been taken in the 
development of new filtration fabrics, new fabrics for medical 
applications and in preparing the launch of a new Climat™ 
branded roofing product range in Europe.
Dr Carsten Heldmann assumed the leadership of the T echnical 
Fabrics Division in November, following the announcement of 
the hygiene sale. Carsten joined the Group in June 2005 as 
Head of Group R&D and following several years in R&D and 
Marketing management, primarily within the hygiene business, 
Carsten successfully led the Hygiene division from 2010 up 
until the disposal.
Geosynthetics
Geosynthetics is a new division, created from the Group’s 
existing UK-based T erram geotextile business, the two 2011 
acquisitions of Boddingtons and T ubex as well as the Group’s 
geotextile and construction businesses in the USA. From major 
sites at Maldon, Essex and Aberdare, South Wales in the UK, 
with around 300 employees, plus production at Old Hickory in 
the US, Geosynthetics now seeks to offer more complete and 
sophisticated solutions for civil engineering, rail engineering, 
drainage, ground stabilisation, landscaping and silviculture in 
the UK, Europe, the USA, Russia and the Middle East.  
The division is still young, but is aggressively moving towards 
solution selling and a more complete product offering in these 
areas.
Key events, other than the acquisitions themselves, include the 
commissioning in November 2011 of a T ubex tree shelter 
production line at Old Hickory, barely five months after T ubex 
was acquired, the ordering of a sophisticated new 
needlepunch production line to be installed at Maldon to 
strengthen the geotextiles offering in the UK, the restructuring 
of sites at Pontypool and Loddon as part of post-acquisition 
integration and the launch of improved synthetic roofing 
underlay products in the US housing market.
Much remains to be done to optimise the performance of this 
new division, with the closure of the final T erram line scheduled 
for mid-2012 following the successful commissioning of the 
needlepunch line at Maldon, strengthening of the sales team 
and new product initiatives in the rail industry. Customer wins in 
the US housing sector for our market-leading T ypar housewrap 
will support sales in this important market as it begins to 
recover after four years of recession, while tree shelter sales 
grew strongly in 2011 and are expected to continue developing 
well in 2012.
Our People
The entire Fiberweb team was challenged by a difficult and 
uncertain year. Restructuring at Pontypool, Maldon and 
Königswinter impacted many people. Around 600 employees 
left the Group together with the hygiene disposal and 
significant overhead cost reductions are now underway to 
reflect the smaller scale of the continuing business.  
In addition, the challenging economic environment also left its 
mark. In spite of these unsettling issues, Fiberweb people 
around the globe demonstrated commitment and 
determination to serve customers and shareholders alike.
The major management development programme –  
Fiberweb xL – launched last year has continued to prepare 
our most talented and committed staff from all functions and 
locations for new and greater challenges within Fiberweb as 
their careers develop. This two year programme should enable 
us to increase the proportion of senior vacancies we can fill 
internally and to increase the overall performance level of our 
senior management cadre.
Another major initiative developed further during 2011 was 
our in-house continuous improvement programme – Q5zero – 
targeting zero accidents, zero defects, zero late deliveries, zero 
inefficiencies and zero non-standard operations.  
More than one hundred people have now been trained in a 
five-module, five-week programme over a one-year period 
and we are beginning to see the benefits in a large number of 
individual improvement projects on our sites.
I would like to thank all Fiberweb employees for their 
commitment and creativity as we create a new Fiberweb as a 
growing and attractive industrial specialty materials business.
Outlook
Fiberweb’s performance is expected to improve significantly in 
2012, benefiting from the absence of the specific operational 
issues seen in 2011, from the increased focus on attractive 
niche, specialty markets and from the benefit of previous 
investment in assets, acquisitions, technology and marketing. 
The economic environment facing us is shifting, with some 
signs of recovery in the US, notably in the housing market, 
while Europe remains uncertain.
We enter 2012 with a strong balance sheet and the ability 
to accelerate our development. Strengthening our core 
businesses in filtration and specialty construction remains a 
priority and we need to consider establishing a meaningful 
presence in attractive emerging markets, which are likely to 
deliver the bulk of the global growth in our markets in the 
coming years. However, in the short-term we will concentrate 
on improving our operational performance, on continuing to 
reduce our overhead costs in line with the current scope of the 
Group and on reducing levels of working capital to drive up 
returns on capital employed. 
Daniel Dayan 
Chief Executive
29 February 2012
Chief Executive’s Review continued 8    Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 Fiberweb PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011    9  
Upgrading our S3 reicofil line 
S3 line
Christian Bertelmann
Fiberweb Berlin
means we can deliver a seamless 
end-to-end process, starting from 
granules and continuing all the way 
through the production process 
to end up with fully packaged and 
labelled high quality finished goods. 
This increases productivity and 
enables us to maintain high levels 
of product quality, providing us with 
a competitive advantage to better 
serve the current and future needs 
of the European roofing market 
segment.
Our investment 
in the S3 line
“In autumn 2011, we implemented an upgrade of a major spunbond 
line at our Berlin production facility. This included investment in state  
of the art inline printing and converting equipment. The line is 
specifically designed not only 
to prevent changeovers from 
disrupting the process by reducing 
down time, but also to ensure 
specific needs of our customers 
can be met.” 
