 Group CEO’s
Operating Review
Summary
My ﬁrst year with Filtronic plc has been one of growth and consolidation within the group, supported by returning
markets.
Wireless Infrastructure has shown sustained above market growth for its ﬁlter-based transmit-receive modules and made
further progress in establishing itself as a force in the base-station power ampliﬁer market, a strategic objective in which
we have invested. The inherent technical and manufacturing strengths in the division continue to serve it in maintaining
margins, combating price pressure with design innovation and opening new product opportunities through increased
integration of base-station functions.
Integrated Products has continued to make progress on semiconductor process technology and merchant market
offerings from its compound semiconductor foundry at Newton Aycliffe while reducing losses and preparing for the start
of high volume manufacture of switches for mobile handsets in the coming ﬁnancial year. Sales in the merchant arena
have been slow leading us to review our sales approach to this market. The volume switch market, which has taken
longer than forecast to mature, is showing strength.
The division has relocated its businesses at Merrimack and Natick in the US into a larger facility at Hudson, New
Hampshire, from which it is servicing a major new defence contract with ITT. The improved facilities will allow us to bid
competitively for larger contracts, consistent with the strategy of developing business opportunities we perceive in the
large US defence market. 
At the annual general meeting in September 2004, the Chairman announced the Board’s decision to dispose of the
Handset Products division, preferably by means of an IPO on the Finnish stock exchange. Preparations were put in hand
to achieve this, but by January it was clear that the market conditions had deteriorated to the point where the
contemplated IPO would not realise appropriate value. The decision was announced in January that the company would
seek a buyer for the business and in June we informed the market that we entered into detailed negotiations. These
exclusive negotiations are progressing. 
The segmental analysis of the operating results is as follows:
Sales Operating proﬁt
Year ended 31 May 2005 *2004 2005 *2004
£m £m £m £m
Wireless Infrastructure 168.4 145.2 18.1 10.7
Handset Products 50.0 60.2 3.6 11.2
Integrated Products 43.6 38.4 (9.9) (13.4)
Central Services 3.6 3.9 (5.0) (3.7)
Inter segment (2.7) (2.6) – –
1 1 1 1
262.9 245.1 6.8 4.8
5 5 5 5
* The results for the year ended 31 May 2004 have been restated using the revised accounting policy described in note 2
to the ﬁnancial statements. The average rate of exchange for the year is now used to translate the results of the
overseas subsidiaries.
Wireless Infrastructure
This business segment under the leadership of Alan Needle, divisional CEO, dominates the independent global market
in ﬁlter-based components and sub-systems for cellular base-stations and is using its established position with OEMs
(Original Equipment Manufacturers) to expand into the adjacent product area of power ampliﬁers. The market has been
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 3 Group CEO’s
Operating Review
under continual price pressure which has forced investment in global low-cost manufacturing from Filtronic and its
competitors. The value of this transition is nearly exhausted shifting emphasis towards superior product design and
technology insertion throughout product life, areas where Wireless Infrastructure can differentiate itself and achieve
competitive advantage. 
The wide design competence of the division allows economies to be gained through integration of functions, typical
opportunities arriving through embedded digital processing for signal conditioning and for computer interface to
base-station software. By maintaining in-house expertise and capacity in ferrites, ceramics and digital processing
to complement its ﬁlter technology, the product offerings can be optimised for performance and value. 
In the case of power ampliﬁers, the company’s compound semiconductor facility holds the transistor technology for
providing performance levels beyond the reach of standard market components. There is a growing appreciation of the
need for higher performance ampliﬁers as new data transmission formats are required in 3G WCDMA networks and as
network loading increases spectral occupancy. We see this as creating an additional growth impetus to our power
ampliﬁer business.
The business has capitalised on the ongoing improvements in the overall market worldwide, with the ﬁlter-based
transmit-receive modules growing sales 15% over the year, which we consider outperformed the overall expansion of the
market estimated to be in the range of 12% to 14%. The market continues to be dynamic, with more OEMs sourcing
supply from the sector and discontinuing in-house production. During the year we consolidated our position by
supplying production quantities to all the major OEMs thereby providing the platform for revenue growth in the coming
year. We estimate that we currently hold 28% of our addressable market in ﬁlter-based product while our efforts in power
ampliﬁers give us longer-term potential to achieve similar penetration in this area, particularly if the performance
emphasis we predict comes to pass.
Deliveries of integrated power ampliﬁers incorporating fully digital interfaces for signal and control commenced at the
end of the ﬁrst half of the ﬁnancial year. This sophisticated product integrates a full transmit and receive radio function
with a multi-carrier power ampliﬁer. Variants of the product are in development to cover additional frequency bands and
higher powers. 
During the year, we continued to consolidate production activities in China, resulting in the closure of ﬁlter manufacture
in the UK, although ﬁnal assembly for the integrated power ampliﬁers has been retained. The transfer has been carried
out with limited additional capital expenditure, contributing to proﬁtability and continuing cash generation.
Integrated Products
I am very pleased to welcome Iain Gibson, who joined the division in February from SELEX Sensors and Airborne
Systems (SELEX SAS), formerly BAE SYSTEMS Avionics and became its CEO in April. Iain brings a wealth of general and
commercial management experience from the defence sector which will continue to improve the operational
performance of this technologically and product diverse business.
This division engages activities covering the semiconductor and defence and security sectors and point to point
microwave links. Sales in the year grew 26% (2004 £34.5m to 2005 £43.6m) after excluding the contribution of the
electronic warfare business of Filtronic Solid State, which was sold in December 2003. The sequential growth rate in sales
comparing half-year on half-year during the ﬁnancial year was 14% and the comparative half year growth for the second
half of the ﬁnancial year compared with the same period last ﬁnancial year was 20%. Operating loss for the ﬁnancial year
was reduced by £3.5m to £9.9m, split £5.7m in the ﬁrst half and £4.2m in the second. This was achieved while adding
staff and upgrading facilities to accommodate high volume output at Newton Aycliffe to service demands from our
strategic customer, R.F. Micro Devices (RFMD). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the foundry moved into round-the-clock,
seven-day week production for the ﬁrst time.
4 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 The semiconductor foundry at Newton Aycliffe has now established itself as a leading source for six-inch gallium
arsenide wafers using the pHEMT process. In April 2005, it started to supply wafers in volume to RFMD for use in
front-end modules for mobile handsets, a world market in excess of 750 million units per year and growing at 7%. 
The defence activities have beneﬁted from the start of production supply of sub-systems to ITT in the US and continuing
production supply to Elettronica of Italy and EADS of Germany of sub-system assemblies for the Euroﬁghter Defensive
Aids system. The Euroﬁghter production will reduce to low level in the coming year as a major portion of our work fell
outside UK national work-share and will, as a result of the delays to the second tranche, be subsumed into Italy and
Germany. This leaves the US defence and security market as the best opportunity for our continuing growth in the short
term. Consequently, we have relocated our businesses in the US to support growth and, in June 2005, brought Filtronic
Sigtek into the Integrated Products segment where we intend to focus on acquiring external business, while formerly it
has mainly supported in-house projects. These moves in the US were accompanied by a management reorganisation,
simplifying the reporting structures and creating a single management team to lead all our US activities.
Filtronic Broadband provides point-to-point microwave link transceivers to OEM customers. During the year the
customer base was expanded on the basis of new qualiﬁed product which entered production in November 2004 using
our gallium arsenide integrated circuits. This product is selling to three OEMs in expanding volumes and a further design
iteration awaiting qualiﬁcation uses more complex multi-function integrated circuits further reducing component count.
The point-to-point radio market is exhibiting strong growth and our customers are well positioned to beneﬁt. Our
technology in this market is recognised to be superior and we conﬁdently expect an increasing market share. 
Handset Products
This division is a market leader in the provision of internal antennas for mobile handsets, with a market share of about
18%. Sales declined 17% year on year reﬂecting lower than anticipated levels of activity in the second half of the ﬁnancial
year with reduced levels of activity with the division’s principal customer. Antenna volumes in the ﬁnancial year were
104 million units (2004 121 million units), of which over 50% were manufactured in China. The operating margin reﬂected
this reduced level of activity and with the impact of the ﬁxed nature of depreciation on automated lines in Finland,
operating margins for the year reduced to 11% before goodwill amortisation, 7% after goodwill amortisation. 
Central Research and Development
Central Research and Development effort has continued on integrated power ampliﬁers leading to a solution of the
problem of digitally compensating for the distortion products of the gallium arsenide multi-carrier base-station ampliﬁer.
This solution lies in the semiconductor technology used and is compatible with existing digital-predistortion processors.
This breakthrough has led to increased effort on low-cost packaging to achieve an attractive high-performance module
price. 
Strategic projects include WiMAX basestation hardware and software and WiMAX mobile transceiver modules. 
In the defence sector, effort was expended on a digital integrated frequency measurement module to succeed our very
successful product range now in production and on a demonstration “man-pack” ESM receiver which is being evaluated
by potential customers. 
Finance
The business has been ﬁnanced by bank facilities during the year, and although covenants were breached, the group’s
lending banks continued support. These breaches of covenants resulted in additional ﬁnance charges in the year of
approximately £0.5m. The capital repayments of £6m due in the year were met.
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 5 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 5 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 5
Group CEO’s
Operating Review
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 5 After the year end, the bank facilities were amended through new arrangements with Barclays and ABN AMRO, and they
now provide term facilities over the next ﬁve years with no capital repayment due in the ﬁnancial year ending 31 May
2006. The banks have also reconﬁrmed the overdraft of £9m until end of July 2006.
The recognition as revenue of the outstanding deferred licence fee from BAE SYSTEMS (now SELEX SAS) was changed
with effect from 1 June 2004 to be equally spread over the remaining period to 1 May 2008 for which the Filtronic group
is liable to provide supply of product. This has increased the annual revenue recognition from £0.8m to £2.3m.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in the year was limited to £13.0m (2004 £11.7m), reﬂecting additional capacity for Wireless
Infrastructure in China and its preparation for production of integrated power ampliﬁers, funding of replacement
capacity within Handset Products, and ongoing plant requirements for defence contracts and high volume compound
semiconductor demand in Integrated Products.
Employees
At the end of the ﬁnancial year the group employed 3,863 people, an increase of 273 (8%) since May 2004. The principal
changes were that China increased employees by 555 people, whilst UK employment reduced by 406 people.
Outlook
Wireless Infrastructure foresees continued overall market growth, estimated to be approximately 8% to 10%, with
potential to gain modest increase in its market share in ﬁlter-based products as a result of the new OEM customers
secured during the year. It expects to maintain historic margins through continuing low cost manufacturing, before
transfer of central research and development costs. Further growth is expected in integrated power ampliﬁers. Following
market demand, we are supplying Silicon LDMOS power ampliﬁers for speciﬁc customer requirements complementing
the high performance gallium arsenide ampliﬁers. 
A further lower cost manufacturing site will be established during the year in Hungary, initially to provide additional
capacity for ﬁlter production and to reduce dependence on China as a sole low-cost manufacturing base. The division
will also cease operations in Australia.
Integrated Products is planning rapid turnover growth through the challenging ramp up of volume semiconductor
production for RFMD and supply to additional volume customers. Filtronic Broadband is moving to volume radio
production from the new business gained in the year ending 31 May 2005. This is beneﬁcial in sales and proﬁt to the
division and also further increases foundry loading. Growth in defence revenues in the US will be offset by run-down of
Euroﬁghter production in the UK towards the end of the year. Overall, the division is expected to reach run rate
breakeven in the year ending 31 May 2006, this being dependent on achieving production targets for the foundry.
Handset Products should see a strong recovery in revenue in the ﬁnancial year as projects acquired and product qualiﬁed
over the past nine months reach production ramp-up. The longer term outlook is supported by efforts in ceramic
antennas for cellular and non-cellular applications and extruded metal structures for integrated assemblies.
John Roulston FREng FIEE CEng
Group CEO
1 August 2005
6 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 6 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005 6 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005
Group CEO’s
Operating Review
6 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2005
