 Business Review
– Group CEO’s
Operating Review
Summary
This year has been one of considerable change as I have sought to complete the ﬁnancial restructuring initiated in
September 2004 and to revitalise the market’s appreciation of the value inherent in the group.
The Handset Products division was sold in September 2005 to Pulse Electronics (Singapore) PTE Ltd, a subsidiary of
Technitrol Inc. (“Pulse”) for a total consideration of £56.7m, including the earn-out consideration of £11.3m due in
August 2006. The initial consideration of £45.4m was used to repay the £44.0m term loan from Barclays and ABN AMRO,
which had been rescheduled over a ﬁve year term with revised ﬁnancial covenants in July 2005.
Defence Electronics opened its new manufacturing site in New Hampshire, USA in September 2005, partly to support
the supply of subsystems to ITT. The UK continued its activities across a range of programmes including the supply of
subsystem assemblies for the Euroﬁghter Defensive Aids system to Elettronica of Italy and EADS of Germany.
Compound Semiconductors continued to experience growing demand for its products, so we decided in the ﬁrst half
of the year to increase capacity as its ﬁnancial performance was on target.
In January 2006, the Board also asked me to move from being Chairman to take the role of Group Chief Executive on
John Roulston’s resignation. I undertook to carry out the role for a twelve to eighteen month period with the speciﬁc
aims of providing leadership to the Wireless Infrastructure division following the retirement of its previous Managing
Director, Alan Needle, in December 2005, and to support Iain Gibson in setting the direction for the next steps in the
growth of the Compound Semiconductor and Defence Electronics activities within the Integrated Products division. 
On appointment, I secured the management team of the Wireless Infrastructure division by ensuring the retention of
Geoff Fletcher as Managing Director of the division. Subsequently, after a review of the group’s strategic options, the
Board agreed that the majority of the activities in the Wireless Infrastructure business, covering transmit receive
modules, integrated power ampliﬁers and remote radio head products, would be acquired by Powerwave. 
We have subsequently continued to beneﬁt from strengthening growth for the Wireless Infrastructure division arising
from operators outside North America commissioning systems from OEMs. 
The outlook for the businesses within the group is set out at the end of this report.
The segmental analysis of the operating results for continuing operations is as follows:
Revenue Operating (loss)/proﬁt
Year ended 31 May 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Wireless Infrastructure 172.7 177.7 5.5 17.5
Defence Electronics 32.1 31.6 0.6 3.1
Compound Semiconductors 20.8 8.6 (5.1) (11.7)
Central Services – – (4.1) (5.7)
Inter segment (4.6) (5.0) – –
Unallocated pension (charge)/credit – – (1.1) 2.4
1 1 1 1
221.0 212.9 (4.2) 5.6
5 5 5 5
The business segments were redeﬁned with effect from 1 June 2005. The business segment results for the comparative
period have been re-analysed to be consistent with the current period.
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2006 3 Business Review
– Group CEO’s
Operating Review
Wireless Infrastructure
Wireless Infrastructure designs and manufactures the transmit/receive modules, power ampliﬁers and remote radio
heads for mobile base stations, and point to point backhaul radio products that are primarily used to support mobile
phone networks. During the year, the activities generated revenues of £172.7m (2005 £177.7m). The core business
maintained its market leading position supplying all Western OEMs, and reﬂected a static market awaiting the placing
of certain large contracts in India, China and the US that have started to be placed during the current year. 
The operating proﬁt was £5.5m (2005 £17.5m), reﬂecting principally pricing pressure that was not able to be fully
compensated by product redesign, and a slower than planned move of production on high volume product lines from
Finland to Hungary and from the US to China. We closed our Australian operations in August 2005 at a total cost of
£1.1m, which is included in this result. During the second half of the ﬁnancial year, the business suffered unseasonally
low demand during the third quarter and the activity for the fourth quarter included the negative impact of the
announcement made on 5 May 2006 of discussions with Powerwave. Provision was also made in the second half of the
ﬁnancial year for the ﬁnalisation of a commercial agreement in respect of a product liability issue with a customer.
The power ampliﬁer products were manufactured in production quantities for one customer, and we undertook product
development for another customer on a product scheduled to start production in the second half of the ﬁnancial year
ending 31 May 2007.
The principal products for the point to point backhaul radio products are radio transceivers assembled in the UK, which
use integrated circuits produced by Compound Semiconductors, along with diplex ﬁlters which are manufactured in the
UK and Hungary. Its customers are leading OEMs in the sector for whom several new products have entered production
during the year. Further new designs are in qualiﬁcation using our more complex multifunction integrated circuits.
Compound Semiconductors
In the past twelve months, the Compound Semiconductors facility at Newton Aycliffe has been undergoing a transition
from its prior position as a modest producer of Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) pHEMT wafers to being a volume producer of
these products. They are used mainly in switches in mobile telephones, but also have applications in communication
equipment and defence applications. While the majority of recent growth stems from expansion in the mobile telephone
sector, it has also been pleasing that the year has seen initial volume production orders from Selex as they achieve
success with E-Scan radar sales. While there was some disappointment in sales of merchant semiconductors, to a large
extent this has been caused by the priority of meeting steep customer demand for switches. One beneﬁt of the
additional capacity to be created in the future is to allow Compound Semiconductors to establish a stronger presence
in the merchant semiconductors sector.
The global mobile handset market is continuing its growth with approximately 815 million handsets sold in 2005, and
forecast to be over 1 billion handsets sold in 2008. Use of GaAs switches is now speciﬁed for most new handset designs,
and 80% of handsets manufactured in 2008 are expected to be of a design which contains this type of switch. This switch
has the advantage that it consumes less power than alternative products for complex switches, and meets demanding
low-loss and linearity requirements. Competition is from older technologies that use 3 way pin diode or GaAs switches
combined with band deﬁning ﬁlters. Furthermore, handsets are becoming more complex with increasing switching
requirements offering the possibility that the quantity of GaAs used per handset will increase further over the next two
to three years.
Revenue in the year grew 142% (2005 £8.6m to 2006 £20.8m) and the sequential growth rate in revenue comparing half
year on half year during the ﬁnancial year was 45%. Operating losses reduced from £11.7m in 2005 to £5.1m in 2006,
including closure costs of our USA West Coast sales ofﬁce of £0.4m which were incurred in the ﬁrst half of the year.
4 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2006 It was pleasing that Compound Semiconductors reached its targeted ﬁnancial performance of an operating break even
run rate over the fourth quarter of the ﬁnancial year to 31 May 2006. This was after absorbing the cost increases
associated with commissioning a further capacity in the second half of the year. This was before the recognition of the
release of £2.7m of deferred income in the period arising from the renegotiation of arrangements on past government
grants. On the basis of this performance and the demand growth mentioned above, the Board has planned further
expansion in the capacity of Compound Semiconductors in the coming ﬁnancial year.
Defence Electronics
For over 25 years Filtronic has supplied complex electromagnetic components and subsystems, most notably for use in
the ﬁeld of electronic warfare, to defence equipment prime contractors around the world. Although the Defence
Electronics activities are divided between the UK and the US, the two parts of the company, which are managed as
separate entities, operate in similar market sectors, reﬂecting the original technology base of the UK company. 
The UK business (FCL) currently has manufacturing sites in Shipley and at Newton Aycliffe and a small research group in
Australia. The past ﬁnancial year has seen one of FCL’s larger contracts, for the supply of subsystems for the Euroﬁghter
project, draw to a close. Consequently, additional focus has been applied to securing new business for future years. 
Following a review of the future opportunities for the company in the US defence market, the past year has seen a
signiﬁcant consolidation of the US business. In order to achieve better leverage of the company’s competencies and to
lay a solid growth path for the company in the US defence market, the Sage manufacturing operation and the Sigtek
design centre were combined into a new business, Filtronic Signal Solutions (FSS). A new manufacturing site was opened
in Hudson, New Hampshire in September 2005, which consolidated the two previous manufacturing operations in the
US, supporting the contract with ITT, following which the management team has been progressively strengthened. A
major review of the business following these changes resulted in an inventory write down of £1.5m, which was made in
the interim results for the six months to 30 November 2005.
Revenue in the year grew 2% (2005 £31.6m to 2006 £32.1m) and operating proﬁt before the inventory write down of
£1.5m in 2006 was £2.1m (2005 £3.1m).
Central Research and Development
Central Research and Development has supported the development of a new power ampliﬁer product for a new
customer, based on LDMOS technology, that is scheduled to start production in October 2006. It has also undertaken
development work on remote radio heads for 3G and WiMAX applications in support of the Wireless Infrastructure
division.
Business disposals
This has been a year of major change in the structure of the group with the sale of the Handset Products division in
September 2005, and agreement for the sale of the Wireless Infrastructure business (transmit/receive modules, power
ampliﬁers and remote radio heads activities of the Wireless Infrastructure division). 
The Handset Products division is treated as a discontinued operation. The Handset Products division was a market
leader in the provision of internal antennas for mobile handsets and was sold to Pulse in September 2005. For the period
from 1 June 2005 to the date of its sale on 8 September 2005, it generated revenue of £13.6m and an operating proﬁt
of £0.2m. The total consideration, including the earn-out due in August 2006, was £56.7m, resulting in a proﬁt on disposal
of £14.1m. 
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2006 5
Business Review
– Group CEO’s
Operating Review Finance
The group rescheduled its bank facilities with Barclays and ABN AMRO in July 2005 to be a term loan of £44m repayable
over ﬁve years and an overdraft of £9m. The term loan was repaid on completion of the sale of the Handset Products
division in September 2005 and the group’s facilities became a revolving credit facility of £18m available until August
2008 and an overdraft of £2m. In May 2006, the group secured an additional facility of £15m from its bankers until
30 November 2006 to fund the expansion of the Compound Semiconductors facility at Newton Aycliffe.
Capital expenditure
The group’s capital expenditure for the continuing operations was £13.4m (2005 £8.5m). The capital expenditure was
incurred principally to increase capacity in Compound Semiconductors in the light of continued growth in customer
demand, and the completion of the move to the new manufacturing facility in the US for Defence Electronics. Capital
expenditure in the discontinued Handset Products operation was £1.0m (2005 £4.5m) in the period before disposal. This
was for the start-up of the manufacturing facility in Hungary and capacity expansion in China.
Employees
At 31 May 2006, the group employed 3,353 people in its continuing operations, an increase of 20% since May 2005,
primarily in Wireless Infrastructure’s manufacturing operations in China and Hungary.
Outlook
Wireless Infrastructure
The Wireless Infrastructure division has experienced continuing strengthened demand in its market, that has been
reﬂected in the order book in June being extended out from its usual period of around two weeks to twelve weeks and
this has been accompanied by increased visibility in the forecasts received from customers for later in the ﬁnancial year.
As a result, production capacity has been increased with output for the largest volume product being doubled since
January and manufacturing operations in Finland have been restarted to meet demand for a speciﬁc product. In
addition, demand for point to point backhaul radios has doubled year on year.
With this increase in demand, pricing has been agreed for a longer period than usual with a key customer.
It is also well positioned to support Long Term Evolution GSM with its core OEM customers. This outlook for this division
is focused on growth from its traditional customer base.
The planned ﬁnancial performance for the Wireless Infrastructure division is therefore that revenue for the ﬁrst half of the
current ﬁnancial year is expected to increase by more than 25% compared with the preceding half year and, with the
strength of the current market, customer demand extends well into the second half of the current ﬁnancial year,
supporting expected continued growth going forward.
6 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2006
Business Review
– Group CEO’s
Operating Review Business Review
– Group CEO’s
Operating Review
Compound Semiconductors
For Compound Semiconductors, we are now providing some 20% of the overall mobile handset market with 4-way and
above mobile phone pHEMT switches, which is around an 80% share of the addressable market. Continued market
adoption of our type of switches is expected to reach 80% of overall mobile phone market over the coming three years.
As a result of a detailed assessment of future wafer requirements, we have phased our plans for capacity increase and
we are currently undertaking this expansion in line with forecast demand for the current ﬁnancial year.
Therefore our ﬁnancing plan for the growth of Compound Semiconductors requires less than £15m of additional cash
for this ﬁnancial year, after which the business is targeted to be self-ﬁnancing.
With the proﬁle of capacity deployment, revenue growth of over 25% is therefore expected per sequential half year for
the current ﬁnancial year including initial growth in merchant semiconductors and non-switch volume products and
growth in demand to support ﬁlter and backhaul radio products.
Defence Electronics
With its three major contracts substantially complete in the ﬁnancial year ended 31 May 2006, the focus in Defence
Electronics is to secure new business which will mostly generate replacement revenues over the ﬁnancial year and
provide a platform for future growth. In both the UK and US, opportunities have been identiﬁed and are being supported
by appropriate product development activities.
Pension scheme
We are expecting to implement changes to the group’s ﬁnal salary pension scheme at the end of the consultation period
on 31 July 2006 to have beneﬁts based on career average revalued earnings.
As part of this change to the scheme, the company has agreed to provide additional funding of £4.6m on
implementation of the changes to the scheme to fund the actuarial deﬁcit at the date of change. The existing
contribution arrangements remain in place which require that any increases in contribution rates over current levels that
are required to fund deﬁcits would be made two thirds by employee members and one third by the company.
Professor J David Rhodes CBE FRS FREng
Group CEO
31 July 2006
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2006 7
