 Business Review
– Chief Executive Officer’s
Operating Review
Summary
The period saw further changes for the group with the disposal of the UK Defence business to Teledyne. The remaining
Point to Point business experienced a signiﬁcant reduction in demand in the second half of the year which was mitigated
by prompt cost reduction initiatives. The group structure and central costs have been streamlined with the consolidation
of the ﬁnance function alongside the Newton Aycliffe operations.
Continuing operations
Filtronic now comprises solely the Point to Point business which designs and manufactures customised microwave
electronic sub assembly components that are integrated by OEM’s into Point to Point (PTP) radios. These radios provide
the backhaul links for telecom networks, particularly the mobile base station market. Filtronic is the leading merchant
supplier of transceivers and diplex ﬁlters to this market.
The business achieved a strong revenue performance in the ﬁrst half of the year (£18.3m) but there was a signiﬁcant
weakening of demand in the second half (revenue £10.5m) due to general destocking and one customer who
experienced a signiﬁcant downturn in sales in Asia. This necessitated a prompt initiation of overhead and other cost
reduction measures which enabled trading in the second half to be maintained just above breakeven and cash neutrality.
Overall revenue for the year was £28.8m, down from £40.1m in the previous year with an operating proﬁt before
exceptional items of £2.1m compared with £2.5m in 2008. Operating proﬁt before exceptional items in the second half
was £0.3m compared with £1.8m in the ﬁrst half year. Operating margins moved up from 6% to 7% in the year.
Network expansion in developing regions and capacity upgrades in developed regions continue to drive demand for
PTP products. Filtronic is well placed to exploit these markets opportunities as well as extending into adjacent market
sectors.
The ﬁrst order has been received from SELEX Airborne Systems Limited (operating on the markets as SELEX Galileo)
under the long-term strategic supply agreement. This order initiates the development of Filtronic’s volume capability
to manufacture SELEX’s microwave modules for their current generation of active electronically scanned array airborne
radars.
Discontinued operations
UK Defence
Sale of this business to Teledyne was completed in August 2008 producing net proceeds after costs of £12.2m and a gain
on disposal of £8.4m.
Wireless Infrastructure
A gain of £1.3m after taxation was made on the receipt relating to the sale of the Wireless Infrastructure business in
Australia.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure was £0.9m, of which £0.8m related to continuing operations.
Employees
At 31 May 2009, the group employed 152 people (2008 392 people of which 227 were in continuing operations).
Hemant Mardia
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
27 July 2009
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2009 3
