 Chairman’s Statement
The year ended 31 May 2011 produced revenue of £15.5m and an operating loss before exceptional items and the
amortisationofintangiblesof£5.3m,comparedwiththeprioryearrevenueof£15.6manda£0.3moperatinglossbefore
exceptional items from continuing operations. Cash at the end of the year of £4.1m was down from last year’s £16.2m
following the November 2010 acquisition of the Isotek group. A full breakdown of the year is shown in the financial
statements, notes and narrative which follow.
An annual dividend for 2009/10 of 1.00p (£0.7m) was paid to shareholders on 5 November 2010. In light of the higher
operationallosses,theBoardhasdecidedtorecommendnoannualdividendinrespectofthefinancialyearjustended.
In furtherance of our strategy to create a differentiated, high growth and higher margin wireless telecoms business,
Isotek (Holdings) limited was acquired on 15 November 2010 for £4.2m cash plus £6.8m in Filtronic shares (18.55 million
shares). The deal has delivered entry into the rapidly developing 3G/4G base station market sector by acquiring
innovative intellectual property and a position on significant 3G/4G network upgrade programmes.
The Group operations now include two separately reported trading business segments; Broadband which has been
transitioned from the traditional Point to Point backhaul (PTP) business segment and the acquired Isotek wireless
Basestation business.
Broadband Business
Broadband saw a 22% decline in its revenues to £12.1m (2010 £15.6m), slightly better than projected in the latest
communication to shareholders in April 2011. The segment loss before exceptional items was £2.5m (2010 £0.7m profit)
The second half performance was significantly impacted by a sharper than expected decline in sales of traditional
products. The acquisition of a key customer (NERA) in January 2011 by Ceragon Networks resulted in a large reduction
in its purchases of our short-haul radio products. There were, however, positive developments in Broadband strategy to
broaden its addressable market with a new customer and product base, though the growth in sales revenue from these
new activities did not fully compensate for the rapid reduction in Ceragon (NERA) sales. Cost reduction actions taken
following the NERA acquisition at the start of 2011 with an annualised impact of £1.4m were delivering benefits by the
financial year end.
Basestation Business
Inthe28weekperiodsinceitsacquisitioninmid-November2010,Isotekachievedsalesrevenuesof£3.4mandincurred
a loss of £2.0m. The revenue was short of the revised projection made to shareholders in April 2011 of revenue for the
period of around £4m, though this still represented a significant step increase in revenue from the previous 24 week
period of £1.2m. With the business still reliant on a very small number of early stage programmes, a couple of deferrals
by end-customers in the US on significant LTE/4G programmes have had a considerable short-term impact on results.
Whilst the trading performance is disappointing, the group has continued to invest in engineering resource at Isotek to
support these major programmes and to improve product margins on certain products for the forthcoming LTE/4G
network rollouts, as well as expanding sales activity to address additional manifold opportunities for 3G and 4G mobile
network upgrades.
2 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2011 Chairman’s Statement
Outlook
Action has been taken to reduce costs in the Broadband business where an appropriate headcount reduction has been
implemented.MeanwhiletheintegrationoftheIsotekandBroadbandbusinessesisbeingacceleratedacrossthegroup,
and specialist Broadband resources are being redeployed to maximise mobile base station product opportunities. In
parallel, the company is expanding its business development activity on new opportunities for its innovative filtering
products as operational capacity is scaled up.
The group has significantly increased its addressable market to circa $600m estimated for 2012, with channels into
Broadband, aerospace manufacturing and the larger base station market. The addressable base station market for
Isotek filtering products comprises both major network equipment OEMs and a wide range of operators.
Explosive growth in mobile data is leading to a growing market for both new OEM 4G base station filters and operator
network upgrade products to rapidly overlay new capacity onto existing infrastructure.
This growth is particularly evidenced in the US market by a series of network upgrade programs launched by leading
operators.
The group is exploiting these opportunities with unique IP offering cost effective customised solutions with market
leading spectrum efficiency and rapid time to market, enabling operators to maximise valuable assets.
The outlook is expanded upon in further detail in the Operating review.
Finally, I should like to thank all staff in the business for their contribution over the past year.
Howard Ford
Chairman
2 August 2011
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2011 3
