 Business Review
– Chief Executive Officer’s
Operating Review
Summary
Following the acquisition of Isotek in November 2010 the business comprised two trading segments during the second
half of the financial year; Broadband and the new Basestation business. The group continues to execute its strategy to
expanditsaddressablemarketthroughnewproductdevelopmentsandcustomers.Actionshavebeentakentostabilise
the Broadband business and Basestation sales growth is backed by significant opportunities in the rapidly developing
3G/4G base station market.
Operations
The Broadband business designs and manufactures customised microwave electronic sub assembly components that
are integrated by OEM’s into radios. These radios provide the backhaul links for telecom networks, particularly the
mobile base station market. Filtronic is a leading merchant supplier of transceivers and diplex filters to this market.
The Basestation business develops and markets innovative filters and combiners, which enable operators to use their
existing 2G infrastructure to also deliver 3G and 4G services simultaneously. Our products can bring significant cost
savings as well as improving the use of available spectrum.
Broadband first half revenue (£7.1m) was up on the second half of the prior year (£6.0m) but following the January 2011
Ceragon acquisition of Nera there was a significant weakening of demand in the second half (revenue £5.0m). Whilst
actions have been taken to reduce costs the benefits will not be derived until the next financial year, and an operating
loss of £2.5m for the Broadband segment was reported for the year.
Basestation sales grew from £1.2m in the pre-acquisition 24 weeks to £3.4m in the post acquisition 28 weeks. However
margins were tight prior to the delivery of production cost improvements possible on volume products, and a loss of
£2.0m was reported for the period.
The group continues to invest in future product development, investing £3.5m in R&D during the year. This included
continuingworksupportedbyaresearchgrantawardedbyYorkshireForwardwithsupportfromtheEuropeanRegional
Development Fund to assist in the development of a new product to target the emerging market for 4G mobile
broadband services. This and other major programs are scheduled for completion by the end of 2011, leading to
reduced costs in the second half of the coming financial year.
Operational cash outflows of £4.4m (primarily in the second half), were added to by acquisition related cash outflows of
£5.8m, capex of £0.9m and dividends of £0.7m to explain the cash outflow of £12.1m in the year.
Overall revenue for the year of £15.5m, was similar to last years £15.6m, with an operating loss before exceptional items
and intangible amortisation of £5.3m compared with a £0.3m loss in 2010.
Exceptional costs of £0.6m (2010 £0.8m) included acquisition related costs of £0.5m and redundancy costs incurred in
the Broadband costs reduction program.
Broadband Business
There are more encouraging signs for the Broadband business at the start of FY2012. Though first half on first half
comparisons will continue to be impacted by the Ceragon reductions and mature product phase-outs, there is now
better forward visibility in both these areas, and activity has stabilised. The second half will start to benefit progressively
from sales to the new customers of higher margin products as detailed below. The overall expectation is for FY2012
Broadband sales of just above £10m with broadly balanced halves.
As outlined in the statement to shareholders in April 2011, the growth in new programmes to a broader customer base
will have an increasingly positive impact through FY2012. The business has secured initial production orders on Selex
Galileo electronic radar programmes; production of the Multi-Chip Package semiconductor solutions for an OEM
backhaul customer is ramping successfully; and initial customer orders for gigabit radio modules are being executed.
4 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review
– Chief Executive Officer’s
Operating Review
Meanwhile, the business has established a constructive working relationship with Ceragon that gives greater clarity
about recovering levels of long-haul product demand over coming months. Actions to reduce costs earlier in 2011,
combined with ongoing fixed cost reductions should result in an annualised benefit of some £2m by the second half of
FY2012.
Basestation Business
There are indications that volume shipments should resume later this calendar year for the projects delayed in the final
quarter, as these programmes are required to enable the relevant US carriers to address well documented capacity
constraints.
There are encouraging signs deriving from the expansion of business development activity, particularly in the USA,
where our US subsidiary Isotek Inc is now participating in a number of OEM programmes involving network operators
AT&T,VerizonandmostrecentlySprint,whoareengagedinaddingLTE/4Goverlaytomeettheeverincreasingdemand
for mobile data capacity. Although these programmes are as yet in early stage regional roll-out, OEM funding of our
productionforanumberoftheseprogrammesunderpinsourvolumeproductionexpectationsforthenext6-12months.
Additionally, the sales initiative to address the US operator market has also begun to bear fruit, with demonstrations of
filter or combiner products being planned with a total of five operators to address immediate capacity constraints.
Asexpected,thedevelopmentoftheLTE/4GmarketinEuroperemainsbehindthatoftheUSAduetoregulatorylicence
timing. However, volume shipments of filter products to a major operator commenced in May, and will form the
backbone of Isotek’s European revenues in the first half of FY2012.
The challenge for Isotek during FY2012 is to convert the sharply increased level of customer enquiries for product
sampling into a number of volume programmes. The business continues to budget for a significant step up in Isotek
revenues to circa £15m for the year based on the increased customer activity together with current program insertions,
though as previously stressed the revenues will be weighted towards the second half.
Employees
At 31 May 2011, the group employed 159 people (2010 139) including 51 in the Basestation business.
Hemant Mardia
Chief Executive Officer
2 August 2011
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2011 5
