 23459.04 15 August 2014 12:40 PM Proof 10
Chairman’s letter
The year ended 31 May 2014 (FY2014) was an important 
developmental year for Filtronic. The group saw the 
introduction of several new products and was involved in a 
number of custom projects which have led to design wins with 
both original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and network 
operators. Disappointingly, sales revenue reduced to £32.9m 
(2013: £40.0m) with an operating loss before exceptional 
items and the amortisation of intangibles of £0.4m (2013: 
£3.1m). The reduction in sales revenue and profit resulted 
from the conclusion of a significant project to deliver 4G (LTE) 
interference mitigation filters, which completed in the first half 
of FY2014, and a longer lead time for expected contracts from 
new design wins with OEMs. 
Sales revenue in the Wireless business was £23.2m (2013: 
£31.9m) and £9.7m (2013: £8.1m) for the Broadband 
business. Operating profit before exceptional items and 
intangible amortisation was split between Wireless £2.6m 
profit (2013: £6.4m profit), Broadband £2.3m loss (2013: 
£2.4m loss) and central costs of £0.8m (2013: £0.9m). Net 
cash at 31 May 2014 was £2.5m compared with £1.9m; the 
increase in net cash resulted from the unwinding of working 
capital associated with projects at the previous year end 
and the improving shipments and lower inventory holding in 
Broadband. 
Wireless business
During FY2014 the Wireless business worked with a number 
of OEMs and operators to develop customised products, 
including various innovative filters, switchable filters, combiners 
and antennas to support the roll-out of LTE. A number of these 
projects have led to design wins that are anticipated to enter 
production in 2015/16.
In September 2013, the business acquired certain antenna 
assets and with the recruitment of an engineering team, 
predominantly located in Sweden, the group has developed 
a capability to design and manufacture the next generation 
of ultra wideband (UWB) antennas that cover existing and yet 
to be released frequency spectrum. We are pleased to report 
that design wins at four customers have been achieved for 
antennas and these are anticipated to be revenue-generating 
in the second half of FY2015.
The increased market complexity resulting from 4G LTE and 
the need for a heterogeneous network has resulted in a far 
more complex technology landscape. It is expected that 
OEMs will take an ever increasing role in the development of 
integrated equipment which may in the longer term reduce 
the number of operator specific projects available to Filtronic 
and further underscores the rationale of Filtronic working more 
closely with OEMs.
Broadband business
Sales revenues from E-band and V-band backhaul transceiver 
modules have increased through the year and are replacing 
lower margin, legacy product. Sales in the year included a 
last time buy of materials of £2.5m at cost by a long term 
customer to service their potential requirements until 2017, 
which suppressed the profit (as a percentage of sales) for 
Broadband. The current E-band transceiver modules are 
predominantly for ‘carrier grade’ mobile backhaul required 
by larger global operators to connect base stations into 
the mobile communications network. The V-band product 
is primarily used in enterprise solutions and ‘small cell’ 
opportunities. The business also won contracts for the supply 
of microwave devices used in phased array radars in the 
military aerospace market.
Broadband successfully relocated its operations to a new 
location at North East Technology Park (NETPark) in County 
Durham. The relocation has enabled the business to reduce 
its fixed costs and focus its manufacturing capabilities to its 
core competencies. The increased sales revenue and lower 
overheads resulted in a reduced operating loss for the year 
and at the conclusion of the period the business attained 
profitability on a monthly run rate basis. 
Dividend
The board does not recommend a dividend for 2014 (2013: nil).
Board of directors
Mike Brennan left the board in April 2014 and Rob Smith was 
appointed as chief financial officer and director subsequent to 
the year end.
Outlook
Investment in the 4G equipment infrastructure market 
continues to grow and offer significant opportunities for both 
Wireless and Broadband. The number, scale and quality of 
new opportunities continues to be strong and whilst the timing 
and volume of contracts from design wins remains uncertain, 
we expect Wireless to return to growth and with the upturn 
we have seen in Broadband the board is confident about the 
prospects for the business. 
Finally, I should like to thank all staff in the business for their 
contribution over the past year and our shareholders for their 
patience as we continue to position the business to take 
advantage of the significant market growth forecast over the 
next several years.
Howard Ford 
Chairman 
14 August 2014
www.filtronic.com Stock code: FTC
05
Strategic report
