 23459.04 15 August 2014 12:40 PM Proof 10
Summary of year performance
Over the previous few years Filtronic has supplied custom 
Wireless product to a number of operator projects. These 
projects included combiners, tuneable filters and LTE mitigation 
filters that resulted in a rapid growth in sales in FY2013. 
The sales revenue from these projects has been tremendously 
beneficial for the group and has allowed us the time and 
resources to develop and expand our product offering and 
now, with the addition of tower mounted amplifiers and ultra 
wideband (UWB) antennas, we are able to target the OEMs 
with a more complete product range to establish a more 
stable underlying base level of business.
In Broadband it has enabled the company to transition away 
from low margin legacy products and concentrate its efforts on 
the supply of transceiver modules to the E-band and V-band 
markets.
However, as these projects came to their natural conclusion 
and follow on projects were delayed, sales revenue and 
operating profit receded in the second half of FY2014. In 
Wireless, it was our expectation that the take up of potential 
new projects would coincide with the conclusion of some of 
the operator projects. Unfortunately, this has not been the 
case and consequently the sales revenue in Wireless was 
lower than the previous year.
Wireless performance
In the year, Wireless achieved sales revenue of £23.2m (2013: 
£31.9m) and a profit of £2.6m (2013: £6.4m). 
With customer expectations demanding a seamless user 
experience in a heterogeneous network, where all network 
layers need to be integrated together to an unprecedented 
degree, it is our belief that integrated systems of this 
complexity can only be satisfied by the major OEMs. It is this 
market dynamic that has increased our desire to access more 
OEM programmes.
In line with this desire we have now achieved a significant 
number of design wins at key OEMs and expect these to enter 
production through FY2015. Our decision to prioritise OEM 
activity is key to providing the business with a more stable and 
sustainable growth pattern. Whilst we expect to be involved in 
several operator projects we see these as being incremental to 
the base OEM programmes in the longer term.
As stated in the chairman’s letter, we have established an 
antenna business near Stockholm in Sweden. The antenna 
assets acquired included both compact and spherical near 
field antenna measurement ranges and the latest electrical and 
mechanical modelling tools which will enable Wireless to design 
and manufacture a range of UWB antennas for the mobile 
infrastructure market. The addition of antennas to the Filtronic 
product portfolio enables Wireless to combine a number of its 
existing technologies into a system level offering that is relevant 
to the future system requirements of our customers. We are 
pleased to report that design wins at four customers have been 
achieved for antennas and these are anticipated to be revenue-
generating in the second half of FY2015.
Broadband performance
In the year, Broadband achieved sales revenue of £9.7m 
(2013: £8.1m) and a £2.3m loss (2013: £2.4m loss). Sales in 
the year included £2.5m of materials supplied to a customer to 
cover future production needs.
As the business developed, Broadband has been focused 
on its capability to design, manufacture and supply E-band 
and V-band transceiver modules. The E-band modules are 
required for ‘carrier grade’ backhaul applications to connect 
high capacity base stations into the network. As network 
density increases with ever higher capacities, backhaul 
becomes more critical to avoid creating problems. The V-band 
transceiver modules are primarily for enterprise and small cell 
applications.
Our new products are at the leading edge of what is currently 
technically achievable and during FY2014 we have been 
improving our production processes and product designs to 
improve yield and capacity. By the end of the year, yields and 
output had considerably improved and the business achieved 
a profitable monthly run rate. The demand for E-band and 
Chief executive’s statement
£23.2m
Wireless sales revenue.
(2013: £31.8m)
£9.7m
Broadband sales revenue.
(2013: £8.1m)
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2014
06 23459.04 15 August 2014 12:40 PM Proof 10
V-band products is growing and we are embedded in 
a number of OEM programmes which are at the early 
stage of market development. In the year we delivered 
the 10,000th millimetre-wave module and successfully 
completed a customer trial which achieved 1 Gbit/s in a 
250MHz RF channel with an output power of 16dBm.
In addition to E-band and V-band, Filtronic Broadband 
continues to supply to a major defence contractor with 
transmit and receive modules for aerospace, military 
grade phased array radar programmes. This is a long 
term relationship that has required Broadband to develop 
an expertise in high reliability manufacturing and testing 
techniques, which has the added benefit that relates to 
the manufacture and test of E-band and V-band modules.
During the year, Broadband completed the move to a 
new facility at NETPark, Sedgefield, UK. The relocation 
has enabled the business to rationalise a number of 
its processes and enabled us to concentrate on our 
core competencies. This rationalisation has been a major 
contributor to the improved production yields achieved 
through the year and has also resulted in a significant 
reduction in our fixed cost.
Prospects for Broadband have been enhanced by the 
development of E-band and V-band capabilities and the 
reduced cost base. The markets for the business’s products 
are growing rapidly and we look forward to Broadband being a 
major player in its field.
Future developments
The next few years will see a continuance of increased 
demand for data with operators looking to differentiate 
themselves by offering seamless coverage and improvements 
in quality of service. This is likely to see the development of 
heterogeneous networks, networks that are composed of 
multiple radio access technologies, architectures, transmission 
solutions, and base stations of varying transmission power 
to create a seamless user experience. This development 
will drive both of our businesses, with every new frequency 
release providing opportunities for Wireless and the increasing 
requirement for ‘carrier grade’ mobile backhaul providing 
additional opportunities for Broadband. 
As part of our research and development activities we are 
working to develop solutions which will support the market 
trend towards smaller, more compact products encompassing 
the use of alternative materials including ceramic. 
With Cloud RAN and later 5G, which is forecasted to 
commence roll-out in 2020, we expect to see another 
dramatic increase in data volumes and speed of connection.
Filtronic is ideally placed to participate in this market and 
continues to develop its technology roadmap to support these 
opportunities.
Alan Needle 
Chief Executive Officer 
14 August 2014
As part of our research and 
development activities we are 
working to develop solutions 
which support the market trend 
towards smaller, more compact 
products encompassing the use 
of alternative materials including 
ceramic.”
‘‘
Pictured: Transceiver module
www.filtronic.com Stock code: FTC
07
Strategic report
