 4
Chairman’s Statement
My	fir st	full	y ear	as	Chairman	t o	June	
2009 has required Finsbury to negotiate 
the	most	difficult	ec onomic	and	tr ading	
environment since listing on AIM in 2002. 
We have grown our Group quickly since 
inception by focusing on strong above 
market growth trends for premium and 
healthy bakery products. The current 
recession has negatively impacted both 
these sectors’ growth trends, we believe 
t empor arily ,	and	nec essitat ed	fle xing	
of	our	pr oduct	off ering	and	oper ating	
strategies during 2009 to meet customer 
and consumer trends towards more value 
conscious food consumption.
Business Performance
Given these conditions, our ability to 
gr o w	sales	8%	ahead	of	last	y ear	(2%	on	
a	lik e	f or	lik e	basis)	is	enc our aging	and	
demonstrates the resilience and spread 
of our businesses. However, our operating 
margin declined by 2% as a consequence 
of these market conditions, namely 
consumer purchasing being more value 
and	pr omotion	led,	and	difficulty	in	
r ec o v ering	sufficient	r aw	mat erial	and	
oper ating	c ost	inflation	fr om	cust omer s.
Combined sales from our larger cake 
manufacturing sites were up 2% on the 
prior year, in line with the ambient cake 
market, representing a strong relative 
performance given our greater exposure 
to the higher unit cost premium, 
celebration and healthy sectors most 
impacted by a ‘cash strapped’ consumer. 
Our lower unit price licensed cake brands 
portfolio allowed us to adapt quickly 
to changing consumer behaviour. 
Thorntons branded cakes grew by over 
70% in the year, making it the fastest 
growing brand in the cake market, and 
WeightWatchers branded cakes achieved 
25% sales growth, bucking a decline in 
the overall ambient healthy cake market.
The combined sales from our smaller 
br ead	and	fr ee	fr om	sit es	r eflect	a	str ong	
year with growth of 14% on a like for like 
basis.	W e	benefit ed	fr om	c onsolidating	
our leading position in the fast growing 
free from market, with the acquisition of 
Livwell in April 2008, which is now fully 
integrated with United Central Bakeries 
(UCB).	Nicholas	&	Harris’	speciality	br ead	
business	also	gr ew	significantly	and,	with	
the acquisition of Goswell Enterprises 
L t d	in	June	2009,	has	str engthened	its	
speciality breads licensed portfolio with 
brands such as Vogel and Cranks.
I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank	all	our	staff	f or	their	c ontinued	
commitment and passion which has 
seen	us	thr ough	our	most	difficult	tr ading	
period to date.
Funding and Dividend
New debt and banking facilities have 
been put in place with our bankers, HSBC 
Bank	Plc,	t o	r eflect	the	needs	of	the	
business in the current environment. The 
Board has decided not to recommend 
paying a dividend this year. With limited 
funding available, we continue to invest to 
gr o w	our	business.	W e	r emain	c onfident	
in the potential of the business and 
int end	t o	r e-establish	the	dividend	as	
soon	as	cash	flo w	and	debt	le v els	allo w .
Board Changes
Following the departure of Dave Brooks 
at the end of September last year, I 
would like to thank Martin Lightbody 
for assuming the role of Chief Executive 
Offic er	o v er	the	last	12	months	and	
steering the Group through a tough 
trading period. He has been ably assisted 
by	J ohn	Duffy	whom	w e	r ecruit ed	t o	
strengthen the management team in a 
new	r ole	of	Chief	Oper ating	Offic er .
Having largely completed the business 
integration, it is now the right time to 
restructure the Board for the long term. 
To that end, and with the full support  
of the Board, I have invited Martin to 
r eplac e	me	as	Non-Ex ecutiv e	Chairman	
following the Annual General Meeting  
on 25 November 2009. I will remain  
on the Board and revert to being a 
Non-Ex ecutiv e	Deputy	Chairman.	 
J ohn	Duffy	will	be	joining	the	Boar d	 
with	immediat e	eff ect	as	the	new	 
Gr oup	Chief	Ex ecutiv e	Offic er .
Outlook
Trading conditions are unlikely to improve 
significantly	in	the	shor t	t erm	with	
unemployment rising and a generally 
fragile economic operating environment. 
Our businesses and their customers will 
face continued uncertainty in factors 
such as interest rates and the strength 
of sterling. However, we have probably 
weathered the worst part of the recession 
already and demonstrated the resilience 
of the food market and the Group’s 
businesses in doing so. 
W e will increase investment in understanding our markets and 
consumer needs to better target innovation utilising our unique 
strong quality baking heritage and licensed brands portfolio. Targeted 
investment in capacity in areas such as free from fresh bread coupled 
with further integration of Group businesses and supply chain 
efficiency projects will accelerate a return to profitable growth.
Finsbury Food Group Plc Annual Report 2009 5
We will increase investment in 
understanding our markets and 
consumer needs to better target 
innovation utilising our unique strong 
quality baking heritage and licensed 
brands portfolio. Targeted investment in 
capacity in areas such as free from fresh 
bread coupled with further integration 
of Group businesses and supply chain 
efficiency	pr ojects	will	ac c eler at e	a	r eturn	
t o	pr ofitable	gr o wth.
David Marshall
Chairman
Finsbury Food Group Plc Annual Report 2009
