 6 Finsbury Food Group Plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Report 7 Finsbury Food Group Plc Annual Report 2009
I am pleased with the way we have responded to the challenges 
over the last 12 months, growing Group sales despite our 
premium range focus, and whilst short term profit reduced, 
this is being addressed, as reflected in our improved second 
half performance. 
Entering a full blown recession after a 
period	of	r apid	input	pric e	inflation	was	
not necessarily the ideal time to step 
int o	the	CE O	r ole.	It	has	been	a	difficult	
year for our young Group. The tough 
trading climate encouraged us to force 
the pace on internal integration whilst 
simultaneously	adjusting	pr oduct	r anges,	
operating and sales strategies to meet 
consumers’ changing buying habits. I am 
pleased with the way we have responded 
to the challenges over the last 12 months, 
growing Group sales despite our premium 
r ange	f ocus,	and	whilst	shor t	t erm	pr ofit	
reduced, this is being addressed, as 
r eflect ed	in	our	impr o v ed	sec ond	half	
performance.
Performance
Results for the 53 week period ended 
4	 July	 2009	 ar e	 c o v er ed	 in	 full	 detail	 within	
the Business Review section but there are 
a	f ew	major	elements	that	I	w ould	lik e 
to highlight:
Group sales growth of •	
8% year on year
integration of all Group cake •	
businesses well progressed
integration of Livwell into UCB to •	
create a market leading free from 
business
acquisition of Goswells speciality •	
br ead	business	in	June	2009
strong licensed brand growth with •	
Thorntons becoming the fastest 
growing cake brand
new debt and banking facilities •	
agreed April 2009
launch of innovative fresh free from •	
bread with brand partner ‘Genius’
impr o v ed	pr ofit	perf ormanc e	 •	
in the second half of the year 
– £3.2 million vs £1.8 million
continued investment in our  •	
business with net capital expenditure 
of £0.6 million
significant	incr ease	in	pr omotional	 •	
spend year on year
absorbed	major	c ost	incr eases	and	 •	
impact of sterling weakness
The Group is now more streamlined and 
Group best practice and scale is bringing 
benefit	t o	ar eas	such	as	pur chasing	
and overhead services. Considerable 
investment has been made during the 
year in senior management, systems and 
pr oc esses	t o	r eflect	gr o wing	scale	and	
customer expectations.
Future Prospects
We are not anticipating any let up in the 
curr ent	difficult	tr ading	envir onment	
in	the	shor t	t erm	but	r emain	c onfident	
that if we continue to invest in our more 
integrated subsidiaries, people and 
facilities, as well as in our customers’ 
requirements, we will exit this recession 
a stronger business.
Our market positions are good and 
we are have adapted well to changing 
consumer needs by focusing on relevant 
innovation and product quality utilising 
our unique craft baking experience.
We also see organic growth and bolt on 
acquisition opportunities in our core 
everyday premium and ‘better for you’ 
market segments. I remain excited about 
the prospects for the business.
J ohn	Duffy	has	been	a	v er y	capable 
Chief	Oper ating	Offic er	alongside	me	o v er	
the last 12 months and I look forward to 
supporting him in my new role as 
Non-Ex ecutiv e	Chairman.
Martin Lightbody
Chief	Ex ecutiv e	Offic er
