 My ﬁrst year as Chairman
has been unprecedented in
the history of our business.
It was a year in which we witnessed the
full impact of the recession that had been
widely forecast during the previous period
and one characterised by customers moving
away from the premium products that
have been our traditional area of strength.
Chairman’s Statement
2 I am extremely proud of the way our business has
responded. In an environment dominated by declining
turnover, we have delivered growth in key areas, increased
proﬁtability and restructured the business to achieve
operational eﬃciencies.
Ours is not a Group reliant on mechanised production
processes, what we do is about craft, tradition and
experience. It is precisely those qualities on which
the future of our business depends and will continue
to drive our thinking going forward.
A New Team in the Boardroom
During the course of the last year, we have brought in
a new senior team. John Duﬀy has taken over as Chief
Executive Oﬃcer and Stephen Boyd has come onboard
as Group Finance Director.
Both have signiﬁcant experience of the Food sector,
working in leveraged environments and delivering
operational change in complex businesses. Having built
their respective reputations in the world of Private Equity,
John and Stephen are highly accomplished at managing
relationships with banks and major customers in
a challenging environment.
e new board has been assembled with a view towards
the long term. Rather than focusing on acquisition-led
growth, this is a team capable of dealing with a very
diﬀerent macro environment but positioned to manage
an expanded business once growth returns. It is a team
fully equipped to provide the skills necessary for the
next phase in the evolution of our Company.
Business Performance
During the last 18 months, our focus has been on shaping
and improving performance across the organisation by
delivering eﬃciencies.
Although proﬁts are up, the reality is that sales are
down for the ﬁrst time in our history. Our largest market
in cakes has been heavily discounted, creating the need
to revise our own pricing structures. In addition to the
diﬃculty of implementing price rises under current
market conditions, we have also had to cope with
increased prices of raw materials in some areas.
Against such a testing backdrop, our strategy has
remained robust and resolute. By taking advantage
of growth opportunities and restructuring the Group
to deliver cost savings, we are navigating our way through
difficult trading conditions with the full support
of our bank. We have continued to ease our cash
requirements and remain committed to investing
in growth where practicable.
In a challenging market, there is quiet cause for
celebration. We remain market leaders in free from
bakery, Genius has become a £10 million brand and
our other licensed brands are delivering measurable value.
Behind the scenes, a regular stream of new products
is being launched. e economic tide will turn in
due course and we are continuing to do all the right
things to prepare ourselves for a more positive
trading environment.
In Conclusion
No one can be sure what is around the corner. While
organisations would clearly rather be trading with the
beneﬁt of a tailwind – rather than into a headwind
as at present – trading conditions are likely to remain
challenging in the short term.
is is a time for pragmatism, patience and hard work.
e task is to trade through the next period, stay within
bank covenants, retain shareholder value and position
ourselves for growth in an expanding marketplace.
I am delighted with the progress we have made. Our
smaller divisions have done a great job of managing
to grow while larger divisions pursue their quest for
efficiency. We are continuing to perform in line with
management expectations and I remain confident,
given our quality heritage and brand portfolio that
we will exit this recession in a position of strength.
Martin Lightbody
Non-Executive Chairman
3
“I remain confident, given our quality heritage
and brand portfolio that we will exit this recession
in a position of strength.”
