 Business is never easy.
In times of plenty or famine, those
entrusted with responsibility for their
organisations, and the ﬁnancial welfare
of their employees and shareholders,
have a duty to establish foundations
capable of withstanding subsequent
reversals of commercial fortune.
Chief Executive’s Report
4 Timing, so they say, is everything. Stepping into the role
of Chief Executive Oﬃcer at the height of an economic
crisis may not have been ideal on a personal level.
However, looking back on a testing year, I feel comfortable
that the new board is delivering a restructuring process
that will create enduring beneﬁts for the business.
e results underline our progress to date. We have
responded to a diﬃcult trading climate by adapting
our range of products, developing strategies to meet
the modiﬁed purchasing habits of our customers while
stepping up the pace of internal change.
I feel extremely encouraged by the way our staﬀ have
responded to the challenges of the last 12 months. And
there will be no let-up. As we head into a new ﬁnancial
year, the pace of progress is being maintained and I feel
conﬁdent that our continued investment in people,
products and facilities will continue to serve us well
for many years to come.
Performance
Results for the full 52 week period ending 3 July 2010
are described in greater detail in the Business Review
Section but there are a number of key areas I would
like to take this opportunity to highlight:
• Strong performance of the bread & free from sales
division, registering like for like growth of 9%
• Improved Group margins despite volatility
of input pricing
• Integration of the Goswells bread acquisition
into Nicholas & Harris, providing a branded bread
platform with Vogels
• Sales of orntons branded cake up 5%
• Completion of £2m investment in new fresh free
from bread production facility
• National roll out of Genius fresh free from
branded bread
• New Scottish central cake distribution warehouse
and supply chain systems
• Creation of cake marketing and category
marketing teams
• Successful rescheduling of £4.8m deferred
consideration previously due in the ﬁrst quarter
of the new ﬁnancial year
Future Prospects
Without the beneﬁt of a crystal ball, it would be unwise
to anticipate any dramatic change in the economic climate.
Nonetheless, our position in the marketplace remains
both distinctive and healthy while our commitment to
product quality and innovation is second to none.
Among other recent initiatives, we have put a huge
amount of work and eﬀort into Category Management
– determining what goes where on a supermarket bakery
shelf. is recession will end eventually. When our
major customers decide it is time to lead consumers
into a new era, our job is to be there, working alongside
them to ensure our products are given the prominence
they deserve.
Our vision is clear. Success for this business depends
on trading through the present period, paying oﬀ
a proportion of our debt, remaining within ﬁnancial
covenants, building a ﬁnancial position that is less
leveraged and returning to growth in an expanding
marketplace.
It is upon these criteria that my colleagues and I are
happy to be judged. Looking back on our most diﬃcult
trading period to date, I am delighted by our response
to the challenges we faced. Further hurdles may yet
need to be overcome but I feel greatly encouraged
by the prospects for this business.
John Duﬀy
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
5
“Our position in the marketplace
remains both distinctive and
healthy while our commitment to
product quality and innovation
is second to none.”
