 Chief Executive’s Report
Even when the road ahead is still clearly
a long one, signiﬁers of success provide
not only fresh impetus but redouble the
efforts of all those involved. Finsbury
Foods is emerging from a complex and
exhaustive programme of reorganisation.
Light at the end of the
tunnel is always welcome. 5
“We are pleased to have returned
to organic growth, an important
milestone for the Group.”
Despite the macro economic factors continuing to
buﬀet the business and our customers, our structured
approach has clearly started to bear fruit.
We are pleased to have returned to organic growth,
an important milestone for the Group. Following an
encouraging performance in the ﬁrst half of the year,
I am delighted to report that the underlying trends
strengthened measurably during the second period.
Trading Performance
Results for the full 52-week period ending 2 July 2011
are detailed in full in the Business Review Section but
a number of highlights merit speciﬁc attention:
• Group revenue up 12.6% to £189.6 million
• Underlying proﬁt before tax up 8.3%
to £5.8 million
• Sales in the Cake division up 12.1% to
£139.6 million
• Sales in the Bread & Free From division
up 14.2% to £50.0 million
• Net debt down 10.4% to £32.7 million
• Strong organic growth across all divisions, despite the
exceptional impact of commodity and cost inﬂation
• Licensed brand growth across all divisions
• Working with Genius Foods Limited to expand
the Free From product portfolio
• Re-launch of Vogel’s speciality bread brand
• Adding Disney small cakes to our licensed portfolio
• Banking facilities with HSBC extended to 2017
Reﬂections
e source of cake growth is twofold. Approximately
50% was generated by our UK cake business with the
balance originating from Lightbody Europe (LBE),
a 50% owned subsidiary export operation. Domestic
growth was driven by a combination of own-branded
retailer oﬀerings and increases in promotional deals
and support. Opening fresh sales outlets and distribution
opportunities in France stimulated LBE’s expansion.
Other indicators are similarly encouraging. e current
year delivered strong growth in the fresh gluten free
market for our Genius brand and an equally favourable
outcome for our Vogels and Cranks brands in the
speciality bread sector.
e establishment of an agreement in January 2011
with Genius Foods Limited (“Genius”) is aimed
at expanding our fresh bakery free from portfolio
further still.
The difficulties we face should not be underestimated.
e global commodities bubble has exerted unprecedented
pressure on margins. Prices for butter, sugar and wheat
have soared over the past 18 months. I foresee no respite
in commodity or general cost inﬂation in the near term.
Pressure, if anything, is likely to increase the impact of
such factors, redoubling our efforts to alleviate price
rises by focussing on internal eﬃciencies and productivity
initiatives.
Keeping things affordable for consumers is essential.
Where circumstances permit, we will modify our product
range to meet the demands of a fragile marketplace,
working with our major customers to do so. Our interests
are mutual. ey want good suppliers and we want to
be a good supplier.
In the wake of a fresh egg dioxin scare, retailers brieﬂy
removed a small selection of Memory Lane branded
cakes from their shelves in January. At all times, the
products remained safe for consumption, no public
health risk was involved and the matter has now been
successfully resolved.
Looking ahead, the business environment is set to
remain diﬃcult for suppliers like ourselves contending
with a global inﬂationary commodity environment on
the one hand, and a concentrated customer base with
the ability to control the market through volume on
the other.
Although consumer conﬁdence remains low and the
inﬂationary environment is diﬃcult to predict, I believe
that fresh growth opportunities will continue to emerge.
Our approach remains pragmatic. e cost-out phase
of internal activity is over; emphasis is on maximising
the beneﬁts of recent acquisitions to drive longer-term
value and grow our existing businesses.
I am delighted that we have succeeded in steering the
Group through another demanding year. e reality is
that testing times still lie in wait. However, our distinctive
range of products, commitment to value and robust
performance in a testing climate augur well for the
challenge ahead.
John Duﬀy
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
