 Chairman’s Statement
Toughness combined with appetite for
the challenge, commitment to hard work
and uncompromising dedication to
the task.
Tough times demand
a resilient mindset. All these qualities, and a good deal more, have been
widely in evidence at Finsbury Food Group over the
past year. Together, the combination has generated
a trading performance that provides quiet cause for
satisfaction and real grounds for encouragement
going forward.
I am delighted to report a 12.6% rise in Group revenues
over the current year and an 8% increase in underlying
profit before tax. In a value-focused recessionary
environment, growth has returned to our cake business.
Double-digit growth in our speciality bread & free
from businesses conﬁrm that even in a recessionary
period, consumers are prepared to pay for quality.
Investment in people has provided the lynchpin. Over
the last few years, Finsbury Food Group has invested
heavily in category management, new product development
personnel and marketing skills. That investment has
helped to create a far-reaching insight into our customers
and an increasingly compelling series of offers in the
marketplace.
It is our stated intention to help consumers through the
recession. Doing so demands continual focus on options
and choice, whether in the form of optional treats,
celebration birthday cakes or lower cost items for lunch
boxes. Innovation and adaptability are paramount.
Input price inﬂation is clearly a matter of concern,
particularly in such a low margin industry. Commodity
prices for sugar, ﬂour and butter have reached record
levels and have inevitably impacted on our operating
margins. Rising sales together with savings from
efficiency projects have largely offset the impact
of commodity price inﬂation but recouping costs
has become an imperative.
After a period of far-reaching change in the boardroom,
a stable year has enabled individuals to get on with the
jobs they were brought in to do. I ﬁrmly believe the results
we are seeing reﬂect not only that degree of stability but
also the completion of the integration programme that
has occupied so much time and resource over the last
three years.
Progress extends beyond statistical growth. I am also
pleased to report that we are continuing to pay down
debt, cash ﬂow remains healthy and EBITDA ﬁgures
bear out our operational durability.
e Group recently renegotiated our banking facilities
with HSBC. is enables us to adjust for growth and
provides cash to cover deferred consideration due
throughout the year. HSBC have eﬀectively broadened
their debt proﬁle with Finsbury Food Group, underlining
their continued confidence in the business. HSBC’s
support is greatly appreciated.
Further obstacles must be overcome. Consumer conﬁdence
remains fragile, disposable incomes are under threat,
public sector cuts have yet to be fully implemented –
all factors potentially suppressing demand still further.
e reality is that the next 12 months are likely to prove
testing but our track record in resisting recessionary
inﬂuences has been exemplary thus far.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks
to my fellow Directors as well as members of staﬀ across
the Group. Our trading results bear witness to the
collective pride of performance and sense of ownership
that drives our business. Scale beneﬁts from the Group
we’ve constructed are founded upon a philosophy of
continuous improvement. Getting better in what we
do every single day is the focus of conversation.
Another challenging year lies ahead. However, Finsbury
Food Group has already demonstrated a level of resilience
greater than many would have anticipated. Our course
is set. We shall continue to strive to improve proﬁtability,
pay down debt, reinstate the dividend and nurture the
growth of our businesses.
When the time is right and economic circumstances
permit, your board will seek out the acquisitions aimed
at furthering the pace of growth. Until such times, we
will continue to pursue the growth and eﬃciency model
of recent years, building upon the foundations already
secured.
Martin Lightbody
Non-Executive Chairman
3
“Another challenging year lies ahead. However, Finsbury Food Group
has already demonstrated a level of resilience greater than many
would have anticipated.”
