 4
Chief Executive’s Report
Transformation does not happen overnight.Nor is change,as
is widely believed,born of sudden shifts in direction,approach
or strategy.Meaningful change is delivered in increments.It is
generatedbyagradualevolution,thesubtlereshapingofthekey
elements of a business.
Progress+
Community
Patience,perseverance and commitment are the unsung
heroes of corporate transformation.Real change
takes time.
Afterthreeyearsofunstintingeﬀortacrossthecompany,
thefruitsofchangearebeginningtoemerge.Itgivesme
greatpleasuretoreportasigniﬁcantriseintopandbottom
line growth for the current ﬁnancial year.
Ourpremiumtraditionalbespokeproductsprovidedthe
engine of progress.In a particularly strong performance
during ﬁrst half of the year,we succeeded in growing
faster than the marketplace that we serve.To achieve
such a degree of growth speaks volumes for the quality
and breadth of our oﬀering.
We cannot make something for nothing.The sheer hard
workandenthusiasmofourstaﬀwasprimarilyresponsible
for maintaining progress in the second half of the year.
This was despite another exacting year of cost inﬂation
and the necessity of having to conduct diﬃcult
conversations with many of our customers.
Trading conditions remain onerous but I am delighted
at the manner in which our business has responded.
Maintainingthepaceofprogressdemandsstayingnimble
onourfeet,adaptingourrangeofproductsinlinewiththe
modiﬁedpurchasinghabitsofourcustomers.Byblending
commitment to value with our core strengths of craft,
innovation and expertise,I feel conﬁdent that we shall
continue to advance.
TradingPerformance
Resultsforthefull52-weekperiodending30thJune2012
are described in greater detail in the Business Review
Section but there are a number of key areas I would
like to take this opportunity to highlight:
• Group revenue up 9.4% to £207.4 million
• Underlyingproﬁtbeforetaxup11.6%to£6.5million
• SalesintheCakedivisionup9.2%to£152.4million
• Sales in the Bread and Free From division up 10.0%
to£54.9milliondrivenbystronggrowthinthefresh
gluten free market,Vogel’s brand growth and fresh
Free From own brand
• Total net debt (excluding bank fees) down 8.6%
to £33.9 million
• Signiﬁcant organic growth across all divisions,
notwithstanding the impact of commodity and
cost inﬂation
• Continued expansion of our 50% owned subsidiary
Lightbody Europe
• Creation of fresh Free From own-branding
opportunities with major supermarket retailers
• Launch of Heston’s Hot Cross buns withWaitrose,
supported by EasterTV marketing campaign
BroaderBrushstrokes
Organic growth in the current environment provides
a ringing endorsement of our products.However,cost
inﬂation continues to exert considerable pressure on
margins,the prospect of further price increases casting
a shadow over our eﬀorts.
Restructuring measures in recent years have generated
exceptional cost savings across the business.Over the
last 12 months,with such savings primarily realised,
eﬃciency measures moved centre stage.
Inaparticularlystrongperformanceduringﬁrsthalf
oftheyear,wesucceededingrowingfasterthanthe
marketplacethatweserve. 5
We are constantly striving to reap the scale beneﬁts
of our businesses,becoming more eﬃcient in the use
ofrawmaterials.Stringenteﬀortshavebeenmadeto
remove non value-added processes in all our factories,
squaring the circle of keeping costs down to oﬀset the
rising price of raw materials.
We have also tried to do things diﬀerently,using
ingredients in a more inventive fashion.One prime
example was the creation of a higher value Disney Car
cake,a distinctive product enjoying prime position
on supermarket shelves.
Inthemidstofsuchatestingperiod,managementteams
across the business have responded with resolve and
expertise.Inparticular,Iwouldliketorecognisethemajor
contributionbynewpeoplecomingintothebusinessover
the past few years.
Thebusinessisemergingfromaperiodofhiatus.Wehave
demonstrated our ability to grow in organic fashion,
tradingourwaythroughdiﬃculttimesinamarketplace.
Much,ofcourse,hasstilltobedone.Aswellascontinuing
to grow our existing businesses,the Board is resolved to
pay down debt,build a balance sheet that is signiﬁcantly
less leveraged and create long-term value.
Thedayjoboﬀersmoreofthesameoverthenexttwelve
months and our mindset is ﬁxed accordingly.No matter
what the timeline may be,I feel conﬁdent that the
pragmatic foundations so carefully laid down in recent
yearsaresettoproduceenduringbeneﬁtsforthebusiness.
JohnDuﬀy
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
“Thesheerhardworkandenthusiasmofour
staﬀwasprimarilyresponsibleformaintaining
progressinthesecondhalfoftheyear.”
