 2
Chairman’s Statement
Despitetheongoingrealityofarecessionaryenvironment,
ourtradingperformancebearswitnesstothefruitsofhard
work across the Group.
IamdelightedtoreportthatFinsburyFoodshasachieved
an increase in top and bottom line growth in the current
trading period.
For the ﬁrst time in our history,Group sales have
surpassed £200m.Revenue from cakes across UK and
Europehasgrownby9%,BreadandFreeFromregistering
acombineduplift of 10%.
Traditionalareasofstrengthcontinuetoexpandwhileother
sectors oﬀer further encouragement.The introduction
of fresh gluten free bread received a warm welcome in
the marketplace while our expansion into retailers own
brands continues apace.In addition,Vogels speciality
breads enjoyed a successful relaunch and Nicholas &
Harrisotherspecialitybreadproductsperformedstrongly.
One area of notable growth is in our 50% owned
subsidiary Lightbody Europe.Over the last 18 months,
therangeofoﬀeringshascontinuedtoexpand,broadening
beyond cakes into other UK branded products.
While the trading performance is clearly encouraging,
satisfaction must be tempered with concern at events
beyond our power to inﬂuence.
Input price inﬂation continues to impact on operating
margins with prices for commodities such as sugar and
eggs moving steadily upwards.
The situation for consumers shows little sign of
improvement.Our customers are faced with shrinking
disposable incomes and the very real dilemma of trying
to make ends meet while buying good food.
Weoperateinatreatcategory.Peoplewanttocomedown
the cake aisle and purchase our products for themselves
and their families.They are willing to be engaged;they
want to see something new,bakery goods that are
appealing and aﬀordable.
Ourresponsehasbeentoengageandinnovate.Overthe
last 12 months,Finsbury Foods has increased spend on
Category Management initiatives,conducting market
research and trialling new products with the speciﬁc
aim of stimulating consumer awareness.
Our major customers actively value our input.They are
looking to us as a large bakery Group to help them ﬁnd
ways of reﬁning and improving their product range
to generate growth.
Theeﬃcacyofourapproachisborneoutbyrobustlevels
ofcashﬂowgeneration.Havingrenegotiatedourbanking
facilities with HSBC during 2011,the Group paid oﬀ
£3.2 million of deferred consideration with £1.2 million
remaining at the end of the year,an important marker
in terms of how people see the business.
Intoday’senvironment,debtishardlyviewedinapositive
light.Reducingourleveloftotaldebtincludingdeferred
consideration to EBITDA to 2.7 by the 30 June 2012
year end represents another major accomplishment.
Aslongaswecontinuetogeneratecashﬂowatpresent
levels,the Group will break free of self imposed
constraints regarding new investments.
Business has never been more of a challenge.Steering a major
bakery Group through the stormy seas of an economic downturn
was never going to be painless.Navigatingacoursetosafehaven
demandedclarityofvision,collectiveresilience in the face of
setbacks and a team committed to excellence and innovation.
Excellence+
Innovation
Fortheﬁrsttimeinourhistory,Groupsaleshavesurpassed
£200m.RevenuefromcakesacrossUKandEuropehas
grownby9%,BreadandFreeFromregisteringacombined
upliftof10%. 3
“IamdelightedtoreportthatFinsburyFoods
hasachievedanincreaseintopandbottom
linegrowthinthecurrenttradingperiod.”
FinsburyFoodshasasuccessfultrackrecordofacquiring
high-quality,innovative food businesses.Historically,
our acquisition skills have been demonstrated to good
eﬀect, investing in business that provide a strategic ﬁt
andhelpingthosebusinessesgrow.Asandwhenthetime
is appropriate,I feel conﬁdent we will demonstrate
those skills once again.
Finsbury Foods remains a steady food business,
performing wellinadiﬃcultmarket.Therealityis,
however,that the sectorinwhichweoperatewillgrow
atarelativelymodestrate in coming years.
Another testing period lies ahead but I am delighted
with the progress we have made.Our focus has been,
and will continue to be,on doing the right things on
behalf of the shareholders.The formula we’ve pursued
will remain steadfast,maintaining the pattern of growth
in proﬁtability alongside a signiﬁcant level of debt
repayment,underpinned by a commitment to meeting
the needs of our customers and consumers.
MartinLightbody
Non-Executive Chairman
