 4
Trading Performance
Results for the full 52-week period ending 29 June 2013 
are described in greater detail in the Business Review Section
but there are a number of key areas I would like to take this
opportunity to highlight:
• Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations 
rising 19.3% to £5.5m (2012: £4.6m) 
• Group revenue from continuing operations down 1.3% 
to £176.6m driven primarily by currency fluctuations 
in our overseas subsidiary
• 17% sales growth in bread driven by growth of licensed 
brands (Vogel’s, Cranks and Village Bakery)
• Net debt reduction from £33.9m to £7.4m
• Fully subscribed Equity placement in Nov 2012 raising 
£3.8m for capital investment projects 
• Sale of Free From business for £21m in February 2013
• Restructured balance sheet capable of funding further 
capital investment and M&A 
• Debt to EBITDA ratio down to below 1x 
(2009 peak was nearly 5)
• Dividend reinstatement (last paid in 2008)
• Bakery Awards supplier of the year 2013
Results in Perspective
It was a mixed year in our core UK Bakery division. Th e bread
business maintained long-term growth trends; the business
has doubled in size over the last five years, benefitting from 
an increased demand for artisan and organic products. 
Th e cake business endured tougher trading conditions. 
Sales in the UK were relatively flat while performance in
the Overseas division was adversely impacted by exchange
rate fluctuations. 
Elsewhere, growth was in evidence across the Group. 
Th ornton’s cake business registered a 20% jump in sales and
our Marvel Film franchise continues to thrive. Th e Me To
You licence came on stream in the second half of the year, 
a highly promising year-round gift proposition. We also
launched Disney Celebration cakes in Australia, a unique
product in that marketplace.
Closer to home, UK consumer behaviour presents a dichotomy.
Both ends of the grocery scale are exhibiting signs of expansion
but the middle is under stress. Consumers are buying treats
where they perceive uniqueness or real quality, shopping
across locations to obtain the optimum mix. 
It’s hard to keep growing at 17% if your major customers are
not but our coverage is reassuring. For example, Finsbury Foods’
speciality bread business is significantly weighted towards
Sainsbury’s and Waitrose; they are growing and we are growing
alongside them. We are working to retain a strong presence
where there is growth, resisting the temptation to chase 
volume where doing so would be imprudent.
Regrettably, the economic environment remains unhelpful with
promotional activity at unsustainable levels in most categories
of food. Commodity prices have settled down marginally, we
haven’t witnessed the huge fluctuations of recent years. Overall,
however, trends remain upwards with marked volatility in key
ingredients such as wheat, eggs and sugar.
One of the reasons for investing so significantly in the businesses
going forward is that the only way we can square the circle
of keeping prices keen for consumers and stimulating deals
is by being a low cost manufacturer. We’ve spent a lot of time
and eﬀort changing pack sizes, reformulating products and
becoming more eﬃcient. Our managers are pulling every
possible lever to try and make sure we get back to sensible
levels of return. 
One of those levers involved securing a long-term lease 
on the property adjacent to our Nicholas & Harris bakery.
Building into the space from our existing facility will add 60%
of extra production capacity. Securing the space is strategically
significant, an unambiguous signal of our intention to mature
into becoming a £50m speciality bread business.
Growth remains the priority. It is a significant achievement
to have guided the company through such a diﬃcult period
but further evolution is essential. 
We need to keep investing in first class machinery, presenting
consumers with fresh ideas and products while continuing
to develop the shareholder base. I have no doubt that Finsbury
Food Group will continue to achieve our growth objectives,
both organically and by acquisition. Th e signs may be propitious
but, in many respects, the real work has yet to begin.
Light at the end of the tunnel is always welcome. While the precise
length of the tunnel remains a matter of debate, it is pleasing to reflect
on a year in which the enduring efforts of senior management and
staﬀ at all levels of Finsbury Foods generated demonstrable progress. 
Chief Executive’s Report Growth remains the priority.It is a significant
achievement to have guided the company through
such a difficult period but further evolution 
is essential.
John Duﬀy
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
