 2
I am pleased to report that underlying operating profit from
continuing activities for the financial year ended June 2013
has risen to £7.4m from £7.2m. Debt and interest costs have
been substantially reduced and the Board has proposed a final
dividend of 0.5p, amounting to a total dividend of 0.75p for
the year.
Progress is founded on a combination of factors. Finsbury
Foods has continued to develop our licensed and retailer brand
portfolios providing bakery goods that are attractive and 
aﬀordable for consumers. We maintain first class relationships
with grocery multiples, focusing on the specialty brands that
remain appealing even in tough times.
In November 2012, a successful equity placing during the
first half of the year raised £3.8m to fund capital investment
projects in our core cake business. Th e placement attracted 
a welcome blend of new and existing institutional investors,
indicating a long awaited shift in market perception towards
Finsbury Foods.
In February 2013, our Free From business was sold to Genius
Foods for £21m on a debt-free, cash-free basis, with £18m up
front and a further £3m due to the Group in 2015. Although
the sale reduces the overall size of the business, the Board
viewed the disposal as a small step back that would allow 
us to take a much bigger step forward.
Th e net eﬀect of those transactions has been transformative.
Total Group debt has fallen from £33.9m in the previous period
to £7.4m, interest charges will also fall, with levels falling
beneath £1m for the next twelve months. Debt to EBITDA
multiples have responded in kind, registering a decline from
just under 5 in 2009 to below 1. 
Of course, consumer markets remain challenging. Weary
consumers have grown increasingly deal focused while 
commodity prices continue to rise. Finsbury Foods has 
responded to the value conscious environment with a series
of cost and product initiatives, reacting nimbly to the
changing needs of the marketplace.
Th e sale of Free From will enable the company to rebase, driving
forward organic growth. £6m has been set aside for new capital
investment projects in our core cake business this year, the scale
of investment demonstrating the depth of our ambition. 
Reinstating the dividend is another statement of intent. 
Returning to the dividend list for the first time since 2008 
is evidence of our ability to reward shareholders for their faith
in the company. Public markets often take a while to overcome
adverse sentiment and the recent rise in the share price 
is gratifying. 
Th e market is beginning to view our story afresh, assessing
the current management team on its own merits, recognising
the inherent value that lies in this business. Our attention 
is starting to turn outwards. It is always convenient, especially
for a Group with a track record of acquisitions, to return 
to M&A activity once the balance sheet has been restored. 
Seeking deals that oﬀer the right synergies and appropriate
benefits is clearly attractive. While this oﬀers a quick way of
progressing the size of the Group, nurturing existing businesses
remains the priority. Investment will build upon the foundations
we have created, bolt-on acquisitions driving long-term value
as and when opportunities arise.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks
to Ian Farnsworth who has stepped down after 15 years of
distinguished service in the boardroom. A warm welcome 
is extended to Raymond Duignan who joined the Board as 
a Non-Executive Director in July and has assumed Ian’s duties
as Chair of the Audit and Remuneration Committee.
We have arrived at a moment of transition: Finsbury Foods has
attained a position of hard-earned stability, trading maturely,
paying down debt and generating cash. We have traded our
way through a diﬃcult market, regenerated all aspects of the
business and completed a strategic disposal that will allow
us to move forward. As we head into a new financial year,
I retain a deep-seated desire to build a business that we can
all be proud of. Excellence and innovation continue to signpost
the way forward, laying the foundations for further growth
and driven by the ultimate objective of creating value
for shareholders.
It was always going to take time. Turning around a Group the size 
of Finsbury Foods demanded a concerted and prolonged eﬀort by a
team with the skill, resolve and foresight to overcome adverse trading
conditions. Although significant challenges remain in our business, 
a degree of momentum has clearly become apparent. 
Chairman’s Statement W	 maintai frs clas relationhp wih groc	ry
ultple, fousig o h	 pecialy rand ha 
remain appealing even in tough times.
Martin Lightbody
Non-Executive Chairman
