 Some Chairmanships are a sinecure. Others demand 
active involvement. Given my preference for the latter form 
of engagement, I am delighted to have assumed the role 
of Chairman at such a pivotal moment in the history of 
Finsbury Foods. 
Chairman’s Statement
A significant corner has been turned in recent years. 
Th e balance sheet is secured, investment in people and
machinery has begun to bear fruit and scale benefits 
are being realised across the business. 
I am pleased to report that our results for the current 
financial year are comfortably in line with the expectations
of the markets and our shareholders. 
We have achieved an encouraging degree of momentum
in a diﬃcult market against a backdrop of increasing
commodity costs. Th ere is a new Board, a fresh attitude
and a sharpened appetite for progress. 
I have worked in the Food and (on and oﬀ ) the Bakery
Industry for almost four decades. Th roughout that period,
two constants have remained unchanged – people and
products. If the product is eﬀective, you have a powerful
springboard. Add the right people and you are primed 
to succeed. 
Both those two elements are in place at Finsbury; we’re
producing great products on a consistent basis and have
outstanding people in all spheres of the business.  
Even in my short time with the Company I have seen
confidence growing across the business; confidence in 
our relationships, confidence in our approach and strategy,
confidence in the direction we’re taking.  
Travelling around our facilities provides further 
encouragement. Th e management team at Cardiﬀ has 
exceptional talent and drive while the facility at Hamilton
is equally well run. We have focused on doubling capacity
at our platform at Nicholas & Harris, which has demanded
internal focus and it is now fully commissioned. 
Corporate governance standards have moved on apace
and our new Board will continue to make significant 
improvements in this important area. Th ere is a lot of
brainpower around the table with comprehensive sector
experience and a smaller Board will help our decision
making become more nimble and decisive. 
I would like to express my gratitude to our shareholders,
to my fellow Directors and to each and every one of our
employees for all their hard work. I would also like to place
on record our continued appreciation for the enduring
support and assistance of our bankers.
Treading water is not an option. Over the next three 
to five years, my tenure will be judged by a number 
of criteria:
a. Improving shareholder value
b. Acting justly and fairly towards our employees 
c. And in a nutshell, growth.
It is a pivotal time for Finsbury Foods. We can bring about
a degree of organic expansion but growth will primarily
be realised through acquisition and mergers.
Th ere is a window of opportunity in the markets and the
Board is actively exploring investment options. Scale will
stimulate fresh routes to market, diversification of our
customer base and a new perception of the Company
among analysts and stakeholders.
Is it possible for a relatively small, listed Group like 
Finsbury to double in size over a relatively short period?
Th e management team believes that it is, providing 
we can find the right opportunities.
We’ve done the hard yards. Finsbury has invested in the
business when others played safe, invested in people when
our competitors did not. We are focussed on helping 
retailers respond to changing consumer needs by oﬀering
solutions that work.
Th e next stage requires foresight, courage and pragmatism.
It demands an ability to sustain the pace of internal
transformation while remaining sensitive to external 
opportunities. Given the obstacles overcome by the business
in recent years, I have every confidence we shall continue
to advance. 
We have achieved an 
encouraging degree 
of momentum in 
a difficult market.
3 4
John Duffy
Chief Executive Officer
REDUCED
COST BASE
INCREASED
EFFICIENCY
