 Finsbury Foods had two very different halves during the 
financial year. The first half maintained the hard-earned impetus
of previous periods. Sales were marginally down but Profit Before
Tax registered a 50% uplift, principally due to the decrease in
interest charges following the sale of our Free From business.
Chief Executive’s Report
Th e second period was more challenging. Commodity price
inflation began edging back upwards with escalating costs
in chocolate, butter, energy and labour. Our historical
customer base was adjusting to meet the threat of value-
oriented discounters and we found ourselves squeezed 
on all sides.  
Refocus was imperative. Around the turn of the year, the
management team set about eliminating £1m in annualised
overhead costs and implemented a dramatic increase in
capital spend. Significant projects included the installation
of leading edge robotics at the cake factory in Scotland
and extending space at Nicholas & Harris by 60%. 
At the end of another exacting year, it gives me great
pleasure to report a further rise in bottom line growth.
We have good momentum slightly disguised by a poor
market, underlining yet again our ability to achieve 
consistent results under demanding conditions.
Trading Performance
Results for the full 52-week period ending 28 June 2014
are described in greater depth in the Strategic Report 
but there are a number of areas I would like to take this 
opportunity to highlight:
• Group revenue from continuing operations 
£175.7 million (2013: £176.6 million) 
• Profit before tax up 18% to £6.5 million 
(2013: £5.5 million)
• Total net debt £8.8 million (2013: £7.4 million)
• Adjusted diluted EPS 6.3p (2013: 5.9p)
• Final proposed dividend 0.75 pence per share,
amounting to a total dividend of 1 pence per share
(2013: 0.75 pence per share)
• Capital investment spend £6.2 million 
(2013: £4.2 million)
• Investment in single serve cake slice 'snap pack' 
successfully completed during the year as well as the 
largest cake bites robotic picking installation in the world
• Commissioning of speciality bread facility expansion, 
delivering 60% additional space at Nicholas & Harris.
Beyond Th e Numbers
Consumer behaviour has changed, polarising the 
marketplace. Having spotted an opportunity on margin,
Aldi, Lidl and Pound Shops are reporting up to 30%
year-on-year growth. Premium retailers, hindered by low
food inflation, are struggling to retain market share.
For Finsbury Foods, the situation is delicate. Th ere are
self-evident sensitivities between our historical customer
base and the burgeoning new players. Ultimately, you have
to follow the consumer but existing relationships must 
be safeguarded.
Given our recent track record, one area of relative 
disappointment is the speciality bread business which had
been enjoying double-digit growth. A flat year was primarily
caused by market dynamics, specifically the impact of the
so-called ‘Bread Wars’.
Organic growth will be harder to come by. Acquisitions
signpost the route forward but not at any price. Th e Board
has been working assiduously to uncover investment 
opportunities but is not prepared to meet unrealistic 
valuations. I am confident that value expectations will start
to temper in the near future and we will be ready to step in. 
After years of dedicated service, Martin Lightbody has
relinquished the role of Chairman. Having assumed the
mantle under testing circumstances, Martin proved a steady
figurehead during the turnaround phase, carrying out his
duties with dedication and resilience. David Marshall and
Crawford Currie have also stepped down from the Board
after many years service and I would like to thank all three
for the support and contribution.
As of 1 July, the baton passed to the suitably surnamed Peter
Baker. Steeped in industry experience at RHM Consumer
Brands, British Bakeries and Rank Hovis Mills, Peter is
committed to taking a proactive role on behalf of Finsbury,
acting as a conduit for change.
It has taken a lot longer than I hoped or expected to get
to this stage but recognition is spreading. In 2013, Finsbury
Foods received the coveted Bakery Supplier of Th e Year
Award while Martin Lightbody was voted Chairman 
of Th e Year at the Quoted Company Awards.
Finsbury Foods remains driven by a passion to meet 
consumer expectations for aﬀordable quality food. We didn’t
install robots to keep pace with technology but to pass
eﬃciencies down to our consumers, enhancing the appeal
of our category and our cake. 
Our course is set. Th e business environment isn’t going 
to get any easier but doing the right things is the only
long-term solution. We must persevere with internal 
investment, keep scanning the horizon for acquisitions
and the right opportunities will come. 
We have underlined 
yet again our ability to
achieve consistent results
under demanding 
conditions. 
5 6
FOCUSED
EXPERTISE
WIDER
CONTRIBUTION
Peter Baker 
Non-Executive Chairman
Peter Baker joined the Board on 1 July 2014.
Peter has over 30 years’ senior CEO and Board
level experience within the global bakery and
consumer packaged goods industry. Most recently,
Peter held the position of Managing Director
of Maple Leaf Bakery between 2009 to 2013,
moving into this position after the sale of La
Fornaia Bakeries, of which he was the CEO.
Under his leadership, La Fornaia sales and
profits increased significantly, driven by the 
introduction and innovation of new products.
Prior to these roles, Peter held COO and 
Divisional Managing Director positions at RHM
in the Consumer Brands, British Bakeries and
Cereals Divisions (including Rank Hovis Mills).
Peter was previously a Non-Executive Director
at Jordan’s Cereals, now a part of Associated
British Foods. He also served as Vice President
of CIAA (a European trade association for
food and drink).  
John Duffy
Chief Executive Officer
Following a Mining and Petroleum engineering
degree and initial exploration and production
career with Shell International, John Duﬀy
completed a full time MBA and spent the 
following 20 years within the Food Manufacturing
sector. Ten years of Manufacturing and Logistics
Director roles at Mars Inc. were followed by
private equity backed roles as Operations Director
at Golden Wonder in 2000 and Managing 
Director of WT Foods’ largest chilled foods
subsidiary, Noon Products, before and after 
its sale to Kerry Foods in 2005. John has Non-
Executive experience in the broader consumer
goods industry with Denby Pottery and several
smaller start-up businesses. He was appointed
interim Chief Operating Oﬃcer at Finsbury
Foods in September 2008 and oﬃcially took
over as Chief Executive Oﬃcer with eﬀect
from 30 September 2009. 
Stephen Boyd
Group Finance Director
Steve was appointed Group Finance Director
in January 2010. Steve has spent 17 years in the
food manufacturing sector and previously was
Group Finance Director at Golden Wonder,
subsequent to that was Group Finance Director
and Chief Operating Oﬃcer at WT Foods
Group Plc. Steve worked with John Duﬀy 
at both Golden Wonder and WT Foods. 
