 Since joining the Company on 10th March, 
I have been very positively impressed by the
strategy, operations, people and products of
First Technology. I am confident that the
inherent strengths of our technology base,
manufacturing process knowledge and
workforce commitment give us the ability to
build on the resilience of the business and
resume profit growth.
MARKETS
The automotive market worldwide has gone
through another difficult period in the last
twelve months. In North America, the major 
US manufacturers influenced the market with a
series of customer incentives which helped to
increase vehicle production by 2.1% from fiscal
year 2002 and thereby had a positive influence
on our shipments. Similar incentives have not
been evident in Europe where car production
decreased 0.3% from last year. Despite the
incentives, North American inventories at Ford,
GM and Daimler Chrysler increased to a level
of over 70 days - up from about 60 days a year
ago. Intense price pressures from customers and
the trend to further integration of sensor
functions continue.
The Gas Sensing market continues to grow 
and demand for our products remains strong,
especially in the petrochemicals, automotive
emissions and mining segments. We are also
capitalising on some opportunities to sell our
products into adjacent markets such as domestic
boiler flue gas monitoring. We have made
significant further inroads into the fast growing
Chinese market.
The automotive Safety and Analysis market has
also been buoyant this year. All three of the
major markets (Japan, Europe and the US) have
seen year-on-year growth. The drivers were
increases in Side Impact Dummy (SID) crash
testing, consumer vehicle rating programmes
and further regulatory standard upgrades.
NEW TECHNOLOGY
One of the hallmarks of First Technology is our
track record of successful investment in new
technologies which result in the innovative new
products demanded by our customers. Over the
last year we have continued to invest significant
resources in new technology development to a
value of £8 million or more than 6% of
turnover. In addition, our search for the best
available technologies has led us to collaborate
with QinetiQ in the UK - the science and
technology powerhouse recently formed from
the British Government defence research
establishments.
In automotive, this continued collaboration 
has led to the joint development of a Passive
Occupant Sensing Infrared Camera (POSIC),
which has been very positively received by
customers as a potential low cost solution to the
regulated requirement in the US scheduled for
implementation in 2006 for detecting the size
and position of passengers. Encouraging feedback
has been received from Original Equipment
Manufacturers (OEM’s) and in-car trials are
planned in collaboration with customers later
this year. This patented technology still requires
further development and field-testing, but it is
one we are becoming increasingly optimistic
about in regard to future potential.
Another co-development effort with QinetiQ
involves a very low cost battery-less in-tyre air
pressure sensor. Although this market is already
crowded with a number of players and
technologies, we are investigating supplying a low
cost component to an existing system supplier in
a partnership arrangement. This route to market
would provide a quicker, simpler method that
should allow us to evaluate the potential of this
technology with a small investment.
In our optical encoder group, we have been
disappointed in the last year or two with some
delays of promised programmes as sophisticated
steering systems get pushed out by cost sensitive
OEM’s and delays in 42V architecture. However,
we have continued to work on refinements and
validations of our steering sensors and are now
seeing renewed activity as the benefits of the
more advanced steering systems seem to be
getting the attention of the OEM’s.
First Technology 2003
One of the hallmarks of First Technology is our track
record of successful investment in new technologies
which result in the innovative new products 
demanded by our customers.
Chief Executive’s Review 04
John Shepherd
Chief Executive, appointed to the Board in 
March 2003.
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 10 First Technology 2003
We have recently invested in upgrading the
technology used in our condensation sensor to
sense rain as well. We are now developing a
multi-function sensor with the condensation and
rain features combined with our well recognised
solar/twilight/tunnel sensing abilities to provide
the market with a sensor that should provide a
very cost effective product to the OEM’s.
During the period, we have also continued 
our collaboration with the Swatch Group in
Switzerland on the development of a gyroscope
for inclusion in advanced vehicle dynamic
sensing systems and we plan to demonstrate this
to customers shortly.
The investment in gas sensing continues to 
pay dividends, with 24% of 2002/3 sales
coming from products launched in the last 
two years. Key new products include the new
MICROceL
™
range of small sensors. The first 
of these postage stamp-sized sensors, the
MICROpeL
™
catalytic bead device, was
launched in May 2003. A number of industrial
safety instrumentation manufacturers are
currently designing this sensor and its family
members into new instruments for launch in
2003 and 2004, to exploit the reduced size and
weight offered by this family of devices.
Other new sensors entering the market place
include a module for insertion into boiler flues
to detect abnormal and unsafe carbon monoxide
levels, using our exclusive solid state sensing
technology. The US alone manufactures about
3.3 million domestic boilers per year and
detecting toxic carbon monoxide leakage at its
source is important when many of these systems
heat and circulate air from the boiler around the
house. A leading US boiler manufacturing
partner is currently evaluating the device and we
hope to see the first significant sales for this
application in 2004.
We are also investing in the development 
of biosensors to detect hazardous airborne
substances in industrial environments. Areas of
opportunity include industrial processes using
potentially harmful enzymes, such as in the
baking industry and the manufacture of washing
powders, as well as industrial airborne products
from mould in air ducts and concealed in
structural panelling (an increasingly common
problem in buildings, especially in North
America). We have teamed up with and taken
an equity stake in a UK based biotechnology
company to develop and evolve their established
technology into sensors specifically for industrial
applications. The first product for launch in
2004 will be a sensor for subtilisin, an enzyme
which is hazardous to workers engaged in the
manufacture of ‘biological’ detergents.
In Safety and Analysis, new product
development remains an important focus in
order to keep pace with constantly changing
crash environment methods and procedures.
Key developments in the last year include the
iDummy
™
which redefines the concept of a
dummy. iDummy
™
changes the product to an
integrated, intelligent dummy with in-dummy
data acquisition, sensors and network cabling,
with no umbilical cord and no additional mass.
WorldSID (a side impact dummy) is the first
dummy to include the iDummy
™
capabilities.
Demand for new dummy sensors is increasing
and to meet this demand we are actively
developing several new products. 
Protection of people and their environment is key to 
our philosophy: for example, we are investing in the
development of biosensors to detect hazardous airborne
substances in industrial environments.
05
We have established complex production
operations in low cost labour markets
without compromising product quality or
our commitments to our customers. This
helps us to maintain our operating margins
in challenging times whilst offering our
customers more cost effective solutions.
Left: City Technology’s new MICROpeL
™
catalytic bead sensing device.
Right: The revolutionary iDummy
™ 
developed
by our Safety & Analysis team.
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 11 Developing new products
Despite testing times in the commercial world,
our commitment to research and development
remains high. It is vital for the future of the
Group that we sustain the new product pipeline.
To this end, on average, the Group invests 6%
of annual sales in the creation of new products
keeping us at the forefront of our chosen fields
of safety and comfort. In 2003, some 23% of
the Group’s turnover was generated by new
products.
Forging technical partnerships
The recent collaboration between our Automotive
& Special Products Division and UK research
organisation QinetiQ leverages our strengths to
launch new products to market more quickly
and economically. Together, we have developed
an ultra-low cost thermal camera for vehicle
occupant position sensing. The sensor will meet
future Smart airbag regulations, which will
require the sensor to determine occupant size
and position for more sophisticated airbag
deployment.
First Technology 2003
Understanding the needs of our customers 
and responding with technical innovations that 
provide them with high quality cost effective solutions 
is fundamental to our success and future growth
Right
Join the MICRO revolution: pellistor
production at our Portsmouth facility for City
Technology’s new catalytic bead sensor for
combustible gas detection, the MICROpeL
™
Introducing the next generation
Customers in the industrial safety market
challenged City Technology to develop sensors
to enable them to produce smaller portable gas
detectors, integrate gas detection into other safety
equipment, such as helmets and goggles, and, 
at the same time, be more cost efficient. City’s
solution is the new MICROceL
™
range of small,
flat sensors. The first product in the range,
introduced in May 2003, is the MICROpeL
™
combustible gas sensor, which is an impressive 75%
smaller and 95% lighter than existing sensors.
Chief Executive’s Review 06
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 12 First Technology 2003
Below
The more accurate the occupant position sensing,
the more effective the deployment of airbags on
impact and the lower the risk to human life.
Encouraging OEM feedback on the Passive
Occupant Sensing Infrared Camera (POSIC),
the thermal camera being developed jointly by
First Technology & QinetiQ, means in-car
trials are planned in collaboration with
customers later this year.
07
R&D Investment (£’m)
% of Sales
Spend
2.2
5.4
7.7
8.2
8.0
99 00 01 02 03
3.6%
4.6%
5.3%
6.0%
6.3%
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 13 First Technology 2003
OPERATIONS
GAS SENSING
The Gas Sensing division had another strong
year, with sales increasing by 5% year-on-year to
£25.5 million. During 2002/03 the US Dollar
weakened significantly and, as approximately
half of the sales are in that currency, there was
significant erosion of the Sterling value of sales.
At comparable exchange rates, total sales grew
by 7%.
The growth was helped by a very strong
performance from the sale of sensors for
industrial safety applications, with these sales
increasing by 11% during the year. This increase
arose from internal organic growth in the
regulated and legislated industrial safety markets,
combined with taking market share from direct
and vertically-integrated competitors. Demand
from the major markets in this segment remained
strong throughout the year, particularly from the
petrochemical, mining and municipal areas, and
sales of catalytic bead combustible gas sensors
(pellistors) increased by 31%.
Rapidly growing sales of our IRidium
®
infrared
sensor module family also helped sustain growth.
Over 2,000 modules were sold to a number of
vehicle exhaust gas analyser manufacturers in
2002/03. The portable analyser incorporating
IRidium
®
100 manufactured by OTC, a
subsidiary of the US SPX Corporation, has been
particularly successful. During the year, several
other analyser manufacturers in the US, Europe
and the Far East completed the design of the
unit into their new products. Thus, sales of this
sensor module are expected to continue growing
as these new analysers are launched. Sales of the
nitric oxide automotive exhaust gas sensor for
the US regulated market continued to dominate
this small, but significant, niche in 2002/03. 
China continues to be an exciting area of growth
for our safety, flue-gas emissions and automotive
sensors. Total sales to the Far East in 2002/03
increased by 44%. The lower-specification
IRidium
®
50 infrared sensor module was
launched successfully at a major trade show in
China and achieved its first sales there during
the year. There is now a number of very
promising prospects currently sampling the
device for incorporation into locally
manufactured analysers. Many Chinese cities
have extensive pollution problems, exacerbated
by the growing number of cars used as the
middle-class becomes more prosperous and the
Chinese authorities seem determined to reduce
city pollution by 2008 (when they host the
Olympic Games). Much of the enforcement of
the existing emissions regulations is done by
local police forces, equipped with portable
exhaust analysers, and the IRidium
®
50 will
serve this market very well.
We are continuing to focus significant sales and
marketing resources on China and the Far East
and anticipate sustained strong growth in
2003/04 and beyond.
China continues to be an exciting area of
growth for our safety, flue-gas emissions and
automotive sensors as the Chinese authorities
push to reduce pollution ahead of hosting the
Olympic Games in 2008. We anticipate
sustained growth in 2003/04 and beyond.
Sales Analysis - by product
Gas Sensors 20%
Safety & Analysis 17%
Circuit Breakers 16%
Optical Sensors 14%
Fuel Cut Off 13%
Other Auto 12%
Component Distribution 6%
Ceramics 2%
Chief Executive’s Review 08
China is an exciting area of growth for our
safety, flue-gas emissions and automotive sensors.
Total sales to the Far East increased by 44% in
2002/03.
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 14 First Technology 2003
OTHER MANUFACTURING
Automotive and Special Products
In Automotive and Special Products we made
some significant gains in key product areas. 
In US Dollar terms, the solar/twilight sensor
business at Ford was up by 30%, tunnel/twilight
sensor business was up 70% overall and our 
4-Zone solar sensor business increased 35% at
Daimler Chrysler. These gains have been offset
somewhat by continued intense price pressure.
We have continued to make significant
investments in new product development in
order to offset the reducing sales of one of our
original and most profitable products - the Fuel
Cut Off (FCO) switch. The rate of reduction in
FCO sales is partly dependent on how quickly
the function is taken up by the airbag sensors
and is, therefore, difficult to forecast. 
Excluding last year’s one-off cooling fan project
for Ford, overall electromechanical product sales
increased by 10% in US Dollar terms, with sales
of our circuit protection devices for domestic
heating systems performing particularly well,
showing a 32% increase overall from last year.
The market for our communications ceramic
products continues to be depressed and any turn
around from this three year decline is difficult to
predict. However, there was a small increase in
sales over prior year in the second half. The
other ceramic based products - Supplemental
Vehicle Heaters - have fared much better with
shipments more than doubling from the prior
year. Prospects for this product range are good.
We have added further impetus to reducing our
cost of operations during the year and have
focussed on three primary tasks:
•Further reduction of FCO costs
•Improvement of margins and cash flow
•Speeding up introduction of new products
During the year we implemented the difficult
decision of discontinuing manufacturing at our
Farnborough UK facility. This will result in net
annual savings of £0.9 million.
Despite the tough market conditions and the
resultant intense price pressure we have managed
to hold, and in many cases increase, the operating
margins of our automotive products. We have
achieved this through further intensification of
our Lean Manufacturing initiatives by dedicating
more resources to the never-ending task of
eliminating waste and improving the flow in 
our processes. We have continued to increase
production in our Dominican Republic facility
which we have recently expanded for the second
time in three years.
In response to the current US trend of cutting
costs and features from vehicles, we continue to
aim for the development of products which will
be either required on future vehicles or bring
additional value for OEM’s by combining
functionality. Overall, in this division, we
dedicate more than 6% of revenue to new
product development in order to fuel the growth
of the business.
New products and applications introduced in
the last year include:
•Battery Cut Off devices for a dual voltage
North American vehicle.
•Twilight (Headlight Control) sensor for a US
produced Japanese vehicle.
•Combination Solar (Climate Control) and
Twilight sensor for a US produced Japanese
vehicle.
• Combined Tunnel and Twilight sensor on
Audi A8.
• The first Air Quality Sensor commitment
from Ferrari who will also take the First
Technology Solar/Twilight and Condensation
sensors.
•A Dual Zone Solar sensor for multiple
European customers.
•A combined Solar/Twilight sensor for Volvo.
All of these products have either recently started
shipment or will start in the next eighteen
months.
Our Automotive & Special Products Division
continues to focus on the development of multi
feature sensors in response to the continued
pressure from OEM’s to maximise functionality
at minimum cost.
09
North American Automotive Market
Big 3 Production FT Fiscal YoY 
(%)
Fiscal 1st 2nd Month
Year Half Half of April
2003 Year Year 2003
GM 4.6 8.0 1.1 -19.9
Ford 1.2 9.4 -6.9 -11.9
Daimler - Chrysler -1.3 5.1 -8.3 -11.0
Total NA Car & Truck 2.1 7.8 -3.7 -14.1
European Production -0.3 0.4 -0.5 -0.5
Our Automotive & Special Products Division 
continues to focus on the development of multi-feature
sensors in response to the continued pressure from
OEM’s to maximise functionality at minimum cost.
Source: Automotive News
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 15 First Technology 2003
Our specialist in-house resources and experience
enable us to engineer our ideas and licensed technology
into effective designs, capable of volume manufacture,
to solve the challenges given to us by our customers.
Right
Technology helps lessen the burden on vehicle
manufacturers created by ever increasing
legislated test requirements. First Technology’s
virtual dummy family is valued by OEM’s as a
key tool when it comes to designing crash-
worthiness into their vehicles.
Building customer relations
It is vital that we nurture strong relationships
with both new and existing customers. We are
proud to provide our customers with ongoing
technical support and innovative response to
their feedback. We offer novel, high
performance products designed to answer the
needs of our customers. We believe in solutions
designed for high volume production to
promote efficiencies and lower costs.
Creating the virtual dummy
Vehicle design is an expensive process and since the
early 1980s, OEM’s have been using computer
simulation of crashes in order to minimise the
number of real vehicle crash impact tests. Original
dummy models were relatively unsophisticated,
limited both by the level of computer power and
the software technology. In the mid 1990s, our
Safety & Analysis Division initiated the
development of a complete line of finite element
dummy models. The goal was to create highly
accurate, detailed and robust models specifically
designed for the end user application - safer vehicles.
Maintaining the dummy family
We are continually improving and expanding
the finite element family. The dummy library
now includes 10 separate dummies, the latest
addition being the SID-IIs, a side impact
dummy representing a small adult female. The
SID-IIs is specified by the Insurance Institute
for Highway Safety (IIHS) in a brand new side
impact procedure. Demand for this model is
high as OEM’s use simulation to understand
this new test quickly and cost-effectively.
Chief Executive’s Review 10
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 16 First Technology 2003
Above
Simulations that needed a multi-million dollar
super-computer in 1995 can now be
accomplished on a cluster of PCs costing just
$20,000. This drives the need for more detail
and accuracy in the models which are now
going through their third round of complete
upgrades.
11
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 17 Safety and Analysis
This division had a record year with sales up
24% in US Dollar terms. All three of the major
markets (Japan, Europe and the US) enjoyed
year-on-year increases in shipments despite 
the fact that the overall automotive market
remained difficult. 
Consumer vehicle ratings and safety awareness
remain the drivers for this business. Key items
which have continued to drive the business
forward include EuroNCAP adopting the ES-2
(mid-size male) dummy to rate vehicles in side
impact crash tests, the US Insurance Institute
for Highway Safety (IIHS) adopting the SIDIIs
(small female) to rate vehicles in side impact
crash tests and also adopting a new test that
represents a sports utility vehicle or truck,
because of the growing number of truck to car
side impact crashes in the US.
In the US the government announced plans 
to upgrade the current side impact standard
following the lead of the consumer test
programmes. The new ES-2 and SIDIIs
dummies are proposed candidates to be used in
tests mandated by this standard. The proposed
rule will address new injury areas including the
head and abdomen. In Europe, regulators are
considering upgrading the European side impact
standard using our ES-2 dummy. These pending
US and European rule changes are positive
developments for future sales.
During the last year, the WorldSID programme
came to fruition with the shipment of 7 pre-
production dummies. These dummies represent
the second version of this new product and were
shipped to most of the world’s OEM’s. The
prototypes will be tested and evaluated during the
next several years, after which consumer tests or
legislation will drive the extent of additional sales.
Sales of the First Technology Safety Systems
(FTSS) virtual dummy software, known as the
Finite Element Models (FEM’s), continued to
grow for the fourth straight year, improving
40% on top of last year’s 50% increase in local
currency terms. The FEM’s are the standard test
device to optimise restraint systems in pre-
production simulations. Virtual crash tests
provide additional test data to evaluate new
regulations and restraint designs. Our customers
are demanding more complex models which
require upgrades to earlier FEM’s developed five
First Technology 2003
years ago. This range of products provides a
useful aftersales income stream.
Another key driver for growth is our continuing
push to provide local technical support near our
customers in the US, Far East and Europe.
Service Centres in Liberty, Ohio; Nagoya, Japan;
Heidelberg, Germany and Delft, Netherlands
continue to expand our ability to provide full
service and repair facilities to meet customer
demands. Recent awards to these service centres
include a new contract at Honda America,
located in Ohio. This multi-year contract is the
first OEM customer and it is worth $1 million
over three years. Toyota awarded FTSS Japan a
calibration contract to service dummies and
instrumentation, which is worth $300,000.
Toyota suppliers are expected to follow Toyota’s
lead. Renault selected FTSS Germany to service
FTSS dummies in a contract also worth
$300,000.
Within our instrumentation company (HITEC)
we have recently secured a large order to supply
instrumentation for a torque sensitive, power-
assisted wheelchair, which will enter the market
this year. This and other medical applications
will provide this business with good growth
opportunities.
COMPONENT DISTRIBUTION (RDI)
Trading throughout the period was exceptionally
difficult. In common with many other European
distribution companies, RDI’s business was
adversely affected by the downturn in the IT,
electronics and telecoms sectors, whilst sales to
automotive customers were affected by pricing
pressures. Last autumn a reorganisation of the
Group’s automotive and distribution activities
took place, which transferred those activities not
related to third party component distribution to
other parts of the Group and focussed RDI on
its core activity. RDI has been slimmed down to
43 staff and is now positioned to benefit from
the upturn in the market whilst minimising its
cash exposure in the interim.
Consumer vehicle ratings and safety awareness 
remain the drivers for our Safety & Analysis business.
The Division had a record year with US Dollar sales 
up 24%.
Chief Executive’s Review 12
Our chosen operating fields of safety and the
environment and our technology base of
sensing are recognised as long term growth
areas. We enjoy market leading positions in
niche areas, with much of our business
underpinned by our presence in regulated
and legislated markets. These factors,
combined with our intellectual property
portfolio, manufacturing process knowledge,
strategic partnerships and a management
philosophy of cost control, ensure we
maintain healthy margins and strong cash
generation. The Group is well placed to take
advantage of acquisition opportunities that
fit with its established strategy, as we continue
to build a world-class sensing business.
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 18 First Technology 2003
IN CONCLUSION
I am pleased to join First Technology at this
stage of the Company’s evolution. Fred Westlake
has led the Company for almost 20 years of
profitable growth and I take this opportunity to
thank him on behalf of the shareholders and
employees for making the Company what it is
today and on behalf of Fred, I thank them for
the support they have given him and their
continued commitment. It is my intention to
continue to build on this legacy through
strategic investment in quality acquisitions and
advanced technologies to create the high quality
products our customers demand. This is still the
key to delivering consistently high returns to our
shareholders and fuelling the future growth of
the Group.
John Shepherd
Chief Executive 
We take pride in our standards of quality
control and product inspection: an employee
at FTSS’ Plymouth, Michigan facility reviews
the checklist on a Hybrid III 5th (percentile)
female dummy prior to final assembly and
shipment to the customer.
13
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:02 AM  Page 19
