 First Technology 2003
My interim statement was made against a
backdrop of global economic and political
uncertainty. However, I did allude to the
comforting facts that a significant proportion 
of our products are sold into legislated markets
and that we enjoy strong international market
positions in the increasingly important sectors of
safety and the environment. I am pleased to say
that such factors, along with strong management
control, have resulted in a robust performance in
a difficult year. It is particularly pleasing to note
that, once again, our operating margin in relation
to on-going items was above 20% and we ended
the year debt free. Profit before tax on the same
basis was £25.5 million (2002: £28.7 million)
and headline earnings per share were 27.2 pence
per share (2002: 30.0 pence). I do not include in
“on-going items” the exceptional reorganisation
and integration costs or goodwill items.
Approximately half of our sales are in the US,
where the sluggishness of that market linked to 
a significant weakening of the US dollar during
the year, had a negative effect on our overall
performance. The effect of adverse currency
movements on the translation of the results of
our overseas operations was to reduce the
turnover figure by £4.1 million and to lower the
operating profit figure by £1.1 million. Added to
which, the lead up to the Iraqi war and the war
itself, coming as they did in our normally strong
last quarter, had a dampening effect on demand. 
Cash Flow
Once again, the business proved to be resilient,
especially in its cash generating abilities. After
capital expenditure and acquisition payments of
£6.8 million and the payment of £6.9 million in
dividends, the Group had net cash of £0.1 million
at the year end compared with a net debt figure
of £12.3 million at the previous year end. 
Dividends
Given the continuing strong cash generation 
of the business, your Board has decided to
recommend an increase in the final dividend to
6.1 pence per share (2002: 5.8 pence), bringing
the total dividend for the year to 9.5 pence per
share (2002: 9.0 pence), an increase of 5.6%,
which is covered 2.8 times by headline earnings
(i.e. profit after tax excluding exceptional
reorganisation and integration costs and
goodwill items).
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on the
7th October 2003 to shareholders on the register
at close of business on 5th September 2003.
Board Changes
On 10th March 2003, John Shepherd joined the
Board as Chief Executive having previously been
with Smiths Group plc, where his last position
was as Managing Director Smith Detection.
John brings considerable experience in the
building and management of profitable
international technology based businesses. I have
no doubt our business will gain considerably
from his leadership. For more information on
John and his appointment and my own position
going forward I would refer you to our company
announcement of 18th February 2003, a copy
of which is posted on our website.
Dr Fred J Westlake
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement 02
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 8 First Technology 2003
Corporate Governance
First Technology has always been committed 
to high ethical standards and takes pride in its
open dialogue with investors, employees and
customers. The Board accepts the principles
embodied in the Combined Code introduced in
June 1998 and makes every effort to apply them,
taking into account the size of the business.
Your Board has discussed the recent draft
recommendations of the Higgs and Smith
reports. Whilst we are committed to proper
corporate governance, we are concerned that
some of the recommendations may be
inappropriate for smaller companies such as
ours, leading to excessive added costs without
providing any substantive improvements in
corporate governance. Modifications have been
mooted and it is to be hoped that the final
document meets the concerns that many
companies have expressed.
We have always linked the remuneration of our
Executives to the profitability of the business.
Consequently no bonuses are being paid to my
Executive Director colleagues or myself in
respect of the year being reported.
Environmental Management
In my last interim statement, I spoke of 
the strong belief of the Board that sound
environmental policy contributes to our
competitive strength and is to the benefit of 
all stakeholders. At that time, five of our eight
major operating sites had achieved certification
of the internationally recognised environmental
management standard, ISO 14001. I am now
pleased to report that the remaining three sites
also achieved certification in the second half of
the year.
Outlook
We remain firmly committed to our strategy of
creating and supporting innovative products and
services in our chosen global markets of safety
and the environment.
Our never-ending effort to reduce costs led 
to increased production in the Dominican
Republic and component sourcing in the Far
East. These are trends which will continue.
All the signs are that the various factors which
are currently having an adverse effect on global
economic activity will be with us for some time
to come. This makes it difficult to forecast
revenue and profitability in the near term.
Compared to our peer group, we continue 
to enjoy healthy profit margins, strong cash
generation and a high return on capital
employed. Our search for suitable acquisitions,
for which we are well placed, continues.
Your Board believes that our clear focus,
established strategy and new product pipeline
mean we are well positioned to benefit when our
markets improve.
Fred Westlake
Chairman
03
Compared to our peer group, we continue to enjoy
healthy profit margins, strong cash generation and a
high return on capital employed.
First Tech r/a 2003 a/w  7/24/03  11:01 AM  Page 9
