 First Technology 2004
Chief Executive’s Review 04
The market for our non-automotive
electromechanical devices was more
buoyant with sales up 14% in US
Dollar terms. Demand for circuit
protection devices for riding toys and
thermostat limit switches used in
electronic heating controls was strong.
The market for communication
ceramics products has revived
somewhat after two very quiet years
with sales up some 65% over prior year.
The automotive Safety and Analysis
market was again strong. With organic
sales growth of 17% overall in US
Dollar terms, the division achieved
new records. Japan was, once again, a
key market with sales up 31% in US
Dollar terms helped by deliveries of
new leading edge products to Toyota.
Sales of our software dummy models
were excellent, being some 42% higher
than last year. The market for these
products will continue to be strong 
as more and more aspects of crash-
worthiness design are simulated in
software prior to physical crash tests.
Prospects for our side impact
dummies (SID II-S & ES-2) received
a signiﬁcant boost in May with the
announcement in the US by the
National Highway Trafﬁc Safety
Administration (NHTSA) of a
proposed new rule which will require
new types of vehicle side impact crash
testing. They have speciﬁed our dummy
design as the de-facto standard. 
The strain gauge application market
served by our HITEC subsidiary was,
again, strong with US Dollar sales up
24%. Efﬁciencies and customer image
will be further enhanced by the recent
move to a new modern facility.
MARKETS
The Gas Sensing market continues to
be driven by safety legislation in both
industrial safety and ﬂue-gas emissions
applications. Overall sales volumes for
these markets increased by 7% and 3%
respectively. China continues to be a
strong area of expansion with a 50%
growth in the number of sensors sold
there compared to the previous year.
This growth rate should be maintained
as a result of the recent opening of
our representative ofﬁce in Shanghai.
The worldwide automotive market
continues to be difﬁcult, though the
North American market fared better
in our second half year than in the
ﬁrst half and ended only 2.2% down
in overall production volumes
compared to the previous year.
European production volumes were
essentially ﬂat compared to last year.
Despite this, we have been able to
create some signiﬁcant gains:
Solar/Twilight (climate control &
headlight) sensor sales are up 32% 
at Ford and shipments of new Dual
Zone (climate control) sensors have
also commenced at Nissan and MG
Rover, beginning to replace lost
business of older products, such as 
the lower margin, build-to-print Fuel
Level Sender and adjustable steering
actuator for Delphi.
Our continuous focus on operational cost improvements
allows us to succeed in maintaining both our overall
operating margins and our levels of R&D investment:
R&D spend is again in excess of 6% of sales.
John Shepherd
Chief Executive
I am pleased to report that we are making signiﬁcant
progress in executing and accelerating our strategy of
building a world-class global sensing business.
We have produced a robust set of results, which,
despite reduced overall sales and further adverse impact
from foreign currency movements, show improved
headline earnings per share and operating margins still
above 20%. We continue to drive efﬁciencies hard and
have reduced other operating costs by a further 4%.
I am conﬁdent that our focused strategy and especially
the recent acquisitions are positioning our business to
exploit new and existing growth markets, thus enabling
a resumption of proﬁt growth.
The Group’s Lean Manufacturing team continues to drive
efﬁciencies hard – contributing to the 4% year on year
reduction in other operating costs. First Technology 2004
05
NEW TECHNOLOGY 
AND PRODUCTS
Our continuous focus on operational
cost improvements allows us to succeed
in the difﬁcult task of maintaining
both our overall operating margins
and our levels of R&D investment. 
As in the ﬁrst half, we have continued
to spend around 6% of sales on new
product development.
In the Gas Sensing business, new
product introduction continues apace
with the launch of two important 
new safety sensors. The IRceL
™
is a
miniature infra-red based device 
for sensing carbon dioxide and
hydrocarbons. With the introduction
of this device, we now supply the
complete range of safety gas sensors
utilising electrochemical, semi-
conductor and infra-red technologies,
thus enabling us to supply the total
sensing needs of our customers - a
capability unmatched by our
competitors. The MICROceL
™
is 
the next in the series of miniature
postage stamp sized sensors, which 
we announced last year with the
introduction of our MICROpeL
™
combustible gas sensor. The
MICROceL
™
range comprises toxic
gas sensors (measuring concentrations
of carbon dioxide and hydrogen
sulphide) and their compact size 
will enable customers to develop
signiﬁcantly smaller and lighter
instruments.
Development of our biosensor, which
will be used to detect and identify the
presence of low concentrations of the
toxic enzyme subtilisin (used in
detergent manufacture), is progressing
to plan with initial product release on
target for early 2005. This technology
can also be extended to detect airborne
particles of other enzymes used in the
brewing and baking industries, as well
as particles produced by moulds
which are becoming an increasing
problem in buildings, especially in
North America.
Our investment in automotive new
product development is continuing 
to yield signiﬁcant results. The joint
development with UK technology
powerhouse, QinetiQ, of a passive
infra-red imaging device to be used 
as a sensor for detecting the size and
position of front seat occupants
continues to plan and is receiving
considerable interest and assistance
from several of our major OEM
customers. This product which we
have called Thermal Imaging
Occupancy Sensor, (TIOS
™
), will
enable car makers to meet the
requirements of existing US
legislation, which mandates that by
the end of 2006 all vehicles must be
capable of detecting and classifying
the size and position of front seat
occupants to enable smart (multi-
stage) airbag deployment in the event
of accidents. The performance of our
prototypes, the signiﬁcant cost
advantage relative to other possible
solutions and the positive assistance
we are receiving from major customers
mean we remain very optimistic about
the potential for this product. By
2007 the US market alone for this
type of product is expected to be 15
million units p.a. 
Another new development is a
patented non-contact Fuel Level
sensor, which can replace the existing
resistance based designs offering lower
cost and enhanced reliability. The
market size is in excess of 20 million
units p.a.
Other new products introduced in
2004 are covered in the operations
section of this report.
The Safety and Analysis business
continues to be the market leader
through continued investment in 
new products with ever increasing
sophistication. Indeed, this business
has transformed from a steel and
plastics company to an electronics,
sensors and software integrator. 
Our fully integrated intelligent crash
dummy (iDummy
™
) system is now
ready to be deployed in the next
generation of front and side impact
dummies. The iDummy
™
system
eliminates a long trailing cable that
records the data from the sensors
located in the dummy. The iDummy
™
,
using a sophisticated in-dummy data
acquisition system developed with our
partner, DTS, allows the data to be
captured inside the dummy and
downloaded after the test.
The Safety and Analysis business continues to be the
market leader in its highly regulated ﬁeld of crash testing
and remains committed to investment in new products
with ever increasing sophistication, such as the iDummy
™
.
Above left: City’s IRceL™
Above right: City’s MICROceL™
range Chief Executive’s Review 06
First Technology 2004
EnviteC’s product portfolio comprises: 
– gas sensors which detect oxygen, carbon
dioxide and nitrogen monoxide; 
– medical devices which monitor the level of
oxygenation of blood (SpO2); 
–breath alcohol analysers, and 
–drug abuse testing kits.
Introducing EnviteC
Newly acquired EnviteC strengthens the Group’s
position in the medical sector and consolidates our
leading position in electrochemical gas sensing.
Founded in 1992, EnviteC designs and manufactures
a range of sensor-based products, primarily for
medical and environmental applications. Its
products are sold internationally, with the largest
markets being in Germany and the US. 
Product range
EnviteC offers the broadest range of reusable and
disposable SpO2 sensors worldwide for use in
monitoring devices for anaesthesia and intensive
care equipment. Its non-invasive SpO2 products
are designed speciﬁcally for adults, pediatrics,
infants and neonates and geared for ease of use
and patient comfort, as well as being compatible
with leading manufacturers’ patient monitoring
systems. The company’s extensive range of oxygen
sensors are applied in anaesthesia and intensive
care equipment as well as life support systems. 
New product opportunities
Key projects in EnviteC’s product pipeline include: 
– fast oxygen sensor technology for a wide number
of medical and industrial applications; 
–a new generation of low cost anaesthesia/
respiratory monitors; 
– development of in-house optoelectronics for
the SpO2 pulse oximetry sensors; 
– improved breath alcohol analysers; 
– wireless “Bluetooth” sensor technology for
remote monitoring of patients. 
Success with innovations such as these, together
with market opportunities, will help sustain
EnviteC’s history of growth: sales in Euro 
terms grew by more than 8% in the year to
December 2003. 
The acquisition of MST and SensoriC in May 2004
expands the Group’s Gas Sensing capabilities further.
These businesses are engaged in the development,
manufacture, sales and services of systems and sensors
that monitor the presence of toxic gases, ﬁre smoke and
other critical gases within a speciﬁed area. 
The combination of City Technology, EnviteC, MST
and SensoriC represents a signiﬁcant strategic step in the
evolution of the Group’s gas sensing capabilities. 07
First Technology 2004
Sensor production at EnviteC’s state-of-the-art facility 
in Wismar, Northern Germany (inset right), where the
company now employs in excess of 100 people. 
Inset left: EnviteC’s latest blood oxygenation monitor.
EnviteC’s new SmartClip (shown left) is the ﬁrst such
product offering an easy-to-use saliva or perspiration 
test for the detection of drugs, such as cocaine,
methamphetamines, amphetamines, morphine and
cannabis. The quick and reliable SmartClip is a more
cost-effective method of drug abuse detection than the
current urine or blood tests. There are some 10 million
urine tests carried out in the US alone (prisons,
workplace, road controls) and the SmartClip presents an
opportunity to become a leading player in a rapidly
growing market. Chief Executive’s Review 08 China continues to be a strong area of expansion for our
gas sensors, with sensor volumes sold there up 50% year 
on year. This growth should be further enhanced with the
opening of our ofﬁce in Shanghai.
The ﬂue-gas emissions market, which
had been ﬂat in recent years, showed
healthy growth in the year, with an
increase in total sales value of 9% as
the market grew and we took market
share from competitors. However, the
weak US Dollar and a slowing of sales
of the IRidium
®
product due to a
period of sluggishness in our customers’
exhaust gas analyser markets in the
US meant that total automotive
tailpipe gas sensor sales were ﬂat. This
is expected to recover this summer.
China continues to be a strong area 
of expansion for industrial safety and
automotive exhaust gas sensors, with a
50% growth in the number of sensors
sold there compared to the previous
year. We expect this growth to be
further enhanced as a result of the
recent opening of our Shanghai-based
China Representative Ofﬁce, which
will house local sales and technical
support staff for the Gas Sensing and
Safety and Analysis divisions. This local
support will enable our customers to
design-in our sensors into their
instruments more quickly.
OPERATIONS
GAS SENSING
The Gas Sensing division has
continued to perform well, despite
difﬁcult and unusual trading
conditions in the ﬁrst half year and
the severe erosion of the US Dollar
throughout the year. The Dollar
erosion has a signiﬁcant transaction
effect on this division because of the
largely Sterling cost base and the fact
that more than half the sales are in 
US Dollars. At comparable exchange
rates, sales (excluding the acquired
EnviteC business) were the same as
the previous year at £25.5m.
As well as the negative impact of
currency movements, there was a
slight increase in competition in the
industrial safety markets. Despite these
adverse factors, our sales of sensors for
industrial safety applications increased
in volume terms by 7% over the year
with strong growth coming from
securing oxygen sensor and pellistor
business from our competitors.
Product-mix changes also contributed
to slightly weaker gross margins. 
First Technology 2004
Gas Sensors 22% (20%)
Safety & Analysis 19% (17%)
Circuit Breakers 16% (16%)
Optical Sensors 13% (14%)
Fuel Cut Off 10% (13%)
Other Auto 11% (12%)
Component Distribution 7% (6%)
Ceramics 2% (2%)
Sales Analysis - by product
2004 (2003) 09 The worldwide automotive market is a difﬁcult environment that we
have many years’ experience navigating. Our goal is to maintain our
focus on those products with the ability and potential to achieve
consistently above average margins and return on investment.
The determination of the Chinese
Government to reduce city pollution
by 2008 when they host the Olympic
Games seems undiminished. Much of
the enforcement of vehicle emissions
regulations is carried out by local
police forces equipped with portable
exhaust analysers, which incorporate
IRidium
®
-type infra-red sensor
modules. In addition, industrial safety
legislation is beginning to emerge,
particularly for workers in coal mines
in north-eastern China which will
help drive sales of our industrial safety
sensors.
Investment in R&D continued with
8% of turnover in this division,
consistent with prior year, directed 
at product enhancements and new
product development. 
Although the exchange rate issues
reduced gross margins slightly, we
were able to offset this partially by
continuous improvement of operating
efﬁciencies, materials cost reductions
and supply-chain enhancements. An
example of the latter included the
introduction of a new bar-code driven
e-supply system to enable electronic
“demand-pull” of parts from our
suppliers into our Lean Manufacturing
system. In addition, we have
commenced manufacture of some of
the more labour intensive products at
our Dominican Republic facility.
OTHER MANUFACTURING
Although the automotive markets 
in which we operate remained (and
continue to be) extremely competitive,
our intensiﬁed Lean Manufacturing
initiatives, together with favourable
exchange rates for our Dollar-based
businesses, have enabled us to
improve operating margins for this
segment from 19.2% to 19.7% - an
outstanding achievement in this very
competitive market, especially as there
has been no reduction in the pace of
our new product R&D investment.
Automotive and Special Products
Sales for this division fell by some
14%. This was primarily due to the
effects of currency translation (which
accounted for about half of the
decline) and a fall in the sales of our
more mature products, such as the
Fuel Cut Off device.
We will continue to make efﬁciency
improvements a priority over the next
ﬁnancial year. As part of this process
we made the difﬁcult decision of
announcing the closure of our
Caribou Maine facility in March.
Production in Caribou will be phased
out by the end of 2004. 
The new First Technology presence in
Shanghai, China allows us to evaluate
further efﬁciency improvement
opportunities in that part of the world.
In response to the continuous pressure
from the OEM’s to cut the cost of their
products, we focus our development
effort on products that bring new cost
effective technologies to the market.
Overall this division invests 6% of
revenue in new product development
and evolution. The erosion of the
value of the Dollar against Sterling has
helped reduce the Sterling cost of our
North American R&D activities.
Examples of the types of products
which were introduced in the year or
will be introduced in the near future are:
•“Flat T op” T wilight (headlight
control) sensors for a US-produced
Japanese Transplant Vehicle - an
important win considering how
much market share they are taking
from the indigenous OEM’s.
•Absolute Position sensor chosen by a
major Tier 1 systems supplier for its
stability control system.
• Anti-tampering device for the Volvo
environmental radiator system. 
•New generation Solar/Twilight
sensors for Ford.
The worldwide automotive market is
a difﬁcult environment that we have
many years of experience navigating.
Our goal is to continue to focus on
those products which have the ability
and/or potential to achieve consistently
above average margins and return on
investment.
North American Automotive Market
Big 3 Production FT Fiscal YoY 
%
Fiscal 1st Fiscal 1st
Year Half Year Half
2004 Year 2003 Year
General Motors -5.8 -7.4 4.6 8.0
Ford -8.7 -13.8 1.2 9.4
Daimler - Chrysler -1.2 -6.8 -1.3 5.1
Total NA Car & Truck -2.2 -5.4 2.1 7.8
European Production -0.3 -0.7 -0.3 0.4
Sales gains were made in the Auto market with the
Solar/Twilight sensor for Ford and Dual Zone sensor 
for Nissan and MG Rover.
First Technology 2004
NA Source: Global Insights (DRI) North American Light Vehicle Industry
Forecast Reports
European Source: Global Insights (DRI) World Car Industry Forecast Reports Chief Executive’s Review 10
TSM’s modular force sensing crash wall load cell,
originally developed for the UK’s Transport 
Research Laboratory (TRL), has now become the 
de facto industry standard, and TSM today is a major
supplier of vehicle testing crash walls and sensors used 
in NCAP (National Car Assessment Programme) and
EuroNCAP testing.
The WorldSID, a side impact dummy, was the ﬁrst
dummy to include our iDummy
™
capabilities. It was
ofﬁcially released for production in March 2004. The
WorldSID Committee hosted an ofﬁcial production
launch event in June. The dummy was rated 7.6 on a ten
scale, representing good to excellent bioﬁdelity – best
among all side impact dummies.
A BMW Mini frontal impact test into one
of TSM’s force sensing crash walls
Thames Side-Maywood (TSM)
TSM, acquired by the Group in March 2004, is a
leading UK player in the market for load cell design
and manufacture, providing total solutions for
industrial weighing and OEM force measurement
markets. The company occupies a strong position 
in a number of specialist niche areas, enjoying
international market leadership as a designer and
manufacturer of load cells for force sensing
automotive crash test walls. TSM provides a logical
strategic complement to the crash test dummies and
crash simulation software of the Group’s Safety &
Analysis division.
Competitive edge
TSM’s capability to design and manufacture all 
its products in-house gives it a competitive edge. 
Its engineering strengths derive from extensive
experience of OEM material testing applications
across all facets of industry, and projects undertaken
range from real-time measurements for Formula 1
racing cars to bond testing for the semiconductor
industry. 
The Group’s existing OEM transducer capability 
at HITEC, together with HITEC’s established
routes to market, will allow further opportunities 
for combined development initiatives and future
growth. TSM’s range of load cell products
complements HITEC’s growing “engineered to ﬁt”
strain gauge transducer business, allowing customer
base expansion for both companies in North
America and Europe. HITEC has enjoyed signiﬁcant
growth in this area, relying on its engineering
expertise and response in designing custom
transducer solutions for various global industries,
from the tooling industry to, most recently, the
medical market.
First Technology 2004 11
The development of the Safety and Analysis division’s 
Q series of child dummies continues apace. The arm of
a 1.5 Year Old Q Dummy is adjusted during durability
testing on a crash sled.
New side impact standards continue the expansion of 
the crash dummy market. Our Safety & Analysis division
has developed two mid-size side impact dummies for 
regulation and the division continues to invest in a family
of dummies for future regulations.
The Group’s customers are demanding virtual crash
dummies as soon as physical prototype dummies are
available. In response, First Technology is accelerating the
pace of development of its virtual dummies to offer physical
and virtual prototypes at the same time. 
First Technology 2004 ACQUISITIONS
We have enjoyed considerable success
in the past few months in ﬁnding and
completing the acquisition of four
companies which add signiﬁcant
growth opportunities to the Group.
Two acquisitions were completed
within the last ﬁnancial year and two
shortly afterwards.
In March 2004, we acquired Thames
Side-Maywood (TSM) from Halma
plc. TSM designs and manufactures
custom load cells for the automotive
crash testing and industrial weighing
markets. In combination with our
crash dummy and analysis business 
we will be able to offer TSM’s smart
crash wall technology (used in vehicle
safety crash testing) to our existing
customer base.
In April 2004, we acquired 90% of
the share capital of EnviteC-Wismar
GmbH (EnviteC), which designs and
manufactures sensor-based products
which are primarily used in medical
and environmental applications. This
is an innovative and fast growing
company which will extend our reach
into the medical device market and
improve our geographic positioning 
in Germany. EnviteC’s products
include gas sensors which detect
oxygen, carbon dioxide and nitrogen
monoxide; medical devices which
monitor the level of oxygenation in
the blood; breath alcohol analysers
and drug abuse testing kits.
During the year, development of 
FT-Thor, the new Frontal Impact
Dummy and the Q series of child
dummies continued apace. More
importantly two new dummies were
introduced for the proposed new side
impact crash test standard in the US,
announced in May 2004.
Even in this relatively “bespoke”
manufacturing division we have made
signiﬁcant efﬁciency gains using Lean
Manufacturing and organisational
techniques. Working capital has been
substantially improved.
COMPONENT 
DISTRIBUTION (RDI)
The market for distributors of
electronic components in France
remains challenging. This is primarily
due to the increasing trend of
customers to relocate their production
facilities outside France to lower
labour cost environments. However,
there remains room in the market
place for niche suppliers, such as RDI,
to operate proﬁtably. In the second
half of the year, the situation stabilised
and sales levels showed an increase in
local currency against the prior year.
Having signiﬁcantly reduced the cost
base in 2003, RDI was able to
improve its operating performance
and the business was cash positive at
the operating level for the year.
OTHER MANUFACTURING
Safety and Analysis
In order to maintain our strong
market share we continue to invest 
in leading edge product development
in the area of sensors, new dummy
products and the corresponding
software Finite Element Models. The
iDummy
™
system is near the end of
the development cycle. Custom
iDummy
™
solutions were delivered to
Toyota and Honda during the year.
Toyota requested a high sensor count
dummy that allowed us to develop
and implement a new type of sensor
for dummy use which utilises a laser
to measure movement in four axes.
We shipped to Honda a newly
conﬁgured iDummy
™
for pedestrian
impact testing. The sophisticated
iDummy
™
system allows a Pedestrian
dummy to be struck without any
externally attached cable bundles
which would otherwise interfere with
the dummy’s dynamics in an accident.
Toyota also purchased the ﬁrst 
on-vehicle data acquisition system
(DAS) during the past year. The
lightweight DAS will allow more
sensors on the vehicle and replaces
heavy older systems and further
established us as a market leader in
the supply of complete crash testing
system instrumentation.
First Technology 2004
Chief Executive’s Review 12
BW Technologies Limited (BWT) joined
the First Technology Group on 15th June
2004. BWT designs, manufactures and
markets portable, stand-alone and ﬁxed-
location detection equipment for
hazardous gases, for both industrial and
commercial purposes and is the global
market leader in portable gas detection
instruments.
Innovative, portable, multi-gas detectors, such as the
GasAlertMicro (above), helped drive BWT’s impressive
sales growth of 47.5% in the year to 30th April 2004. In May 2004, we made a further
acquisition in Germany and the US 
of the businesses and assets of the Life
Safety Systems division of ATMI Inc.
These businesses are engaged in the
development, manufacturing, sales
and servicing of systems and sensors
that monitor the presence of toxic
gases, ﬁre, smoke and other critical
safety failures within a speciﬁc area.
Their principal market is in the semi-
conductor fabrication ﬁeld and they
are also successful in the industrial
safety market. The systems business,
based in Munich, will trade under the
name of MST Technology and the
sensors business, based in Bonn, will
trade under the name of SensoriC.
In May 2004, we launched a
recommended cash offer for the fast
growing Canadian gas detection
instrument manufacturer, BW
Technologies Limited (BWT), which
valued the corporation at C$260
million. A public company, which 
was traded on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, BWT is the global market
leader in the portable gas detection
instrument sector. The acquisition was
successfully completed on 15th June.
BWT’s highly regarded senior
management team will continue to
lead the business and the acquisition
is expected to be earnings enhancing 
in the ﬁrst full year of ownership.
BWT designs and manufactures
portable, stand-alone and ﬁxed
location instruments which are used
for the detection and quantiﬁcation 
of hazardous gases for industrial and
commercial applications.
These three highly complementary
acquisitions represent a signiﬁcant
strategic step in the evolution of our
Gas Sensing division. The enlarged
division will:
- be well positioned to exploit the
global sourcing trends which are
emerging in their markets;
- have the skills, products and process
knowledge to exploit integrated
system opportunities;
- be able to rapidly exploit the
complementary geographic reach of
the businesses;
- be able to create unique products
with a high degree of market
differentiation.
SUMMARY
We have made signiﬁcant progress in
the execution of our overall strategy.
Through the dedicated commitment
of our global workforce, efﬁciencies
continue to improve and we continue
to manage carefully and prudently the
tax efﬁciency of the group to the
beneﬁt of shareholders. Future growth
from existing businesses continues to
be underpinned by strong investment
in R&D ensuring a healthy pipeline
in proprietary products which meet
and anticipate our customer’s needs.
In the year ahead, we will focus on
integrating and consolidating the
recent acquisitions to ensure that we
capitalise on the growth opportunities
they bring. 
Recent acquisitions mean we now
have the capability to build the Gas
Sensing division into one which has
the scale and breadth to supply our
customers’ complete needs from
“science to systems”. The market,
customer, technology and process
synergies will all enable signiﬁcant
new growth opportunities.
John Shepherd
Chief Executive 
First Technology 2004
13 In the year ahead we will focus on integrating and consolidating 
the recent acquisitions to ensure that we capitalise on the growth
opportunities they bring.
