 04 FIRST
Chief Executive’s review
Moir Lockhead
Chief Executive
Overview
Safety
The safety of our staff and passengers is of fundamental
importance to us all and underpins everything that we do.
During the year we have continued to work with DuPont Safety
Resources with the aim of developing our total safety culture.
We are making good progress but continually strive to improve
safety awareness at all levels within our organisation. 
Results
I am pleased to report another encouraging set of results for
the Group with good progress in all areas of our operations.
Operating profit rose to £216.1m (2002: £215.0m). We have
seen continued growth in EBITDA (operating profit plus
depreciation) to £315.3m (2002: £310.1m), which has enabled
us to invest in the business with capital expenditure and
business acquisitions totalling £134.5m, together with a 7%
increase in dividend and the return of £17.1m to shareholders
through the continued repurchase of equity during the year.
North America
Results
Turnover from our three North American operations was
£582.4m (2002: £542.9m). The underlying increase at constant
exchange rates was 16%. Operating profit was £61.3m 
(2002: £60.8m). At constant exchange rates the increase 
was 8%. 
First Student
During the year growth continued at First Student with US
Dollar turnover increasing by 15%. The bidding market for
school bus contracts was more competitive in 2002, however
we retained approximately 90% of our existing school bus
contracts that came up for renewal during the period. Our
policy remains that we will not bid for new business at
unattractive margins. The division gained net new contracts 
for approximately 100 buses. We were delighted to make 
our first entry into the state of Tennessee with a contract win 
in Chattanooga.  FIRST 05
The majority of our expansion came from the purchase of
smaller operators which we were able to acquire on attractive
terms. Through this programme of strategic infill acquisitions
we purchased six small businesses adding 725 buses to 
our fleet. We strengthened our position in Florida with the
acquisition of a further school bus operator in Jacksonville
bringing our total fleet in the city to 740 buses. New school
bus businesses were also acquired in Massachusetts, 
New Jersey, Wisconsin and California. We now operate 
some 15,500 school buses across the US and Canada,
approximately 50% more than at the time of acquisition in
1999, and this growth trend is continuing.
We are encouraged by our progress in the current bidding
round for contracts to start in Autumn 2003. We have been
awarded a five-year management contract, requiring no vehicle
capital expenditure, to operate 683 school buses in Boston.
This will be our first management contract in the city and 
builds on our successful relationships with school boards in
New England. In addition we were awarded a contract in
Louisiana, our first entry into this state. Looking forward, we
have an encouraging pipeline of new contracts and business
acquisitions and we are confident that we will deliver another
year of continued growth in First Student. 
First Transit
In First Transit US Dollar turnover increased by 17%. We 
have won net new business with an annualised turnover of
approximately US$5m. Important new contracts were gained in
Maryland and California, and service expansions were added in
Alabama and Virginia. In March, First Transit completed the
acquisition of the transportation management division of
Dyntek Inc. Through this acquisition First Transit will assume
responsibility for non-emergency medical transport call centre
contracts in Connecticut, Illinois and Arlington County, Virginia.
This acquisition will strengthen First Transit’s expertise in this
growing market. 
The new business market has continued to be competitive. In
response, the division has reduced its cost base by improving
internal efficiencies to position itself as the lowest cost, best
value provider in the market, consistent with maintaining our
quality and customer service. We are focusing on bidding for
new business where our specific expertise, in areas such as
call centre management and paratransit services, will bring
additional value to customers.
First Services
First Services has also continued to expand with US Dollar
turnover increasing by 13%. We have completed a detailed
review of opportunities within the servicing and vehicle
management market. As a result First Services aims to
broaden its spread of business in both the public and 
private sector. During the year we won new business in
Washington DC, Puerto Rico and Georgia. Additionally, in
February 2003, we acquired a small specialist business that 
fits communications equipment into vehicles such as police
cars and emergency vehicles. This business complements 
and extends our existing operations. 
Margins
Margins across the division were adversely impacted by
increased fuel and insurance costs. In First Student the
incidence of a higher than average number of school days 
lost through very heavy snowfall during the winter also
impacted revenues and margins. Since the year end we have
put in place fuel hedging arrangements which will give us 
cover for 50% of our purchase requirements for up to four
years at competitive rates. Growth in insurance costs has 
also moderated and we are focusing on controlling claims
more effectively.
Outlook – North America
Our North American division is now self-funding for
maintenance and growth capital expenditure. The prospects
for our operations remain excellent in highly fragmented
markets, which also offer the prospect of further growth from
outsourcing. We are confident that this division will form a
growing proportion of the Group’s profits in the future.
Safety
Safety is paramount in our business. We are never
complacent about our obligations to staff and
passengers and are always seeking to improve the way
we operate. That’s why safety is at the top of every
agenda and we have appointed safety officers in all 
our divisions. Our aim is to imbed a total safety culture
across all our operations and for passengers to know
that when they travel with us they can have absolute
confidence in our services. 06 FIRST
UK Bus
Results
This was a year of considerable achievement in UK Bus.
Turnover increased by 6% to £859.4m (2002: £811.5m) and
operating profit before financing costs increased by 6% to
£111.7m (2002: £105.7m). The division generated over 
£150m of cash, of which a substantial amount was reinvested 
in the division.
London
In London, where we operate bus services on behalf of
Transport for London (TfL), we added 130 new vehicles in
support of TfL’s strategy to increase the number of buses and
services in preparation for the start of congestion charging. 
The scheme was successfully introduced in February 2003 and
the initial results show that car volumes within the charging zone
have been reduced by approximately 15% with consequent
improved journey times for buses. Our new and extended
contracts generated £25m of additional turnover in the year. 
We now operate 1,235 buses in London giving us a 16% market
share in the capital. Some 50% of our London business now
operates under quality-incentivised contracts and we are
performing well against these targets. For 2003/04 we have
already secured all major contract changes and in addition 
we are targeting a further increase in the number of buses 
we operate. 
Outside London
Outside London passenger volumes increased by 1.5%, 
with areas of particularly good growth where we continue 
to develop Quality Partnership programmes with Local
Authorities. We have continued to strengthen our partnerships
with transport authorities and other stakeholders to integrate
bus service improvements within wider transport policies 
which include parking and development strategies. This has
led to some important initiatives that have delivered improved
services for passengers and new alternatives to the private 
car. Growth was very encouraging in cities such as Aberdeen,
Glasgow, Manchester and York where we have introduced 
Chief Executive’s review
Kids to school
At First we know a thing or two about going to
school. With our 15,500 yellow school buses
operating every day across the US and Canada
almost a million parents can’t be wrong about
the safety and convenience of the school bus.
That’s why we’ve started to introduce them to
the UK. So far six schemes are up and running
and they have been hugely successful with 
the support of parents, teachers and Local
Authorities. So now our aim is to persuade
Government that these schemes can help to
reduce traffic congestion, road accidents and air
pollution and are by far the safest way of getting
our kids to school. FIRST 07
a range of benefits such as modernised route structures,
newer buses, simplified ticketing, park and ride schemes and
zonal fares. 
Partnerships
We are working closely with local authority partners to
accelerate the implementation of bus infrastructure
improvements at the conurbation level. In Sheffield we have
developed a pilot demographic mapping system that enables
us to measure customer response to service initiatives and to
better target changes to those areas of highest potential bus
usage, as well as helping us to address the Government’s
social inclusion agenda. This initiative is now being introduced
across other urban areas where we operate.
In the major cities where our operations are centred, we have
seen encouraging growth over the past two years. In Glasgow
we now carry 15.1m more passengers (12.7% growth), 
while in Manchester we carry 10.4m more passengers 
(13.1% growth).
In Yorkshire, in conjunction with South and West Yorkshire
Passenger Transport Executives we are developing the
‘Yorkshire Showcase’ which has a target to increase bus travel
in the region by 30% over the next five years.
In York we have worked closely with the City Council which
has introduced traffic restraint measures in the historic city
centre in conjunction with a growing park and ride network on
the periphery. In return we have introduced a brand new fleet
of 90 buses together with an Overground network, marketing
activities and investment in the Park and Ride. This has
resulted in a 12% turnaround in passenger numbers since the
start of the scheme and a reduction of road traffic in the city.
In the North West we have entered into an agreement with the
Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Authority, Bolton
Metro and Wigan Borough Councils to help fund a quality bus
corridor which will significantly improve the reliability of services
on an important arterial route in Greater Manchester.
In Glasgow, as part of a £1.5m investment package to improve
the quality of bus services, we introduced the UK’s first air-
conditioned double decker tri-axle buses capable of carrying
115 passengers, which has helped to deliver the continued
passenger volume growth in the city. 
Rural operations
We are also improving our bus services in rural areas. 
For example, in Devon and Cornwall we have carried out 
a comprehensive market research and passenger and
stakeholder consultation exercise, which has allowed us to
introduce more direct routes between main towns, providing
quicker journey times and enhanced services to over 40 towns
and villages. We have also reorganised our operating divisions
in the South West to deliver better customer service and
reduce overheads.
Marketing
Investment in marketing and customer service has been a
major priority throughout the year with the emphasis on
improving the precision of our bus marketing programme.
We continued to roll out the Overground, our successful
simplified route and fares structure, to new areas such as
Chelmsford, Halifax, Huddersfield, Wirral, North Staffordshire,
Northampton, Norwich and Redditch. We now operate 20
Overground networks throughout the UK. 
Technology
Across the division we have continued to implement
technology-based initiatives to improve customer service. 
In Leicester we introduced ‘StarText’ a new system that
enables passengers to check the arrival times of local bus
services, at given bus stops across the network, using text
messaging on their mobile phones. In addition, we have been
developing the use of our ‘Tracker’ system which uses satellite
technology to track our buses through traffic and identify
congestion hotspots. This enables us to refine timetables and
work efficiently with Local Authorities to minimise disruption to
services as a result of traffic congestion.
Home to work
Commuting may not be fun, but at least we can make 
it more bearable. In many towns and cities where we
operate, an increasing number of people are finding that
it is much easier to let someone else do the driving
instead of sitting in a car in traffic. Our buses are bright
and comfortable, and with the new Overground colour
coded networks it’s simple to find your route. Guided
busways and bus lanes make our buses faster and more
reliable, so it’s quicker too. And many companies are
working with us to establish travel to work schemes
which give discounts for staff who transfer to the bus. 08 FIRST
Investment
We are committed to improving the performance and reliability
of our rail services. We have continued our programme of
introducing new rolling stock and investing in passenger
facilities. The full fleet of new Adelante class 180 high-speed
trains are scheduled to be in service at First Great Western
from the start of the summer timetable in May providing
additional capacity and passenger comfort on services to
Bristol and South Wales. The new fleet of class 175s, which
are now fully operational at First North Western are contributing
to a better travel experience for passengers. In addition, this
summer First Great Eastern will be phasing in its new fleet of
Desiro class 360 trains to replace old slam door rolling stock.
These trains are fully accessible for people with disabilities,
include on-board CCTV and will provide a quieter, smoother
ride for commuters at London’s Liverpool Street station. 
Looking further ahead we have an agreement with Siemens 
to develop a new generation of high-speed trains (HST) that
could enter passenger service within five years. The aim is to
develop a train that could replace the Intercity 125 HSTs on the
Great Western mainline from London Paddington. This next
generation of HSTs will set an even higher standard for intercity
rail travel in the UK.
We have made further investment to improve passenger
facilities and increase security at railway stations. At Swindon
we have contributed to the cost of building an additional
platform to ease the ‘bottleneck’ which causes frequent 
delays to train services through the station. At First Great
Eastern we have recently improved station security at
Chelmsford, Romford and Ilford which has been well received
by passengers and accredited under the British Transport
Police Secure Station Scheme.
Franchises
We continue to develop our proposals for new and renewed
passenger rail franchises. We currently have a balanced
portfolio of intercity, London commuter and regional railways
and are seeking to develop a similarly balanced portfolio of
operations under the SRA’s revised franchise plan. 
Chief Executive’s review
Yellow school bus in the UK
Our US style yellow school bus pilot programme in the UK has
been further expanded during the year to Aberdeen, Windsor,
Wokingham and Wrexham. We now operate a total of six
schemes and are actively pursuing opportunities to develop
this successful pilot further.
Outlook – UK Bus
We remain optimistic about the opportunities for further 
growth in our bus operations as traffic congestion continues 
to increase in major towns and cities throughout the UK. We
are very encouraged by the positive impact that congestion
charging has had on traffic in London and the success of bus
priority schemes across the country. The experience in London
could provide the impetus to introduce similar measures to
combat traffic congestion in other urban areas in the UK. 
UK Rail
Results
Turnover in the Group's three train operating companies was
£842.3m (2002: £802.9m), an increase of 5%. Operating profit
was £61.3m (2002: £66.8m) which is a creditable result given the
reduction in rail support grant for First Great Western and
increase in franchise payments for First Great Eastern totalling
£13.5m. All of our train franchises remain profitable and are
benefiting from substantial investment in new rolling stock and
passenger improvements. This is reflected in continuing high
levels of performance as shown in the Strategic Rail Authority’s
(SRA) public performance measures. In particular First Great
Eastern continues to be the best performing train operating
company in London and the South East. First Great Western
has also shown further improvements in punctuality and
reliability, particularly during the last six months, as a result of
improved infrastructure reliability and enhanced front-line
staffing levels at stations.
Passenger volumes have increased during the period by 5%
on First Great Western and 4% on First Great Eastern. At First
North Western, which we operate on behalf of the SRA, the
impact of industrial action last year resulted in passenger
volumes falling by 5%. 
Business to business
The train is the ideal way to get to a business
meeting on time and feeling refreshed. On First
Great Western we have upgraded our on-board
service and each train now carries a dedicated
train manager to look after passengers’ needs.
First Great Eastern, our London commuter
railway, has the best operating performance 
of any London passenger rail operator. We are
running 26% more metro high-frequency
services and have increased seating capacity 
on peak trains since we took over the franchise.
So we really are doing our best to make the 
train a great place to do business and a great
way to travel. FIRST 09
We are one of the final two bidders, with our partner Keolis, for
the TransPennine Express franchise which is due to commence
operation in early 2004. If selected for the franchise, we will be
able to offer significantly improved services between the major
centres in the North of England. We are currently working with
train manufacturers to develop rolling stock which will bring
new levels of passenger comfort to these services. In addition
we have pre-qualified for the Northern and Scotrail franchises
and we are now working on our detailed proposals to be
submitted to the SRA later in the year. 
In April this year we were invited by the SRA to put forward
proposals for the interim consolidation of the Thames Trains
franchise, which expires in 2004, with First Great Western
which does not expire until 2006. We will be able to offer
passengers a significantly enhanced level of service from
London Paddington on the suburban lines to Reading and to
the Cotswolds from 2004, through more efficient rolling stock
scheduling and timetabling of services. We expect to hear
whether our proposals have been successful later this year. 
We were extremely disappointed, as were a large number of
our customers and stakeholders, at the SRA’s decision not to
allow us to bid for the new Greater Anglia franchise. We are
working with the SRA to understand how they reached this
decision.
Network Rail
After an extremely difficult period in the autumn, we are now
encouraged by the progress that Network Rail is making to
address the backlog of infrastructure maintenance particularly
on the Great Western mainline between London Paddington
and Bristol. Significant works are scheduled to take place this
year and we are working closely with Network Rail to minimise
short-term disruption. These works will further improve the
infrastructure and have a positive impact on reliability.
Bus/Rail Integration
The Group’s scale of operations enables us to provide
unrivalled bus/rail integration opportunities. We now offer joint
bus/rail tickets for major parts of the South West, North West
Integrated transport
In Bristol the bus meets the train and whisks you
into the city; in York you can leave your car at
the park and ride and travel in comfort into the
historic centre; and in Truro you can jump off the
train and into our dedicated ‘+Bus’ chauffeur
service which will drop you at your door. You can
buy your train ticket on the bus or your bus
ticket on the train; or both over the phone or on
the internet. These are all examples of how we
are joining up the links to create integrated
journey opportunities making it more attractive
for people to leave their cars at home and 
travel with us. 10 FIRST
In the bus division we extended the successful pilot workplace
learning scheme started in Essex to locations in Yorkshire and
Scotland. We have also developed National Vocational
Qualifications (NVQ) and Business & Technology Education
Council (BTEC) qualifications for our drivers and introduced
new training programmes for managers. 
In our rail division we established a staff training academy in
Bristol which includes driver simulators. This will ensure that
our staff receive up-to-the-minute training and that key skills
are developed and practised. First Great Western has already
offered 900 staff the opportunity to achieve NVQ level
qualifications in job-related subjects. First Great Eastern has
developed and introduced a comprehensive series of training
programmes for both frontline staff and managers covering,
amongst other things, safety, customer service and conflict
management. In addition First Great Eastern has received
partial Investors in People (IIP) accreditation with special
commendation for its training and appraisal process and aims
to receive full accreditation by the end of 2003. First North
Western has launched a series of comprehensive customer
service training programmes for all frontline staff and managers
with the aim of improving the travel experience for customers.
Environment and Community
As the UK’s largest surface transport operator we can make a
major contribution to improving the environment by encouraging
the development of public transport and thereby reducing road
congestion, vehicle emissions and improving safety. We are
pleased to be taking part in the European Union’s Clean Urban
Transport Trial. We will be operating three fuel cell powered
buses in our East London operation, the only such trial in the
UK. These emission-free buses are virtually silent and have the
potential to make a significant difference to overall air quality.
We have improved environmental awareness and training
throughout the Group which has resulted in some encouraging
trends. For example in the bus division we have achieved an 8%
reduction in energy usage as a result of local depot initiatives. 
In addition we have invested £2m in partial water recycling bus
washes bringing our water consumption down by 14%. We
and East Anglia regions. We are also examining ways to
improve links between railway stations and bus networks.
Dedicated bus/rail links are in operation in Bristol and Taunton
and in Truro we operate a train taxi service. In East Anglia
innovative plans are being developed to create a network 
of buses to feed into train services at railheads throughout 
the region.
FirstInfo
Our call centre operation based in Plymouth now employs
some 500 staff who handle around 11m inbound calls per year.
They provide travel information, customer care and ticket sales
on behalf of our bus and rail operations and are one of the
national contractors to the National Rail Enquiry Service. 
In addition, FirstInfo now operates several Traveline national 
bus enquiry contracts.
Trams
Passenger volumes continue to show encouraging growth 
on Croydon Tramlink which is now carrying over 20m
passengers per annum. We are currently one of two finalists 
for the new Leeds Tram System. We expect to submit our
proposals with our partners Bombardier, Bouygues and Jarvis
later in 2003. 
Staff 
Once again I have been impressed by the commitment and
enthusiasm of our staff. Their continued dedication has
delivered another year of growth. Although the current rate of
bus driver turnover remains too high, we continue to target
further improvements. Our aim is to make First the employer of
choice and we are working hard to improve our understanding
of the needs and aspirations of our people so that they can
continue to develop and achieve their full potential. We
continue to target improved recruitment, training and retention
of staff. Our overall objective is to develop a workforce that is
highly motivated and customer focused. To achieve this we
believe we have to offer employees opportunities to develop
through training, on-the-job appraisal and the provision of
programmes such as lifelong learning. 
Staff and customers
Our staff are First to our passengers. We want
our employees to enjoy working for First and to
take pride in providing the best possible service
to customers. We are working hard to improve
the training we offer our staff. Workplace
learning schemes have been introduced and
many of our staff are taking NVQs through our
sponsored programmes. Regular contact with
our customers – through surveys on our buses
and trains – helps us to improve and deliver
even higher standards of service.
Chief Executive’s review FIRST 11
Community and partnerships
With more and more traffic on our roads it’s not getting 
any easier to protect the environment. As a public 
transport company we can play an active role in reducing
congestion, pollution and accidents. For example, a full 
bus can take up to 50 cars off the road. The use of modern
fuels and cleaner, more efficient engines helps to minimise
the environmental impact of our vehicles. In addition, our
partnerships with Local Authorities, transport organisations
and passenger groups ensure that we provide the best
possible service to the whole community helping to
address the Government’s social inclusion agenda.
were delighted to receive a Green Apple Award, one of the UK’s
leading environmental awards, for our work in reducing the
environmental impact of transport. Additionally, we received 
a Scotland plc Corporate Social Responsibility Award in
recognition of our successes in environmental and safety
improvements, community involvement and charitable projects.
During the year the Group and its staff in the UK and North
America have continued to support a number of local and
national charities. Further details of all these activities can be
found in our Corporate Responsibility Report which is 
published separately. 
Group Outlook 
The Group is well positioned in markets which are resilient 
and offer long-term growth prospects. We generate over 
£300m of EBITDA each year and our focus is to deliver
increased shareholder value through investment in the
business, continued dividend growth, debt reduction and
further repurchases of equity as appropriate. Trading in the
new financial year has started well and is in line with our
expectations.
Moir Lockhead
Chief Executive
