 FIRST 03
Chairman’s statement
Martin Gilbert
Chairman
Across all our divisions safety is our highest priority. We
continue to reinforce a culture of safety throughout our
Company, changing attitudes through education and training
backed up by an ongoing programme of safety audits. During
the year we have made real progress in further strengthening
the business with successful initiatives in safety, staff training
and environmental management.
I am very pleased to report further increases in Group 
turnover and operating profit* that once again demonstrate 
the quality and cash generative nature of our business. With
over £300m of EBITDA (operating profit plus depreciation) 
we have continued to invest in our operations to deliver value
to shareholders through growth in the business, increased
dividends and the repurchase of shares. 
Turnover has increased by 6% to £2,291m (2002: £2,164m)
and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items increased by 2% to £159.8m (2002: £156.7m). Adjusted
basic earnings per share has increased by 4% to 26.8p (2002:
25.8p) and the Board has proposed a final dividend, subject to
approval by shareholders, of 7.45p making a full-year payment
of 11p, an increase of 7%. The dividend is covered 2.1 times
and will be paid on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the
register on 25 July 2003. The Group’s strong and sustainable
cash flows and profits give the Board confidence that they will
be able to continue to increase dividends at above the rate of
inflation going forward.
Since the Group’s formation eight years ago dividends have
increased each year giving a Compound Annual Growth Rate
(CAGR) of 13%. Over the same period, operating profit has
grown from £42m to £216m (CAGR 26%) and EBITDA has
grown from £62m to £315m (CAGR 26%). 
We continue to build on our successful strategy of focusing on
three business segments; North America, UK Bus and UK Rail. 
We are very pleased with the progress we have made in North
America. In US Dollar terms turnover has increased 16% and
profits have increased by 8%. Our student bus business has
continued to grow, with contracts in a number of new regions.
We have also seen growth in our transit and services divisions
and we are confident that there are further opportunities for
expansion in these businesses. Since acquisition in 1999,
operating profits from our North American operations have
grown by 50%. 
We are encouraged by the opportunities UK Bus offers for
further organic growth. Turnover in our business in London has
grown by £25m and we have seen passenger volume growth
of 1.5% in the rest of the country. Traffic congestion continues
to increase in towns and cities throughout the UK and we
believe that the bus provides the most cost-effective and
immediate solution. The early success of congestion charging
in London may offer further encouragement for other cities to
adopt a similar approach. 
In UK Rail we continue to build on our excellent record of
delivering benefits to passengers through improved operating
performance, enhanced service quality and the introduction 
of new rolling stock. We are bidding for a number of new rail
franchises which fit with our geographic and strategic profile 
of operations. 
I am pleased to announce the appointment of Martyn Williams
to the Board as a Non-Executive Employee Director. Martyn
works for our UK Bus division in Swansea and has over 25
years’ experience in the industry. At the end of March 2003,
Robbie Duncan, Business Change Director, retired from the
Group. I would like to thank Robbie for his contribution to the
development of the business since its formation eight years ago.
Exceptional customer service is fundamental to our business. 
I would like to thank all of our staff for their hard work and
continued commitment to the business, which has resulted 
in another successful year for the Group.
Our strategy is clear. We continue to focus on delivering
shareholder value by developing our business in markets which
offer the best opportunity for profitable growth and in areas
where we can utilise our core skills. We have a well-balanced
portfolio of businesses which are relatively resilient to economic
downturn and are not heavily impacted by macro economic
trends. The Group’s strong cash generation underpins the
continuing programme of investment in the business, share
repurchase and dividend growth. I believe that the prospects
for the Group are excellent.
Martin Gilbert
Chairman
*Operating profit referred to in this statement and in the Chief Executive’s review 
and Financial review refers to operating profit before goodwill amortisation and 
exceptional items.
