 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04
OUR STRATEGY REMAINS TO INCREASE SHAREHOLDER VALUE
BY CONTINUING TO GROW IN OUR CORE BUSINESSES AND
EXPLORE OPPORTUNITIES TO DEVELOP IN NEW MARKETS. WE
REMAIN COMMITTED TO A PROGRESSIVE DIVIDEND POLICY AND
SHARE REPURCHASES WHILE RETAINING OUR CREDIT RATING.
The accident at Ufton Nervet in November, 
in which one of our First Great Western
trains collided with a vehicle obstructing the
line at a level crossing, resulted in the tragic
loss of seven lives, including our train driver.
On behalf of the Board of FirstGroup plc and
all of our employees I would like to express
our condolences to the families of the
bereaved and to the injured.
The safety of passengers and staff is 
our highest priority. Buses and trains 
remain among the safest ways to travel 
and we continuously strive to improve 
our performance to achieve the 
highest standards. 
I am pleased to report another year of good
progress across the Group. Turnover has
increased to £2,693m (2004: £2,479m) 
and proﬁt before tax increased to £128.9m
(2004: £122.8m). EBITDA (Group operating
proﬁt* plus depreciation) increased to
£319.2m (2004: £307.1m). Adjusted basic
earnings per share has increased to 28.2p
(2004: 27.3p) and the Board has proposed 
a ﬁnal dividend, subject to approval by
shareholders, of 8.69p making a full year
payment of 12.815p, an increase of 10%.
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, the dividend is covered 2.2 times 
and will be paid on 26 August 2005 to
shareholders on the register on 22 July
2005. The dividend increase reﬂects the
Board’s conﬁdence in the Group’s strong
cash generation and growth prospects. 
The Board is conﬁdent that this level of
dividend growth is sustainable for the
medium term.
A number of strategic acquisitions and rail
franchise wins occurred during the year
which further strengthened our core
business. In October we commenced
operation of First ScotRail, Scotland’s
national railway and the UK’s largest rail
franchise, providing over 2,000 passenger
services a day. We have also been shortlisted
for four new rail franchises; Greater Western,
Integrated Kent, Thameslink/Great Northern
and Docklands Light Railway. In North
America we made the strategic acquisition,
through First Services, of SKE Support
Services Inc. enabling us to enter the large
Federal services market and almost doubling
the size of our existing services operation. 
I am pleased to report the successful
integration of this business which we expect
to be able to expand further. During the year
we made a signiﬁcant acquisition in our
North American student business adding 
a further 1,900 school buses to our ﬂeet. 
Dr Mike Mitchell, previously Business
Change Director, who stepped down from
the Board last year prior to his planned
retirement, left the Group in April 2005 and
subsequently took up the post of Director
General of Railways at the Department for
Transport. I would like to thank Mike for his
contribution to the Group and wish him 
every success in his new role.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank
our employees for their continued hard work
and commitment in delivering another year of
strong growth and earnings, including those
employees at First North Western who left
the Group during the year. I would also like
to welcome new employees including those
at First ScotRail and First Great Western Link
and staff who joined through acquisitions
made in North America.
Our UK Bus business continues to generate
strong cash ﬂows and we are actively
working with Government and Local
Authorities to introduce services that meet
the needs of the communities, alongside bus
priority schemes and other measures to
reduce trafﬁc congestion. We look forward 
to building on our strong record of delivery 
in the rail industry and submitting our exciting
proposals for the development of new
franchises. In North America we continue 
to grow our Student, Transit and Services
businesses. Since we entered the market six
years ago we have grown First Student by
some 10,000 buses and overall we have
increased earnings in our North American
businesses by over 70%.
Our strategy remains to increase shareholder
value by continuing to grow in our core
businesses and explore opportunities to
develop in new markets. While we continue
to invest for growth we remain committed 
to a progressive dividend policy and share
repurchases of up to £30m per annum, 
while retaining our BBB credit rating.
Martin Gilbert
Chairman
*Operating proﬁt referred to in this statement and in the
Chief Executive’s Review and Financial Review refers to
operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation, bid costs
and other exceptional items.
