 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OVERVIEW
Safety
The safety and security of our passengers
and staff is at the forefront of everything we
do and we continue to promote a culture 
of ‘Safety First’ throughout our business. 
We continually assess our processes and
working practices and strive to meet the
highest possible standards. I am pleased to
report that during the period we have again
seen some encouraging trends in key safety
indicators and we will continue to ensure 
that we build on these improvements. The
separate Corporate Responsibility Report
details the progress we have made to further
improve our performance in respect of safety,
environmental management and other key
areas of our business.
Results
I am very pleased to report another
successful year with expansion in our core
markets in the US and UK. Group turnover
increased by 8.6% to £2,693m (2004:
£2,479m). Operating proﬁt was £211.6m
(2004: £204.1m). The Group generated
EBITDA (operating proﬁt plus depreciation) 
of £319.2m (2004: £307.1m) enabling us to
continue to invest in the business as well as
increasing the dividend by 10% and returning
£29.7m to shareholders through the further
repurchase of equity during the year. 
Since the acquisition of our North American
business and the growth of our UK rail
operations the Group’s revenue proﬁle has
substantially altered. Some 80% of the
revenue in our North American operations 
is secured under medium-term contracts.
The Group has contracts with government
agencies and other large organisations in
both North America and the UK representing
a secure revenue stream worth £4.9 billion.
As we expand our North American
businesses and continue to grow our UK 
rail operations we expect this ﬁgure to
increase signiﬁcantly. 
UK RAIL
The UK Rail division operates passenger 
and freight services in the UK. Passenger 
rail franchises consist of First Great Western,
First Great Western Link, First TransPennine
Express and First ScotRail. We also operate
Hull Trains, a non-franchised open access
intercity passenger train operator, and 
we provide rail freight services through 
GB Railfreight. 
Results
Turnover in the Group’s rail division 
increased to £1,059.7m (2004: £945.0m)
and operating proﬁt was £67.7m (2004:
£49.8m). These excellent results reﬂect 
the strong operating performance and
increased passenger volumes across all 
of our train operating companies and the
commencement of First ScotRail in 
October 2004.
Current operations
On 17 October we commenced operation of
First ScotRail. The handover went smoothly
and, despite the adverse weather at the start
of the year, operator delays have been
reduced by 5% on the comparable period
last year. This reﬂects the enormous effort
and investment being applied to ﬂeet
reliability and performance. Passenger
journeys have increased by 8% on the
comparable period last year and we have
introduced an improved timetable to provide
increased capacity and cleaner, more
frequent services. In April we introduced the
ﬁnal delivery of new Class 170 Turbostar
trains, funded by the Scottish Executive and
Strathclyde Passenger Transport, which will
provide longer trains and extra seats on a
number of routes. In February we launched
JourneyCheck, the UK’s ﬁrst fully integrated
train information service, enabling
passengers to receive instant information 
on how services are running and details of
planned engineering works using real time
information via website, WAP and PDA
phones and through SMS text messaging. 
First TransPennine Express, which
commenced operation on 1 February 2004,
05
THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF OUR PASSENGERS AND STAFF IS
AT THE FOREFRONT OF EVERYTHING WE DO AND WE CONTINUE
TO PROMOTE A CULTURE OF ‘SAFETY FIRST’ THROUGHOUT 
OUR BUSINESS. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
has performed well with passenger income
increased by 11.5%. Passenger volumes are
running ahead of our expectations as a result
of increased road congestion on the main
commuter corridor between Manchester and
Leeds. A new timetable was introduced in
December offering passengers faster journey
times, additional services and extra capacity.
In March work commenced to build a new
train-care depot in Manchester with a
second new depot planned for York. In
spring 2006 we will introduce 51 new
Siemens trains for the franchise, offering
passengers in the region a modern, high-
performance intercity ﬂeet and a step-
change in the quality of service we are 
able to offer.
Operational performance on First Great
Western has continued to improve. In
January we opened a new First Class
business lounge at London Paddington 
for passengers. Our investment in the new
lounge recognises that the ability to ‘work 
on the move’ is a key attraction of train 
travel and provides a range of facilities
including a meeting room, internet access 
as well as complimentary newspapers 
and refreshments. In February, First Great
Western launched the redesigned High
Speed Train carriages in preparation for the
Greater Western franchise bid. A number 
of improvements have been made to the
exterior including a striking new livery. The
interior has been redesigned, with customer
input, to create a contemporary and modern
on-board environment with improved
customer services such as an updated 
buffet facility and Wi-Fi technology. 
We were delighted that First Great Western’s
Chippenham Station won the award for
‘Station Excellence’ at the HSBC Rail
Awards. This award, which has been won 
by First Great Western for the last two years,
follows a signiﬁcant investment in the
refurbishment of the station. 
On 1 April 2004 we commenced operation of
the First Great Western Link franchise which
operates surburban services from London
Paddington. In December we launched an
integrated timetable for First Great Western
and First Great Western Link. This major
overhaul to the scheduling of services enables
us to offer up to 20% increased capacity on
surburban services and improved long
distance services to Wales and the South
West. In June we will launch the new
Heathrow Connect service, in partnership with
British Airports Authority, calling at intermediate
stops between London Paddington and
Heathrow using new electric trains.
Hull Trains, our non-franchised, open access
intercity train company operating between
London Kings Cross and Hull, performed well
during the year with passenger growth of
20%. In June we introduced a new weekday
service and received further regulatory
approval in December for an additional
Saturday service. 
GB Railfreight
GB Railfreight (GBRf), our rail freight
company, has continued to show
encouraging growth. New business was 
won during the year including contracts for
Royal Mail and the Tarmac Group. During 
the period GBRf took delivery of new
container wagons and refurbished
locomotives to support the new contracts.
We were delighted that GBRf won ‘Rail
Business of the Year’ and picked up the
‘Rolling Stock Excellence’ award at the
HSBC Rail Awards in February this year. 
We believe that there is scope to further
expand this business by offering a high level
of service and a ﬂexible business model.
Franchise bidding
We are delighted to be shortlisted for a
further four new enlarged rail franchises:
Integrated Kent, Greater Western,
Thameslink/Great Northern and Docklands
Light Railway. We have an excellent track
record of delivery and operation of various
types of railway franchises including intercity,
London commuter, suburban and regional
railways. In addition we have managed and
20%
WE LAUNCHED A NEW INTEGRATED TIMETABLE FOR 
FIRST GREAT WESTERN AND FIRST GREAT WESTERN LINK
DESIGNED TO BRING CUSTOMER AND PERFORMANCE
BENEFITS SUCH AS BETTER PUNCTUALITY AND RELIABILITY,
IMPROVED CONNECTIONS AND INCREASED CAPACITY, BY 
UP TO 20%, ON PEAK TIME SERVICES.
06 06 implemented the introduction of new rolling
stock across four of our rail franchises. 
We have a highly experienced team in place
and look forward to consulting widely and
working with all of the stakeholders to
develop exciting proposals for the future 
of these franchises.
Outlook UK Rail
The strong performance of our rail operations
reﬂects the innovation and investment we
have put into the business. Our aim is to
bring a consistently high standard of service
at affordable prices to our passengers. 
We have an active programme of new
franchise bids under way which offer 
excellent prospects for the future growth 
of the division.
NORTH AMERICA
In North America the Group is the second
largest operator of student transportation
with over 20,000 yellow school buses
carrying nearly 2 million students every day
across the US and Canada. We operate the
largest transit contracting and management
business in North America and we have an
expanding services division. 
Results
This has been another year of strong 
growth within our North American Division.
Turnover from our three businesses
increased to £665.8m or $1,230.2m 
(2004: £620.7m or $1,051.6m), an increase
in dollar terms of 17%. Operating proﬁt 
was £61.2m or $113.2m (2004: £63.5m or
$109.2m). Operating proﬁt in First Student
was impacted by $5.2m as a result of fewer
trading days in the year due primarily to a
late Labor Day in the calendar, which meant
that the North Eastern and mid Atlantic
regions of the US had a later school start,
and the early occurrence of Easter this year.
The lost revenue days will be added to the
end of the school year and therefore will be
recognised in our results in 2005/06. 
Our three North American businesses
continue to generate excellent returns with
EBITDA of £108.1m or $199.9m (2004:
£107.1m or $183.7m) and remain self-
financing for maintenance capital expenditure,
organic growth and in-ﬁll acquisitions. 
First Student
I am pleased with the performance of this
business during the year. During the period 
we retained over 90% of our current
business that came up for renewal. US Dollar
turnover increased by 9.4%. Operating proﬁt
was impacted by the reduced number of
trading days this period, as outlined above,
which will be added to 2005/06. In addition
we also experienced an increase in state
employer’s payroll taxes in the states in
which we operate. We now operate over
20,000 yellow school buses in the US and
Canada. The increase in the period is largely
due to the acquisition of Cardinal Coach
Lines, made in the last quarter of the year,
which operates some 1,900 school buses in
the provinces of Alberta, British Columbia,
Ontario and the North West Territories of
Canada and Los Angeles, California. We
continued to make good progress
throughout the year gaining contracts to
operate approximately 700 buses gained
through new business wins, in-ﬁll
acquisitions and organic growth within
existing contracts. 
Looking forward we are conﬁdent that we
will be able to continue to grow through a
combination of organic growth, share shift,
conversions and acquisitions at our target
margins.
First Transit
US Dollar turnover increased by 15.2% and
operating proﬁt by 3.7%. We won new
contracts to operate and manage transit
systems in Virginia, Massachusetts, Ohio,
New Hampshire, Idaho, Georgia, California,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Texas, Arkansas,
South Carolina and North Carolina. During
the year we were very pleased to retain the
contract to operate the largest paratransit
call centre in New York and to win two
WE CONTINUE TO EXPAND OUR NORTH AMERICAN SCHOOL
BUS OPERATION. WE NOW OPERATE OVER 20,000 YELLOW
SCHOOL BUSES, CARRYING NEARLY 2 MILLION STUDENTS
ACROSS THE USA AND CANADA EVERY DAY.
>20,000
NORTH AMERICA TURNOVER ($m)
Student $674.4m
Transit $380.7m
Services $175.1m
07 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
further contracts for call centres in Portland,
Oregon. In November we acquired a small
business in New York providing paratransit
services in the Greater Buffalo area. We have
signiﬁcantly developed our shuttle business,
providing buses at airports, universities and
for corporate organisations. We are now one
of the largest operators of airport shuttle
services in the US, providing bus services at
airports in cities such as Cincinnati, Miami,
Houston and Philadelphia. During the year
we were pleased to win further shuttle
service contracts to serve Baltimore Airport
and for the University of Texas.
First Transit’s strategy is to focus on the
higher margin, faster growing call centre,
paratransit, logistics consultancy and
public/private shuttle bus markets where 
we can utilise our management expertise
and continue to proﬁtably expand these
businesses.
First Services
This has been a very successful year for our
Services division, which provides a range of
outsourced vehicle maintenance, operations
and support services to the public and
private sectors. US Dollar turnover increased
by 67.6% and operating proﬁt by 96.1%
reﬂecting eight months trading contribution
from our support services business acquired
in August, together with strong growth in
First Vehicle Services.
We were very pleased to retain all of our
contracts that came up for renewal during
the period. In addition, we won new
business to provide vehicle maintenance
services to customers including the State of
Virginia, City of Pittsburgh and McGuire Air
Force Base in New Jersey.  
We were particularly pleased that two of our
vehicle maintenance contracts received
recognition, from leading industry
publications, in the categories of ‘Best
Fleets’ and ‘Top Fleet Managers’ in the US.
In August we acquired SKE Support
Services Inc., now First Support Services,
which has annualised turnover of $88m and
provides a range of services including vehicle
ﬂeet maintenance, logistics support and
facilities management to the US Federal
Government and the private sector. 
In December, First Support Services, 
with their partners The Day and Zimmerman
Group Inc. and Parsons Corporation, won 
the substantial contract to provide a range 
of land-based support services to the 
US Navy. 
We are delighted with the performance of
this strategic acquisition which has
integrated well and provides us with entry 
to the growing US Federal market, one of
North America’s largest procurers of 
support services. 
Investment 
Our North American business is self-funding
for maintenance capital expenditure and
growth through contract wins and in-ﬁll
acquisitions. Each new investment, including
new contract bids, must meet our internal rate
of return targets. All of the acquisitions made
by this division have delivered excellent returns
reinforcing our rigorous criteria for investment. 
Outlook North America
We are extremely pleased with the
performance of our North American division
which continues to deliver excellent returns
for shareholders. We are conﬁdent that
further growth will be achieved through our
proven strategy of combining organic growth
with well matched acquisitions. 
UK BUS
The Group is the largest bus operator in the
UK with a ﬂeet of 9,300 buses, and a market
share of approximately 23%. We carry some
2.8 million passengers every day.
Results
Turnover increased to £960.7m (2004:
£906.2m) and operating proﬁt before lease
OUR NORTH AMERICAN SERVICES DIVISION HAD A VERY
SUCCESSFUL YEAR, ALMOST DOUBLING IN SIZE AND
EARNINGS. THE STRATEGIC ACQUISITION OF SKE GAVE 
US ENTRY TO THE GROWING US FEDERAL MARKET, ONE 
OF THE LARGEST PROCURERS OF SUPPORT SERVICES 
IN NORTH AMERICA.
08 ﬁnancing costs was £107.1m (2004:
£111.2m). Operating proﬁt was impacted 
by £5.0m as a result of a strike in South
Yorkshire that was settled in the summer. We
continue to focus on service quality with the
aim of improving vehicle reliability and
minimising lost mileage. During the year we
have made signiﬁcant investment in our
maintenance and engineering functions. We
expect to see the full beneﬁt of this increased
investment over the next few years and are
encouraged to see that during the period
lost mileage was signiﬁcantly reduced. While
margins remain under pressure in UK Bus
our focus is to achieve sustainable growth in
proﬁts through high-quality customer service
and increased patronage.
Contracted bus services
We have continued to see good growth in our
London bus operations. Growth in the
London tendered bus market is moderating
following the successful implementation of the
congestion charge in 2003 and the substantial
increase in buses introduced to meet the
additional service requirements. We are well
placed with enlarged depot facilities at
Willesden Junction that will enhance our
competitive advantage if the congestion
charge is extended to West London. Similarly
we are developing a facility in Dagenham that
will provide increased capacity and position us
well for the signiﬁcant demographic growth
anticipated in the Thames Gateway area. 
In addition to developing our commercial
services we have grown our contracted bus
and coach operations. Private Hire and
Contract business is now organised on a
national basis and a dedicated sales and
delivery team is in place. During the period
contracts were secured with customers
including Network Rail, Virgin Trains, National
Express Coaches and Manchester Metrolink.
We operated contract services in connection
with special events such as the Glastonbury
Festival, York Railfest and Royal Ascot.
Urban areas
In urban operations outside London, which
represent almost 60% of UK Bus turnover,
we continue to see growth in those areas
where we are able to work with Local
Authorities to provide trafﬁc management
measures to improve congestion. Passenger
growth continues to be driven by a mixture
of marketing initiatives and partnerships with
Local Authorities to develop bus priority
schemes. Our policy is to target capital
investment to those areas where there is 
a clear commitment to support the use of
public transport. 
Passenger growth was strong in areas such
as Bristol and York where we have Quality
Partnerships in place. The Overground, our
successful simpliﬁed route and fares
structure, continues to provide growth in
areas such as Leicester and Leeds where
passenger growth has increased by up to
60% on individual routes since introduction.
In York, where we have seen passenger
growth of up to 40% on individual routes, 
we now operate ﬁve Park and Ride schemes.
During the year we carried over 3 million
passengers in our Park and Ride operations
across the city.
In March we launched our premium urban
travel concept known as ftr. The Secretary
of State for Transport joined over 175 key
stakeholders, including Local Authorities, to
launch the ‘Streetcar’ vehicle which will be
used to deliver the ftr package. We
developed Streetcar in partnership with the
Wright Group and Volvo after consulting
extensively with customers, engineers and
drivers. It is designed to offer an economical
alternative to light rail services, giving
passengers an exceptionally high-quality,
light rail-like, product with dedicated road
space in congested areas, but with the route
ﬂexibility of a bus. The advantage of ftr is
that it can be introduced quickly, without
major upheaval on roads and at a fraction of
the cost of a light rail scheme. The ﬁrst ftr
service will begin in York later this year and
detailed plans are being developed for other
IN JULY WE OPENED OUR FIFTH PARK 
AND RIDE SITE IN YORK WHICH IS ALREADY
OPERATING OVER 15,000 JOURNEYS PER
WEEK. DURING THE YEAR MORE THAN 
3 MILLION PASSENGERS USED OUR PARK 
AND RIDE SERVICES ACROSS YORK.
09
P +
Park and Ride
09 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
WE HAVE LAUNCHED A NEW CONCEPT IN PUBLIC TRANSPORT.
f t r LOOKS LIKE A TRAM, USES DEDICATED ROAD SPACE 
IN CONGESTED AREAS, BUT HAS THE ROUTE FLEXIBILITY OF 
A BUS. OUR AIM IS TO TAKE 10% OF CAR JOURNEYS OFF THE
ROADS, ON THE CORRIDORS THAT f t r SERVES, WITHIN FIVE
TO SIX YEARS.
schemes in cities such as Leeds, Shefﬁeld,
Swansea, Reading, Bath and Glasgow. 
We continue to develop new initiatives to
promote our services to a wide range of
customers. During the year we successfully
piloted a high-frequency, low fare shuttle
service using mid-life vehicles to link lower-
income inner city suburbs with the city centre
in Leicester. This proved extremely
successful with encouraging passenger and
revenue growth and we plan to extend this
trial to other targeted areas during 2005.
Rural operations
In our rural operations, which represent
approximately 20% of our UK Bus business,
we are developing projects that will meet the
Government’s joint objectives of social
inclusion and reducing trafﬁc congestion.
Kickstart funding, which provides support for
services which have the potential to become
commercially viable, is already active in
Scotland and has recently been introduced
in England and Wales with further schemes
expected later in the year. 
We continually look for innovative ways in
which we can better serve the rural
communities in which we operate. Our dial-
a-ride service operating in Carmarthenshire
recently won the ‘Community Transport
Award’ at the Welsh Transport Awards. In
the South West we have worked with
Plymouth and Cornwall councils to provide a
new ﬂeet of specially branded buses for
operation on the ferry bus corridor between
South East Cornwall and Plymouth, a key
travel to work corridor.
Yellow school bus
During the year we were pleased to
commence operation of two further yellow
school bus operations in Northampton and
Carmarthenshire. This initiative continues to
attract interest and it is our view that, with
support from Government and Local
Authorities, there is signiﬁcant potential to
develop this business.
Investment
We have continued to focus our capital
expenditure in urban areas with high
passenger growth such as Glasgow,
Portsmouth, Halifax and Huddersﬁeld. During
the year £66.2m was spent on new, low-ﬂoor,
easy access vehicles and £11.7m has been
spent on facilities, including a new depot in
Chelmsford. New buses have also been
ordered for Aberdeen, Bath, Edinburgh,
Leicester, Manchester, Northampton and
Swansea and will be delivered later this year.
Costs
This was a year of signiﬁcant investment in
our engineering function with the continued
roll out of standardised maintenance
procedures across all companies and
depots, new approaches to the timing of
inspection and repair, together with greater
emphasis on staff training. We expect these
reforms to reduce unit costs over the
medium term.
Lost mileage, our principal measure of
service quality, improved during the year 
and we have targeted further reductions for
2005/06. Towards the end of last year the
Trafﬁc Commissioners and Department for
Transport published new standards for bus
service punctuality, and Local Authorities in
England were given new duties to take
account of bus services under the Trafﬁc
Management Act. We are currently
developing Punctuality Improvement
Partnerships with local highway authorities 
to progress these changes which we 
believe will give further impetus to bus
priority measures.
Outlook UK Bus
We welcome the Government’s
announcement that free concessionary travel
for pensioners and disabled people will be
introduced in England from April 2006. We
will be reviewing our networks in advance of
the introduction to enable concessionary fare
passengers to beneﬁt from the new travel
opportunities that will be created.
10 FirstGroup
Poland
Czech
Republic
WE WERE THE FIRST IN OUR INDUSTRY TO SOURCE BUS
DRIVERS AND ENGINEERS FROM ALTERNATIVE LABOUR
MARKETS, IN PARTICULAR EASTERN EUROPE. SO FAR WE
HAVE RECRUITED SOME 350 STAFF FROM POLAND, THE
CZECH REPUBLIC, PORTUGAL, MALTA AND SLOVAKIA TO
ADDRESS THE IMPORTANT ISSUE OF RECRUITMENT AND
RETENTION IN OUR INDUSTRY. 
Our UK Bus business continues to generate
strong cash ﬂows. Overall revenue growth
has been strong and we expect this to
continue in the current year. Our focus
remains on increasing passenger volumes,
continuing to develop the business in other
areas such as contracted bus services, while
maintaining a rigorous cost control and
process improvement programme.
EMPLOYEES
We further strengthened the Executive
Management Team with the appointments of
Nicola Shaw, formerly Managing Director of
Operations at the Strategic Rail Authority and
Andrew Haines, formerly Managing Director
of South West Trains. Nicola, who joins as
Business Change Director, will focus on the
Group’s bus operations. Andrew will become
Managing Director of the Rail Division. Both
are highly respected within the industry and I
am conﬁdent that they will make a signiﬁcant
contribution to the Group. 
I would like to thank all our staff for their
continued commitment to the Group. Our
aim is to offer our staff opportunities to
develop and grow to reach their full potential.
We continually engage with our staff to better
understand their views and concerns
through a range of informal meetings 
at depot level to a more formal staff
satisfaction survey.
The recruitment and retention of high-quality
staff is a key issue within our industry. We
continue to implement a range of initiatives
within our operating companies to address
this important issue. In our UK Bus division
we were the ﬁrst in the industry to source
drivers and engineers from alternative labour
markets primarily in Eastern Europe. We
have recruited some 350 staff from Poland,
the Czech Republic, Portugal, Malta and
Slovakia. We are pleased that employee
turnover in our North American division has
reduced again this year. 
We continue to encourage our staff to further
their development and careers within the
Group. During the year we extended our
National Vocational Qualiﬁcation (NVQ) and
BTEC programmes in the UK. Some 16% of
bus drivers are now qualiﬁed to NVQ level 2
in Road Passenger Transport and within the
last year 60 supervisors and managers
gained qualiﬁcations in Team Leadership. We
are actively developing workplace learning
centres, in partnership with the Transport
and General Workers Union, and now have
32 learning centres reaching 30% of
employees in the UK. We have plans to
signiﬁcantly increase the coverage over 
the next two years so that more of our 
UK employees can gain access to 
workplace learning. 
In the US, both First Transit and First Vehicle
Services participate in the Automotive
Service Excellence (ASE) programme for
training and testing technicians. Within First
Transit 35% of eligible employees hold ASE
certiﬁcates and within First Vehicle Services
the ﬁgure is 70%. First Vehicle Services
continues to support staff development
through non-vocational training and
encourages employees in self-development
activities. At First Student we have
introduced the ‘Smith System of Defensive
Driving’ to enable school bus drivers 
to perform their duties safely in all 
trafﬁc conditions.
In FirstGroup America we continue to
develop our management training
programmes. First Student implemented two
new programmes this year. The ﬁrst is
designed to update managers on
communication techniques, interviewing and
recruitment, ﬁnancial reporting and customer
service skills. The second programme has
been designed for new Contract Managers
and covers First Student’s approach to
safety, operations management and human
resources such as the importance of
diversity in the workplace. 
First Transit continues to train frontline
supervisors in an intensive four-day training
course through ‘First Transit University’ which
11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
teaches new and existing managers the
Company’s approach to safety, operations
management, client relations and human
resources. First Transit has also formed a
General Managers Advisory Group with
representatives from eight contract locations.
The Advisory Group provides a focus group
to discuss speciﬁc issues for feedback to 
the Board.
ENVIRONMENT AND
COMMUNITY
Our environmental management framework
is now well established and all our
companies and depots are audited against
the requirements of the Group Environmental
Management System. During the year we
established the Group Environment Forum to
set the minimum performance standards for
each operating company and identify key
objectives and targets for improvement. 
As a result of local depot initiatives and
incentives for staff, energy usage in our
depots continued to reduce during the year.
For example, water usage fell by a further
4.4% and energy consumption by 6% in our
UK Bus division alone. Our bus operating
companies reduced the overall general
waste arising by a further 5%. As part of our
ongoing awareness campaign an additional
7,027 staff have received environmental
training over the past 12 months.
During the year we continued to support
Future Forests, a ‘carbon neutral’ tree 
planting initiative to offset CO 2
emissions.
Through our support 1,500 trees have 
been planted in Devon. In connection with
Future Forests we also supported an
awareness campaign for primary school
children in the South West to promote 
the environmental beneﬁts associated with
public transport.
We are pleased to feature in the FTSE4Good
Environmental Index as well as in the
Business in the Community Corporate Social
Responsibility Index, covering the broader
corporate social responsibility issues. In
recognition of our commitment to improving
the environment we were delighted to
receive the National Green Apple Award 
for the fourth consecutive year as well as
environmental awards from Network Rail, 
the Bus Industry Awards and the Railway
Industry Innovation Awards.
During the year the Group and its staff in 
the UK and North America have continued 
to support a number of local and national
charities. All of our operating companies
support local events either through donations,
sponsorship or use of resources and facilities
made available to them by the Group. Further
details of all these activities can be found in
our Corporate Responsibility Report which is
published separately and is available on our
website www.ﬁrstgroup.com.
GROUP OUTLOOK
I look forward to continued growth in our
three North American businesses all of which
have highly dependable revenue streams of
which approximately 80% are covered by
medium-term contracts. In UK Rail we are
well positioned to beneﬁt from rail
refranchising having been shortlisted for four
new rail franchises, worth up to £1.1 billion
of turnover, in the current round. In UK Bus
we are seeing further growth in areas where
we can work with Local Authorities to
implement bus priority and other trafﬁc
management measures and we continue 
to focus on cost control and process
improvements. Our strategy remains to use
the Group’s strong free cash ﬂows to invest
in the business and explore opportunities for
growth in new markets, increase dividends
and buy back shares, while maintaining a
strong balance sheet. I am conﬁdent about
our future prospects. Trading in the new
ﬁnancial year has started well and is in line
with our expectations.
Moir Lockhead
Chief Executive
-6.0%
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK IS NOW
WELL ESTABLISHED AND WE ARE ENCOURAGED BY THE
CONTINUED REDUCTION IN ENERGY USAGE IN OUR DEPOTS.
IN THE BUS DIVISION ALONE, ENERGY CONSUMPTION 
FELL BY A FURTHER 6% THIS YEAR AS A RESULT OF LOCAL
DEPOT INITIATIVES AND INCENTIVES FOR STAFF.
12
