 3 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s review
All of our businesses have delivered a
very strong performance. Our strategy
is focused on delivering high quality
services for customers and value 
for shareholders.
Overview
Safety
The safety and security of our passengers and staff is
fundamental to everything that we do. We continually seek
to improve the safety culture throughout our business and
apply a ‘zero tolerance’ approach to unsafe acts and
practices. Over the past few years we have made great
strides in improving our working practices and procedures
and in monitoring our performance in this area. We are
never complacent and continually strive to meet the
highest possible standards of safety for our passengers
and staff. For example, our Injury Prevention Programme
(IPP) is not only innovative but unprecedented in our
industry. I am pleased to report that IPP has been rolled out
across all of our operations and is designed to engage all
our staff and encourage good safety practices to embed
the safety culture in all of our operations. 
Results
I am delighted with the excellent performance of the 
Group which has delivered a record year of growth. 
Group revenue increased by 22.4% to £3,708.8m (2006:
£3,030.9m). Adjusted operating profit was £259.2m 
(2006: £229.7m). This strong performance is all the more
notable as we have faced strong headwinds during the
year , primarily the significant rise in fuel costs. In these
results operating profit was impacted by £37.1m by
additional fuel costs. Foreign exchange translation on
North American results reduced sterling earnings year on
year by £3.8m - the average rate for 2006/07 was $1.89
compared to $1.79 for 2005/06. Profit before tax was
£140.2m (2006: £157.4m) reflecting higher one-off costs
primarily as a result of non-recurring rail franchise
mobilisation costs and lower property results. Strong cash
generation is a feature of this business and I am pleased to
report that the Group generated record EBITDA (adjusted
operating profit plus depreciation) of £398.9m (2006:
£351.7m) an increase of 13.4%, enabling us to continue 
to invest in the business as well as increasing the dividend
by 10% for the third consecutive year .
UK Rail
The UK Rail division operates passenger and freight
services in the UK. We have a strong, balanced portfolio 
of intercity, regional and commuter franchises. Passenger
rail franchises consist of First Great Western, First Capital
Connect, First T ransPennine Express and First ScotRail.
We also operate Hull T rains, a non-franchised open access
intercity passenger train operator , and we provide rail
freight services through GB Railfreight. We are the UK’s
largest rail operator carrying almost 260 million passengers
per annum.
Results
Our successful rail division has delivered its best ever 
year of growth. We are committed to the long-term
development of railways in the UK and are investing to
deliver improved services for passengers. We are the 
only operator to run every type of overground rail service 
in the UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight
sleepers to local branch lines, regional and commuter
services and open access, light rail and freight operations.
We will continue to build on our reputation of investment,
innovation and customer service. 
Operating profit
UK Rail £108.8m
UK Bus £103.0m
North America £68.2m
Excluding central items of £20.8m
Revenue
UK Rail £1,824.1m
UK Bus £1,073.7m
North America £802.9m
Excluding other revenue of £8.1m 4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Revenue in the Group’s rail division increased by 56.6% 
to £1,824.1m (2006: £1,164.9m) and operating profit
increased by 36.7% to £108.8m (2006: £79.6m) reflecting
a full year contribution from the new and enlarged rail
franchises together with strong volume growth across 
our network. Across all of our rail operations we have
experienced good growth in passenger volumes. 
First Great Western
At First Great Western we are working hard to ensure that
we deliver our franchise plans and we are investing £200m
to improve the services we offer our customers. Since 
we commenced operation of the new enlarged franchise
(combining First Great Western, First Great Western Link
and Wessex T rains) we have integrated three diverse
railway businesses into one operation. First Great Western
operates more high speed trains into London than any
other operator and provides train services for 1.5 million
passengers each week. 
During the past 12 months we have consolidated depots,
introduced a new management structure and common
systems, brought together 4,400 staff, introduced new
amalgamated timetables, commenced a substantial fleet
refurbishment programme and started the many major
improvements which we committed to as part of our
franchise. Despite our best efforts to ensure a seamless
transition we faced some operational challenges
principally as a result of changing the rolling stock
maintenance depot and the introduction of a new
consolidated timetable. We made great efforts to swiftly
rectify those issues, the majority of which we have now
overcome. The new timetables which will be introduced in
May and December this year will further improve services. 
As part of our £145m investment to completely overhaul
the High Speed T rain (HST) fleet, we have commenced the
installation of new more reliable, environmentally friendly
engines. We have already fitted 42 new engines which
have improved operating performance, doubled reliability,
cut CO2 emissions by 64% and smoke emissions by 42%.
The remainder of these new engines will be in place by 
the end of this year . We are also making good progress 
on our fleet refurbishment programme. A new stylish and
contemporary interior for the HST s will offer a step change
in quality for rail passengers and provide an additional 
3 million seats for passengers per annum. The first of these
new designed carriages are now in service and we are 
on track to complete the refurbishment of more than 
405 carriages by the end of the financial year . We are also
spending £4m on an interior refresh of our fleet of regional
trains. The new platform at Bristol Parkway opened in May
2007 and will ease congestion of trains into and departing
from the station and reduce delays for passengers
travelling to London, Wales, Birmingham and the South
West. We are working with Network Rail to upgrade the
majority of the Reading to London relief line to 90mph 
by mid-2008 creating greater capacity, reliability and
improved journey times for commuters in the Thames
Valley. We have progressed our plans to deliver a range 
of improvements across the franchise area including the
installation of automatic ticket gates at Exeter St Davids,
Plymouth and Swindon, reducing both ticket fraud and
crime on the railways. We have also invested in station
A year into the franchise First
Capital Connect is working on 
a range of initiatives to increase
capacity across the network.
We have started a programme
to refresh our Class 319 trains,
part of our £30m investment in
the train fleet.
Discounted tickets such 
as First Great Western’s
‘firstminutefares’ have been 
a big success. More than
100,000 are available each
week and 2.2 million have
been sold in just nine months,
saving customers £28m
compared with the equivalent
‘walk up’ fares.
As we improve our services to
give people a real alternative to
using cars and other transport
modes, bus and rail passenger
numbers continue to increase
with strong volume growth in
both our UK Bus division and
across our UK Rail division. 5 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
improvements such as the installation of more than 120
additional ticket vending machines, increased car parking
at stations, refurbished facilities and waiting areas at 
a number of stations across our network. We have
simplified our fares structure and now offer more than
100,000 significantly discounted tickets each week for
advance purchases and off peak travel. For example,
‘firstminutefares’ enables our customers to save up to
80% on regular fares when booking early. This has been
very popular and already more than 2.2 million tickets have
been sold saving customers a total of £28m compared to
the equivalent ‘walk up’ fare. First Great Western faces
major challenges from ageing infrastructure and the effect
this has on performance. We are working closely with
Network Rail, the infrastructure provider , to tackle the
deep-rooted performance issues on the network and
overcome the recurring infrastructure problems on our
main line. A number of initiatives have been designed to
improve performance and we are committed to working 
in partnership to deliver improved infrastructure and
services across our network. 
First Capital Connect
First Capital Connect, which operates across London and
the South East, had an equally busy first 12 months of
operation and made an overall improvement in operational
performance. PPM, the industry measurement of
punctuality and reliability, improved to over 88% and 
we were particularly pleased to achieve the highest ever
recorded PPM of over 95% on the Great Northern part of
the network. We are investing £55m, the majority in the first
three years of the franchise term, to improve the service we
offer our customers. During the year we commenced the
refurbishment of waiting rooms and facilities at a number
of our stations across the network. In addition we
embarked on a programme to refresh the interiors of our
Class 319 fleet. Eight units have already been completed
and we will continue to roll this out to the remaining units 
in due course. In December last year we announced a
further investment of £2m, over and above our franchise
commitment, to improve the interiors of the trains that
operate on the Great Northern route. This additional work,
which will improve on-board comfort for passengers,
commenced in March 2007 and will be completed by the
end of the year . During this period we also brought the
engineering of our fleet in house which delivered greater
service quality and cost efficiency. In April 2007 we
First Capital Connect has
invested £1m to provide 
24 Police Community Support
Officers and five British
Transport Police Officers for
the network and has started to
introduce gatelines at stations
to further improve security for
customers and employees.
Our £145m ‘Refresh’
programme of the First Great
Western HST fleet will improve
reliability, deliver punctuality
benefits and enhance our
customers’ journeys. New
engines for the entire HST fleet
will reduce fuel consumption
by 15% and carbon dioxide
emissions by 64%.
First Great Western and
Network Rail are investing 
£1 billion across the franchise 
in the next two years. Our
investment will improve
punctuality and reliability 
and provide customers 
with an additional 3 million 
seats a year. 
HST investment
£145m 6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
welcomed the announcement by the Department for
T ransport that the remaining 12 Class 319 trains will 
be transferred to First Capital Connect from Southern
Railway. These trains will provide up to 8,000 extra 
seats per day during the peak periods and help to ease
crowding on our very busy Thameslink route. In addition
improvements to be introduced in the May timetable will
also increase capacity at peak times, providing more 
seats for customers in the morning and evening peak with
additional services and an increased number of carriages
on some of our busy routes. One of our key priorities is to
improve security on the network and reduce ticket fraud
through improved revenue protection. We have provided
customers with improved ticketing facilities and have
already reduced revenue leakage through the introduction
of additional staff to carry out further ticket checks and 
the installation of automatic ticket gates at a number of
stations across the network including Blackfriars, City
Thameslink and Stevenage. Further automatic ticket 
gates will be installed at key stations across the network 
in the coming months. We have also invested over £1m 
to provide additional Police Community Support Officers
and British T ransport Police to serve our network. These
initiatives are proven to improve security, reduce ticketless
travel and lessen vandalism.
First ScotRail
We are proud to operate Scotland’s train services through
our First ScotRail operation. Since we took over the
franchise in October 2004 we have established a
successful record of delivering improved services for
passengers together with a strong focus on operating
performance and service quality. We have reduced
operator delays, for which we are responsible, by some
39%, over and above our franchise commitment of 2% 
per annum. Performance has continued to improve over
the year and we are now regularly running services at 
more than 90% punctuality. We were pleased to record 
the highest PPM performance in seven years for the last
period. In addition customer satisfaction has been
recorded at its highest level and outperformed the average
for regional train operators. During the year we continued
to invest in fleet reliability and passenger comfort and also
provided additional services to meet demand such as
increased late night services on 18 routes out of Glasgow
Central on Fridays. Increased security and revenue
protection is a key priority and we have installed automatic
Overall customer satisfaction
with First ScotRail has reached
its highest ever level at 88%,
according to a survey by
Passenger Focus. Punctuality
and reliability are improving
across the network and First
ScotRail has reduced delays 
by 39% since the start of the
franchise in October 2004.
Our successful and innovative
freight business GB Railfreight
has won £45m in new contracts
with customers including Royal
Mail, Metronet, Serco Rail
operations and Drax Power and
added to its fleet with a £28m
investment programme. 
At First TransPennine Express
we have invested £250m in
new trains, improved station
facilities and delivered a more
punctual and reliable service.
Customer satisfaction has
increased and we were
awarded four titles at the
HSBC Rail Business Awards
2006, including ‘Rail Business
of the Y ear’.  7 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
ticket gates at stations including Aberdeen, Ayr , Dundee
and Stirling. Security is further enhanced by the installation
of CCTV on almost the entire First ScotRail fleet and we 
are continuing our investment programme to roll out 
CCTV , customer information systems, induction loops 
and help points at stations across the country. Over the 
last year a number of investments have been made to
improve the level and availability of facilities at stations in 
Scotland. In February 2007, an extension to Haymarket
Depot in Edinburgh was opened. This extension of two
maintenance facilities will assist in further improving 
the reliability of the Class 170 and Class 158 fleets, by
providing the opportunity for more trains to be maintained
more quickly.
First TransPennine Express
First T ransPennine Express had another successful year
with excellent operational performance coupled with
strong revenue and volume growth reflecting the high
demand for its services in the region. Passenger journeys
increased by 7.3% to 18.5 million during the year . 
Our focus on performance has ensured that PPM is
consistently over 90% and overall customer satisfaction
has exceeded the national average for all train operators.
Since we commenced operation of the franchise two 
years ago we have introduced an entire fleet of brand new
100mph Siemens trains which have a range of new, high
quality features such as improved seating, air conditioning,
on-board security cameras and easier access for all
passengers. We continued our station investment
programme during the year and spent £2m refurbishing
waiting areas and customer and staff facilities. We secured
additional funding from the Department for T ransport to
provide accessibility improvements such as automatic
doors, disabled facilities and ticket counters at stations
across our network. During the year we successfully
managed the integration of the Manchester Airport to
Blackpool routes which we took over in June 2006. 
We have demonstrated our competence in delivering 
the process both smoothly and cost efficiently. From
December 2007 we will further extend our T ransPennine
network to operate the Manchester Airport to Glasgow 
and Edinburgh services. We are very proud of our
achievements at First T ransPennine Express and were
delighted that our efforts were recognised by the industry
when we were awarded an unprecedented four national
awards, including ‘Rail Business of the Y ear’ at the HSBC
Rail Business Awards 2006. 
Hull Trains
Hull T rains, our non-franchised, open access intercity 
train company operating between London Kings Cross
and Hull, performed well during the year with strong
passenger volume growth which increased by 30%. In
December we were pleased to be awarded an additional
train path by the Office of Rail Regulation bringing our
number of weekday services to seven in each direction.
This clear response to passenger demand ensures that 
we can offer our customers a greater choice and level 
of service. Our focus on operational performance has
ensured that we are once again ranked as the most reliable
long distance operator on the East Coast Mainline with
performance figures that exceed the industry average for
long distance operators. 
First Great Western is
introducing new and improved
catering services including 
a redesigned buffet and an
extended at-seat service.
Every year First Great Western
customers consume nearly 
1 million litres of tea and
coffee, 400,000 litres of
mineral water and over 
1 million sandwiches.
Hull Trains introduced an
additional weekday service
between Hull and London
Kings Cross taking its total
number of weekday services 
to seven in each direction. 
Over 2 million passengers have
now used Hull Trains services.
First TransPennine Express 
has introduced an entire fleet 
of new trains. This, combined
with our focus on performance
and customer service, has led
to passenger satisfaction
reaching a record high. 8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
GB Railfreight
We are pleased with the progress of GB Railfreight (GBRf),
our innovative and demand responsive freight company.
GBRf enjoyed another successful year winning further
contracts worth some £45m to provide rail freight services
around the UK for customers such as Drax Power , 
EDF Energy, Mendip Rail and Serco. In addition, we were
pleased that Royal Mail extended a contract for GBRf 
to move mail by rail, demonstrating the success of the
operation and the service provided. In August 2006 we
successfully commenced a significant contract to
transport infrastructure materials for Metronet as part 
of the renewal programme on the London Underground. 
In March 2007 we were pleased to run the first freight train
transporting coal between the Port of T yne directly into
Drax Power Station in North Y orkshire. We have invested 
in a number of freight locomotives and wagons in order to
support the new contracts and the ongoing development
of the business. GBRf has delivered further growth and
contract wins through the development of its innovative
and customer focused business model and we are
optimistic about the future prospects for this business.
New franchises
This has been a busy year for the Group as we
commenced operation of our two franchises First Great
Western and First Capital Connect and integrated the 
new areas with existing operations. We are committed to 
a long-term future in the UK’s railways and are delighted to
be shortlisted for three further franchises: East Midlands,
New Cross Country and InterCity East Coast. We have 
an impressive and unrivalled track record of integrating
services and delivering on large investment programmes.
Our bid team is highly experienced and committed to
delivering plans that meet the needs of passengers by
bringing new investment and improved services that are
cost efficient. 
North America
In North America the Group is currently the second largest
provider of student transportation with approximately
22,000 yellow school buses operating every day across
the US and Canada. We operate a transit contracting and
management business in North America and we have a
services division providing fleet maintenance and ancillary
services to public and private sector clients. 
Our North American business has delivered solid and
consistent returns for shareholders since we entered the
market in 1999. During that time we have generated
$1,335.8m of EBITDA. This division is cash generative after
self-financing maintenance capital expenditure, organic
growth within existing contracts and the acquisition of
small in-fill businesses.
Our successful growth in North America confirms our 
view that this is a highly attractive market which offers
significant growth opportunities for our business. We 
have built up significant experience and expertise in 
this marketplace and believe that it offers opportunities 
to deliver further attractive earnings growth and value 
for shareholders. 
On 9 February 2007
FirstGroup announced 
the $3.6 billion proposed
acquisition of Laidlaw
International, Inc. the leading
operator of school buses, the
provider of Greyhound bus
services and a supplier of
public transit services in 
North America.
At First Student over 6,500
drivers have now been trained
in the Smith System Advanced
Driving module, which focuses
on ‘five keys to safe driving’.
All our North American
operating companies now
participate in the Automotive
Service Excellence (ASE)
programme for training 
and testing technicians. 9 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Results 
I am pleased with the performance of our North American
division which delivered margin improvement during the
year . Revenue from our three businesses was £802.9m 
or $1,522.4m (2006: £826.3m or $1,476.0m). Revenue in
these results is £45.8m lower than the prior year due to
foreign exchange movements. Operating profit increased
to £68.2m or $130.5m (2006: £67.1m or $120.2m) despite
absorbing additional fuel costs of $11.2m or £5.9m. 
First Student
We have had a successful year within our school bus
business despite continued fuel cost pressure. US Dollar
revenue increased by 5.4% and operating profit rose by
14.7%. During the year we have worked hard to mitigate
the impact of cost pressures through the contract 
renewal cycle and have won or renewed business on 
terms which reflect the increased costs that we face.
Margin enhancement has been a priority for us this year 
and through contract bidding, tight management of
controllable costs and a strong focus on productivity 
we have improved margins to 10.9% (2006: 10.0%). 
We enjoyed a good bidding season with contract 
retention, which is a key feature of this business, at over
95%. We continued to grow our share of this large, 
fragmented market through a mixture of new contract
wins, organic growth and in-fill acquisitions. During the
year we expanded into Sedona, Arizona and we won 
a significant contract in Savannah, Georgia. In addition 
we completed five tuck-in acquisitions in New Jersey,
Connecticut, New Y ork and Illinois that either complement
our existing operations or enable us to enter new markets.
We were pleased to retain almost 100% of our business 
in Canada which remains an attractive market for First
Student in which we aim to grow further .
Looking forward we had a successful bidding season 
and continue to focus on profitable growth and margin
enhancement. Our strategy is to continue to improve our
product offering and closely manage our cost base in order
to offer a compelling service to our customers, parents 
and students. This year sees the further rollout of new
technology such as GPS and Zonar equipment which
provides us with detailed and accurate information which
will enable us to schedule services and labour more
efficiently as well as provide our customers with real time
information about services.
First Transit
First T ransit had a successful year with US Dollar revenue
increased by 1.7% and operating profit by 15.6%. Our
strategy to improve the margin and implement a significant
cost control and efficiencies programme throughout the
division has delivered good results with margin increased
to 4.9% (2006: 4.3%).
During the year we continued to grow the business with the
award of new business including paratransit contracts in
California and Ohio. We also continued to grow our share
of the outsourced call centre market with a new contract in
Oregon. This is in line with our strategy to further penetrate
the faster growing light transit markets in North America.
We now operate ten call centres in cities such as Chicago,
Denver , Hartford, New Y ork and Portland. 
4.6m
calls handled 
every year
First Transit is the industry
leader in specialised
transportation management
services with more than 
20 paratransit management
contracts nationwide. Our 
call centres handle over 
4.6 million transportation 
calls every year.
First Student carries over 
1 million students to and 
from school every day. From
Alaska to Florida and from
Massachusetts to California the
primary focus and mission of
our drivers and technicians is
to transport students in safety.
The proposed acquisition 
of Laidlaw will create a strong
platform to secure long-term
growth in our North American
business. On completion, the
deal will create North America’s
leading transport services
company operating over 
60,000 yellow school buses. 10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We were also awarded new transit management business
through contracts won in Iowa, Ohio, T exas and Virginia.
We were pleased to win the contract to operate more 
than 170 buses in El Paso, T exas and renew a contract in
Minnesota for an additional five years. The private shuttle
bus market is an area of growth for First T ransit and during
the year we acquired Cognisa. This in-fill acquisition 
further strengthened our presence in the US private shuttle
bus market with 19 customer contracts located across 
seven states. First T ransit is one of the leading providers 
of shuttle bus services with contracts to serve airports in
cities such as Cincinnati, Houston, Miami, Philadelphia,
Portland and Las Vegas. I am pleased with the progress
made at First T ransit this year . This business, which
requires little or no capital expenditure, has improved its
margin and continues to deliver returns. We continue to
grow our expertise in this market and develop potential 
for future profitable growth. 
First Services
This year First Services, which provides a range of
outsourced vehicle maintenance, operations and 
support services in the private and public sectors, 
renewed a significant contract within the large, federal
market. US Dollar revenue was, as anticipated, down 
by 1.9% reflecting the renewal, at a lower margin, of 
a substantial contract to provide land-based support
services to the US Navy. This important contract with
revenues of over $450m over the term was re-awarded 
to First Services for ten years in July. Our strategy is to
achieve organic growth within the existing contract
through the provision of additional add-on services. We
also won new business in the large federal market through
the award of a contract to provide support services to the
Defense Logistics Agency in San Joaquin, California. 
We expanded our fleet maintenance business with new
business wins for the City of Newport, Rhode Island and
Ocean T ownship, New Jersey and with customers such 
as Eastman Chemical, Allegheny Power and Motiva Shell.
Looking ahead our focus is to achieve organic growth
within the large federal contracts and continue to use our
expertise and strong track record of customer service to
grow in these areas.
Proposed acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc.
On 9 February 2007 the Group announced the proposed
acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc., the leading
At First Student our driver
turnover has reduced by 3.5%
this year. Our management has
been working hard to identify
ways to improve driver retention
including an increased emphasis
on communication to ensure
good information flow and
enable employees to raise 
any concerns. 
Thousands of First Student’s
buses utilise the latest, state-
of-the-art safety and security
advances, including GPS 
and Zonar, a hand-held
computerised inspection tool
used by school bus drivers prior
to and following every bus trip.
We continue to invest in the
latest technology to ensure the
safety of the students we carry.
First Student successfully
retained over 95% of its
contracts which came up 
for renewal during the year.
First Student has more than
doubled in size since we
entered the North American
market in 1999 by winning 
new business, organic growth
and in-fill acquisitions.
Our First Vehicle Services
location in Fort Wayne, Indiana
was named most efficient fleet
at the ‘Best Fleets in North
America’ awards. Fort Wayne
operates a 1,400-vehicle fleet
with a 99% average overall
vehicle availability and has
reduced maintenance costs 
by 15% over the last decade.  11 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
operator of school and intercity bus transportation and 
a supplier of public transit services in North America for a
consideration of $3.6 billion. We have received approval
from both FirstGroup and Laidlaw shareholders, and the
acquisition now remains conditional on the receipt of
necessary antitrust approvals in the US and Canada. 
We are working with the relevant antitrust authorities 
to provide the necessary information, including the
Department of Justice to comply with their second 
request process.
This is a transformational deal with considerable 
prospects for value creation. This is a unique opportunity
to establish the leading position in the North American
transportation market and generate significant value and
returns for shareholders. In bringing together FirstGroup
America and Laidlaw we believe we can create a stronger ,
more robust business in a highly fragmented market. 
We aim to leverage value through scale and grow earnings
through improved operating efficiencies and extraction 
of substantial synergies. This acquisition will provide 
a strong platform for us to improve our offering to
customers by bringing further operational and cost
efficiencies, economies of scale and a greater range of
services. Since the announcement we have made good
progress on a number of plans for the integration of 
the businesses.
Laidlaw International, Inc. has some 62,500 employees
and operates three main business segments in the US 
and Canada: 
Laidlaw Education Services which operates approximately
40,000 yellow school buses in 37 states in the US and six
provinces in Canada.
Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled
intercity bus transportation services in the US and Canada.
Greyhound provides scheduled passenger services to
approximately 2,400 destinations throughout the US and
Canada carrying approximately 24 million passengers
annually. We consider Greyhound to be an attractive
business with exciting growth prospects and have
committed to carry out a strategic review of the business.
Laidlaw T ransit Services provides municipal public
transportation services in North America specialising 
in paratransit and fixed route contract services in
approximately 23 states in the US.
UK Bus
The Group is the largest bus operator in the UK with a fleet
of nearly 9,000 buses and a market share of approximately
23%. We carry over 2.9 million passengers every day. 
Results
I am pleased to report another year of strong trading
performance from our UK Bus division. Revenue increased
to £1,073.7m (2006: £1,031.2m) as a result of revenue and
passenger growth initiatives and increased journeys
including concessions and pricing. Operating profit was
£103.0m (2006: £98.4m). This is a particularly notable
achievement as operating profit was adversely impacted
by £28.2m as a result of increased fuel costs. 
This year First Vehicle Services
introduced an online quarterly
customer service survey. Over
90% of our customers are
either ‘satisfied’ or ‘very
satisfied’ with the service 
that is delivered.
First Student has worked 
very hard to progress its safety
culture and safety performance.
This year we achieved
significant reductions in
employee injuries, collisions
and passenger injuries.
First, Sheffield City Council and
South Y orkshire Passenger
Transport Executive signed
‘The Sheffield Bus Agreement’,
a Voluntary Quality Partnership
Agreement that will lead to a
range of significant measures,
including £16.9m of funding,
that will benefit millions of 
First customers in Sheffield
each year. 
First Transit’s acquisition of
Cognisa more than doubled
our shuttle bus business
adding a further 19 customer
contracts located in seven
states across the US. 12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We continue to deliver improvements in operational
performance and efficiency within the business. T argeting
improvements in quality, allied to initiatives to tightly
control our costs, continues to underpin our strategy of
margin enhancement. Depot and route optimisation, a
focus on headway management together with revenue and
passenger growth initiatives, contributed to a turnaround
in profitability and service quality of operations. We are
also implementing a programme to target a consistent
level of fleet cleanliness and appearance. I am pleased to
report that the significant investment in our maintenance
and engineering functions in recent years, and the
implementation of initiatives to improve engineering
efficiency and planning and to standardise our processes,
has continued to reduce our lost mileage this year .
In London we have focused on operational performance
and cost efficiencies and are pleased to report that our
overall punctuality and reliability has improved again this
year . Our operations in the West of London are currently
top of the T ransport for London (TfL) league tables. In
preparation for the western extension of the Congestion
Charge, TfL increased the frequency of a number of our
services to provide additional passenger capacity. 
We welcome the Government’s commitment to buses and
its recognition that buses are a crucial part of our transport
system, set out in ‘Putting Passengers First’. We believe
that the industry has demonstrated that the most effective
way to deliver better services to passengers is through
voluntary partnership agreements. Working in partnership
with local authorities to deliver improved bus services for
passengers continues to deliver encouraging results in our
business. Passenger numbers are increasing throughout
our operations, supported by growing numbers of
concessionary fares passengers benefiting from the
Government’s introduction of a new scheme in April 2006.
We are seeing particularly strong growth in passenger
numbers where, working in partnership with local
authorities, we are delivering measures to improve the
punctuality and reliability of our services. 
We are pleased to report the commitment of local
authorities across the UK to delivering improved bus
services for passengers through partnerships. In
November we signed a ‘Stability and Growth Pact’ with
Glasgow City Council and Strathclyde Partnership for
T ransport. The pact will bring major improvements to
Glasgow’s bus services including an annual Route
Development Plan, a Joint Performance Improvement 
Plan to make significant improvements in punctuality and
reliability and sustained growth in bus passenger numbers
with a commitment for reasonable fares. The pact builds
on the city’s award-winning £30m Streamline Partnership
between First and Glasgow City Council, Strathclyde
Passenger T ransport and the Scottish Executive last year . 
At the start of May 2007 we signed ‘The Sheffield Bus
Agreement’, a Voluntary Quality Partnership (VQP)
Agreement with Sheffield City Council and South Y orkshire
Passenger T ransport Authority. We believe that this
agreement is the most comprehensive VQP ever agreed.
The agreement will give customers a more stable network
and improve the reliability of bus services by delivering
We have been working hard 
to improve connectivity with
many airports across the 
UK and Ireland and have
introduced Y ork Aircoach, 
a new service between Y ork
railway station and Leeds
Bradford International Airport.
We are the first major bus
operator in the UK to publish
our punctuality and reliability
data. This is part of our mission
to meet customers’ travel
needs by providing a quality
service in the local area that 
is sustainable, profitable, and
of which we are proud.
We introduced the ‘UK Bus
Engineering Apprentice Awards’
in recognition of the hard work
and dedication of our engineering
talent from across the UK. This
annual event acknowledges
successful completion of
apprenticeships and recognises
individual achievement.
Our UK Bus division was
named winner in the ‘Skills for
Life’ category at the Business
in the Community 2006
awards. This year 1,100 bus
drivers received vocational
qualifications. 20% of our bus
drivers are now qualified with
more planned for this year. 13 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
significant financial investment and improvements to the
city’s bus infrastructure. Over the next two years we will
invest £10m in new vehicles, extra CCTV cameras on
buses and training programmes for staff. The T ransport
Executive and the City Council have invested £4.4m 
during the year and have agreed to invest £2.5m in the
coming year which will be used to fund infrastructure
improvements.
We are working in partnership with the four Unitary
Authorities in the Greater Bristol area to deliver improved
bus services in the region. The authorities have submitted
final plans to the Department for T ransport for ten
‘Showcase’ routes as part of the Greater Bristol Bus
Network. The network will see a major investment of some
£49m in new infrastructure, including bus lanes, road
widening, improved bus stops, enhanced traffic controls
and Real Time Passenger Information as well as some
£20m in new buses. This demonstrates the strong working
relationship which delivered the first Showcase route in
Bristol, now operating very successfully, and a second
Showcase route due for completion later this year . 
All of our operating companies are working on plans to
improve the punctuality of our bus services on a route-
by-route basis. We are the first of the major operators 
to publish punctuality and reliability data by operating
company and are working with local authorities in all of 
our operating areas to develop Punctuality Improvement
Partnerships (PIPs). We developed our first PIP with
Greater Manchester Passenger T ransport Executive and
now have a number of PIPs in progress to deliver improved
bus services for passengers. We continue to address
issues within our direct control, for example, by introducing
new timetables to improve the punctuality of our services.
The PIP process has highlighted that, in order to achieve
improvements in service performance in some cases,
highway alterations and other infrastructure works are
required. Some of these are already being addressed by
our partners.
In January this year we started our second ftr service in
Leeds. ftr was first launched in Y ork in May last year and
uses state-of-the-art articulated tram-like vehicles. We
have seen passenger growth of 28% on the Y ork ftr service
and continue to be encouraged by positive feedback from
our customers, local authorities from across the UK and
from wider stakeholders. Independent customer research
showed an 87% satisfaction rating amongst passengers
using the ftr service. We continue to develop plans for
further ftr services and our scheme in Swansea will start
next year .
We are pleased with the continued development of
Aircoach, which operates express coaches between
Dublin city centre and the airport and contracted services
for airport car parks. The company continued to perform
well during the year and significant passenger growth at
Dublin Airport has benefited both our scheduled and our
contracted car park services. We are using the Aircoach
model to introduce new services in the UK and recently
launched Y ork Aircoach, a frequent, express, direct coach
service between Y ork rail station and Leeds Bradford
International Airport. 
Three years after the initial
group of 36 Polish bus drivers
were deployed to Bath and
Bristol our European Union
recruitment programme has
delivered over 1,200 staff to
our UK Bus division with a
retention rate of over 90%.
ftr is now in its second year
and a new scheme started 
in Leeds in January. We are
delighted by the reaction of
our customers, our employees
and our stakeholders. A
recent independent customer
survey in York showed a
satisfaction rating of 87%.
We have invested more than
£40m in our bus operations 
in Manchester to support
passenger growth. By working
with local authorities we are
delivering more punctual 
and reliable services for 
our customers. 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We welcome the Government’s announcement
encouraging local initiatives in support of improved 
school transport services. We pioneered the introduction
of American style yellow school buses into the UK and 
one of our first pilot schemes in West Y orkshire was 
the precursor to Metro’s MyBus initiative, which has
successfully reduced congestion at the school gates by
giving parents a high quality alternative to using their cars
for the school run. 
Capital expenditure was focused in areas with potential 
for high passenger growth. T owns and cities including
Aberdeen, Bradford, Bristol, Glasgow, Leeds and
Manchester were among those who benefited from our
£57m spend on new low floor , easy access buses this year .
We were delighted that our commitment to investing in our
people at all levels was recognised at the Business in the
Community Awards 2006. The ‘Rentokil Initial Skills for
Life’ award, supported by the Department for Education
and Skills and in association with Investors in People,
recognised our joint strategy, with the T ransport & General
Workers’ Union, to improve recruitment, retention and
motivation. Our learning and development initiatives,
together with improvements to our recruitment and training
programmes and our European recruitment programme,
has reduced driver turnover to an all time low.
Europe
We continue to invest in European bidding activity. We
have submitted bids for Connexxion in the Netherlands
and also, with our partner DSB, for the Øresund rail
franchise which links Denmark and Sweden. While North
America remains our primary market for growth and
international expansion we continue to explore
opportunities in new markets. We recently made a modest
investment in Germany of 130 buses in the Rhein-Neckar
region. This small entry into Germany enables us to build 
a greater understanding of the market as it continues 
to liberalise. 
Group outlook
All of our businesses have delivered a very strong
performance. Our UK Rail division continues to go from
strength to strength. This year we commenced operation
of two new enlarged franchises. We have made significant
investment across all of our rail businesses to deliver
improvements in rolling stock, capacity and services for
passengers. Demand for our services continues to
accelerate with passenger and income growth across all 
of our rail operations. We are delighted to pre-qualify for 
a further three franchises: East Midlands, New Cross
Country and InterCity East Coast and await the outcome
later this year . I am pleased with the strong trading result
from our UK Bus division despite absorbing additional fuel
costs of £28.2m. We have delivered improved operating
performance and volume growth. Increased passenger
journeys, together with our initiatives to grow revenue 
and bear down on costs, have resulted in a strong
performance. We continue to promote a partnership
approach to delivering a comprehensive and sustainable
bus network in the towns and cities where we operate and
have seen encouraging growth as a result. Our North
American business has enjoyed high contract retention
First and the Transport and
General Workers’ Union
signed the first national
agreement on life long learning
that will encourage and
support a culture of learning
and continued personal
development throughout 
the UK Bus division. 
This year Hull Trains became
the latest of our companies 
to achieve the prestigious
Investors in People standard.
We are committed to
continuously improving our
performance by investing 
in our people.
This year we introduced
biodiesel to all of our UK Bus
operating companies and
started a programme to support
fuel efficiency improvements.
All of our new buses have Euro
IV engines further reducing fuel
consumption and carbon dioxide
and other harmful emissions.
The key to having a trained,
motivated and customer
focused workforce is making
sure we recruit and retain the
right staff. Through improved
recruitment processes and a
comprehensive learning and
development programme
driver turnover in our UK Bus
division is at a record low. 15 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
and margin improvement. We are seeing the positive
impact of our strategy to mitigate fuel cost pressures
through the contract renewal process. The Board is
pleased with the consistent returns generated from this
business since we entered the market in 1999 and remains
confident that North America offers further exciting growth
prospects for the Group.
Our strategy is focused on delivering value for
shareholders from further growth within our core
businesses and exploring opportunities to develop in 
new markets. For the third year running we have increased
the dividend by 10% reflecting the Board’s confidence 
in the Group’s future prospects and ability to continue to
generate strong cash flows. We are committed to this level
of annual dividend growth for the foreseeable future, at
least for the next three years. I am pleased to report that
trading in the new financial year has started well and is in
line with our expectations.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
CSR is at the core of our business. We believe that in order
to deliver sustainable growth CSR must be embedded in
the vision and values of a business. Our aim is to transform
the way people travel and how they feel about public
transport. Our management of key issues such as safety,
environment, our relationships with customers and our
employees is at the heart of our strategy and key to
achieving our vision.
This year we reviewed the content of our Code of Business
Ethics and Group Equal Opportunities Policy as part of 
our ongoing efforts to implement best practice in these
areas. After consultation with independent CSR auditors,
corporate governance professionals and our shareholders
we decided to incorporate all of our existing policies into
one Group CSR Policy. 
Safety is our highest priority. We are continuously
developing and improving our processes to ensure that 
a ‘Safety First’ culture is embedded throughout the 
Group. We strive to ensure that our services are as safe 
as possible for our passengers and our staff. Over the last
year we have worked very hard to improve our safety
culture and performance. We have accomplished
significant improvements including significant reductions
in employee injuries, collisions and passenger injuries. 
FirstGroup won the award 
for ‘Continuing Environmental
Excellence’ at the Network Rail
Environment Awards 2006, 
for innovative environmental
initiatives introduced throughout
the Group over the years, which
demonstrated a proactive
approach in all areas of
environmental management,
including our stations and
supply chain.
We are one of the Major
Supporters of Scotland’s bid
for the 2014 Commonwealth
Games. A First ScotRail train,
specially wrapped in the
Commonwealth Games Bid
livery, will travel the length 
and breadth of Scotland in 
the months leading up to the
final decision on the 2014
Host City.
Our Injury Prevention
Programme is innovative,
unprecedented in our industry
and designed to engage all 
our staff in safety and embed 
a safety culture in all of our
operations. This year lost time
injuries have been reduced 
by 31%. 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We have pioneered and rolled out safety standards over
and above the requirements of the safety regulators. Our
Injury Prevention Programme (IPP), which has been rolled
out throughout the Group, is innovative and designed to
engage all our staff in safety. The aim of IPP is to ensure
that action is taken to report any matters of safety and to
resolve them promptly in order to prevent any harm from
occurring to anyone. Lost time injuries across the Group
have reduced by 31% this year . However , we are never
complacent and strive to ensure that we continuously
improve our performance in this critical area.
Our people are often the first point of contact between 
our customers and our business and are central to our
success. Their commitment, dedication and effort are
crucial if we are to meet our customers’ expectations 
and ensure that we are the leader in safe, innovative,
reliable, sustainable transport services. We want to be 
the employer of choice in our industry, offering our staff
opportunities to develop and grow to reach their full
potential. We continue to invest in the training and
development of our employees across the Group. We have
ongoing programmes for employees working towards
recognised training in the form of vocational qualifications.
In UK Bus our successful partnership with the T ransport
and General Workers’ Union to expand our workplace
learning provision continues and we are sponsoring the
Business in the Community ‘Skills for Life’ award this year 
to encourage other employers to follow our lead. In North
America all of our technicians can now participate in the
Automotive Service Excellence Programme designed to
train and test technicians. First Student continues to
promote the ‘Smith System of Defensive Driving’ to further
improve our safety performance and to further reduce the
possibility of incidents likely to lead to passenger or
employee injuries or collisions. 
We continue to receive recognition for improving our
environmental performance. At the Green Apple Awards
we were presented with a gold award in the T ransport,
Freight and Highways category. We also received the
‘Continuing Environmental Excellence Award’ at the
Network Rail Environment Awards 2006 and were runners
up in the National Business Awards for Scotland 2006 in
the ‘Scottish Power Environmental Awareness Awards’. We
are pleased that our commitment to integrating corporate
social responsibility into our business and to managing,
measuring and reporting our key social and environmental
impacts resulted in an improved score in the Business in
the Community Corporate Responsibility Index 2006. 
We also participate in the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index. 
Our CSR Policy, together with our Corporate Social
Responsibility Report, which gives further details of our
activities and progress during the year , can be found at
www.firstgroup.com
Moir Lockhead
Chief Executive
As the UK’s leading public
transport operator we have 
a unique opportunity to
improve the environment 
by helping to reduce traffic
congestion, carbon dioxide
emissions and air pollution. 
We are working hard to 
reduce the environmental
impacts of our operations.
FirstGroup was presented 
with the gold award for our
environmental submission 
in the Transport, Freight and
Highways category at the
2006 Green Apple Awards.
This year , as part of our ongoing
efforts to implement best
practice in these areas, we
produced an updated Group
CSR Policy. After consultation
with independent CSR
auditors, corporate governance
professionals and shareholder
groups we included among
other things, specific reference
to Freedom of Association
through a secret ballot which
employees tell us is important
to them.
