 2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s statement
The Board’s commitment to increase
dividends by 10% for a further three
years reflects our confidence in the
Group’s strong cash generation and
prospects for further growth. 
I am delighted to report a very successful year for the
Group delivering on our clear strategy to profitably grow in
our core markets and create further value for shareholders.
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality and reliable
services throughout our business. The safety of our
passengers and employees is our highest priority and we
strive to lead the industry in this area and achieve the
highest possible standards across the Group. 
This has been a year of excellent progress across our
business. We achieved a record set of results with revenue
increased to £3,708.8m (2006: £3,030.9m) and adjusted
profit before tax (before intangible asset amortisation, 
non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and loss
on disposal of fixed assets) increased to £195.8m (2006:
£176.4m). Profit before tax was £140.2m (2006: £157.4m)
reflecting higher one-off costs primarily as a result of 
non-recurring rail franchise mobilisation costs and lower
property results. I am very pleased that the Group has
delivered this strong performance despite the additional
fuel cost increase during the year which impacted Group
operating profit by £37.1m. EBITDA (Group operating
profit* plus depreciation) increased to a record £398.9m
(2006: £351.7m) and cash generation has been excellent.
Adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 9.1% to
33.7p (2006: 30.9p). The Board has proposed a final
dividend, subject to approval by shareholders, of 10.5p
making a full year payment of 15.5p, an increase of 10%.
The dividend is covered 2.2 times, before intangible asset
amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring
items and loss on disposal of fixed assets. It will be paid on
24 August 2007 to shareholders on the register on 20 July
2007. The Board’s commitment to increase dividends by
10% for the foreseeable future, at least for a further three
years, reflects our confidence in the Group’s strong cash
generation and prospects for further growth. 
On 9 February 2007 we were delighted to announce the
proposed acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. the
leading provider of school and intercity bus transportation
and a supplier of public transit services in North America.
Following the approval for this transaction from both our
shareholders and Laidlaw stockholders on 20 April 2007
we now only await the necessary antitrust regulatory
approvals in the US and Canada for completion. We
believe this transformational acquisition will significantly
enhance shareholder value and underpins future growth.
The integration of Laidlaw with FirstGroup gives us a
unique opportunity to become the leading operator in the
large, fragmented North American transport market and
leverage value through scale. We have an excellent track
record of successfully acquiring and integrating businesses
and we are excited by the opportunities this acquisition 
will bring to increase the service offering to customers. 
We recognise that our staff are our greatest asset. On
behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank all of our staff for their continued hard work and
commitment in delivering another excellent year for the
Group. I would also like to welcome new employees who
have joined our businesses in the UK and North America
during the period. 
I am very pleased with the progress achieved by the Group
this year building on our position as a leading transport
provider . We are delivering on our clear strategy to create
shareholder value by sustainable growth in our core
businesses and exploring opportunities to develop in new
markets. We have made a significant investment in our
business to ensure that we offer the highest level of service
to our customers and we remain committed to increasing
the dividend by 10% per annum for the foreseeable future.
This is an exciting time for the Group as we consolidate our
position in the highly attractive North American market and
continue to deliver improved operating performance and
revenue growth in our UK businesses. The Board is
optimistic about the opportunities for the business and
looks forward to the future with confidence.
Martin Gilbert
Chairman
*Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit
before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring
items and (loss)/profit on disposal of fixed assets.
