 04 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Tim O’Toole 
Chief Executive
Our services help to create strong, vibrant 
and sustainable local economies and our 
opportunity is to be the provider of choice 
for our customers and communities. 
We are the largest transport operator in the UK and North America 
and each day, every one of our 120,000 employees works hard to 
deliver vitally important services for our passengers. During the last 
year more than 2.5 billion passengers relied on us to get to work,  
to education, to visit family and friends and for much more. 
In May of this year, Martin Gilbert announced his intention to stand 
down as Chairman, once a successor has been identified. On behalf 
of the Board and our employees, I would like to pay tribute to Martin 
and thank him for his outstanding contribution to the Company.  
As Chairman and a founder, his vision and drive have led the 
transformation of the Group, and under his stewardship the business 
has grown to become one of the world’s leading transport operators.
Our opportunity
Our objective is to provide sustainable, integrated transport services 
that are safe, reliable and meet the needs of the customers and the 
communities we serve. We have established a diverse portfolio of 
assets in a sector which is a key enabler of economic growth. Effective 
transport links are essential to the prosperity of any economy, and 
whilst the needs of any one local or regional community may be 
different, as we look ahead, the unrelenting move towards urbanisation 
means that we can be certain that congestion will be a feature of the 
future. It is companies like ours with the necessary breadth and scale, 
and collective expertise and capability spanning two continents, that 
will be able to provide efficient solutions to congestion. 
Capital structure
In May 2013 we announced a rights issue to raise approximately  
£615m, which will remove the constraints of our current balance sheet 
and provide the necessary flexibility to continue our transformation plans 
and invest to create sustainable, long term value. 
The decisions we have taken this year will position the Group to deliver 
improved growth, and return us to a profile of consistent financial 
returns and cash generation. Over the next four years we aim to 
increase Group revenue (excluding UK Rail) at a faster rate than the 
economies we serve, improve margins in First Student and UK Bus
1
  
to double digit levels, and achieve a post-tax return on capital 
employed (ROCE) in the 10% to 12% range. We aim to maintain  
an investment grade credit rating and appropriate balance sheet 
liquidity and headroom and, as the business performance improves, 
to re-establish a progressive dividend policy to target 2.0 to 2.5 times 
dividend cover.
Future outlook
The actions we are taking will create a more robust company and one 
that is better placed to face its challenges, deliver on its promises and 
take advantage of future opportunities. As a result I believe that we are 
in a stronger position now with greater clarity and confidence in our 
way forward.
1
 On a post-IAS 19 basis. The estimated impact of IAS 19 is set out on page 39.
Committed to our customers  
We keep our customers at the 
heart of everything we do.
Dedicated to safety  
Always front of mind, safety is our 
way of life.
Supportive of each other  
We trust each other to deliver and 
work to help one another succeed.
Accountable for performance  
Every decision matters, we do the 
right thing to achieve our goals.
Setting the highest standards  
We want to be the best, 
continually seeking a better way 
to do things.
Our vision is to provide solutions for  
an increasingly congested world...  
keeping people moving and  
communities prospering.
Our vision and values Overview
05 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Actions taken this year Future priorities
This year has been a significant one for the  
Group as we moved ahead with our plans for our 
future development. Our business improvement 
programmes are at different stages across each 
of our divisions, but over this year we have 
prioritised the following areas: 
While we are pleased with progress in the year, 
significant opportunities remain ahead of us. Over 
the next four years, we intend to invest approximately 
£1 .6bn across the Group to continue our transformation 
programmes and take advantage of growth 
opportunities. The key priorities in delivering our 
plans and generating long term, sustainable value 
for shareholders and our other stakeholders include:
 
First Student 
We are reforming the operating model to create a more efficient 
cost structure through improving labour productivity, streamlining 
systems to reduce bureaucracy, standardising operating 
procedures and applying best practice. We are expanding  
the use of innovative technology, reducing maintenance costs  
through uniform practices and reducing fuel costs through 
enhanced driver training.
To continue to execute the ongoing recovery plan by improving 
operational efficiency with a view to targeting double digit operating 
margins in the medium term, including by ultimately driving up  
our contract retention rates above 90%, taking advantage of 
opportunities to win new contracts as state authorities and school 
boards continue to outsource their student bus services, and 
returning to a selective in-fill acquisition strategy to enhance growth,  
at the appropriate levels and time.
 
First Transit 
We have strengthened our core business units in First Transit, 
and disposed of non-core operations during the year. We are 
seeing a steady pipeline of new contract wins including additional 
paratransit services and, going forward, we plan to increase our 
focus on higher growth operations such as our shuttle bus 
business. We are also placing more emphasis on technological 
innovation in the division.
To continue to achieve strong growth and maintain operating 
margins while investing to take advantage of key outsourcing 
opportunities, including the expansion of our shuttle bus 
operations, particularly on university campuses and in the 
Canadian oil fields.
 
Greyhound 
We have significantly transformed Greyhound’s operating model 
to create a more flexible and agile business, including through 
improvements in technology, right sizing and relocating terminals, 
purchasing new vehicles and refurbishing our existing fleet. We are 
expanding our Greyhound Express services, building on the 
inherent strength of our unique national network, as well as 
developing bespoke brands for niche markets.
We will invest in infrastructure and IT, including new reservation 
and ticketing systems, to drive operational efficiencies, facilitate 
better yield management and thereby seek to achieve growth in 
excess of GDP , as we have achieved in BoltBus and Greyhound 
Express. Further capital expenditure will also be made to renew 
and refurbish the Greyhound fleet and to continue to fund the 
addition of new routes and services.
 
UK Bus 
During the year we rebalanced our UK Bus portfolio through a 
programme of selected business and asset disposals. We are 
improving efficiency by standardising our maintenance and operating 
procedures, investing in our bus fleet and adjusting the commercial 
model to be more responsive locally and to enhance patronage growth.
To improve operating margins, on a post-IAS 19, basis to 
double digit levels in the medium term by continuing our depot 
transformation programme, network redesign plans, reducing the 
fleet age to be closer in line with our peers, as well as improving 
our information provision and smart ticketing capabilities to 
support volume growth.
 
UK Rail 
We continue to focus on operating performance across all of our  
UK Rail operations, including prioritising the introduction of new smart 
ticketing and passenger information technology. We are working 
closely with our partners to deliver infrastructure and capacity 
upgrades. Contract extensions are being negotiated for two of our 
franchises, and we remain committed to maintaining our leading 
position in the rail market as the DfT’s franchising process restarts. 
Ensuring our management expertise and capital strength 
continues to support our plans to participate in a range of future 
franchise competitions and tenders and maintain our market 
leading position.
