 02 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
As we continue to manage 
in a climate of uncertainty, 
we have taken significant 
steps this year to 
enhance our flexibility 
and strengthen the 
Group for the future.
In a sector that is a key enabler of 
economic development, the Group’s 
diverse portfolio offers an attractive 
platform for sustainable growth. During 
the year we continued to take action to 
mitigate the effects of prolonged economic 
weakness and to place the business on a 
firmer footing to continue to invest for the 
future and deliver improved growth  
and returns. 
The Group has grown rapidly over the last 20 years through a 
combination of acquisition, organic growth and contract wins, and we 
have established a broad-based portfolio of market leading transport 
businesses in the UK and North America with unrivalled scale and 
breadth. We believe that our stakeholders benefit from the diversity  
of the Group which underpins the wealth of expertise and unique 
knowledge that we have of many different markets, networks, 
contracts and assets. 
The diversity of our portfolio also means that each of our  
businesses responds differently to changes in the economic  
cycle. As the problems of congestion from urban growth continue  
to multiply, the need for more efficient transport solutions is 
recognised as being ever more critical. 
The external headwinds we have faced this year have been 
considerable. The sustained economic weakness across the  
UK and North America continued to affect our passenger revenue 
businesses, and the impact of reduced Government support for 
the bus industry in the UK during the year has been marked. It has 
also been an exceptionally challenging period for the UK rail industry 
and for our rail business in particular, following the unexpected 
cancellation of the InterCity West Coast franchise competition. 
Notwithstanding the public statements from the Department for 
Transport (DfT) that we were not at fault, having followed due 
process and submitted a strong bid in strict accordance with their 
terms, we were frustrated that our employees and our shareholders 
had to endure this extraordinary series of events. In March, following 
the completion of two independent reviews, the DfT issued a detailed 
timetable for rail franchise awards over the next eight years. As the 
UK’s largest and most experienced rail operator, we remain 
committed to maintaining a leading position in the market, and look 
forward to submitting further high quality bids that create value for 
passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
Martin Gilbert 
Chairman Overview
03 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013
As we continue to manage in a climate of uncertainty, we have taken 
significant steps this year to enhance our flexibility and strengthen the 
Group for the future. Across the business there is a resolute drive to 
harness our scale by developing and sharing our global expertise for 
the benefit of our local markets. Led by Tim O’Toole, the management 
team remain focused on detailed plans to strengthen the business to 
address the challenges we are facing today, and to achieve sustainable 
growth for the future.
During the year we took steps to further strengthen the Board through 
a number of new appointments.
On 1 August 2012 we were pleased to welcome Brian Wallace  
and Jim Winestock to the Board as Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Brian has held executive board positions within a number  
of FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 organisations, most recently as Group 
Finance Director of Ladbrokes plc. Prior to joining Ladbrokes he was 
Group Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive of Hilton Group. 
Jim Winestock served in a number of senior roles and was a member 
of the Management Committee during his career at United Parcel 
Service, Inc. Most recently he was Senior Vice President and Director 
of US Operations and Global Security with responsibility for all US 
operations and 360,000 employees. 
Chris Surch was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director 
on 1 September 2012. Chris joined from Shanks Group plc where he 
was Group Finance Director. Prior to that, he held a number of senior 
financial roles including at Smiths Group plc and TI Group plc. 
Together with strong financial leadership, he brings considerable 
operational, strategic and international knowledge and experience  
of significant business improvement programmes. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to extend our sincere thanks and 
gratitude to our 120,000 employees. They are the backbone of our 
organisation and our greatest strength. The engagement, support, 
and development of all our people is an important focus for 
management and vital to delivering our plans for the future.
The Group remains a strong and profitable business with market 
leading positions. During the year we continued to take action to 
mitigate the effects of the prolonged economic downturn and to place 
the business on a firmer footing to continue to invest for the future. 
Having comprehensively reviewed other options, the Board is 
confident that the rights issue announced in May is the best  
solution for the Group, to remove the risk of a credit rating 
downgrade, remove the constraints of the balance sheet and  
give management the resources necessary to deliver their value-
enhancing strategy for the Group.
We are targeting an appropriate, progressive and sustainable 
dividend policy with cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times in the medium term. In 
the short term the Board proposes that no final dividend will be paid 
in respect of the year to 31 March 2013, nor an interim dividend for 
the year to 31 March 2014. Payments will recommence with a final 
dividend for the year to 31 March 2014, subject to performance in 
line with expectations, as a transition to re-establishing a progressive 
dividend policy thereafter. While the exact quantum will be determined 
at that time, the Board’s intent is to pay a transitional final dividend 
of up to £50m for the year to 31 March 2014.
The rights issue will not only strengthen the Group and support its 
continued growth, but also underpin its ability to remain a dividend 
paying stock as well as supporting an investment grade credit rating. 
When this project is complete, I intend to step down as Chairman 
once a successor has been identified. I have led the business for  
27 years, from start-up to its current position as the leading transport 
operator in the UK and North America and I am extremely proud of 
what we have achieved during that time. While I am sorry to leave,  
I am pleased that this fund raising will open the way to the next  
stage of the Group’s development.
Martin Gilbert
Chairman
20 May 2013
Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit 
before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives, exceptional 
items, (loss)/profit on disposal of properties and discontinued operations. EBITDA 
is underlying operating profit less capital grant amortisation plus depreciation. 
