 6
FirstGroup  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Tim O’Toole
Chief Executive
Our services help create strong, vibrant  
and sustainable local economies and our 
opportunity is to be the provider of choice  
for our customers and communities. 
We have a unique competitive advantage as a result of our scale and 
the diversity of our portfolio of market leading transport businesses:  
we design and operate more networks, we hire and train more 
employees, we procure, maintain and deploy more vehicles, and we 
work with more local communities than any other operator. Our vision  
is to provide solutions for an increasingly congested world, keeping  
people moving and communities prospering.
Our strategy
Our overall strategy is designed to leverage our scale by developing 
and sharing our global expertise for the benefit of our local markets.  
In recent years, although we have excelled in particular ways and at 
different times, we have not delivered the overall financial performance 
that would reflect our leading market positions. As a consequence, we 
are repositioning the Group for improved growth and to restore us to a 
profile of consistent financial returns. Last year, we strengthened the 
balance sheet to give us the flexibility to invest in our transformation 
programme and set out detailed medium term financial targets. Our 
strategic objectives under the transformation programme are: focused 
and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses, driving growth 
through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue 
businesses, continuous improvement in operating and financial 
performance, prudent investment in our key assets (fleets, systems and 
people), and responsible partnerships with our customers and 
communities who rely on us and on whom, in turn, we depend. 
We are confident that successful execution of our strategy will deliver 
our key medium term financial targets, which are to increase Group 
revenue (excluding UK Rail) at a faster rate than the economies we 
serve, improve margins in First Student and UK Bus to double digit 
levels and in Greyhound to 12%, and to achieve a post-tax return on 
capital employed (ROCE) in the 10 to 12% range for the Group as a 
whole. As importantly, our plans will create a more robust company 
and one that is better placed to deliver on its potential.
In this strategic report we set out our business model, strategy and 
objectives in detail and review how we performed operationally and 
financially in the year against our plans. We explain how we measure our 
progress against a range of financial and non-financial indicators, and 
review the principal risks and uncertainties that we face, together with the 
approach we take to managing them. Effective transport links play a vital 
role in the prosperity of any economy, and responsible partnerships with 
our customers and communities are therefore one of our strategic 
objectives. Our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available 
on our website, expands on the summary to be found in this report.
Year in review
The year to 31 March 2014 has been one of repositioning and investing 
in the Group to drive greater value from our market leading portfolio of 
businesses, focusing on our people, our divisional performance and 
priorities and our financial position. 
Our vision and values
Our vision is to provide solutions for 
an increasingly congested world... 
keeping people moving and 
communities prospering.
Committed to our customers  
We keep our customers at the heart  
of everything we do.
Dedicated to safety  
Always front of mind, safety is our  
way of life.
Supportive of each other  
We trust each other to deliver and  
work to help one another succeed.
Accountable for performance  
Every decision matters, we do the  
right thing to achieve our goals.
Setting the highest standards  
We want to be the best, continually 
seeking a better way to do things. 7
FirstGroup  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report
 Chief Executive’s strategic review
UK Bus has achieved overall passenger volume growth for the first 
time in several years, as a result of the network transformations, fare 
reviews and significant investments in fleet and service during the year. 
Going forward, we will continue to improve our commercial proposition 
to drive passenger volume growth and revenues, while continuing to 
strengthen operational discipline as we make progress with our 
step-by-step plan to raise margins to double digits. 
During the year, UK Rail delivered continued revenue growth 
underpinned by robust passenger volume growth. Our train operating 
companies worked closely with our industry partners to deliver both 
planned infrastructure and fleet upgrades, and remedial work to restore 
services on parts of the network damaged by flooding. First Great 
Western and First Capital Connect extended their roles through direct 
awards from the Department for Transport (DfT) in the year. UK Rail is 
currently shortlisted for a number of new competitions. Going forward, 
UK Rail will participate in a range of franchise competitions to achieve 
profit on a par with the last round of franchising, with an acceptable  
level of risk.
Our financial position
In June 2013, we received the net £584m proceeds of the rights issue 
which strengthened our balance sheet and provided the necessary 
flexibility to continue our transformation programme and invest to create 
sustainable value.
In May 2014, we signed a five year, £800m revolving credit facility with 
our relationship banks. In addition to achieving better pricing and 
increased flexibility in certain areas, the new facility gives us strong 
liquidity and a stable financing platform to drive forward our 
transformation programme, with our next debt maturity in October 2016. 
Group outlook 
The Group is broadly on track to achieve our medium term targets and, 
while we are encouraged by progress so far, there remains a significant 
amount of work ahead. We are confident that we have the right plans 
underway to build on our market leading positions, strengthen the 
resilience of the Group, and return to a profile of sustainable cash 
generation and value creation for the long term.
Tim O’Toole
Chief Executive  
21 May 2014
Our people 
In December 2013 we were delighted to announce the appointment of 
John McFarlane as Chairman. The Group is already benefiting from his 
extensive international experience and track record of managing 
strategic change and value creation. The experience, skills and 
perspectives of our new Non-Executive Directors Warwick Brady, 
Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh will also be invaluable to the Group 
as we drive forward our plans. 
In January 2014 Dennis Maple joined the Group as President of First 
Student. The wealth of experience that Dennis brings will be important 
as we build on the cost savings actions already taken and accelerate 
our contract repositioning programme to deliver double digit margins in 
the medium term. During the year, UK Bus restructured its senior 
leadership team to ensure that the necessary commercial and 
operational expertise is focused on our local operations and to bring in 
new talent (over 30% of the management within the division has been 
changed in the last two years). In the year, we have also launched 
important Group-wide employee professional development, 
engagement and diversity initiatives, which will strengthen our ability to 
deliver our transformation programme. 
Divisional performance and priorities 
In the year, we made satisfactory progress with our key divisional 
priorities, with good performances in four of our divisions partially offset 
by slower progress in First Student. We also have clear plans in place 
for each of the divisions to contribute to the Group’s overall progress 
towards its medium term targets: 
First Student made progress in its recovery plan, achieving the 
$100m per annum in cost savings as planned. However, current cost 
inflation that marginally exceeds the pricing adjustments provided for in 
our multi-year contracts, together with an unprecedented amount of 
school closures due to the severity of the North American winter 
season, meant that our rate of progress toward our medium term 
objective of double digit margins was slower than we had targeted. 
Going forward, First Student is accelerating its programme to address 
contract portfolio pricing and focus capital on higher returning 
opportunities, and is targeting a further $50m per annum of identified 
cost efficiencies. 
First Transit delivered another year of strong growth and good 
margins, with continued bid success across all segments. Going 
forward, First Transit will continue to invest in its market leading people 
and solutions to deliver further growth with attractive returns.
Although its reported results were negatively affected by the severe 
weather which caused significant disruption to the network this winter, 
the underlying performance in Greyhound indicates signs of a 
modestly improving market for our traditional coach services. Our 
Greyhound Express and BoltBus point-to-point brands continued to 
achieve strong profitable growth, benefiting from the unique feed from 
our national network. Going forward, the modernisation of Greyhound’s 
IT infrastructure and web presence will deliver improved ticketing, 
real-time pricing and yield management, and this, together with the 
continued profitable growth of our point-to-point brands, will deliver  
our medium term margin target of 12% for the division. 
