 2
FirstGroup  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 Chairman’ s statement
I am pleased to have joined FirstGroup as 
Chairman, at a key stage of its evolution. This is 
an important company, operating in five major 
divisions, providing services to millions of 
customers in the UK and North America, is 
one of the largest corporate employers, and a 
major contributor to the communities in which 
we operate.
Since taking on the role at the beginning of the year, I have reviewed the 
business plans and actively engaged on major decisions and forward 
plans with the senior team. Essentially, I have found the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Company to be broadly in keeping with my 
initial expectations. I have also met all of our major shareholders. It is fair 
to say that they are very supportive of the Group, but are disappointed 
we have not matched this support with appropriate returns. Turning this 
situation around is therefore the first priority of the Board.
I am encouraged that the Group has an attractive portfolio of transport 
businesses – each a leader in its market, and each with good growth 
and returns prospects, particularly as the economies recover from the 
global financial crisis. With the correct decisions and actions, we should 
be able to turn this into acceptable returns for shareholders in the form 
of appropriate dividends and capital growth that has eluded us 
more recently.
First Transit, Greyhound and UK Rail are delivering returns broadly  
in line with what I would expect, though clearly we have significant 
opportunity for further improvement. 
On the other hand, two of our businesses, First Student and UK Bus, 
have not performed, and are well short of their potential and delivering 
lower margins than their competitors. Although both divisions have 
faced challenging economic conditions in their respective markets, we 
cannot escape that we should have managed them better. Progress 
has been made in addressing the performance of these two divisions, 
with headway being made in UK Bus in particular, but there remains 
much to do still. Fixing these and delivering the business plans we 
announced recently is the Group’s key priority.
Also, as a result of past acquisitions, and notwithstanding the rights 
issue last year, Group leverage remains higher than its optimal long 
term level despite the good strides made to reduce it over the past 
five years, and the interest burden continues to weigh on the income 
statement. It will take some years of good operating cash flow to bring 
this down to a more prudent level, but we will consider ways to 
accelerate this. At the same time, some of the businesses have,  
in the past, suffered from a lack of appropriate capital investment  
and this has been boosted significantly in our business plans. 
The task of extracting greater 
value from First Student and 
UK Bus is fundamental. Turning 
around performance in both of 
these divisions would generate 
additional cash flow to enable 
us to reduce leverage and 
increase shareholder returns.
John McFarlane
Chairman 3
FirstGroup  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report
 Chairman’ s statement
Taking together the current stage of the First Student and UK Bus 
recovery programmes and our commitment to the capital investment 
programme, it will take some time before the Group is able to  
deliver a profile of consistent surplus cash that can be distributed to 
shareholders. As a result, the Board has decided that we should refrain 
from reinstating a dividend at this point. Having consulted with our 
major shareholders I am confident they will support this decision.  
We will keep shareholders advised of progress in this respect.
The task of extracting greater value from First Student and UK Bus is 
fundamental. Turning around performance in both of these divisions, as 
well as delivering profitability and returns at least in line with our peers, 
would generate additional cash flow to enable us to reduce leverage 
and increase shareholder returns. Central to this is the need to make 
disciplined decisions on pricing, productivity and capital allocation.  
I am confident these issues are resolvable over time and my own 
experience in corporate recovery situations should assist in this. 
Turning to performance for the year, while below our ultimate potential, 
the Group has performed broadly in line with expectations, once 
account is taken for the extraordinary weather particularly in North 
America. Excluding businesses sold this and last year, Group revenues 
have increased modestly, but more importantly from a strategic 
perspective, adjusted operating profit increased by 5.5%, adjusted 
profit before tax is 23. 1% greater, and adjusted profit attributable to 
ordinary shareholders has increased by 21.8%. Adjusted EPS has fallen 
by 31.8%, principally due to the increased number of shares following 
the rights issue. Capital investment increased as planned, and adjusting 
for the proceeds of the rights issue, Group cash flow was in line  
with guidance.
The Board was particularly encouraged by the performance of First 
Transit, Greyhound, UK Bus and UK Rail this year. UK Bus, while still 
working through its transformation programme, is beginning to show 
that it is on the right track. First Student’s slower progress however, 
which was heavily affected by the unusual winter weather, 
was disappointing. 
A strong, experienced and diverse Board with the right mix of skills 
and experience will be essential to the successful execution of the 
transformation programme, by providing strategic oversight to 
management as well as rigorous and robust challenge. 
It is a natural process after periods of long service for Directors to retire 
and for the Board to be refreshed. Accordingly, we have announced 
that John Sievwright, David Begg, and Colin Hood will retire from the 
Board, and Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh will join 
the Board as Non-Executive Directors, with effect from 24 June 2014.  
I am pleased to welcome Warwick, Drummond and Imelda to the 
Board and I am delighted that such distinguished directors have  
placed their faith in us. Their backgrounds and experience are set  
out on page 52. I would like to thank John, David and Colin for their 
dedication and contribution to the Company, and particularly for their 
support to me as incoming Chairman. 
On behalf of the Board I would also like to pay tribute to my 
predecessor Martin Gilbert who stepped down from the Board on 
31 December 2013 and, having been involved with the Group since its 
formation, was instrumental in establishing its position as the leading 
transport operator in the UK and North America. 
I have been impressed by the commitment and dedication of our 
people who remain focused on the task of delivering high-quality 
services to our customers. The Board is grateful for the continued 
efforts and dedication of our 1 17 ,000 employees, particularly during 
what has been a challenging period for the Group. 
As I have spent time reviewing and challenging the strategy of the 
Group, my early impression is that this is the right one for current 
conditions. We will however continue to review other options that are 
financially compelling, as I work with management and the Board over 
the coming months. Clearly it is disappointing that we have not been 
in a position to declare a dividend for the year, but we ask for 
shareholders’ patience while we return the Group to a dividend 
paying position.
Looking forward, although it is early days for me as your Chairman,  
I believe we have correctly assessed the situation, are putting the right 
programmes in place, and are taking the appropriate action to improve 
profitability, cash generation and to strengthen the balance sheet. 
With a resolute focus on bringing these issues to a successful 
conclusion, I sincerely look forward to playing a pivotal role in the next 
stage of the Group’s evolution.
John McFarlane
Chairman  
21 May 2014
Note: Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating  
profit before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives and 
exceptional items. EBITDA is adjusted operating profit less capital grant 
amortisation plus depreciation.
