 Chairman’ s statement
The economic environment in the US and
Europe, concerns about the spread of
terrorism and the uncertainty in the period
leading up to and during the Iraq war
affected business and consumer confidence
and combined to make this year a very
difficult one for FKI.
Last year, we reported that we expected 
a downturn in the first half but that we
anticipated an improvement in the Group’s
performance in the second half, based on
some recovery in demand together with the
benefits of various steps we had taken to
reduce costs. While the cost improvements
were realised, for reasons outlined above 
we suffered further reductions in demand
which continued through the second half.
Customers reduced their general levels of
spending and a significant number of large
capital projects were delayed or cancelled.
This particularly applied in the energy
generation market.
In these tough markets, turnover and 
profits declined. More detail is given in the
operating and financial reviews in this
Annual report, which show that operating
profits have reduced to around half the level
of two years ago. Consequently, in the
trading update on 1 April 2003, the Board
announced that it anticipated recommending
a final dividend reduced from last year’s
level. The dividend will be rebased to reflect
current levels of profitability and debt.
Maintenance of the previous level of
dividend would have significantly reduced
the Group’s headroom under its borrowing
covenants. Accordingly, in addition to the
interim dividend for the year ended 
31 March 2003 of 4.2p paid on 28 February
2003, it is proposed to pay a final dividend 
of 0.3p per share on 31 October 2003 
to shareholders on the register at 
3 October 2003. This proposed final
dividend brings the total dividends for the
year to 4.5p (2002: 10.0p) per share.
Having rebased the dividend, the Board
intends to adopt a progressive policy in
future within a guideline of dividends being
covered a minimum of two times. In future
years, dividends will be split between interim
and final more in line with market practice.
The results that we have achieved and the fact that we
have retained our market positions in a very competitive
environment are due to the commitment of all the
Group’ s employees and I would like to thank them for
their efforts throughout a difficult year .
02 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Regrettably, economic conditions have
necessitated a number of actions to reduce
costs which have affected many of our
employees. The results that we have
achieved and the fact that we have retained
our market positions in a very competitive
environment are due to the commitment 
of all the Group’s employees and I would
like to thank them for their efforts
throughout this difficult year.
Bob Beeston, who joined FKI as 
Chief Executive in January 1992, retired 
in February 2003. During his time as 
Chief Executive he pursued a balance
between growth companies and high
margin cash generative companies. 
As a result of these policies, FKI has been
well placed to cope with the downturns 
of the last two years. I would like to place
on record my thanks to him for all that 
he did for FKI and we all wish him a 
happy retirement.
In his place we welcome Paul Heiden who
was appointed Chief Executive in January
2003 and who joined us from Rolls-Royce.
Paul’s first task has been to familiarise
himself with the Group’s businesses and 
to take further action in the face of weak
demand. He is in the process of reviewing
the Group’s strategy, a task which we
expect to be completed towards the end 
of this calendar year.
Much attention has been given recently in
the business community to the question 
of the importance of good corporate
governance. These matters are regularly
reviewed by the Board and in the Directors’
report there is a statement on the procedures
for internal controls, audit and evaluation of
potential business risks. You will see that 
we have nine directors, five of whom are
non-executives. I chair the Nominations
committee, and the Remuneration and 
Audit committees are separately led by
other non-executive directors. I am pleased
to be able to say that the non-executive and
the executive directors work effectively
together as a team.
Finally, the actions we have taken during the
last two difficult years to cut costs will not
impair the Group’s ability to respond 
to improvements in demand when the
economic environment improves and we
remain confident about the long-term
prospects of the Group.
Keith Orrell-Jones
Chairman
03 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Chairman’s statement
