 Chief Executive’ s review
As the new Chief Executive I have joined 
the Group at an extremely challenging time
as a consequence of a combination 
of factors:
• demand in most of the Group’s major
markets is depressed, significantly
impacting operating performance;
• acquisitions to build a world leading
materials handling business have put
pressure on the balance sheet; and
• declining operating and share price
performance have led to questions over
Group strategy.
Results
The results for the year reflect difficult
market conditions resulting in weak demand
for the Group’s products and services,
offset by significant managerial actions to
reduce costs, improve efficiencies and exit
poorly performing operations. 
Turnover decreased by 9.8% to 
£1,452.6 million generating an operating
profit of £110.4 million. After net interest
payable of £31.2 million, the profit before
tax was £79.2 million and after tax, the
adjusted earnings per share amounted to
10.3p. These figures are reported before
reorganisation costs in acquired businesses,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Although the Group’s profitability reduced
significantly compared with last year, 
there was excellent operating cash flow
amounting to £166.6 million, representing
151% of the operating profit. 
As a result of this and other actions 
taken, the Group’s net debt reduced to
£498.4 million at 31 March 2003.
Over a number of years the Group has
earned a reputation for tight financial
controls, clear and detailed operating 
focus and speed of decision making and
action. These strengths underpinned
performance last year and will continue 
to be core to the Group’s operations. 
They will be reinforced by increasing
attention to working capital management
and sharing of best practice across Group
companies. This concentration will
maximise profitability and cash flow.
Gearing
Despite the difficult markets, the Group
continues to generate free cash flow which,
together with the reduced level of 
dividend, should enable further significant
debt reduction. 
Strategy
In the short term the focus is on cash
generation, debt reduction and an
improvement in interest cover. I am
presently leading a detailed review of the
Group’s businesses, their strategies and
future plans, which is expected to be
completed by the end of the calendar year.
The principal criteria that are being used to
judge the potential of each business are
their sustainable return on invested capital
(ROIC) relative to the weighted average 
cost of capital and their expected growth 
in ROIC.
04 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Outlook
It is too early to tell how markets will develop
during the next year. The Group has a
robust core of excellent businesses with
strong market positions and opportunities
for development. These businesses have
maintained their competitive positions
during the current economic downturn 
and have been sized for current levels of
demand but remain capable of responding
rapidly when markets improve.
Most of the Group’s businesses are 
faced with significant increases in overhead
costs such as insurance, medical costs,
National Insurance in the UK and pensions,
the last of which is estimated to increase by
about £20 million. Management is focused 
on offsetting these increases with cost
reductions and improved efficiencies. 
However, these factors make 2003/04 
full year performance difficult to predict.
Current trading is in line with performance
levels in the second half of 2002/03. 
As regards exceptional costs, the only 
plan in existence is the exit from Retford 
but if other steps become necessary they
will be taken.
In the current year cash generation, debt
reduction and an improvement in interest
cover will be the main priorities. Although
market conditions are difficult, the Group
continues to generate free cash flow and
the reduced level of dividend payments
should enable a greater rate of debt
reduction in the future. The recently agreed
changes in banking covenants will provide
the Group with operating flexibility in
managing this position going forward. 
The net debt position will be further
improved by any business sales.
Paul Heiden
Chief Executive Officer
The Group has a robust core of excellent businesses
with strong market positions and opportunities for
development. They have maintained their competitive
positions during the current economic downturn 
and have been sized for current levels of demand 
but remain capable of responding rapidly when
markets improve.
05 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Chief Executive’s review
Paul Heiden
Chief Executive
