 04 FKI plc 
Chairman’s statement
Gordon Page
Chairman 05 FKI plc Chairman’s statement
This is my first report to shareholders since my appointment as
Chairman. As you may know, I replaced Keith Orrell-Jones who
retired from the Board in September 2004 after five years as
Chairman. I know you will join me in thanking Keith for his
contribution and wishing him a long and happy retirement.
The general economic environment during the period was more stable than
in the previous few years although significant changes in steel costs, the
weakness of the US dollar and rising US dollar interest rates all impacted
the financial results.
Overall turnover and operating profit remained relatively flat year on year. 
At constant currency, however, underlying operating profit saw growth of 
5.0% over the period. Net debt at the end of the period was £351 million
(2004: £349 million), which is a reduction of £26 million from 30 September
2004. Encouragingly this movement reflected continued strong cash flow
from ongoing operations, offset by the impact of rising steel costs on
inventories and the cash cost of discontinued operations. More detail 
is given in the operating and financial reviews.
Significant progress was made on the strategy outlined last year with all
businesses identified for closure either closed or sold with a cash saving of 
£3 million against the originally identified costs. During the year it was
announced that the Company would be withdrawing from the wind 
turbine business at an exceptional cost of £90 million and a cash cost 
of £20 million. 
A number of other business disposals were also completed, some just after
the year end, which included the Group’s exit from the Lifting Products
distribution activity. Also subsequent to the year end two small acquisitions
were completed to further strengthen product and geographical coverage
in Lifting Products and Services. Further realignment of the business
portfolio is expected during the current year.
Reflecting the Group’s underlying performance, the Board has proposed 
to pay a final dividend of 3.0p per share, bringing the total for the year 
to 4.5p per share, the same level as last year.
Further changes to Corporate Governance procedures were implemented
during the year to comply with best practice as set out in the revised
Combined Code with which the Group is compliant. 
As noted in last year’s Remuneration Report, a comprehensive review of 
the policies and mechanisms of executive remuneration has been
undertaken and a number of changes are being proposed. These
proposals, which have been discussed extensively with major shareholders
and governance bodies, are outlined in the Remuneration Report and the
AGM circular. The Board believes the changes will allow the Company to
attract, retain and incentivise executives more effectively to deliver
performance in accordance with the Group’s strategic business objectives.
Y our Board looks forward to continuing the good progress already achieved
in developing the portfolio of businesses in the Group. Demand in a number
of markets which the Group serves is predicted to remain firm during
2005/06 and further improvement in the performance of our ongoing
operations is planned. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all 
our employees for their efforts and commitment during a period of
considerable change across the Group.
Gordon Page
Chairman
“The weakness of the US dollar had a significant
impact on the financial results for the year. 
At constant currency, however, operating profits
grew and cash flow from ongoing business
remained strong. The Board expects further
progress in the coming year. ”
