 Financial results
Three factors, predominantly outside the Group’s control, had a significant
impact on the financial results for the year.
The translation impact of a further weakening of the US dollar reduced
turnover and underlying operating profits compared to the previous year by 
£54.6 million and £5.5 million respectively. Exceptionally large steel 
price increases had a material effect particularly on Lifting Products and
Services. Although these increases were largely passed on to customers
and hence did not significantly affect profits, both turnover and working
capital levels were inflated. The latter resulted in a negative cash flow of 
c. £15 million. Lastly, increased US dollar interest rates increased 
borrowing costs by £0.7 million during the period.
In November 2004 the Group announced its proposal to withdraw 
from the DeWind turbine business it acquired in 2002. At the time of the
strategic review in January 2004 the business was described as a high risk
but potentially high reward venture. Unfortunately market developments
further weakened DeWind’s position and delayed or impaired its growth
opportunities. The material cash commitment required in product
development and inventories could not be justified by the risk profile 
and potential returns and a decision was taken to exit the business.
The exceptional costs of withdrawal are estimated at £90 million of which
£44.0 million represents the write-off of goodwill. The cash cost of exit is
currently estimated at £20 million and will be spread over several years.
Turnover from total operations declined by 4.1% whilst turnover 
from continuing operations was relatively flat at £1,208 million. 
Underlying operating profit was £95.8 million, down from £96.5 million 
the previous year. At constant currency, however, underlying operating
profit grew by 5.0%.
The Lifting Products and Services group produced good profit growth from
strong demand in oil and gas and mining industries. The group was able 
to pass on significant steel price increases to customers but it did impact
the value of working capital. Energy T echnology also improved profitability,
with greater demand for generator product more than offsetting a slow
period for low voltage switchgear. The Hardware group continued to benefit
from strong US housing activity but was impacted by the translation of US
dollar and the move to a sourcing and distribution business model for
general hardware. As anticipated, this reduced operating margins, but
reduced capital employed such that return on net assets remained strong.
Logistex saw improvements in order intake throughout the year, which
should benefit turnover in 2005/06. Despite a further drop in turnover in the
year, operating profits were up slightly.
After goodwill amortisation of £26.7 million, net exceptional charges of
£105.3 million and net interest payable of £23.6 million, the loss before tax
was £61.6 million and after tax adjusted earnings per share were 9.0p.
The Group maintained its emphasis on cash flow during the period and
although no reduction was achieved in net debt, cash generation from
ongoing businesses remained strong. This position was offset, however, 
by non recurring items such as the cost of finalising business closure plans,
the withdrawal from the wind turbine business and the working capital
impact of steel cost increases.
06 FKI plc 
Chief Executive’s review
Paul Heiden
Chief Executive 07 FKI plc Chief Executive’s review
Previously announced exceptional costs and the negative cash flow from
discontinued operations more than offset the inflow from operations,
business and property disposals. The cash consumption of DeWind was, 
as expected, exacerbated by the closure announcement and accounted 
for an outflow of £25 million during the period. 
The return on invested capital* of the Group for the year was 7 .7%
compared with 6.7% in the previous period.
All banking covenants were met during the year. The Group did, however,
lose its investment grade rating from one of its two rating agencies in
March. This change will not impact the cost of current debt financing 
nor will it alter the Group’s strategy, its management of operations or 
its continued commitment to reduce net debt and finance costs.
Full details of the results are given in the operating and financial reviews.
Group management
The changes made to the management structure at the beginning of last
year have achieved the objectives of shortening lines of communication,
improving the cost-effectiveness of corporate functions and broadening 
the skill base of the senior executive team.
A Group Executive of nine, including managers responsible for the five
major businesses, meets four times a year to discuss material cross-
business issues such as employee development, health and safety, risk
management, corporate strategy and business environment and
performance. The Group Executive also provides a forum for the facilitation
of operational best practice across the Group.
In the coming year the Group will further strengthen its process driven
operational improvement activity by extending the activities of the existing
engineering, procurement and risk process councils and introducing lean,
programme management and customer care process councils. 
Businesses are always encouraged to improve their management style 
and structure to best fit customer needs and requirements. T o this end 
both Bridon and FKI Logistex have substantially reorganised the way they 
face their markets to provide improved focus and support to their various
customer segments.
Strategy
The Group continues to follow the strategy set out in January 2004. 
Various actions have been achieved during the year:
(i) closure of loss making businesses – eight businesses were earmarked
for closure. During the year five were closed and two were sold. 
The process was completed just after the year-end with the sale 
of Laurence Scott. 
(ii) sale of six businesses during the year to March 2005 with a further two
business sales completed in April 2005. Principal disposals were Kosan
Crisplant LPG and the withdrawal from lifting product distribution by the
sale of the majority of the Certex businesses.
(iii) commencement of the progressive withdrawal from the wind turbine
business.
(iv) purchase, subsequent to the year end, of two small companies, 
IP Clamps and Tianjin Golik No 1 Steel Wire Rope Company Limited. 
The former improves the product range of Crosby while the latter gives
Bridon access to the growing Chinese elevator and crane rope markets.
(v) opening of an FKI representative office with an in-country executive in
Shanghai, China. This will support the development of many individual
business activities in the Chinese market for both selling and sourcing.
The current year should see further developments in the reshaping of the
business portfolio as the Group continues to concentrate its focus on the
major businesses.
Outlook
There are a number of macroeconomic factors which could impact 
the performance of the Group in 2005/06, notably foreign exchange rates,
interest rates, commodity and oil & gas prices. Notwithstanding these 
potential uncertainties, opportunities for a number of Group activities 
look encouraging.
The activity levels in the Oil & Gas sector are strong and are forecast by
most commentators to remain so for the coming year. This should provide 
a good base for Lifting Products and Services to have another growth year
in 2005/06. Order intake for Energy T echnology, specifically generators,
supports the expectation of improved deliveries and profitability for the
coming year. Independent forecasts predict a reduction in new housing
starts in North America in 2005, however the first quarter of 2005 remained
stable and order levels for Truth window hardware were strong. Current
forecasts for general hardware demand remain relatively flat. Logistex has
seen a recovery in order intake during the last year, which should result in
increased sales in 2005/06. This together with the benefits of cost reduction
activity and more effective project management should result in improved
performance in the year.
Paul Heiden
Chief Executive
*The return on invested capital is calculated on the profit after tax before exceptional items, goodwill
amortisation, interest and other net financial charges, divided by the average of opening and closing
shareholder equity, plus net debt, and plus the net pension liability.
“Notwithstanding these potential
uncertainties, opportunities for a
number of Group activities look
encouraging. ” 
