 Chairman’s statement
04 FKI plc 
I am pleased to report a year of sound progress for the Group with strong
growth in operating performance, a material improvement in the Group’s
net debt position and further steps taken in the strategic realignment of 
the business portfolio.
The general economic environment remained robust in the year with
strong demand from extractive industries, energy generation, US housing
starts and expenditure on housing underpinning improved performance 
for the Group.The translation effect of foreign currency had a minor
impact on reported results; considerably less than in previous years.
Significantly increased commodity prices, especially copper, zinc and
energy costs, did, however, adversely affect operating margins and returns.
Overall turnover from continuing businesses grew by 13.8% to 
£1,273.4 million (2005: £1,118.8 million) with underlying profits up 
by 14.2% to £108.0 million (2005: £94.6 million). Underlying profit
before tax also increased by 14.2% to £79.0 million (2005: £69.2 million)
and adjusted earnings per share by 9% to 9.7p (2005: 8.9p).
Group businesses continued to produce strong cash flows despite the
pressure on working capital of rising turnover and increased input 
costs. Reported net debt at the end of the period was £304.7 million,
a reduction in the year of £46.0 million.This represented a gross reduction
of £110.6 million offset by increases of £40.3 million resulting from the
adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and £24.3 million from the effect of
adverse exchange rates.
The sale of Bristol Babcock represents the largest disposal to date as part 
of the active portfolio management being followed by the Group to
concentrate on fewer, larger and more competitive businesses. Since the
start of the process in 2003, five businesses have been closed, 12 businesses
sold and five businesses acquired.This is a continuous process as evidenced
by the acquisition of Harrington Generators in April 2006.
As we enter the new year the six major operating units within the Group:
Bridon, Crosby,Truth, Hickory, FKI Generators and FKI Logistex utilise
over 90% of Group assets and generate a similar percentage of the Group’s
continuing operating profit. Further changes in the business portfolio are
expected in the coming year.
Reflecting the Group’s underlying performance, the Board has proposed 
to pay a final dividend of 3.0p per share, bringing the total for the year to
4.5p per share the same level as last year.
“The general economic
environment remained
robust in the year with
strong demand from
extractive industries,
energy generation,
US housing starts 
and expenditure on
housing underpinning
improved performance 
for the Group.” The Board itself is undergoing change in a planned succession. In January,
Chris Clark left after six years on the Board.We thank him for his valuable
contribution over that period and his chairmanship of the Remuneration
Committee.We wish him well in his new appointments. In August of 
this year, at the AGM, Russell Edey will step down after ten years’ service.
We have all valued Russell’s contribution and chairmanship of the Audit
Committee and wish him success in his other business commitments.
In September 2005 David Pearl was appointed non-executive director and
will take over as chairman of the Audit Committee. David brings a wealth
of financial and operational experience to the Board. In February 2006
Richard Case was appointed non-executive director and has since assumed
chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee. Richard’s engineering and
senior management experience will be a valuable addition to the Board.
As in previous years, the Board has reviewed best practice Corporate
Governance policies and procedures and made changes where appropriate
to ensure the Group remains compliant with the Combined Code.
Y our Board looks forward to further improvement in operating
performance of the Group and continued reshaping of the portfolio 
of businesses. Demand in the energy and extractive industries looks set to
remain particularly strong and opportunities for organic and acquisitive
growth exist in all groups.The continued strength and volatility of
commodity prices and the recent weakening of the US dollar do,
however, provide a degree of uncertainty.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees 
for their efforts and contribution to another year of improvement 
for the Group.
Gordon Page Chairman
05 FKI plc Chairman’s statement
