 Chief Executive’s introduction
This was a year of many positives for FKI. Robust market demand in 
many sectors in which the Group operates, together with improvements 
in market positioning and operational efficiencies, resulted in strong 
sales and profit growth.This was despite significant increases in raw
material and energy costs. In addition, the overall risks to Group activities
were decreased materially.Active business portfolio management has
concentrated business activities into fewer, larger operations, whilst
operating cash flows and proceeds from business disposals have significantly
reduced net debt.The lessening of the UK Pension Scheme’s deficit,
with discussions underway to reduce it further by the transfer of surplus
property, also lowers uncertainty regarding its future funding requirements.
The Group’s strong trading performance for the year reflects good top-line
growth of over £150 million or nearly 14% combined with an underlying
operating profit improvement of 14.2%.This was achieved despite a
backdrop of materially increased and volatile input prices.
The balance sheet continued to be strengthened with a significant
reduction in net debt to £305 million from the adjusted
*
net debt 
of £391 million in 2005, in spite of adverse currency translation of 
£24.3 million.
FKI Logistex continued its recovery with increases in sales and margin
performance whilst Lifting Products and Services businesses returned
excellent results on the back of buoyant demand in extractive industries.
As predicted, the Hardware group produced a stable performance 
following the completion of the majority of the outsourcing strategy for
non-window hardware which had impacted results over the previous 
two years. Underlying performance in Energy Technology showed strong
top-line growth and good profit growth despite being the group hardest
hit by commodity price increases and incurring some restructuring costs.
Bristol Babcock, which was disposed of in March 2006, was the major
contributor to this improved performance.
Active portfolio management to concentrate activities was reflected in 
six disposals and four acquisitions, one completed just after the year-end.
Following these actions, FKI’s six major businesses utilise 90% of Group
assets and are expected to generate a similar percentage of Group profit.
This improved focus has been achieved whilst strengthening the balance
sheet, having a neutral impact on earnings and increasing Return on
Invested Capital (ROIC) from 7.1% to 8.4%.
Overall, despite an environment of volatile commodity prices and
fluctuations in exchange and interest rates, the Group is well positioned 
to strengthen the market position of its major businesses and improve its
underlying operating performance again in 2006/07.
06 FKI plc 
Operating and financial review
*Net Debt after adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 in 2005 figures. Strategic progress
The Group’s strategy involves the reshaping of the business portfolio to
focus on its major businesses with strong market positions.To that end,
six disposal transactions were completed in the period, including Laurence,
Scott & Electromotors, the European operations of Certex, the wind
turbine business and, towards the end of the year, Bristol Babcock.
In addition, the acquisitions of three small companies were completed 
with a fourth finalised just after the year-end.
Each of these companies’ operations complement the activities of one of
the six major businesses.These major businesses now utilise 90% of the
assets of the Group and generate a similar percentage of Group profits,
a situation that has been achieved over the past three years through strong
performance improvements in continuing businesses, a £201 million
reduction in net debt
*
, and a significant improvement in ROIC.
The implementation of the strategies of the six major businesses 
continued to gain momentum during the period.
FKI Logistex – investing in operating efficiencies, improving capabilities 
and products and building market position both in traditional markets 
and the Far East
Crosby – increasing product range and geographical coverage outside 
US markets
Bridon – consolidating wire rope activities and moving into 
synthetics with acquisition of Marlow Ropes
Truth Hardware – improved customer care and new product introduction 
- increasing market share
Hickory Hardware – improved sector focus and operating efficiency 
in outsourced hardware
FKI Generators leveraging its capabilities and market position with 
new product offerings and acquisition of Harrington Generators
Active portfolio management will continue with further acquisitions 
and disposals anticipated in the coming year.
Property disposals generated sales proceeds of £12.4 million during 
the year.A number of surplus properties still remain to be disposed of.
Group property assets continue to be reviewed with the intention of
aligning ownership with future business requirements and releasing further
assets for disposal.As mentioned earlier, some existing surplus properties
may be transferred to the UK pension scheme as part of the Company’s
ongoing strategy to reduce the pensions deficit.
Paul Heiden Chief Executive
“The implementation of
the strategies of the six
major businesses continued
to gain momentum during
the period.”
07 FKI plc Operating and financial review *Based on same reporting basis at constant currency
