 04 FKI plc Operating and financial review
Operating and financial review:
Chief Executive’s introduction
The year was one of mixed fortunes for the Group.
Stronger than anticipated demand from the oil and gas
and mining sectors was reflected in excellent growth in
turnover and profits in the Lifting Products and Services
and Energy Technology groups. Increased volumes and
efficiencies continued to feed through to margins,
with second half improvements in Energy Technology
very encouraging for future performance.As previously
indicated, FKI Logistex reduced activity levels in the 
US airports sector and total turnover was down slightly 
on the previous year, with profits little changed. Overall
performance improved slightly, but was impacted by the
completion costs of a number of legacy projects.As also
anticipated, the Hardware group’s performance reduced
significantly as a result of a dramatic decline in demand
for window hardware for US housing and was further
impacted by the time lag between zinc input cost
increases and their effective recovery in selling prices.
Encouragingly, the market positions of all of the major
businesses continued to improve during the period as a
result of increased customer focus, investment in products
and services, operating efficiencies and the successful
integration of acquisitions.
The financial results of the Group were, once again,
significantly impacted by the translation of the US$.
The average US$ exchange rate for the year was 
$1.91 compared to $1.78 in 2005/6.The overall effect 
of currency translation reduced reported turnover from
continuing activities and operating profit before special
items in 2006/7 by £47.5 million and £4.7 million
respectively, compared to the prior year.
Overall, in constant currency terms the Group returned
continuing business turnover growth of £105 million
(8.2%), a combination of £129 million (19.3%) increase 
in Lifting Products and Services and Energy Technology,
offset by the reductions in Hardware and FKI Logistex.
Group operating profits before special items for
continuing businesses grew slightly to £100.6 million.
Adjusting for the impact of currency translation, operating
profits before special items improved by 5.3%.
The growth of order books and turnover in the Group’s
heavy engineering activities increased levels of working
capital during the year, contributing to the year end
closing net debt at £329.9 million being higher than 
last year by £25.2 million.A replacement for the Group’s
revolving credit facility of £150 million, which matures 
in July, has been agreed post the year end at a reduced
level of £120 million. The new facility provides funding
for working capital fluctuations throughout the year and,
whilst marginally more expensive, gives improved
covenant headroom.
As planned last year, the Group has transferred surplus
properties to the value of £12.5 million to the UK
Pension Scheme during the year. Further transfers 
of £8.0 million are planned for 2007/8, with one 
US property identified for transfer already sold for 
$10.5 million.The cash will be transferred to the fund
when received. During the year the triennial valuation 
was completed and ongoing funding arrangements,
equivalent to those of the past three years, agreed with 
the Trustees.At the year end the deficit on the Group’s
main UK defined benefit scheme reduced from 
£110.7 million last year to £72.0 million.
Changes to the Group’s business portfolio were much
reduced compared to the prior year and consisted of the
acquisition of Harrington Generators for £6.2 million
and the disposals of the final Certex operation in Italy and
the Group’s chain making operations in the UK and US.
The Group continues to focus on active portfolio
management and a number of opportunities for
acquisition and disposal are being evaluated. 05 FKI plc Operating and financial review
The Board has considered the output from the review 
and has concluded that the Company should move 
to concentrate upon the energy sector activities of 
Lifting Products and Services and Energy Technology.
The improved focus and financial flexibility provided 
by this strategy will enable a clearer understanding 
of the Company and provide the support for future
organic and acquisitive growth.
As a consequence, the Group is moving forward
progressively with plans to separate its FKI Logistex 
and Hardware activities.The objective is to secure a new
environment for these businesses which will support their
growth aspirations whilst providing funds to restructure
the Group’s financing arrangements. During this period 
of realignment the Board is fully committed to proactively
supporting all of the Group’s activities and customers.
As part of the process of separating the Hardware and
Logistex businesses, replacement financing for the current
debt portfolio, including the a600 million Eurobond will
be required at the appropriate time.These considerations,
together with the sentiment towards the US housing
sector, will be the key determinants of the sequence 
and timing of the planned realignment. Decisions 
on individual transactions will be taken as and when
appropriate.The target is to complete the programme 
as soon as possible, always with the intent of maximising
value for the shareholder, and accordingly we envisage 
it may take up to eighteen to twenty-four months.
Proposals for a more appropriate Group financing
structure are well advanced and market testing of the
potential values for the Hardware businesses are ongoing.
The Board believes a viable option for FKI Logistex 
is a demerger, as a listed company, from FKI. Initial
preparations for this scenario have already commenced
whilst other options are still under consideration.
“Encouragingly, the
market positions of all 
of the major businesses
continued to improve
during the period”
Paul Heiden Chief Executive
Paul Heiden Chief Executive
The key metric for the Group continues to be Return 
on Invested Capital (ROIC) which reduced from 8.4% 
to 7.8% with the disposal last year of Bristol Babcock,
currency translation and increased pension interest costs
being the principal drivers.
Strategy
At the time of the interim results the Board announced 
a strategic review of the Group’s activities.This was to
address what has become an increasingly restrictive
financing structure and the Company’s valuation, in the
Board’s opinion, not reflecting the progress of the Group.
Since that time, considerable work has been completed by
the Executive and advisers to analyse, explore and market
test the options available to the Group to maximise
shareholder value.
