 02 FKI plc Chairman’s statement
“This has been another year 
of good progress for the 
Group with improvement in
operating performance and 
a further step forward in the
strategic development of 
the business.”
Gordon Page Chairman 03 FKI plc Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
This has been another year of good progress for the Group
with improvement in operating performance and a further
step forward in the strategic development of the business.
The economic conditions facing the Group have been
somewhat mixed: those businesses supplying extractive
industries and energy have enjoyed buoyant demand, whilst
those supplying the US housing market have suffered from
a severe drop in US housing starts.The movement of the
Sterling/Dollar relationship in the year has adversely
affected the translation of profits. The overall effect of
currency translation reduced operating profit before special
items by £4.7 million which partly masks the progress
made by the Group. Rising and volatile commodity prices,
particularly for copper and zinc, have adversely affected
operating margins and profits as businesses have been
unable to pass on all increases immediately.
Overall turnover from continuing businesses grew by 
4.5% to £1,330.9 million (2006: £1,273.4 million) 
with operating profits before special items flat at 
£100.6 million (2006: £100.0 million). Profit before tax
from continuing activities decreased by 7.4% to £65.3
million (2006: £70.5 million) and adjusted earnings per
share reduced by 10.3% to 8.7p (2006: 9.7p).
During the year investment has been made in higher levels
of working capital in order to support increased sales
activity. Reported net debt at the end of the period was
£329.9 million, an increase in the year of £25.2 million.
Reflecting the Group’s underlying performance, the Board
has proposed to pay a final dividend of 3.0p per share,
bringing the total for the year to 4.5p per share the 
same level as last year.The final dividend, if agreed 
by shareholders, will be paid on 5 October 2007 
to shareholders on the register at 7 September 2007.
During the year the acquisition of Harrington Generators
was completed and the sale of four small businesses 
took place.This continues the process of active portfolio
management, which since the start of the process in 2003
has resulted in the closure of five businesses, the sale of 
sixteen businesses and the acquisition of five businesses.
The strategic review process announced with the interim
results is now complete. Since the announcement in late
November of the launch of the review, extensive analysis
and market testing have been undertaken by the Company
and advisers.The Board has concluded that the strategic
direction that is likely to create the most value for our
shareholders is a progressive focus of the Group’s activities
around the Lifting Products and Services and Energy
T echnology businesses which will have a better growth
profile than the current Group as a whole, reduce
complexity and secure access to sufficient and flexible
financing to support business developments.
The process of separating Hardware and FKI Logistex 
from the rest of the Group will be carried out as quickly 
as possible, but may take up to eighteen to twenty-four
months.The balance between time and value will be
carefully managed in the best interests of shareholders.
Y our Board looks forward to further operating performance
improvement and driving the next stage of the strategic
plan. Demand in the energy and extractive industries 
looks set to continue at high levels.The US housing market
continues to weaken and, despite market share gains by the
businesses, may play a part in dictating more favourable
timing for disposing of the Hardware business.
During the process of the strategic review the Company
responded to expressions of interest for the potential
acquisition of the Group. Due diligence access was
provided to a small number of parties with active
discussions continuing with one. In the light of this 
process and the significant rise in the share price on
31 May 2007, FKI announced that it had been approached
in relation to an offer for the Company at around 130p
per ordinary share.The Board reiterates that there can be
no certainty that any offer will be made for the Company
or the terms on which such offer will be made.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees
for their efforts and contribution over the last year.
Gordon Page Chairman
