 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“FLOMERICS CELEBRATES ITS 20TH
ANNIVERSARY AS AN INDEPENDENT
COMPANY IN 2008, PLACING IT FIRMLY
INTO A RARE AND ELITE GROUP OF
COMPANIES THAT HAVE PROSPERED 
FOR SUCH A LONG PERIOD.“
2007 was a year of investment for Flomerics: investment in
expanding our sales and support teams to drive sales of the EFD
products acquired in 2006 (as part of the NIKA GmbH acquisition);
investment in marketing to begin to build the ‘EFD’ brand in North
America and in Europe outside of its original markets and investment
in collaboration of our development operations in London, Moscow
and India. Much was accomplished during the year which has put 
us into a strong position to build sales and take advantage of the
synergies between our various products and technologies in 2008
and beyond. 
Investment in Sales
The early part of 2007 saw our Regional Sales Directors active in
expanding their teams to take advantage of the opportunity to 
sell the EFD products in territories where NIKA had not previously
invested. The main focus for this was in the USA, France and the
UK. Finding the right people and organising the expanded teams to
give the best coverage of the geography and the opportunities took
longer than we had anticipated. However we finished the year with
a full complement of sales people and the engineers to support
their activities. Alongside the recruitment exercise we were active 
in making sure that all our engineers were trained in our full suite 
of Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) products (EFD, FLOTHERM
and FLOVENT).
Investment in Marketing
Following the disposal of the EM Business the Group is now focused
on the CFD market. This broadly divides into two sub-markets:
– Electronics Cooling (covered by our FLOTHERM, EFD and 
MicReD products)
– Mechanical Design (covered by our EFD and FLOVENT products)
A market survey carried out in 2007 confirmed once again that
Flomerics’ flagship product, FLOTHERM, remains the clear market
leader in thermal analysis of electronic equipment. At the same
time, the EFD products, which have enjoyed great success in central
Europe and in Japan but at the time of the acquisition by Flomerics
were little known outside of these territories, have seen a significant
increase in brand awareness in both North America and other parts
of Europe.
The relationships with our mechanical CAD (Computer Aided
Design) partners, in particular SolidWorks and PTC, continued and 
in the case of SolidWorks saw the release of a new product called
FloXpress. FloXpress is a new flow simulation product that is fully
embedded within SolidWorks®2008 3D CAD software and is
available free of charge to all SolidWorks®2008 users. It is a cut-
down version of the popular COSMOSFloWorks product – also
developed by Flomerics – that enables engineers and designers 
to simulate complex, 3D fluid flow and heat transfer processes via 
a simple, wizard-driven user interface inside the SolidWorks user
environment. The release of this product means a big increase in the
number of mechanical engineers able to access this remarkable 
MUCH WAS ACCOMPLISHED DURING THE
YEAR WHICH HAS PUT US INTO A STRONG
POSITION TO BUILD SALES AND TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE SYNERGIES BETWEEN
OUR VARIOUS PRODUCTS AND
TECHNOLOGIES IN 2008 AND BEYOND. 
4 Flomerics Group PLC Annual Report 2007 “THE INVESTMENTS MADE IN 2007 AND THE
INCREASED FOCUS ON OUR CORE CFD
BUSINESS WILL ALLOW US TO FOCUS ON
DELIVERING RESULTS IN 2008.”
Flomerics Group PLC Annual Report 2007 5
technology and this is expected to increase demand for Flomerics’
software products in the future.
Building familiarity with our products among young engineers and
students continues to be an important part of our marketing effort,
and 2007 saw a significant increase in the use of EFD by universities
and research institutes around the world.
Many of Flomerics’ customers are delighted to share their positive
experiences of using our products, and we continue to publish these
success stories to assist our sales efforts and provide strong editorial
for engineering publications and web portals around the world.
During 2007 we published a record number of success stories which
generated a good response, increased our web site traffic to record
levels and led to an increased number of requests for software
demonstrations – especially for the EFD products.
Research and Development
During 2007 we began the first phase of our plans to make better
use of the considerable expertise and technology managed and
developed in our development centres in the UK, Russia, India and
Hungary. The first evidence of this was the release of an electronics
specific module to be used alongside the EFD products. The EFD
products were already making inroads into certain electronics
applications but the introduction of this new product which saw 
the UK based FLOTHERM and Moscow based EFD teams working
closely together, further enhances the dominant position that
Flomerics has long held in the thermal design of electronics.
Disposal of Electromagnetics Business
In December 2007 we announced the divestment of our
electromagnetics line of business (“the EM Business”) for £1.6m, 
in order to increase our focus on areas where the Group has much
better opportunities for growth. This disposal was completed on 
31 January 2008.
Since entering the electromagnetics simulation market in 1999,
Flomerics built up the usage of its products around the world.
However, with only a small share of the market the Directors
concluded that it would be difficult on our own to achieve a strong
competitive position in this field. The sale of the EM Business to 
CST GmbH, a company that specialises in electromagnetics
simulation, signals the beginning of a strategic relationship
providing best-in-class solutions to customers requiring
understanding of both CFD and EM problems. 
Finance Director 
In December, we announced the appointment of a new Finance
Director. Keith Butcher joined Flomerics from DataCash Group plc
where he became Finance Director in 2002. During his time with
DataCash he played an important role as part of the management
team overseeing a substantial growth in the Company’s market
capitalisation. Keith’s considerable experience is already having 
a positive impact on the running of the Company.
2007 Achievements
Despite difficult trading conditions in some territories we saw good
growth in billings in most areas of our business.
Regionally, Europe (+25%) and Asia-Pacific (+35%) saw good
revenue growth in 2007, with a particularly strong performance in
China and South-East Asia where we expect the opportunity to
continue to grow. US revenues fell slightly as we were impacted by
the loss of a number of key sales staff, however we now have a full
team in place. Turnover by region was: Europe 45.8% (2006: 42%),
Asia Pacific 21.5% (2006:19%) and US 31.7% (2006:39%).
Sales of the EFD products grew strongly and FLOVENT continued
the strong growth from last year.
Flomerics’ business is made up of new licence sales and recurring
revenues from existing customers who each year will renew their
commitment with us for a further year of maintenance or to extend
an existing lease arrangement. Particularly encouraging in 2007 
was the growth in new business which saw an improving trend
throughout the year as the investments made in the sales teams
and in marketing started to have an impact.
Flomerics 20th Anniversary
Flomerics celebrates its 20th anniversary as an independent
company in 2008, placing it firmly into a rare and elite group of
engineering software companies that have prospered for such 
a long period. This landmark is a testimony to the Company’s high-
integrity, people-oriented culture and its core concept of delivering
engineering simulation software for use by designers and engineers
rather than just full-time analysts and specialists. Flomerics has
reached an age that puts it among the most established companies
involved in computer aided engineering, and has just completed 
a record-breaking fiscal year where it has achieved a new high in
revenue and seen its worldwide customer base grow to over 2,500
sites and over 7,000 individuals.
The Future
The last three years have seen many changes at Flomerics. In
addition to the incorporation of the former NIKA team, we have
changed almost half of our senior management team and by doing
so added a significant level of sales management experience. We
have made two acquisitions (MicReD and NIKA) and disposed of 
our electromagnetics business. These changes together with the
investments made in 2007 and the increased focus on our core 
CFD business will allow us to focus on delivering results in 2008. 
We have had a very positive start to trading in 2008 and I believe
this demonstrates that the results of our hard work are beginning 
to show through.
Gary Carter, Chief Executive
28 April 2008
