 Energetix Group plc 09
Stock code: EGX
Chief Executive’s Review
The continuing and growing need to reduce energy costs,
reduce environmental emissions, and provide reliable quality
power is enhancing the already favourable market conditions
for Energetix products.
This demand is evidenced by a number of factors, such as the
heightened awareness and debate amongst consumers of
energy and environmental issues, the increased level of
legislation and incentives being introduced by governments
and other agencies on a global basis, and the growing
significance placed by corporate entities on these factors in
their branding and buying decisions.
Energetix’s strategy of focusing on robust, smart technologies
with strong intellectual property is a key enabler in delivering
these market needs in a timely fashion and in helping us to
meet our fast to market objectives. This strategy also enables
our businesses to focus on our core strengths of product
development and commercialisation whilst predominantly
outsourcing the capital intensive aspects of product assembly.
I am delighted with the calibre of the people we have been
able to attract to lead our subsidiary companies. Each of these
subsidiaries has developed its products based mainly on
utilising mass produced components. This again supports our
fast to market approach, enables us to produce products that
are already some way down the cost curve, and provides a
good understanding of the product life that can be achieved.
This pragmatic approach has enabled strong supply chain
arrangements to be developed, in many cases with multi-
sourcing opportunities to support competitive prices and
reduce risk.
Risk reduction has been a major element of the past year’s
achievements, technically, commercially and financially. Both
Genlec and Pnu Power have delivered products to partners
and customers respectively, and have built on the trials
initiated at the start of the year. 
The signing of agreements by Genlec with two boiler
companies, one of whom is the leading brand in its country,
and the agreement with E.ON where it is planned that Genlec
will become part of its well respected E.ON micro-generation
portfolio, has given Genlec a good initial base for dual routes
to market. Pnu Power has received an excellent response to
its first public demonstration at Intelec in Rome, achieving its
first commercial sale and generating significant interest from
very large players in the telecommunication power field.
The fund-raising in August 2007, to enable the Group to
accelerate these businesses, has delivered a very strong
Balance Sheet and given a high level of confidence both in
delivery of our objectives and in examining future
opportunities for the Group.
2007 was a very exciting and successful year for Energetix; I
look forward to 2008 being as successful. We have set
ourselves some challenging targets; however, I am confident
that the skill and dedication of the Energetix staff will enable
us to continue our track record of delivering or exceeding our
objectives. 
2007 was a year focused on creating businesses from
technology projects developed within the Group. 2008 is the
year that each of these businesses will establish the building
blocks that should enable them to deliver growing revenues
and contribution in 2009.
Particular priorities are:
•
Genlec:
– initial launch, with visibility on commercial sales, of the
Genlec product with our boiler partners;
– confirm the suitability of Genlec as part of the E.ON
micro-generation portfolio;
– increase the number of boiler and utility partners from
the three current participants; and
– select an assembly partner.
•
Pnu Power:
– continue to create sales opportunities in the
telecommunications back-up power field;
– develop and test a larger power system, up to 100kW
of electrical output; and
– growth in revenue.
•
VPhase:
– complete development of the initial product;
– appropriate testing to confirm performance and to
meet safety standards; and
– initiate early sales.
I look forward to our teams achieving these goals and
reporting back to you at the time of our interim results the
progress we have made in delivering them.
A C Hutchings
Chief Executive Officer
8 April 2008
