 Group financial statements 2007 06  Energetix Group plc
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report another successful year for the Group
with further excellent progress on all aspects of the business:
technical, commercial and financial. 
In Genlec, the new smaller and lighter weight micro CHP
module has been undergoing field trials which have
demonstrated that a Genlec enabled device can be operated
at an overall efficiency of up to 95%. Genlec signed
agreements with two boiler manufacturers and in addition, we
concluded an agreement with E.ON to develop and deploy
our technology with the intention of Genlec boilers becoming
part of E.ON’s highly regarded microgeneration portfolio. In
November, we delivered our first prototype product sales to
our boiler partners in mainland Europe. These devices are
now installed and operating in their premises and a Genlec
enabled Daalderop micro CHP boiler was exhibited at the
VSK 2008 International Trade Fair in February 2008.
Pnu Power launched its first compressed air battery product
at Intelec (the International Telecommunications and Energy
Conference), Rome in October 2007 and has delivered its
first order to South African utility Eskom. This unit has
completed trials at Stellenbosch University and has been
installed in a live switch-room, on the Southern Cape of South
Africa. The appointment of Neil Bright as Chief Executive
Officer of Pnu Power has significantly increased the focus and
scope of opportunities available to the company using his 38
years’ experience from the battery industry.
In September 2007, the Group reversed one of its subsidiaries,
Energetix Voltage Control Limited, into VPhase plc (formerly
Flightstore Group plc) and this company was admitted to
trading on the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Energetix Group plc still holds 55.1% of the ordinary share
capital of VPhase plc. With the funds made available from this
transaction, the business has made substantial technical
progress and is in discussions with potential partners for routes
to market. In addition, the Group has begun establishing a
dedicated management team for VPhase plc and is pleased
that Dr Lee Juby has joined the board as Chief Executive
Officer with effect from 1 January 2008.
In March 2008, the Energetix Group Board was further
strengthened with the appointment of Dr Henry Cialone as a
Non-Executive Director. Henry’s world class experience,
having led Battelle Memorial Institute’s commercial energy
business, served on the governing board of the US National
Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and being non-
executive director of a spinout company from Idaho National
Laboratory, brings Energetix access and understanding of both
additional markets and sources of intellectual property. Henry
is currently the President and CEO of the Edison Welding
Institute based in Columbus, Ohio. At the same time as
Henry’s appointment Bryan Gray stepped down from the
Board as a Non-Executive Director. I would like to thank
Bryan for his commitment and support to the Company and
I am pleased that he will continue to act as Genlec’s
representative on the Micropower Council.
During the year the North West Regional Development
Agency awarded Genlec a £0.2m grant to develop the next
generation Genlec product which will apply to combination
boilers. These boilers produce hot water on demand rather
than storing the hot water in a tank until required.
To develop the Group’s facilities we have taken a further lease
on an additional 8,000 square foot unit on the Capenhurst
Technology Park. This unit will house VPhase and Genlec. 
The Group delivered a robust financial performance in the
year with income of £1.16m (2006: £0.25m) of which interest
on cash balances provided £0.41 million (2006: £0.07m) and
the disposal of Energetix Voltage Control Limited provided
£0.69m (2006: £nil) of other income net of costs and product
sales of £0.06m.
The expansion of activities, with 2007 as the first full year since
the Group floated, has resulted in increased overheads before
amortisation or depreciation of £2.65m (2006: £1.01m) and
an increased charge for amortisation and depreciation of
£0.40m (2006: £0.21m).
The world’s primary energy needs are projected to grow by 55% between 2005 and 2030
(World Energy Outlook, International Energy Agency, 2007).
Electricity consumption is projected to double by 2030. Some $22 trillion of investment in
supply infrastructure is needed to meet projected global demand (World Energy Outlook,
International Energy Agency, 2007).
More than two-thirds of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions come from the way we
produce and use energy (Meeting the Energy Challenge, DTI white paper, May 2007).
New global investments in energy technologies have expanded 60% from $92.6bn in 2006
to $148.4bn in 2007 (Clean Energy Trends 2008, Clean Energy). Energetix Group plc 07
Stock code: EGX
Right: A Genlec module
Below: Pnu Power TC1 product
The loss for the year was higher than 2006 at £1.85m (2006:
£1.02m) reflecting a full year of operating as a quoted
company and also the increased drive towards
commercialisation of the Group’s subsidiaries as outlined at
the time of our float in August 2006 and our further placing
in August 2007. The basic adjusted loss per share increased
from 2.86 pence to 3.74 pence. Cash reserves remain very
healthy at £12.78m (2006: £4.45m) and the Group’s business
is fully funded.
Also during the year the Group completed the placing of 
10 million ordinary shares of 5 pence each at 120 pence per
share raising a further £12m gross (£11.3m net). Funds raised
are being used to enable Genlec to engage with more potential
partners, for Pnu Power to address the increasing number of
leads from across the world and to progress newly identified
markets outside uninterruptible power. 
In addition, the fund-raising has strengthened the Group’s
Balance Sheet allowing the Directors to continue to research
and source applicable technologies focused on 
the increasingly important sustainable alternative energy
sector. It also assists when in negotiations with partners 
and suppliers.
Investment in property, plant and equipment amounted to
£0.19m (2006: £0.08m) as the Group invested in facilities for
the expansion of activity and commercialisation of its
subsidiaries. Investment in the Group’s research and
development assets amounted to £1.02m (2006: £0.57m).
At this stage of the Group’s development the Board is 
not recommending a dividend in respect of the year to 
31 December 2007.
The success of our business is driven by the quality and
commitment of our people and I would like to thank all the
Group’s employees for their efforts, hard work and
commitment over the last year. I am confident that the coming
year will be another successful one as the Group continues
the commercialisation of its subsidiaries.
Alan Aubrey
Chairman
8 April 2008
