 Business Overview
I am very pleased with the progress made in establishing our 
three businesses during 2008 and believe that the restructuring 
carried out at the beginning of 2009 has left the Group well placed 
for achieving our goals of cash conservation and revenue 
generation in 2009.
Genlec
Energetix Genlec Limited (‘Genlec’) has surpassed its targets in 
developing further relationships with both boiler manufacturers 
and power utilities. The company now has six such relationships 
in place giving Genlec the potential to access all the major 
European boiler markets including the UK, Germany, Italy and  
the Netherlands.
In particular, a formal product supply agreement with Daalderop 
BV has been established targeting the sale of at least 30,000 
Genlec micro-CHP units for the Dutch and Belgian heating 
markets over the next three years. The agreement with  
Daalderop BV is a key component of Genlec’s strategy of  
targeting the Netherlands for product introduction, a country  
with an enviable record of new energy efficient product adoption, 
the Dutch Government having pledged to subsidise 10,000 
micro-CHP units into Dutch households.
In addition, a tripartite heads of terms has been signed with E.ON 
and a major European appliance manufacturer with the aim of 
investigating the potential to produce mass-market Genlec 
modules, and complete Genlec enabled micro-CHP appliances 
for E.ON’s UK and European domestic heating markets.
These agreements, along with the other collaborations with 
Stiebel Eltron, a leading German heating equipment manufacturer, 
and two further companies demonstrate substantial and broad 
industry support for the Genlec unit. 
The number of relationships fostered by Genlec with major players 
in the heating and power markets is, I believe, evidence of the 
benefits that a robust engineered product, which readily fits the 
existing distribution and installation routes to market, has over 
more complex products.
 
Our 2008 target of creating  
a platform for revenue 
generation and growth has 
been achieved: 
Genlec
• 		 Volume 	 s a l es 	 t arg e t s 	 in	
place with boiler partner.
Pnu Power
• 		 S a l es 	 pi pe l i ne 	 of 	 gl ob a l 	
opportunities.
VPhase
• 		 Pr o d u c t 	 p r ep a rin g 	 to 	 ta ke 	
orders and deliver in 
volume.
Ho u s e h olds 	 a re 	 on 	 a v er a ge , 	 l os i ng 	 up 	to 	 £3 00	
a 	 ye ar 	 be c a us e 	 of 	 poo r 	 en er g y 	 eff icie nc y . 	 Ju s t	
r e plac i n g 	the 	m illi o n 	old e s t 	b o il e rs 	c oul d 	sa ve 	
e ac h 	 of 	 th os e 	 m illi o n 	 h ome s 	 £200 	 e ve ry 	year.
Foreword, Ed Miliband, Blears & Beckett, Heat & Energy Saving Strategy consultation 
February 2009
N ot 	 o nl y 	 is 	 the 	 c ombi n e d 	 m arke t 	 s i ze 	 hu g e 	 ( fo r	
m ic r o g e ne r ati o n ) 	 bu t 	 the 	 UK 	 ho u s e ho l d 	 s ect o r	
a lo n e 	 p r e s e ntl y 	 a c c ou nt s 	 fo r 	 2 7% 	 of 	 t o tal 	 UK	
e mi s s i ons 	 of 	 c a r b on 	 d io x i de .
Element Energy – The Growth Potential for Microgeneration
In 	 the h ome , 	 th r e e 	q u arte rs 	 of 	 c a r b on 	 d io x i de 	
e mi s s i ons 	 c ome 	 f r om 	 en er g y 	 us e d 	 fo r 	 	
he ati ng 	 a nd 	 p r o v i din g 	 h ot 	 wa te r 	 a nd 	 a 	 f ifth	
f r om 	 l ig hti ng 	 a nd 	 a ppl ia n c e s .
2007 Energy White Paper
Genlec enabled appliances including a Daalderop BV ‘CombiVolt’.
Energetix Group plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
06
C hi ef 	 Exe c u t i v e’ s 	 R ev i e w
12065 Energetix FRONT.indd   6 17/4/09   19:03:59 VPhase VX1 with packaging and installation instructions.
VPhase
VPhase plc (‘VPhase’) raised £3.5 million (before costs) in May 
2008 by the placing of 70,000,000 new ordinary shares of 0.25 
pence each at a price of 5 pence per share.
The company launched its VPhase VX1 unit in October 2008 at 
the Interbuild trade show and it is anticipated that the VPhase 
VX1 unit will be available for sale from the second quarter of 2009, 
following CE marking.
During the year, VPhase signed a letter of intent to work with SSE to 
support the commercialisation of VPhase’s energy saving product. 
This has further progressed in January 2009 with Ofgem approval 
for trialing of the VPhase VX1 product under the UK Government’s 
Carbon Emissions Reduction Target (‘CERT’) scheme with SSE 
funding up to £240,000. The trial will be undertaken as a formal 
CERT Demonstration Action and involves installing a number of 
VX1 products in the homes of a range of SSE’s customers to 
measure the reduction in electricity used as a result of VPhase’s 
innovative and patented voltage reduction technology.
Also in 2008, the company signed a memorandum of 
understanding with British Gas, part of Centrica plc, for British 
Gas to independently test several devices. These trials are 
scheduled to commence following CE approval and a supply and 
distribution agreement will be negotiated with British Gas to 
supply VX1 units through its electrical and heating installation and 
maintenance operations in the UK. 
VPhase and Centrica plc (‘Centrica’) also plan to collaborate on 
how the products may be introduced to the North American 
domestic and business services market through Direct Energy, 
one of America’s leading integrated energy companies and 
another Centrica-owned business. British Gas is the UK’s  
largest installer of domestic energy efficiency measures under 
the Government’s CERT scheme and expects to spend up to  
£1 billion on such work over the next three years. In 2007, British 
Gas stated that it installed 17.3 million energy efficient products 
helping more than 6.4 million households save money. 
The fragility of the US electrical  
grid was revealed on February 26, when 
roughly a million customers in Southern 
Florida lost power after a substation fault 
caused a massive blackout.
US DoE Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy Website, March 2008
Modernizing America’s electricity 
infrastructure is one of the US 
Department of Energy’s top priorities.
US DoE, Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, 2009
European officials and electricity  
firms were investigating why a  
supply problem in Germany left  
about 10 million people in darkness 
across the continent.
Associated Press, November 2006
Efficiency is the No. 1 Priority.
Stephen Chu, US Secretary for Energy
Energy efficiency is the cheapest form of 
new energy we have.
David O’Reilly, Chevron, CEO
Around £8.5 billion of energy is wasted in 
the UK every year. This is enough  
to give every man, woman and child  
in the UK £140 a year.
Energy Saving Trust
Pnu Power
Energetix (Pnu) Power Limited (‘Pnu Power’) has successfully 
completed development of its TC1 and TC2 products. Both have 
achieved the important and rigorous CE certification in February 
2009, following independent testing on safety compliance and 
electromagnetic compatibility.
With CE marking complete, the company is building a sales 
pipeline. It has already received orders from the major South 
African utility Eskom, a multiple order worth US$380,000 from P&E 
Automation in San Diego, and an initial order from Telecom Italia 
through our Italian distribution partner, O.S.A.T. Elettronica s.r.l. 
Key benefits of the Pnu Power products are their high reliability 
and long operational life when compared to the incumbent 
technology of lead acid batteries. TC1 and TC2 have both been 
tested to in excess of 30,000 stop/starts and 24 years of 
accelerated life cycle running. This compares to a typical life 
expectancy of 7 to 10 years for a well maintained, air conditioned 
VRLA lead acid battery. In addition, the Pnu Power products have 
also been tested in some of the most extreme conditions for a 
back-up power system, in Pnu Power’s dedicated environmental 
test chamber. 
Energetix Group plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
07
12065 Energetix FRONT.indd   7 17/4/09   19:03:59 Outlook
Despite the recent shock to the global economy caused by the 
banking crisis and the slow down in consumer demand, the need 
to reduce energy costs and reduce environmental emissions, as 
well as having access to reliable quality power, is as strong as 
ever. This global need continues to enhance the already favourable 
market conditions for the Group’s products. Governments across 
the world are looking to stimulate their economies, with one of the 
key drivers being their policies and investment in clean and 
alternative energy products. Barack Obama has just announced 
a plan to help create five million new jobs by strategically investing 
US$150 billion over the next ten years to act as a catalyst for 
private efforts to build a clean energy future.
Energetix is now in a position where we have substantial financial 
reserves, reduced cash expenditure, and products that 
individuals, industry, and governments will want to use to reduce 
costs and CO
2
 emissions, and stimulate economic growth. 
For example, our Genlec product is targeted at the domestic 
home market and it is clear that the construction of new properties 
has been, and is likely to remain substantially reduced from 
previous levels. However, in the UK the number of new build boiler 
installations is only around 12% of the 1.5 million boilers installed 
every year, with the bulk of installations being driven by the need 
to replace failed boilers. I believe that the new £910 million 
increase in the Government’s Home Energy Saving Programme 
announced by the UK Government on 11 September 2008, will 
partially if not wholly offset the reduction in the market from 
reduced new build installations, and can lead to significant 
savings both in terms of fuel costs to home owners and reduced 
CO
2
 emission levels stimulating increased levels of demand. 
One of the areas targeted by environmentalists and governments 
alike is that energy efficiency is the principal way to reduce 
emissions and to reduce costs. There has been significant interest 
and investment into smart metering as a way of helping home 
owners to understand their energy footprint and costs, and  
to enable them to modify their behaviour to reduce these.  
A significant number of such meters are being installed worldwide; 
Florida Power & Light alone have already installed 50,000 units 
across their network and plan to increase this to 100,000 units.  
In the UK, 33.8% of electricity is consumed in the domestic  
sector (Source: BERR Update of UK Final Energy Consumption 
July 2008). 
…the Government will legislate to 
channel £910 million from energy 
companies into energy-saving 
initiatives…
Gordon Brown, September 2008
The climate change act legislated for  
a legally binding path to an 80 per cent 
reduction in carbon emissions by 2050.
Ed Miliband, January 2008
We’re seeing interest in energy 
efficiency in the business world like we 
have never seen before. The mega watt 
you don’t have to produce is almost 
always the cheapest mega watt.
Dan Reicher, Climate Change and Energy Initiatives Director Google.org, 
March 2009
Mike 	 O’ Bri en 	MP, 	 M i n i ster 	 of 	 Sta t e 	 fo r 	 E ne rgy 	
and 	 Cl i ma t e 	 C h ang e 	 at 	 the 	 Ge nlec 	 l a un ch 	 in	
W e s t mi ns t e r , 	10 	 No v e m be r 	 2008 .
“ M i c r o g e ne r ati o n 	 t e c h no lo g i e s 	 th at 	 gen er a t e 	
b ot h 	 he at 	 a nd 	 e le c tr ici ty 	 ca n 	 r e du c e 	 ho u s e ho l d 	
en er g y 	 b ill s 	 a nd 	 pla y 	 an 	 i mp ort a n t 	 pa rt 	 in 	 the	
f ig ht 	 ag a in s t 	 cl i m at e 	 c h a n g e. 	 T he 	 UK 	 n eed s	 	
to 	 dr a m atic a l l y 	 r e du c e 	 d a m ag in g 	 c a r b on	
e mi s s i ons 	 by 	 2 0 5 0. 	 U n de r 	 n ew 	 l aw s , 	 p e op le 	
w ho 	 f it 	 l ow -c arb o n 	 pr od u c t s 	 su ch 	 as 	 the	
G e nle c 	 mi c r o-C HP 	 u ni t 	 w ill 	 s o on 	 be 	 a b le 	 to	
c l a im 	 mo ne y 	 fo r 	 the 	 e le c tr ici ty 	 the y 	 pr od u c e . ”
Energetix Group plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
08 08
C hi ef 	Exec ut i v e’ s 	 R ev i e w 	continued
12065 Energetix FRONT.indd   8 17/4/09   19:04:00 Genlec test facility where a range of boilers from different manufacturers are enabled and tested with Genlec micro-CHP modules. 
Our VPhase product is very well suited to fit into this growing 
market and, unlike smart meters, does not require a change in 
home owner behaviour. VPhase will save energy automatically 
and hence has far more quantifiable energy and CO
2
 sa vi n g s .  
We have identified synergies for the joint installation of smart 
meters and VPhase products, and we are proactively pursuing 
these opportunities, in addition to the relationships we already 
have in place with SSE and British Gas.
Whilst there is emphasis on reducing energy costs and the 
environmental impact of energy generation, there is also a need 
to ensure that the world’s networks, that are predominantly reliant 
on computer based systems, are supported by highly reliable 
quality power systems. Lawrence Berkeley Lab’s report on behalf 
of the US Department of Energy estimated that the annual cost of 
power interruptions to US consumers is US$79 billion. 
Pnu Power has already successfully demonstrated a stand by 
power system with Eskom, the leading South African power utility, 
and having tested our product in the high temperature and 
humidity that can be expected in this environment, we have had 
discussions with the providers of the mobile network for the 2010 
World Cup in South Africa. Very high levels of power and telecoms 
reliability are critical in the exacting demands of a major world 
tournament. It is anticipated that the mobile network will see high 
levels of transmissions through the network during each match 
and, as such, highly reliable back-up power as can be provided 
by Pnu Power is essential. Pnu Power is developing a pipeline of 
global sales opportunities, having already achieved trial sales in 
South Africa, the USA and Italy, and we anticipate this sales 
pipeline will deliver further orders in the coming year.
2008 was the year we said we would work to establish the 
foundations for each business to create growing revenue and 
contribution in 2009; I am pleased to say we have achieved this 
goal with healthy cash resources of £11.0 million and no bank 
borrowings. I am confident of further substantial progress as we 
commercialise our three businesses during 2009.
A C Hutchings
Chief Executive Officer
23 March 2009
Energetix Group plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
09 09
12065 Energetix FRONT.indd   9 17/4/09   19:04:00
