 4 Energetix Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Group Directors’ Report Chief Executive’s Review
Business review
Adrian C Hutchings
Chief Executive Officer
Our Objective
To provide long term shareholder value through the 
commercial growth of our three businesses leading 
to growing earnings per share. We aim to do this with 
our cost effective products designed to meet the 
growing global demand for alternative energy 
technologies.
The Group has a focus on distributed generation, 
energy storage and energy efficiency, our businesses 
are:
Genlec – distributed generation in the home •	
Pnu Power – compressed air back-up power •	
VPhase – domestic energy efficiency •	
Our Strategy
To pursue identified market opportunities in the •	
Group’s target sectors.
To produce products based on robust engineering •	
principles, regularly utilising existing mass produced 
components configured in a novel and patentable way.
To avoid cutting edge science enabling us to de-risk •	
the new product development process.
To provide exceptional levels of customer service. •	
To generate an environment which attracts highly •	
skilled and motivated people that can provide the 
Group with a sustainable competitive advantage.
To manage the Group in a controlled governance •	
environment with due regard to financial and 
other business risks.
“We are now in a position to 
complete the transition of 
the Group from a technology 
development business to a 
commercial products and 
services-led business”
Chief Executive’s Review
I am pleased to present this review of the last twelve months. Whilst 
encountering delays and difficult market conditions, I am confident 
that we are now in a position to complete the transition of the Group 
from a technology development business to a commercial products 
and services-led business. The Group has made substantial 
progress, with two of our three technology platforms converted to 
products and begun commercial sales. Furthermore, we have 
established a clear path for our third technology to follow. 
Whilst we are pleased to see both VPhase and Pnu Power products 
being shipped to our customers, we recognise that it has taken 
longer than originally anticipated to have these products available 
for sale. However, as we now have certified products, we are further 
developing the internal infrastructure associated with the processes, 
procedures and personnel to deliver our targeted sales. 
In our Genlec business, we recognised in 2009 that the downturn 
in market conditions had led to a lack of investment in Genlec 
appliance development from our European partners, and indeed 
this has led to a delay in micro-CHP appliances being available for 
testing in homes in 2009/10, as we had originally envisaged. 
However, in 2009 we also recognised that the market conditions in 
the UK were likely to become more favourable for micro-CHP 
appliances. We therefore took the decision to refine our strategic 
plan for Genlec to introduce a fully integrated micro-CHP appliance 
for the UK market. This has resulted in the unveiling of Kingston, a 
fully integrated micro-CHP appliance based on our Genlec Organic 
Rankine Cycle (“ORC”) technology. We are currently in negotiations 
with a major “white goods” appliance manufacturer and with power 
utilities for both the production and sales of the Kingston appliance 
in the UK. 
The sales cycle for our Pnu Power products is longer than originally 
anticipated, but we are now seeing enquiries for multiple unit orders 
from key trial customers. In addition, we now have products that 
can compete in our target sectors on a first-cost basis, and 
substantially better on a life-cycle cost basis, with battery based 
UPS products. The multiple unit enquiries are pleasing and add 
confidence that our chosen strategy for sales has been correct. 5 Energetix Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
“The guarantee of 
getting an income 
on top of saving on 
energy bills will be 
an incentive to 
householders 
and communities 
wanting to make the 
move to low-carbon 
living”
Ed Miliband, Energy and Climate Change Secretary, 
February 2010
In our VPhase business, we have been disappointed by the slow 
progress that has been made in installing the trial units for the 
Scottish and Southern Energy CERT evaluation; however all 
installations have now been completed and data is being collected. 
In the meantime, VPhase has undertaken its own trials that have 
been independently analysed by EA Technology, a well established 
power management consultancy company and regular assessor of 
energy technologies. These trials indicate that the financial benefit 
of installing a VPhase unit could be significantly higher than originally 
anticipated, in the order of £75 to £135 per annum based on trials 
in a few staff homes (dependent upon, amongst other things, the 
load profile of the property). The small size of this sample means it 
may not be indicative of the saving across the whole of the UK 
housing stock.
The strict management of our cost base and cash resources  
has allowed us to deliver a loss that is lower than last year by  
£0.2 million despite the increased activity, ending the year with  
£5.7 million cash in the bank.
The Group has now established the foundations for its vision of 
becoming a clean energy products and services provider, with a 
focus on distributed generation, energy storage and energy 
efficiency.
General market review
Whilst the continuing downturn in global markets has impacted our 
existing and potential customers, particularly those that service the 
new build markets, this has been offset by further government 
support for clean technologies and an improvement in general 
public awareness of the importance of energy efficiency as a carbon 
reduction mechanism. 
The Directors believe that the UK Government’s introduction of 
Feed-in Tariffs for micro-CHP will provide further incentives to 
promote sales of our forthcoming Kingston micro-CHP appliance 
based on our Genlec technology. The Feed-in Tariff seems to be 
ideally scaled to benefit those micro-CHP appliances, such as 
Genlec, that are heat-led and produce most of the electricity for use 
in the home. 
Global and political framework
Concerns about the high level of greenhouse gas emissions from 
traditional methods of power generation and usage are increasing 
worldwide. In the United States, the Obama administration is 
addressing this issue far more urgently than its predecessor. In 
Europe, efforts to develop low-carbon methods of producing 
electricity are intensifying. In Asia similar work is under way.
For instance, US President Barack Obama set the tone for 2009 
when, on 17 February 2009 and just a month into his term, he 
signed into law his economic stimulus package – including $71 
billion for energy and environmental initiatives and another $20 
billion for green tax incentives.
Closer to home, and in addition to its adoption of Feed-in Tariffs for 
the domestic energy sector, the UK Government has recently 
announced plans for eco home loans. These are designed to fund 
both the initial purchase of energy-efficient technologies, such as 
our Genlec and VPhase units, and also to create an ongoing price 
differential between energy efficient and inefficient homes.
The Group’s position on such initiatives is clear. Whether provided 
through Feed-in Tariffs, eco-loans, household efficiency 
programmes (such as CERT and smart metering), or the proposed 
renewable heat incentive, they are useful in focusing public opinion 
on energy conservation and carbon reduction. We prefer, however, 
to develop products that deliver a compelling economic case 
without artificial subsidies from current or future governments.
Climate change, carbon reduction and energy efficiency dominated 
the global stage again in December 2009 during the COP-15 United 
Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. Views on its 
success are mixed, but significant achievements included the 
drafting of the Copenhagen Accord by the USA, China, Brazil, India 
and South Africa; bringing previously unengaged territories to the 
table and, longer term, helping to expand the global market for 
energy-saving technologies. The pressure is now on to build on 
that progress and create both a politically and legally binding 
protocol at COP-16 in November 2010.
