 2 Energetix Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Alan J Aubrey
Non-Executive Chairman
“The Group will develop 
further into a fully 
commercialised sales 
and associated services 
business”
2009 was a successful year for the Group, during which we 
progressed from technology development to having products 
available for sale. We started 2009 with three technology platforms 
and, despite delays and tough market conditions, we ended the 
year with two products that were achieving initial sales, VPhase and 
Pnu Power. These are combined with our third technology, Genlec, 
for which we have mapped a clear route to market by the end of 
2010 – particularly with the unveiling of the Kingston appliance in 
March 2010.
2010 is a major transition year when it is intended that the 
Group will develop further into a fully commercialised sales and 
associated services business. In order to manage the transition 
from technology development to commercial product sales and 
services, we are currently recruiting the necessary people and 
putting in place the appropriate processes.
The Group has continued to deliver tight cost control during our 
development phase, ensuring that we have sufficient funds for the 
transition period through to volume sales, sustainable growth and 
commercial success. This has resulted in an operating loss  
£0.2 million lower than last year and cash reserves of £5.7 million  
at the end of the year.
As previously reported, during the year and into the early part of 
2010, Pnu Power won orders from National Grid UK, National Grid 
US, Harris Corporation in the US (formerly M/A COM) and Abertis 
Infraestructuras in Spain. These orders indicate that we are on our 
way to making Pnu Power the back-up power system of choice in a 
number of territories. Pnu Power is now receiving enquiries for 
multiple units from existing customers which should lead to delivery 
of a critical KPI for 2010.
Genlec has taken advantage of the improving conditions for micro-
CHP in the UK market, particularly with the introduction of Feed-in 
Tariffs, and has developed its own fully integrated UK-specified 
heating appliance, named Kingston. A number of potential 
marketing partners have shown significant interest in this appliance, 
which is a compact low-cost micro-CHP unit.
During 2009 we also saw increasing awareness of, and support for, 
cleaner technologies around the world. This was epitomised by one 
of the first points made in US President Barack Obama’s speech to 
the Copenhagen Summit: “We have taken bold action at home – by 
making historic investments in renewable energy; by putting our 
people to work increasing efficiency in our homes and buildings; 
and by pursuing comprehensive legislation to transform to a clean 
energy economy”.
On our home ground, the UK Government introduced Feed-in 
Tariffs for microgeneration in February 2010. While we see this as 
good news in itself, we also believe it is an important recognition 
that energy efficiency is at least equally important in tackling climate 
change as renewable energy generation. At Energetix we view the 
Feed-in Tariffs as useful in helping to drive the uptake of our micro-
CHP product, Genlec, which is eligible for the tariff. However, unlike 
other micro-CHP technologies, our Genlec product is inherently 
low-cost in initial outlay and maintenance, and its economic case 
does not rely on any such subsidies. 
During the year we appointed Ambrian Partners as our Broker  
and Nomad. This consolidates our financial advisors from three 
firms to one, improving coordination and providing us with greater 
access to dedicated and specialist counsel specific to the  
cleantech arena.
I would also like to extend the thanks of the Board to all our 
employees who, through their hard work and effort, have enabled 
the Group to achieve another good year. We look forward to a 
challenging and successful 2010, as the Group continues its 
commercial growth.
Alan J Aubrey
Non-Executive Chairman
23 March 2010 3 Energetix Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
“We have taken bold 
action at home - by 
making historic 
investments in renewable 
energy; by putting our 
people to work increasing 
efficiency in our homes 
and buildings; and by 
pursuing comprehensive 
legislation to transform to 
a clean energy economy”
US President Barrack Obama at the Copenhagen 
Summit, December 2009
