 2 E n e r ge t i x Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
Chairman’s Statement
Alan J Aubrey
Non-Executive Chairman
The Company has continued to progress each business to a point 
where they can operate on an independent basis. The transition of 
VPhase to a standalone independently funded commercial venture 
was successfully completed during the year. VPhase is now treated 
as an associated undertaking of Energetix Group. The Group’s 
remaining share of VPhase’s market value as at 31 December 2010 
was £7.3 million. We anticipate that this investment has the potential  
to grow as VPhase increases its commercial activities. This  
transition also played a significant part in Energetix Group being 
able to show a profit of £1.6 million for the financial year. 
As outlined in my interim statement at the 30 June 2010, progress 
in bringing new technology developments to commercialisation can 
be delayed by technical hurdles and take up of a product by large 
corporate customers can be a slow process. Post the year end, the 
Group raised £2.3 million net of expenses from the placing of 
10,000,000 new shares. The Directors believe that these additional 
funds will enable the Group to complete the transition of our Pnu 
Power and Genlec businesses to commercial success.
Whilst the development of our Genlec microCHP product has taken 
longer than originally anticipated, we are pleased that we now have 
our first Kingston boilers operating in staff homes, and we are 
confident that the major technical hurdles have now been overcome. 
The development of the Genlec product is now predominantly 
complete with workshop testing demonstrating performance in 
excess of specification. Sales of demonstration and testing units 
have commenced, CE certification of the boiler has been obtained 
and initial units have been installed in employee homes. It is expected 
that CE certification of the power module will follow in the second 
quarter of 2011. Genlec will carry on field testing whilst continuing 
market engagement through multiple channel partners to continue 
commercial sales and establish a basis for growth from 2012. 
We are continuing to work with the major potential customers we 
have for our Pnu Power product range, and believe that these 
relationships will deliver orders during the current year. In addition, 
we are pleased that the Pnu Power range has been extended to 
include the DC100 product that can now meet the demand of the 
rapidly growing Green Data Centre market. 
Alan J Aubrey
Non-Executive Chairman
22 March 2011
“The Group has made a number of 
significant strategic steps during the 
period, and the Board is pleased with 
the progress made across all 
businesses. The certification of 
Kingston and subsequent orders is 
already promising, and the trials in 
staff homes are progressing well.” 3 E n e r ge t i x Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
Home installation of the Kingston boiler
