 4 E n e r ge t i x Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
Group Directors’ Report Chief Executive’s Review
Business review
Chief Executive’s Review
The Group has now predominately completed all technology 
development, with the CE certification of the Genlec power module 
the only outstanding technology risk. It is anticipated that this will 
be completed shortly. The Board is pleased with the successful 
transition of VPhase, and was delighted that we were able to attract 
Vanda Murray OBE as my replacement as Chairman of the VPhase 
board. I believe that the ability to attract someone with the 
experience and credentials of Vanda speaks highly of the growth 
potential of the VPhase business. It also confirms our belief that it is 
important to match the right leadership skills with the right stage of 
commercialisation of each of our businesses. Vanda’s highly 
successful background in sales and marketing, particularly in the 
building products sector, is an ideal fit with the needs of VPhase.
Genlec Review
The key strategic decision to develop a full microCHP appliance 
has enabled the Company to rapidly move from the prototype 
unveiled at our preliminary results presentation in March 2010 to CE 
approved units being tested in staff homes in January 2011. I would 
like to thank our Genlec team for their professional efforts and 
dedication in achieving this result. During the year, we have also 
worked closely with a major white goods manufacturer who has 
supported us in the installation of a pilot production line in our 
facilities at Chester. We have also worked with this manufacturer in 
the production of the first series of units. 
We have taken initial orders for Genlec’s new appliance, trade 
named Kingston, from organisations in the UK, mainland Europe, 
and North America. We are in discussions with a wide range of 
companies for the development of commercial routes for the 
Kingston product as we believe that the greatest uptake of the 
product will be through multiple market routes.
A key design decision for the Kingston appliance was to develop 
the power module as a separate component. This decision has 
delivered several significant benefits in that the wall mounted unit 
can be installed in two parts, reducing the lift weight, allowing for 
the power module to be simply removed and replaced for 
maintenance, and meaning the boiler can be operated independently 
of the power module. This independent operation could even allow 
for “microCHP ready” boilers to be sold and power modules fitted 
at a later date.
During the year we recruited a manufacturing manager from the 
boiler industry who has undertaken a review of the anticipated 
volume cost of the Kingston appliance. I am pleased that this review 
indicates that we should be able to manufacture Kingston  
appliances for a lower cost than we had originally estimated, and 
this further underpins our belief that Kingston will be the lowest cost 
microCHP appliance.
Pnu Power Review
Pnu Power has completed the development and certification of a 
range of products for the telecommunication, power network, and 
data centre markets; in particular Pnu Power achieved accreditation 
of its Quality Management System to ISO 9001:2008. 
Since the end of the year, Pnu Power has announced that it has 
developed and demonstrated a high powered system designed 
specifically for the power and reliability critical data centre market.
 
The new product, named DC100, has been successfully demonstrated 
to a number of industry experts, consulting engineers and potential 
customers from the data centre market.
 
The investment in greener data centres is predicted to experience 
rapid growth over the next five years, increasing from $7.5 billion in 
global revenue to $41.4 billion by 2015, representing 28% of the 
total data centre market (source: Pike Research, August 2010). 
Analysis indicates that power and cooling infrastructure solutions 
Adrian C Hutchings
Chief Executive Officer
Kingston ergonomic and industrial design 5 E n e r ge t i x Group plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
will be the largest portion of the green data centre market 
opportunity, representing 46% of revenue over the next five years, 
providing strong economic and regulatory drivers for the 
development of battery free solutions like Pnu Power.
 
DC100’s flexible back-up time, high efficiency and low maintenance 
are key benefits of the design. Internal estimates suggest that a 
typical 2MW data centre could save more than £1.75 million of 
electricity over its 20 year life by installing the Pnu Power DC100 
solution rather than a typical rotary system, and also reduce total 
CO
2
 emissions by more than 90% over that period.
To date the Pnu Power product range has been sold into the 
telecommunications and grid switching markets with systems in the 
2kW to 20kW range.
 
The DC100 is a 100kW module and represents a significant step 
forward in power output. These modules can be linked together to 
create systems of up to 2MW of backup power with no material 
effect to performance. This new product uses the same robust 
technology as the smaller systems. 
Pnu Power has been successful in achieving repeat trial sales in 
each of these markets; we now need to move out of the trial sales 
phase and into full volume commercial sales. From our experience 
of this transition with VPhase, it is our intention to recruit the 
necessary senior sales and marketing leadership for Pnu Power to 
take the business forward. Part of the recent fund raise will be used 
to undertake this recruitment and transition.
Market and Policy Framework
On 1 April 2010, the Government’s Feed in Tariff (“FiT”) became 
law. Under the terms of the legislation, the Government spelt out 
how microgeneration products would benefit from financial 
incentives to grow the small scale, low carbon electricity generation 
sector in the UK. The FiT comprises of three financial benefits to the 
owner of the microgeneration device such as a Genlec’s microCHP. 
The first benefit is the generation tariff which gives the device owner 
a quarterly payment based on the measured kWh of generation 
from the device; secondly the electricity generated can be used at 
no cost to the consumer, avoiding purchasing that amount across 
the meter and therefore reducing their energy bill. Finally any 
amount of electricity generated and not consumed in the house is 
exported and receives a small export tariff.
Energetix was actively involved in the dialogue and lobbying in 
advance of the publishing of the FiT by the Department of Energy 
and Climate Change, through its engagement with the Heating and 
Hotwater Industry Council and the Combined Heat and Power 
Association. This involvement continues as we monitor and seek to 
influence the developing regulatory and incentive landscape.
Since the new Coalition Government came to power in May 2010, it 
has conducted a comprehensive spending review, published in 
October 2010 by HM Treasury. In this major review of Government 
spending it stated that, “the efficiency of the Feed in Tariffs will be 
improved at the next formal review, rebalancing them in favour of 
more cost effective carbon abatement technologies”. This review 
was announced in February 2011 and will take place during the 
course of 2011, with a fast track review of solar farms which were 
not anticipated by the Government and are a threat to a balanced 
incentive programme for microgeneration. The high tariff under the 
FiT given to solar PV reflects the estimated 40 to 50 year payback 
without the FiT compared to 5 to 10 years for microCHP, although 
due to the inherent low cost of the Genlec technology the payback 
for our Kingston appliance could be as low as two years. This factor 
should bode well given the Treasury’s drive towards supporting 
more cost effective solutions.
Energetix is also currently monitoring the development of the Green 
Deal, which will replace the energy efficiency obligations which 
power suppliers have under Carbon Emissions Reduction Target 
(CERT), to be introduced in 2012. The principle is that bill payers will 
be able to get energy efficiency improvements without having to 
pay upfront cash, with capital supplied to the bill payer through the 
product supplier, with the loan attached to the property and paid 
off through energy savings. Energetix is again involved through its 
industry associations in understanding how this opportunity will 
play out in the industry.
Following the significant progress made in 2010 and the recent 
successful fundraising, the Group is well positioned to capitalise 
upon the many opportunities that lie ahead in 2011.
Adrian C Hutchings
Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2011 
