 Introducing our new CEO
Transforming Flybe
2013/14 has been a year  
of transformation for Flybe with 
a significant restructuring of the 
business, extensive organisational 
muscle-building, new process 
implementation, in-year delivery 
against key revenue and cost 
objectives, a major equity fund 
raising and the setting out of a new, 
clear strategic vision. Its new CEO, 
Saad Hammad, explains.
Q
 The last few years have been difficult 
for Flybe. What made you want to take 
up the job?
A
There were three reasons. 
First, I spotted in Flybe significant potential based  
on a clear and compelling purpose which the business 
had not really capitalised on. By providing regional 
customers with time-saving access to the world, Flybe 
had the potential to play a unique and powerful role in 
connecting regional communities and linking regional 
economies not just in the UK but across Europe, both 
in a Flybe-branded capacity and by flying regional 
routes on behalf of national flag carriers.
I could see that the alternative to a 90-minute flight 
with Flybe is usually a long and painful car, ferry and/or 
rail journey that is at least three hours long. So Flybe 
plays a unique role in fulfilling important social and 
economic needs. If Flybe didn’t exist, it would be 
necessary to invent it. Our smaller aircraft give us a 
unique ability to serve lower volume regional routes 
which the larger airlines cannot operate profitably with 
their bigger aircraft with more seats to fill. Our aircraft 
types also enable us to operate out of smaller, local 
airports with shorter runways. Through hub airports, 
we also connect local airports to the world.
The second thing that struck me is that Flybe is full of  
good people. Professional, diligent people, passionate  
and committed to what we do. People who, above all 
else, are decent and authentic, with big hearts. 
The combination of a great purpose and great people 
was hugely attractive. 
The challenge, of course, was that Flybe could only 
thrive if structured in the right way. We needed a 
competitive and sustainable cost base, an upgraded 
commercial capability and a rigorous, fact-based 
management culture. The business was in need of a 
significant transformation. I have extensive experience 
not only of the airline sector but also of business 
turnarounds and transformation, so I knew what 
needed to be done. This is the third reason.
Flybe Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 2
