 03
FLYING BRANDS LIMITED  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE 53 WEEKS ENDED 2 JANUARY 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
FINANCIAL RESULTS
The Group strengthened its position in 2003, sharpening its strategic focus and
objectives. This has led to a more proactive and streamlined business. The year has
been successful in terms of the increase in profits and cash generation and the
business is benefiting from an improved infrastructure and motivated personnel.
It is encouraging to report that profit before tax and all exceptional items was
£5.27m, an increase of 10% over last year. Profit before tax increased by 24%
to £5.58m. Adjusted earnings per share increased by 10% to 15.67p with basic
earnings per share increasing by 26% to 16.86p. The improvement in
profitability was principally due to better targeting of our customer database,
rigorous control of costs and the elimination of losses on Listen2Books.
Sales were down 3.4% on prior year. As reported in the Interim Statement, 
the performance of Gardening Direct was disappointing in the Spring but some
recovery was seen in the Autumn campaign. Flying Flowers had weaker sales 
in the second half, but this was, in part, due to our policy of mailing more
profitable customers. Listen2Books achieved a 29% increase in sales and is now
firmly positioned as a market leader in the mail order audio books market.
Benham had a satisfactory year with profits before tax of £0.24m.
Due to the initiatives undertaken by management during the year, the
performance in the second half was significantly better than at the interim 
stage and this is reflected in our optimism going forward.
Strong cash generation has left us with a cash balance of £3.92m on the
balance sheet; we have no gearing and are in excellent financial shape to
develop the business further.
DIVIDEND
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 5.22p (2002: 5.05p). 
Together with the interim dividend of 2.53p (2002: 2.45p), this will represent 
a total dividend of 7.75p (2002: 7.50p), an increase of 3.3% for the year.
Dividend cover is 2.16 times.
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
Mark Dugdale, who took over as Chief Executive at the end of 2002, has now
completed his first full year with the company. Together with his senior colleagues,
he has completed a review of the way we operate and this has led to the
elimination of some middle management positions, as well as a strengthening of
the marketing team. We are fostering an entrepreneurial culture in the Group
which is now supported by robust and effective systems and controls.
We understand the importance of corporate governance and appropriate steps
have been taken to ensure that we comply with best practice for a company of
our size.
OUTLOOK
We have a number of new initiatives in place to refresh our brands, including
widening the overall product offering to increase customer expenditure, more
cost effective customer targeting, expanding our reach in the areas of Gifts,
Hobbies and Entertainment, and focusing more consciously on service and
quality. We will also continue to search for acquisitions that will fit our business
model and enable us to strengthen further our position as a leader in the 
Home Shopping Sector.
EMPLOYEES
I would like to thank all our employees for their contribution in 2003. They have
had to weather a number of changes in the business during the year and I believe
we now have an efficient and effective team to take the business forward.
WE ARE FOSTERING
AN ENTREPRENEURIAL
CULTURE, SUPPORTED
BY ROBUST SYSTEMS
AND CONTROLS 
ALAN FRYER
CHAIRMAN
3 MARCH 2004
