 3
FLYING BRANDS LIMITED ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OVERVIEW AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Flying Brands delivered another good performance in 2004, with the
strategies that were planned and tested in 2003 beginning to bear
fruit. All of the Group’s four brands have been developed and
diversified significantly in the last twelve months, and we believe
that we are now much better positioned to appeal to and capture a
wider section of the market. It is also pleasing that, alongside this
overall brand development, management were able to continue
making the business as a whole more streamlined and efficient.
Profit before tax and exceptional items rose to £5.8m, an increase 
of 10% over 2003. Profit before tax increased by 4% to £5.8m.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 10% to 17.30p. Earnings
per share increased by 3% to 17.30p. The improvement in profits is
attributable to an improved performance from Listen2Books, higher
interest receivable, and also further reducing overheads.
Sales were flat on the prior year, an otherwise good performance
marred by a disappointing Christmas campaign from Flying Flowers.
After an excellent first half, with many of the new initiatives
(principally diversification into new gift areas) testing well, the brand
had a soft second half, suffering from a tough retail trading
environment. Nevertheless, the strategy of positioning Flying Flowers
more as an outlet for excellent value low priced gifts is encouraging
customers to buy from us more often. Gardening Direct also had a
strong Spring campaign, allowing management to invest more in
reactivating lapsed customers in the Autumn. Listen2Books had a
very good year, increasing sales and profits, although Benham failed
to sustain the progress made in 2003. Management will only pursue
sales that are either profitable in themselves or deliver a fast return
on investment.
Continuing strong cash generation has left us with a cash balance 
of £6.02m (2003: £3.92m) on the balance sheet and our lack of
gearing leaves us in a strong position to develop our growth plans
for the business. We remain optimistic about the opportunities that
we will be pursuing in 2005 and beyond.
DIVIDEND
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 5.65p (2003:
5.22p). Together with the interim dividend of 2.75p (2003: 2.53p),
this will represent a total dividend of 8.40p (2003: 7.75p), an
increase of 8.4% for the year. Dividend cover is 2.06 times.
OUTLOOK
Our challenge for 2005 is to roll out successfully the new product
tested in 2004, aimed both at extending the appeal of our brands 
to a wider market, and we see continuing internet development as
being integral to this, as well as continuing to drive up frequency of
purchase from our existing customers.
We will continue to search for suitable acquisitions in the gifts, hobbies
and entertainment sectors. We are applying strict selection criteria to
ensure that the acquisition enhances shareholder value; getting it
right is more important than timing because we believe that there is
significantly more that we can achieve with our existing brands.
We expect to remain strongly cash generative, and will apply our
considerable resources to delivering greater shareholder returns.
EMPLOYEES
Our staff are the lifeblood of our business, and they can feel proud of
their achievements in 2004. Exciting times lie ahead, and I’m sure
they share my optimism for this current year and beyond.
WE ARE BETTER POSITIONED
TO CAPTURE A WIDER
SECTION OF THE MARKET
ALAN FRYER  CHAIRMAN
11 MARCH 2005
