 5
Business review
In my first annual report as Chairman, I am
pleased to report that the Group has made
progress during tough trading conditions in
our markets. In an environment of low top
line growth, revenue growth has been strong
with turnover up 30%. Actions taken earlier
in the year reduced the Group’s operating
losses before re-organisation costs and
amortisation of goodwill from £1.8 million in
the first half to £0.7 million in the second
half, despite the difficulties experienced in
our former US subsidiary, Focus Solutions
Inc (“FSI”). Operating losses in the continuing
UK operations were halved to £1.4 million
(2002: £2.9 million) and reduced to 
£0.1 million in the second half of the year
(H1 2003: £1.3 million).
The Group has continued to expand its
market share in the UK life insurance market.
Whilst the majority of turnover came from
our existing customer base, which includes
seven of the top ten life and pensions
companies, we won some significant 
new customers during the year, including
Prudential, Paymentshield and Misys IFA
Services. In addition, good progress was
made on developing our recurring revenue
which includes annual licence fees, support
and maintenance, and volume related
revenue. This increased to 17% of turnover,
(£1.2 million), compared to 11%, 
(£0.6 million) last year.
Market conditions in the US proved to be
particularly tough. Whilst opportunities were
identified and developed, these did not
generate any revenue during the year.  
The Board believed that its US subsidiary,
acquired in April 2002, would continue to
need significant cash investment and so
took the decision to sell 51% of its stake 
to the management of FSI for a nominal
consideration. The sale was completed in
March 2003 and the Group will no longer
be responsible for any costs in relation
to FSI. By retaining a 49% investment
in FSI, the Group will ensure that
shareholders still benefit from any future
success of the US Group in the North
American market. 
Financial performance
Turnover for the year ending 31 March
2003 was £6.6 million compared with 
£5.1 million in the previous financial year. 
Operating losses were £3.0 million,
including a loss of £1.6 million from the
Group’s discontinued US operations. This
compared to an operating loss of 
£2.9 million in 2002.  
Loss on ordinary activities before interest
was £3.9 million (2002: £2.9 million) after 
£0.9 million loss on disposal of the
US operations. Losses after tax were
£3.4 million (2002: £2.6 million), after a
corporation tax credit of £0.4 million against
the costs of investment in research and
development for the two years ending
March 2002.
Results for continuing operations, (the UK
business), show revenue in the second half
increasing by 33% over the first half year,
reflecting a traditional pattern of sales; in
general, 40% of turnover usually occurs in the
first half of the year and 60% in the second
half, reflecting customer spending patterns.
This revenue growth, combined with cost
cutting measures taken at the half year,
reduced operating losses for the continuing
operations significantly. Operating loss
before re-organisation costs and
amortisation of goodwill was £1.4 million
(2002: £2.9 million) and £0.1 million in the
second half of this year compared to 
£1.3 million in the first half.   
Cash and money market deposits at 
31 March 2003 were £1.7 million, compared
with £2.2 million at the 30 September 
2002 and £4.6 million at the end of the last
financial year, and the balance sheet is 
debt free.
Loss per share for the year ending 31 March
2003 was 13.4p, compared with a loss of
10.3p for the year ending 31 March 2002. 
In view of the current losses the directors
are not recommending the payment of 
a dividend.
People 
The Group has achieved substantial growth
to date and during the year a number of
changes to the Board were made to help
take the Group forward to its next phase of
growth. 
In December 2002, Richard Jephcott
stepped down as Chairman to allow him to
assist the Group in the strategic
development of its software business. 
I took up the position of non-executive
Chairman, following my appointment to 
the Board in July 2002 as Deputy Chairman.
I would like to thank Richard for his valuable
contribution to the development of the
business since flotation. I look forward to
using my international experience in the 
IT and financial services industries and
business network developed over 30 years
with the Unisys Corporation, to help the
Group achieve its strategy and create
shareholder value. 
Lin Johnstone also joined the Board in July
2002 as a non-executive director bringing
valuable expertise in the global exploitation
of leading edge technology. 
In addition, Martin Clements was appointed
to the Board as Financial Director on 
12 June 2003.  Sue Hele has stepped down 
as Finance Director but will continue to
support the Group within the finance 
team. As Focus enters the next phase of 
its development, the Group will benefit
enormously from Martin’s experience in
developing high profile software companies
both in the UK and internationally.  I would
like to extend my thanks to Sue for her
commitment and contribution to the Group
during the last two and half years.
The strong growth of the Group’s revenue
from its existing customer base is testament
to the reputation of our staff for both their
technical expertise and responsiveness to
customer requirements.  To achieve these
results in the current environment has
required both flexibility and commitment
from our staff for which I am extremely
grateful.
Outlook
The need to reduce costs coupled with
forthcoming changes in regulation is 
driving insurance companies and others 
in the financial services industry towards
electronic trading. 
However, customers are still reviewing
expenditure carefully and the insurance
market remains volatile. Consequently, we
will continue to reduce costs and target
resources on our core market to maintain
the Group’s improving financial performance
in a challenging environment. The Group 
will continue to move towards delivering
value for shareholders by strengthening its
position as a leading provider of electronic
trading solutions to the life and pensions
industry and working to fully realise the
potential of its software, goal:technology,
in other market sectors. 
Chairman’s Statement
Alastair Taylor   6
Focus Solutions and Norwich Union won ‘Best use 
of IT in insurance’ at the 2003 Financial Sector
Technology Awards 
Emma Swingle - Solutions Group QA Manager
Emma manages the solutions group quality 
assessment team, with full responsibility for 
ensuring delivery of project elements, to 
specified quality, time and budget requirements.
Focus Solutions Annual Report & Accounts 2003
