 6 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Focus Solutions and Zurich won ‘Best use 
of IT in insurance’ at the 2004 Financial Sector
Technology Awards 
Chief Executive’s Statement
Last year was a difficult year in the UK
insurance market. Against this backdrop,
Focus was also managing a major
transition in its business as the Norwich
Union POS solution, RIO, was coming to
the end of its development cycle in terms
of revenue generation. In this tough
environment, Focus delivered a very
encouraging performance, with 30%
growth in sales of goal:technology and
associated services, the successful launch
of XFormation and the signing of the first
partnership deal with Milliman. 
Underpinning our plans for the Group has
been the recognition that we must make
the business sustainable and scalable. 
In terms of sustainability, it is our
objective to extend the customer base
by entering additional market sectors.
A key medium term objective is for our
recurring revenues to substantially cover
our fixed cost base. While we remain
someway from achieving this goal,
substantial progress was made in the
year. In the short term, our solutions
business is close to sustainability based
on our established strategy for the
design, delivery and implementation of
world class e-trading solutions based
around our MCA components for the
financial services markets, built using
goal:technology, our XML toolkit.
In terms of scalability we see the
technology side of the business offering
much greater short term opportunities.
The exploitation of goal:technology in
other markets through partners has 
formed a major plank of our strategy for a
number of years. We have now secured
our first partnership arrangement with
Milliman and have an ongoing business
relationships with Fidelity Information
Services. We have also joined the BEA
Partner programme. The development
and launch of XFormation, derived from
the goal:technology family of software,
is moving the business into other non-
financial services related markets. 
MCA solutions for the life and
pensions market
The past few years have been very
difficult for the UK life and pensions
industry, with falling stock markets,
increasing regulation and consolidation in
the industry. The move towards electronic
trading, although slow to take off initially,
is now gathering pace. A recent analysis
of the percentage of transactions now
being delivered electronically shows that
17% were automated in 2003, compared
to 4% over 2002. (Source: Focus Quotient
2003). With all of the top 10 UK life and
pensions companies using
goal:technology, Focus is now a leading
supplier of customer management
solutions to this market, providing one
of the key components required to make
straight through processing of
applications for pensions and insurance
policies a reality. 
Software that incorporates
goal:technology has now been
distributed to approximately 40,000
users within the UK life insurers and
the IFA community. This represents a
significant foothold in our core market
and provides an important reference for
other markets inside and outside the
financial services sector.
During the past year, we have secured
important new business with Winterthur
Life UK, Webline, and Clerical Medical.
Marlborough Stirling’s market leading 
IFA Portal business, The Exchange, 
has signed an agreement to use
goal:technology in its Exweb Gold
service. An established customer, 
Zurich, has radically transformed its
direct sales force POS using MCA based
on goal:technology, over 98% of its
transactions from this channel are now
received electronically. It has also signed
a contract to use MCA for new business
based on goal:technology in its
extranet, allowing the IFA channel to
place transactions online. 
Entry into the mortgage market
During the last twelve months, MCA for
mortgages was selected by Kensington
Mortgages to build a new online
mortgage application system and by
Network Data, a leading mortgage
sourcing company, to support the
provision of mortgage products. Focus
has previously worked with two major
life insurers to develop solutions to
capture and deliver mortgages and
associated general insurance
transactions electronically. With the
proliferation of mortgage products and
the introduction of legislation in
October 2004 to regulate the provision
of mortgage advice, mortgage lenders
are looking for solutions to achieve the
new compliance requirements.
John Streets  Chief Executive Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7
goal:technology 
goal:technology, Focus’ XML based
toolkit is designed to enable the rapid
development of components to
automate the sales process. It comprises a
suite of products that enable the simple
design, development and deployment of
complex data capture processes that can
be implemented as a standalone
technology or integrated within existing
products or solutions to significantly
enhance data capture capability. An XML
data capture built using goal:technology
can be reused in multiple business
channels and environments.
As a result, solutions built using
goal:technology are built to change
and are to a large extent “future proofed” .
This compares to the traditional
approach to building software, which has
resulted in many legacy systems with
long lead times for development, and
software that is difficult and costly to
change and maintain.  With speed and
flexibility becoming key differentiators of
company performance, these old models
no longer make commercial sense. 
Our customers are looking for solutions
that enable them to gain competitive
differentiation in their market and that
are flexible enough to allow them to
respond to continuing change in market
conditions. They are looking for fast
development and implementation
timescales, solutions that are built in 90
days, are easy to change and can deliver
a return on investment within the
current budget year. goal:technology
is unique in meeting these requirements
and underpinning the delivery of
solutions to customers facing tough
trading environments. 
goal:technology is generic, and can be
used in a wide range of industries where
the simple creation of sophisticated front
end applications is required. Our
partnership programme has been set up
to extend the reach of goal:technology
into market sectors outside the life and
pensions market, targeting software
companies and systems integrators,
where goal:technology can add value
to their solutions and cut the costs of
development and maintenance. Our US
partner, Milliman, is making good
progress, with goal:technology and is
now ready to deploy solutions for three
large US general insurance companies. 
As standards continue to evolve, we have
made an early move into the XForms
market , which we see as an important
development. XFormation has been
developed as the first working XForms
builder/ processor package and made
available to the wider development
community over the Internet. 
The XForms standard defines a dialect
for the next generation of forms
technology that is set to replace HTML
forms. The new XForms standard has
been developed by the W3C, the
worldwide community responsible for
the standards that support the World
Wide Web. The XForms specification
overcomes current limitations of HTML
and reduces the need for extensive
script when developing interactive web
pages. The XForms standard is device
independent and will allow complex
functionality to be deployed across the
web and on other deployment devices
such as mobile phones or pocket PCs.
This in itself represents a major market
opportunity for other sectors to gain the
advantages currently enjoyed by our UK
life and pensions customers.
Focus will continue investing to ensure
that our goal:technology XML toolkit
exploits the recent advances in data
capture led by the W3C Internet
standards authority.
Strategy
It is our strategy to create a sustainable
and scalable business. The provision of
customer management solutions to the
UK life and pensions market using
goal:technology can generate
sustainable profits in the foreseeable
future, coupled with taking
goal:technology into other associated
markets (such as general insurance and
mortgages). To achieve further growth,
the Board believes there is significant
opportunity in exploiting
goal:technology more widely through
developing partnership agreements
with organisations operating in different
geographical and vertical markets. 
Prospects
Although we expect market conditions
to remain tough in the forthcoming
year, our target market will continue to
look for solutions that cut the costs of
distributing their products and help
them meet the challenge of the new
regulations. We aim to capitalise on our
strong position in the life and pensions
market and build on our initial wins to
establish a presence in the mortgage
market.  We now have a track record of
delivering benefits to customers,
underpinned by innovative software
that has global multi-market potential.
Tight control on costs, coupled with a
closely targeted approach to sales and
partnership development will ensure
that the Group continues to make good
progress in implementing its strategy. 
A Focus POS solution wins FST
‘Best use of IT in Insurance’ award
for 2nd consecutive year
The Zurich Advice Network selected
Focus Solutions to deliver their new
Point of Sale (POS) solution called ETi
(Electronic Trading instantly) using
components of Focus’ Multi-Channel
Advice (MCA) application suite. The two
organisations worked closely together
using a RAD (Rapid Application
Development) approach to facilitate 
a quick delivery. In January 2003 ETi
was rolled out to all 3,500 of ZAN’s
advisers, following just a three-month
development period.
The ETi project exceeded the original
business objectives set by Zurich and
since the implementation has delivered
significant business benefits to the
financial services organisation. Over 
98% of Zurich’s non-regulated business
is now delivered electronically and as a
result of introducing ETi, business
volumes for non-regulated products
have more than doubled and this level 
is increasing still month on month.
In March 2004, ETi won the Financial
Sector Technology 2004 award for the
‘Best use of IT in Insurance’ – the second
consecutive year that a POS solution
built by Focus has won this category.
“The ETi system has transformed the way
we sell our non-regulated business and
feedback from our advisers has been very
positive. ”
Paul Kenmir,
Sales Process Director for Zurich
Financial Services
