 8 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
“Our blue chip customer base and track record of improvement in
business process management based on innovative technology puts
us in a strong position.” John Streets, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s STATEMENT
The primary aim for the management team over the past twelve
months has been to take Focus through to profitability. The Group
has come a long way since we floated five years ago. To achieve this
during a period when capital expenditure was under pressure in
our core markets is particularly noteworthy. Focus delivered a very
encouraging performance, growing sales of goal:technology and
related services by 40%, adding new customers and successfully
launching Focus Software. 
Underpinning our plans for the Group over the past two years has
been the recognition that we must make the business sustainable
and scalable. 
In terms of sustainability, our objective has been to extend the
customer base by entering additional retail financial services market
sectors. A key medium term objective is for our recurring revenues
to substantially cover our fixed cost base. We remain someway from
achieving this goal, however, good progress was made in the year.
Focus Business Solutions is profitable, based on our current strategy
to design, deliver and implement world class e-trading solutions for
the financial services markets.
In terms of scalability we see Focus Software as offering much
greater long term opportunities. The exploitation of goal:technology
in other markets through global partners is a major plank of 
our strategy.
Focus Business Solutions
Over the past seven years, FBS has built a reputation in the UK 
life and pensions market for delivering leading edge customer
management solutions across multiple distribution channels, based
on our goal:technology software. The challenge in this market has
been to collect large amounts of information about customers and
prospective customers and to record this information accurately
and cost efficiently. The requirement for accuracy has been driven
by regulation, with the life and pensions companies required to
prove that they sold the right product to each customer. The need
to collect this information efficiently has come from the life and
pensions companies themselves, as they have sought to 
maximise returns on investment and to cope with the world 
of 1% commissions. 
A wave of new regulation from the Financial Services Authority has
followed and in the last year we have seen:
– Depolarisation of the distribution of UK life and pensions
– Mandatory electronic reporting across all regulated firms
– Regulation of mortgage sales
– Regulation of general insurance sales
Depolarisation is the key driver for IT spending in the UK life and
pensions industry. This will have a significant impact on distribution
channels and the processes that support them. The old tied agent/
independent advisor split will be supplemented by a new channel,
multi-tie agents, who will sell products from a limited number
of providers. Although there are likely to be fewer players in the
market through consolidation, new combinations of providers,
distributors and advisors will emerge. Minimising the costs for
these new distribution models is critical and represents a major
opportunity for MCA, Multi Channel Advice business process
solutions provided by FBS.
FBS has continued its penetration of the UK mortgage market,
capitalising on its ability to provide the business process solutions
required to handle the new regulated sales processes. As a result 
of the work undertaken by Focus, intermediaries dealing with
Mortgages plc have been provided with the facility to complete
Key Facts Illustrations in line with the requirements of the Financial
Services Authority’s mortgage regulation, which came into force in
October 2004. 
FBS’s ability to develop, deliver and deploy front-office solutions 
in short timescales, sometimes in less than 90 days from start to
finish, remains one of its principle differentiators in the market. FBS
offers consultancy, business analysis, project management, systems
integration, testing and support services to its clients in the UK 
retail financial services market based on customer management
solutions within the MCA process framework.
Focus Software 
The establishment of Focus Software reflects the ambitions of 
the Group to achieve global scale. We have been convinced for
some time that goal:technology is suitable for markets and
applications outside of the UK financial services market, and the
recent collaborative relationships with BEA and Milliman USA Inc.
have been set up with this objective in mind. 
24215 Pre 1  6/21/05  12:23 PM  Page 8 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 9
The goal:technology suite comprises four propositions. Three are
targeted at global technology BPM vendors, such as BEA, to 
allow their customers to develop business applications, proof of
concepts or user interfaces rapidly and cost effectively. The fourth,
XFormation, is targeted at the R & D and academic community,
supporting the emerging XForms standards, in preparation for
commercial use as XForms become more widely adopted over the
coming years. A new version of XFormation has been completed
and a European distribution agreement signed with Grey Matter,
one of the UK’s leading suppliers of business, technical and
development software, went live in May 2005.
During the year, the FS business development team have been
creating a great deal of interest in goal:technology in a wide variety
of areas, with a number of partnerships in development and
significant proof of concept collateral. 
Strategy
It is our strategy to create a sustainable and scalable business. 
The provision of business process solutions, focused on the
customer management MCA framework, to the UK retail financial
services market by Focus Business Solutions can generate
sustainable profits in the foreseeable future. FBS has an enviable
client list in the UK life and pensions market and is well placed 
to exploit the opportunities generated by the introduction of
further regulation into the mortgage and general insurance
markets. These markets have the same need for extensive 
re-engineering including improved business sales processes, data
collection, accurate recording and cost efficient straight through
enterprise processing as the UK life and pensions markets have
experienced over the past few years.
To achieve further growth, the Board believes there is significant
opportunity in exploiting goal:technology more widely by Focus
Software developing partnership agreements with organisations
operating in different geographical and vertical markets. 
Prospects
In the forthcoming year, our target markets will continue to look 
for solutions that cut the costs of distributing their products and
help them meet the challenge of the significant new regulations.
Our blue chip customer base and track record of improvement in
business process management based on innovative technology
puts us in a strong position to exploit the opportunities this will
generate. Our first partnership agreements for goal:technology
offer significant opportunities for future growth and we will
continue to focus resources on supporting them. Tight control 
on costs, coupled with a closely targeted approach to sales and
partnership development will ensure that the Group continues 
to make good progress in achieving a sustainable and 
scalable business.
John Streets  Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s STATEMENT
24215 Pre 1  6/21/05  12:23 PM  Page 9
