 4 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
"We have enjoyed our most successful year yet, and are in good
shape to continue to improve our financial performance and
increase growth next year. " Alastair Taylor, Chairman
Chairman’s STATEMENT
Business review
I am very pleased to be able to report a positive set of results for
Focus Solutions Group for the year ended 31 March 2005. For the
first time as a public company, we have generated a full year profit
and good progress was made in all areas although turnover was
only marginally ahead of 2004 at £5.43 million. This represents an
exceptional achievement given the major change in the structure 
of the business over the past three years, with significant growth in
sales of goal:technology licences and related services replacing the
revenue generated by the major Point of Sale (POS) solution – 
RIO, developed for Norwich Union. goal:technology licences and
services revenue grew strongly during the year, up by 40% whilst
revenues from Norwich Union for RIO fell to less than £250k, down
from £1.7 million last year. We have now reached a point where the
business has a robust platform for future growth. 
During the year, we continued to restructure the Group to meet 
the needs of the markets in which we operate and we have formally
split the business into two operating units, Focus Business Solutions
and Focus Software, supported by a central services function. Focus
Business Solutions (FBS), the principal operating company in the
Group, is responsible for the provision of business process solutions
to support customer management processes within the UK retail
financial services industry. Focus Software (FS) has been established
to exploit the value of the Group’s XML development tool,
‘goal:technology’ . Initially developed to supply business process
solutions to the financial services industry, FS’s objective will be to
extend the use of goal:technology in other vertical markets through
strategic partnerships. The central services function provides
management, accounting, IT and administrative support to the Group.
Focus Business Solutions
FBS delivered an excellent trading performance during the period,
with sales of goal:technology based solutions up by 40% compared
with 2004, new customers in the mortgage, retail banking and
general insurance markets and good growth in business with
existing customers.
During the year, FBS signed a five year contract with Zurich
Financial Services for the supply of a multi-tie POS for its Openwork
network. This contract, which represents the first phase of the
project, is worth £1.7 million and reinforces the relationship
between Focus and Zurich, which has grown every year over the
past four years. 
FBS also started on the development of a multi-tie new POS for 
a major UK retail bank, to support the sale of regulated life and
pensions products for both corporate and personal business by
over 800 field sales staff.
We continued to build on our entry into the mortgage market,
signing a contract with specialist mortgage lender, Mortgages plc,
to provide it with the ability to respond efficiently to the
requirements of the new mortgage regulations that came into 
force in October 2004 (known as “M-Day”). During the year, we also
won a major contract with a newly formed distributor of mortgage
products,  and since the year end, we have secured a further
customer in this market; Capital Home Loans Limited. A strategic
partnership was formed with the leading mortgage sourcing
provider, Trigold, to develop electronic links between mortgage
intermediaries and lenders. Trigold has over 130 lenders on its
platform and over 22,000 registered users of its portal.
We continue to offer market leading innovative business process
solutions, and FBS is a leading provider of customer management
solutions to regulated financial services institutions selling
protection and investment products in the UK. The UK life and
pensions market remains the most important part of the business:
the majority of the top 10 life and pensions providers in the UK 
are customers and goal:technology has over 40,000 deployments
in the UK. 
Focus Software
Towards the end of the financial year, we set up FS as a separate
division within the Group. The development team responsible for
the production of goal:technology software have been joined by an
experienced business development team, tasked with the objective
of exploiting our innovative technology in other vertical markets.
FS’s sales and marketing activities will be focused through 
partners primarily. The relationship with BEA Systems Inc to sell
goal:technology, where appropriate, as part of their WebLogic
Platform 8.1
TM
is progressing well. BEA is a billion dollar enterprise
software company quoted on NASDAQ and has over 15,000
customers worldwide, including the majority of the Fortune 
Global 500 Companies. The Board believe this will be an important
partnership for the Group over the next few years as it gives us the
opportunity to grow internationally in all market sectors. 
FS is putting particular emphasis on the Business Process
Management (BPM) and Service Orientated Architecture (SOA)
markets, leveraging its unique product set, goal:technology, to add
value to existing suppliers in these markets. In addition, we are
concentrating on the key vertical markets of government and multi-
national enterprises where multi-channel internet based
technologies such as goal:technology are considered strategically
important. Focus Software continues to invest in innovative product
development, and has entered into a distribution deal with Grey
Matter, the UK’s leading specialist distributor of software to the
technical developer community, for its XFormation product, the
world’s first commercially available XForms editor.
24215 Pre 1  6/21/05  12:23 PM  Page 4 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5
A fully compliant online KFI developed, implemented
and live within just 60 days, ready for M-Day
In August 2004, Mortgages plc, a specialist non-conforming lender, started
work with Focus Solutions, on an Extranet service that would provide
intermediaries with the facility to process an online Decision in Principle (DIP),
Key Facts Illustration (KFI) and Mortgage application. The requirement was to
provide an online facility for brokers and packagers to enable them to process
FSA compliant business post Mortgage Regulation (M-Day – 31 October).
Focus completed the project on time and to budget. Mortgages plc launched
their new online solution at midnight on 31 October and successfully met the
requirements for M-Day.
Focus also provided seven of Mortgages plc’s branded lending partners
including; Bristol & West, Solent, Advantage, Opus, Pink Home Loans, 
Genesis and Home Loans Direct, with a branded KFI generator.
Over 400 KFIs were produced within the first week and the new solution
established Mortgages plc as the only UK lender to offer branded KFIs on 
M-Day.
The new solution provided intermediaries with the capability to produce a 
KFI within 4-5minutes. 
“Our objective is to deliver a first class online proposition to the market.  
We selected Focus because they provide a proven track record of rapidly 
bringing valued, cost effective solutions to market quickly. ”
Peter Beaumont, Peter Beaumont, Peter Beaumont, 
Sales & Marketing Director, Mortgages plc Sales & Marketing Director, Mortgages plc Sales & Marketing Director, Mortgages plc
Case STUDY
24215 Pre 1  6/21/05  12:23 PM  Page 5 6 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Review of results
Focus’ main priorities for the year were to grow new business 
to cover the expected decline in revenues from the RIO project, 
to maintain a tight control of costs and to continue the progress
towards profitability. We achieved all three.
Turnover for the year ending 31 March 2005 was £5.43 million
compared with £5.39 million in the previous financial year. This
small increase reflects the change in sales mix which continued in
the year with the completion of the Norwich Union POS, RIO and
continued strong growth in goal:technology licence and related
services up by 40% from £3.7 million in FY2004 to £5.2 million in
FY2005. Over the past three years, sales of goal:technology licence
and related services have grown by over 400% from £1.0 million 
in FY2002.
Despite the small improvement in top line revenues, a combination
of the change in sales mix and the benefits of cost control measures
implemented over the past two years, meant that the Group
delivered its first profit as a public company. Operating profit 
for the year as a whole was £26,000. In the second half of the 
year, operating profit increased to £0.8 million compared with 
£0.1 million in the second half of 2004. Total costs for the year 
were reduced from £5.9 million to £5.4 million. 
Cash outflow from operating activities during the year totalled 
£0.5 million (FY2004: £0.9 million). In the second half of the period,
the Group generated £0.7 million of cash from its trading activities
and at the end of the year, cash balances exceeded £1 million.
The balance sheet remains debt free. We do, however, have bank
facilities totalling £350,000 with HSBC plc, should we require them.
Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ending 31 March
2005 were 0.1p, compared with a loss of 1.0p for the year ending
31 March 2004. 
The Board’s primary objective is to provide the resources necessary
for the business to grow and create a business of sustained
profitability and cash generation. In the long term, this represents
the best opportunity for return on investment. Accordingly, we
currently have no plans to pay a dividend in the near future.
Research and development
The investment in research and development and in product
development continues to be substantial and totalled £0.9 million
in FY2005 (FY2004: £0.9 million). This investment is fully written off
in the year in which it is incurred. The Group has applied for
research and development tax credits. However, the approval
process for claims has proved extremely drawn out. We remain
confident that our claims are entirely appropriate and are hopeful
of reaching an agreement with the Inland Revenue concerning our
FY2003 claim shortly. We have also made a claim for FY2004 but
have made no provision in the accounts for the credit due for
FY2004, pending agreement of the FY2003 submission.
People 
Lin Johnstone has announced that, due to increased work
commitments, she plans to retire as a non-executive director at 
the annual general meeting, after three years involvement with 
the Group. We are extremely grateful to Lin for her contribution 
and I would like to wish her all the best in her future endeavours. 
The continued improved financial performance of the Group 
is a testament to the reputation of our staff for both their 
technical expertise and responsiveness to customer requirements.
The stability in our workforce is a prime factor in our success. To
achieve these results in the current environment is a reflection of
this stability and has required both flexibility and commitment from
our staff. These challenging times have created many pressures, in
spite of which our team has continued to exceed our expectations
time after time. I thank all of them for their continued commitment
to Focus and for their achievements and enthusiasm. 
Outlook
Focus is well positioned within the UK retail financial services
markets where significant changes in regulation and distribution
models continue to drive demand for our propositions and
products. Our strong customer base and innovative XML
technology solutions provide a strong basis for long term,
sustained, growth. We believe that global strategic partnerships
offer a significant opportunity to increase sales of our technology
outside of the UK financial services market and will continue to
commit resources to grow sales through these channels. We have
enjoyed our most successful year yet, and are in good shape to
continue to improve our financial performance and increase 
growth next year. 
Chairman’s STATEMENT
Alastair M Taylor  Chairman
24215 Pre 1  6/21/05  12:23 PM  Page 6 Focus Solutions Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7
Flexible Gateway for Managing Relationships 
with Financial Intermediaries
Prudential is aggressively targeting the fast-expanding 20,000-strong 
UK financial advisor market with a range of solutions. Until recently though,
the company was relying on a fragmented technology platform to support
this important user community. Although there was a multi-channel strategy
in place, the information that Prudential needed to effectively serve financial
advisors lay across multiple separate systems.
With these challenges in focus, Prudential turned to BEA Systems and Focus
Solutions. Prudential had already deployed the BEA WebLogic
TM
Server and
BEA WebLogic Portal to create an industrial-strength application
infrastructure for its call centre applications and was using Focus’
goal:technology, an XML development tool, to build and deploy electronic
life, pensions and investment applications for the industry portals. The
combined solution created an integrated offering to provide a true end-to-end
solution for Prudential. 
“Providing Advisers with the capability to trade electronically with Prudential is
key to our distribution strategy.  Using Focus’ technology will enable us to reuse
our e-commerce solutions across multiple channels including the IFA portals 
and – pruadviser.co.uk reducing our maintenance costs and centralising content 
and change control. ”
Jon Cross, Jon Cross, Jon Cross, 
Head of eBusiness, Prudential UK Head of eBusiness, Prudential UK Head of eBusiness, Prudential UK
Partnerships IN FOCUS
24215 Pre 1  6/21/05  3:17 PM  Page 7
