 Introduction
I am pleased to be able to report on another
successful year for the group, with record
sales revenues and operating profit. The
group continues to make good progress
towards executing its strategy and these
results represent further evidence of the
improving performance of the business.
During the year we started work on
developing our new whole of office 
solution for the UK financial services market;
focus:360°. This development programme is 
a significant investment for the group and
when completed will give Focus the leading
end-to-end solution in the market. We expect
focus:360° to deliver further strong organic
growth at attractive margins.
Operations
In the Chief Executive’s Report there is a
more detailed review of our activities in the
year. However, I would like to draw your
attention to the significant progress made in
the year, with the development and delivery 
of new solutions to AEGON Scottish Equitable
and substantial progress being made on
Phase One of the HSBC Bank plc multi
channel Point of Sale (“POS”) solution. The
significant investment in focus:360° is already
beginning to deliver benefits, with market
interest in the new product exceeding our
expectations.
Uncertainty in the financial markets certainly
had an impact on demand for part of the
year. However, the impact was short-lived and
the underlying requirement for our customer
base to comply with regulatory requirements
at all times, irrespective of short term market
conditions, ensured that there was no
sustained impact on our performance. In 
the final quarter of the year, contracts were
won with Home of Choice and TietoEnator
and we have started work on a number of
other projects with new customers since 
the year end.
Management and staff
As a technology-based company, with strong
domain knowledge of the markets we serve,
our success is very dependent upon retaining
a highly skilled and motivated workforce.
I would like to express my thanks
to all our employees for
their efforts over the
past year. The enthusiasm, commitment and
loyalty of our staff remain vital if the group 
is to deliver on its strategy.
Outlook
The new financial year has started strongly
and trading remains in line with market
expectations. We continue to focus our sales
efforts on well defined opportunities within the
wider UK financial services market. Following
the launch of focus:360° it is apparent that we
are in a leading position in our market and it
has helped to give the group its strongest
ever pipeline of opportunities. With the
delivery of Phase One of the HSBC Point of
Sale solution due in the first half of the new
financial year and with work on Phase Two
having already started, we are confident that
the group can continue to make progress and
flourish during the new financial year.
As has been previously outlined, the group
has a clear strategy for both organic and non-
organic growth and the Board is looking to
accelerate the development of its business by
a combination of partnerships, joint ventures
and acquisitions.
Last year, we stated our intention to pay an
initial dividend this year. We have started 
the process of applying to the court for the
cancellation of share premium account which
will in turn make it possible to pay a dividend.
It remains our intention to pay a dividend
once this process is completed.
Alastair M Taylor
Chairman
Focus Solutions Group plc 
chairman’s statement
Alastair M Taylor
Chairman
77347 pre  30/6/08  19:53  Page 4 the expert
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
AEGON Scottish Equitable
Dave Upton, Financial Services Product Director
Dave Upton joined Focus in December 2007 as
Financial Services Product Director.  His primary role
will be to spearhead the design, development and
strategy of Focus’ new proposition – focus:360
o
-
‘Whole Office’ and ‘Extranet’ solutions.  
Dave has nearly 20 years of financial services
intermediary software experience shaping, designing
and delivering solutions to many of the market’s
leading distributors.  Dave joins Focus from Redland
Business Solutions, where he was an Associate and
has previously worked for Sirius FS. 
Providing advisers with the capability for electronic transactions is
increasingly important, and can really make life easier for advisers.
This is the first phase of a wider project to develop the service to advisers
and roll out the system within other areas of AEGON. Focus’ reputation for
delivering flexible, efficient and effective ecommerce solutions combined
with their industry knowledge made them our preferred technology
partner. The new proposition will enable us to develop our brand and
distribution strategy whilst supporting our vision for growth.
David Aaron, Communications Manager (Investment Products)
at AEGON Scottish Equitable
In November 2007, AEGON Scottish Equitable
approached Focus to develop an intermediary
adviser extranet service for use with its
guaranteed onshore bond - ‘Investment Control’. 
The extranet service will enable advisers to
complete applications more quickly and
efficiently either directly or via multiple
distribution channels with industry portals
including The Exchange and leading Network
portals including Positive Solutions. The service
also provides facilities to internal & branch
users, enabling them to assist the adviser
through the process, with features such as
special deals and approvals. Supporting both
online and offline business, the extranet has
been developed from adviser feedback to
meet the demands of today’s adviser business
models.  
This development forms part of a wider project
to redevelop AEGON’s corporate extranet
service in line with new branding requirements
and an overall consolidation of existing IT
platforms helping to reduce the overall cost
of new business whilst enhancing the service to
advisers. The platform has the potential to be
easily extended into other product areas whilst
providing AEGON with the ability to self-maintain
the solution to help reduce the overall cost of
ownership and increase the speed of change.  
The benefits of the new solution are numerous:- 
● a faster, more efficient service by which
advisers can conduct business
● straight through processing model ensures
all data is transferred to their back office
systems without any manual intervention
● decreased costs associated with customer
acquisition
● better relations with AEGON’s advisers,
whilst improving the customer experience 
casestudy
77347 pre  30/6/08  19:53  Page 5
