 chief executive’s report
Focus Solutions Group plc 
Overview
The group continues to develop and execute
on its stated strategy. Its reputation with its
key customers is outstanding and the quality,
expertise and commitment of its employees
have been the foundation upon which the
improved trading has been built. With the
launch of focus:360°, the opportunities
available to us within our market should 
grow, allowing us to build a highly successful
and sustainable business. However, there 
is much more to be done to bring direction
and momentum to all parts of the group’s
business and to build upon the progress
made last year. It is important that we 
remain ambitious and focused on 
achieving our goals.
Business performance
The group again achieved record sales and
profits in FY2008. Turnover increased by 9%
from £7.91 million in FY2007 to £8.60 million
in FY2008. This growth was driven principally
through services provided to HSBC Bank plc
but also by a combination of new projects 
for both new clients and our established
customer base. At the trading level, operating
profits before exceptional costs increased
from £1.20 million to £1.46 million.
Basic and diluted earnings per share for 
the year ended 31 March 2008 were 6.71
pence per share and 5.99 pence per share,
compared with 5.46 pence for basic and 
5.22 pence for fully diluted earnings per 
share for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Our preferred measure of earnings per share,
which excludes the impact of the recognition
of tax losses which arose in the initial 
stages of the company’s development, is 
pre-deferred tax adjusted EPS. Using this
measure, ‘adjusted’ basic EPS have increased
to 4.75 pence from 3.82 pence last year and
‘adjusted’ fully diluted EPS have increased to
4.24 pence from 3.72 pence.
As at 31 March 2008, cash deposits totalled
£1.03 million (FY2007: £3.01 million) reflecting
both the reversal of advanced payments from
a customer noted in our FY2007 results and
the timing of sales in FY2008 which were
particularly strong in the final quarter. The
group also has unused bank facilities totalling
£0.5 million should we require them. The
balance sheet remains debt free.
Markets
The uncertainty in the financial markets during
the second half of the financial year made
market conditions more difficult for a period.
However, the impact appears to have been
short-lived and we believe that a combination
of our new focus:360° product suite and the
overriding requirement of our customers to
remain compliant with ever more regulation
will continue to ensure that the markets in
which we operate (predominantly the supply
of front office solutions to the UK life and
pensions and mortgage markets) will continue
to be strong.
To succeed, we must continue to invest 
in development and to integrate new
technologies into our applications in order 
to extend our product offering. Accordingly,
in early FY2008, work began on the
development of the next generation of
software solutions, with the development 
of focus:360°, a whole office solution for
financial services distributors, lenders,
bancassurers and providers. focus:360°
covers the key processes of Point of Sale and
Extranet technology through to Sales Support
and Back Office functionality.
The development of focus:360°, together with
the development of successful partnerships
with other suppliers to the UK financial
services industry ensures that Focus offers a
unique and innovative whole of office solution
supporting all sales processes from High 
Net Worth to Execution only. It would be
impractical for Focus to seek to develop every
element of a possible whole of office solution
itself; it is important to be able to offer a “best
of breed” option. To this end we have formed
partnership relationships with Redland
Business Solutions, Towers Perrin, Trigold 
and Assureweb amongst others.
The majority of our revenue during the year
has again been generated by delivering
online and offline POS solutions and Extranets
to UK financial services companies to help
them comply with regulatory requirements,
improve their efficiency and reduce the cost
of the sales process.
Richard Stevenson
Chief Executive
77347 pre  30/6/08  19:53  Page 6 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
casestudy
Lincoln Financial Group
the expert Chris Pitt, Lead Business Consultant
Chris is the Lead Business Consultant working within the
‘Sales Response Unit’ for focus:360°. He is responsible
for providing consultancy services to customers and
owning the solution vision through pre-sales into
delivery, working closely with our customers in
developing their strategy and vision for their sales
process.  
Chris is a highly experienced Financial Services
professional with over 20 years experience in the
industry.  He has worked as both a consultant to, and a
senior manager for, some of the UK’s largest Financial
Services organisations directing and managing a variety
of business operations and initiatives.
Improving our service to intermediaries is key to Lincoln and we
believe this solution provides time and efficiency benefits for our
clients. We selected Focus’ technology as it met our business
requirements and priorities for a robust and flexible automated
solution that would provide straight through processing and would
provide an enhanced service to our customers.
David Willis, IT and Strategic Change Director
from Lincoln Financial Group
Following an initial consultancy contract with
Lincoln Financial Group in 2006, Focus Solutions
was awarded a contract for the development
of an intermediary extranet service for their
Lincoln i2Live products for the retirement
planning market.  
Lincoln required a solution that would improve
the adviser experience, be simple and easy 
to use and would be easy to integrate into
existing systems. The service will provide support
for financial advisers selling and servicing
financial services products.
The intermediary solution enables Lincoln to
provide advisers with an online browser based
application, which showcases the product 
set and the ease of illustrating a fully flexible
retirement plan. Through the Lincoln adviser
website, www.lincoln-ifa.co.uk, advisers are
able to generate bespoke illustrations online
of pension products for their clients including
i2Live Accumulator, i2Live Drawdown and
i2Live Annuity.
The solution will include an extranet framework
that utilises Focus’ core components such as 
a case management facility, illustration data
capture and integration to a pre-sales quotation
engine provided by DSTiPAS (Pensions Actuarial
Service). Future enhancements will improve the
service for both the adviser and Lincoln internal
administration, enabling them to track transfer
payments, obtain valuations and re-assign 
cases electronically.
Focus’ innovative front office solutions have
enabled Lincoln to take advantage of the
changing retirement planning market in the UK,
which will facilitate the development of closer
relationships with their intermediaries through
business process automation. 
77347 pre  30/6/08  19:53  Page 7 8
chief executive’s report continued
Focus Solutions Group plc 
Our solutions support the customer facing,
front office elements of the sales process,
as well as the sales support tools and back
office functionality for advisers and
administrators, providing management
information, compliance checking and
utilising reporting tools to comply with FSA
regulation. The leading bancassurers,
providers, distributors and lenders continue to
look to deliver new products ever more
quickly and with greater cost efficiency. In
recent years, changes in regulation have
driven investment in technology to support 
the new distribution models that have begun
to evolve. We see no reason for this to
change; compliance is not an optional 
choice for the financial services industry.
FY2008 was essentially a year of
consolidation for Focus; with progress on the
development and delivery of Phase One of
HSBC’s multi-tie distribution channel for 
life, pensions and investment products,
accompanied by the delivery of major Point 
of Sale solutions and Extranets for Lincoln
Financial Group, AEGON Scottish Equitable
and others. However, the most significant
events from a trading perspective occurred
towards the end of the financial year,
when we were awarded a contract for the
start of Phase Two of HSBC’s multi-tie
distribution channel for life, pensions and
investment products.
Leveraging value from existing customers has
played an important role in Focus’ strategy
and in November, Focus extended its contract
with AEGON Scottish Equitable to develop an
Extranet service that will support the sale of
their suite of Investment Bond products to the
UK intermediary market. The Extranet service
will enable advisers to quote and transact
business electronically whilst tracking the
case through to completion with a high
degree of data pre-population which can be
accessed via multiple distribution channels
from the industry portals such as The
Exchange to leading Network portals such 
as Positive Solutions.
Development
It is essential for the future prosperity of the
group that we continue to invest in product
development. Our technology is one of the
clear differentiators between us and our
competition. Combining this technology with
our business process knowledge and delivery
expertise puts us in a strong position to 
win new business. The development of the
focus:360° whole of office solution aimed 
at lenders, bancassurers, distributors and
providers is integral to the success of
the group.
Strategy
Our goals are clear:
● We want to increase new business wins
and continue to be recognised as the
leading provider of front office solutions 
to the UK financial services markets
● We want to strengthen our position in 
the mid and back office. It is the group’s
strong position in the UK financial 
services sector that underpins its 
growth and profitability
● We intend to increase our penetration of
both the life and pensions and mortgage
market by exploiting our expertise in 
these sectors to make the most of the
continuing structural changes in the
market as a result of the regulatory
environment and increased competition 
● Over the next two to three years, we intend
to increase the proportion of our turnover
that is represented by annually recurring
revenues. focus:360° is designed to be
sold on a per user per month basis, and 
is central to the achievement of this
objective 
We recognise that in today’s market, Focus
must grow faster to build a sustainable
business. A central tenet of this strategy is 
to consider potential acquisitions which will
strengthen our product and market coverage
in the front office. Our strategy is based on
extending our strong position in the front
office space from life and pensions and
mortgages into other associated verticals,
thereby extending our product portfolio,
expanding our client base and bringing
added value to our customer base. This 
will be achieved by a combination of internal
development and acquisition. We spent 
some time and effort on trying to complete 
a number of transactions in FY2008.
Unfortunately, the volatile financial markets in
the middle of the year frustrated these efforts.
Nevertheless, the strategy remains sound and
we will endeavour to execute on it in FY2009.
We aim to deliver much more than just
technology. Our objective is to understand
fully our customers’ business processes 
and to deliver significant added value to 
our customers by developing solutions 
that dramatically reduce their costs and
enhance their ability to adapt to changes 
in their markets.
We have a good story to tell. We provide our
staff with a positive working environment, a
strong work ethos and competitive salaries
and associated benefits. We have a very clear
focus on key markets and we have developed
a profitable and cash generative business.
We have taken a further step forward over the
past year. These results are testament to the
improvements made by the business and to
the efforts of all our employees.
Outlook
The new financial year has started well and 
in line with management expectations. We
look forward to continuing to execute the
established strategy and to continue to
develop a successful, consistently growing,
profitable and cash generative business.
Richard Stevenson
Chief Executive
16 June 2008
77347 pre  30/6/08  19:53  Page 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9
Darren is the Product Development Manager and
lead Technical Architect responsible for the design,
development and delivery of the focus:technology
product suite and our new focus:360
o
propositions.
His role frequently involves him demonstrating and
evangelising focus’ technology in key sales situations.
Darren has over 17 years experience in software
engineering both here and in the USA, and has spent
9 years at Focus working on its core technologies.
Darren’s skills include analysis and design using UML,
relational database design, SQL, Microsoft C# .NET, SOA
and Web Services with a particular expertise in XML,
XML Schema, XPath and XSLT.
the expert Darren Harding,
Product Development Manager 
We have taken a further step forward over the past year. These
results are testament to the improvements made by the business
and to the efforts of all our employees. The new financial year has
started well and in line with management expectations. We look
forward to continuing to execute the established strategy and to
continue to develop a successful, consistently growing, profitable
and cash generative business.
Richard Stevenson, Chief Executive,
Focus Solutions Group plc
Integrated Thinking, Integrated Solutions
Focus’ understanding of the financial services
market is second to none. Focus’ unique
approach is based upon a wealth of industry
experience and domain knowledge. Our
people make the difference to our customer
implementations and the Focus team are 
all highly experienced professionals. In short, 
our people understand the challenges our
customers are likely to face in delivering
complex IT solutions.  
To deliver real benefit to our customers and
drive optimisation of the financial advice
process, Focus takes a consultative led
approach to solution development. From new
start up organisations to long established
institutions, Focus has a breadth of experience
of delivering sales process automation solutions
that can genuinely deliver straight through
processing and the associated benefits. 
We drive transformational innovation within our
customers, delivering solutions that are relevant 
to the market, innovative and successful.
Intelligence gathered from the market and
from implementations within our customer base
of leading financial institutions is objectively
assessed and feeds back into the solution
design, ensuring success.  
We deliver much more than just technology.
Our objective is to fully understand our
customers’ business processes and needs to
deliver significant added value to our clients by
developing solutions that dramatically reduce
their costs and enhance their ability to adapt
to changes in their markets across multiple
distribution channels. 
Working with Focus enables our clients to
achieve their vision – Integrated Thinking, 
Integrated Solutions.  
77347 pre  30/6/08  19:53  Page 9
