 08
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
business review
chief executive’s report
Overview
The Group continues to develop and execute on its stated 
strategy of building the business through expanding our 
products and geographic markets. We have further invested 
in our focus:360° product suite and have evolved the platform 
into several distinct versions, which should see us attracting 
significant opportunities throughout the year. We have also 
drawn on our years of experience of working with global retail 
banks on change programmes for multi-channel distribution 
and wealth management to develop a truly unique proposition  
for the larger retail banks. With the current scrutiny on this 
sector and the need to demonstrate compliance and risk 
management, we believe we have a compelling offering to 
meet their requirements.
We pride ourselves on our strong reputation with our key 
customers and this is underpinned by our delivery successes 
this year. We continue to attract and retain the highest quality 
individuals to our team.
Business performance 
The Group again achieved record sales and profits in 
FY2009. Turnover increased by 12% from £8.60 million in 
FY2008 to £9.60 million in FY2009. This growth was driven 
principally through services provided to HSBC Bank plc and 
other established customers but also by revenues generated 
from focus:360º, following its launch in May 2008. At the 
trading level, operating profits before exceptional costs 
increased by 17% from £1.46 million to £1.71 million. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended  
31 March 2009 were 5.85 pence per share and 5.26 pence 
per share respectively, compared with 6.71 pence for basic 
and 5.99 pence for fully diluted earnings per share for the 
year ended 31 March 2008. Our preferred measure of 
earnings per share, which excludes the impact of the 
recognition of tax losses which arose in the initial stages of 
the company’s development, is pre-deferred tax adjusted 
EPS. Using this measure, “adjusted” basic EPS have 
increased to 6.03 pence from 4.75 pence last year and 
“adjusted” fully diluted EPS have increased to 5.43 pence 
from 4.24 pence.
As at 31 March 2009, cash deposits totalled £4.00 million 
(FY2008: £1.03 million). The Group also has unused bank 
facilities totalling £0.75 million should we require them.  
The balance sheet remains debt free.
Markets
Through focus:enterprise and our focus:360° product suite, 
we have compelling propositions for each of our core markets; 
global retail banks, wealth managers, the largest IFAs and life 
& pension providers. We also have a clear understanding of 
the drivers and issues facing these organisations and have 
tailored our solutions to fulfil those requirements.
strategic objectives
become the vendor of choice for  ´
multi-channel product distribution 
projects for global retail banks
increase penetration within the  ´
wealth management market, both 
within the UK and Europe
successfully lead the market on  ´
“direct to consumer” propositions
increase percentage of turnover  ´
from annually recurring revenue
Richard Stevenson chief executive 09
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
“Through focus:enterprise and our 
focus:360° product suite we have 
compelling propositions for each  
of our core markets.”
Largest IFAs
Within the IFA market, we have seen 
numerous challenges for organisations, 
following the latest regulation from the 
FSA. The RDR requires IFA firms to 
increase their level of professionalism 
by moving to a fee-based system, 
away from commission led practices, 
and also by increasing their level of 
qualifications. The former means that 
organisations will need new systems  
to support this change and the latter 
increases the need for training and 
testing capabilities. Through our 
focus:360° products and the 
capabilities of The Coaching  
Platform, we are well placed to  
assist IFAs with these challenges.
Life & pension providers
Another key market for us, life & pension 
providers, has also been affected by 
the FSA’s latest regulation as it is driving 
them to consider new distribution 
channels beyond that of the traditional 
IFA channel. Equally, in the current 
economic climate they are looking at 
ways of reducing cost and increasing 
speed to market for new products in 
order to remain competitive. 
HSBC – case study
Overview
One of the most important parts of wealth management is 
the advised sales process. The system in place at HSBC 
was reaching the end of its useful lifespan. It was a 17 year 
old DOS-based system that was completely standalone 
and did not integrate with other customer data. HSBC  
set about looking to replace their previous system with  
the objectives of integrating the new solution with other 
systems to allow the pre-population of data and enabling 
multiple customer segments and financial products to be 
supported from the same solution.
Focus was selected to help HSBC to deliver the  
project, based on our previous in-depth experience  
of implementing enterprise financial planning projects  
in the UK regulated market.
Objectives
full support for the advised sale of all financial products  ´
including investments, pensions, protection, mortgage 
and general insurance
ability to address multiple customer segments from the  ´
same solution
pre-population of client data from external sources and  ´
HSBC’s internal systems
Benefits
increase in the number of advised interviews conducted  ´
by staff
growth in sales for bank products ´
improved efficiency for all internal staff through the  ´
integration with other systems
enhanced service offering to customers through a fuller  ´
financial review capability
support for mobile working through off-line capability ´
“Developing a new multi-channel point of sale 
solution is a major project for the bank and  
we needed a technology that would meet our 
requirements to develop and deliver a flexible 
solution to market on time, to maintain our 
competitive edge. Focus has successfully 
demonstrated their knowledge and business 
expertise providing front end solutions that  
add real benefit to the organisation.”
Helen Roberts, Business Programme Manager, 
HSBC Bank plc
Our focus:360° life & pension extranet 
product enables life & pension 
providers to implement a single 
platform for all their different 
distribution channels, avoiding  
costly individual solutions. To date,  
we have won business with Ax A 
Winterthur and Scottish Widows to  
help define and shape their business 
requirements to replace their existing 
intermediary extranet services.
Wealth managers
Our move to focus on the wealth 
management market has been driven 
by the increase in the number of  
wealth management firms as more 
organisations look to service the needs 
of HNWIs in order to generate more 
profitable business. In addition, we 
have found that wealth management 
firms are now looking at how they can 
differentiate the level of service they 
provide to their clients in order to 
remain competitive and are exploring 
financial planning capabilities to help 
them achieve this. We have also seen 
this trend transcend geographical 
borders, making the market even more 
attractive. To date, we have had great 
success with our wealth management 
product, with contract wins with 
Towergate for £0.8m and a major  
UK bank for £1.7m.
Retail banks
The retail banking sector is probably 
under the most scrutiny in relation  
to compliant adviser processes, 
presenting a single understanding of 
the client and treating customers fairly. 
Due to the scale of the business and 
the inherent legacy systems, retail 
banks are being forced to look at 
technology as the only solution to  
solve these issues. We have the  
ability to help all banks address these 
challenges, with focus:enterprise for 
tier 1 global retail banks who require  
a solution tailored to their individual 
requirements and focus:360° multi-
channel distribution for banks looking 
for an “out of the box” solution with 
supporting services.
We continue to lead the market in  
this sector, evidenced by our further 
contract wins with HSBC worth  
£5.7 million to develop a large-scale, 
multi-channel point of sale system. 10
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
business review
Partners
It would be impractical for Focus to seek to develop every 
element of a possible multi-channel distribution solution itself;  
it is important to be able to offer a ‘best of breed’ option. To  
this end we have formed partnerships with Tieto and Unisys.
Development
It is essential for the future prosperity of the Group that we 
continue to invest in product development. Our technology  
is one of the clear differentiators between us and our 
competition. Combining this technology with our business 
process knowledge and delivery expertise puts us in a strong 
position to win new business.
We have a clearly defined road map for our focus:360° 
product suite built on detailed market research and client 
demand, and delivering in line with this is integral to the 
success of the Group.
Strategy
Our strategic goals are clear:
we want to become the vendor of choice for multi-channel  ´
product distribution projects for global retail banks. 
Through our years of experience in the financial services 
industry and recent achievements with HSBC, we have 
developed a unique service to assist the largest global 
banks with their multi-channel distribution and/or wealth 
management transformation programmes. The knowledge, 
expertise and technology capability behind 
focus:enterprise is unrivalled globally.
we intend to increase our penetration of the wealth  ´
management market, both within the UK and Europe.  
The wealth management sector is undergoing significant 
change presenting lucrative opportunities. We are well 
positioned with our product and team to maximise these.
we aim to lead the market in “direct to consumer”  ´
propositions. Through extensive market research and close 
client relationships, we are in a strong position to shape the 
thinking of the industry on how to deliver simple financial 
products direct to the consumer. This will strongly underpin 
the success of our focus:360° consumer product.
we intend to enter the mid market for distribution solutions  ´
through an Application Service Provider (“ASP”) model to 
service organisations with fewer than 50 users.
over the next two to three years we intend to increase the  ´
level of our turnover arising from annually recurring licence 
and support revenues. focus:360° is designed to be sold 
on a per user per annum basis and is central to 
achievement of this objective.
chief executive’s report continued 11
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
We recognise that in today’s market, 
Focus Solutions must develop greater 
scale. A central tenet of this strategy  
is to consider potential acquisitions 
which will strengthen our product  
and market coverage.
We are already reaping the benefits  
of our acquisition of The Coaching 
Platform which has broadened the 
overall service offering we have for the 
financial services industry by providing 
training and competency capabilities. 
Moving forward, our strategy will be 
based on extending our strong position 
of delivering multi-channel distribution 
solutions from life and pensions and 
mortgages into other associated 
verticals, thereby extending our 
product portfolio, expanding our  
client base and bringing added  
value to our customer base.
However, Focus is not just about 
developing leading technology. We  
are committed to providing our clients 
with a wealth of industry knowledge, 
experience and insight through 
real-world practitioners. We have  
an in-depth understanding of both  
our clients’ business and technical 
processes so we can assist them  
at every stage of their project and  
help them to develop solutions that 
dramatically reduce their costs and 
enable them to adapt to regulatory 
changes in the market.
Focus is well positioned in the  
financial services industry; we have 
competitively rewarded, talented 
individuals who have extensive industry 
knowledge and practical experience of 
implementing multi-channel distribution 
solutions into the largest players in the 
market. We have a very clear focus on 
key markets and have developed a 
profitable and cash generative business.
Outlook
We are seeing general economic 
conditions not known for a generation  
in the UK. This makes predictions  
on prospects for the future difficult. 
However, the new financial year has 
started positively and in line with 
management expectations. We look 
forward to continuing to execute the 
established strategy and further develop 
a successful, consistently growing, 
profitable and cash generative business.
Richard J Stevenson
Chief Executive
9 June 2009
“Focus is not just about 
developing leading technology .  
We are committed to providing  
our clients with a wealth  
of industry knowledge,  
experience and insight.”
