 06
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
business review
Alastair Taylor chairman
our key strengths
extensive domain expertise of the  ´
regulated financial services market
agile software products ´
proven project delivery of complex  ´
multi-channel projects
powerful supporting training and  ´
competency capabilities
Introduction
I am pleased to be able to report on another successful year 
for the Group, with record sales revenues and operating 
profit. The Group continues to make excellent progress and 
these results represent further evidence of the improving 
performance of the business. We have entered the new 
financial year with a market-leading product, a strong pipeline 
and net cash of over £4.0 million.
During the year we have achieved a strong mix of business 
from both new focus:360° customers as well as winning new 
contracts with existing clients such as HSBC, Prudential and 
AxA . Moving forward, in addition to winning business within the 
UK, we will also focus on driving opportunities across Europe. 
To lead our business development effort and to promote 
focus:360° in Europe, we appointed a new sales director for 
wealth management in January. With this strategy, we expect to 
continue to deliver strong organic growth at attractive margins.
Operations
In the Chief Executive’s report there is a more detailed review 
of our activities in the year. However, I would like to draw  
your attention to some significant events for the organisation 
across the 2009 financial year. We successfully launched our 
new product offering, focus:360°, to the market in May 2008 
and achieved significant contract wins with Towergate 
Financial Services, Bank of Ireland Life and the wealth 
management arm of a major UK retail bank.
To address the requirements of the different markets in which 
we operate, we now have several variants of the focus:360º 
technology platform which are proving very successful. To 
date, we have won contracts for:
focus:360º multi-channel distribution with Towergate Financial 
and Bank of Ireland Life
focus:360º wealth management with the wealth management 
arm of a major UK retail bank
focus:360º mortgage extranet with Tieto
We have completed the implementation of Phase One of the 
HSBC multi-channel point of sale solution which has already 
brought significant benefits to the bank. Our success with  
this project has also seen us win further contracts with HSBC 
worth a total of £5.7 million.
In December 2008, we acquired The Coaching Platform,  
a leading training and consultancy organisation. With  
The Coaching Platform, the Group is well placed to assist 
distributors with meeting the professional qualification 
requirements of the FSA’s RDR and complements both  
our focus:enterprise service and focus:360° product suite.
Finally, the Group has increased its number of offices in the 
UK this year, opening one in London in the West End and 
adding an office in Crewe following the acquisition of The 
Coaching Platform. This means we are well placed across  
the country to reach our clients, prospects and partners.
chairman’s statement 07
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2009
Management and staff
As a technology-based company,  
with strong domain knowledge of the 
markets we serve, our success is built 
upon retaining a highly skilled and 
motivated workforce. I would like to 
express my thanks to all our employees 
for their efforts over the past year. The 
enthusiasm, commitment and loyalty  
of our staff remain vital in enabling the 
Group to deliver on its strategy.
During the year, Piers Brooke retired as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Group 
after 8 years. We would like to thank 
him for all his efforts and wise counsel.
We also welcomed Nick Habgood as  
a Non-Executive Director in January 
2009. Nick has brought with him 
significant expertise in investment 
management and providing capital  
for growing companies.
Outlook
The new financial year has started  
well and trading remains in line  
with management expectations.  
We are building a solid pipeline  
of opportunities and following the 
recent RDR regulatory proposals,  
we are seeing increased demand  
for our solutions.
Although we continue to focus our 
sales efforts on the UK and Irish 
markets, we are also exploring 
opportunities in regions outside the 
UK, through strategic partnerships  
and further development of our 
focus:360° wealth management 
solution in particular. 
AXA Winterthur – case study
Overview
As part of an overall exercise to consolidate the new  
Ax A Winterthur Wealth Management brand, Ax A Wealth 
undertook a project to bring together the Ax A Wealth  
and Winterthur IFA extranet sites onto a single platform.  
As part of this process they were keen to understand  
the best way to combine the two sites to maximise the 
benefits of each, as well as to look at improvements to  
their overall IFA extranet offering. To this end, Ax A Wealth 
commissioned Focus, based on their extensive knowledge 
of extranet platforms and strong relationships with the IFA 
community, to conduct a consultancy exercise on their 
existing extranet services.
Objectives
gain an independent and objective view of the strengths  ´
and weaknesses of the current Ax A and Winterthur 
extranet sites
understand how to make the single extranet platform  ´
more attractive to advisers
understand how to encourage more business to be  ´
submitted electronically via the new single extranet
Methodology
To achieve the aims of this project Focus undertook  
the following:
filmed interviews with different IFA firms to ascertain  ´
in-depth, qualitative views from advisers in each of the 
segments being targeted by Ax A Winterthur
a detailed consultancy report highlighting the strengths  ´
and weaknesses of the existing Ax A and Winterthur 
extranet platforms based on user feedback and Focus’ 
extensive extranet experience
a proof of concept to illustrate how Ax A Winterthur could  ´
address the key issues raised by the interviewed 
advisers and those outlined in the consultancy report
Benefits
real user feedback on the strengths and weaknesses   ´
of each of the extranet sites
clear priorities for Ax A Winterthur’s e-commerce  ´
roadmap for the next 12 months
insight into how the Ax A and Winterthur extranet sites  ´
compared to that of the competition
overview of the latest online tools and functionality  ´
required by end users
“We appointed Focus to complete an evaluation  
of our respective IFA extranet offerings to help  
get an independent view to feed into our overall 
e-commerce roadmap and priorities for the next  
12 months. This proved to be a really useful exercise, 
helping to position the shortcomings internally and 
the areas in which we needed to invest to drive more 
e-volumes and an enhanced customer service 
proposition. The final recommendation report was 
received very favourably by the key stakeholders 
within the Group.” 
Laura Edmunds, Adviser Services Portfolio Manager,  
Ax A Winterthur Wealth Management
As has been previously outlined, the 
Group has a clear strategy for both 
organic and non-organic growth and 
the Board is looking to accelerate  
the development of its business by  
a combination of partnerships, joint 
ventures and acquisitions.
We have previously stated that it is our 
intention to take the steps necessary to 
allow the company to pay a dividend. 
In order to do this, we must apply  
to the court for cancellation of the 
share premium account to create 
distributable reserves. Prior to applying 
for court approval, the shareholders 
will be asked to approve the 
application in a general meeting.
Alastair M Taylor
Chairman 
9 June 2009
“We have entered the new financial year  
with a market-leading product, a strong 
pipeline and net cash of over £4.0 million.”
