 08
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
business review
our key strengths
  extensive domain expertise of the regulated 
financial services market
  market leading software products
  proven project delivery of complex multi-
channel projects
  powerful supporting training and competency 
capabilities
The development of focus:360° over the past two years was 
undertaken to transition the Group from a largely professional 
services business building bespoke solutions for, and 
depending on, a few UK financial services companies,  
to a much more focused, market leading specialist software 
business providing multi-channel distribution solutions on a 
global basis. With this objective, the Group has increased 
high margin, licence revenues, improved visibility of ongoing 
revenues and diversified its customer base. During FY2010, 
the Group made real progress in respect of all these targets. 
Looking forward, the Group will continue to pursue this 
strategy and make further progress on these targets.
The investment in product development, which has been 
substantial over the past two years, will persist as we continue 
to invest in developing market leading products. However, the 
level of this investment has peaked and we expect that this will 
reduce significantly in FY2011 and beyond.
operations
In the Chief Executive’s report there is a more detailed review 
of our activities in the year. However, I would like to draw your 
attention to some of the significant events for the organisation 
over the past year. focus:360° wealth management has 
become the system of choice for large Independent Financial 
Advisers (“IFAs”) and IFA networks looking to implement 
technology that will support their business models post the 
Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”). This is reflected in the 
significant contract wins we have achieved with AWD Chase de 
Vere and Tenet. The contract with Tenet also extends the use 
Focus’ market leading solution to small IFA firms and adviser 
firms, helping the Group to penetrate this market further.
chairman’s statement
Alastair Taylor chairman
introduction
I am pleased to report another successful year 
for the Group, with both operating profits before 
exceptional items and sales revenues being in 
line with market expectations. This has been 
particularly impressive considering the economic 
conditions over the last 18 months and is 
testament to the robust strategy of the Group.
We have entered the new financial year with the 
strongest pipeline in our history and this builds 
on significant contract wins for focus:360° in the 
last six months of FY2010 with Tenet, AWD 
Chase de Vere and Mastek. The Group also 
continues to win business with its existing client 
base such as HSBC, demonstrating the strategic 
importance these blue chip clients place on 
Focus’s software and services.
Moving forward, the contract win with Mastek will 
help underpin the ambitious global growth plans 
we have for the Group over the next financial 
year. Mastek will resell focus:360° across North 
America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions and 
has also become a systems integrator for direct 
engagements with clients outside of the UK, 
providing Focus with scalable resource 
capabilities on a global basis.
  09
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
We continue to deliver large scale 
distribution projects, with both Bank of 
Ireland and the wealth management 
arm of a major UK retail bank going live 
with focus:360° for their advisers in 
FY2010. In addition, during the past 
financial year we completed the 
second phase of HSBC’s multi-channel 
wealth management solution, which 
was rolled out to 400 users within their 
Premier IFA and financial planning 
direct channels. This built on the initial 
deployment of the solution to 1,200 
financial planning managers, 500 
mortgage advisers and 600 premier 
relationships managers and has 
delivered a truly unique multi-channel 
distribution project in the industry. 
At the end of this financial year we 
re-branded The Coaching Platform  
to become part of the overall Focus 
brand and make our Group name 
synonymous with powerful training  
and competency capabilities. These 
capabilities have gone from strength  
to strength since we acquired The 
Coaching Platform in December 2008, 
with the achievement of ‘Accredited 
Training Provider’ from the Chartered 
Institute for Securities and Investment 
(‘CISI’) and our question banks being 
selected by The Chartered Insurance 
Institute (‘CII’) for use by their members.
In November 2009 we were granted  
a patent by the US Patent and 
Trademark Office for electronic forms 
and data verification, covering the 
Group’s innovative suite of highly 
flexible development tools, 
focus:technology. Through achieving 
this US patent, we have provided 
further evidence of the technological 
leadership of the Group as well as 
giving us greater credibility as we  
look to extend our existing successful 
products and services into the  
US market.
Finally, in March 2010, Focus achieved  
a ‘Superior’ rating from the Investors in 
Customers (‘IIC’) for the service 
experience enjoyed by the Group’s 
customers. Our proven delivery track 
record has always been a key asset of 
the organisation and it was heartening to 
see that the Group’s ability to implement 
large scale solutions to the required 
timescales, whilst providing a great 
customer experience, is recognised  
and valued by our customers.
management and staff
As a technology-based company,  
with strong domain knowledge of the 
markets we serve, our success is built 
upon retaining a highly skilled and 
motivated workforce. I would like to 
express my thanks to all our employees 
for their efforts over the past year. The 
enthusiasm, commitment and loyalty of 
our staff remain vital in enabling the 
Group to deliver on its strategy.
During the year we welcomed Ron 
Whatford as a Non-Executive Director. 
Ron previously held several senior 
executive roles across the Lloyds 
Banking Group and has brought to the 
Group a wealth of experience in the 
retail banking industry.
outlook
In addition to continuing our focus  
on the UK enterprise market, we will 
also look to expand our customer base 
by distributing our solutions through 
partners and delivering a Software as 
a Service (‘SaaS’) proposition to 
smaller adviser firms. We are also 
seeing significant opportunities for our 
solutions beyond the United Kingdom 
and Ireland, particularly across Europe 
and in Asia Pacific and it will be a key 
objective of the Group in the year 
ahead to enhance our presence in 
these regions.
As has been previously outlined, the 
Group has a clear strategy for growth 
and the Board is looking to accelerate 
the development of its business by a 
combination of partnerships, joint 
ventures and strategic acquisitions.
During FY2010, the Group successfully 
applied to the court for the cancellation 
of its share premium account, thereby 
creating distributable reserves. This 
will allow the Company to pay a 
dividend to shareholders in the future. 
The Board will continue to keep this 
under constant review.
The new financial year has started  
well and trading remains in line with 
management expectations. We are 
building a solid pipeline across all  
our propositions and we continue  
to see demand being driven by 
regulation, particularly the RDR.
Alastair M Taylor
Chairman 
8 June 2010
“ We have entered the new financial  
year with the strongest pipeline in  
our history.”
