 10
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
business review
chief executive’s report
overview
The Group continues to execute on its stated strategy and 
during the past year we have grown the volume of revenue 
generated through licence sales as well as diversifying our 
customer base by securing contracts with the likes of AWD 
Chase de Vere, Tenet and Mastek. We have also started to 
enjoy some success in expanding the organisation globally, 
beyond our traditional UK and Irish markets. In particular, our 
contract win with Mastek extends the Group’s reach into North 
America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Investment in focus:360° remains a priority of the Group. We 
have continued to invest in developing additional functionality 
to support our target markets with transitioning their business 
models in line with regulatory requirements such as the RDR. 
This regulation will continue to drive demand for focus:360°, 
TestMeOnline and our supporting services over the next few 
years and we expect to attract significant opportunities as the 
deadline for implementation draws nearer.
We see the scrutiny on the global retail banking sector 
continuing throughout this financial year, with increasing 
pressure on banks to demonstrate compliance and risk 
management. We are well placed to assist them with 
achieving these goals, through both focus:360° and our 
focus:enterprise propositions.
As a Group we pride ourselves on our unique offering to  
the financial services sector. Not only do we have a market 
leading solution in focus:360°, we also provide our clients with 
deep domain knowledge of both the market and their internal 
processes and have a proven delivery track record as well as 
powerful training and competency services. We believe this 
set of capabilities is unrivalled in our sector.
business performance
The Group again achieved record revenues and profits before 
tax in FY2010. Turnover increased by 3% from £9.60 million in 
FY2009 to £9.85 million in FY2010. This growth was driven 
principally through increased licence sales of focus:360° 
software, supported by professional service revenues 
provided to HSBC Bank plc and other established customers. 
At the trading level, operating profit before exceptional costs 
increased by 33% from £1.71 million to £2.27 million. 
strategic objectives
  become the vendor of choice for 
multi-channel distribution projects 
for national and global financial 
services organisations
  expand the usage of focus:360°  
to the mid market through 
partnerships
  increase the proportion of revenue 
derived from customers outside the 
UK and Ireland
  increase percentage of turnover 
from licences, transactions and 
other forms of recurring revenue
Richard Stevenson chief executive 11
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 were 
5.29 pence per share and 4.75 pence 
per share, compared with 5.85 pence 
for basic and 5.26 pence for fully 
diluted earnings per share for the year 
ended 31 March 2009. Our preferred 
measure of earnings per share, which 
excludes the impact of the recognition 
of tax losses which arose in the initial 
stages of the Company’s development, 
is pre-deferred tax adjusted EPS. 
Using this measure, ‘adjusted’ basic 
EPS have increased to 6.88 pence 
from 6.03 pence last year and 
‘adjusted’ fully diluted EPS have 
increased to 6.18 pence from  
5.43 pence.
As at 31 March 2010, cash deposits 
totalled £2.40 million (FY2009: £4.00 
million). The Group also has unused 
bank facilities totalling £0.75 million 
should we require them. The balance 
sheet remains debt free.
markets
Through our focus:360° product  
suite, TestMeOnline and our range  
of supporting training and consultancy 
services we have compelling 
propositions for each of our core 
markets: global retail banks, wealth 
managers, building societies, life  
and pension providers and the largest 
IFAs and IFA networks. We also have  
a clear understanding of the drivers 
and issues facing these organisations 
and have tailored our solutions to fulfil 
those requirements.
The key trends and issues being 
experienced across the financial 
services sector are favourable for  
the Group’s strategy and we are  
well positioned to capitalise on the 
opportunities that they present. 
partners
It would be impractical for Focus  
to seek to develop every element  
of a multi-channel distribution solution 
itself; instead it is important for the 
Group to seek out ‘best of breed’ 
partners to provide key components. 
To this end, we have established 
strategic partnerships with Barrie & 
Hibbert, Assureweb and others. 
Partners also play an important part  
in the Group’s expansion strategy, 
particularly in providing scalability 
outside of our traditional markets. Our 
recent partnership with Mastek is an 
excellent example of how Focus is 
working with large industry players  
to secure market share globally. 
“ Our contract win with Mastek extends the 
Group’s reach into North America, Europe 
and Asia Pacific.” 12
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
business review
strategy
Our strategic goals are clear:
  to become the vendor of choice for multi-channel 
distribution projects for global retail banks. Through our 
investment in focus:360° we have developed a solution 
that transforms the experience that banks are able to 
provide to their customers by supporting any channel, 
any sales process, any product and any advice model 
from a single platform. Our solution also enables banks 
to achieve a single view of their customers, allowing 
them to have a consolidated view of any risks  
associated with each client as well as potential ‘up-sell’ 
opportunities. The capability of this solution is unrivalled 
in the retail banking market.
  to expand the usage of our solutions in the mid  
market by delivering a SaaS model through strategic 
partnerships to service organisations with fewer  
than 50 users.
  to establish a presence within the AsiaPac region.  
The increasing number of affluent individuals in the 
AsiaPac region means that this is a key growth region  
for the Group. Our market leading product, focus:360° 
includes the recent innovations we have developed 
around our direct to consumer capabilities making it  
an even more attractive proposition for this market.
  to continue to look to increase the proportion of our 
turnover arising from annually recurring licence and 
support revenues. We have made good progress in  
this respect during the past financial year with 
focus:360° which is designed to be sold on a per  
user per annum basis and is central to continuing  
to deliver this strategic goal.
We recognise that in today’s market, Focus Solutions must 
develop greater scale and our contract win with Mastek will 
provide us with flexible resource capabilities on a global 
basis, enabling us to achieve this. 
The acquisition of The Coaching Platform in late 2008 has 
had a positive impact on the Group and over the past year 
the services provided by our training company have 
become fully integrated within the overall Focus offering. 
We have now re-branded The Coaching Platform under the 
Focus Solutions name and this will see the Group become 
even more synonymous with providing excellent training 
capabilities. It will also add to our combined value 
proposition of market leading multi-channel distribution 
software, in-depth domain knowledge and a tried and 
trusted delivery approach.
Moving forward, one of our strategies will be to extend  
our strong position of delivering multi-channel distribution 
solutions from the financial services sector into other 
verticals, thereby extending our product portfolio, 
expanding our client base and bringing added value  
to our customer base.
Focus is well positioned in the financial services industry; 
we have competitively rewarded, talented individuals  
who have extensive industry knowledge and practical 
experience of implementing multi-channel distribution 
solutions into the largest players in the market. We have 
added training and competency capabilities to this  
expertise so our customers can be assured that they  
have highly skilled staff delivering on their business 
propositions. These qualities combined with our market 
leading technology and a clearly defined strategy mean  
that Focus is at the forefront of software providers in  
our industry. 
chief executive’s report continued 13
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010 13
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
outlook
Despite difficult economic conditions  
in the last 18 months, we are now 
seeing strong improvements in our  
key markets and the new financial year 
has started positively and in line with 
our expectations. We look forward  
to capitalising on the significant 
opportunities that are developing  
for the Group across both new 
geographical regions and new client 
markets, as well as those being driven 
by regulation enabling us to continue  
to develop a successful, consistently 
growing and cash generative business.
Richard J Stevenson
Chief Executive
8 June 2010
“ We look forward to capitalising on the 
significant opportunities that are developing 
for the Group across both new geographical 
regions and new client markets.”
The group has been successfully transitioning the business as follows: 
old business model 
  professional services company 
building bespoke solutions for UK 
financial services companies 
  fixed price or day rate professional 
services 
  high level of dependency  
on HSBC 
  focus on UK and Eire
  direct route to market  
new business model 
  market leading specialist software 
company providing “multi-channel 
distribution solutions” 
  high margin, recurring licence 
revenue
 increasingly diversified customer 
base 
  market leadership – UK and Eire, 
increasingly targeting and winning 
business outside the UK 
  developing channel partners to 
address international 
opportunities 
