 02
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
overview
focus at a glance
our approach
At Focus we adopt a unique position as a software provider 
in the financial services market. We bring together an 
unrivalled set of capabilities to enable organisations to:
 maximise the value of the technology to their business
 increase the speed to market of their new solution 
 mitigate risk across their project
These competencies incorporate:
 an agile multi-channel technology platform
 extensive domain knowledge
 tried and trusted delivery approach
 innovative training capabilities
The financial services world is evolving and forward  
thinking organisations are looking at how to structure their 
businesses to engage most effectively with their customers. 
Equally, consumers want their financial services organisation 
to provide them with choice and convenience, allowing them 
to interact across a range of channels, such as branch, 
internet and mobile, at any time and from any location.
In addition organisations also want to distribute financial 
products across a range of channels, using a single solution 
that allows them to adopt a consistent approach across their 
processes and delivers a single view of their customers.
These key market factors were the drivers behind the 
development of focus:360°, our market leading multi-
channel distribution solution. 03
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
“ focus:360º supports any channel, any sales process, 
any product and any advice model that financial 
services organisations wish to deploy .”
  focus:360° consumer – a consumer facing portal, 
providing an online channel through which clients can 
view their own financial product information and execute 
a guided purchase of simplified products.
  focus:360° life & pension extranet – an agile multi-
channel framework that facilitates electronic trading to 
support new and existing distribution channels.
  focus:360° mortgage extranet – an intermediary and 
consumer mortgage portal enabling mortgages and 
related products to be processed and serviced online.
  TestMeOnline – an innovative training and competency 
(T&C) monitoring solution which is available either as a 
standalone application or integrated within focus:360°.
focus:360°
focus:360° supports any channel, any sales process,  
any product and any advice model that financial services 
organisations wish to deploy, allowing it to be used for a 
variety of sales automation projects from point of sale to 
multi-channel implementations. It also currently addresses 
over 25 client need areas such as maximising pension, 
saving for the future or purchasing a house.
focus:360° incorporates front, middle and back office 
capabilities within a single solution and can be used to 
distribute a wide range of financial products such as 
investments, pensions, protection, mortgages, retirement 
and general insurance. In addition, it can support online 
testing and competency management as part of the overall 
solution through TestMeOnline.
Through our understanding of our key market sectors’ 
requirements we have developed a number of tailored 
versions of focus:360° including:
  focus:360° multi-channel distribution – a leading 
multi-channel sales automation solution which can 
distribute a range of financial products for global 
organisations.
  focus:360° wealth management – a holistic financial 
planning product offering a range of Wealth Management 
functionality to service High Net Worth (“HNW”) clients.
  focus:360° life & pension distribution – a 
straightforward point of sale solution for protection, 
retirement and investment products.
  focus:360° mortgage distribution – a flexible end to 
end mortgage sales processing solution covering 
mortgages, protection and general insurance products. overview
04
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
focus at a glance focus at a glance continued
services
At Focus we believe that when financial services 
organisations are considering a technology change 
programme giving due consideration to processes and 
people as well as minimising the risks associated with 
delivering such a solution is critical to the success of the 
project.
Therefore in addition to focus:360° we provide a range of 
services which encompass all aspects of a multi-channel 
project including:
tried and trusted delivery approach
Our services span the key elements of an implementation 
including:
  methodology – tried and trusted process with 
supporting documents and change management 
systems to minimise risk across the project.
  product consultation – guidance on mapping business 
requirements to our product functionality.
  change management – support with managing change 
across the organisation during the implementation of 
new technology, including developing close relationships 
with individual departments.
  programme management – dedicated expertise to 
manage the different strands and parties across the 
implementation.
  training – user training to ensure the value of the  
system is maximised.
  communications planning – development of an 
integrated communications plan to support effective 
internal and external marketing of new technology.
extensive domain knowledge
Through our in-house industry experts, we not only have an 
unrivalled understanding of the global regulated financial 
services market, but, additionally, have detailed knowledge 
about the internal processes deployed by different financial 
services organisations. This enables us to advise on best 
practice business processes and an effective operating 
model to meet our customers’ objectives, as well as being 
able to audit existing processes and systems for regulatory 
and industry bench-marking purposes.
Our services can be categorised into two distinct areas:
need identification / audit:
  compliance and training & competency (“T&C”) 
audit – evaluation of business processes against 
regulatory and industry standards for compliance 
and T&C.
  IFA extranet audit – assessment of the usability and 
functionality of customer extranet platforms from the 
perspective of both the adviser and best practice 
industry standards. 
  Investor in Customers (“IIC”) audit – understanding of 
how the service provided by our clients is perceived by 
their customers and how this impacts their business.
process optimisation:
  Business Process Optimisation – guidance on the 
most appropriate operating model for an organisation 
and how best to align internal processes to the new 
technology solution.
  production of new compliance and T&C processes 
– advice on how to implement processes to ensure 
compliance with Financial Services Authority  
(“FSA”) regulation. 05
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
our customers and partners
Focus has successfully implemented around 80 sales 
automation projects ranging from complex multi-channel 
installations to individual point of sale solutions. Our clients 
include 8 out of the top 10 UK life & pension providers,  
a number of leading bancassurers including HSBC and 
Barclays, several major distributors and wealth management 
players such as AWD and St. James’s Place, as well as a 
number of mortgage providers.
innovative training capabilities
As well as helping our customers to maximise the use and 
adoption of new technology through our technology training 
services, we also provide people development solutions 
through qualifications and skills training to ensure staff are 
adequately trained to meet the regulatory and business 
needs of the organisation. Our training capabilities support 
our clients from training requirements identification through 
to delivery of courses, materials and evaluation.
  training needs analysis – determines the training  
and development needs of organisations to ensure  
a quantifiable return for their business.
  training design – tailored courses and materials to  
meet the unique requirements of each organisation  
and support in-house training programmes.
  skills training – programmes that enable staff to excel 
in areas such as leadership, selling and presenting.
  qualifications courses – a range of professional 
qualifications to support the personal development 
needs of our clients.
Focus is closely aligned with the major examining bodies so 
you can be confident that our training services and materials 
are of the highest standard. 
Focus prides itself on developing long lasting, mutually 
beneficial partnerships with leading organisations across 
the financial services industry. We have developed strategic 
relationships to ensure we are utilising the most appropriate 
technology within our solutions and that our clients benefit 
from the seamless transfer of data across applications.
Our customers include:
  AEGON Scottish 
Equitable
 Assureweb
 Aviva
 AWD Chase de Vere
 AXA
 Bank of Ireland
 Barclays
  Co-operative Financial 
Services
 HSBC
 Legal and General
 Mastek
 Openwork
 Prudential
 St. James’s Place
 Tenet
Our partners include:
  Assureweb
  Barrie & Hibbert
  Chartered Insurance 
Institute
  Chartered Institute 
of Securities and 
Investments
  Cobent
  Financial Express
  Financial Services Skills 
Council
  IFS School of Finance
  Mastek
  Microsoft
  Tieto
  Trigold
