 overview
06
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
our markets at a glance
global trends in financial services
The financial services industry is constantly exposed to 
change, presenting opportunities and challenges for all 
players within the market. For 2010, the key trends impacting 
our markets are likely to be as follows:
1. regulation
Regulation within the financial services sector is a factor
that needs to be considered by all parties operating in  
the market on an ongoing basis. In addition to the Retail 
Distribution Review (“RDR”), which will require a move  
from commission based to fee based remuneration and  
an increase in professional qualifications as well as clarity  
on the services provided by advisers and financial services 
organisations, market participants will also need to consider 
legislation on risk management and treating consumers fairly.
The RDR will require the following mandatory changes:
  a change in systems used by both advisers and product 
providers to manage fees.
  all advisers will need to hold the Level 4 Diploma 
qualification.
  all advisers will have to review their business models  
to decide whether they are to provide ‘independent’  
or ‘restricted’ advice and clearly outline this to their 
customers.
In addition to the required changes, the RDR is also 
prompting the following trends in the market:
  A move by product providers and retail banks to look  
at distributing products directly to consumers.
  With the introduction of fees, IFA firms are looking at  
how they can serve the more wealthy consumer sectors, 
effectively competing with traditional wealth 
management firms.
New regulations are also expected to tighten capital, liquidity 
and risk management rules and will require banks to: 
  provide a single view of the risk associated with each 
customer. This will require information to be aggregated 
across the differing channels that banks use to 
communicate and distribute products to clients.
how Focus is responding
focus:360° wealth management and focus:360° life & 
pension distribution have been designed to support 
organisations transitioning to a post RDR world. The 
solutions enable adviser firms to devise a full range of 
consumer agreed charging models, including the mandated 
fee-based charging. In addition, both products incorporate 
training and competency as part of the overall solution 
providing functionality to manage advisers training 
programmes to the Level 4 qualification as well as  
ongoing CPD monitoring required post RDR.
Focus can also through our range of training services 
provide skills and professional qualification training courses 
to advisers taking the Level 4 qualification.
Throughout this year we have dedicated a lot of time 
developing our direct to consumer capabilities, working 
alongside major players within the financial services 
industry, and have a selection of innovative concepts to 
assist organisations exploring this channel.
In response to the banks’ requirement to gain a single view 
of their clients’ risk, in order to meet the new legislation on 
risk management, focus:360° as a single platform can 
deliver a holistic view of the customer and can also  
integrate with any internal system to ensure that data  
is pre-populated.
2. meeting the challenge of core systems 
and data integration
Many banks have fragmented systems as a consequence of 
serial mergers and are now appreciating that this may affect 
their ability to integrate and then aggregate data to obtain a 
more comprehensive view of the risks they are managing. In 
addition, they are also aware that they require a more joined 
up view of a customer’s total portfolio of products in order to 
effectively “up” and “cross” sell and develop deeper client 
relationships. Therefore the main priority in 2010 in this area 
is likely to be data integration in the context of large 
infrastructure improvements.
how Focus is responding
As focus:360° multi-channel distribution is a single platform 
supporting several channels, it enables banks to gain a  07
focus solutions group plc  
annual report & accounts 2010
single view of the customer as well as their associated risk 
and provisions, allowing them to meet stringent regulation. 
We have several years’ experience of integrating our 
solutions with banks’ internal systems to ensure non-
duplication of data and have successfully managed multiple 
integrations, across multiple operating systems for some of 
our major bancassurer clients. 
3. how to grow in weak markets
In 2010 it is likely that the industry will see tighter competition 
as organisations such as banks, major distributor firms  
and IFAs look to take market share in the most profitable 
customer segments, particularly the mass-affluent segment, 
which offers a rich source of deposits as well as more 
profitable and less risky customer relationships.
In order to succeed there will need to be a deeper 
understanding of the needs of each segment with a focus on 
adding value and building stronger customer relationships. 
Banks, distributor firms and IFAs are therefore likely to 
focus on:
 their customers’ overall relationships 
 customers’ lifestyle preferences and behaviours
  alternative products, channels and experiences for 
meeting those preferences
how Focus is responding
Our focus:360° multi-channel distribution product can, from 
a single platform, support any channel that an organisation 
wishes to deploy, allowing them to select the most 
appropriate channel mix for their customers’ preferences 
and behaviours. The channels can also be individualised to 
support different brands and experiences, depending on 
how the customer engages with the organisation. focus:360° 
multi-channel distribution supports over 25 client agendas 
and therefore focuses on what the customer is trying to 
achieve, helping organisations to foster deep client 
relationships.
As well as our market leading product, we have also delivered 
solutions to both Bank of Ireland Life and HSBC for their 
mass affluent segments, giving us a wealth of knowledge on 
how to address this growing sector on behalf of our clients.
4. financial planning needs will continue 
to grow globally
Demand for financial services in emerging markets is being 
driven by rapid increase in economic activity, disposable 
income and personal savings. China and India are 
becoming important target markets for our customers as 
they search for growth. To satisfy their ambitions in these 
regions, our customers will need to invest in flexible, 
scalable systems capable of operating across many 
geographical markets and under different regulatory 
regimes. 
how Focus is responding
Focus has identified the Asia-Pacific (“AsiaPac”) region as  
a key target for expansion. In the new financial year, we are 
looking to establish a presence in Hong Kong to support  
our business development efforts in this area. Our software 
assets and supporting services are an excellent fit with  
the requirements of this market and we are already seeing 
significant interest in our products.
5. growing ‘At Retirement’ market
Watson Wyatt research predicts that the ‘At Retirement’ 
market in the UK could grow by more than 60% in the next 
five years to reach £23.1 billion. Figures by the consulting 
firm put the current size of the market at the end of 2008 at  
£14.1 billion. The growth is being driven by the increasing 
number of people approaching retirement in the next five to 
ten years and offers considerable opportunities for product 
providers and financial advisers alike. It is currently an 
enormous growth area underserved by technology and 
hence advisers in this market will be looking for suitable 
solutions to assist with their requirements.
how Focus is responding
We have invested in our focus:360° product suite to ensure 
that it incorporates the functionality that advisers serving  
the ‘At Retirement’ market will need to manage their clients 
requirements in this area, such as access to annuity 
comparison quotes and tools that anticipate hedging 
provision post retirement. The scale at which this market  
is growing will present further opportunities for our software 
as the number of advisers and enquiries expands in line  
with demand.
