 Forbidden Technologies plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 08
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
In last year’s review, I outlined some of the technical 
and market expectations which have been fulfilled since 
the Forbidden Technologies flotation. Forbidden has 
applied its technology in an increasingly focused way 
as part of its plan to create the video platform for the 
internet – FORscene.
Internet video platform
The internet is becoming a major force in video creation 
and distribution. Consider the features to expect in an 
internet video platform:
➜ internet based – accessed through a web browser
➜ no installation – can run on any / every computer
➜ no configuration – easy to get up and running
➜ low cost or free
➜ simple to learn
➜ cross-platform editing – PC, Mac, Linux
➜  cross-platform publishing – Desktop, Mobile phone, 
video iPod
➜ wide in scope:
 – reviewing
 – logging
 – editing
 – web publishing
 – mobile / iPod publishing
 – hosting
➜ available in volume
The year has seen a further expansion of FORscene’s 
web and mobile publishing capability and a major 
acceleration in the internet video editing tool. It will 
come as no surprise that Forbidden’s FORscene meets 
all the criteria above for an internet video platform. 
The professional video market
To appreciate the focus of Forbidden’s market entry 
strategy, it helps to understand the workflow in the 
professional video market.
Video post production processes vary widely between 
productions. Video is shot using video cameras, and is 
generally stored on tape. Some or all of the following 
steps may then be carried out:
➜ ingest – transfer of video into the system
➜  review – look through source material and note what 
is there
➜  log – add transcript / enable shots to be found simply 
during editing
➜  shot selection – select shots / speech which might  
be useful
➜ shot ordering – construct the story
➜  rough cut – order the shots; trim to about the  
right length
➜ possibly re-ingest tape for the offline
➜  offline – make the programme, often at relatively low 
video quality
➜ possible re-ingest tape for the online
➜  online – finish the programme at top video quality  
for broadcast
The strategy has been to introduce FORscene into the 
relatively simple early stages of this process: ingest, 
review and log. As customers discover the benefits of 
our intuitive web based solution, it is simple to move  
up the value chain by just staying on the FORscene 
escalator a bit longer. In the few short months since its 
first broadcast use, FORscene has already moved up  
to shot selection, shot ordering and rough cut.
“ The internet is becoming a major force in video 
creation and distribution. Forbidden’s FORscene 
internet platform is ready for it.” Both FORscene and the global IT infrastructure it runs 
on continue to improve. It is already possible to finish 
entire programmes with FORscene on web and mobile. 
Consumer video – Clesh
Clesh is the consumer interface into the power of 
FORscene, with simplicity of use as the key priority.  
It allows consumers to experience the functionality and 
features of FORscene to edit and share their own video 
and mobile phone footage on the internet, through a 
home PC. The internet is so cheap that we can make 
our consumer version available for free. You can sign  
up for Clesh on our website at http://info.clesh.com/.
As we upgrade the Clesh video library to allow users to 
submit their own content, Clesh will be an increasingly 
attractive one-stop shop for internet video. Higher 
volume users will be able to purchase packages with 
extra features, extra storage, extra views and extra 
editing time, depending on requirements.
Technology
Underlying all Forbidden’s work is its technological strength.
Forbidden’s video compression technology has provided 
a unique codec designed for web-based editing. Control 
of the codec has led to improvements all the way 
through from storyboard editing to web publishing.
Forbidden’s Java player gives almost universal reach  
to Windows, Macs and PCs. The web player, which does 
not require installation, security updates or machine 
configuration, will play automatically on standard 
machines. Forbidden upgrades its Java player to  
meet the evolving needs of the market.
These days, high end mobile phones have internet 
access. Mobile publishing is a key component of 
Forbidden’s armoury.
FORscene is robust, automatically tuning itself to work 
well on a wide range of computer speeds and internet 
connection speeds.
These technical solutions are not easily copied by third 
parties as the expertise required is so specialised and 
has taken a long time to accumulate.
Technology award
FORscene has been recognised in the recent Royal 
Television Society Technology Award, awarded by the 
unanimous decision of the judges.
FORscene is the perfect product for this potentially 
vast and exciting market.
Shareholder offer
This year’s shareholder offer is £1,000 worth of free 
credits. The form is at the back of the annual report 
and accounts.
Regulatory (IFRS)
Forbidden Technologies plc expects to adopt IFRS in the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
The board has begun considering the differences 
between UK accounting standards and IFRS, and have 
identified ‘accounting for development’ costs as an area 
which could impact on the Company’s financial statements 
going forward.
Stephen Streater
Chief Executive
25 April 2006
 
Summary of the Chief Executive’s review
➜ Forbidden is technologically strong
➜ FORscene is a one-stop-shop for internet video
➜ Cheap internet allows us to make Clesh free
Forbidden Technologies plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 09
