 Chairman’s statement
In the year to 31 December 2005, the sixth year of our 
development, the company recorded sales of £59,705 
compared to £76,788 in the previous year. Administrative 
expenses were £874,637 (2004: £787,563) and the loss 
for the year was £725,379 (2004: loss of £614,127).
At the year end the balance sheet showed £957,369  
of net current assets (2004: £1.68 million) and liquid 
resources of £876,919 (2004: £1.61 million).
The lower sales level is a reflection of the change in our 
business model from the licensing of individual copies 
of our compression software to organisations putting 
video onto websites, to the delivery of logging and 
editing solutions to television post production teams.
The increase in administrative expenses was almost 
entirely due to the recruitment of new staff.
The balance sheet reflects the continuing tight control 
which is exercised over all costs in the company.
Strategy
In the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2004 
the board outlined a revised strategy for the company 
and indicated key market sectors upon which Forbidden 
would concentrate:
1. Professional post production
2. Consumer (i.e. in-home) editing and publishing
3. Intruder and fire security
To date these sectors have proven to be an appropriate 
selection. Mobile phone applications which we 
previously identified separately are now an integral  
part of each of our sector offerings. All three of these 
sectors are developed from the same core platform – 
FORscene. All gain from improvements in our dynamic 
R & D activities and our ability to enhance our products 
to meet our partners’ and customers’ individual needs.
The pace of commercialisation in each sector has varied 
through the past year as we have flexed our resource 
allocations to reflect the urgency and immediacy of 
each opportunity, however, the chosen strategic 
sectors remain our focus going forward.
Market place
As predicted, 2005 saw significant growth of the key 
technologies and their market penetration in the UK 
which are critical to the expansion of our business. 
Computers provided much increased storage capacity, 
broadband connections accelerated at a remarkable rate 
to a level today in excess of 10 million homes and the 
typical broadband speed on new computers has gone 
from 512Kbps to around 2Mbps. Broadband costs have 
come down from an average of £20+ per month to the 
latest launch of free broadband 8Mb connection from 
Carphone Warehouse. Picture quality on mobile phones 
has increased significantly. The latest models can now 
capture video at near VHS quality.
All of these developments increase the potential sales 
revenues of the company’s products, since they are the 
pre requisite conditions upon which our research and 
development efforts have been based.
Current activities
Professional post production
The continuing development and refinement of 
FORscene has been our top priority over the past six 
months. It has absorbed a high proportion of our R & D 
effort as interest and involvement of major broadcasters 
and partners has increased month by month throughout 
the various pilots that have been taking place. Individual 
customer needs have been identified and satisfied.
FORscene is a truly revolutionary product in the post 
production process of programme creation and is 
described as ‘disruptive technology’ by experts in the 
“ Our shareholders should begin to see signiﬁcant 
change in the proﬁle of the business.”
Forbidden Technologies plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05 Chairman’s statement continued
industry. In December 2005, Forbidden won the 
Royal Television Society Award for the best 
technology innovation in the post production 
process. The award ceremony was videoed on one 
of the new generation mobile phones, uploaded over 
the air into FORscene, edited and published for web 
and mobile delivery. It can be seen on our website at  
http://www.forbidden.co.uk/videos/rts/.
FORscene provides very high value by saving both 
significant time and money and simplifying life for loggers, 
editors, producers and directors. More detail is provided  
in the Chief Executive’s Review in the next pages.
Post production costs can represent 25% or more of 
total programme costs, and, as the hours shot increase 
for productions (partly driven by lower costs of digital 
footage), so the attraction of significant savings offered 
by FORscene increases. This is a world wide market and 
is worth hundreds of millions of pounds a year.
Another example of the power of the FORscene 
platform is its use by the British Army to publish 
frequent videos, recording an expedition to Mount 
Everest. The videos can be downloaded onto mobile 
phones of interested parties and potential army recruits 
as part of an Army recruitment drive.
FORscene will also be used by IBC TV News at the 
International Broadcasting Convention in Amsterdam 
in September, providing a most appropriate exposure 
of our mobile capability.
Consumer editing and publishing
Clesh is the consumer version of FORscene. You can 
sign up for Clesh at our website at http://info.clesh.com.
The consumer use of video clips is soaring following  
the introduction of internet video sites such as Google 
Video and YouTube, where consumers contribute and 
share their video content.
A site such as YouTube in the USA has grown in twelve 
months to have 40 million video clips per day viewed 
by its members, demonstrating the explosive potential 
of the web as the primary medium for communication.
Clesh was introduced to the UK market in early 2006 
through a promotion with Tiscali, the internet and 
broadband company. Consumers now have access to  
a free, basic account through the Clesh.com website.
Forbidden Technologies plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
Forbidden’s office  constituents to be able to take its place in this explosion:
a)  Simplicity and accessibility: go to the web page and 
Clesh is there.
b)  It is cross-platform: it can be used on PC, mobile or 
video iPod.
c)  The content is generated by the user and consumer: 
the more videos that people put into the system the 
more there is to view.
During the next year the strategic imperative for Clesh is 
to build our customer base by attracting large groups of 
consumers to share their videos across the globe.
Intruder and fire security
In the latter stages of the year, management took  
the decision to focus resources on the immediate 
opportunity for FORscene in the broadcast market 
rather than an intruder and fire security product. 
However, the company intends to use the FORscene 
platform to develop a competitive product in this large 
market, albeit at a somewhat later date than was 
anticipated previously.
Board and staff
During 2005 the board welcomed Phil Madden  
as Finance Director following the retirement of  
Douglas Blaikie. One sales person resigned to relocate 
abroad and two new employees joined the Company.
Our thanks are owed to the dedication, enthusiasm and 
skill of our team in all capacities and it continues to be 
a pleasure to see such good product and service output, 
consistently achieved.
Prospects
In the interim report for 2005 I indicated that the 
company had high confidence in significant sales 
expansion in 2006. This continues to be our view and 
orders in the first quarter are significantly ahead of the 
first six months of the previous year. If our expectations 
of the outcome of the various pilots and projects with 
broadcasters are realised, our shareholders should begin 
to see significant change in the profile of the business.
Victor Steel 
Chairman 
25 April 2006
Forbidden Technologies plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 07
 
Summary of the Chairman’s statement
➜ UK home broadband connections grew to over 10 million
➜ FORscene won Royal Television Society Award in 2005
➜ Clesh begins to develop its customer base for sharing videos
View from Forbidden’s office
