 OUR PERFORMANCE www.alent.com
14
CEO Statement
OVERVIEW 
I am very pleased to deliver my ﬁrst 
report as Chief Executive of Alent plc, 
newly created following the demerger of 
Cookson Group plc in December 2012. 
I believe strongly that the establishment 
of Alent as a stand-alone company will 
beneﬁt our shareholders, our customers 
and our people. The Alent Board and 
management are now singularly focused 
on the Alent business, and free to deploy 
its capital resources in the best interests 
of the newly formed Group. This is a cash 
generative business and we are now able, 
as a stand-alone Company, to deploy 
the cash generated to pay dividends, 
invest organically in capital development, 
complementary technologies and R&D, 
and to begin to consider value adding, 
bolt-on acquisitions. We look forward 
to demonstrating the strength of our 
business and the opportunities we have 
for proﬁtable growth. I’d like to take this 
opportunity to thank each and every one 
of Alent’s 2,600 people across the globe 
for a job well done in 2012 and for setting 
Alent on a strong foundation for further 
growth and proﬁtability improvement in 
2013 and beyond.
ALENT
Alent is a leading supplier of advanced, 
consumable specialty chemicals and 
engineered materials used primarily in 
the electronics, automotive and industrial 
end-market segments. We offer our 
customers customised products that in 
many cases are speciﬁcally designed to 
solve an individual customer’s production 
problem, or to enable a customer to build 
its next generation products at acceptable 
yields, throughput and reliability. Our 
ability to quickly develop solutions for our 
customer’s problem can often result in 
Alent being the customer’s preferred and 
trusted source of supply, differentiating 
us from our competitors. We deliver our 
products on a “just in time” basis from a 
global manufacturing base of 23 facilities 
located around the world. We have long-
standing relationships with our customers 
and we have a deep understanding of 
their manufacturing processes and future 
material needs.
KEY STRENGTHS AND CAPABILITIES
Alent is a market and technology leader 
across its targeted end-market segments. 
We are innovative with a clear focus on 
customer demands. Further sustainable 
revenue and margin growth will be driven 
by underlying industry megatrends in 
electronics, as well as in automotive, 
industrial and emerging applications such 
as LEDs and photovoltaics. We will also 
build on our already well-established 
footprint in key developing markets such as 
China, India and Brazil, together with our 
continued efforts to optimise our product 
mix toward higher margin products.
We differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors by our global “copy exact” 
manufacturing structure, our fast cycle 
R&D capabilities, and our OEM marketing 
and selling strategy. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
One of our strategic goals is to excel in 
our targeted markets and to continue to 
grow our innovative new product pipeline 
with high-value adding, new market 
creating technologies. R&D is therefore 
critical to the continued success of Alent 
and we have invested signiﬁcantly in 
our facilities around the world. We have 
substantial R&D sites in Bangalore, India, 
in the USA in New Jersey and Connecticut, 
in Langenfeld, Germany and also in 
Hiratsuka, Japan. We also have smaller 
R&D sites in the UK and the Netherlands. 
In total we have over 170 R&D scientists 
and engineers with more than one third 
of these located in Bangalore. Our R&D 
spend in 2012 was c4% of NSV. Our R&D 
focus is on the growth areas in which 
we are investing; we spend very little on 
mature, but cash generative products 
such as solder bar and wire. Excluding 
these, R&D spend is c5% of NSV. Instead, 
we divert signiﬁcantly more resources to 
the development of our higher margin 
products such as damascene copper, nano 
silver die attach materials, and our next 
generation solder pastes.
Global R&D resources are allocated into 
three key categories:
 approximately 70% is allocated to 
speciﬁc customer-driven, new product 
evolution and development activities.
The focus here is to ensure that we 
continue to gain share in our current 
markets by a continued stream of 
differentiated, innovative products and 
by working very closely with our 
customers;
 an additional 20% is allocated, through 
new business development, to 
expanding and extending our products 
and services into new but adjacent high 
growth or emerging markets; and
 the remaining 10% is allocated to 
exploring, selecting and nurturing 
emerging/breakthrough/disruptive 
technologies that will help to sustain our 
innovation pipeline for many years to come.
“I believe strongly that the establishment of 
Alent as a stand-alone Company will benefit 
our shareholders, our customers, and our 
people.”
❯ Steve Corbett, Chief Executive
A full deﬁnition of non-GAAP measures is outlined on page 87 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012
15
STOCK CODE: ALNT
OUR PERFORMANCE
NEW PRODUCTS AND MARKETS
Alent supplies a broad range of products 
across the electronics, automotive and 
industrial end-markets. A signiﬁcant 
portion of our R&D spend and deployment 
of resources is focused on incremental 
improvements to existing product 
platforms, which enable customers 
to improve their own manufacturing 
yields and productivity, and enhance 
both the performance and reliability of 
their products. It is these incremental 
improvements that enable our customers 
to deliver their next generation products, 
cementing our relationship with them. 
We also have an exciting pipeline of new 
products that we are launching. Some of 
these are into new markets such as LED 
lighting and solar/photovoltaics, and we 
continue to identify new or emerging 
markets into which our technologies and 
chemistries can be applied. Some are 
signiﬁcant enhancements, such as our 
ultra-high performance damascene copper 
for enabling next generation technology 
nodes, new moulded interconnect devices 
for smartphone antennae, as well as new 
3D packaging plating chemistries for 3D 
interconnects, and new semi-conductor die 
attach products for the power electronics 
end market. While these new products 
had a relatively small impact on our results 
in 2012, we expect these to develop 
into signiﬁcant revenue streams over the 
coming years.
OEM SALES STRATEGY
One key operational strategy is our value-
add OEM marketing and selling initiative. 
We show the OEMs the value our products 
can bring to them. We are able to quantify 
for them, in monetary terms, how much 
they will save if they specify the use of our 
products to their subcontractors, even 
though our products may cost more. We 
show customers the ﬁnancial beneﬁts of 
increased production yields, increased 
productivity and increased reliability, which 
we can actually demonstrate. In our R&D 
centres in Bangalore and the USA we have 
production scale surface mount assembly 
lines, which are the same scale assembly 
lines that our customers use. In a single 
day we can assemble more than 1,000 
circuit boards. We can place as many as 
500 components on each board. Each of 
these components has multiple solder 
joints, such that on a single day we can 
literally generate millions of individual 
interconnect data points. From these 
data points, we can generate accurate 
yield and productivity data which is made 
available to our customers. We then 
take these boards and mechanically and 
environmentally stress them in such a 
way as to be meaningful to the speciﬁc 
OEM’s end application. This reliability 
data, along with the assembly yield and 
productivity data, are the backbone of 
our value selling initiative. In summary, 
this is much more than a sales pitch, it is 
a compelling value proposition that we 
have seen deliver real tangible results for 
our customers. Alent backs all of this up 
with its global manufacturing footprint, 
experienced technical service engineers, 
and “copy exact” manufacturing protocols. 
Large multinational OEMs want assurance 
that their supply chain can deliver exactly 
the same materials wherever in the 
world they choose to have their products 
manufactured.
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
The core Alent management team is a 
highly experienced group of executives, 
with whom I have worked for many years 
as we grew and developed the business 
to the point at which it could have its 
own listing. This group has extensive 
international experience across all of 
our operations, our markets, and the 
industries and customers whom we 
serve. I believe that the management 
team is well-positioned to lead Alent 
to a successful future as a stand-alone, 
high-growth company. In addition, I am 
pleased to welcome David Egan to the 
Alent management team as Finance 
Director. I know that David will bring a 
new perspective to Alent and that his 
contributions will have a positive impact 
on our future performance.
TRADING PERFORMANCE
Alent delivered a solid set of results for 
the year despite challenging economic 
conditions during 2012. Whilst NSV was 
broadly ﬂat, both as a result of mix effects 
and as a result of weaker electronics and 
European automotive and industrial end-
market demand, adjusted operating proﬁt at 
constant currency increased 3.4% to £97.2m 
and adjusted EPS increased 2.1% to 24.6 
pence per share. Adjusted cash generated 
from operations was £86.0m (2011: £93.0m) 
and represented a cash conversion of 88% of 
adjusted operating proﬁt.
OUTLOOK
Our major global electronics end-markets 
are expected to return to positive year 
on year growth, with more limited growth 
in global printed circuit board surface 
area production. This improving market 
development is likely to be tempered 
by the continuing macroeconomic 
headwinds across the Eurozone, especially 
in the automotive industry. Alent’s strong 
positions across its selected leading 
electronics applications and with its end-
customers place us in a good position to 
grow NSV and to further improve returns. 
We have begun the year on track and look 
forward to making further progress over 
the course of the year, with our normal 
seasonal improvement in the second half.
Steve Corbett 
Chief Executive
28 March 2013 OUR PERFORMANCE www.alent.com
16
ASSEMBLY MATERIALS
At reported rates Change at
2012
£m
2011
£m Reported Constant
NSV 208.0 214.1 (2.8%) 2.3%
Adjusted operating profit 58.7 53.7 9.3% 9.9%
NSV margin 28.2% 25.1% 3.1ppts 2.0ppts
Business Unit Review
Electronics end-markets remained 
relatively weak in 2012. According to 
Henderson Ventures, a leading industry 
commentator, worldwide production of 
electronics equipment (on a revenue basis 
at constant 2011 exchange rates) declined 
by 1.2% versus 2011. The bright spots 
that drove Assembly Materials’ growth 
were smartphones and tablet computers.
Global smartphone year-on-year unit 
growth was 37% (Prismark) with global 
production of some 650 million units. 
Global 2012 tablet computer volumes 
were 125 million units, an increase of 95% 
compared with 2011. Assembly Materials’ 
NSV in the Surface mount assembly 
product line segment, which includes 
solder paste, increased 3.8% year on year 
(+8% at constant currency). Other high 
unit volume electronics system segments 
such as standard mobile phones, desk top 
and laptop PCs, LCD TVs, set top boxes 
and digital cameras all experienced no, 
or negative unit growth in 2012 versus 
2011. Automotive electronic systems 
grew globally by 3.7% on a revenue basis 
(Prismark) with increases in North America 
and Asia offsetting declines in Europe.
For Assembly Materials, we segment our 
solder product lines between bar solder — 
used in the more mature wave soldering 
technology for assembling printed circuit 
boards and which comprises “Wave solder 
assembly” in the table above; and products 
such as the high performance solder 
paste, wire and preforms that are used as 
the joining medium in the more modern 
surface mount technology for circuit board 
manufacture, shown as “Surface mount 
assembly” in the table. In wave solder 
assembly, NSV increased 2.7% at constant 
currency. We saw, as expected, a continuing 
shift away from the older printed circuit 
board assembly process to the newer 
Surface mount assembly process, and this 
is reﬂected in the table above. Although 
overall global bar solder volumes declined 
12% as compared to 2011, we were still 
able to achieve revenue growth, in constant 
currency, in this segment as a result of 
continued mix shift toward low silver 
content alloys and the on-going shift from 
lead-bearing solders to lead-free alloys.
Surface mount assembly products saw an 
increase in NSV of 8% at constant currency. 
We shipped a signiﬁcantly higher volume 
of lead-free solder paste, being driven by 
demand from the smartphone, tablet and 
laptop computer segments from OEMs, as 
a result of our ongoing OEM marketing and 
selling strategy. In 2012, c30% of our global 
solder paste volume was shipped into 
the supply chain of three market-leading 
OEMs in the smartphone, tablet and laptop 
computer market segments based on 
speciﬁc product speciﬁcation by the OEMs.
“Microelectronics” includes a range of 
non-solder products that are sold into the 
electronics, LED and photovoltaic markets, 
including electronic polymers, spheres, and 
die attach materials. NSV declined 5.6% 
at constant currency due to lower solder 
sphere volumes. 
The “Other” category includes our 
recycling and reclaim operations, our 
consumer products and water treatment 
chemicals businesses. NSV declined in 
these areas 6.6% at constant currency, 
primarily due to lower sales of commodity 
products in our Fernox water treatment 
chemicals business. The resulting mix shift 
away from commodities improved the 
quality of earnings in this product 
line segment. 
Assembly Materials’ adjusted operating 
proﬁt increased by £5.0m (9.3%) to £58.7m 
(2011: £53.7m). On a constant currency 
basis the increase was 9.9%. The NSV 
margin increased 3.1ppts to 28.2% (2011: 
25.1%). The increase in proﬁt and margin 
was driven by a number of factors. These 
included higher sales of our higher margin 
surface mount technology products, higher 
margin sales in Asia more than offsetting 
a small decline in Europe, operational 
gearing on the increased sales overall, and 
the effects of our continual operational and 
Six Sigma improvement programmes and 
the continued product mix shift away from 
low margin, more commoditised products 
to higher margin products.
NSV
At reported rates Change at
2012
£m
2011
£m Reported Constant
Wave solder assembly 57.2 62.8 (8.9%) 2.7%
Surface mount assembly 94.8 91.3 3.8% 8.0%
Microelectronics 11.8 12.3 (4.1%) (5.6%)
Other 44.2 47.7 (7.3%) (6.6%)
Total Assembly Materials 208.0 214.1 (2.8%) 2.3%
A full deﬁnition of non-GAAP measures is outlined on page 87 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012
17
STOCK CODE: ALNT
OUR PERFORMANCE
SURFACE CHEMISTRIES
Surface Chemistries serves the electronics and the automotive/industrial end-markets, with NSV split approximately equally between 
these two market segments.
At reported rates Change at
2012
£m
2011
£m Reported Constant
NSV 208.7 219.2 (4.8%) (2.7%)
Adjusted operating profit 46.0 48.2 (4.6%) (4.4%)
NSV margin 22.0% 22.0% — (0.4)pts
“Performance coatings” are specialty 
electroplating chemicals sold into non-
electronics end-markets which are used 
to provide either corrosion protection, 
or wear protection, or to provide a high 
quality decorative ﬁnish to either metal 
or plastic substrates. In the automotive 
and industrial end-markets, the severe 
market headwinds in Europe resulted in 
signiﬁcantly reduced volume demand from 
customers in that region. Western Europe 
experienced a 10% unit volume decline 
(source: LMC Automotive) in light vehicle 
production in 2012 with manufacturers 
in Southern Europe hit particularly hard. 
However, stronger demand in the North 
American and Asian automotive markets 
more than compensated for the decline 
in Europe and, as a result, Surface 
Chemistries’ Performance coatings NSV 
was up 1.7% versus the prior year (on a 
constant currency basis). 
Products sold into “electronics” end-
markets include copper damascene, 
providing the copper “wiring” in the 
leading edge semiconductor applications 
such as microprocessors, logic and 
ASICs, wafer bumping chemistries 
for the semiconductor market, and 
printed circuit fabrication chemicals and 
interconnect materials serving a broad 
range of electronics applications. The 
overall worldwide circuit board market 
contracted by some 6% (Prismark) in 
2012 as measured in millions of square 
metres of circuit boards produced. As a 
result, our printed circuit board chemistry 
volumes sold into this market were down 
5.7%. The global semiconductor market, 
in terms of silicon area (excluding solar) 
saw a decline in 2012 of 1.1% (Henderson). 
Our damascene copper business was, in 
total, generally ﬂat in comparison to the 
prior year as some customers struggled 
to ramp the new, higher speciﬁcation 
28nm technology node and this delayed 
expected qualiﬁcations. However, even 
within our damascene copper product line, 
we experienced a mix shift in 2012 away 
from the more commoditised electrolyte 
business toward the higher margin 
additives. Damascene copper additives 
increased 9% year on year.
The smaller product group, “Other” 
includes equipment sales — where we sell 
electroplating equipment to our customers 
typically alongside a multi-year contract for 
us to provide the associated electroplating 
chemicals, and small amounts of non-
proprietary products sourced from third 
parties and resold to customers. NSV 
decreased £2.9m on a constant currency 
basis due to a reduction in equipment 
sales and sales of commodities.
Our new, world class manufacturing and 
technical centre under construction in 
Shanghai is progressing well with hand-
over expected at the end of the ﬁrst half 
of 2013.
Surface Chemistries’ adjusted operating 
proﬁt decreased by £2.2m (4.6%) to £46.0m 
(2011: £48.2m). On a constant currency 
basis the decrease was 4.4%, resulting in 
the NSV margin being ﬂat year on year, 
at 22.0%. The major factor in this decline 
was the weaker demand in Europe (which 
accounted for 41% of divisional sales) in 
both automotive and electronics, together 
with the global decline in printed circuit 
board production volumes.
NSV
At reported rates Change at
2012
£m
2011
£m Reported Constant
Performance coatings 96.6 99.2 (2.6%) 1.7%
Electronics 100.8 105.3 (4.3%) (4.4%)
Other 11.3 14.7 (23.1%) (20.4%)
Total Surface Chemistries 208.7 219.2 (4.8%) (2.7%)
