 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012
03
STOCK CODE: ALNT
OUR  COMPANY
Chairman’s Letter
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
INTRODUCTION
I am privileged to introduce this ﬁrst Annual 
Report of Alent plc as an independent 
company, following the demerger of 
Cookson Group plc in December 2012. In 
May 2012, the Cookson Board undertook 
a strategic review which concluded that 
a demerger was the best option for 
maximising the value of the Cookson Group 
and creating value for its shareholders. The 
demerger was completed in December 2012 
and Alent is now listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 
250 in the Specialty Chemicals sector. 
As a stand-alone global specialty chemicals 
and materials Company , we now have the 
opportunity to demonstrate and to build on 
our position as the preferred supplier of high 
performance materials and chemistry across 
the electronics, industrial and automotive 
markets.
We set out in this report how we will execute 
and further develop our strategy. We focus 
on our existing specialist high growth 
end-markets while also developing new 
ones, bringing to market new high-margin 
products while continuing to enhance our 
operational efﬁciencies and expanding our 
OEM sales, while developing our technology 
and innovation leadership. We believe that 
this strategy will result in our continuing to 
deliver value for our shareholders.
RESULTS
Alent improved its business fundamentals 
and doubled its adjusted operating proﬁt 
from 2008 to 2011. Despite a difﬁcult macro-
economic environment in 2012, that growth 
continued during the year with adjusted 
operating proﬁt increasing 3% to £97.2m 
(2011: £94.4m) and adjusted Earnings Per 
Share (EPS) increasing 2.1% to 24.6p (2011: 
24.1p). Adjusted cash generated from 
operations was £86.0m (2011: £93.0m) and 
represented a cash conversion of 88% of 
adjusted operating proﬁt.
DIVIDEND
As stated in the Alent Prospectus, the Board 
is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 5.5 
pence per share, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM on 21 May 2013. 
Alent is a cash generative business 
with the opportunity for investments 
to enhance its growth prospects, both 
through organic investments including new 
product development, and through bolt-on 
acquisitions. The Board intends to pursue a 
progressive dividend policy that reﬂects this 
strategy, with dividend growth expected to 
be at least in line with underlying earnings 
growth, targeting a dividend cover in the 
near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times.
HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT & 
SUSTAINABILITY (HSES)
The Board has overall responsibility for 
Alent’s HSES policy and for monitoring its 
implementation. While our activities in this 
important area continue to be of a high 
standard and there were no major incidents 
during the year, as a new Company I look 
forward to increased focus on this area. 
BOARD
Alent begins its new corporate life with 
what I believe to be a very strong and 
experienced Board, bringing together new 
appointees as well as Directors with historical 
knowledge of Alent and its industries. Our 
management team in particular has many 
years of experience in our business and in 
our markets. I believe the Board has the 
right depth and mix of skills, experience, 
knowledge and independence to maximise 
the opportunities for Alent and its 
shareholders. The biographies of our Board 
are set out on pages 44 to 45.
GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to the principles of 
best practice in corporate governance. We 
act in accordance with the principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council, and 
the Companies Act. Ultimate responsibility 
for the management of the Company rests 
with the Board of Directors. The Board 
focuses primarily upon strategic, policy and 
governance issues, acting in accordance 
with the best interests of shareholders as a 
whole. It also approves the Group strategy, 
oversees the allocation of resources and 
monitors the Group’s performance. 
DIVERSITY
The Board recognises the beneﬁts to the 
Company of diversity, both within our 
operations and at Board level. We support 
the Davies Review ‘Women on Boards’ as 
well as the Financial Reporting Council’ s 
statement on proposed changes to the 
Code relating to gender diversity on Boards. 
OUR PEOPLE
Finally , on behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank all of our people for the invaluable 
contribution they make to our continuing 
success. Alent’ s growth and development 
over recent years is as a direct result of 
their persistent hard work, dedication and 
achievement of results, and I believe we all 
look forward with enthusiasm and conﬁdence.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
28 March 2013
“As a stand-alone global specialty chemicals 
and materials Company, we now have the 
opportunity to demonstrate our position as 
the preferred supplier of high performance 
materials and chemistry to our customers.”
❯ Peter Hill, CBE Chairman
