 WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013  ALENT   03
STRATEGIC
REPORT
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
 C HAI R M AN’ S  
LETTER
DEAR SHAREHOLDER,
Last year, in my first report as Chairman, I introduced Alent 
plc as an independent company following our demerger 
from Cookson Group plc. I set out how Alent plc would 
further develop and execute our strategy to strengthen  
our position as a preferred supplier of highly engineered 
and customised specialty chemicals and materials across 
the electronics, industrial and automotive markets.
One year on, I can report that Alent’s performance in 2013 
has reinforced our confidence in our strategic direction.  
We set out in this report how we continue to develop and 
deliver on our strategy. Our focus on high unit growth 
end-markets, our differentiated value-add customer 
strategy, our strong market and technology positions  
allied to our innovation leadership and our financial 
strength, will both support organic growth and acquisitions,  
and will deliver long-term growth and sustainable margin 
improvement to our shareholders.
Results
In a challenging external environment, Alent delivered  
a solid set of results in 2013. Whilst adjusted operating profit 
declined 3.2% to £94.1m (2012: £97 .2m) and adjusted EPS 
declined 2.0% to 24.1p (2012: 24.6p) we believe we have 
outperformed in the majority of our end-markets both by 
holding or improving our market share positions and taking 
actions to improve our performance. Pricing discipline  
was maintained, cost control and restructuring for the 
future increased, and margins were largely maintained  
or improved. Cash generation from operations was 
exceptionally strong during the year, resulting in a  
much-strengthened balance sheet and a year-end  
net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.0x (2012: 1.3x).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013  
of 5.71 pence with a total dividend per share for 2013 of 
8.60 pence. This is an increase of 4.2% on the prior year 
and in line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy  
of full year dividend growth expected to be at least in  
line with earnings growth, and targeting a dividend  
cover in the near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times.  
The Directors’ intention is to maintain a capital structure 
that is both efficient and balanced between investment  
for growth and returns to shareholders.
PETER HILL, CBE 
CHAIRMAN
Health, Safety, Environment & Sustainability (HSES) 
The Group is committed to the continuous improvement  
in respect of health, safety, environment and sustainability, 
and our performance in this important area of our business 
continues to be of a high industry standard. Nevertheless, 
we remain extremely vigilant in monitoring and continuously 
improving our processes and activities that impact upon the 
safety of our people and the environment.
Governance and Board
Strong governance is integral to the long-term success  
of Alent and the Board is committed to ensuring that the 
business continues to be governed and managed with 
openness, honesty and transparency. Our Governance 
Report on pages 48 to 66 sets out the approach we take 
and highlights the key focus areas of the Board in 2013. 
During this, our first year, the Directors, both collectively and 
individually, visited and inspected a substantial proportion 
of Alent’s global operations, R&D centres and facilities, 
meeting management and staff. We have been uniformly 
impressed. We have also introduced and are progressing 
new governance and risk management processes.  
These actions will continue during 2014. 
Our people
It has been a year of tangible progress for the Group – 
strategically, operationally and financially. This could not 
have been achieved without the dedication, focus and 
commitment of all our people and, on behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank them for their considerable efforts and  
I look forward to another year of continued progress in 
delivering on our plans.
PETER HILL, CBE 
CHAIRMAN 
4 MARCH 2014
“ Our strategy will 
deliver long-term 
growth and 
sustainable margin 
improvement.”
