 10   ALENT  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.ALENT.COM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
STATEMENT
Overview
2013 was Alent’s first full year as an independent company. 
During the year, we have made considerable progress in 
developing our strategy and prioritising the goals and 
aspirations that will drive the future performance of our 
business. Throughout this report I will provide an overview  
of our performance in year one.
Our first year was not without its challenges. Our principal 
electronics end-market contracted during the course of 
2013. Consumer confidence remained subdued during the 
year, negatively impacting demand for electronic products. 
Industry forecasts for global electronic equipment revenue 
growth were modified downward throughout the year, with 
industry analysts now estimating a decline of 2.9% for full 
year 2013, down from the 4.5% growth forecast at the 
beginning of 2013. 
Personal computer unit volume was a key underperforming 
end-market. Other high unit volume electronic applications 
such as flat screen TVs experienced little, or negative unit 
growth during 2013. Whilst China continued to grow, there 
was weaker demand for new products and technologies 
which had a significant impact on electronics end-markets. 
Eurozone markets were weak although slightly improving in 
the second half of 2013. Automotive and industrial markets 
have been mixed, with Western European automotive 
contracting 2% during the year, whilst NAFTA and Asia 
Pacific have grown 4% and 6% respectively.
Against this challenging end-market backdrop, Alent 
delivered a solid financial performance during the year. 
Group NSV increased 0.8% (down 1.4% at constant currency 
rates) to £420.1m (2012: £416.7m), demonstrating our ability 
to outperform the majority of our end-markets. NSV in our 
Assembly Materials business increased 0.7% (down 0.9%  
at constant currency rates) with growth impacted by 
underlying weak end-markets, limited new product 
launches from a number of global OEMs and subdued 
consumer confidence. NSV in our Surface Chemistries 
business increased 0.9% (down 2.0% at constant currency 
rates) with solid growth in both our Performance Coatings 
and Printed Circuit Board segments through share capture 
offset by lower sales of copper damascene.
STEVE CORBETT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
“ We are focused  
on continuing the 
transition of the 
business and 
delivering on  
our commitment  
to shareholders.” WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013  ALENT   11
STRATEGIC
REPORT
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
In line with our strategy, we continued to focus on higher-
margin, enhanced technology products, and harvesting 
more mature products. The strong relationships we have 
with our customers give us a valuable insight into their 
needs and keeps us at the centre of their organisations.  
We have continued to resource and expand our OEM 
marketing and selling initiative and have largely held or 
improved our market share position in most product lines. 
Key to our strategy is our continued investment in the 
business for the long-term and as such, we maintained  
our R&D spend at 4% of NSV. 
Across all of our product segments, the pricing 
environment remained stable, despite weaker end-
markets. Cost control remains tight and disciplined.  
We have continued to restructure our business to further 
optimise our manufacturing footprint and reduce the 
operating cost base.
Group adjusted operating profit decreased 3.2% (down 
5.4% at constant currency rates) to £94.1m (2012: £97 .2m) 
and Group NSV margin decreased 0.9pts to 22.4% (2012: 
23.3%). Excluding the mix effect of the lower copper 
damascene sales, NSV margin was broadly maintained.
Operating cash generation during the year has been  
very strong, leading to reduced net debt and a 
strengthening of our balance sheet. Adjusted cash 
generated from operations was £102.8m (2012: £86.0m) 
and represented a cash conversion of 99.7% of EBITDA,  
an improvement of 22.8pts from our 2012 cash conversion 
of 76.9%. The improvement was largely driven by lower 
working capital due to a combination of lower raw material  
costs and improved working capital management.
We have continued to invest in the business with both  
R&D and capital expenditure. Our manufacturing footprint 
continues to be strengthened with our new Surface 
Chemistries facility in Shanghai now being commissioned 
and construction of the new facility in Chennai, India to  
be commissioned during 2014.
Our strategy
The key elements of our strategy are to:
• focus on high unit growth end-markets;
• leverage our differentiated value-add customer strategy;
• continue to develop higher-margin products; 
• improve mix and operational efficiencies;
• further invest in R&D to expand our market, technology 
and innovation leadership; and
• leverage our financial strength to support organic  
growth and acquisitions.
Throughout this report, we set out the progress we have 
made against our strategic objectives. Whilst the strategy 
has evolved as we progressed through the year, the key 
elements of the strategy as set out on page 12 of this report 
remain unchanged. 
Key strengths
Our key strengths as set out on pages 14 to 23 will enable 
us to deliver on our strategy. Our key strengths are our:
• position as a global market leader;
• competitive advantage through our OEM-focused 
strategy supported by our R&D capabilities and global 
manufacturing footprint;
• financial strength to support organic growth and bolt-on 
M&A; and
• outperformance of our long-term end-markets through 
the cycle.
We believe these strengths will enable us to deliver long-
term growth and sustainable margin improvement.
Our people
Overall, I am pleased with the excellent performance we’ve 
delivered in a challenging operating environment and I’d 
like to thank our people for their support and effort over the 
year. We have some 2,500 talented people in Alent who 
are committed to delivering on our strategy. Our people 
are our greatest asset and are critical to our future success 
and I look forward to another year of continued progress in 
delivering on our plans.
Outlook
We will continue to drive the future performance of our 
business with:
• our focus on high unit growth end-markets;
• our differentiated value-add customer strategy; 
• our ongoing R&D investment to expand our market, 
technology and innovation leadership;
• our focus on cost control and efficiency improvements; 
and
• our financial strength to support organic growth  
and acquisitions.
We anticipate the automotive end-market will continue to 
grow on a global basis but it is more difficult to predict how 
the overall electronics industry will develop. We expect to 
see the transition from traditional PCs to tablets continuing 
and smartphone unit growth beginning to slow. We 
anticipate overall consumer confidence to improve as 
global economies expand, leading to a modest increase 
in demand for consumer electronics. 
Whilst visibility remains limited, we expect to make progress 
over the course of the year, with our normal seasonal 
improvement in the second half, although foreign 
exchange translation will be a headwind at current rates.
STEVE CORBETT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
4 MARCH 2014
