 06 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT
Introduction
I am delighted to be presenting this, my first update as Chief 
Executive of Alent plc. Alent presents a great opportunity. 
The Company has strong products, with leading positions 
in global markets where demand will only continue to grow 
in the long-term. The fundamentals of our principal end-
markets, electronics, automotive and industrial, remain 
robust. The Company delivered good growth on a constant 
currency basis in 2014, with profitability increasing ahead of 
NSV, and cash generation remaining strong; all of which 
are very attractive and a credit to the management team.
Initial observations
Since my appointment was announced in November 
2014, I have taken the opportunity to visit a number of our 
facilities, in Asia, Germany and the US, prior to me joining 
officially. This has meant that I have already met and 
spoken with many people, which has greatly helped in 
gaining an understanding of the fundamentals of the 
business. I have also spent time with the Board and senior 
management team to understand the strategy.
My first impressions of the business have reinforced my 
view that Alent is a strong business with good prospects 
for the future. The 2014 results are testament to that. While 
the principal end-markets showed modest improvement, 
supported by signs of better consumer confidence, 
Alent continued its track record of outperforming these 
markets. Strong relationships with OEMs, alongside a 
comprehensive global technical service presence and 
fast-cycle R&D driving ongoing product innovation, have 
enabled Alent to grow its market share. 
During my site visits. I had the opportunity to see the 
strategy in action and I can tell you that what I have seen 
as I travel around the business matched what I read and 
was told before I joined. Here are just a few examples:
• in Germany I met with the technical support team 
who explained what they have done to support and 
develop a long-term relationship with one of Europe’s 
largest suppliers of plating on plastics for the 
automotive market;
• in Asia I saw the benefit of having local, fast-cycle 
R&D to support the development of new applications 
for customers, such as molded interconnect devices 
for mobile phones and advanced protective coatings 
for printed circuit boards; 
• in Singapore I also witnessed the benefit of our OEM 
relationships pulling through a new polymer sintering 
product, Atrox, which is a disruptive technology for 
the semiconductor market currently in the approval 
process; and 
• in the US I was impressed by the developments 
in fundamental and disruptive technologies. 
The development in Argomax, the silver nano paste 
for high voltage, high temperature applications, 
and development in the leading technology nodes for 
copper damascene were particular highlights. 
Alent clearly has some leading technology – I’ve been 
impressed with the technical capability within the business, 
from both a fundamental chemistry and material science 
perspective. This is vital in developing higher margin 
products and accessing the high unit growth end-markets. 
Last, but by no means least, I have been impressed with  
the people I have met. They have been knowledgeable 
and passionate about the business, enthusiastic about 
what they do and focused on delivering on behalf of  
our customers. 
My priorities
Alent has demonstrated that its competitive advantages 
enable it to outperform its end-markets. It is clear to me, 
and the Board, that Alent’s strengths will enable it to 
continue to do so in the future, but also that there is more 
that can be achieved here. 
So my focus is on growth, and in determining where and 
how Alent will grow in the long-term, and where capital 
will be allocated to deliver enhanced shareholder value. 
Opportunities exist to leverage our strong cash generation 
and balance sheet, to grow organically and through M&A.
My first priority, then, is to fully understand Alent. To evaluate 
the strengths of the business model and strategy, and the 
opportunities facing the business. Over the next few months 
I will visit the remainder of the Company’s operations to fully 
appreciate how we operate, and continue to meet the rest 
of the team. I will also be visiting customers to see our 
products in action and talking to them to understand the 
performance of the business from their perspective. I will 
also prioritise meeting investors, to intently listen to their 
respective views of Alent. I will take all these views on board 
in determining where to drive the growth.
Investment for growth 2015 - 2016
As I’ve said, there is momentum in our business and in our 
end-markets. Industry experts are forecasting both the 
electronics and automotive markets to grow between 3 - 4% 
CAAGR from 2014 - 2018. Within those markets, there are 
attractive higher growth areas that present specific 
“I am excited to have been 
asked to lead Alent. It is a strong 
Company with great prospects 
and I am eager to start working 
with the senior team in driving 
Alent through its next phase of 
growth and development” . STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 07  
opportunities for Alent such as tablets and automotive 
semiconductors, which are expected to grow around 7% 
and 9% respectively.
The improving end-market trends and the business 
performance in 2014 has reinforced our confidence in  
our strategic direction. Consequently, the Board and I feel 
the time is right to invest now, to extend our competitive 
advantage and accelerate future organic growth. 
Consequently, during the course of 2015 and 2016,  
we are embarking on a targeted investment programme; 
strengthening routes to market, product development, 
manufacturing and R&D. 
Our customer-led, “fast-cycle R&D”, and technical service 
model is key to our outperformance. We will, therefore, 
invest up to £7m during 2015, increasing headcount 
by around 100 people in these areas. The focus is on 
accelerating share gains, developing new products and 
new markets. We have a winning formula in this area and 
we will continue to build on this, ensuring we have the 
right people, in the right place, to take advantage of the 
opportunities we can see ahead with customers. 
We will increase OEM sales headcount, particularly in Asia, 
to achieve key approvals and build customer intimacy. 
Headcount will be added to supplement our R&D teams, 
in support of both new and existing customers. Scientists 
and engineers will be recruited to increase product 
development, primarily in India and the US. We will also 
expand our global technical services capability to 
enhance support to customers. 
Additionally we will increase capital expenditure during 
2015 to 1.5 – 1.8x depreciation, focusing on upgrades to 
our manufacturing and R&D facilities, to support new 
processes, entry to new higher growth markets and the 
development of our high margin products. Specifically,  
we will be upgrading the copper damascene and wafer 
level packaging process lines in the US, and the powder 
manufacturing capability in Asia. Investment in R&D 
RICK ERTMANN 
President, Alpha
ANDREW HEATH 
Chief Executive
DAVID EGAN 
Finance Director
RICK REAGAN 
P r e s ide n t , En t h o ne
equipment will be focused on high-margin products such 
as die-attach, LED, nano silver and performance coatings 
in our research centre in India. In the US, equipment will  
be added for advanced wafer fabrication research,  
and coating development equipment will be added for 
both decorative and performance coating applications  
in Europe. 
We expect to see benefits starting to come through next 
year, with the full NSV growth benefit being delivered in 
2017 . Alent is a technology Company and it is essential 
that we innovate for the future if we are to remain 
ahead of the game. We will be mindful of end-market 
performance and will maintain discipline through the 
structured investment programme. 
Outlook
As ever, while visibility remains limited, we expect to make 
continued progress over the course of the year, with our 
normal seasonal improvement in the second half. As 
things stand, we anticipate that our core markets will 
continue to grow at a similar rate to 2014, on a global 
basis, during the course of this year and that Alent will 
continue to outperform its key markets.
We are confident our targeted investment programme 
will accelerate growth and margin improvement and that 
we are well placed to take advantage of improving 
market conditions.
Conclusion
I am excited to have been asked to lead Alent. It is a 
strong Company with great prospects. I am eager to start 
working with the senior team in driving Alent through its 
next phase of growth and development. I look forward to 
updating you on progress in next year’s Annual Report.
ANDREW HEATH 
Chief Executive 
2 March 2015
