 04 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Dear Shareholder,
Overview 
2014 has been a year of excellent progress. Alent has 
delivered a robust set of results, with good growth in sales, 
profits and margins together with strong cash generation. 
Our key end-markets of electronics and automotive 
showed return to growth during the year and we 
continued to outperform those markets. Our position as 
a global market leader, our competitive advantage and 
our financial strength enables us to outperform those 
markets that are core to Alent. 
The strategy for Alent remains unchanged, and we set out 
in this Report how we will continue to further develop and 
deliver on that strategy. The key elements are to: 
• focus on high unit growth end-markets; 
• build on our differentiated value-add customer strategy; 
• continue to develop higher-margin products; 
• improve mix and operational efficiencies; 
• further invest in R&D to expand our market, technology 
and innovation leadership; and
• utilise our financial strength to support organic growth 
and acquisitions.
Further detail on our strategy, and on its execution during 
2014, is set out within the Strategic Report on pages 22 - 23.
Delivery of profitable growth
Alent delivered a robust set of results in 2014, with 
good progress in all key financial metrics. Net Sales Value 
showed a very creditable organic growth at constant 
currency of 4.6%; adjusted operating profit grew 7 .6% and 
adjusted EPS by 11.1%, both on the same basis. NSV was 
£413.0m (2013: £420.1m), adjusted operating profit was 
£95.1m (2013: £94.1m) and adjusted EPS was 25.0 pence 
(2013: 24.1 pence). NSV margin increased to 23.0% (2013: 
22.4%). Cash generation from operations was again 
extremely strong, and net debt at year end was £108.3m 
(2013: £96.5m) despite the payment of a special dividend 
of £42m during the year. 
PETER HILL, CBE 
Chairman  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 05 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2014 of  
6.0 pence with a total dividend per share for 2014 of 9.0 
pence. This is an increase of 4.7% on the prior year and in 
line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy of full year 
dividend growth expected to be at least in line with 
earnings growth, and targeting a dividend cover in the 
near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times. The final 
dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting,  
will be paid on 19 June 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 15 May 2015.
The Board is committed to maintaining a capital structure 
that is both efficient and balanced between investment 
for growth, both organically and through acquisitions, and 
returns to shareholders. In October 2014 we assessed our 
expected future cash generation and the capital required 
to support our ongoing growth plans, normal dividend 
payment and potential bolt-on acquisitions and 
announced a special dividend to shareholders of 
15.0 pence per share, representing a return of £42m. 
Health, Safety, Environment  
and Sustainability (HSES)
The Group remains committed to the continuous 
improvement of its performance in respect of health, 
safety, environment and sustainability. Our performance in 
this area of our business continues to be of a high industry 
standard. Nevertheless, we remain vigilant in monitoring 
and improving our processes and activities which impact 
upon the safety of our people and the environment.
Governance
Strong governance is integral to the long-term success  
of Alent and the Board is committed to ensuring that the 
business continues to be governed and managed with 
openness, honesty and transparency. Our Governance 
Report on pages 44 - 62 sets out the approach we  
take and highlights the key focus areas of the Board  
during 2014. 
Board development
In September 2014, Steve Corbett stood down as Chief 
Executive. Steve played an important role in developing 
the underlying business and overseeing Alent’s transition 
into becoming a publicly traded, specialty chemicals 
Company. We wish him success in his future endeavours. 
Andrew Heath was appointed Chief Executive, joining 
Alent on 21 February 2015. Andrew’s knowledge of and 
successful track record in delivering innovation and new 
technology to demanding global customers in the US, 
Europe and Asia will be of enormous benefit to Alent.  
His operational and corporate development expertise  
will bring valuable experience to our Board. Andrew will 
provide strong leadership to our well established senior 
management team and we look forward to working with 
him to take the Company forward.
I would also like to thank Rick Ertmann, President of our 
Assembly Materials business unit, who has been an 
extremely effective Interim Chief Executive.
Jan Oosterveld, Non-executive Director will be retiring 
following the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015.  
Jan joined the Board of Cookson Group plc in 2004  
and was an inaugural Director of Alent. The Board thanks 
Jan for his very strong contribution and wishes him all 
future success. 
Our people
Our progress in delivering against our strategy is only 
possible through the significant efforts and dedication of 
our people, while their calibre and commitment continues 
to impress. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all 
of our people for their continued efforts as together we 
focus on executing our strategy and taking Alent forward. 
PETER HILL, CBE 
Chairman 
2 March 2015 
“ 2014 has been a year of excellent 
progress. Alent has delivered a 
robust set of results, with good 
growth in sales, profits and 
margins together with strong  
cash generation.”
