 9 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chief executive’s review
all operations for the year amounted to £15.7 million, a 
decrease of 14 per cent compared to £18.2 million in 2011 
mainly as a result of an exceptional one off profit in 2011  
of £7.3 million arising from the deemed divestment of the  
CBM business. Group profit from operations, excluding 
gains on disposals and deemed disposal increased by  
4 per cent to £28.5 million (2011: £27.4 million). Earnings 
per share for the year decreased to 0.82 pence compared 
to 0.96 pence in 2011, a decrease of 14 per cent. Operating 
profit growth in 2012 was driven by a strong contribution 
from our Bluesky aviation and natural gas businesses.  
The net borrowing position stayed low at £61.1 million as  
at 31 December 2012 (2011: £5.7 million). During the year 
we invested £59.9 million which primarily consisted of the 
injection into China Gas Group (“CGG”) for shares acquisition 
purpose of £35.6 million and capital expenditure of £15.7 
million, mainly to continue development of our integrated 
natural gas business.
I continue to be greatly encouraged by the Group’s 
performance. Our focus is on continuous improvement  
and to drive efficiency in our operations.
Strategy
Fortune Oil has a clear and focussed strategy: we invest  
in and operate long term cost competitive assets supplying 
oil, gas and resources to support China’s growing economy.  
To achieve this we focus on our portfolio of assets with  
the intention of:
 Becoming a leading integrated natural gas supplier 
across our selected regions in China via our equity 
investment in CGH;
 Developing opportunities in the Chinese oil sector,  
in particular exploiting the Company’s unique position  
in oil products supply and terminals; and
 Developing overseas resources supported by our  
strong relationships with major Chinese state  
owned enterprises.
2012 Results
Fortune Oil continued to make good progress in 2012.  
We have achieved a series of key milestones and remain  
on course with our growth strategy, making great strides 
forward across our core businesses of oil, gas and resources.
Through our transaction with CGH we will be cooperating 
with one of the largest natural gas companies in China 
supplying gas to over 200 cities with a strong platform  
for future growth. Fortune Oil shareholders will continue  
to be exposed to China’s considerable natural gas growth, 
through our shareholding and management position in CGH.
In our Oil business we also continue to make good 
progress. We are close to finalising the replacement 
structure to expand the Maoming SPM joint venture with 
Sinopec and the Bluesky aviation fuel joint venture also 
turned in another solid performance.
In the Resources business, we have completed the 
feasibility study and JORC resource statement on the 
Armenian iron ore asset and made good progress on other 
technical and environmental studies required to fulfil the 
necessary regulatory approvals.
In terms of financial performance, 2012 was another good 
year for the Company. Higher sales volumes drove a 18  
per cent increase in revenues from all operations to £739.4 
million in 2012 from £624.6 million in 2011. Group profit 
after taxation attributable to owners of the parent from  
I continue to be greatly 
encouraged by the Group’s 
performance. Our focus is  
on continuous improvement  
and to drive efficiency in  
our operations. 10 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chief executive’s review
Our focus has resulted in the creation of the SPM, Bluesky, 
West Zhuhai Terminal and the natural gas business which 
have provided strong and consistent cash flows and most 
recently the potential for a significant cash inflow and the 
opportunity to build upon the strategic relationship with CGH.
Key Performance Indicators
We continue to apply the six principal Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”) that were adopted in 2004. We feel these 
continue to be valuable in assessing how well the Group 
has been performing against its strategic objectives. In 2012 
we met or exceeded three out of the six KPIs (see page 5).
2012 Key Achievements
In 2012 the Group had four priorities. First, to conclude  
the renewal of the Maoming SPM joint venture; second,  
to reinforce the strategic direction of the natural gas 
business; third, to progress the commercialisation of gas 
from the CBM project in Liulin; and finally, progress the 
Armenian iron ore project towards the final investment 
decision point. Substantial progress has been made in 
meeting these priorities as detailed in this report.
The Maoming SPM was one of the original investments on 
which Fortune Oil was founded. The SPM arrangements 
with the Company’s partners were due to expire on  
5 February 2013 but have continued pending completion  
of an alternative partnership structure. The Company is now  
in the final stages of concluding a replacement structure  
for the Maoming SPM partnership which will include the 
development of a new pipeline and buoy. We expect that 
under the new structure, the Company will no longer hold  
a controlling equity stake in the joint venture although the 
scope of the joint venture with Sinopec will be expanded.
Natural gas continues to play an increasing role in meeting 
the government targets in energy conservation and 
environmental protection and we have steadily expanded 
this business with our focus on growth in the higher margin 
sectors of LNG and CNG refuelling and gas supply to 
industrial zones. In 2012 our natural gas sales exceeded 
500 million cubic metres and we connected an additional 
67,907 new customers.
We have also become the first company in China to secure 
the regulatory approvals for an LNG dual fuel ship. This is  
a very significant milestone and demonstrates that our 
technology is at the leading edge of this important new 
market. We are already constructing our first LNG refuelling 
station in Chongqing and our plans for a network of stations 
along the Yangtze are progressing to plan. In LNG vehicle 
refuelling, our projects in Liaoning and Hebei province are 
well advanced and our first mover advantage will ensure we 
access the prime locations to capture the rapidly expanding 
LNG fuelled bus and truck fleets in these provinces.
In Liulin our total field production from the Fortune Liulin 
Gas CBM wells exceeded 27,000 cubic metres per day,  
the Production Sharing Contract (“PSC”) was extended a  
further two years until March 2014, and we commenced 
construction of the gas gathering system which will collect 
the gas from the various wells and transport it to the 
wholesale station we have built. We are on track for 
commercial production of gas from Liulin in 2013.
The Company also took the strategic step to enter into  
the CGH transaction described in more detail below, as  
this was seen as the most efficient avenue to accelerate  
the growth and strengthen our position in China’s rapidly 
expanding natural gas market. Through this transaction,  
we will hold a significant position in a nation-wide natural 
gas supplier to over 200 cities with significant growth 
potential, positioning the combined natural gas businesses 
as amongst the largest natural gas companies in China.
The transaction allows Fortune Oil to become part of  
a much stronger business platform well positioned to 
capture a disproportionate share of the China natural gas 
market. Moreover, we anticipate this market will see more 
consolidation and greater competition from the major  
state owned gas companies. Following the completion  
of the transaction, we will be one of the largest shareholders 
in CGH, with a founder and managing director of CGH as 
our joint venture partner in our investment vehicle. Under 
the terms of the transaction, we have the right to nominate 
two directors to the board of CGH, one to be the managing 
director, thus enabling us to have significant influence in  
the development and strategic direction of CGH.
Outlook for 2013
In 2012 we continued to put in place the solid foundations 
on which to build our future. Although China’s economic 
growth cooled from the double digit growth of previous 
years, there are signs that the economy has turned and with 
the new Chinese administration taking control, we expect to 
see significant steps being taken to maintain China’s strong 
and sustained growth as well as a continued strong demand 
for energy.
We constantly assess the potential impact of these  
factors on the Group’s plans, ensuring that the Company’s 
interests are protected and that our investment strategy is 
appropriate to the prevailing market conditions. We believe 
our solid foundations and strategy will enable us to continue 
to grow in the volatile and challenging markets. 11 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
China crude oil demand reached a record high in December 
2012 and we expect demand in the oil sector to remain 
strong. This will mean continued demand for our Oil business 
“engines” of Bluesky, Maoming SPM and West Zhuhai 
Terminal, which, although mature businesses, generate 
much of our cash flow. We will continue to invest to keep 
them running smoothly and efficiently and to extract 
additional value.
The news in China over the past few months has highlighted 
the poor air quality in several of the major cities in China, 
including Beijing, due to coal consumption. Natural gas  
will be the cornerstone to improve local air quality. Our 
involvement with CGH will be the ideal platform to increase 
our share of this rapidly expanding market. Through CGH, 
we are creating scale and critical mass, which are key in an 
increasingly competitive market. We expect to complete the 
transaction with CGH around the middle of 2013 and we will 
then work closely with CGH to enhance the development of 
the combined natural gas business.
The resource business made good progress on the 
development of the Hrazdan mine. We completed the  
JORC compliant mineral resource statement and the 
feasibility study and are working through various technical 
and environmental studies required to obtain the necessary 
regulatory approvals. Whilst it remains difficult to be 
definitive about the long term iron ore cost of production 
curve, China Metallurgical Mines Association (“CMMA”) 
estimates that 42 per cent of iron ore supply to China is 
unprofitable at prices less than US$100/tonne, providing  
us a clear target for the cost of production we need to 
achieve to ensure the commercial success of this project.
Our Employees
Finally I would like to join the Chairman in thanking our 
employees for their dedication, hard work and focus. We  
are very much judged on our results and our employees  
are responsible for helping us achieve this. Throughout the 
year, their commitment, talent and integrity have led to the 
delivery of our strong performance.
On behalf of the Board, I would also like to thank our 
shareholders as their continued support for Fortune Oil 
which has helped us achieve such a good performance  
in 2012.
TEE Kiam Poon
Chief Executive
24 April 2013
The commitment, talent  
and integrity of our  
employees helped us  
achieve such a strong 
performance.
