 strategic report
Dear Shareholders,
Fortune Oil has continued the programme to build a 
stronger and better performing company and strengthen  
the position of our oil and gas operations in China. 
Whilst the global economic recovery remains fragile the 
China energy landscape continues to develop as more 
energy is required to meet the needs and aspirations of  
the Chinese people. Recent unrest in the Middle East has 
led to increasing uncertainty on the oil price. If the events  
in Iraq spill over to neighbouring countries, higher oil prices 
and potential supply disruption could have a major impact 
on global economic growth and associated energy demand.
Meanwhile we face an increasingly difficult operating 
environment. Chinese society is raising its expectations  
of business. Events such as the Sinopec pipeline explosion 
in Qingdao led to increased public and government scrutiny 
of the commercial sector. This growing public concern over 
industrial developments has led to some companies having 
to relocate or shut down their operations, for example, some 
steel and cement plants in Hebei province, close to Beijing, 
are being shut down permanently due to the air pollution 
these plants have caused in the capital city and surrounding 
areas. Similarly in Maoming, close to where Fortune Oil 
supplies crude oil, protesters have been attempting to  
stop construction of a large new petrochemical plant due  
to environmental and health concerns and some of these 
protests have become violent.
It is important that we pay close attention to these 
developments and continue to use robust processes 
throughout our project selection process, construction  
and operation of our assets, ensuring that we continue to 
meet the highest safety standards and do not compromise 
the health, safety or the environment of our neighbours. 
Engagement with the local communities where we operate 
is a key to our success. Our priority is to ensure that our 
operations are run safely and reliably. 
We have also seen increased action by the Chinese  
state to improve the corporate governance of companies  
in China and this has led to the removal of some of  
the senior management of major Chinese state owned 
energy companies. Fortune Oil has always prided itself in 
maintaining the highest corporate governance standards in 
line with our London listing and we will continue to establish 
such best practices throughout our China operations. 
This has been a busy reporting period for Fortune Oil,  
with two significant transactions. The Group completed  
the sale of Fortune Gas Investment Holdings Limited 
(“FGIH”) to China Gas Holdings Limited (“CGH”) (the  
“FGIH Transaction”). Fortune Oil is now one of the largest 
shareholders of CGH enhancing Fortune Oil’s exposure  
to China’s natural gas business. Pursuant to the Share 
Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) of the FGIH Transaction,  
Ms Li Ching has been appointed as an executive director  
Fortune Oil has made  
steady progress across  
all core businesses.
chairman’s letter
6 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2014 strategic report
of CGH with effect from the 10 January 2014. Ms Li’s 
responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s interests  
in CGH, encompassing the FGIH city gas and piped gas 
businesses, LNG ship and coal bed methane (“CBM”) 
development and operations. Together with Mr Liu Ming Hui, 
our joint venture partner in China Gas Group Ltd. (“CGG”), 
who is the CGH executive chairman, managing director and 
president, the Group has strengthened its involvement and 
influence in CGH.
With 237 city gas concessions CGH is one of the largest 
city gas companies in China and is well positioned  
to take advantage of the continued expansion of China’s 
natural gas market. Through our long term strategic 
investment in CGH our shareholders will continue to  
have good exposure to this rapidly expanding market 
through a company where commensurate dividend  
growth is anticipated.
The second area where we have been successful during  
the Reporting Period was to enter into a new 20 year joint 
venture agreement with Sinopec in respect to the Maoming 
Single Point Mooring (“SPM”). This is again a measure  
of our strong relationships with the major state owned 
enterprises since we achieved this new agreement despite 
the original joint venture having expired. The new joint 
venture has been expanded with the potential development 
of a new pipeline and buoy system, although we no longer 
have a controlling stake. 
As a result of the FGIH Transaction and the change of status 
of the SPM joint venture, the Company was no longer able to 
maintain a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange 
but became a standard listed company, with effect from  
20 March 2013. We will continue to evaluate options such 
that Fortune Oil’s listing status meets the best interests  
of the Company and its shareholders. 
The Board has reviewed the KPI’s following the FGIH 
Transaction and decided to remove the natural gas based 
KPI and replaced it with a new KPI; “Total Shareholder 
Return”. This measure is used by many of our peers in  
the oil sector on the London Stock Exchange and we have 
reported this measure in the remuneration section of the 
annual reports in previous years. We have also revised  
for the KPI on “Revenues” to include shared revenue of 
associates to reflect the performance of the Group after 
completion of the FGIH Transaction and the set-up of the 
new SPM joint venture. The KPI has been amended to 
“Revenues including share of jointly controlled entities  
and associates”. We feel this set of KPI’s continues to  
be valuable in assessing how well the Group has been 
performing against its strategic objectives. For the review 
period we met or exceeded six out of the six KPIs  
(see page 5).
The Board sets the tone and values that shape the 
performance and behaviour of the organisation. It provides 
a strong framework within which management can lead 
operations. Mr Yuan Jun has been appointed to the  
Fortune Oil board, replacing Mr Zhi Yulin. Mr Yuan is 
currently a president at Zhenhua Oil Company Limited  
and the Board will benefit from his experience working for 
one of the major Chinese oil companies. I wish to thank  
Mr Zhi Yulin for his contribution over the last 13.5 years  
and wish him continued success in his future endeavours. 
The Board would also like to thank Mr Tee Kiam Poon,  
our former chief executive, who left the Company in 
December 2013. We valued Tee’s drive and determination 
during his time with Fortune Oil.
In view of the changes to the business structure the 
Company is principally an investment holding company at 
the present time with dividend income from each business 
unit as the core cash inflow to the Company. The Board  
has reviewed its dividend policy in light of these changes, 
the overall Group profitability, as well as the future cash  
flow position of the Group, and has therefore concluded  
not to recommend any further dividend for this reporting 
period and that future dividend payments will be dependent 
on dividend income from each business unit.
I would like to end by thanking you, the shareholders for 
your continued support. I also want to thank all the efforts 
of our employees who continue to drive your company 
forward every working day and I’m looking forward to our 
next year and the continued development of the Company.
QIAN Benyuan
Chairman
24 July 2014
7 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2014
