 strategic report
Dear Shareholders,
During the Reporting Period, Fortune Oil continued to  
make steady progress against its strategic priorities.  
I am particularly pleased that we have completed the  
FGIH Transaction with CGH and the two companies  
are now integrated at the operating levels.
Our intention is to continue to participate in the Chinese 
natural gas market through a long term strategic investment 
in CGH one of the largest city gas companies in China.  
CGH supplied 8.0 billion cubic metres (“bcm”) of natural 
gas, in the twelve months ended 31 March 2014, an 
increase of 18 per cent over the previous year. That is an 
increase of 1.2 bcm of natural gas compared to 0.5 bcm  
of natural gas that FGIH sold in the twelve months ended  
31 December 2012 and demonstrates the tremendous 
growth potential of CGH.
Key to CGH’s future is the exclusive concession rights  
to 237 city gas projects. As gas supplies increase we  
see tremendous growth potential for the CGH natural gas 
business as more of these cities are converted to natural 
gas and the gas penetration rates increase from the low 
levels they are at today. The recent natural gas supply 
agreement signed between Russia and China will increase 
the availability of gas, particularly in the northern provinces 
where CGH operates.
During 2013, China introduced long-awaited natural gas 
price reforms which now enables the natural gas price to 
track international crude oil prices more closely. Although 
this will incentivise domestic gas supply, including CBM, 
there are some concerns that the rise of 15 per cent for 
natural gas at the city gate will cause a slowdown in the 
rapid growth in gas demand. Following the gas price 
increases China has also had to raise the electricity  
tariff from gas-fired power plants to resolve the conflict 
between rising gas prices and low on-grid prices for  
gas-based power.
Fortune Oil continues to expand its oil business in China. 
We have entered into a new 20 year joint venture agreement 
with Sinopec in respect of the SPM. The scope of the  
new joint venture has been expanded with the potential 
development of a new pipeline and buoy system.
Finally, our aviation fuel business continues to perform  
well. We continue to see increasing demand for air travel  
in China despite the general slowing down in China’s 
economic growth rate. We now supply aviation fuel at  
20 airports and see considerable growth opportunities  
from the regions served by Bluesky.
The China energy landscape continues to evolve and China’s 
current leadership is encouraging foreign investment in 
some of the sectors which were previously the exclusive 
remit of the major state owned enterprises. Both Sinopec 
and PetroChina recently announced that they will seek 
foreign investment in their downstream fuels marketing  
and pipeline sectors. We believe that this new trend of 
opening up China’s energy sector will present increased 
opportunities for Fortune Oil. We have a major advantage 
chief executive’s letter
We believe that the China energy 
market will continue to grow and 
provide significant opportunities  
for the Group.
8 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2014 strategic report
since we have been working with these companies for so 
many years already. We have been a good partner in China 
for over 20 years already and this will stand us in good 
stead going forward.
In October 2013 Fortune Oil put in place a US$300 million 
(£180 million) loan facility to aid future expansion of the 
Group and we continue to evaluate investment opportunities 
aligned to our strategy.
The Board remains optimistic about the medium term growth 
prospects for the Company in both the oil and gas sectors 
in China, even though the Chinese economy is expected to 
grow at a more subdued pace in future. Fortune Oil continues 
to strengthen its position in the Chinese natural gas industry 
through our investment in CGH whilst our Oil businesses are 
well placed to take advantage of the continued expansion of 
China’s oil demand.
The Armenia iron ore development is still under evaluation 
and, as with all our projects, we are continuing to assess 
the project’s economic viability. However, the Group will not 
make any material investment in the development of the 
project unless there is an economically viable investment 
case. As a consequence of higher than anticipated rail 
freight costs and the softening in the long term iron ore 
price, Fortune Oil has recognised a non-cash impairment 
loss of £41.0 million in respect of the assets in the Armerian 
iron ore project.
I have been working for Fortune Oil since 1999 and it gives 
me tremendous pleasure to have this opportunity to manage 
a company with such potential, working in one of the most 
dynamic energy markets in the world. Fortune Oil is well 
placed to continue to grow in China with a strong set of 
assets and strategic investments, established partnerships 
with major companies, and a dedicated and committed 
working team of employees.
I’m looking forward to the 2015 financial year and  
continue our progress to strengthen the company.  
We have a company which is fully focused and energised 
and set to be stronger and safer as we continue to deliver 
the energy to our customers. I would like to thank you  
all for your continued faith and belief in Fortune Oil.
TIAN Jun
Acting Chief Executive
24 July 2014
9 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2014
