 My key role as Chief Executive of fountains plc is to enhance 
shareholder value.
Since my arrival in May 2006, the Company has successfully 
achieved month on month proﬁtable trading. Before goodwill 
and exceptional charges, the operating loss of £2,077,000 
for the six months ended 31 March 2006 has been reduced 
to £1,644,000 at year end. Our second half proﬁt at this level 
was therefore £433,000.
The Company is restructuring from functional to a geographic 
model which should provide more opportunities to win new, 
proﬁtable business. It is our objective in 2007 to expand our 
market portfolio to maximise growth opportunities and to mitigate 
any sector downturns. As a consequence of the restructuring 
we are reducing our cost base and redeﬁning roles and responsibilities. 
This will achieve step change improvements in safety, customer 
satisfaction, proﬁtability and winning new business. I believe 
that these are the drivers for enhancing shareholder value.
Results
Sales have increased by 15% taking the turnover to £40.4 million 
(2005: £35.2 million). This growth has been across all our markets 
with the exception of rail. The loss at the half year has been held 
by improved performance culminating in the year end position 
of £2,456,000 loss. This is despite incurring exceptional costs 
of £250,000 associated with the EGM and further restructuring 
costs of £150,000, since the half year.
The net operating cash outﬂow of £2,467,000 reported for the 
six months to March 2006 was reduced to £557,000 for the full year, 
a net inﬂow of £1,910,000 in the second half. This was achieved 
by improved ﬁnancial management, alongside proﬁtable trading.
Order book
The current order book has increased from £85 million in May 
to £97 million. This demonstrates our initial success in widening 
our market portfolio with a broader range of managed services 
within existing markets. The most recent addition to our order 
book is the London Borough of Tower Hamlets which adds a 
value of £1.5 million per annum for a ﬁve year duration with 
the option to extend for a further ﬁve years.
The order book comprises ﬁrm orders, estimates of expected values 
of work under framework agreements, and revenue from existing 
regular customers.
chief executive’s report
06 fountains plc annual report and accounts 2006
_0_FOU_ar06_front.indd   6 18/01/2007   16:43:29 07 fountains plc annual report and accounts 2006
UK Forestry
This business continues to perform solidly, with increasing 
demand for consultancy services leading to sales growth and 
enhanced proﬁ tability. UK timber prices have increased and 
there has been good demand for forestry properties. The 2005 
acquisition of fountains Spatial in the USA is offering further 
beneﬁ ts to the UK market.
Rail
This market contributed to the majority of the overall loss in the 
ﬁ rst six months. However, as a consequence of re-engineering 
processes and restructuring, the reasons for the on-going losses 
were eliminated, with the second half of the year showing an 
improving trend. Market conditions remain challenging, with 
short term work packages being awarded competitively, within 
the new national rail framework contract. This model provides 
less security in workﬂ ow. Whilst we remain determined to retain 
or improve our market share, currently the majority of ﬁ xed 
resources in this market have been redeployed elsewhere.
Maintenance
The operations within this division have continued to build and 
develop around higher value relationships, with longer term contracts 
being secured. Notable successes are the expansion of the existing 
Grounds Maintenance work we conduct for the Royal Parks 
by securing Richmond Park in addition to retaining Bushy Park 
for the next ﬁ ve years. This theme has continued with the recent 
contract win at London Borough of T ower Hamlets. This is a step 
change in contracts secured for Grounds Maintenance works 
and is consistent with our strategy of securing higher value 
longer term contracts.
Utilities
Improved growth in sales has been achieved in this division as 
customers demonstrate their longer term commitment to sustained 
and expanded vegetation management programmes. This in part 
is in response to a Department of Trade and Industry directive 
to improve network resilience to the risk posed by vegetation growth.
Our success in this market is reﬂ ected in us re-securing a ﬁ ve 
year contract with National Grid to manage vegetation across 
their whole transmission network in England and Wales.
The growth has been across all our markets 
with the exception of rail.
_0_FOU_ar06_front.indd   7 18/01/2007   16:43:30 chief executive’s report continued
US business
The US business has had a successful year, with turnover increasing 
by 62% on 2005 levels. This is driven by strong interest in the 
US timberland investment market.
In addition, this is the ﬁ rst year of inclusion of the results of 
Applied GIS Inc, purchased for $850,000 in October 2005, 
and now trading as fountains Spatial. This acquisition has 
traded much more proﬁ tably than when acquired.
Outlook
We have created solid foundations to enable us to move forward 
and further enhance shareholder value.
Although we understand the risk we carry with the rail sector, 
the order book portfolio is changing to reﬂ ect our strategic 
development into wider markets. For this year 75% of our 
anticipated turnover is already secured and we await imminent 
decisions on some other signiﬁ cant contracts.
This year we will look for further expansion into managed services 
activities whilst maintaining existing markets.
We will further enhance shareholder value by concentrating 
on strong operational performance combined with safety 
excellence, customer satisfaction, governance and compliance. 
The wider service offering and growing orderbook should 
offset any market downturn and be our foundation for growth.
R G A Haddon
Chief Executive 
20 November 2006
We have created solid foundations to enable 
us to move forward.
08 fountains plc annual report and accounts 2006
_0_FOU_ar06_front.indd   8 18/01/2007   16:43:30
