 Results
Although the ﬁrst half of the ﬁnancial year was challenging, 
I am encouraged by our second half recovery. Strong foundations 
have now been laid to enable us to re-establish a track record 
of proﬁts growth and cash generation.
Operating losses before goodwill and exceptional items were 
£1,644,000 (2005: £736,000 proﬁt). For the second half the 
business returned to proﬁtability with the interim position being 
improved by £433,000 (before goodwill and exceptional items) 
from a loss of £2,077,000 at 31 March 2006. Our US business 
has performed very well aided by a strong timberland market.
The loss before tax was £2,456,000 (2005: £849,000 proﬁt) compared 
with the interim loss of £2,438,000. The full year result was held back 
by the costs of the EGM (£250,000) and further reorganisation 
expenses. In view of these results the board has decided not 
to recommend a dividend this year.
Sales at £40.4 million (2005: £35.2 million) increased by 15% 
across our markets with the exception of rail. Our sales teams 
have been particularly busy over the last several months and 
as a result, partly of the broadened strategy but also of continuing 
effort, the order book has increased substantially and this is 
supported by a much stronger order pipeline. 
The Board
Richard Haddon joined us in May as Chief Executive in an interim 
capacity and his appointment has since been made permanent. 
Richard was quick to recognise the qualities inherent within the 
business, the difﬁculties being experienced and how these could 
be best overcome. His ﬁrst decision was to restructure the UK 
team, flatten the structure and as a consequence remove 
the UK Chief Operating Ofﬁcer role. We also recognised the 
importance of strengthening the Executive Board and appointed 
Matthew Turnock as Group Finance Director.
Strategy
Historically we have built on our core skills to expand the services 
we offer from forestry management into utility vegetation management 
and other activities. Our on-going strategy is to leverage our core skills 
and broaden our offering into managed services. This simple but 
important change will provide a strong foundation for future growth.
With an increasing emphasis on alternative investments for private 
individuals and investing institutions, timberlands have acquired 
a special place in asset allocation. Our US business has beneﬁted 
from this trend and has generated the highest margins in the group. 
We do see further scope to exploit this market positioning and 
develop our knowledge based consultancy services.
chairman’s statement
04 fountains plc annual report and accounts 2006
_0_FOU_ar06_front.indd   4 18/01/2007   16:43:28 05 fountains plc annual report and accounts 2006
Acquisitions
Our acquisition, Applied GIS, now fountains Spatial has performed 
well in a growing market sector and exceeded initial expectations. 
We withdrew from a UK acquisition rather than take further risk 
during a period of difﬁ cult trading. This gave rise to abortive 
acquisition costs of £77,000. Our acquisition strategy remains 
in place but we continue to adopt a cautious approach so as 
not to jeopardise our recovery.
Extraordinary General Meeting
In May the Company received a notice of requisition of an 
EGM from a group of shareholders. They were seeking 
changes to the Company that the board felt would have a very 
damaging effect on the Company, its future and shareholder 
value. On 5 July the tabled resolutions were soundly voted down. 
It was a disruptive and expensive process, which has only 
strengthened our resolve to deliver on our revised strategy 
and return the group to full year proﬁ tability. 
Staff
I recognise and thank the commitment shown by our UK staff as 
they came to terms with trading issues and then external pressures 
from shareholders. I should like to pay particular tribute to my US 
colleagues that have steadfastly continued their progress against 
the backdrop of difﬁ culties experienced in the UK. 
Outlook
The business has come through the year, returned to proﬁ tability 
in the second half, has strong management in place, has broadened 
its strategic outlook and is now able to move forward once again.
B T Gamble
Chairman
20 November 2006
This has been a challenging year for fountains. 
However, we have strengthened the management 
and returned to proﬁ tability in the second half.
_0_FOU_ar06_front.indd   5 18/01/2007   16:43:28
