 Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman’s statement
02
Our business objective is clear; to capitalise on our breakthrough
AmmLeach
®
mineral processing technology. AmmLeach
®
has the
potential to transform the extraction process efficiencies and economics
for many base metals but especially copper, cobalt and zinc. We shall
grow the Company by securing royalty agreements in producing mines
and/or equity interests in advanced projects, in exchange for the use of
our technology.
In my last Chairman’s statement, I confidently forecasted that the
forthcoming year would bring significant progress in achieving our
business objective. I am delighted to report that this belief has been
amply rewarded, with several notable achievements.
Firstly, and most importantly, we announced in February 2011 a joint
venture partnership agreement with Anvil Mining Limited (‘Anvil’) on its
Mutoshi copper and cobalt project (‘Mutoshi’) in the Kolwezi region of
the ‘Copperbelt’ in Katanga province, Democratic Republic of the Congo
(DRC). This is significant as not only is Mutoshi a major project in its own
right but it is our first deal in one of the most important copper/cobalt
target regions for our proprietary leaching technology. Moreover, Anvil is
an excellent partner, being one of the most experienced and respected
mining companies active in the DRC.
The agreement is to build and operate a pilot plant using AmmLeach
®
to treat a total of 150,000 tonnes (‘t’) of cobalt ore for the production of
cobalt metal. The plant will also be able (with only minor modification) 
to process copper ores to produce copper cathode.
Apart from Mutoshi, there is huge upside for our technology because of
the magnitude of the copper/cobalt resources in the DRC Copperbelt. 
It is the world’s largest sediment-hosted stratabound copper province.
The carbonate geology has particularly high acid consumption which
makes it ideally suited to our AmmLeach
®
process. By conservative
estimates, the DRC Copperbelt contains over 190 million tonnes (“Mt”) 
of copper within at least fourteen giant deposits, each over 2Mt copper,
and yet is underexplored.
As well as the potential to make a satisfactory economic return as a
stand-alone exercise, the results from the pilot plant will form part of the
decision by Anvil to undertake a feasibility study for the development of 
a commercial-scale plant at Mutoshi.
Turning to the opportunities for using AmmLeach
®
on zinc oxide deposits,
we recently announced significant progress here too. AmmLeach
®
amenability test work done for Firestone Ventures Inc. (‘Firestone’) on its
T orlon Hill zinc oxide project (‘T orlon Hill’) in Guatemala, and Rio Cristal on
its Charlotte Bongará property produced favourable results.
The Torlon Hill testwork showed that potentially economic recoveries 
of zinc should be achievable. As a result, Firestone requested Alexander
submit a conceptual process flow sheet using AmmLeach
®
for Torlon Hill
and a plan for substantial additional next stage testwork.
Additionally, Alexander and Firestone have agreed to work together
collaboratively to identify and target other high acid-consuming,
carbonate-hosted zinc oxide opportunities in Firestone’s portfolio which
may be suitable for using AmmLeach
®
. This is an important step in
Alexander’s aim of demonstrating the commercial use of AmmLeach
®
for processing high grade zinc oxide deposits. Such deposits are
particularly found in North, Central and South America.
In addition to these important developments, the Company has
continued its extensive discussions with mining companies about the
use of its technology. These discussions have covered projects with a
range of base metals. In most cases, it has led to the signing of
confidentiality agreements and the AmmLeach
®
amenability testing of
copper, copper-cobalt, cobalt, zinc and nickel deposit samples. This has
brought meaningful testwork revenue to offset our administrative costs.
We have continued to devote resources to research and development 
at the University of Ballarat in Australia under the supervision of our
consultant, Dr. Nicholas Welham, for our leaching technologies. This has
focused on other ores, including saprolite nickel laterites, molybdenum
oxides, and mixed base/precious metals oxides (eg. gold/copper,
silver/zinc). The latter, if successful, would open up a major new avenue
of use for AmmLeach
®
as, hitherto, these ores have been highly
problematic to treat.
Our consultancy agreement with RPT Resources has been terminated
but it has been fruitful in identifying many project/corporate opportunities
potentially suitable for AmmLeach
®
. Alexander now has the right to
pursue these opportunities directly.
In tandem with our business development efforts, we have been diligent
with the protection of our intellectual property (‘IP’). A robust IP
protection model of patenting is on-going. This includes the filing of
supplementary patents as research and development work progresses.
Our first patent for ‘Method for Ammoniacal Leaching’ has been granted
in the Republic of South Africa and the patent is in turn, importantly, now
subject to import into the DRC. Our other specific applications are at
various stages of the patenting process.
“Our business objective is clear; to
capitalise on our breakthrough
AmmLeach
®
mineral processing
technology.”
Matt Sutcliffe 
Executive Chairman Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman’s statement
03
In January this year, we announced the listing and admission of the
Company’s ordinary shares for trading on the TSX Venture Exchange
(‘TSXV’) under the symbol ‘AXD’. This is an important step as North
American investors and commentators have both a considerable breadth
and depth of knowledge of and an interest in investing in the global
mining sector. The listing will broaden understanding of the potential of
our innovative proprietary mineral processing technology and increase
the profile of the Company with the aim of facilitating investment and
share trading by this investment community.
We have now completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary
Alexander Gold Group Limited (‘AGGL’), which was the holding company
for the Company’s Argentina assets, for a total consideration of 
US$2.2 million. An amount of US$400,000 was received on execution of
the legally binding sale and purchase agreement (‘SPA’), with 18 monthly
payments of US$100,000 each due commencing March 2011. Along
with the disposal of our investment in Mariana Resources, which realised
a profit of £370,000 (on a net consideration of £470,000), this has
bolstered our cash position, which was £2.45m at the end of 2010.
Outlook
The global mining industry has enjoyed another strong year, supported
by buoyant metals prices. This is despite the volatility in the global
economy and equity markets. The healthy fundamentals for base metals
mining companies, centred upon strong growth in demand for their core
products, should remain. Those developing countries which are the key
stimulants for growth in base metals demand, led by China, India and
Brazil, are still all enjoying strong economic expansion.
In this environment, we believe that the fundamental tenets of our
business plan are well founded and will amply reward shareholders. 
Our strong progress to date reinforces this belief and we look forward 
to the year ahead with enthusiasm and confidence.
Alexander’s significant progress to date would not be possible without
the hard work and dedication of its employees, consultants and
directors, and I would like to record my grateful appreciation.
Matt Sutcliffe
Executive Chairman
9 May 2011
“AmmLeach
®
has the potential to
transform the extraction process
efficiencies and economics for many 
base metals but especially copper, 
cobalt and zinc.”
