 Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
CEO’s Review of activities
04
The outstanding prospects for the Company’s proprietary leaching
technologies are supported by the fundamentals of the global mining
industry, which is under inexorable pressure to replenish its ore reserves
just to maintain the status quo, let alone satisfy increased base metals
demand. This demand is based on growing per capita consumption in
the world’s developing countries.
I am delighted to report that Alexander’s wholly owned subsidiary,
MetaLeach Limited (‘MetaLeach
®
’) has made excellent progress towards
realising the major commercial use of its proprietary mineral processing
technology in the international mining industry.
In particular, the new joint venture with Anvil Mining on its Mutoshi
project in the DRC, and the collaborative relationship with Firestone
Ventures in Guatemala and Nevada, gives Alexander a clear route for the
establishment of pilot plants to demonstrate AmmLeach
®
working on
cobalt (and subsequently copper) and zinc oxide ores respectively. 
We are working on the design of a generic pilot plant which could be
converted at low cost to treat a range of different ores. Successful
outcomes from these pilot plants could lead to the decision to proceed
with the construction of new mines with treatment plants using
AmmLeach
®
on commercial terms to be agreed.
Separately, other work has continued, including testwork on third party
companies’ deposits, and covering a range of base metals, especially
copper, copper/cobalt and zinc. This has led to discussions with other
strategic partners for the Company and our technology.
At the corporate level, we have strengthened our equity capital markets’
profile and capabilities by obtaining a listing on the TSX Venture
Exchange, and appointing a new AIM nominated advisor/broker, and 
a joint UK broker, each with a strong mining research capability and
industry client base.
MetaLeach
®
MetaLeach is Alexander’s vehicle for the commercialisation of its
proprietary hydrometallurgical mineral processing technologies. 
These technologies have the potential to revolutionise the extraction
processes for many base metals deposits, reducing costs, and/or
improving recoveries, and hence enhancing operating margins at the
mine site. In addition, in many cases it will enable the treatment of base
metals deposits which hitherto have not been possible to treat. 
The technologies are especially suitable for high-acid-consuming
carbonate hosted ores.
MetaLeach
®
owns the intellectual property to two (patents pending)
ambient temperature, ambient pressure hydrometallurgical technologies,
namely AmmLeach
®
and HyperLeach
®
. These technologies are
environmentally friendly, cost effective processes for the extraction of
base metals from amenable ore deposits and concentrates allowing the
production of high value products at the mine site (i.e. metal powder or
sheets). These technologies were developed as a result of the
Company’s work at its Leon copper project in Argentina and subsequent
research and development undertaken by MetaLeach
®
’s consultant 
Dr. Nicholas Welham.
Commercialisation of AmmLeach
®
The following metals are particular targets for the AmmLeach
®
process:
• Copper and Copper/Cobalt oxide deposits
• Zinc oxides deposits (work underway)
• Nickel laterite (saprolite) deposits
• Gold/Copper oxides and Silver/Zinc oxides (alkali leaching)
• Molybdenum oxides – testing underway
Geographic diversification is offered as the countries with the most
prospective geology for hosting high acid consuming copper (Cu) and
zinc (Zn) oxides are Chile (Cu), Peru (Zn), Mexico (Zn), Central America
(Zn), USA (Cu), Democratic Republic of the Congo (Cu, Cu/Co), Zambia
(Cu) and Australia (Cu).
Of these, the copper process has already been demonstrated at pilot
plant scale for heap leaching and at bench scale for agitated leaching.
The cobalt (or copper and cobalt oxide ore) process has been bench
scale tested successfully for both heap and agitated leaching.
Further development of the zinc process has led to a new solvent
extraction process for zinc from ammoniacal solutions, for which patents
are pending. This patent application is for the recovery of zinc from ores
which do not require pre-treatment before ammoniacal leaching. 
A patent covering a process allowing selective leaching of zinc from
sideritic zinc ores has also been applied for.
“The outstanding prospects for the
Company’s proprietary leaching
technologies are supported by the mining
industry's inexorable pressure to
replenish its ore reserves.”
Martin Rosser
Chief Executive Officer Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
CEO’s Review of activities
05
DEMAND FOR BASE METALS, INCLUDING
COPPER AND ZINC, IS FORECAST 
TO DOUBLE IN THE NEXT 15-20 YEARS.
METALEACH WILL REVOLUTIONISE THE EXTRACTION
PROCESSES FOR MANY BASE METALS DEPOSITS BY
REDUCING COSTS, ENHANCING OPERATING MARGINS
AND INCREASING PRODUCTION.
DEMAND
“MetaLeach Limited, our wholly owned
subsidiary company continues to develop
and commercialise our proprietary new
mineral processing technologies.” Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
CEO’s Review of activities
06
Because of the tailored pre-treatment step, almost any ore type is
amenable to the AmmLeach
®
process. Thus far, it has been
demonstrated on predominantly oxide ores but some sulphides have
also been shown to leach after appropriate pre-treatment. This advance
allows the treatment of mixed oxide-sulphide ores which are often
present in the transition from weathered to un-weathered ore. As a
project proceeds, the AmmLeach
®
process can be modified to cope 
with the changing mineralogy from oxide to sulphide without substantial
capital expenditure.
Polymetallic ores can also be processed by AmmLeach
®
with separation
achieved using solvent extraction to separate metals and produce
multiple revenue streams. The minimisation of ammonia transfer allows
these metals to be recovered directly from their strip solution by
precipitation, crystallisation or electrowinning.
The alkaline conditions used in the AmmLeach
®
process allow precious
metals to be recovered from the base metal depleted heap using a
secondary leach step. The heap can simply be washed to recover
ammonia and subjected to standard alkaline cyanidation to recover gold
and silver. The incorporation of precious metals recovery within the
AmmLeach
®
process is being investigated and preliminary work on the
leaching of cyanide consuming metals prior to precious metal leaching
with cyanide looks highly promising.
Business plan
A flexible dual approach to commercialisation has been adopted. This
encompasses the use of our technology in exchange for royalties/licence
fees and/or minority equity interests in projects. As a result, we have had,
and continue to have, discussions with multinational, major, intermediate
and junior companies about using the Company’s leaching technology,
principally for copper, copper/cobalt and zinc.
The important initial stage to potential commercialisation involves
amenability testing of third party ore samples. This testwork is carried 
out at the research and development facility at the University of Ballarat
in Australia and supervised by our consultant Dr Nicholas Welham and
commercial laboratories. Most of these discussions and testwork
programmes are subject to confidentiality agreements; however three
situations, with Anvil Mining (copper and cobalt), Firestone Ventures and
Rio Cristal (both zinc) have advanced to the stage where announcements
have been made.
Partnership with Anvil Mining
Alexander has signed a joint venture agreement (‘JV’) with Anvil to build
and operate a pilot plant to treat 150,000t of cobalt ore at its Mutoshi
deposit in the Kolwezi region of the Katanga province in the DRC.
The pilot plant will utilise AmmLeach
®
to process cobalt ore from a
cobalt rich zone at the Mutoshi deposit, for the production of cobalt
metal. Under the terms of the JV , the construction and development of
the Pilot Plant is conditional upon Alexander obtaining financing. 
The JV will be managed by a joint operating committee; with technical
specialists from both Alexander and Anvil working closely together. The
construction programme for the pilot plant is to be produced and agreed
by the joint operating committee.
The Mutoshi Project lies 10km east of Kolwezi in the Katanga Province
and is owned by Société Minière de Kolwezi sprl (‘SMK’), an exploration
and mining joint venture between Anvil (70%), and La Générale Des
Carrières et des Mines (Gécamines), the DRC state-owned mining
company (30%). Laboratory amenability testwork using AmmLeach
®
has shown high recoveries should be achievable.
Anvil will be responsible for supplying a minimum of 150,000t of cobalt
ore to the pilot plant, as well as providing access and infrastructure
support for construction of the pilot plant. Revenue generated from the
sale of cobalt produced from the pilot plant shall be used first, to repay
Alexander’s capital and operating costs; second, to repay costs incurred
by Anvil; and third, any remaining revenue is to be distributed equally
between Alexander and Anvil.
“An AmmLeach
®
demonstration plant
operating in the Copperbelt region of the
DRC would be ideally placed for
capitalising on the huge strategic
opportunity due to the superabundance 
of high acid consuming carbonate
copper-cobalt deposits.” “One of the key benefits of the
AmmLeach
®
process is that, unlike some
new technologies, it requires no special
purpose built equipment.”
“The process utilises ammonia based
chemistry to selectively extract metals
from ores under ambient temperature 
and pressure conditions.”
Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
CEO’s Review of activities
07
The results from the pilot plant will form part of a decision by Anvil on
progressing to a feasibility study for the development of a commercial-
scale plant at Mutoshi.
As already announced, other parties have been in discussions about
using AmmLeach
®
in the Copperbelt due to the potentially large capital
and operating cost savings. Accordingly, an AmmLeach
®
pilot plant
operating in the region would be ideally placed for capitalising on the
huge strategic opportunity presented by the Copperbelt due to the
superabundance of high acid consuming carbonate copper-cobalt
deposits. The plant will be modular and transportable and will have
scope for toll treating in the region as well as allowing for the testing 
of other deposits.
In March last year, Alexander released the findings of an independent
technical expert’s report, prepared by David Lunt of Stirling Process
Engineering Pty Ltd., that was commissioned to examine the potential
capital and operating cost savings for building and operating a typical
50,000t and 100,000t per annum copper-cobalt mine in the DRC using
AmmLeach
®
, compared with conventional processing technology using
sulphuric acid. The results of this study indicated that under the two
scenarios using heap leaching and agitated leaching, there should be
substantial capital and operating cost savings by using the AmmLeach
®
technology. The savings ranged from around 30% for capital and around
42% per annum for operating costs.
Collaboration with Firestone Ventures
Alexander recently announced news of several developments for
AmmLeach
®
with Firestone Ventures and its portfolio of zinc oxide
projects and properties.
AmmLeach
®
amenability test work for Firestone on its Torlon Hill zinc
oxide project in Guatemala had produced highly favourable results. This
is significant for Alexander’s aim of demonstrating the commercial use of
AmmLeach
®
for processing high grade zinc oxide deposits.
Firestone’s road-accessible Torlon Hill zinc-lead-silver deposit in
Guatemala is hosted in high acid-consuming rock. Smithsonite (ZnCO 3)
is the prevalent zinc mineral at Torlon Hill, occurring as a replacement to
limestone, and resulting in high grade mineralisation locally exceeding
40% zinc. For eleven selected representative zinc oxide ore samples,
where the head grade assays were > _ 6.99% zinc, the average zinc
dissolution using AmmLeach
®
was 79% and hence potentially high
recoveries of >75% should be achievable. It is anticipated that recoveries
could further be improved by optimisation of the leaching conditions.
Firestone requested that Alexander arrange for a conceptual process
flow sheet for Torlon Hill using AmmLeach
®
, as well as a plan for
substantial additional next stage testwork.
The Study will help Firestone to decide, in discussion with Alexander, on
the next steps to advance the project using the AmmLeach
®
process. 
In which case, additional metallurgical testwork would be required. 
This would be in the form of:
• Further bench-scale work
• Heap leach column testing
• A demonstration scale pilot plant.
Commercial terms would be agreed between Firestone, Alexander and
MetaLeach at that time.
As well as Torlon Hill, Firestone has its Quetzal property and a significant
land position throughout a historical carbonate hosted zinc-lead-silver
district extending across a 250km belt in Guatemala. Scant modern
exploration has taken place in the carbonate belt despite the historical
mining of numerous oxide and sulphide zinc occurrences on surface.
Firestone is currently evaluating and sampling a number of these
occurrences.
In addition, preliminary stage amenability tests using the AmmLeach
®
process on two grab samples, with grades of 15.3% and 16.3% zinc,
from Firestone’s Black Mountain and Antelope zinc properties in Nevada,
USA, produced high leaching recoveries. Further work on representative
samples is warranted, pending completion of exploration drilling
programmes by Firestone. Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
CEO’s Review of activities
08
Rio Cristal testwork
Initial AmmLeach
®
amenability test work on Rio Cristal’s Charlotte
Bongará zinc oxide property (‘Charlotte Bongará’) in Peru produced
encouraging results. For the sample provided from a section of high
grade drill core, favourable levels of zinc dissolution using AmmLeach
®
were achieved. Based on the high levels of zinc dissolution, using
AmmLeach
®
could be a viable commercial scale process to use for
processing at Charlotte Bongará. Alexander and Rio Cristal are now
discussing additional AmmLeach
®
amenability testwork on more
representative samples.
RPT Resources agreement
Notice was received in April 2011 from ArPetrol Ltd., formerly RPT
Resources Ltd., that it had concluded a transaction whereby it was solely
engaged in oil and gas exploration and it had therefore terminated the
commercial consultancy agreement with MetaLeach. Nevertheless,
valuable work was done for the duration of the agreement and it was
agreed that Alexander had the right to pursue any introduced mining
project opportunities directly, including Firestone Ventures. 
Intellectual property
MetaLeach
®
has a portfolio of Australian and international patents and
patent applications to protect its technologies and data. The strategy for
protection is the development of unique intellectual property and
patenting key aspects of its AmmLeach
®
and HyperLeach
®
inventions 
in a number of countries. This strategy has been implemented through
Wrays, our patent attorneys in Western Australia, and is designed to
allow the Company to protect the commercialisation of its technologies
in key countries of interest in the world. Other specific claims are at
various stages of the patenting process. As mentioned in the Chairman’s
statement, our first patent for ‘Method for Ammoniacal Leaching’ has
been granted in the Republic of South Africa. This is positive as it is also
the route for the patent import into the DRC.
The HyperLeach
®
process
The HyperLeach
®
process is a proprietary process for the extraction of
metals, especially copper, zinc, nickel, cobalt, molybdenum and rhenium
from sulphide ore deposits and concentrates. The process utilises
chlorine based chemistry to solubilise metals from ores under ambient
temperature and pressure conditions. The HyperLeach
®
process can 
be operated as either heap leach or tank leach.
Great promise has been shown on molybdenum – rhenium sulphide 
ores with low reagent consumption making heap leaching of such ores
economically feasible for the first time. Preliminary tank leaching of
flotation tailings has also been conducted with considerable success.
HyperLeach
®
can be used as a pretreatment for AmmLeach
®
to provide
the best of both processes. HyperLeach
®
solubilises and mobilises target
metals from sulphides with AmmLeach
®
leaching the target metals
selectively. This combination allows processing of a whole orebody from
the oxide cap through the transition zone to the sulphide basement. Company Overview
Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
CEO’s Review of activities
09
Argentina
Alexander has completed the sale of its wholly owned subsidiary
Alexander Gold Group Limited (‘AGGL’), the holding company for the
Company’s Argentina assets, for a total consideration of US$2.2 million.
US$400,000 was received on execution of the legally binding sale and
purchase agreement (‘SPA’), and 18 monthly payments of US$100,000
each are due, commencing in March 2011. Signing of the SPA was
accompanied by Alexander being granted security over certain assets
owned by the purchaser to provide a guarantee in relation to the 
deferred consideration.
If the purchaser wishes to develop a mine in Argentina using
AmmLeach
®
then, subject to the execution of a separate agreement, we
would be pleased to agree a licence on our standard commercial terms.
Peru
The Molinetes property is in the District of Las Lomas, approximately
120km east of the city of Piura, the regional capital of Piura Province in
north-west Peru. The concession covers an area of circa 800 hectares.
Although expenditure has been written off, the Group maintains legal
ownership of the underlying licences, at minimal cost. We continue to 
be open to any interest shown by third parties in the property.
Business risks
Inherent risk diversification is offered both geographically and by metal.
When compared with conventional metals exploration companies, the
business risks differ markedly. The stages at which MetaLeach
®
technology is of interest to a potential user is from the project feasibility
study stage, through to existing mining operations. As such, the inherent
technical risks of the mining industry in discovering a potential new mine
do not apply as a deposit has already been found. Further business risks
are referred to in the Directors’ Report under Risk Management on 
page 16.
Martin Rosser
Chief Executive Officer
“Hydrometallurgically recovered metals
are much more attractive to mine owners
than the production of concentrates from
sulphide ores as it results in the
production of high value metals at the
mine site.”
