 FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2009  
5 
 
The group has proved its strength and resilience by maintaining healthy revenue levels in most of its markets 
while implementing a comprehensive cost reduction programme. As a result, we achieved a significant 
improvement in profitability in the second half.  
 
We are pleased to report that 2008-09 also saw the successful completion and settlement of the earn-outs 
relating to acquisitions made in 2007-08, the delivery of positive operating cash flow, a reduction of borrowings 
from £1.04m to £0.85m, a Placing, which successfully raised £0.47m and the acquisition of Life 
Communications in Belfast and Dublin. 
 
Freshwater’s diverse client base, wide range of specialisms and extensive geographical reach continue to be a 
source of strength and competitive advantage, helping the group meet the challenge of difficult market 
conditions. 
 
During 2008-09, we made considerable progress in combining different elements of our regional-specialist 
offering to win additional business. Notable examples include: 
 
• Work for National Grid expanding from Leeds to Glasgow, Sheffield and Birmingham 
• PR support for John Lewis shop openings in Cardiff, Leicester, Poole and Stratford  
• Stakeholder communications activity for E.On in Bristol, Sheffield and County Durham 
• Our first public affairs brief in the health sector 
• Appointment by bed retailer Dreams to handle four store openings 
• PR and public affairs support for High Speed Rail, a consortium of eleven local authorities 
• The launch of the National Blood Service’s ‘blood buddies’ campaign 
• NHS new business wins in Wales and the North West 
• A multi-office PR campaign for Morgan Technical Ceramics 
 
We now have a model for creating combined regional-specialist teams that involves developing expertise 
across the regions linked to the relevant specialist division. These ‘extended specialist networks’ apply to work 
for energy, NHS and technology clients and are now being introduced in public affairs and consumer. The 
group has always had some specialists in the regions but this approach, incorporating training and 
placements, is expanding and deepening the skills base of the business. 
 
The group provided services to 345 clients in 2008-09. We continue to see growth from our larger clients as 
we focus on broadening our relationships with them.  At the same time, the recession has led to a reduction in 
the number of clients spending £5,000 or less annually with us, mainly because of a drop in demand for lower 
value services such as media training. While we expect to see an increase in the latter as the economy 
recovers, we view the former as an integral part of our strategy and are pleased the number of clients 
spending £100,000 or more with us has increased from nine to 12. The three largest clients were National Grid 
– 8.4% of revenue, QVC – 4.4% and Environment Agency – 3.8%. 
 
The revenue from each sector in 2008-09 was as follows (prior year in brackets): 
 
• Public sector     22% (17%) 
• Transport     20% (12%) 
• Consumer/retail    18% (23%) 
• Energy      11% (11%) 
• Professional and business services   9% (12%) 
• Housing and property        8% (12%) 
• Industry and technology       7% (7%) 
• Education         3% (3%) 
• Others          2% (3%) 
 
Public sector revenue grew 15% to £1.47m mainly due to an increase in work for the Environment Agency and 
in the NHS. Other public sector clients include the Welsh Assembly Government, the Welsh Local Government 
Association, the London Probation Service and a consortium of five district councils in Norfolk. 
 
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2009 (CONTINUED) 
6 
 
Transport was our second largest sector as a result of a full year contribution from Waterfront, the public 
affairs business acquired on 1 December, 2007. Now rebranded Freshwater Public Affairs, the division had a 
good year, contributing six of the group’s top 12 clients – Deutsches Bahn, Bristol Port Company, Mersey 
Travel, Port of Tilbury, the Association of Train Operating Companies and the Civil Aviation Authority. 
 
In the energy sector, stakeholder communications support provided to our largest client, National Grid, 
continues to develop across the group. Our Glasgow office successfully carried out its first community 
engagement project for National Grid, communicating with affected stakeholders about gas transmission 
infrastructure works at Drumshangie, near Airdrie.  Our Sheffield office is advising residents and businesses in 
the city about electricity transmission cable replacement. Our Birmingham office is helping to provide 
community relations support to National Grid Property, the division responsible for the remediation of former 
gas works. Meanwhile, our Leeds office has played a key role in informing and consulting affected 
communities in the North East about major overhead electricity line up-rating activity required to transfer to 
England renewable power generated in Scotland, which has now been approved by the relevant local 
authorities and the Department of Energy and Climate Change. The group has also embarked upon the first 
phase of challenging long-term consultation activity required in the north of England, to enable National Grid to 
build high-voltage electricity connections and infrastructure for the next generation of nuclear power stations. 
           
Though revenue from clients in the consumer, property and professional services sectors has decreased, we 
still see these as important markets with potential for recovery and growth. We also have a healthy client 
portfolio in industry and technology, shared mainly between a specialist PR team and Merlin Creative and 
Marketing. 
 
Education is another sector with potential for growth, building on specialist expertise we are developing 
through work for clients such as University of Wales Lampeter, Sheffield Hallam University, Neath Port Talbot 
College and Coleg Gwent.     
 
The acquisition of Life Communications, which contributed two months trading in the year under review, has 
brought into the group a number of new clients including Pepsico, Walkers Snacks and Gala stores. 
 
Waterfront Conference Company, which was acquired in December 2007, faced the same acute difficulties as 
other businesses in the conference market, which suffered from wholesale cuts in discretionary spending. 
After a thorough review, we decided to retain the Waterfront name, rather than rebrand to Freshwater, and 
build on its reputation for high quality policy conferences in areas such as transport, planning and energy. The 
division has entered into 2009-10 with a much lower fixed cost base, an attractive programme of events and a 
flow of bookings that gives us confidence there will be a return to profit in the first half. 
 
The reduction in staffing levels helped the group maintain a healthy level of revenue per fte of £68,001 (2008: 
£69,130). We expect to see an increase in revenue per head in 2009-10 as agreed cost savings take effect 
and through organic growth in some sectors. 
 
Strategy 
 
Freshwater is not basing its strategy on a belief that a recovery will come early. Though we are well-placed to 
benefit as and when the economy improves, our focus is on continuing to develop our integrated regional-
specialist model and build a modern communications business that will, through competitive advantage, 
achieve a larger market share, whatever the circumstances. 
 
We will also continue to leverage the potential of our broad client base and develop new business in those 
sectors and specialist disciplines with the best prospects for growth. This includes meeting the needs of clients 
for whom communication with stakeholders is a legal requirement, often funded from capital budgets. It also 
includes honing our offering in newer areas of activity such as digital media and social marketing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2009 (CONTINUED) 
7
Outlook 
 
The economic environment remains challenging, but the action we have taken to reduce costs and increase 
our focus on relatively stable sectors has given us a robust platform.   
 
We believe our revenue from energy, transport and health sectors will continue to be strong through the next 
12 months, and we are well placed to benefit from any improvement in consumer, property and technology.  
 
Revenues this year will also be helped by a number of significant contracts that were delayed in the final 
quarter. These delays also affected the first quarter but the projects have now started and will help the rest of 
the year. 
 
This, together with the impact of costs savings, gives us cause to view the immediate and long term future of 
the Company with confidence. However in the light of the impact of the economic climate on the Company’s 
trading performance, the Board has decided that it will undertake a strategic review that will include 
consideration of a number of options for the future development of the business. 
 
 
Steve Howell  
Chief Executive 
2 February 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
