 FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2009 
3 
 
As we report our ninth consecutive year of profitable trading, the financial results demonstrate that we have 
been resilient in the recession while positioning ourselves to benefit from our competitive advantage and any 
recovery in specific sectors.  
 
A year that saw the failure of a number of banks, a global financial crisis and the onset of recession was never 
going to be easy for business generally. 
 
Thanks in no small part to the diversity of our client base, we have remained profitable after successfully 
realigning our income towards robust sectors, such as transport, health and energy, where stakeholder 
communications is often a statutory requirement.  At the same time, we have worked to retain a presence in 
cyclical sectors, such as property and consumer, the revenues from which could grow as circumstances 
improve.   
 
We have lowered our cost base which will enable modest revenue increases to generate improved profitability, 
as we saw in the fourth quarter which was by far the best of the year. 
 
While our main focus has been on delivering profitable trading in the existing business, we were able to extend 
our geographical reach to Belfast and Dublin by acquiring Life Communications on 1 July 2009 using funds 
from a Placing, which raised £0.47m. 
 
Our trading has continued to generate cash and all the earn-out obligations from acquisitions made prior to the 
current year have been fully settled. 
 
Financial Review 
 
Though remaining profitable, the group saw its revenue decline by 11% in the year to £6.70m (2008: £7.51m). 
Apart from public affairs and the NHS-focused healthcare division, all parts of the business experienced lower 
revenues in the year. 
  
In the consumer, housing, technology, conference and training sectors, decreases in revenue were caused by 
the downturn in the economy generally. However, in the energy sector, lower-than-expected revenue was 
caused by operational delays to some substantial contracted projects that were due to start in the final quarter. 
These projects have now started and will help underpin trading in 2009-10. 
 
We are encouraged by a 20% increase in revenue in our creative and marketing services division in the 
second half, bringing it back – after a poor first half - to the trading levels achieved in 2007-08. This partly 
reflected greater cross-selling, particularly by the healthcare team, which secured a number of substantial 
projects for NHS clients. We have decided to retain the Merlin brand for this part of the business, both to 
distinguish it from Freshwater’s core PR and public affairs proposition and to take advantage of the name’s 
goodwill value in Wales. 
 
The group began to align costs with the new economic realities as soon as the scale of the economic 
downturn became clear. Staffing levels were reduced from 123 (117 full time equivalents, ‘fte’) in September 
2008 to 94 (85 fte) in August 2009 (excluding Life Communications). We also moved all London-based staff 
into one office in June 2009, deferred the annual salary review, reduced the size of the board from eight to five 
and cut discretionary spending. 
 
The cost reduction programme will deliver annualised savings of more than £1.4m, but the benefits have come 
through gradually and will not be fully felt until the second quarter of 2009-10. Further cost savings 
implemented recently will benefit the second half of the year. 
 
The reduction in revenue ahead of comparable cost savings led to a 56% decrease in EBITDA to £0.61m 
(2008: £1.40m) and a 79% decrease in net profit before income tax to £0.24m (2008: £1.17m). 
 
However, profitability was better in the second half than the first and the EBITDA margin reached 16% in the 
final quarter (2008: 19%).  Basic earnings per share were 1.53p (2008: 6.26p). 
 
 
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2009 (CONTINUED) 
4
Financial Review (continued) 
 
The effective tax charge of 14% of profit before income tax (2008: 36%) was in line with our expectations and 
the result of the Group benefiting from a revision to its prior year tax charge and certain tax losses that 
previously were unable to be recognised under accounting rules.  
 
Total borrowings at the year end were £0.85m, down from £1.04m at the end of the previous financial year. 
We also achieved a positive operating cash flow of £0.41m through profitable trading and strong working 
capital control, which led to a substantial reduction in the relative level of debtors. We had no significant bad 
debt issues during the year. 
 
In addition, we have now consolidated our position on 34 supplier frameworks, including several COI and NHS 
rosters, and are seeing a steady flow of new business opportunities as a result.   
 
Dividend 
 
The board proposed a final dividend of 0.5p, which when added to the interim dividend of 0.75p, made a total 
dividend for the year of 1.25p (2008: 3.0p).  At this level, the total dividend is covered 1.1 times (2008: 2 
times). The dividend was paid on 5 January, 2010 to shareholders on the register on 27 November, 2009. 
 
Board and employees 
 
I would like to express my appreciation to my immediate predecessor, Baroness Cohen of Pimlico, who 
stepped down on 12 February 2009.  Lady Cohen served on the board for two years, contributing invaluable 
experience as we took Freshwater on to AIM and established ourselves as a listed company. 
 
Another former Chairman, Bart Haines, an early stage investor in the business and a non-executive director 
for five years, retired from the board on the same date.  We are grateful to Bart, who served as Chairman for 
two years, for the corporate experience he brought to the company as a former senior executive of Dow 
Corning. 
 
I would also like to thank David Howell, another private investor in the business, who stood down from the 
board on 11 June 2009 after five years. David served as Chairman prior to Bart and has played a key role in 
developing the group’s strategy, drawing on his own business experience in consultancy and commercial 
property. 
 
In June, Edward Carter switched from an executive to a non-executive director role, including the 
chairmanship of the Audit Committee.  Edward, who is a Chartered Accountant and former Ernst & Young 
partner, joined the board having been the managing director of one of the businesses that we acquired in 
2005.   
 
Finally, I would like to express my personal thanks to all our employees, who have worked tirelessly and 
effectively through the most challenging of circumstances.They have demonstrated their ability to cope with 
difficult economic times and I am convinced that they form an excellent team as we move forward in 2009-10. 
 
Outlook 
 
The recession has undoubtedly had an impact on Freshwater’s ability to deliver profitable growth and as a 
result of the impact of the economic climate on the Company’s trading performance, the Board has decided 
that it will undertake a strategic review that will include consideration of a number of options for the future 
development of the business.  
 
However, we have a sound platform for the future with strong revenue opportunities and an efficient cost 
structure.  After a slow start to 2009-10, we have seen continued strengthening of our order book both 
involving new clients and additional work from existing clients. With a combination of that improvement and the 
operational efficiencies that have been implemented, if there is no deterioration in the UK economy, I expect to 
be in a position to report further progress in respect of the current financial year. 
 
Marie-Louise Windeler 
Chairman 
2 February 2010 
