 FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2010 
3 
 
This annual report is published as Freshwater is beginning a new phase of its development as an unlisted 
Company once again and with a focus on profitable organic growth. 
 
An Extraordinary General Meeting (‘EGM’) on 15 November 2010 voted 9:1 to delist from the Alternative 
Investment Market (‘AIM’), accepting a Board recommendation that it was in the best interests of the Company 
and shareholders as a whole. 
 
The Board had concluded that: firstly, changed circumstances meant AIM was unlikely to be a vehicle for 
growth funding for a Company of our size in the foreseeable future; and, secondly, de-listing would release 
some immediate cost savings while also allowing Directors’ and managers’ to devote all their time to building 
shareholder value. 
 
While we are disappointed not to be able to pursue our original strategy, we believe the Company has a robust 
business model and considerable potential for development.  
 
Freshwater is the only national PR and marketing Group that combines a complete UK network with wide-
ranging sectoral and specialist expertise. We have teams in every nation and region and the capacity to meet 
multiple client communication needs in multiple locations, online or offline. 
 
Freshwater won awards in 2009-10 for our work for John Lewis, Basque Wines, Specsavers and Donate 
Wales. Our team involved in golf’s 2010 Ryder Cup was publicly described as ‘magnificent’ by the organisers. 
And our stakeholder communications support for National Grid plc was rewarded last April with selection for 
their supplier framework for another two years. 
 
While it has not been the easiest of periods in many of our markets, these results (for the period to 31 August 
2010) show we have managed to maintain profitability and generate cash to reduce liabilities substantially.  
 
Moreover, we have started the 2010-11 trading year encouragingly well and are trading profitably in line with 
the Board’s budget. 
 
As promised at the EGM, the Board will provide shareholders with regular updates through a quarterly 
newsletter, the maintenance of an investor section of the website and the publication of half year and full year 
results. We also look forward to seeing you at the Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2011. 
 
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Directors’, the Company’s senior managers and all the staff for their 
hard work and professionalism. It has been a very tough year, but we can take pride in the fact that 
Freshwater is a profitable operation providing high quality services to hundreds of valued clients. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marie Louise Windeler 
Chairman   
16 December 2010 
