 FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2010 
4
 
Freshwater has completed its tenth year of trading with its record of consistently operating profitably intact and 
having substantially reduced its liabilities. 
 
Despite exceptionally tough economic conditions, the Group delivered an EBITDA of £0.49m (before making a 
goodwill impairment of £0.76m) on revenue of £5.43m.  
 
At the same time, the statement of financial position was markedly strengthened by a reduction in liabilities 
from bank borrowings, tax and deferred consideration from £2.06m to £1.37m.  
 
This was achieved by a combination of generating cash from trading and raising £0.4m for working capital 
from an Open Offer to shareholders in April (after expenses and the costs and consideration relating to the 
acquisition of Profileplus UK Limited in Edinburgh). 
 
Financial Review 
 
The maintenance of profitability and a reduction in liabilities were all the more remarkable in the context of the 
impact on Freshwater’s markets of the recession, political uncertainties and cuts in public spending.  
 
Overall, annual revenue of £5.43m was 19% below the £6.70m achieved in the previous year and additional 
cost savings of more than £1.3m were required to protect margins.  
 
Almost all parts of the business were affected to some degree by the adverse trading conditions. However, our 
stakeholder communications work for National Grid plc grew 35% and the Creative division had a strong 
second half, mainly as a result of winning a substantial contract to provide marketing and event management 
support for Wales, The True Taste Awards. 
 
Profitability increased in the second half as a whole as the benefits of cost savings came through. However, 
this was mainly because of a strong third quarter in which EBITDA reached 15%. The final quarter saw 
EBITDA drop to 8% because several NHS communication projects were put on hold due to an unexpected 
Government decision to reorganise healthcare. 
 
The Group has nevertheless started its 2010-11 trading year encouragingly well with the business trading 
profitably and revenue holding steady in the first quarter. Meanwhile, we have also secured confirmation of 
several major projects that will underpin the rest of the year. 
 
The Board’s primary objective is to achieve sufficient profitable growth in 2010-11 to largely eliminate the 
Group’s remaining bank and earn-out liabilities by the year end, thus creating a strong financial platform for 
further growth. Following the decision by shareholders to de-list from AIM, the management team is in a 
position to focus all its energy on this goal.  
 
Dividend 
 
No interim dividend was paid during the year, and the Board is recommending that there should also not be a 
final dividend in order to conserve cash to improve the Group’s financial position. We are, however, conscious 
of the importance of giving shareholders an ongoing return on their investment and will resume dividend 
payments at an appropriate level as soon as circumstances permit. 
 
Operational Review 
 
Freshwater’s competitive advantage derives from it being the only national PR and marketing Group that offers 
a complete UK-wide network of offices. 
 
The Group continues, despite the downsizing of the last two years, to have a presence in all the nations and 
regions of the UK and is able to provide major national clients with multiple services in multiple locations, 
online and offline. 
 
Clients for whom Freshwater provided a mix of services in more than one location in 2009-10 include John 
Lewis, E.On, National Grid, High Speed Rail, Kingspan, Basque Wines, Specsavers, Football Association of 
Wales and Ryder Cup Europe. 
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2010 
5 
 
Significant new business successes since the interim results include: 
 
• Life Communications appointed to work on General Mills brands El Paso and Green Giant in 2010 and 
will be working across a wider portfolio in 2011, including Nature Valley and Betty Crocker. 
• Public Affairs won projects for Deutsche Bahn, First Transpennine Express, Leeds City Region 
Partnership, Forth Ports, RAC Foundation and Inchcape Shipping.  
• Technology team expanded its role for Morgan Crucible plc to cover Thermal Ceramics as well as 
Technical Ceramics. 
• Profileplus chosen to handle destination PR for Scotland’s Islands, appointed by distiller Morrison 
Bowmore and given a wider brief by the Drambuie Liqueur Company. 
• Glasgow office commissioned to handle projects for Bellway and Redrow for first time for two years 
• Mixed Creative and PR team produced 150-page document for a Football Association of Wales bid to 
host a major European event. 
• Cardiff appointed to provide consultancy and PR for the University of Wales. 
• Wales team’s Ryder Cup contract extended to April 2011 to cover legacy PR. 
• Consumer team won further contract with online and catalogue retailers, Bon Prix. 
• Creative commissioned on a variety of event, DVD, media buying and other marketing projects for 
clients such as Cardiff Harbour Authority, Linde, Castleoak, Harp International and Barry Waterfront 
(Persimmon, Taylor Wimpey, Barratt).  
• Selected for Welsh Assembly Government supplier matrix for creative and event services. 
 
In addition, Freshwater is handling a number of new projects for National Grid plc since being selected in April 
2010 for its supplier framework for another two years. The Group is currently undertaking work for National 
Grid covered by purchase orders with an unspent value of £0.68m, including initial stakeholder engagement 
for the North West Coast Connections. 
 
The Group provided services to a total of 303 clients during 2009-10. The largest client was National Grid plc 
with 14% (£0.76m) of revenue. The top 20 clients, including National Grid, accounted for 51% (£2.80m) of 
revenue. 
 
Client revenue from each sector in 2009-10 was as follows (prior year in brackets): 
 
Public sector      23% (22%) 
Consumer and retail    22% (18%) 
Transport      16% (20%) 
Utilities      14% (11%) 
Housing and property    8% (8%) 
Professional and business services  7% (9%) 
Industry and technology    5% (7%) 
Leisure and hospitality    4% (1%) 
Other       1% (4%)     
 
The public sector revenue share reflects the strong performance of Healthcare until the final quarter and 
Creative’s success in being appointed to handle the marketing and event management for the Wales, The 
True Taste Awards. While the latter is confirmed for 2011, work in the NHS remains unpredictable and the 
Group currently receives less than 15% of its revenue from the public sector. 
 
Consumer and retail revenue remains healthy because of a strong performance by Life Communications in 
Ireland and work in Britain for clients such as John Lewis, Bon Prix and Specsavers. 
 
Revenue from transport clients fell in the year, but this was mainly because they use our specialist Public 
Affairs service, which was affected by the General Election. We see transport as a growth area in 2010-11, 
with prospects for providing a wider range of services. 
 
Utilities is another growth area, not only because of the increasing requirements of National Grid but also 
because there are more major investment projects in the energy sector requiring stakeholder communications. 
 
Leisure and Hospitality has emerged as a significant sector because of the acquisition of Profileplus in 
Edinburgh, and we see potential for building on this.     
  FRESHWATER UK PLC 
This draft produced on 20/11/2006   18:22 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2010 
6 
 
   
Strategy 
 
Freshwater’s strategy of concentrating on profitable organic growth is summed up in an action plan we are 
calling ‘Focus on Fundamentals’. 
 
The main points of the first phase of the plan, most of which have been implemented, are: 
 
• Reducing the number of profit centres from 12 to 7 in 2010-11 
• Appointing Managing Directors’ responsible for profit centres and incentivised to deliver their budgets 
• Creating a new 10 strong operational management team consisting of Executive Directors’ and MDs 
• Focusing Group new business activity around growth specialisms such as stakeholder communications 
and digital media and growth sectors such as energy and transport 
• Producing new marketing collateral, including separate websites aimed at growth sectors 
• Further tightening discipline in relation to costs, debtors and cash flow 
• Introducing a common system of account management planning to maximise utilisation of staff time and 
increase revenue per head. 
• Appointing a Director responsible for best practice and innovation to enhance client service, 
development and retention.  
  
The strategy is still evolving, and we look forward to giving shareholders an update at the AGM in January. 
 
 
 
 
 
Steve Howell 
Chief Executive 
16 December 2010 
