 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to report a year of signiﬁcant operational progress: record attrib-
utable silver production, the completion of development works and start-up 
of operations at Soledad-Dipolos, advances at the Saucito project, substantial 
increase in total resources, and mineralisation extended at our major explora-
tion prospects. We enter 2010 with a strong cash position and no debt.
These results are the outcome of a strategy designed to create value across 
precious metals cycles: a focus both on operational excellence in maximis-
ing current assets, and on delivering long-term growth through ore reserve 
replacement and expansion into new projects.
We have a strong foundation upon which to deliver on this commitment 
to stakeholders:
 Leadership: The Fresnillo Group is the world’s leading primary silver 
producer and Mexico’s second largest gold producer. Among our global 
precious metals peers, we are ranked in the lowest quartile on the cash 
cost curve. Leadership is also an attribute exempliﬁed on the ground 
through our people. The Group’s professionals make a substantial differ-
ence in where we choose to explore, how prospects are evaluated, the 
pace at which projects are developed, the efﬁciency with which we oper-
ate our assets, and the effectiveness of our administrative processes.
 Quality: We have world-class, low-cost precious metal assets, including 
the largest silver mine in the world. At 31 December 2009 we had double- LEADERSHIP . QUALITY. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. Chief Executive’s statement
5
digit reserve life at all our mines and attributable reserves 
of 374.0 million ounces of silver and 4.3 million ounces of 
gold. This is an indication of the quality of our mine devel-
opment and exploration efforts. 
 Sustainable growth: We have an extensive portfolio of 
high quality exploration projects and prospects, along with the 
largest land position for precious metals exploration and min-
ing in Mexico. In 2009 we once again extended mineralisation 
at all advanced exploration prospects and further consolidated 
our mining districts. At 31 December 2009, total attributable 
resources included 1,289.0 million ounces of silver (2008: 1,115.9 
Moz) and 13.9 million ounces of gold (2008: 12.0 Moz). Our aim 
is to deliver one new mine or mine expansion a year for the next 
four years, starting with Soledad-Dipolos. 
These attributes are backed up by our commitment to sustain-
able development. We have developed a comprehensive health, 
safety and environmental management system that integrates 
personnel training and development. In addition, we invest in 
conservation and biodiversity efforts and closely collaborate with 
communities to ensure that our growth is truly sustainable. 
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
In 2009 we delivered strong performance and made progress 
across all our KPIs (see KPIs on pages 12 to 15). Attribut-
able silver production achieved a new record, rising 8.8% over 
2008 to 37.9 million ounces. This was largely as a result of 
an increase in ore volumes milled at Fresnillo, higher metal 
contents extracted from the development works at Saucito, 
and higher silver ore grade at Ciénega. 
Attributable gold production surpassed our expectations, rising 
4.9% to 276,584 ounces. Greater throughput at Herradura and 
Fresnillo helped compensate for the lower average gold ore 
grade at Ciénega. Total gold production at Herradura reached 
an all-time record with 259,839 ounces. Production at Ciénega 
has now been stabilised at approximately 100,000 ounces per 
year; furthermore, a capacity expansion project was approved 
for 2010 with higher production expected in 2011.
Lead and zinc production, by-products of the Fresnillo and 
Ciénega mines, declined 3.0% and 13.3% against 2008, re-
spectively, due to lower grades at Ciénega.
Market conditions and metals prices evolved favourably 
over the course of the year. By the second half of 2009, gold 
staged a remarkable rally and rose to new historic levels, 
while silver largely recovered the ground it had lost at year-
end 2008. For 2009 as a whole, the market price for gold 
averaged US$972.98 per ounce, compared to US$871.71 
per ounce in 2008, while the average market silver price 
was US$14.67 per ounce, compared to US$14.97 per ounce 
in 2008.
Focused on increasing productivity, reducing costs, expanding the 
resource and reserve base, and strengthening our growth pipeline.
WHAT WE EXPECTED TO ACHIEVE IN 
LAST YEAR’S ANNUAL REPORT
Production at Fresnillo:
in line with 2008
Production at Ciénega:
in line with 2008 production
Production at Herradura:
small increase over 2008 production
Completion of construction at
Soledad-Dipolos
Pre-feasibilithy study for ﬁrst stage 
at Saucito; upgrade/expansion of ore resources
HOW WE
PERFORMED
Silver production 
rose 4.9%
Silver production rose 67.3% but gold 
declined 11.5%
Signiﬁcant 18.6% increase in attributable gold 
production, 38.5% in silver
Accomplished ahead of time and within budget; 
ﬁrst dore bar poured on 9 December 2009
Accomplished 6
A number of input costs were higher in the year when compared 
to 2008, particularly drilling steel, sodium cyanide and tyres, but 
the average 21.4% devaluation of the Mexican peso against the 
US dollar meant that costs denominated in pesos, representing 
approximately 70% of total production costs, were signiﬁcantly re-
duced when converted to US dollars. Combined with greater ore 
throughput, this served to decrease costs per tonne at all three 
operating mines. We also worked more efﬁciently this year, as 
measured in total equivalent silver ounces produced per person. 
 higher average metal prices, excellent operational results 
and lower costs per tonne. Adjusted revenues, which exclude 
treatment and reﬁning charges and hedging results, rose 
12.4% in the year. Total revenues increased to US$849.9 mil-
lion, 18.0% higher than at 31 December 2008. EBITDA rose to 
US$496.6 million, with a signiﬁcant expansion in the margin 
from 46.8% in 2008 to 58.4% in 2009. Net proﬁt attributable 
to shareholders, prior to Silverstream revaluation effects, 
was US$308.0 million, 140.8% higher than in 2008.
There was a 65-day labour strike at the lead-silver reﬁnery of our 
customer Met-Mex Peñoles
2
, where all products from our mines 
are shipped under contract. During this strike we managed to 
export part of our concentrates, precipitates and dore at similar 
terms with no major ﬁnancial impact.
Fresnillo plc has no bank debt, and as at 31 December 2009 a cash 
position of US$312.2 million, 47.3% above the 2008 ﬁgure, which 
shows continued strengthening of our balance sheet.
INVESTING IN PRODUCTIVITY AND COST CONTROLS
At Fresnillo, we constructed a water treatment plant to treat 
sewage from the city of Fresnillo. Instead of utilising fresh water 
 use treated water, which brings environmental beneﬁts to the 
community and reduces our fresh water consumption costs. 
Construction was completed in 2009 and the plant is now fully 
operational. We are also constructing a new shaft to extract 
mineral from the western zone of the San Carlos vein and re-
duce haulage costs. The ﬁrst stage of the project, expected to 
be completed in 1H 2011, is progressing according to schedule. 
At Ciénega, we completed the optimisation of the leaching circuit 
by the year end. We have already begun to see an improvement 
in recoveries, which were further enhanced with the Knelson 
gravimetric concentrator that started operations in Septem-
ber. The sinking of the shaft at Ciénega a further 300 metres is 
progressing according to schedule and should be concluded in 2H 
2011; this project will enable us to gain access to deeper ore re-
serves. In addition, an increase in milling capacity from 755,000tpy 
to 930,000tpy was approved at an investment of US$24.9 million, 
which will increase average production to 110,000 ounces of gold 
per year; this project will commence in 1H 2011. 
At Herradura, the expansion of the beneﬁciation plant to in-
 3
 to 1,600 m
3
 per hour was com-
pleted at year end, allowing us to maintain production above 
250,000 ounces of gold per year. In addition, the laboratory 
was expanded to receive samples from Soledad-Dipolos and 
included the installation of an automated sampler system. 
We concluded construction of the seventh leaching pad in 
2009 and began work on the eighth, and acquired new mobile 
equipment to enhance productivity. 
DELIVERING GROWTH
Our pipeline of organic growth includes two development projects 
and a number of advanced and long-term exploration prospects.  
Construction was completed at Soledad-Dipolos in December 
2009, ahead of schedule and within budget. This project will be 
an operating mine in 2010, with commercial production having 
started in January 2010. Total annual gold production is expect-
ed to be 100,000 ounces, increasing to approximately 130,000 
ounces in the following years with an investment of US$34.0 
million in mobile equipment and leaching pads. 
At Saucito, the pre-feasibility study for the ﬁrst phase of 
the project was approved in August 2009 with total capital 
expenditure of US$309.0 million. Mining operations at this 
world-class silver deposit are scheduled to begin in 2011, with 
expected ﬁrst year production levels of 4.7 million ounces of 
silver and 22,500 ounces of gold gradually ramping up by the 
third year of operations to approximately 9.0 million ounces 
of silver and 45,000 ounces of gold. In 2009, 735,744 ounces of 
silver and 2,880 ounces of gold were obtained from the devel-
opment works at Saucito and processed at the Fresnillo mill.
Results from exploration activities during the year were 
very encouraging:


Of particular note was the preliminary conﬁrmation of ore 
resources at Noche Buena. We have accelerated the explo-
ration programme in 2010 in order to determine whether a 
pre-feasibility study should be conducted. 
In addition to organic growth, we also evaluate potential ac-
quisitions on an ongoing basis. These targets must meet strict 
operational requirements and value creation criteria. In 2009 
we evaluated a number of acquisitions, none of which were 
considered to be in the best interest of shareholders. 
Nonetheless, we are optimistic about new opportunities for 
growth and remain open to potential acquisition opportunities 
that may arise if they are value accretive to our shareholders 
and comply with our strategic and ﬁnancial return criteria. We 
will commence exploration activities in Peru, which has a rich 
mining tradition and signiﬁcant potential for precious metals, 
having incorporated Fresnillo Perú in 2009.
COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Health, safety, environment and community relations pro-
grammes are an integral part of the Group’s activities. I am 
pleased to report another improvement in safety performance: 
once again zero fatalities, and an improvement in safety indices.
2 
Since 2006 the primary products from the Group’s mines, silver- and gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates and dore have been sold to the Peñoles Group’s reﬁning and smelt-
ing facility at Torreón, operated by Met-Mex Penõles S.A. de C.V. (Met-Mex) under a series of supply agreements. See Customer Relationships in the Directors’ Report, page 83.
FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT LEADERSHIP . QUALITY. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. Chief Executive’s statement
7
Our adherence to domestic and international standards of 
environmental performance is evidenced by ISO 14001 certi-
ﬁcation at all mines and exploration ofﬁces. In addition, Her-
radura completed the certiﬁcation process for adherence to 
the International Cyanide Management Code, and we initi-
ated the process at Ciénega.
We continue to enjoy excellent relations with our personnel. 
Annual labour negotiations concluded with the agreement 
of a 6% wage increase, 1% increase in fringe beneﬁts and a 
one-time bonus of 1% of base salary for 2009. Community 
investments this year included education programmes and 
sponsorship of athletic teams, arts and culture. 
Efforts to protect biodiversity are considered within our op-
erations’ planning process, including investments in nursery 
management, reforestation and conservation efforts. In 2009 
Fresnillo plc became a founding member of the Corporate 
Commitment to Wilderness. This is an initiative of the WILD 
Foundation, an international non-proﬁt organisation dedicated 
to wilderness protection around the world. The Company also 
endorsed the Copenhagen Communiqué, an initiative of the 
Prince of Wales’ Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
A full description of the Group’s sustainability programmes, 
objectives and performance may be found in the Sustainable 
Development Report on pages 46 to 59.
OUTLOOK
While we are not insulated from continued volatility in the 
global economy, I am conﬁdent that the Group is well-po-
sitioned to consolidate its leadership in the global precious 
metal industry. We remain focused on increasing productivity, 
reducing costs, expanding the resource and reserve base, and 
strengthening our growth pipeline in support of our strategy 
to create ongoing and sustainable value to all our stakeholders. 
Speciﬁcally, we expect:

 -
tribution from the recently completed Soledad-Dipolos mine
 -
structure at Saucito 

 Noche Buena


Our 2010 priorities and targets are included in full in the 
Strategy section on pages 10 to 11.
In closing, I would like to extend my gratitude to our Chairman 
and Board members for their continued support and oversight 
this year. As the Group enhances its international proﬁle, their 
guidance is vital. To my fellow executives and employees, thank 
you for your dedication to quality and sustainable growth. I am 
proud to be a member of the Fresnillo plc team. 
 
Jaime Lomelín 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
LEADERSHIP
Operational excellence
Leadership on the ground, union and non-union alike, keeps 
Fresnillo plc in the lowest quartile of the cash cost curve.
QUALITY
World class precious metal assets
Record silver production in 2009 and double digit reserve life 
at operating mines underscore the quality of our mining and 
exploration efforts.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Extensive portfolio of projects and prospects
Metal contained in total resources grew 15.8% for gold and 
15.5% for silver in 2009. The Company aims to deliver one 
new mine or expansion per year for the next ﬁve years.
Worker at Fresnillo mine
Fresnillo: world’s largest primary silver mine
Exploration at Juanicipio FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
8
Hoist at the main shaft, Fresnillo mine LEADERSHIP . QUALITY. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. CAPITULO
9
STRATEGY 
AND PERFORMANCE
