 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
2
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Dear Shareholders,
It is a privilege to report that Fresnillo plc has delivered another year of 
strong performance. As we stated at the time of the Group’s initial public 
offering in 2008, we are committed to maintaining our position as the 
world’s largest primary silver producer, with the goal of producing 65 mil-
lion ounces of silver and 400,000 ounces of gold per year by 2018. Results 
in 2009 indicate we are ﬁrmly on track, with strong operational perfor-
mance, quality and sustainable growth across our operations.
The Group more than delivered on its commitments during the past year. 
Silver production reached record levels, planned cost reduction and efﬁcien-
cy projects were completed, and progress at exploration and development 
sites was on target, with the start-up of Soledad-Dipolos ahead of schedule 
and within budget. Indicators of future performance remained strong, with 
double-digit mine life and a signiﬁcant increase in total ore resources. These 
results further underscore the Group’s strong competitive advantages:
 -
ment for mining activities
 OUR STRATEGY
LEADERSHIP – QUALITY – SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
 Continuing the sustainable development of the group
 Maximising the potential of existing operations
 Delivering growth through development projects
 Extending the growth pipeline
 Maintaining strict ﬁnancial discipline LEADERSHIP . QUALITY. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
3
The rise in Fresnillo plc’s share price accompanied a rally in pre-
cious metal prices. Nonetheless, we believe that our ranking as 
the top performer in 2009 among gold and silver miners in the 
FTSE350 Index, and number three among all mining compa-
nies in that Index, are evidence of the market’s recognition of 
our operational performance and the quality of our asset base. 
The Company has the fundamental ingredients for long-
term sustainable growth. The Board utilises a number of 
indicators, as set out in this report, to monitor the imple-
mentation of the Group’s value-creation strategy and to 
measure its effectiveness in delivering against objectives.
We enter 2010 well-positioned to deliver continued 
growth. As of today, gold and silver prices are signiﬁcantly 
higher than they were one year ago, buoyed by momen-
tum in investment demand and signs of a global economic 
recovery. The start up of Soledad-Dipolos as an operat-
ing mine will boost attributable gold production by an ex-
pected 20%. Major construction on the ﬁrst stage of the 
Saucito mine will near completion during the coming year, 
and ore from the project is already being processed in the 
Fresnillo mill and contributing to silver production. 
We have authorised a 58% increase in the 2010 explora-
tion budget to US$77.6 million, which is commensurate 
with our expectations of ﬁnancial performance. Our fo-
cus remains on consolidating mining districts, expanding 
the growth platform and ensuring that our reserve and 
resource base are of the highest quality. To that end, the 
Group will pursue acquisition opportunities that may arise 
if they are value accretive to our shareholders and comply 
with our strategic and ﬁnancial return criteria. (See Strat-
egy and KPIs on pages 10 to 15)
I would like to extend my appreciation to my fellow Board 
members for their dedication and invaluable advice. This 
diverse group of professionals combine a wealth of experi-
ence and perspectives to enhance the strategy and gover-
nance of the organisation. I would also like to commend 
the Group’s executives and employees for their impressive 
execution against objectives this year, demonstrating the 
strength of their commitment and teamwork.
Alberto Baillères
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
We enter 2010 well-positioned to deliver continued growth.
EXPLORATION EXPENSES
(US$ million)
52.0
53.5
49.1
07 08 09
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Exploration is a cornerstone 
of our growth strategy
58% 
increase in the 2010 
exploration budget 
to US$77.6 million
