 Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
06
CEO’s Business Review
Introduction
We have spent the last year diligently working towards the objective of
securing commercial adoption of our AmmLeach
®
technology. Good
progress has been made. Although we have yet to announce our first
specific agreement detailing commercial adoption terms, we remain
confident about securing such an outcome. We have continued doing a
variety of amenability testwork programmes on third party samples from
a growing number of deposits in many mining countries of the world.
Some of these have been announced but due to confidentiality
agreements, many have not. Newly announced countries hosting
potentially amenable deposits are Turkey and Australia. The majority 
of deposits tested are for copper, copper-cobalt and zinc recovery.
It remains the case that the excellent prospects for the Company’s
proprietary leaching technologies are supported by the favourable
fundamentals of the global mining industry. The commodity super cycle,
which started in the early part of the last decade, may have matured but
base metals prices are still at attractive real levels. The outlook remains
positive, with the global mining industry under enormous pressure to
replace its ore reserves just to maintain the status quo, let alone satisfy
increased base metals demand. This demand is based on growing per
capita consumption in the world’s developing countries. Accordingly, the
role of technology in improving exploitation options and economics, and
in particular in the field of mineral processing, is we believe one of
growing importance to the industry.
Our focus has been on securing agreements with third parties that 
will eventually lead to the establishment of pilot plants to demonstrate
AmmLeach
®
recovering the three most prospective metals of copper,
cobalt and zinc. This would be the pre-cursor to a decision to commit 
to using the AmmLeach
®
process in new mines on commercial terms 
to be agreed.
Alexander has adopted a flexible dual approach to the commercialisation
of its technology. We will consider either issuing a licence in exchange for
royalties/and or fees and/or minority equity interests in projects. As a
result, we have had, and continue to have, discussions with multinational,
major, intermediate and junior companies about using the Company’s
leaching technology, principally for copper, copper/cobalt and zinc. 
Progress announced in the last year is described below. 
Red Crescent Resources - Turkey
Alexander will collaborate with Red Crescent Resources Limited (‘RCR’)
to investigate the use of AmmLeach
®
technology for the primary recovery
of copper and zinc from the oxide mineralisation at several of RCR’s base
metals projects in Turkey. In Turkey, RCR is targeting historically
inaccessible areas for application of modern mining and exploration
techniques and technology to develop the full potential of known metal
and mineral assets that exhibit strong scalability and high grade.
At RCR’s Hakkari Zinc flagship project in far south-east Turkey, a full
feasibility study on an optimised process engineering solution utilising
AmmLeach
®
for primary zinc metal production is planned. Furthermore,
RCR has identified secondary potential which it believes to be in excess
of 1.5 million tonnes of lower grade non-Direct Shippable Ore (‘DSO’)
reject zinc material dumped regionally in Hakkari over the past 10 years
by small scale miners. RCR believes this may be a major potential
opportunity for low cost processing using AmmLeach
®
. An early concept
engineering study for the gathering and processing of this mineralised
material is planned.
RCR’s other flagship project is the SIVAS Copper project in north-east
central Turkey. Sivas has promising potential for the development of a
resource base in excess of 150M tonnes grading +1% copper equivalent
(with possible nickel and gold credits). The plan is to deliver early
production through investigating the potential application of Alexander’s
proprietary oxide (AmmLeach
®
) and sulphide (HyperLeach
®
)
technologies via a technical cooperation. 
“The outstanding prospects for the Company’s
proprietary leaching technologies are supported
by the mining industry’s inexorable pressure to
replenish its ore reserves.”
Martin Rosser
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
07
CEO’s Business Review
continued
MetaLeach
®
will revolutionise the
extraction processes for many base 
metals deposits by reducing costs,
enhancing operating margins and
increasing production. Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
08
CEO’s Business Review
continued
One of the key benefits of the
AmmLeach
®
process is that, unlike some
new technologies, it requires no special
purpose built equipment. 
The process utilises ammonia based
chemistry to selectively extract metals
from ores under ambient temperature 
and pressure conditions. Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
09
CEO’s Business Review
continued
DRC - toll treating plant
Along with announced opportunities in the DRC, other parties have been
in discussions about using AmmLeach
®
in the Copperbelt due to the
potentially large capital and operating cost savings. Accordingly, an
AmmLeach
®
plant operating in the region would be ideally placed for
capitalising on the huge strategic opportunity due to the superabundance
of high-acid-consuming carbonate copper-cobalt deposits. 
Alexander has been investigating the feasibility of establishing an
AmmLeach
®
toll treatment plant in a favourable Copperbelt location. 
MC Process Collaboration
Alexander has, in partnership with MC Process of South Africa,
completed construction of an AmmLeach
®
copper/cobalt demonstration
pilot plant in Johannesburg, and has commenced commissioning the
plant using bulk ore samples from the DRC.
MC Process is Alexander’s partner of choice for AmmLeach
®
plant
design and engineering in Africa and it is dedicated to the design and
manufacture of minerals processing equipment, especially solvent
extraction electro-winning (‘SX-EW’) plants. Moreover, it has considerable
experience with designing and establishing SX-EW plants in the DRC
and other countries in Africa.
As part of Alexander’s initiatives in the DRC, we have collected a
significant range of copper and cobalt mineralisation samples from the
DRC for initial laboratory amenability testing. The testwork results have
been highly encouraging and jointly we have now established a pilot plant
at MC Process’s premises. Initially, the plant will be used for testing larger
bulk representative samples which have been delivered from the DRC,
but will be capable of treating other base metal deposit types.
The AmmLeach
®
copper/cobalt process has particular relevance to the
DRC which accounts for around 53% of world mine production in 2011
and 45% of world reserves (source: U.S. Geological Survey January
2012). Moreover, the majority of cobalt currently produced in the DRC is
as an intermediate product. The AmmLeach
®
copper/cobalt process is
simpler and requires fewer unit processes to produce copper and cobalt
metal cathode, resulting in significantly reduced capital and operating
costs compared to the conventional acid/SO
2
process. Given the
inherent high costs associated with operating within the DRC using
conventional technology, AmmLeach
®
has the potential to enable the
processing of a significantly greater number of deposits that have to 
date been considered marginal or uneconomic to develop.
Furthermore, the AmmLeach
®
process may economically treat high
carbonate and acid consuming ore bodies that are prevalent in the DRC
and which may not be economically treated using acid leaching; and is
also ideally suited to heap leaching 'lower’ grade ore bodies.
The results from the pilot plant will be invaluable for design and scale 
up to a full size commercial plant.
The pilot plant will be the first in Africa to showcase Alexander’s
innovative AmmLeach
®
technology producing both copper and cobalt
metal from two circuits in the one plant. It will be integral to Alexander’s
business development plans for the DRC Copperbelt and also for testing
material from copper and cobalt projects in other parts of Africa and the
world. The ability for third parties to see the AmmLeach
®
process
working will be invaluable for its commercialisation.
Altona Mining - Australia
Late last year, Altona Mining Limited (‘Altona’) engaged Alexander 
to investigate the use of AmmLeach
®
technology for the recovery of
copper from the oxide ore zone at its Little Eva deposit, part of its major
Roseby Project, in northwest Queensland, Australia. Roseby is one of
the largest copper resources in Australia and a Definitive Feasibility
Study was completed in 2009. Permitting is nearing completion and
Altona is optimising the study to target copper production up to 40,000
tonnes per annum. 
Subsequently, the scope of the AmmLeach
® 
testwork was expanded to
include representative samples from the nearby Blackard deposit, also
part of the Roseby Project. Four samples were selected by Altona to be
tested from different mineralisation zones at Blackard (3) and Little Eva (1). 
The Blackard deposit currently has a resource of 46.3Mt at 0.63%
copper (291,000t contained copper), of which a significant portion
(~60%) is in what is called the Native Copper zone. AmmLeach
®
results
for the various mineralisation zones showed that this material was the
most amenable, with highly encouraging copper recoveries into solution
of >80%. Alexander and Altona are now discussing the recommended
next stage of testwork for this zone. 
Firestone Ventures - Guatemala
Firestone Ventures Inc. (‘Firestone’) has decided to advance 
investigating the use of AmmLeach
®
at its Torlon Hill zinc project in
Guatemala. Firestone is in discussions with Alexander on proposals for
further bench-scale work, column testing and a demonstration test plant
designed to test further the application of the AmmLeach
®
process. 
This follows on from Firestone’s extensive preliminary metallurgical
testwork on the Torlon Hill deposit using a variety of methods. In June
2011, the summary findings of a study ('Study’) by consultant David Lunt
of Stirling Process Engineering (‘tirling’) investigating the use of
AmmLeach
®
for processing material from Firestone’s Torlon Hill property
were announced. 
The Study supported a conceptual flow sheet using the AmmLeach
®
process in a heap leaching, solvent extraction and steam stripping
process to produce a zinc oxide product. In addition, the adoption of
heap leaching would eliminate the need for milling, agitation leaching
equipment and solid-liquid separation. As a result, significant cost
savings should be possible using AmmLeach
®
, especially since 
no on-site acid plant is required.  Alexander Mining plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Company Overview
10
CEO’s Business Review
continued
Tiger Resources - DRC
Alexander has undertaken AmmLeach
®
testwork for Tiger Resources
Limited (‘Tiger’) on ore from Tiger’s Kipoi copper/cobalt project in the
Copperbelt of the DRC. In addition, Alexander has completed detailed
pilot plant design engineering for the project which it has presented 
to Tiger. 
Tiger began producing copper at its Kipoi mine in April 2011. The Kipoi
Central high grade zone also includes a significant cobalt mineral
resource and the focus of the testwork was to investigate using
AmmLeach
®
to recover cobalt from this material. Currently, Tiger has 
not yet informed Alexander on whether it wants to pursue the use of
AmmLeach
®
at Kipoi.
Anvil Mining - DRC
Early last year, Alexander signed a joint venture agreement (‘JV’) with
Anvil to build and operate a pilot plant using AmmLeach
®
to treat
150,000 tonnes of cobalt ore at Anvil’s Mutoshi deposit in the Kolwezi
region of the Katanga province in the DRC. The Mutoshi Project lies
10km east of Kolwezi in the Katanga Province and is owned by Société
Minière de Kolwezi sprl ('SMK’), an exploration and mining joint venture
between Anvil (70%), and La Générale Des Carrières et des Mines
(‘Gécamines’), the DRC state-owned mining company (30%). Laboratory
amenability testwork using AmmLeach
®
showed that high recoveries
should be achievable. 
Because Anvil became subject to a takeover bid from Minmetals
Resources Limited late last year, now completed successfully, progress
with this opportunity stalled pending clarity of the outcome. We look
forward to discussing the Mutoshi project with the new owners and
establishing their intentions.
Argentina
The likelihood of seeing the AmmLeach
®
process being used at
Alexander’s former Leon copper project in northern Argentina has
strengthened. In recent discussions with the Argentinean purchasers of 
the project, they confirmed their intention to bring the mine into production
using AmmLeach
®
under licence. This would be highly attractive for both
parties as this is the ore body on which AmmLeach
®
was developed.
Whilst the terms for using AmmLeach
®
have yet to be finalised, the
principle of granting a licence in exchange for a gross sales royalty was
part of the original sales agreement. Alexander looks forward to providing
any necessary technical assistance with the project development. 
Intellectual Property
MetaLeach
®
has a portfolio of Australian and international patents and
patent applications to protect its technologies and data. The strategy for
protection is the development of unique intellectual property and
patenting key aspects of its AmmLeach
®
and HyperLeach
®
inventions 
in a number of countries. This strategy has been implemented through
our patent attorneys Wrays in Australia, and is designed to allow the
Company to protect the commercialisation of its technologies in key
countries of interest. 
Importantly and recently, we have been granted a Standard Patent 
in Australia for a Method for Leaching of a Copper-containing Ore.
As mentioned in the Chairman’s Statement, this is especially significant
because of Australia’s robust patenting regime. In addition, we recently
announced we had been granted a patent for Method for Ammoniacal
Leaching in the DRC, which follows on from its granting in the Republic
of South Africa in 2010. Now that our patenting process has been in
place for several years, we are optimistic about a successful outcome 
for many of our other patents pending. 
HyperLeach
®
process
Notwithstanding that we have focussed all our commercialisation 
efforts on the AmmLeach
®
process, the HyperLeach
®
process (patents
pending), although less advanced, has significant potential. HyperLeach
®
is a proprietary process developed by MetaLeach for the extraction of
metals, especially copper, zinc, nickel, cobalt, molybdenum and rhenium
from sulphide ore deposits and concentrates. The process utilises
chlorine based chemistry to solubilise metals from ores under ambient
temperature and pressure conditions. The HyperLeach
®
process can be
operated as either heap leach or tank leach.
Great promise has been shown on molybdenum–rhenium sulphide 
ores with low reagent consumption making heap leaching of such ores
economically feasible for the first time. Preliminary tank leaching of
flotation tailings has also been conducted with considerable success.
HyperLeach
®
can be used as a pre-treatment for AmmLeach
®
to provide
the best of both processes. HyperLeach
®
solubilises and mobilises
target metals from sulphides with AmmLeach
®
leaching the target metals
selectively. This combination allows processing of a whole ore body from
the oxide cap through the transition zone to the sulphide basement.
Business Risks
Inherent risk diversification is offered both geographically and by metal.
When compared with conventional exploration-driven mining companies,
the business risks differ markedly. The stages at which MetaLeach
technology is of interest to a potential user is from the project feasibility
study stage, through to existing mining operations. As such, the inherent
technical risks of the mining industry in discovering a potential new mine
do not apply as a deposit has already been found. Further business risks
are referred to in the Directors’ Report under Risk Management on 
page 20.
Martin Rosser
Chief Executive Officer
