 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
I
n the financial year ended 31 May 2013, Frontier developments 
delivered strong growth in underlying revenue, which 
increased 19% to £12.0 million. Adjusted eBItd A rose 
12% to £3.6 million, like-for-like operating profit was 27% higher 
at £1 .8 million, and adjusted basic earnings per share rose 25% 
to 7 .3 pence (as set out in the Financial Review).
Alongside this strong financial performance, the Group saw 
a number of operational highlights during the financial year: 
Studio in Halifax, Nova Scotia
We opened our first overseas studio, in Halifax, nova Scotia, 
Canada, in August 2012. north America is a strategically important 
region for the games industry. We had been looking at nova Scotia 
for some time due to the attractiveness of the province’s digital 
Media tax Credit programme, its attractive geographic location 
and the new talent pool offered by the existing healthy ICt 
sector and local universities. 
Further Cobra technology developments
We completed the adaption of our Cobra software technology 
to work with 64-bit Cpu architectures, which will allow us 
to continue to extract maximum performance from the new 
generation of Cpus starting to appear in console, smartphone 
and tablet hardware. We now have a proven, mature solution 
for taking full advantage of 64-bit multi-core processor systems 
as used in key new hardware target platforms such as the 
Xbox one, playStation4, iphone 5S and ip ad Air.
Coaster Crazy
We completed development and released a new game Ip , 
Coaster Crazy. t he game was based on our cross-platform Cobra 
technology and incorporated very sophisticated roller coaster 
construction techniques, which are based on our experience 
as a world-leading roller coaster game creator.
Coaster Crazy was our first game with a cloud-based server 
back end. t he game achieved a maximum of over 500,000 
concurrent users with our server technology performing well. 
We released Coaster Crazy on ioS devices and, as with LostWinds 
and LostWinds2 on ioS, the game received significant promotion 
from Apple. In addition we promoted it via in-game cross-selling 
in our own LostWinds ioS games and used third party 
marketing channels.
“ ALONGSIDE STRONG 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 
THE GROUP SA W A NUMBER 
OF OPERATIONAL 
HIGHLIGHTS DURING 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
AND SUBSEQUENTL Y .”
David Braben
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annu Al RepoR t And ACCountS 2013 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC 7 REVIEW OF THE YEAR
FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annu Al RepoR t And ACCountS 2013 8
Strategic overview and outlook 
our investment programme in our platform technology will 
benefit and facilitate better and more cost-effective results 
for our third party publisher games, such as Zoo T ycoon, and 
will also improve our own self-published offering with Elite: 
Dangerous and other games going forward. t he high graphical 
quality and very efficient development we have achieved with 
Zoo T ycoon is a great demonstration of this capability.
Elite: Dangerous will be sold directly to customers through 
our own e-commerce platform and through third parties. 
We are confident that other developers and/or publishers will 
take advantage of our sales portal and cross-platform technology, 
and over time we will cover an increasing number of games, 
platforms, new features and facilities.
Frontier is in transition as our publishing activity with 
Elite: Dangerous and the associated new services ramp up. 
Although the opportunities and scope for Elite: Dangerous 
to grow and develop are very substantial and the potential 
financial rewards significant, particularly given how fast our 
markets grow and change, it is very difficult for the Board 
to know exactly how quickly it will be taken up. For example, 
some pC online games (Elite: Dangerous is a pC online game) 
that have caught the public’s imagination, such as Minecraft 
and World of T anks, have reached estimated revenues of 
over £100 million per annum over a small number of years. 
others have not grown quite so quickly, but on the additional 
platforms the levels of success could be higher still. 
We expect Elite: Dangerous revenues to grow gradually in a similar 
way to other pC online games, but also that it will hit a quality 
resonance at which point revenues would increase significantly, 
as it did for those other titles.
We started the current financial year as we expected and are 
now executing the transition of our business to its next stage. 
o verall, despite the expected reduction in headline revenue 
and eBItd A over the transition, I believe that the continued 
delivery of our plan will result in much greater opportunity 
and returns.
David Braben
Chief Executive Officer
13 november 2013
Crowd-funding for Elite: Dangerous
In november 2012 we started a 60-day crowd-funding campaign 
using both Kickstarter.com and our own website. When the 
Kickstarter campaign closed on 4 January 2013 we had raised 
£1 .55 million, exceeding our ‘ask’ of £1 .25 million. t his was the 
highest crowd-funding target ever successfully achieved on 
Kickstarter. We had 26,834 individuals backing the project, and 
some 8,304 more (at time of writing) have participated through 
our own website since. 
t his clearly demonstrates the viability of the Elite: Dangerous 
project. We had previously been running the project in order 
to develop the key innovative technologies necessary to deliver 
the game’s vision, and this additional funding has allowed us to 
put it into full production. We continue to successfully communicate 
with the large customer/stakeholder community that has provided 
this funding, and this close dialogue and engagement will 
continue to the initial launch of the game and beyond.
Key industry partnerships
We also continued our close working relationship with Microsoft, 
starting development of an Xbox one launch title based on 
Microsoft’s popular Zoo T ycoon franchise, giving us experience 
on the new console hardware early. t his is in addition to working 
with other important partners such as Apple, nintendo, 
Amazon and Atari.
Recent developments
We have continued working with Microsoft on Zoo T ycoon, 
planned for commercial release in november 2013 alongside 
the Xbox one launch, as one of the five full disc-based games 
to be released by Microsoft Studios at the launch of Xbox one.
We announced Coaster Crazy Deluxe for the nintendo Wiiu – 
this game is an extension of our Coaster Crazy title and will use 
more new online functionality. We have taken advantage of 
partnering opportunities with nintendo to promote the game.
We announced a new relationship with Atari, whereby our 
e-commerce strategy is accelerated. We now have non-exclusive 
rights to distribute Atari games, as well as the rights to publish 
our RollerCoaster T ycoon 3 game on new platforms.
We also announced that the Alpha testing phase for 
Elite: Dangerous will begin in december 2013 and 
that we were planning to support the oculus Rift 
virtual reality headset in the game.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
