 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
t
he year ended 31 May 2013 and the current 
financial year are transitional years for our Company. 
We concluded a very successful crowd-funding 
programme to support the development of Elite: 
Dangerous. Since the year end we have also completed the 
listing of the Company’s shares on AIM by way of an Ipo .
We are making good progress from being primarily a developer 
of video games for major external publishers into a business 
that develops and licenses technology to support games 
for major external publishers, other developers and our 
own self-published game titles.
to fund this transition we raised £9.7 million in three tranches: 
£2.7 million came via a pre-Ipo placing over May and June; 
£4.0 million came from institutions that subscribed to new 
shares in our Ipo; and £3.0 million has been provided by 
our bankers through a revolving credit facility. 
I’d like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have 
supported our vision and plan by subscribing for shares.
l ooking at our financial performance in 2013, we saw an underlying 
increase in revenue (19%) and eBItd A (12%). Headline revenue 
decreased by 15%, and eBItd A showed an 12% reduction. 
like-for-like operating profit and adjusted earnings per share 
also grew. t his is explained simply by the fact that in 2012 
we booked pass-through revenue that did not apply in 2013. 
In the year ended 31 May 2014 we expect to further execute 
our plans to maintain our existing valued relationships, focus 
strongly on the development and launch of Elite: Dangerous, 
and continue to invest significant resources in the development 
of our technology for third party use. We expect revenues from 
our traditional publishing business to reduce whilst we invest 
in building the new elements we need for the transition.
I would like to pay tribute and gratitude to the 35,138 (at the time 
of writing) gaming fans that have invested in our crowd-funding 
campaign for the development of Elite: Dangerous. t heir response 
and enthusiasm has been a key ingredient in helping shape our 
strategy. We know that they are an expert and discerning audience 
and we continue to value their input as we work together through 
the alpha and beta phases towards a full public retail launch 
later in 2014.
Finally, Frontier has earned a deserved reputation for excellence 
and quality from its customers, which is only possible because 
of the dedication, skill and hard work of its people. I would also 
like to take this opportunity to thank them for their sustained 
effort and commitment. 
David Gammon
Non-Executive Chairman
13 november 2013
“WE ARE MAKING GOOD 
PROGRESS IN OUR 
TRANSITION INTO A 
BUSINESS WHICH DEVELOPS 
AND LICENSES TECHNOLOGY 
TO SUPPORT GAMES FOR 
MAJOR EXTERNAL 
PUBLISHERS, OTHER 
DEVELOPERS AND OUR OWN 
SELF-PUBLISHED GAMES.”
David Gammon
Non-Executive Chairman
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
6 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annu Al RepoR t And ACCountS 2013
