 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
04
OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
It has been an important year for Frontier, as we have successfully 
started to execute our transition from primarily being a world-
class developer of video games for major external publishers 
into a business with an increased focus both on self-published 
projects and ongoing development and exploitation of our 
proprietary technology platform, COBRA. We have made good 
progress in the transition of Frontier, evidenced by the high 
levels of investment we have made in both Elite: Dangerous 
and also our COBRA technology platform. While carrying this 
out, we have continued to work with many of our valued 
customers for whom we create games. Two of the games we 
are now in the process of building for a new global publisher 
have come from our internally run ‘game of the week’ 
programme where any member of staff with a good game 
idea can come forward and show it. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our hardworking people who have 
contributed their creativity, effort and productivity to our business. 
At the start of the financial year we floated on AIM, raising 
£4.0 million. This was preceded by a £2.8 million pre-IPO 
fundraising commenced in May 2013, which combined 
provides us with the financial means to complete the transition 
of Frontier and capitalise on the exciting growth opportunities 
ahead. David Braben sold a block of shares which were 
bought by both new institutions and institutional shareholders. 
Subsequently we acquired David’s 10% rights to Elite: Dangerous 
owned by a partnership controlled by David Braben via a share 
exchange. We are very appreciative of the support from all our 
shareholders as we continue the transition of Frontier, confident 
it will generate long-term sustainable value.
In the year ending 31 May 2015 we are looking forward to 
the delivery of three games developed for blue-chip publishers. 
We will also launch the PC version of Elite: Dangerous during 
the fourth quarter of calendar year 2014. The development 
of the game has been materially helped by the feedback and 
reactions of our enthusiastic, knowledgeable and critical Alpha, 
premium Beta and Beta backers. When I wrote last year’s 
statement we had 35,138 backers. As at the end of August 
that figure has risen to approximately 100,000 partaking in 
Elite: Dangerous’ development. I take this opportunity to 
thank all our backers.
In future years, starting with 2015, we will see the harvest 
of the seeds we have sown. Frontier is much more than just 
a developer of a well known space game franchise. We will 
continue to very selectively develop games for globally significant 
third parties – particularly if the ideas have been home grown. 
We have a number of games we are considering for future 
franchises that build on our Company’s renowned expertise. 
Finally we are continuing and will continue to invest in our 
technology platform, COBRA.
All these activities are made possible by the various stakeholders 
who work for and with Frontier. I end by thanking them again 
for their skill, aptitude and endeavour.
David Gammon
Chairman
3 September 2014
“ We are making good progress 
in our transition into a business 
which develops and licenses 
technology to support games 
for major external publishers, 
other developers and our own 
self-published games. ”
