 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC
05
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTRODUCTION 
TO THE STRATEGIC REPORT
Our investment programme in self-published titles and associated 
technology will benefit and facilitate better and more cost-effective 
results for our games. The high graphical quality and very efficient 
development we achieved with Zoo Tycoon and the high quality 
of and positive early response to Elite: Dangerous are both 
great demonstrations of this.
Elite: Dangerous will be sold directly to customers through our 
own e-commerce platform and through third parties. Indeed the 
Alpha, Premium Beta and Beta have already been made through 
this channel, as is various supporting merchandise for this 
game. At the end of August we had received approximately 
£6 million from our backers.
We are in a transitional period and we have so far not issued 
financial guidance on the business. Revenues from publishers 
are generally paid during development, whereas with self-funded 
titles, even though the expected total revenue is greater, it 
generally does not come until close to or after the release of 
the title. Taking the novel approach of going for crowd-funding 
and then paid Alpha and Beta phases has reduced this gap, but 
inevitably has resulted in a dip in revenue during the financial year 
we are reporting. The exact timing of this income will critically 
affect the revenue that falls into each accounting period, hence 
we feel the lack of guidance is reasonable.
As we continue to build up the size and number of franchises 
we would expect this critical dependence on the timing to 
become less of an issue and put us in a position to reduce 
the range of possible outcomes.
We started the current financial year as we expected and are 
now executing the transition of our business to its next stage. 
Overall, despite the expected reduction in headline revenue 
and EBITDA over the transition, I believe that the continued 
delivery of our plan will result in much greater opportunity 
and returns, which we are already beginning to see since 
the end of this financial year.
David Braben O.B.E.
Founder and CEO
3 September 2014
“ We started the current 
financial year as we expected 
and are now executing the 
transition of our business 
to its next stage. I believe 
that the continued delivery of 
our plan will result in greater 
opportunity and returns. ”
