 2
Alexander Mining plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Since my statement last year, Alexander
has made important progress towards
the commercialisation of its proprietary
AmmLeach
®
mineral processing
technology.
With the mining industry’s reinvigorated focus and in
this ‘age of austerity’, on costs and return on capital
employed, we have found that the scope for major
operating and capital cost savings using our
technology is of great interest for existing and potential
mines. Miners are now concentrating on wringing the
most out of their resources, largely as a result of
forceful pressure from investors unhappy with project
and mine costs blow-outs and disastrous acquisitions
at the top of the market.
Chairman’s Statement In mid-2012, in partnership with MC Process Pty Ltd of South
Africa, we announced the successful commissioning of an
AmmLeach
®
copper/cobalt demonstration plant in South 
Africa. This was the first AmmLeach
®
plant in the world with 
two circuits going through to copper and cobalt cathode metal.
Moreover, this was a major improvement when compared with
the majority of Democratic Republic of Congo’s (‘DRC’) cobalt,
which is currently produced as a concentrate requiring further
processing outside of the DRC. 
This success formed the background to achieving the notable
progress towards commercialisation last year. This included 
the Leaching Technology Licence Agreement (‘November 2012
Agreement’) signed with Metalvalue Limited (‘Metalvalue’). We
have worked with Metalvalue to progress the establishment of 
a commercial AmmLeach
®
copper/cobalt processing plant in 
the DRC, and to investigate the development of a European
plant for the recovery of zinc from electric arc furnace dust
(‘EAFD’). Regarding the DRC and EAFD Projects, Metalvalue 
is actively investigating the next steps, with Alexander’s
technical involvement, including financing and establishing
dedicated pilot plant(s).
Further to this excellent technical progress, a new agreement
with Metalvalue Capital Holdings (‘MCH’) (to which Metalvalue is
the technical consultant and is the investment vehicle managed
by Metalvalue Advisors SA) was signed, along the terms 
of the November 2012 Agreement, which has been terminated.
This is to reflect the closer understanding of the optimal way to
advance projects in the future. A major outcome of the revised
agreement for Alexander is a doubled gross sales royalty and,
given Alexander’s recently completed equity financing, the
benefit of minimised equity dilution.
We are devoting considerable attention to Turkey, a country
with significant potential for Alexander’s proprietary leaching
technologies. This initiative is supported by the appointment of
Alan Clegg to the Alexander board (see below) who is a resident
of Turkey and where he is especially well connected. We have
reported favourable AmmLeach
®
amenability testwork results
for the recovery of zinc from samples provided by Red Crescent
Resources Limited (‘RCR’) from its Hakkari Zinc Project in far
south-east Turkey. Importantly, the samples were of a zinc
oxide mineralisation type which occurs in several other
locations in the country. 
As a result of initial favourable interest, we have also decided 
to investigate opportunities with German universities, or similar
R&D establishments. The Board hopes that this could see
potential involvement in joint ventures for improvements to 
and research and development of our intellectual property 
(‘IP’), leading to the establishment of a pilot plant(s) in Germany.
In Australia, we hope that the opportunity with Altona Mining
Limited to investigate the use of AmmLeach
®
technology for
copper recovery at its Roseby Project will progress to the 
next stage.
We have also had favourable AmmLeach
®
amenability testwork
results for base metals projects in North Africa and Zambia.
Both are areas of the world holding attractive potential for
commercial adoption.
Underwriting our leaching technology IP is our portfolio of
patents, both granted and pending. The former having grown
significantly during the last year. We expect regular news flow
about our suite of patent applications as they progress through
the various stages of the patenting process.
Finances
We announced in March that Alexander had raised £751,000
gross through a placing of new ordinary shares to institutional
and other investors, and to certain directors and officers of 
the Company. We welcome the significant and strategically
important new shareholders the placing brought, including
those from Turkey, as well as experienced technology investors
in Germany and Switzerland. Subsequent to the revised
agreement with Metalvalue, we have also received from it a
subscription of £200,000 for Alexander shares. Our current cash
position, coupled with expectations for additional consultancy
and testwork revenue, is a sound working capital position from
which to grow the Company.
Outlook
Although the health of the world economy can hardly be said 
to be in the pink, equity markets have enjoyed an excellent start
to 2013. Hopes are high that healthy world economic growth is
within sight. Mining companies have battled these headwinds of
economic uncertainty satisfactorily. However, there now seems
to be an industry acceptance, based on investors’ demands, that
improving margins and a proper return on capital are paramount.
During the period of my review, base metals’ prices have been
volatile and range bound, albeit weakening recently. As I said in
my opening remarks, this is an environment which suits the
commercialisation of our technology given its potential significant
impact on many base metals mine economics. With the progress
and initiatives announced to date and those foreseeable, I am
highly confident in Alexander’s future. 
I am delighted that Alan Clegg has recently joined the board.
Alan has outstanding global mining industry experience,
including extensive worldwide involvement with feasibility
studies and mine development, which will be a major asset 
for the Company. 
Finally, I would like to express my appreciation for the continued
hard work and dedication of Alexander’s employees, consultants
and directors.
Matt Sutcliffe
Executive Chairman
22 May 2013
3
Alexander Mining plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
