 > Chairman’s statement
I am pleased that the Group has continued to strengthen its order
book and win new clients. Implementation of our sales and
marketing reorganisation has had a positive impact on the business
and, together with improved performance, a reduced cost base and
strong balance sheet, Fulcrum will focus on taking the business to
the next stage of its development. The Group plans to deepen its
expertise in drug substance and formulation management and in
pre-clinical and regulatory services and is seeking suitable
opportunities to increase scale.
Business review
Since my report last year, the Group has
taken considerable steps to improve its
performance and to grow the core service
business. These steps included the
reorganisation of the sales and marketing
function, the tailoring of business
development and the continued effort to
increase global sales to new clients. The
tailored approach to business development
has reduced the Group’s reliance on
networked sales and has strengthened the
order book, which, together with effective
cost management and the more efficient
use of staff, has resulted in the return to
profitability in the second half of the
financial year.
Fulcrum’s turnover for the year was £12.6m
(2004: £11.1m) and the loss before tax
was £76,000 (2004: loss of £1.2m). 
The pharmaceutical services sector is
emerging from a number of challenging
years and there are signs that the need
for outsourcing is gaining momentum.
Emerging pharma and biotechs continue to
operate in a difficult funding environment
and strategic outsourcing is proving to be
an important way for them to improve
capital efficiency. In particular there is
growth in drug substance and formulation
management and pre-clinical services,
where Fulcrum has considerable expertise,
and in regulatory services where new
opportunities are arising. In addition, our
global service model enables companies
to operate outside of their domestic
market. For example the orphan drug
regulations in Europe allow US clients to
create value and extend exclusivity in the
market place. Additionally, large pharma
clients in Japan continue to seek faster
to market solutions by outsourcing
development to the US and to Europe. 
Board changes
The resignation of Dr Bruce McCreedy was
announced in September 2005. To drive
the Company’s global service model further
forward, it is intended to strengthen the
Board during the coming year with more
expertise from the service sector.
Conclusion
Fulcrum continues to concentrate on
strengthening its order book and now
intends to improve performance and focus
on taking the business to the next stage of
its development. With a reduced cost base
and strong balance sheet, Fulcrum plans to
deepen its expertise in drug substance and
formulation management and in pre-clinical
and regulatory services and is seeking
suitable opportunities to increase scale.
Professor Sir Charles George
Chairman
18 November 2005
4 Fulcrum> Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Case study 1
Client challenge:
The client required a development plan to reach
proof of concept in an oncology programme, which
met the business goals within the defined budget
and provided development resource which was
lacking in-house. 
Fulcrum solution:
Fulcrum provided a development plan that matched
the client’s budget, identified a team of suppliers 
to execute the programme and provided overall
management of the programme, reporting to the
client as a member of the development team.
Impact for client:
Fulcrum produced a timely and well run development
programme which facilitated progress of a molecule
despite an internal resource deficit. This enabled the
announcement of this new molecule in clinical
study, in line with the client’s business goals, and
generated the news flow required for investors.
_0FUL_arf.05.qxd  23/11/2005  10:42  Page 4
