 > Chief executive’s review
The reorganisation of sales and marketing on a regional basis has
had a positive impact on sales. Having returned to profitability
in the second half, Fulcrum is continuing to deepen its expertise in
key drug development areas and grow the business to the next stage.
Business development and sales
The reorganisation of sales and marketing
on a regional basis has had a positive
impact on sales. Fee sales increased in 
the second half of the year to £3.3m from
£2,9m in the first half year. The Group has
won a significant number of new clients 
in Europe.
Market research conducted in the US was
used to hone our service offerings to the
biotech community. The knowledge gained
was used to execute a targeted campaign
to increase client awareness. This campaign
included sponsorship of, and presentations
at, major biotechnology and partnering
conferences in the US, Europe and Japan such
as ASCO, BECIF, Bio Asia and BioBusiness, and
has resulted in a strengthening of the pipeline
of contracts and prospects. 
Establishing long-term 
business relationships
A core of long-term relationships has been
established in Europe, which has contributed
more than 60% of European sales in the
current financial year. In May 2005 we
announced a long-term agreement with
Syngenta Biopharma under which Fulcrum
continues to provide drug development
expertise and is embedding critical tools and
processes from Fulcrum’s “Document Driven
Drug Development” platform into the client
organisation. In addition, Fulcrum’s
partnership with Addex Pharmaceuticals S.A.
continues to support the delivery of Addex’s
portfolio of products to treat disease of the
Central Nervous System. We were delighted
that Addex were able to announce that
ADX10059 had started clinical studies in
France. This achievement of getting a drug
from discovery into the clinic in less than
three years is a strong validation of the
executional capabilities of the partnership.
Sales from Japan
Our investment in business development
in Japan continues to generate sales from
Japan into Europe and the US. Japan has
contributed 12% of fee sales in Europe and
the US. Our Japanese clients include large
pharma and emerging biotechs such as
NanoCarriers Co., Ltd. These companies
utilise our skill-sets and resources in our
European and US subsidiaries. Fulcrum has
also won contracts from emerging European
companies seeking the opportunity to
create value in the Japanese market. 
Regional performance
Europe
The sales pipeline and order book
strengthened throughout the year.
Encouragingly our business development
team has won a significant number of
new clients in the second half year and
has delivered cross sales to the US office
and Japan. Whilst sales in Europe have
decreased by 10% over the previous year
as a result of the weak order book at the
start of the year, the performance in the
second half has been good.
Significant cost savings have been achieved
in this financial year. This includes £230,000
of permanent annual savings, the majority
of which relate to the reorganisation of
sales and marketing and the remainder 
is the rent differential on the relocation 
of the UK office. 
Fulcrum> Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
Case study 2
Client challenge:
After in-licencing a CNS compound with a history
of difficult pre-clinical studies, the client wished to
develop an FTIM pre-clinical toxicology and ADME
package within an extremely tight timeline
(four months from GLP material to draft reports).
Fulcrum solution:
Fulcrum provided a pre-qualified CRO team with
all CRO contractual arrangements established
before studies started. Fulcrum were able to
provide flexibility of response when issues arose
which might have jeopardised the timeline. Fulcrum
tightly monitored the budget and timelines, saving
over €100,000 in cost and over 16 weeks in time.
Impact for client:
The client met the timelines within budget for this
challenging programme, enabling key decisions
about the future of the programme to be made.
A CTA is scheduled for late 2005 and subsequently
the product is expected to enter phase 1 development.
The ultimate aim is to outlicense the product with 
a strong support package.
_0FUL_arf.05.qxd  23/11/2005  10:42  Page 5 > Chief executive’s review 
The cornerstones of the Group’s strategy are:
> Grow the service business in three regions and develop the
global service model
> Increase scale
> Regulatory, pre-clinical, drug substance and formulation
> Add further value through 
> Long-term relationships
> Risk sharing
Regional performance (continued)
US
The US subsidiary has continued to grow
through its domestic customer base, with
cross sales from Japan and the provision
of resources to the European subsidiary.
The latter has allowed efficient use of
global resources. Overall US fee sales have
grown by circa 20% compared with the
same period last year. 
Japan 
The Japanese Group has matured into
a specialist oncology CRO and regulatory
group to meet the needs of the local
market. Japan had a slow start to the year
but made a substantial recovery in the
second half. Our specialist oncology CRO
has gained significant orders for the next
two years including a phase II study with a
major US biotech. The study was won as a
result of delivering a successful pilot project. 
Future strategy
Having returned to profitability in the second
half, Fulcrum is continuing to deepen its
expertise in key drug development areas and
grow the business to the next stage. The
cornerstones of the Group’s strategy remain:
1. Grow the service business in three
regions and develop the global
service model
2. Increase scale
– Regulatory, pre-clinical, drug
substance and formulation 
3. Add further value through
– Long-term relationships 
– Risk sharing
Prospects and outlook
The pharma and biotech outsourcing market
remains competitive. However, companies
increasingly need to demonstrate efficient
use of capital and improved productivity.
These factors are driving drug developers
towards outsourcing as a core strategy.
With stronger order books over last year
the Group looks set to improve
profitability further. 
Jon Court
Chief Executive
18 November 2005
6 Fulcrum> Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Case study 3 
Client challenge
The client, a research-based company with little
development resource, had in-licensed a novel
analgesic with a broad range of potential analgesic
target indications. The client’s need was for a rapid,
focused development programme to proof of
concept, generating a quality data-package to
support out-licencing. 
Fulcrum solution
Using a Fulcrum in-house project team consisting of
programme management, CMC, toxicology, clinical
and regulatory expertise, Fulcrum prepared a target
product profile and identified key points and study
designs for a detailed development plan. This
development plan covered all activities from synthesis
of drug substance, full safety and toxicology
pre-clinical work and a clinical programme of studies
to proof of concept. Full development costs and
timelines were included and the programme was
designed to give the fastest route to clinical studies,
with contingency planning for the associated risks. 
Fulcrum then implemented the programme through
selection and management of suppliers in the CMC,
pre-clinical, regulatory and clinical areas. This included
negotiations and management of contracts and
budgets, timeline management and issue resolution.
Impact for client
Fulcrum achieved a timescale of ten months from
initiation of CMC activities to first subject dosed in the
Phase I programme within the agreed client budget.
The client was able to exceed senior management
and investor expectations on progress of the
development of the compound.
_0FUL_arf.05.qxd  23/11/2005  10:42  Page 6
