 Fulcrum ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STRATEGIC REVIEW
Following my appointment as Chief Executive
on 1 April 2008, I have conducted a strategic
review of the business with the Management
Team and Board. The review has refined the
Group’s Mission, service offerings and branding
and confirmed that the Group is committed to
increasing scale through both organic growth
and selective acquisitions.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2008 2007 Increase
Sales (£’000) 14,826 11,503 29%
Cash generated by Operations (£’000) 1,493 874 71%
COMMERCIAL, SALES AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The refined Mission is that “Fulcrum Pharma is a professional service
company providing clients with expert solutions for the development of
therapeutic products”.  
The Group has undertaken a rebranding exercise based on a new
Vision, Mission and Values. 
Following on from the Strategic Review, the main elements of the
business strategy are
• to build a substantial Regulatory business
• to deliver bigger projects from diversified clients from the Product
Development Consultancy business, and 
• to opportunistically pursue chances to add complementary skills to
Fulcrum Pharma’s offerings and alliances with other service providers.
The corporate website has been redesigned and there has been wide
participation at major scientific, biotechnology and partnering
conferences in the US, Europe and Japan. The Group has continued to
look for opportunities to sell services across its geographical regions
and provide complete and expert solutions to clients. In particular, the
business development efforts of the Japanese subsidiary have
generated significant fee sales from Japanese clients for the Europe and
US businesses.
The organisation has been strengthened with the creation of a
focussed Commercial Operations group to lead sales and business
development and a Professional Development group to support staff
development and training. 
As part of the strategy to expand Pharmacovigilance services, Fulcrum
Pharma has formed a strategic collaboration with Quantum Solutions,
India. This collaboration enables Fulcrum Pharma to deliver high
capacity processing and reporting of safety information whilst
maintaining necessary quality standards.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANCY
Dr Sarah Arbe-Barnes has been appointed as General Manager for
Product Development Consultancy (PDC).  This specialist group has
been established to provide global, strategic consultancy to the pharma
and biotech industries, the investment community and the neglected
diseases sector and to lead Fulcrum Pharma’s development
programmes. PDC has the target of winning larger drug development
projects from a more diverse client base, and to pursue opportunities to
retain a greater amount of the project work within the Fulcrum Pharma
organisation. PDC operates on a global basis with staff based in Europe
and the US.
EUROPE
On 1 April 2008, Fulcrum Pharma Developments Limited was renamed
Fulcrum Pharma (Europe) Limited and became the single trading entity
in Europe, with Dr Phil Birch  appointed as General Manager.  Fulcrum
Pharma (Europe) integrated the businesses of the acquired subsidiary
companies, Quadramed Limited and Unicus Regulatory Services Limited
(“Unicus”) with Fulcrum Pharma Developments Limited.  This change
of structure has enabled the integration of processes across Europe and
has simplified the organisational structure.
In 2008, additional market leading services were added
to the Fulcrum Pharma portfolio. These additions
triggered a corporate rebranding exercise that repositions
Fulcrum Pharma as the leading professional service
company in our selected field.
A new brand logo and corporate image defined the new
corporate identity, and a clear marketing strategy to
develop industry awareness was set in place to ensure
the name Fulcrum Pharma represented a professional
image in the market place.
Rebranding Fulcrum ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
7
Sales in Europe have grown by 20% to £9.8 million (2007: £8.2
million) reflecting the full year contribution of Unicus, which was
acquired in March 2007.  The initial issues experienced with Unicus
have been resolved and the strong sales performance has
demonstrated the value created by the acquisition of Unicus by the
Group.
US
The US business recorded a strong performance. Sales grew by 72% to
£2.4 million (2007: £1.4 million) reflecting the recovery of the business.
Mr John Larus joined the Company as General Manager for the US and
has restructured the US organisation in preparation for future growth.
Staff numbers have increased from 16 to 22 with expanded operational
and business development resource including extending the Group’s US
presence with the opening of an office in Ann Arbor, Michigan in
November 2007. Additionally, in order to better service the needs of
the clients, a dedicated regulatory affairs group, with electronic
submission capabilities, has been established in the US.
JAPAN
The Japanese organisation has continued to consolidate its position as
a leading specialist CRO in the oncology field.  Organic growth over the
last year has seen sales increase by 35% to £2.6 million (2007: £1.9
million) and headcount increase by 20%. The domestic client base is
predominately first tier Pharma companies and government funded
organisations. Long-term, stable contracts with these clients allow the
Japanese business to maintain an order book showing a good level of
predictability in a two year horizon.
FUTURE STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
The Group continues to see a trend for increased demand for
outsourcing as clients target more productive research and
development outputs.  The turbulent market conditions have increased
the focus of all clients on selective and efficient use of capital in
progressing drug development projects.  While the Group has
Senior Management
Phil Birch
Dr Birch
manages the
Group’s
European
activities
covering
development and regulatory
services. He has over 23 years
experience in the biotech,
pharma and consulting industry
and brings R&D, commercial 
and corporate development
experience to the Group. 
He joined Fulcrum in 2005 to
grow the European regulatory
business through acquisition.
Before joining Fulcrum he held
senior positions in R&D, strategic
marketing and business
development in Akos Consulting,
Ionix Pharmaceuticals,
Amersham, Astra and Glaxo. 
He is a first class honours
graduate from Oxford University
and obtained his D. Phil. in 1985.
Sarah
Arbe-
Barnes
Dr Sarah
Arbe-Barnes
heads the
newly
formed Product Development
Consultancy, a global group
within Fulcrum Pharma which
runs high value consultancy and
major drug development
programmes. Dr Arbe-Barnes
joined Fulcrum in 2000 and
previously ran the European
Developments group. 
Dr Arbe-Barnes is two times
recipient of Project of the Year
from Medicines for Malaria
Venture. Prior to joining Fulcrum
she held management positions
in Covance, Servier, Grunenthal
and Aventis Pasteur. 
Dr Arbe-Barnes holds a PhD in
Biochemistry from University 
of Bath.
John
Larus
Mr Larus
manages the
Group’s US
activities,
which
include business development
and operations. He has spent 20
years in the clinical trials services
industry, and co-founded
PharmaLinkFHI, where he was
responsible for the company’s
clinical operations and technology
implementation. He is a former
President and COO of Maaguzi,
an Electronic Patient Reported
Outcomes Company. Before
joining Fulcrum Pharma,
Mr Larus served as the VP for
North American Clinical
Operations with AAI Pharma, a
global CRO. He has an MA in
Quantitative Psychology from 
the University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill.
Teruyoshi
Okuda
Mr Okuda is
the President
of Fulcrum
Pharma KK,
the specialist
consulting and project manage-
ment arm of Fulcrum in Japan.
He has represented Fulcrum in
Japan since the initiation of the
company’s activities there in
2000.  Before joining Fulcrum,
Mr Okuda held various
management positions in Nippon
Roche and Rhone-Poulenc Rorer
Japan, playing a leading role in
the development of docetaxel,
capecitabine and herceptin in
Japan. Mr Okuda holds Bachelor
and Master degrees in
Pharmaceutical Technochemistry
and Pharmaceutical Sciences
from the Science University 
of Tokyo.
Kiyoshi
Fujimaru
Mr Fujimaru
is the
President of
Niphix KK,
Fulcrum’s
clinical research organization in
Japan. He joined Fulcrum in 2003
to set up direct clinical monitoring
and data management service for
the company’s Japanese clients.
Prior to joining Fulcrum
Mr Fujimaru was a senior
manager and Board Director of
EPS; a leading Japanese CRO.
Before that he held managerial
positions in Grelan Pharma-
ceutucals, Nihon Servier and
Nippon Roche. Mr Fujimaru has a
Bachelor degree in mathematics
from the Science University of
Tokyo and carried our post-
graduate research in biostatistics
for seven years in the Faculty of
Medicine of Tokyo University.
experienced a slowing in commitments from clients to progress such
projects, the diversification of the client base, to include the focus on
neglected diseases and novel models of drug development, coupled
with distinctive offerings from Fulcrum Pharma, convince the Group of
the continuing business opportunity, despite the more difficult market
conditions.
The Group has a clear strategy to deliver a growing, sustainable and
profitable business. The steps that management has taken provide a
strong platform to grow the Fulcrum Pharma business by building a
substantial Regulatory business and delivering bigger projects from
diversified clients.
CONCLUSION
The operating profit of £666,000 is in line with market expectations.
Current trading is satisfactory and the Board is further encouraged by
the strengthened order book since the year end.
Sir Charles George has chaired the Board of Fulcrum Pharma since the
Company’s listing in March 2000 and provided dedicated leadership
and service to the Company. The management and Board would like to
thank him for his endeavours over the years and wish him well with his
future opportunities. We welcome Mr Grahame Cook as Chairman
designate and Mr Ken Lacey and Mr Frank Condella to the Board.
Finally, I would like to thank the management and staff for their
contributions to the business in 2008 and I look forward to their
continuing commitment to Fulcrum Pharma in 2009.
DR FRANK ARMSTRONG
Chief Executive Officer
26 November 2008
