 10	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Chief Executive’s Review
Our	vision	is	to	create	and	operate	the	most	stylish 	
pubs	and	hotels	whilst	brewing	Britain’s	most 	
coveted	premium	brands	for	discerning	customers 	
both	at	home	and	abroad.	To	deliver	this	vision, 	 	
we	will	continue	to	focus	on	three	key	drivers 	 	
for	growth:
•	 Providing	a	distinctive	pub	and	hotel	experience
•	 Identifying	targeted	acquisitions	and 	
developments	
•	 Further	developing	our	premium	brand	portfolio.
One	area	that	is	of	particular	note	during	the	last 	
year	is	the	commitment	we	have	put	behind 	
specific	training	programmes	right	across	the 	
business.	From	wine	training	in	Fuller’s	Inns	to	sales 	
training	in	the	Beer	Company,	more	of	our	people 	
have	benefited	from	greater	investment	in	their 	
personal	development.	We	will	never	rest	on	our 	
laurels	and	in	order	to	build	on	the	great	results	of 	
this	year,	we	remain	committed	to	ensuring	our 	
people	are	equipped	with	the	best	skills	to	deliver 	
outstanding	beer	and	delicious	food	in	wonderful 	
pubs	with	great	service.	This	is	how	we	will	stay 	
ahead	of	our	competitors.
Our	strong	culture	is	at	the	heart	of	everything	we 	
do.	Whether	it’s	the	brewer,	a	drayman,	a	cellar 	
services	technician,	an	accountant	or	anyone	at 	
head	office,	or	a	manager,	tenant	or	barmaid	– 	
everyone	at	Fuller’s	is	focused	on	delivering 	
exemplary	service	to	our	customers.	Our	people 	
are	responsible	for	the	success	of	this	business	and 	
I’d	like	to	personally	thank	them	all	for	their 	
enthusiasm	and	dedication.
Approaching the end of my first full year as 
Chief Executive, I am pleased to report that 
Fuller’s has had another very strong year. As a 
company, we know our strength is in operating 
at the premium end of the market and we 
have a clear vision of where we are going and 
how we will get there. This provides a focus for 
the team while encouraging individuality, 
innovation and flexibility to flourish. 
Distinctive Pub and Hotel Experience
Fuller’s	Inns	has	had	an	excellent	year	with	like	for 	
like	sales	in	the	Managed	business	rising	by	8.3% 	
and	Tenanted	like	for	like	profits	rising	by	2%.	At	the 	
year	end,	our	estate	comprised	384	pubs	of	which 	
207	are	Tenanted	pubs	run	by	entrepreneurial 	
licensees	and	177	are	in	our	Managed	Pubs	and 	
Hotels	division.	Having	a	balanced	business 	
operating	both	Managed	and	Tenanted	houses 	
allows	us	the	flexibility	of	moving	sites	between	the 	
two	and	this	year	has	seen	seven	pubs	move 	
between	the	two	divisions.
Managed Pubs and Hotels
2014 2013
Invested LFL sales +8.3% +2.1%
Wet LFL sales +7.5% +0.9%
Food LFL sales +10.4% +3.9%
Accommodation 
LFL sales +10.4% +8.2%
Revenue £186.0m £170.1m
Operating profit £22.5m £19.4m
EBITDA £32.5m £29.0m
Our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels	division	has 	
enjoyed	another	stellar	year	with	strong	like	for 	 	
like	sales	growth	from	all	areas	of	the	business	– 	
notably	food	and	accommodation.	Total	like	for 	
like	sales	were	up	by	8.3%.
Total	revenues	increased	9%	from	£170.1	million	to 	
£186.0	million	and	our	operating	margin	expanded 	
from	11.4%	to	12.1%,	driven	by	improved	gross 	
margins	achieved	on	food	and	drink	and	a	lower 	
payroll	percentage.	This	increase	was	partly	offset 	
by	higher	investment,	resulting	in	a	16%	increase 	 	
in	profits
6
	to	£22.5	million	(2013:	£19.4	million).
Our	food	sales,	driven	by	a	continued	focus	on 	
food	that	is	fresh,	locally	sourced	where	possible 	
and	prepared	by	trained	chefs	on	site,	have	risen 	 	
by	10.4%	on	a	like	for	like	basis.	Accommodation 	
has	had	a	great	year	too	with	like	for	like	sales 	
across	our	622	boutique	bedrooms	also	rising 	 	
by	10.4%	–	a	figure	that	is	particularly	impressive 	
following	a	year	that	benefited	from	the	Olympic 	
Games	in	our	London	heartland.	We	have 	
improved	the	customer	journey	on	our	online 	
booking	system	and	this	is	reaping	rewards	with 	
initial	results	showing	a	60%	increase	in	bookings 	
coming	through	this	medium. 	
Food	continues	to	rise	in	importance	throughout 	
the	Fuller’s	estate	and	this	has	led	us	to	increase 	
our	focus	on	food	marketing	and	improve	the 	
training	programmes	and	career	structure	we	have 	
in	place.	As	well	as	the	chef-led	kitchen	teams	in 	
the	pubs,	we	have	a	team	of	nine	Executive	Chefs 	
Frontier
Frontier	is	our	new	wave	craft	lager,	launched 	 	
in	May	2013	and	now	available	in	over	230	locations 	
across	the	UK.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 11
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
under	the	stewardship	of	our	Head	of	Food.	This 	
year	has	seen	our	chef	development	programme 	
extended	to	include	more	junior	team	members, 	
with	the	aim	of	producing	home-grown	Executive 	
Chefs	for	the	future.
The	programme	comprises	a	three	level	Chef 	
Scholarship	and	65	of	the	850	kitchen	staff	in	our 	
managed	estate	have	already	participated, 	
including	a	number	of	food	assistants	who	are	just 	
starting	their	careers	in	the	food	arena.	We	have 	
just	completed	a	full	year	of	the	first	two	levels	of 	
this	initiative,	while	the	second	full	year	is	coming 	
to	a	close	for	those	sous	chefs	looking	to	take	up	a 	
role	as	head	chef.
The	food	team	also	continues	to	work	on	products 	
that	are	available	 Only	at	Fuller’s 	and	our	London 	
Porter	Smoked	Salmon	is	still	our	best-selling 	
starter	while	Vintage	Ale	Sticky	Toffee	Pudding	is 	
our	most	popular	dessert.	Recent	innovations 	
include	a	Cornish	Orchards	cider	pork	sausage.
As	well	as	new	courses	for	our	chefs,	the	rest	of	the 	
3,200	employees	in	our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels 	
team	have	benefited	too	with	almost	10,000	days 	
invested	on	pub	staff	training	during	the	year	– 	
which	works	out	at	around	400	training	hours	per 	
pub.	Much	of	this	development	has	been	targeted 	
at	the	customer	experience	and	we	now	have 	
around	50	Service	Coaches	in	the	estate. 	
The	impact	of	these	coaches	cannot	be 	
underestimated	and	they	have	a	pride	in	their 	
job	that	enthuses	the	wider	team	around	them.
During	the	year,	we	held	our	third	annual 	
Connection	Week	event,	which	this	year	provided 	
a	launch	pad	for	our	Five	Golden	Rules	of	Engaging 	
Service.	Connection	Week	brings	one	team 	
member	from	every	Managed	pub	together	for 	 	
a	day	of	interactive	learning	activities	that	they 	
then	go	back	and	share	with	their	colleagues. 	 	
This	year	the	focus	was	on	our	new	service 	
passports,	which	attendees	use	as	a	vehicle	to 	
disseminate	the	Five	Golden	Rules	to	the	rest 	
of	the	team	in	their	own	pub.
Finally,	we	are	also	refreshing	our	approach	to 	
recruitment	with	an	updated	online	portal	and	a 	
more	effective	means	of	ensuring	our	managers 	
only	interview	the	best	applicants.	We	intend	to 	
start	with 	the 	best 	recruits, 	develop 	team 	members 	
through	first	class	training	and	motivate	them 	
emotionally	and	financially.	The	result	is	a 	
structured	career	path	and	a	pipeline	of	great	future	
managers	to	support	the	Company’s	growth.
It’s	fine	for	a	company	to	claim	that	it	offers	a 	
distinctive	pub	and	hotel	experience,	but	only	our 	
customers	can	decide	if	we	are	succeeding.	Social 	
 % increase
2014 8.3%
2013 2.1%
2012 4.2%
Managed like for like sales
+8.3%
	
6	
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items.
Christmas in May
The	Mill	at	Elstead	had	to	close	on	the	day	before 	
Christmas	Eve	last	year	due	to	flooding.	Having	to 	
call	all	those	customers	who	had	pre-booked	their 	
Christmas	lunch	was	not	an	easy	task	for	managers 	
Jeff	and	Georgia	Watts.
To	make	up	for	it,	The	Mill	celebrated	Christmas	in 	
May	 – 	and	all	disappointed	customers	came	along 	
for	a	full	Christmas	dinner	complete	with	fake 	
snow	and	Santa	Claus. 12	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Chief Executive’s Review continued
media	allows	companies	to	gauge	their 	
performance	in	a	very	public	way	but	the	sheer 	
volume	of	feedback	can	be	difficult	to	monitor. 	 	
We	have	invested	in	a	new	system	that	consolidates 	
online	reviews	and	allows	our	pubs	to	access 	
that	feedback	in	a	simple	format.	The	system 	 	
also	enables	our	pubs	to	easily	see	how	they	are 	
faring	and	quickly	address	any	issues	that	arise. 	
Tenanted Inns
2014 2013
LFL profits +2% +1%
LFL barrels sold –2% –5%
Av. EBITDA per pub +1% +9%
Revenue £31.3m £30.8m
Operating profit £12.3m £12.2m
EBITDA £13.9m £13.8m
It’s	been	a	good	year	for	our	Tenanted	division 	 	
too	–	with	revenue	increasing	by	2%	to	£31.3	million 	
(2013:	 £30.8	 million),	 profits
7
	 rising	 by	 1%	 to	 £12.3	million 	
(2013:	£12.2	million)	and	average	EBITDA	per	pub 	
growing	by	1%.	As	we	continue	to	focus	on	the 	
premium	end	of	the	estate	we	have	sold	four	pubs, 	
while	three	pubs	have	been	transferred	to	the 	
Managed	Pubs	division	and	four	have	moved	in	the 	
opposite	direction.	In	addition,	we	have	invested 	
more	on	renovations	with	24	internal	schemes, 	 	
21	external	schemes	and	30	signage	schemes 	 	
across	our	tenanted	pubs.
We	have	continued	to	focus	on	providing	an	even 	
better	service	to	our	Tenants.	We	hold	regular 	
meetings	with	them,	including	an	annual	forum, 	
and	are	always	seeking	to	act	on	their	feedback	to 	
help	develop	their	businesses.	One	example	is	the 	
provision	of	a	high	quality	extranet	to	improve	the 	
flow	of	information,	which	we	delivered	this	year. 	
The	response	has	been	very	positive	and	we	were 	
delighted	when	our	commitment	to	our	Tenants 	
was	recognised	in	the	2014	him!	survey,	in	which 	
Fuller’s	came	out	as	the	top	Tenanted	pub 	
company	as	voted	for	by	Tenants.
Further	success	came	at	The	Publican	Awards 	
where	Fuller’s	took	the	coveted	title	of	Tenanted 	
Pub	Company	of	the	Year.	However,	we	are 	
determined	to	improve	further	and	the	new 	
financial	year	has	already	seen	the	launch	of 	 	
a	new	training	service	with	a	range	of	online 	
courses	being	offered	to	Tenants	for	just 	 	
£5	each.
Finally,	we	are	delighted	that	80%	of	our	Tenanted 	
estate	is	now	signed	up	to	the	Fuller’s	Service 	
Agreement.	This	is	an	initiative	that	gives	Tenants	a 	
guaranteed	level	of	regular	property	maintenance 	
and	compliance	with	the	ever	increasing	burden 	
of	legislation,	at	group	purchasing	prices. 	
Targeted Acquisitions And Developments
This	year	has	seen	some	great	additions	to	the 	
Fuller’s	estate	for	both	the	Managed	and	Tenanted 	
divisions.	In	July	2013,	we	added	The	White	Hart, 	
Southwark	 to	 our	 Tenanted	 estate	 while	 November	
saw	the	addition	of	two	new	managed	pubs,	The 	
Distiller’s	in	Hammersmith	and	the	opening	of 	
Cams	Mill,	a	large	development	on	the	Fareham 	
estuary.	In	March,	we	were	delighted	to	acquire 	
The	Albannach	–	an	iconic	site	on	London’s 	
Trafalgar	Square	–	and	in	April	we	started	the 	
new	financial	year	with	the	announcement	of	two 	
new	riverside	sites	in	Fulham	and	Greenwich	and 	
the	purchase	in	May	of	The	Windmill	in	Portishead, 	
near	Bristol.	All	four	of	these	latter	additions	will 	
operate	within	our	Managed	Pubs	division.
The	coming	financial	year	will	see	us	reaping	the 	
rewards	of	much	of	this	investment.	London’s	Pride 	
–	our	pub	at	The	Queen’s	Terminal,	Heathrow 	
(Terminal	2),	opened	on	4	June	2014	and	we	are 	
looking	forward	to	building	on	our	transport	hub 	
expertise	from	The	Parcel	Yard	at	King’s	Cross. 	
London’s	Pride	includes	a	number	of	new	features 	
such	as	a	section	for	Grab	and	Go	food	to	be	eaten 	
on	the	plane	and	we	will	be	retailing	travel	and 	
food	books	within	the	pub.	With	an	investment 	
cost	of	£1.7	million,	the	pub	has	200	covers	and 	 	
will	be	serving	contemporary	pub	food,	which	has 	
been	designed	with	the	modern	traveller	in	mind. 	
The	design	takes	airport	pubs	to	a	whole	new	level 	
and	much	is	made	within	the	pub	of	Fuller’s 	
heritage	and	the	site’s	close	proximity	(8.3	miles) 	 	
to	the	Brewery.
Following	on	from	the	very	successful	conversion 	
of	The	Red	Lion	on	Whitehall	to	our	Ale	&	Pie 	
format,	we	will	be	carrying	out	a	similar	project	on 	
The	Albannach	in	Trafalgar	Square,	which	will	be 	
unveiled	as	The	Admiralty	in	October.	With	more 	
than	a	nod	to	its	location	and	the	presence	of 	
Admiral	Nelson,	the	pub	will	benefit	from	the	high 	
footfall	in	this	area,	offering	a	winning	combination 	
of	great	beer	and	delicious	pies	to	tourists	and 	
locals	alike.
Finally,	three	new	riverside	pubs	will	be	opening 	 	
on	the	Thames	in	the	new	financial	year.	One	over 	
the	Ait	by	Kew	Bridge	will	open	in	the	autumn 	 	
of	2014,	closely	followed	by	the	site	at	Fulham 	
Reach,	overlooking	the	Harrods	Depository	and 	
providing	great	views	of	life	on	the	river.	The	Sail 	
Loft	at	Greenwich	–	part	of	the	new	Capital	Quay 	
Development	–	will	open	in	spring	2015.	We	also 	
purchased	The	Windmill	at	Portishead	in	May	2014 	
–	a	popular	dining	pub	with	panoramic	views 	
across	the	Severn	Estuary	to	Wales.
We	have	invested	a	total	of	£38.1	million	on	capital 	
expenditure	during	the	year	–	which	represents	a 	
rise	of	29%	against	last	year.	We	have	taken	the 	
opportunity	to	bring	forward	investment	on 	
refurbishments	while	sales	have	been	strong	and 	
this	is	particularly	true	in	the	second	half	of	the 	
year,	which	has	seen	16	major	schemes,	making 	 	
a	total	of	28	for	the	year.
Several	of	the	projects	undertaken	during	the 	
year	have	included	upgrading	the	accommodation 	
and,	in	some	cases,	adding	additional	bedrooms. 	 	
In	the	coming	year	we	are	looking	to	undertake	a 	
large	 project	 at	 The	 Mad	 Hatter,	 close	 to	 Blackfriars	
Bridge,	which	will	add	an	additional	15	bedrooms. 	
We	pride	ourselves	on	offering	a	better	experience 	
and	our	added	design	touches	ensure	we	stand	out 	
from	the	bland,	standardised	offerings	that 	
characterise	parts	of	the	British	hotel	scene.
All	of	our	refurbishments	aim	to	promote	the	key 	
drivers	in	our	estate	and	we	will	continue	to	focus 	
London Porter
It’s	 been	 a	 great	 year	 for	 London	 Porter	 –	 picking	 up	
awards	for	the	beer	in	keg	and	cask.	Keg	London 	
Porter	took	the	award	for	Overall	Keg	Champion 	
of	the	Competition	at	the	Society	of	Independent 	
Brewers	awards,	while	the	cask	version	was	the 	
overall	winner	of	the	London	&	South	East 	
CAMRA	Champion	Beer	of	Britain	award.
 % increase
2014 2%
2013 1%
2012 2%
Tenanted like for like profits
+2%
	  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 13
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
on	improved	kitchens	and	dining	areas,	exquisite 	
bedrooms	and	comfortable	areas	for	drinkers	to 	
relax	in.	We	will	also	continue	to	combine	this	with 	
innovative	and	interesting	features	such	as	the 	
mural	by	a	local	street	artist	in	the	cellar	bar	of 	
The	Boater	in	Bath.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
The Fuller’s 
Beer Company 2014 2013
Own beer and cider 
barrels sold –1% –1%
Foreign barrels sold +3% +3%
Total barrels sold +1% level
Revenue £115.8m £113.6m
Operating profit £8.5m £8.7m
EBITDA £11.5m £11.7m
It’s	been	a	year	of	change	for	the	Fuller’s	Beer	
Company,	with	foundation	blocks	being	laid	for	the	
future.	Total	beer	and	cider	volumes	were	1%	higher	
than	last	year	with	exports	showing	the	strongest	
growth.	Several	new	initiatives	have	come	into		
play	during	the	period	including	the	acquisition		
of	Cornish	Orchards,	the	launch	of	Frontier,	the	
purchase	of	the	UK	distribution	rights	to	Sierra	
Nevada	and	the	launch	of	Westside	Drinks	–	a	
separate	sales	force	with	a	remit	to	target	the	style	
end	of	the	licensed	retail	market.	In	addition,	we	
celebrated	a	cut	in	beer	duty	thanks	to	the	
Chancellor’s	Budget	in	March	2014.
Revenue	for	the	Beer	Company	increased	2%	to 	
£115.8	million	(2013:	£113.6	million)	while	operating 	
profit	before	exceptional	items	reduced	2%	to 	
£8.5	million	(2013:	£8.7	million)	following	additional 	
marketing	spend	and	significant	improvements 	 	
to	the	Brewery.
Premium Brand Portfolio
Our	brands	continued	to	pick	up	awards	during 	
the	year	with	London	Porter	winning	the	overall 	
prize	for	Best	Keg	Beer	at	the	SIBA	(Society	of 	
Independent	Brewers)	awards	and	the	cask	version 	
taking	the	overall	title	for	the	London	&	South	East 	
CAMRA	Champion	Beer	of	Britain	competition. 	
In	the	same	awards,	1845	took	the	gold	medal	in 	
the	Real	Ale	in	a	Bottle	category. 	
London	Pride	continues	to	be	our	best-selling		
brand	and	the	second	phase	of	the	Made	of	
London	campaign	ran	during	the	last	financial		
year.	Over	500	posters	appeared	on	sites	across		
the	Capital,	which	were	viewed	by	over	eight	
million	adults.	The	supporting	digital	campaign	
had	over	seven	million	impressions	and	reached		
1.7	million	unique	users.	
By	using	posters	and	press,	the	ads	have	a 	 	
longer	dwell	time	which	allows	us	to	get	over	a 	
relatively	complex	message	about	London	Pride’s 	
credentials	and	phase	three	has	just	started,	which 	
will	build	on	this	further.	The	new	phase	is	more 	
interactive,	with	social	media	acting	as	a	call	to 	
action	for	drinkers	to	share	their	stories	of	London 	
Pride.	The	London	Pride	Facebook	page	alone 	 	
now	has	over	38,000	fans.
On	4	June	2013,	we	purchased	Cornish	Orchards 	
for	£3.8	million.	Cornish	Orchards	produces	a 	
range	of	premium	award-winning	ciders	using 	
freshly	pressed	apples	as	well	as	a	range	of 	
interesting	and	delicious	soft	drinks.	We	have 	
already	invested	in	six	new	tanks	–	which	have 	
increased	capacity	by	60%	to	cope	with	the 	
growing	demand	for	its	products.	These	craft 	
ciders	and	soft	drinks	are	produced	by	a	team 	
that	is	passionate	about	quality.	They	perfectly 	
Exports
You	can	buy	Fuller’s	beers	in	around	70	countries 	
across	the	globe.	Our	biggest	market	is	now 	
Sweden,	where	they	love	the	wide	range	of	styles 	
and	flavours	Fuller’s	beers	provide. 	
Export map
Barrelage	 100%
Asia	pacific	 17.1%
Africa	 0. 3%
North	America	 24.2%
South	America		 5.9%
Europe	 49.5%	
Middle	East	 3.0%
7	
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items. 14	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Chief Executive’s Review continued
complement	our	existing	portfolio	while	the 	
company	itself	is	a	great	cultural	fit	with	Fuller’s.
Frontier,	our	new	craft	lager	launched	in	May	2013, 	
continues	to	grow	and	the	brand	is	proving	popular 	
at	various	London	events	such	as	Street	Feast	and 	
Ribstock.	In	addition,	Frontier	is	now	available	in 	
over	230	locations	–	the	majority	of	which	are	not 	
our	own	pubs	–	and	in	bottle	in	over	600	Tesco 	
stores.	The	agreement	with	Sierra	Nevada,	which 	
sees	Fuller’s	take	responsibility	for	the	distribution 	
of	this	great	American	craft	beer	across	the	UK, 	
and	the	addition	of	Cornish	Orchards	have 	
opened	more	doors	for	Westside	Drinks	and	gives 	
the	team	a	fantastic	range	of	brands	to	sell	to	high 	
end	bars,	restaurants	and	festivals. 	
Our	export	business	continues	to	grow	with 	
Sweden	now	our	largest	export	market,	followed 	
by	the	USA,	Canada,	Russia	and	Finland.	In	total, 	
Fuller’s	is	now	present	in	68	countries	and	one	in 	
five	pints	brewed	heads	overseas.	London	Pride 	 	
still	accounts	for	the	lion’s	share,	with	44%	of	total 	
export	volume	–	but	our	wide	portfolio	has	proved 	
to	be	a	real	asset	in	foreign	markets	and	our	fastest 	
growing	export	brands	last	year	were	Organic 	
Honey	Dew	and	India	Pale	Ale.
As	an	integral	part	of	our	premium	brand	portfolio, 	
we	continue	to	source,	import	and	sell	a	wide 	
range	of	interesting	wines.	By	focusing	on	brands 	
that	are	not	so	readily	available	in	the	off	trade, 	
we	can	offer	a	point	of	difference	to	our	pubs 	
and	free	trade	customers.
Finally,	we	continue	to	expand	both	at	the 	 	
Griffin	Brewery	in	Chiswick	and	at	Cornish 	
Orchards	in	Duloe.	In	Cornwall,	we	are	further 	
increasing	production	capacity	in	preparation	for 	
this	autumn’s	apple	harvest	while	this	spring	we 	
added	10	new	tanks	to	accommodate	increased 	
keg	volumes	at	the	Brewery	in	Chiswick	due	to 	
sales	of	Frontier	and	the	growth	in	exports.
Final Salary Pension Scheme
We	closed	our	final	salary	pension	scheme	to	new 	
members	in	August	2005.	The	Company	has 	
recently	finished	a	period	of	consultation	with	the 	
Trustees	and	Members	of	that	scheme,	with	the 	
expectation	that	the	scheme	will	close	to	future 	
accrual	with	effect	from	1	January	2015.	As	there 	
are		still	matters	to	be	concluded	on	the	scheme 	
closure	between	the	Company	and	the	Trustees, 	
we	cannot	yet	quantify	the	financial	impact	of 	
this	action.
Current Trading And Prospects
We’ve	had	a	very	good	start	to	the	new	financial 	
year,	with	like	for	like	sales	in	our	Managed	Pubs 	
and	Hotels	rising	by	8.0%	in	the	nine	weeks	to 	
31	May	2014.	Like	for	like	profits	in	the	Tenanted 	
estate	have	risen	by	4%	and	total	volumes	in	the 	
Beer	Company	are	up	by	10%. 	
Two	new	pubs	have	opened	during	the	first	nine 	
weeks	of	the	year	–	The	Windmill,	a	freehold	site 	
in	Portishead,	and	London’s	Pride	at	Heathrow 	
Terminal	2.	In	addition,	we	have	three	freehold 	
riverside	sites	that	will	open	during	the	next	year 	
at	Kew,	Fulham	and	Greenwich. 	
The	Fuller’s	Beer	Company	strategy,	launched	last 	
year,	is	already	starting	to	deliver	with	both	Frontier 	
and	Cornish	Orchards	achieving	exciting	growth 	
and	extra	capacity	coming	on	stream	in	Chiswick 	
and	Cornwall	during	the	coming	months.
We	are	looking	forward	with	anticipation	and 	
excitement	to	the	forthcoming	year.	Investment 	
is	taking	place	in	all	areas	of	the	Company	and 	
we	continue	to	be	pleased	with	the	impact	that 	
it	is	having	on	the	business.	The	combination 	 	
of	a	high	quality	estate,	premium	brands	and 	 	
a	healthy	balance	sheet	puts	us	in	an	excellent 	
position	going	forward.
Simon Emeny
Chief	Executive
5	June	2014
“ The combination of a high quality estate, premium 
brands and a healthy balance sheet puts us in an 
excellent position going forward.”
 (’000) Brls
2014 334.1
2013 332.1
2012 331.7
Beer Company total beer and cider barrels
334,100 Brls
+1%
 £m
2014 38.1
2013 31.1
2012 76.3
Capital expenditure
£38.1m
+23%   /londonpride     @
london_pride   drinka w are.co .uk
B e ST S e lle r The last two centuries have given us some great books. Many based in London.  
About Londoners. Like the pipe smoking sleuth from Baker Street, the nanny  
that preferred her umbrella to the Routemaster, and the boy that never grew up.  
OK, so he wasn’t from London, but he did visit - probably flew over our brewery - 
and while those authors were busy writing their stories, we were writing ours.  
Brewing books, dating back to 1845. They’re not famous, but like any good classic  
they’re still being read today, by our brewers, who in turn continue our story with 
new recipes and tales of cask and keg. Not exactly populist, but to enjoy our story
you don’t have to read it, just take a sip.
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 15 16 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Only at Fuller’s
Food	is	more	important	than	it	has	ever	been	and 	
we	are	delighted	to	see	our	like	for	like	food	sales 	
rise	by	10.4%	during	the	year.
Our	team	of	nine	Executive	Chefs	focus	on	using 	
fresh,	seasonal	produce	and	creating	dishes	that 	
are	available	 Only	at	Fuller’s 	such	as	our	London 	
Porter	Smoked	Salmon,	Golden	Pride	Sourdough 	
Bread	and	Vintage	Ale	Sticky	Toffee	Pudding.	We 	
have	started	to	use	Cornish	Orchards	cider	too 	
–	with	the	arrival	of	a	Cornish	Orchards	cider 	 	
pork	 sausage.
We	have	just	expanded	our	chef	development 	
scheme	too	–	so	we	are	offering	great	training	to 	
our	kitchen	teams	at	all	levels.	We	like	to	provide 	
genuine	career	progression	and	hopefully	today’s 	
kitchen	porter	is	tomorrow’s	head	chef.
Food	is	key	to	our	business	and	our	growth	and 	 	
it	just	gets	better	and	better. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 17
13.00	The	Parcel	Yard
Fresh food – skilled chefs
Head	chef	Rachid	Messaoudi	and	his	team	at	The	Parcel 	
Yard	satisfy	up	to	400	diners	every	day.	No	mean	feat	– 	
especially	as	many	of	them	have	trains	to	catch,	so	the	food 	
has	to	be	cooked	to	perfection	in	a	timely	fashion.
