  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 3
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
“We continue to deliver industry leading results 
with like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and 
Hotels rising by 8.3%, led by a superb performance 
in both food sales and accommodation.”
I am delighted to present a very strong set  
of results for the Group and I would like to 
congratulate all those involved in delivering 
these numbers. Our Managed Pubs and 
Hotels division has had an excellent year  
and across the business we are reaping the 
rewards of some great acquisitions and a 
well-invested estate underpinned by a 
premium brand portfolio, delicious fresh  
food and exceptional people.
Group	revenues	rose	by	6%	to	£288.0	million	(2013: 	
£271.5	million),	which	resulted	in	adjusted	profit 	
before	tax	(excluding	exceptional	items)	growing 	
by	10%	to	£34.1	million	(2013:	£31.1	million
4
).	Our 	
adjusted	earnings	per	share,	our	favoured	measure 	
for	shareholders,	rose	11%	to	46.94p	(2013:	42.18p
4
).
We	continue	to	deliver	industry	leading	results	with 	
like	for	like	sales	in	our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels 	
rising	by	8.3%,	led	by	a	superb	performance	in	both 	
food	sales	and	accommodation	–	two	areas	that 	
have	seen	increased	focus	over	recent	years. 	
Operating	profits	for	this	division	rose	by	16%	with 	
strong	margins.
In	our	Tenanted	Division,	revenue	has	also	risen. 	
We	have	invested	for	the	future	in	our	Tenanted 	
estate	and	this	increase	in	repairs	has	led	to	a	1% 	
rise	in	profits
5
	from	a	2%	rise	in	revenue.	On	a	like 	
for	like	basis,	we	were	pleased	to	see	profits	rise 	 	
by	2%.
The	Fuller’s	Beer	Company	has	had	a	very 	
interesting	year	with	the	launch	of	Frontier,	a	craft 	
lager,	in	May	2013	and	the	purchase	of	Cornish 	
Orchards,	a	traditional	cider	maker,	in	June	last 	
year.	The	year	has	been	rounded	off	with	the 	
acquisition	of	the	UK	distribution	rights	to	US	craft 	
beer	Sierra	Nevada.	These	elements	widen	our 	
range,	providing	a	solid	basis	for	future	growth, 	 	
and	give	the	Beer	Company	an	outstanding	range 	 	
of	premium	brands	to	offer	to	our	pubs	and	free 	
trade	 customers.
Dividend
The	Board	recommends	that	a	final	dividend	of 	
9.30p	per	40p	‘A’	and	‘C’	ordinary	share	and	0.93p 	
per	4p	‘B’	ordinary	share	be	paid	on	28	July	2014	to 	
shareholders	on	the	share	register	as	at	27	June 	
2014.	This	is	an	increase	of	11%	on	last	year’s	final 	
dividend.	The	total	dividend	per	share	of	15.10p	per 	
40p	‘A’	and	‘C’	ordinary	share	and	1.51p	per	4p	‘B’ 	
ordinary	share	represents	a	10%	increase	on	last 	
year	and	will	be	covered	more	than	three	times	by 	
adjusted	earnings	per	share.
Michael Turner
Chairman
5	June	2014
4		
2013	adjusted	profit	and	adjusted	earnings	per	share	are	restated	to	exclude	pension	scheme	finance	costs/income	from	adjusted	profit.	See	note	1	to	the	financial	statements	for	details.
5		
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items.
Made of London
Phase	two	of	the	Made of London	campaign 	
included	500	poster	sites	around	the	Capital, 	
viewed	by	over	eight	million	Londoners. 4 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Transport Hubs
Fuller’s	opened	the	doors	on	its	first	transport 	
hub	site,	The	Mad	Bishop	and	Bear	at	Paddington 	
Station,	in	1999.	The	Tap	on	the	Line	is	located 	
right	on	the	Platform	at	Kew	Gardens	station, 	 	
we	have	The	Doric	Arch	at	Euston,	The	Wellington 	
at	Waterloo	and	The	Grand	Central	in	Brighton. 	
Our	most	successful	train	station	venture	is	The 	
Parcel	Yard	at	King’s	Cross,	which	is	next	to 	
platform	9	–	and	the	Harry	Potter	store	complete 	
with	disappearing	luggage	trolley.	It	might	have	a 	
famous	neighbour,	but	the	real	attraction	is	The 	
Parcel	Yard’s	two	floors	dedicated	to	serving 	
hungry	and	thirsty	travellers	throughout	the	day.
The	Parcel	Yard	sells	more	cask	ale	than	any 	 	
other	pub	in	our	estate	and	the	demand	for	space, 	
due	to	its	popularity,	has	resulted	in	the	opening 	
this	year	of	an	additional	four	function	rooms,	all 	
stylishly	designed	for	those	who	want	to	eat,	drink 	
or	socialise	without	comprising	on	quality.	The 	
Parcel	Yard	really	is	a	great	Fuller’s	pub	and	we	like 	
to	think	it	has	changed	the	train	station	pub	forever.
This	success	has	also	encouraged	us	to	look	further 	
afield	and	we	have	just	opened	our	first	airport	site 	
with	London’s	Pride	at	The	Queen’s	Terminal	– 	
Heathrow	Terminal	2.	There’s	more	on	that 	 	
to	follow… Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 5
08.30	Tap	on	the	Line
Breakfast on the Move
It’s	time	for	Eggs	Benedict	or	a	quick	coffee	before	grabbing 	
the	train	or	plane	–	and	at	The	Tap	on	the	Line,	you	can 	
actually	watch	the	trains	at	Kew	Gardens	station	come 	 	
and	go	with	a	ringside	seat.
