 6	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Strategic Report
At a Glance
Managed Pubs and Hotels
Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels	are	operated	by 	
Fuller’s	employees	and	include	180	pubs	and 	
hotels.	Our	acquisitions	are	carefully	targeted 	
towards	prime	locations	in	market	towns	with 	
our	target	demographics,	high	footfall 	
locations	in	transport	hubs	and	iconic	pubs 	 	
in	our	home	city	of	London.
Our	estate	is	primarily	in	the	South	and	South 	
East	of	the	UK	and	includes	111	pubs	within	the 	
M25.	We	focus	on	freshly	prepared	seasonal 	
food	and	an	aspirational	premium	drinks 	
range,	delivered	with	exceptional	service 	 	
and	in	a	stylish	and	comfortable	environment. 	 	
We	also	have	622	boutique	bedrooms	across 	
our	12	hotels	and	14	pubs	with	rooms.
Tenanted Inns
The	Tenanted	Inns	division	has	206	pubs, 	
where	the	individual	pubs	are	run	by	self- 	
employed	entrepreneurs,	who	work	in 	
partnership	with	us,	selling	our	beer	and 	
operating	under	the	Fuller’s	brand.
We	offer	our	tenants	a	high	level	of	support, 	
including	a	variety	of	tools	and	services	to	help 	
them	grow	their	businesses.	This	includes 	 	
a	bespoke	website,	a	property	compliance 	
package,	free	WiFi	and	subsidised	training 	 	
for	their	staff.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
As	London’s	longest	standing	brewer,	we 	
continually	bring	new	products	to	market 	
whilst	proudly	brewing	the	UK’s	No.1	premium 	
ale,	London	Pride.	We	proactively	develop 	 	
our	portfolio	of	beers,	providing	variety	and 	
interest	for	consumers,	producing	a	different 	
seasonal	ale	every	month.	This	year	we 	
acquired	Cornish	Orchards,	a	craft	cider 	
producer	in	Cornwall,	to	expand	our	range 	
of	premium	authentic	drinks.
We	directly	deliver	our	own	beer	and	cider,	as 	
well	as	other	drinks	products	to	our	pubs	and 	
our	free	trade	customers	in	the	South	East. 	
Our	customers	value	the	high	quality	service 	
we	 provide.	
180
Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels 	
206
Tenanted	Inns 	
No. 1
Premium	ale	in	the	UK 	
 
 
 
Group operating profit by division
1
 £m
Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels 22.5
Fuller’s Tenanted Inns 12.3
Fuller’s Beer Company 8.5
 
 
 
Total beer barrels by channel
Fuller's Tenanted Inns 12.4%
Fuller's Managed Pubs and Hotels 22.6%
Free On Trade
Off Trade
Exports
39.2%
11.7%
14.1%
 
 
Managed and Tenanted houses
Managed pubs within M25 111
Tenanted pubs within M25 58
Tenanted pubs outside M25 148
Managed pubs outside M25 69 1	
Excludes	central	costs.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 7
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
“ We will create and operate the most stylish pubs  
and hotels whilst brewing Britain’s most coveted 
premium brands for discerning customers both  
at home and abroad.”
The Fuller’s Vision
Distinctive Pub  
and Hotel experience
Targeted acquisitions  
and developments
Premium  
brand portfolio
Investing in:
—		 Our	people
—		 Our	retail	offer
—		 Behind	the	scenes
—		 Customer	experience
—		 Customer	feedback
Target acquisitions and  
developments in:
—	High	footfall	transport	hubs
—	Iconic	London	pubs
—	Affluent	market	towns
Focusing on:
—	Well	invested	equipment	and	processes
—	Skilled	brewers
—	Constant	innovation
—	Putting	flavour	first
Progress in FY 2014 Progress in FY 2014 Progress in FY 2014
—	 	 Only	at	Fuller’s 	continues	to	provide	unique 	
beer	and	food	collaborations.
—		 Like	for	like	(LFL)	food	sales	up	10.4%	driven	by 	
our	freshly)	prepared	seasonal	offer.
—		 Accommodation	LFL	sales	up	10.4%	building 	
on	previous	strong	Olympic	year.
—		 Increased	investment	in	our	people,	which 	 	
is	fundamental	to	great	service	for	our 	
customers.
—		 Three	new	pubs	purchased	for	a	total	of 	 	
£7.6	 million.	
—		 Development	of	two	new	sites:	Cams	Mill 	 	
on	Fareham	estuary	opened	November	2013 	
and	London’s	Pride,	Heathrow	Terminal	2, 	
developed	during	the	year	and	opened 	 	
4	June	2014.
—		 £10.6	million	spent	on	significant 	
redevelopment	of	28	houses.
—		 Cornish	Orchards	acquired	in	June	2013	and 	
successfully	 integrated.
—		 Launch	of	new	wave	craft	lager,	Frontier, 	 	
in	June	2013.
—		 Made	of	London	advertising	campaign 	
emphasising	our	London	heritage.
—		 Sierra	Nevada	added	to	Fuller’s	agency 	
portfolio	of	world	class	beers.
Priorities for FY 2015 Priorities for FY 2015 Priorities for FY 2015
—		 Continue	to	invest	through	the	business 	 	
cycle	helping	to	drive	LFL	sales	growth 	 	
and	gross	margins.
—		 Invest	in	the	upgrade	of	remaining	bedrooms 	
to	our	boutique	standard.
—		 Launch	of	new	approach	to	recruitment 	
including	an	updated	Fuller’s	portal.
—		 Development	of	One	over	the	Ait,	Kew	Bridge, 	
The	Tideway,	Fulham	Reach	and	The	Sail 	 	
Loft,	Greenwich.
—		 Development	of	15	new	rooms	at	The	Mad 	
Hatter,	SE1.
—		 Further	refurbishments	and	repositionings 	 	
of	existing	properties.
—		 10	new	conditioning	tanks	being	added	in 	
spring	2014	to	increase	capacity	by	25,000 	
barrels	per	year.
—		 Further	investment	in	Cornish	Orchards 	 	
to	increase	production	capacity	and 	 	
widen	distribution.
—		 Focus	on	opening	new	markets	via	Westside 	
Drinks,	targeting	stylish	bars	and	restaurants.
Market influence Market influence Market influence
—		 Current	consumer	trends	include	a	focus 	
on	provenance	of	food,	healthier	options 	
and	good	value.
—		 London	and	the	South	East	continue	to 	
outperform	the	rest	of	the	UK	market.
—		 Consumers	increasingly	want	more	interesting 	
choices	and	are	prepared	to	pay	a	premium	for 	
quality	craft	products.
The	Strategic	Report,	encompassing	pages	6	to	29,	was	approved	by	the	Board	and	signed	on	its	behalf	on	5	June	2014: 	
Simon Emeny James Douglas
Chief	Executive	 Finance	Director 8 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
10.30	The	White	Buck
It’s Checking Out Time
We	completed	a	significant	investment	this	year	at	the	White 	
Buck	at	Burley	–	a	fantastic	pub	and	hotel	in	the	New	Forest	– 	
including	the	addition	of	eight	further	boutique	bedrooms. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 9
Bedroom Business
There	are	now	622	bedrooms	across	Fuller’s 	
Managed	pubs	and	Hotels	estate	and	we	are 	
delighted	that	like	for	like	sales	have	risen	by	10.4% 	
this	year.	This	figure	is	especially	pleasing	as	it 	
follows	a	prior	year	that	included	the	Olympics.
We	 pride	 ourselves	 on	 creating	 boutique	 bedrooms	
that	offer	something	extra	special	and	quirky. 	 	
We	avoid	any	identikit	furniture	and	we	always 	 	
aim	to	ensure	the	great	service	our	customers 	
expect	in	a	Fuller’s	pub	runs	right	through	the 	
customer	experience.
We	also	strive	to	add	interesting	design	touches	–	
where	possible	with	a	relevance	to	the	local	area 	
too.	For	instance,	at	The	Pilot	in	Greenwich,	our 	
rooms	all	have	a	clock	on	the	door	as	a	nod	to 	 	
the	Greenwich	Meridian	and	the	time	showing 	
denotes	the	room	number.
If	you	are	looking	for	an	overnight	stay	that	is 	
comfortable,	clean,	stylish	and	that	comes	with	a 	
great	pint,	an	excellent	breakfast	and	a	fantastic 	
choice	of	wines	–	then	look	no	further.	We	are 	 	
here	and	ready	to	serve.
