 COMMERCIAL PRINTING
Following the acquisition of Quadracolor our commercial printing operations now account for 67% of
group turnover. This sector of our industry, which incorporates marketing literature, corporate brochures
and annual reports, has suffered from continuing weakness in demand and over capacity, resulting in
severe price pressure.
In May 2002, W E Baxter was reorganised and relocated from Lewes in East Sussex to Mitcham, 
near to the group’s operations in Croydon, into previously empty premises already leased by the group.
This move has allowed W E Baxter to source its pre-press and finishing requirements from other group
companies, rather than performing these services in-house, thereby improving group operational
efficiency. Whilst we have retained the paper-over-board ring binder production, Baxter’s PVC ring 
binder operation was closed and the company’s operating costs significantly reduced. The Lewes
freehold premises vacated by W E Baxter are being offered for sale.
On 31 January 2002, the group acquired Quadracolor, a commercial printing operation similar to the
group’s existing businesses but with little client overlap, and Quadracolor Graphics, its pre-press
operation. These businesses were well equipped, using solely Heidelberg printing presses and benefiting
from electronic pre-press and direct-to-plate technology. The companies operate from freehold premises
of 27,000 sq ft situated in Sydenham, South London. The initial consideration was £2.0m and, in
addition, contingent consideration of up to £1.0m may be payable, subject to performance.  
Fulmar Colour took delivery in June 2002 of the first of two 12 colour Heidelberg presses, capable of
printing high quality work in up to 6 colours both sides of a sheet in one pass. The company has derived
significant productivity advantages since completion of the installation late in August. The second press
was installed successfully after the year end. Both presses, installed at a total cost of £4.0m, are now
operating on a 24 hour shift system. Fulmar has introduced a solvent recycling system in conjunction
with these presses to significantly reduce consumption. This is part of the company’s environmental
programme leading to ISO 14001 accreditation.  
BOOK PRINTING
The group’s book cover, jacket and paperback book printing operations, which accounted for 28% 
of group turnover, continued to trade well, increasing turnover by 29%.
The group’s book cover and jacket printer, White Quill, increased turnover by 10% as it continued to
benefit from increasing demand from Bookmarque, the group’s mass market paperback book printing
business. In addition, at the beginning of 2002, a five year supply agreement was signed with the
company’s largest customer. In the first half of the year, permanent 24 hour working was introduced in
pre-press, printing and finishing, thereby significantly reducing the time required to produce covers and
jackets to meet customers’ just-in-time requirements.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
4 FULMAR plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 12
COLOUR
PRINTING
LITHO
QUALITY
HIGH 
with the productivity benefits of printing 6 colours 
to both sides of the sheet at the same time 6 FULMAR plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
BOOK PRINTING CONTINUED
Bookmarque, whose state-of-the-art operations were commissioned in July 2000, achieved an increase
in turnover of 97% and in December 2002 signed a supply contract with its largest customer for a four
year period providing a 50% increase in volume over their prior agreement. No significant further capital
investment is anticipated at present as the increasing volumes are being achieved using existing
equipment with 24 hour operation.
The growth in orders for paperback covers, deriving from the rapid expansion of Bookmarque, has
required some expenditure on additional equipment within Orion, the group’s specialist finishing
operation. A fourth Geitz foil blocking machine and a second Topspot UV varnishing machine were
installed during the year at a cost of £0.7m. This investment has been supplemented with additional
24 hour working.
The group has also installed equipment for the production of Cyrel UV varnishing plates and foiling 
and embossing dies. For an investment of £0.1m, and in furtherance of the group’s strategy of pursuing
added value, we have ensured that supplies necessary for the rapid production of jackets and covers
are secured.
SPECIALIST OPERATIONS
Specialist operations principally comprise Royle Financial Print. This category’s share of group turnover
reduced to 5%. 
The well publicised lack of activity in City financial markets resulted in a 17% reduction in turnover 
at Royle Financial Print. We do not anticipate any upturn in this market in the near future.
After the year end, the vacant premises in Tamworth, owned by the group and previously occupied 
by The Box Room, were sold for £2.1m, achieving a small profit on sale.
OUTLOOK
Our book-related businesses continue to perform well and we anticipate further growth this year. 
The market for commercial print remains subdued and the pre-existing overcapacity has resulted in
severe price weakness. We do not expect that either of these situations will alter during the year but 
the group’s well organised and efficient businesses remain well placed to compete in these difficult
trading conditions.
MIKE TAYLOR
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
27 MARCH 2003
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW MIKE TAYLOR
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
27 MARCH 2003
with the benefits of manufacturing on state-of-the-art 
equipment together with high quality book jacket production  
P APERBACK BOOK
PRINTING
WEB
SPEED
HIGH 
