 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 7
Fulmar plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
COMMERCIAL AND FINANCIAL PRINTING
Our commercial and financial printing operations accounted for 68% of group turnover (2003 – 69%) producing
advertising literature, corporate brochures, annual reports and overnight City financial print.
These businesses have achieved a 4% increase in sales to £28.94m (2003 – £27.74m) against a background of continuing
weakness of demand and severe price pressures.
Due to relatively high levels of investment in prior years, there was no significant capital expenditure in our commercial 
and financial printing businesses during the period under review and we do not anticipate any change during 2005.
As a result of continuing losses, W E Baxter was relocated and reorganised in May 2004 and now shares the Mitcham
premises of Pegasus Colourprint. The resultant reduced fixed costs and shared facilities benefit both companies.
Royle Corporate Print, our specialist annual report printer, achieved a 13% increase in turnover, having been successful 
in attracting additional annual reports, together with an increase in commercial work undertaken during our traditionally
quieter periods, which resulted in the more efficient use of our capacity.
Fulmar Colour, our specialist high quality commercial printer, achieved a 9% increase in turnover, having taken steps to
strengthen its sales team. This growth was further enabled by the increased utilisation of existing capacity, particularly 
of the two Heidelberg 12 colour perfecting presses installed in 2002 and 2003.
BOOK PRINTING
Demand for the group’s book cover, jacket and mass market paperback book printing services, which accounted for 
32% of group turnover (2003 – 31%), remained high throughout this period. This enabled a return to double-digit 
growth of 13%.
We announced in July 2004 the purchase of our third Timson book press, which was successfully installed in 
January 2005. In preparation for this increase in print capacity, the manning of our existing binding line was changed, 
from two shift to three shift working, in the latter part of 2004.
A further investment of £0.24m was made with the installation, during the Christmas break, of a thermal, large format,
fully automatic plate setter, capable of outputting up to 24 plates per hour, being more than three times faster than 
the previous device and therefore able to keep pace with our increased demand for plates.
These improvements in our production facilities at Bookmarque, the group’s mass market paperback book operation, 
have lifted our capacity to approximately 50 million books, against the 30 million books actually produced in 2004.
Following the completion during 2004 of a 767 sq m (8,300 sq ft) extension to our jacket and cover production facility, 
we have increased the number of our printing presses deployed in The White Quill Press to five by transfer of a 6 colour
Speedmaster from elsewhere in the group following some reorganisation. Our group continues to achieve AWARDS SUCCESS with ROYLE CORPORATE PRINT being voted
‘Environmental Company of the Year’ and highly commended in the ‘Report and Accounts’ category in the
Printing World magazine annual awards. FULMAR COLOUR similarly achieved awards success, being voted
overall winner in the McNaughton Review. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
9
Fulmar plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
BOOK PRINTING CONTINUED
Further investment was made during the year with the installation of two fully automatic thermal platesetters, replacing 
two older units coming to the end of their useful life. Additionally, an automatic cutting station was installed in 
July 2004 to enable us to keep pace with the rapidly increasing numbers of paperback book covers being produced.
FREEHOLD PROPERTY
The group sold, in 2003, a vacant freehold property in Lewes, previously occupied by W E Baxter, for an initial
consideration of £1.6m in cash. An additional subsequent minimum payment of £0.8m becomes due on receiving 
suitable planning consent. Conditional consent was granted in January 2005, subject to the completion of a section 
106 agreement.
OUTLOOK
Both our commercial printing businesses and our book production facilities are well organised and well invested, with
under-utilised capacity. Our group is therefore well prepared to gain advantage, should the modestly improved trading
conditions experienced during 2004, by the commercial printing businesses, continue through 2005.
Mike Taylor, Chief Executive
23 March 2005
