 24 Corporate Governance
the appointment of directors of the company. The committee
consists solely of non-executive directors, and its terms of
reference are available from the Company Secretary on request.
The report on remuneration is set out on pages 29 to 32.
Annual performance appraisals of the executive directors are
conducted by the remuneration and nominations committee, 
and feedback given to the individuals throughout the year. The
executive directors similarly appraise the performance of the non-
executive directors. There is ongoing evaluation of the board and
its committees, by the directors, throughout the year.
Relations with Shareholders
The company encourages meaningful dialogue with both its
institutional and private investors. The executive directors
undertake presentations following the announcement of the
interim and final results, and the directors are available 
for comment throughout the year and at the annual general
meeting.
Accountability and Audit 
The responsibilities of the directors and auditors are set out on
pages 27 and 33.
The board has established the necessary procedures to
implement the Combined Code provisions, except as mentioned
below. These have been in place throughout 2005 and up to the
date of approval of the financial statements.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this process
is regularly reviewed.
The board of directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s
systems of internal control and reviewed them for their
effectiveness during the year by examining reports from
individual directors and the external auditors. Any system of 
internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Fulmar plc  
°
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25
The principal components of the systems for planning, executing,
controlling and monitoring the Group’s activities in order to
achieve its objectives and minimise major risks are:
• an organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility
and delegation of authority;
• a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system
which enables the board to evaluate the performance of 
the Group on a monthly basis and take action where necessary
on a timely basis;
• continual review and development of the Group’s internal
control, risk management and management information
systems;
• clearly defined guidelines for capital investment.
Steps continue to be taken to further embed internal control
and risk management procedures into the operations of the
business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to
management’s and the board’s attention.
The board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function
but does not consider it necessary at the current time.
All members of the audit committee met twice during 2005.
They assist the board in discharging its duty to ensure that the
financial statements presented by the company to its shareholders
conform with all legal requirements and that the Group’s systems
of internal control and whistle blowing procedures are adequate.
They consider the re-appointment of auditors, their fees, and the
scope and findings of their audit. The committee consists solely of
non-executive directors, and its terms of reference are available
from the Company Secretary on request.
An account of the Group’s position and prospects is given in 
the Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive’s Review on 
pages 9 to 15. 26 Corporate Governance
Compliance Statement
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 the company has
been in compliance with the Code provisions set out 
in Section 1 of the Combined Code except for the following matter:
•   directors’ notice and contract periods are set at more than one
year as explained on page 30.
Fulmar plc  
°
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE for preparing the Annual
Report and the financial statements. The directors are required to
prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Company law
requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in
accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation. They continue to prepare financial statements
for the company in accordance with UK GAAP.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial
statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This
requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions,
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions
and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards
Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of
Financial Statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair
presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable
IFRS. Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and under-
standable information; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial
performance. 28 Statement of Director’ Responsibilities
In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, the directors are
required to prepare financial statements for each financial year
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company. In preparing these financial statements, the directors
are also required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
• make judgements that are reasonable and prudent; and
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the
assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation
of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report which
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the company website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Fulmar plc  
°
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29
Directors’ Remuneration Report
THE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT Regulations 2002
require the auditors to report to the company’s members on the
‘auditable part’ of the directors’ remuneration report and to state
whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as
amended by the Regulations). All information relating to the
‘auditable part’ of the report is shown in note 4 to the accounts.
In all other respects the report contains unaudited information.
Information about the emoluments and share options of the
directors is given in note 4 to the accounts. Their interests in the
share capital of the company are shown on page 18.
The remuneration policy for executive directors is controlled by
the remuneration and nominations committee of the board,
comprising the independent non-executive directors, J K McKay
and J D Dutton. Their aim is to ensure that the remuneration
packages for executive directors are designed to attract, motivate
and retain high quality individuals. The packages reflect the
executives’ own responsibilities and the performance of the Group
as a whole.
The remuneration policy is as follows:
• competitive salaries are provided by reference to information
on similar positions in the printing and related industries;
• each executive director will receive an annual bonus if the
percentage increase in the Group’s earnings per share in that
year exceeds a threshold of the percentage increase in the retail
price index in that period plus 3%, such bonus to be at a rate
of 1.5% of the executive director’s basic salary for each 1% that
the earnings per share exceeds the threshold; 30 Directors’ Remuneration Report
• where circumstances exist beyond the scope of the policy (such
as negative earnings per share in the prior year), the
remuneration and nominations committee will use its
discretion to determine whether any bonus is payable and, if
so, the amount of such bonus. In forming its view, the
committee will take account of the bonus arrangements set out
in the directors’ contracts;
• the company makes fixed payments into the Group’s main
defined contribution pension scheme having taken account of
the level of basic salary;
• directors may be granted options under the share option plan
and hold options under the sharesave scheme;
• a benefits package is provided including an appropriate
company car, or alternative, and medical expense and
permanent health insurances;
• service contracts are of two years duration and are terminable
by not less than two years notice by either party. Whilst the
committee acknowledges that there is a case for setting one
year notice and contract periods, the committee considers the
current arrangements to be in the best interests of the Group in
maintaining the services of its key directors. Any compensation
payments will be determined having regard to the particular
circumstances of the case.
As set out in note 4 to the accounts, the executive directors
have waived their right to receive a bonus for 2005 under the
annual bonus scheme. The bonus was waived because it resulted
mainly from exceptional items.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined
by the board as a whole in line with fees paid to non-executive
directors of similar companies. They are normally appointed
under fixed term contracts of two years duration and are
terminable by not less than one years notice by either party. 
The board appoints new non-executive directors following
recommendations of suitable candidates from its professional
advisers, and subsequent interviews.
D J Harris, who retires and offers himself for re-election, is
engaged under a service contract which is terminable by not less
than two years notice by either party.
The details of the directors’ contracts are summarised below:
Date of contract
J D Dutton 01.02.05
M E Taylor 13.03.96
D J Harris 13.03.96
M A Austin 13.03.96
J K McKay 30.06.04
The committee also approves the terms, conditions and
allocation of the company share option and sharesave schemes.
Options are granted under the schemes in phases to offer long
term incentives to the Group’s employees (including the
company’s directors who participate with the other employees)
and to allow them to have a stake in its growth.
Fulmar plc  
°
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31
