 Annual Report 2011
CEO’s statement
17
It gives me great pleasure to report fuse8’s 
maiden results on behalf of the Board. 
During the year to 31 March 2011, the 
Company increased turnover by 12% 
to £5.1 million and, more importantly, 
revenues by some 8% to £3.6 million, 
representing a solid performance and our 
fifth year of consecutive revenue growth. 
Top line growth has been achieved while 
maintaining good operating margins.
We have experienced good levels of new 
client activity, which gives us confidence 
for the future. The most encouraging 
aspect to the new financial year is the 
scale of the opportunity we see ahead 
of us. Blue chip clients are seeking us 
out and the opportunities this brings 
are exciting, from both a technological 
and business perspective. It is also great 
to see that existing clients have reaped 
the benefits of our services and are now 
looking to digital communications to help 
them deliver a richer customer experience.
Recent enhancements in technology, 
delivered by our R&D investments, 
have produced excellent results for our 
clients and, in turn, created stronger 
relationships, and therefore recurring 
revenues. Our team of talented people 
has been expanded throughout the 
year and is bringing new insight and a 
fresh perspective to our client offering.
fuse8’s client offering combines fully 
integrated online and digital marketing 
solutions, supported by conventional 
marketing services, which enables 
the Company to provide clients with 
a seamless service across all media 
channels. The value of the digitally focused 
services we provide to our clients is 
reflected in our continued revenue and 
profits growth. The challenging economic 
climate of the last two years has meant 
that marketeers are looking for more 
measurable value in their marketing 
spend, and the data-oriented results 
achieved through digital communications 
have ensured that demand for these 
services has remained robust. 
Increasing proportions of our clients’ 
budgets are being spent on digital 
communications. This is partly due to our 
clients’ desire to explore the opportunities 
afforded to them with better customer 
engagement through social media 
channels. fuse8 is helping many of its 
clients steer a safe strategic passage 
through the minefield of user generated 
content and viral communication 
that, potentially, threatens their brand 
messages at every turn. The Company’s 
eleven year heritage in digital marketing 
means that clients need, and value, the 
expertise we can apply to servicing their 
individual business requirements.
Clients continue to utilise the skills of 
fuse8 for both their digital and traditional 
marketing, however we are seeing a 
marked shift in the majority of activity 
into the digital arena; both from current 
clients and our new business pipeline. 
Demand and appetite for new technology 
has grown steadily over the period with 
clients old and new looking particularly 
to mobile and tablet technology plus 
applications to form part of their overall 
digital communications strategy.
fuse8 is not immune to the economic 
difficulties affecting the UK and Europe. 
During the year under review the 
Company has seen some clients, most 
noticeably in the public sector, being 
slower to commit to previously agreed 
plans or spend. However, a diverse 
client base and a focus on new business 
has allowed the Company to continue 
growing revenue and to invest in its 
digital service offer for clients, producing 
measurable results and ensuring that 
fuse8 remains an attractive partner in 
this value-conscious environment. 
fuse8’s related office in Russia is 
an offshore technology and digital 
production centre that has been 
successfully established for the last 
eight years. There are currently 32 
highly skilled staff in Russia and, as 
our Centre of Technical Excellence, 
they continue to deliver a high quality 
and cost effective service for clients. 
Strategy
As stated at the time of fuse8’s admission 
to AIM, the Company’s plan is to grow 
revenue and profits, steadily over time, 
both organically and by acquisition, to 
become one of the pre-eminent digital 
marketing agencies in the UK. The financial 
and operational achievements of the 
last year have been positive steps in the 
Group’s strategy. The next steps are to:
•  achieve sustained organic growth 
by investing in our client services, 
focusing on digital communications 
and targeting client sectors that 
provide long term clients who we 
can support in building brands
•  identify and acquire complementary 
businesses with good quality 
management and profit streams
•  expand the Company’s 
production capacity in lower cost 
environments to allow continued 
investment in service and R&D, 
while achieving margins 
•  ensure the Company’s organic 
growth is supported by investment 
in the marketing technology 
toolbox used to deliver services 
that help to continually 
enhance our client offering. 
New Business
There have been a number of 
significant new client wins during the 
period. Wins include Ikea, London 
Stock Exchange, McArthurGlen, Peel 
Holdings, Soreen and Unilever. 
The new business pipeline continues to 
grow at pace, with fuse8’s core digital 
services providing the Company with a 
stronger foothold with existing clients 
and also offering many new business 
opportunities. New business activity is 
the lifeblood of any business and we 
approach ours with relentless enthusiasm.
fuse8 has three strategic areas from which 
it targets new business; cross selling of 
services to its current clients; winning new 
clients; and through strategic partnerships. 
Acquisitions
fuse8 completed its first acquisition, 
Delete Digital Marketing (‘Delete’), in 
November 2010. This gave the Group the 
foothold in London that it sought and 
a complementary team of experienced 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
For the year ended 31 March 2011
fuse8.com Annual Report 2011
CEO’s statement
18
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
For the year ended 31 March 2011
digital marketing specialists. The Delete 
team has been integrated into the 
enlarged business successfully and we 
have seen encouraging increases in new 
client interest and opportunities to offer 
additional expertise to more clients. 
The Board recognises that a larger 
business will help increase the Company’s 
efficiency and profile and also fulfil our 
strategic plans. To that end, it is regularly 
appraising acquisition opportunities.
Financial Review 
Turnover increased by 12% to £5.1 million 
whilst revenue increased by some 8% to 
£3.6 million. This means we have grown 
our revenues for five consecutive years.
Administrative overheads increased 
due to the increased sales volumes, 
investment into additional development 
of technology solutions and, of course, 
the incremental costs associated with 
being a listed company. The operating 
margin achieved increased modestly from 
the previous year to 19%, a performance 
that is in the top quartile of our sector.
As well as monitoring operating margin, 
the Company uses other KPI’s including; 
revenue per head, overheads per 
head, and the ratio of compensation 
expenses to revenue to monitor the 
performance of the business.
Exceptional costs incurred in the year 
represent the one-off costs (both cash 
and non-cash) arising from the reverse 
acquisition, which achieved the admission 
to AIM and the acquisition of Delete.
Taxation charge of £0.2 million represents 
an effective rate of 29% of headline profit 
before tax. The Company’s expectation 
is that the long term effective rate 
should generally be around the UK 
corporation tax rate (currently 28%) 
plus a modest increase due to some 
expenses being non-deductible items.
Our balance sheet remains robust for 
our size and we have positive cash 
balances of £0.2 million and an unused 
overdraft facility. Operational cashflow 
was 67% of operating profits due to 
material working capital movements in 
Q4. The Company’s target is to convert 
100% of operating profits to operating 
cashflow in the medium term. 
Capital expenditure was higher than 
average during the year due to a number 
of renewals in the Company’s vehicle fleet.
The Company is in a growth phase and 
therefore the Board does not propose 
a dividend for the year under review.
Summary & Outlook
It is pleasing to see yet another year 
of revenue growth and good margins 
delivered by the Company, against 
the backdrop of a flat economy.
This solid performance is only possible 
due to the intelligence, tenacity and 
endeavour of all the fuse8 team. We are 
proud of the service our team delivers 
to our clients and I would like to thank 
each member of our team for their 
contribution to our achievements this year.
Our future looks bright. However we can 
show no complacency in continually 
striving to provide clients with world class 
solutions to their marketing requirements. 
We are looking to achieve further growth 
in the year ahead and our new business 
pipeline remains encouraging.
Turnover increased 
by 12% to £5.1 
million whilst 
revenue increased 
by some 8% to £3.6 
million. This means 
we have grown our 
revenues for five 
consecutive years.
Nigel Hunter 
Chief Executive Officer 
29 June 2011
fuse8.com Annual Report 2011
Contents
Annual Report 2011
Financial statements
Financial 
statements  
& notes
19
Ultimately it’s all about 
figures. Everything we do, 
when you look at it very, 
very closely, can be broken 
down into ones and zeros in 
various patterns. However, 
there are some other 
important numbers too...
fuse8.com
