 Alexandra plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
Sales volumes increased during the year by
2%, in a market that is, at best, flat and
remains fragmented and price competitive. This
confirms our belief that Alexandra’s market
share continues to increase. A number of our
competitors are experiencing financial
difficulties and there are market indications
that, in order to restore profitability, some are
providing lower quality garments and customer
service. We believe this will provide additional
opportunities for Alexandra as our brand is
synonymous with quality.
Gross margins have benefited from our ability
to reduce input costs without adversely
affecting product quality or service. This
demonstrates the effectiveness of the
Company’s global procurement capability and
also provides us with a significant competitive
advantage. When participating in tenders the
Company maintains a disciplined approach to
pricing to avoid unprofitable business. 
Currently we have twelve shops having assigned
the leases on three during the year. We are now
almost down to our target number and the
remaining sites will fulfil the roles of regional
centres, showrooms and meeting venues, and
will also provide marketing support.
Sales and marketing
Turnover in the Corporate Division has
continued to grow and the Workwear Divisions,
selling to the health, public, retail and
hospitality sectors, have performed well.
Demand in the manufacturing sector, however,
continues to decline. 
We have continued to pursue, successfully, our
strategy of targeting large corporate accounts
and have won new Pan-European business 
during the year. 
A venture was established with the
JT’s Corporation Limited in October
2003. This supplies clothing to the
promotions industry and performed
in line with management
expectations contributing £0.7
million of sales in the final four
months of the year.   
In the Mail Order Division, which
accounts for some 25% of turnover,
a number of initiatives were
introduced during the second half of the year
to increase turnover. These are already
producing positive results.
Debt
A key objective, during the year, was to reduce
borrowings. As a result of strong operational
cash flow and tight control over working capital
our net debt fell by £5.4 million to £14.5
million. Although, in total, stock only fell by
£0.2 million to £28.3 million, this was achieved
after purchasing £0.7 million of products for
the new venture with JT’s Corporation Limited.
The underlying reduction in stock in the core
business was therefore £0.9 million.
Property
One of our two surplus factory sites was sold
during the year for £0.8 million, which equated
to net book value.  With regard to the
remaining site, currently being used for
warehousing and sample production, we are
investigating the possibility of securing planning
permission to enhance its value. Subject to
planning approval being obtained, which may
take some time, the property will be sold and
the current activity relocated locally to smaller
leasehold premises. 6 Alexandra plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
We are a multinational supplier of
workplace clothing dedicated to
providing customers with
innovative design,
top quality garments, best prices
and the highest level of
service support. Alexandra plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7
Chief Executive’s
Review — continued
Staff
A new Head of Marketing, Colin Cole, and
Head of Sales, James Tucker, have been
recruited and both are already making a
significant contribution to the Group. Also the
recruitment of Ken Gibbs, as Corporate
Planning Director (designate), reinforces the
Finance Department and will enable the Group
to progress acquisition opportunities.
In addition, the senior management team in all
divisions has been strengthened and the team-
working culture extended.
Significant changes have been agreed with the
members of the defined benefit pension
scheme (closed to new entrants in 2001).
These changes, which include an increased
Company contribution, in conjunction with the
continued recovery in the value of the fund’s
stock market investments, are designed to
eliminate the deficit over the life of the
scheme. 
Strategy
The Board believes Alexandra is in a good
position to increase both sales and market
share organically by taking advantage of its
leading market position, global procurement
capability, sustained high service levels and
financial strength. In addition, industry
consolidation provides an opportunity for
Alexandra and acquisitions continue to be
carefully investigated.  
Conclusion
During the past six years the focus of attention
throughout the Group has been the transition
from textile manufacturing to global
procurement and the creation of a meaningful
Corporate Clothing division. Now these are
complete the objective of the entire
management team will be profitable growth.
Julian R Budd
Chief Executive
