  REVIEW OF THE YEAR
Fusionex International Plc
Annual report 2013
 Chairman’s Statement
2013 has been a very significant year in the Company’s history, marked 
in the first quarter by the Company’s highly successful IPO in London 
and culminating in a very strong financial performance reflected in the 
Company’s share price, which has more than doubled since admission. 
The Company’s success has also been widely recognised through a 
number of prestigious awards won during the year.
Following its successful listing on the Alternative Investment Market 
(AIM) in London on 18 December 2012, with gross proceeds of 
GBP12  million raised through its significantly oversubscribed share 
placement, Fusionex’s business has continued to show strong revenue 
and profit growth, supported by many significant and prestigious new 
business wins in key markets. During the year the Company also made 
good progress in expanding its geographic coverage, opening new 
offices in Hong Kong and Australia.
During the year the Company has invested heavily in product 
development, with a particular focus on Big Data, and has further 
strengthened and widened the features and functionalities of its suite 
of software solutions, namely its core transactional engine (CTE) as well 
as its multi-award winning business intelligence and analytics software 
(BI Centre). The recently announced launch of the Company’s flagship 
Big Data Analytics software, GIANT, in December 2013, is proof of the 
Company’s determination to deliver on its IPO promises. GIANT can be 
used anywhere, anyhow (whether via an on-premise, “cloud” or hybrid 
approach) and rendered over any form (smartphone, PC, laptop, tablet, 
etc.). It is already one of the most comprehensive, if not the most 
comprehensive, Big Data Analytics software available on the market, 
and further feature releases and product upgrades planned by the team 
will elevate its status as the top Big Data Analytics software in terms of 
features and user-experience.
Big Data is seen as the new wave of opportunity to organisations in that 
the information that can be harnessed from such data is immensely 
valuable. Fusionex has developed GIANT to help organisations transform 
raw data into useful information for the much needed insights to run 
their businesses.
Fusionex has exceeded expectations for 2013 and we look forward to 
an exciting 2014. With continued investments in sales, R&D and product 
development, your Board remains confident that Fusionex will be 
in a strong position to continue to deliver profitable growth and take 
advantage of the rapidly expanding market for its products and services 
on an expanding geographical footprint.
John Croft
Non-Executive Chairman
15 January 2014
Fusionex’s business 
has continued to show 
strong revenue and profit 
growth, and has exceeded 
expectations for 2013.
SUMMARY
 › Fusionex made good progress expanding 
its geographical coverage
 › The Company has invested heavily in 
product development with a particular 
focus on Big Data
 › Fusionex has developed GIANT to 
help organisations transform data 
into useful information
02
Fusionex International Plc
Annual report 2013
