 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
Fusionex International Plc
Annual report 2013 03
 CEO’s Review
Overview
The first quarter of Fusionex’s financial year of 2013 bore witness to 
Fusionex’s IPO being significantly oversubscribed on 18 December 2012. 
This has since provided us with a strong platform to accelerate Fusionex’s 
research and development initiatives, as well as execute its strategic 
growth goals and targets towards the development and further 
expansion of the Group. 
For the financial year of 2013, we have consistently delivered on our 
promises in terms of corporate and business achievements, product 
development and enhancements, as well as the all-important financial 
milestones, serving as a solid testimony towards the Group’s ability to 
achieve strong double digit, but at the same time, sustainable growth. 
Achievements and expansion
Following the IPO, Fusionex has increased its sales by cross-selling 
products and solutions, and has expanded its geographical footprint to 
Hong Kong, Greater China Region, Indonesia and Australia. Despite these 
initiatives occurring towards the middle and later part of the financial 
year, the results and potential for further sales growth are evident by the 
42% growth in the Group’s revenue as well as the 48% growth in gross 
profit. In addition, the Group’s profit after tax (PAT) increased by 45%. 
This underlines the Group’s strong management capabilities and growth 
strategy, alongside its transition as a public listed company.
Fusionex has been consistently recognised by the IT industry for the 
quality of its products and offerings; 2013 was no different as Fusionex 
once again recorded numerous award wins in the area of product 
excellence. Our multinational presence and recognition is reflected by 
the variety of awards received at different levels, from the international 
Microsoft awards won for consecutive years running, to awards won in 
the ASEAN region (such as the SiTF Awards for both best application as 
well as best emerging technology and the MSC Malaysia award for Best 
General Application), and even awards won on a wider regional basis 
such as the prestigious Asia Pacific ICT Alliance (APICTA) award for the 
Best Application Tools/Platform category. Winning these awards not only 
serves as an endorsement towards the high quality of our products and 
offerings, but also provides the recognition due to our team for their 
efforts to continuously stay ahead of the curve in terms of technology.
Moving forward, the Group intends to establish a partner channel 
network to widen our reach and to further grow our business. It is our 
belief that this approach will propel Fusionex towards accelerating its 
expansion plans in a scalable manner. 
Fusionex remains focused 
towards becoming a leading 
provider in Big Data Analytics. 
The hugely positive reception 
received for GIANT provides 
us with strong conviction to 
scale further heights in our 
organisational growth.
SUMMARY
 › The IPO has provided Fusionex with a strong 
platform to accelerate its R&D initiatives, 
strategic growth goals and targets
 › Fusionex is consistently recognised for 
the quality of its products and offerings, 
and has recorded numerous award wins 
in 2013
 › Strategic partnerships with Cloudera and 
Hortonworks established
 › Asia Pacific continues to be the Group’s 
main geographical focus where market 
and demand for Analytics and Big Data 
continues to rise  REVIEW OF THE YEAR
Fusionex International Plc
Annual report 2013 04
 CEO’s Review (continued)
GIANT and technology
Following its IPO, the Group has initiated the development and 
enhancements to the Group’s suite of software products to cater to an 
even wider audience across different verticals. The Group places a strong 
focus on Business Intelligence and Analytics, identified for the past few 
years consecutively by leading marker researcher Gartner as the number 
one technology priority for CIOs.
The recent launch of Fusionex’s flagship Big Data Analytics product, 
GIANT, shortly before the end of the first quarter of our financial year of 
2014, fuels additional growth potential for the Group. Independent 
analyst firm Wikibon has opined that the Big Data market is on the verge 
of a rapid growth trajectory that will see it top the $50 billion mark 
worldwide within the next 5 years. It also opines that this growth is fuelled 
by increased interest and awareness in the power of Big Data capabilities 
to gain competitive advantage and improve operational efficiencies.
Fusionex GIANT stands apart from the competition due to its unique 
differentiators, where GIANT performs a “Connect & Collect” activity over 
and above the standard “store, process and access” (SPA) for Big Data. 
Many players in the market wrongly assume that organisations already 
have the tools and know-how to “Connect & Collect” raw data, and that 
these organisations already have Big Data or Hadoop capabilities, which 
is more often than not a wrong assumption. With GIANT, end-users will 
be able to leverage on our platform and tools to “Connect & Collect” the 
requisite data (including complex data), before carrying out the “SPA” 
activity. In other words, it is an end-to-end Big Data Analytics product 
which addresses the issue of organisations looking for Big Data Analytics 
without planning to learn about complex Big Data technologies.
In conjunction with GIANT’s release, we also established strategic 
partnerships with both Cloudera and Hortonworks, 2 of the most 
established distribution platform providers. The complementary and 
synergistic nature of these partnerships will provide the ideal platforms 
for Fusionex GIANT to function as the last-mile business solution to 
organisations via Big Data Analytics.
Outlook
Fusionex remains focused on becoming a leading provider in Big Data 
Analytics. Asia Pacific continues to be the Group’s main geographical 
focus, where we see market and demand for Analytics and Big Data rising 
in line with growth trends but in the absence of established world-class 
ICT players originating from this region, apart from Fusionex. This presents 
a unique business opportunity for Fusionex, and its know-how for the 
Asian market remains a key competitive advantage. 
Our strong presence in this region, coupled with the hugely positive 
reception received for GIANT from existing clients and new clients alike, 
provides us with strong conviction to scale further heights in our 
organisational growth. 
As we sum up the end of a hugely successful year, we turn our sights 
towards the horizon with confidence as Fusionex – the “Falcon of Asia” – 
spreads its wings and soars towards new heights. 
Ivan Teh
CEO and Managing Director
15 January 2014
