 04 FUTURA MEDICAL plc Annual Report 2011
21233.04 13/03/2012 Proof 7
2011 was a landmark year for Futura in that we received CE mark approval for CSD500, our innovative 
condom to help healthy men maintain a firmer erection. CSD500 is the first product that Futura has 
conceived, developed and guided through the regulatory process to approval. In addition, we made 
considerable progress with other products in our pipeline and strengthened our Board with the 
appointment of John Clarke as Chairman, to lead the Company through the next stages in its corporate 
development.
I would like at this point to convey my profound thanks to Bill Potter, the Company’s former Chairman, 
and to acknowledge his pivotal role in the evolution of Futura to date. I am delighted that Bill’s invaluable counsel and scientific 
expertise will continue to be available to Futura in his new role as Chief Scientific Officer. 
John Clarke, the former President of GlaxoSmithKline’s Consumer Healthcare division, joined as Chairman in February 2012.  
He was attracted to Futura because of the Company’s untapped potential and opportunity for growth through innovation.
David Davies, Futura’s Product Development Director, became Chief Development Officer in November 2011, reflecting the 
Company’s increasing emphasis on its product pipeline.
Futura’s prime objective is to become profitable with income streams from multiple products and the expectation of the launch 
this year of two of its products will be significant progress towards this objective.
An important part of Futura’s strategy is licensing its products to major global companies who are best placed to commercialise 
them. Futura demonstrated continued success with its licensing strategy during the year when in February 2011 we announced 
an exclusive worldwide agreement with Ansell Limited, one of the world’s major sexual health companies, for PET500, our 
innovative spray for enhanced sexual control.
Futura now has commercial relationships with three global companies: Reckitt Benckiser, GlaxoSmithKline and Ansell. 
In addition, we recently entered into an evaluation agreement with a pharmaceutical company in connection with TPR100-Rx, 
our prescription-strength topical pain relief product. We continue to be in discussion with potential partners interested in our other 
products.
With two products close to launch, we placed an increased emphasis during the year on building up our early stage product 
opportunities. We have generated a number of potential new products. One of these, CRF100 for the treatment of cellulite, has 
already successfully completed formulation development and has exciting commercial potential.
CRF100, which uses our highly efficient transdermal delivery system, DermaSys
®
, is a cosmoceutical. We believe that CRF100 
presents an interesting commercial opportunity, which will be developed in line with the robust scientific principles applied 
throughout the Company’s portfolio of products.
Chief Executive’s Review 
James Barder
21233-04FUTURAME.indd   4 13/03/2012   09:32:10 FUTURA MEDICAL plc Annual Report 2011 05
21233.04 13/03/2012 Proof 7
Our business model continues to be based on a modest cash burn and at the end of the year we had cash resources of  
£2.6 million. In March 2011 we strengthened our financial position through a placing that raised £3.1 million (net of expenses). 
A further £0.5 million was raised in the year through the issue of shares to employees following share option exercises and the 
subscription for shares awarded and accrued under the long-term incentive scheme.
We expect our first recurring income to commence during the current financial year, as the Company moves towards its key 
objective of becoming a profitable R&D company at the forefront of topical drug innovation.
We continue to manage our financial resources carefully, we work only on projects where the commercial and clinical 
opportunities are compelling and we own the intellectual property rights to all our products, hence protecting and maximising 
the potential commercial and shareholder return.
Portfolio updates — Sexual healthcare
CSD500: Condom safety device
The formal award of the CE mark for CSD500 took place in August 2011, authorising CSD500 to be marketed in 29 European 
territories and in a number of other non-European territories that recognise the CE mark process.
CSD500 represents the biggest innovation in the condom industry since the advent of latex condoms. We are in discussions 
with Reckitt Benckiser in connection with launch timing and we will update our shareholders as soon as we are able to do so.
CSD500 benefits from three marketing claims, clinically proven and approved by the regulatory authorities: the maintenance of 
a firmer erection, increased penile size and a longer lasting sexual experience for women. These claims were established in a 
statistically significant user study involving 108 couples.
The product’s unique intellectual property position has been protected throughout the world including the principal consumer 
markets within Europe, the USA and Canada through patents now granted or proceeding to grant in 35 countries with one 
application pending.
As previously reported, the results of our own market research reinforce the commercial potential of CSD500 for men and 
women who already use condoms as well as for men and women who do not currently use condoms. Market research, 
conducted by an internationally recognised research company, showed that 88% of existing condom users would be interested 
in purchasing CSD500 and that 49% of non-condom users would be interested in purchasing the product. The research also 
showed that 46% of men had experienced some loss of sensitivity when using a condom during sexual intercourse, which 
can lead to loss of erection. This is one reason why some men avoid condoms, thereby increasing the risks of unwanted 
pregnancies and contracting or spreading sexually transmitted infections.
Chief Executive’s Review 
21233-04FUTURAME.indd   5 13/03/2012   09:32:10 06 FUTURA MEDICAL plc Annual Report 2011
21233.04 13/03/2012 Proof 7
MED2002: Treatment for erectile dysfunction
MED2002, our topical gel for the treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, is also licensed to Reckitt Benckiser and shares 
the same active ingredient as CSD500. MED2002 has the potential to become the world’s first non-prescription pharmaceutical 
treatment for erectile dysfunction, a condition that affects, to some degree, as many as 52% of men aged 40 or over¹.
As previously reported, initial discussions have taken place with regulators to identify the most appropriate regulatory pathway. 
We look forward to providing a further update in due course.
PET500: Enhanced sexual control
PET500 is a topical spray that combines our DermaSys
®
 AquaFree delivery system with a well-known mild topical anaesthetic. 
It is designed to delay male ejaculation and to take effect rapidly.
In February 2011 we were delighted to announce that Ansell Limited, one of the world’s major sexual health companies, had 
signed an exclusive worldwide agreement to commercialise PET500. Under the terms of the agreement with Ansell, Futura will 
receive a significant royalty rate on sales under the terms of this agreement.
PET500 was designed to comply with the current USA Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) monograph for male genital 
desensitisers. The product can therefore be marketed in the USA without any further regulatory approval or clinical data. Futura 
will work closely with Ansell on the successful completion of any clinical work in territories where regulators require additional 
data.
PET500 will be marketed as part of Ansell’s LifeStyles
®
 brand and it is expected that it will be launched from July in a phased 
roll-out throughout the USA. We expect recurring royalty income to begin to flow this year but as the launch is phased the initial 
royalties are likely to be relatively modest.
Our commercial agreement with Ansell precludes further comment but we look forward to updating shareholders at the 
appropriate time.
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Note
¹ Massachusetts Male Aging Study (MMAS), J Urol. 1994 Jan; I5I (1): 54-61
21233-04FUTURAME.indd   6 13/03/2012   09:32:10 FUTURA MEDICAL plc Annual Report 2011 07
21233.04 13/03/2012 Proof 7
Portfolio updates — Pain relief management
TPR100: Topical pain relief
TPR100 uses our highly efficient transdermal delivery system, DermaSys
®
, for the delivery of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug (“NSAID”). As previously announced, clinical tests carried out by Futura have shown that TPR100 achieves approximately 
35 times higher bioavailability than that achieved by the market-leading product. TPR100’s speed of permeation brings potential 
benefits including the rapid onset of action of pain relief.
Futura has a development agreement for TPR100 with GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (“GSK”) under which GSK is 
responsible for all clinical and regulatory development including its funding. GSK is also making modest annual payments to 
Futura whilst development work proceeds.
Development work is progressing well. As previously reported TPR100 will begin its pivotal clinical programme in 2012, which is 
expected to complete towards the end of 2013. Assuming satisfactory clinical outcomes and regulatory approval both parties 
expect to enter into a commercial distribution agreement.
TPR100-Rx: Higher strength topical pain relief for prescription based indications
TPR100-Rx contains a higher dose of the same NSAID as TPR100. This will require it to be regulated as a prescription product 
for the treatment of more profound pain associated with conditions such as osteoarthritis and rheumatic pain. Its targeted 
delivery through the skin has the potential benefit of avoiding the systemic side-effects seen in the use of oral NSAIDs.
We are pleased to announce that we have entered into an evaluation agreement with a pharmaceutical company in connection 
with the development and commercialisation of the product in certain key territories. We look forward to providing an update on 
this evaluation agreement in due course.
Discussions are also continuing with other potential partners.
CRF100: Topical treatment for cellulite
CRF100 is a topically applied cream for the treatment of cellulite, the condition characterised by dimpled skin, which we added 
to our early stage pipeline in December 2011. It comprises a well-characterised chemical species (an alkaloid) within Futura’s 
DermaSys
®
 delivery system. The alkaloid is already used by a number of major cosmetics companies in the treatment of cellulite 
and its use, at levels sufficient to produce a physiological effect, is supported by a growing body of scientific literature.
We intend to develop CRF100 using robust scientific principles and we were therefore delighted to have appointed Professor 
Anthony Rawlings, a Visiting Professor at the London School of Pharmacy and expert in the science of cosmetics, as an adviser 
to assist in the product’s clinical development.
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
21233-04FUTURAME.indd   7 13/03/2012   09:32:10 08 FUTURA MEDICAL plc Annual Report 2011
21233.04 13/03/2012 Proof 7
CRF100 has been shown in vitro to achieve at least an eight-fold improvement in delivery of the alkaloid through the skin 
compared with a number of market-leading comparator products. It is intended that CRF100 will be a cosmetic product and 
will be licensed at an appropriate time to a major global company for commercialisation. A number of patent applications are 
in various stages of grant or prosecution and further applications may be considered pending the achievement of successful 
clinical outcomes.
We are currently using Raman spectroscopy to define the absorption profile of the active through the skin to ensure that it can 
be delivered successfully in appropriate quantities to the target site and to have the desired cosmetic effect. Once this work 
is completed we intend to conduct a placebo-controlled clinical trial which is scheduled to commence in the first half of 2012 
with the integrated report available during the second half of 2012. This trial would be carried out by an experienced contract 
research organisation in continental Europe, and has been designed under the guidance of Professor Rawlings to be conducted 
in accordance with Futura’s robust scientific principles.
RAD100: Rapid anaesthetic delivery
RAD100 is designed to achieve rapid topical anaesthesia of the skin prior to injection, vaccination or cannulation. In early in vitro 
work, as previously reported, we have shown a 250% increase in the rate of permeation of a topical anaesthetic across the skin 
using RAD100 when compared with an established product.
Our objective is to create a product with a substantially increased speed of onset of skin desensitisation compared with current 
treatments (which take at least 30 to 45 minutes to provide anaesthesia). We do not believe that the current formulation of 
RAD100 is optimised to give a sufficiently rapid speed of onset to be commercially attractive so the product is being redesigned 
with the objective of achieving an onset of action of less than 15 minutes. We will advance the product only if this speed of 
onset can be achieved.
Early Stage Product Development
We have a rigorous approach to vetting potential new products and our interest is contingent upon robust evidence-based 
outcomes. Our initial evaluation includes five key criteria: performance, aesthetics, stability, defensible intellectual property and 
commercial potential. Unless a new opportunity gives a clear indication of meeting these criteria then the product concept will 
not progress to the next stage of development.
Futura’s highly efficient DermaSys
®
 delivery system is a versatile asset and we are currently working on a number of potential 
products at various stages. We look forward to providing further updates as appropriate.
People
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to all of our staff, scientific advisers and commercial partners for their contribution to the 
development of the Company throughout the year.
Outlook
During 2012 Futura expects to make a transformational step in its development by receiving its first recurring income. We also 
expect to continue to make progress during the year with our product pipeline. We look forward to the future with confidence.
James Barder
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
21233-04FUTURAME.indd   8 13/03/2012   09:32:10
