 02 FUTURA MEDICAL plc Annual Report 2011
21233.04 13/03/2012 Proof 7
We have several products in our development pipeline for sexual healthcare and pain relief management and we are also 
working on the next generation of product opportunities. 
 — Our 
proprietary drug delivery 
technology
Futura has developed a highly efficient and proprietary 
transdermal delivery technology, DermaSys
®
, for 
the absorption of active molecules through the skin. 
DermaSys
®
 is a versatile technology in that it can be 
tailored to suit the specific active compound being used 
and the therapeutic indication. Such targeted delivery 
offers an optimised profile in terms of dose, onset time 
and duration of effect, as well as an improved safety 
profile through lower systemic uptake and the reduced risk 
of side effects.
Whilst developing PET500, our product for enhanced 
sexual control, we also expanded the DermaSys
®
 delivery 
technology platform and produced a new and unique 
delivery system, DermaSys
®
 AquaFree, which does not 
contain water. DermaSys
®
 AquaFree enables drugs 
that are water sensitive (hydrolytically unstable or which 
have only limited hydrolytic stability) to be developed 
into potentially commercially attractive products with the 
additional benefit of rapid transdermal delivery.
To maximise the value of these intellectual property 
assets, we continue to evaluate their use with a range of 
compounds.
Futura has a development agreement with 
GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”) for TPR100, our product for 
pain relief. Under the terms of the agreement GSK will 
fund and be responsible for all clinical and regulatory 
development. GSK will also make modest annual 
payments to Futura whilst development work proceeds. 
Subject to satisfactory clinical outcomes and regulatory 
approvals both parties expect to enter into a commercial 
distribution agreement.
Futura signed an exclusive worldwide agreement in 
February 2011 with Ansell Limited (“Ansell”), one of 
the world’s major sexual health companies for the 
commercialisation of PET500 our product for enhanced 
sexual control.
Our licensing partnerships
Futura has a global distribution agreement with the world’s 
largest branded condom manufacturer and distributor, 
Reckitt Benckiser (“RB”), makers of the Durex
®
 condom 
range, for CSD500 for the lifetime of its patents. CSD500 is 
a condom aimed at helping healthy men maintain a firmer 
erection during intercourse whilst wearing a condom. 
CSD500 was awarded the marketing authorisation “CE 
mark” in August 2011.
Futura has also signed a global development and licensing 
agreement with RB for MED2002, our topical treatment for 
erectile dysfunction.
Futura at a Glance
21233-04FUTURAME.indd   2 13/03/2012   09:32:03
