 Chairman’s
statement
4 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2002 
Summary
Publishing magazines can be
successful as a business only if a
company is fortunate enough to 
have skilled and motivated people.
I am pleased to report to you that 
The Future Network has been very
successful in 2002 because of the
efforts of a talented and dedicated
staff. It is the ability and enthusiasm 
of almost a thousand people which
creates the success of our business.
Financial results
I am delighted to report that Group
turnover from continuing activities 
rose by 16% to £165.3m; profit 
before tax amounted to £10.7m in
comparison with losses in 2000 and
2001; and basic earnings per share
arose for the first time, amounting to
1.9 pence per share. 
Future was able to pay off all bank 
debt during 2002 and the Group ended
the year with net cash of £16.8m.
2002 was a very difficult year for most
media companies, particularly those
which rely on display advertising as 
a major part of their income. Against
this background, it is very pleasing to
report that The Future Network was one
of the best performing media shares in
Europe according to the brokerage firm
UBS Warburg.
Business activities
Our business of publishing a portfolio
of specialist consumer magazines has
been able to expand profitably and we
plan to make further progress in 2003.
At the end of 2002, Future published
more than 82 magazines in four
countries: the UK, US, France and 
Italy; with international licensing 
of many of our titles in 27 other
countries. The current portfolio is
focused around computer games,
computing and other specialist titles.
Board and corporate governance
Two non-executive Directors resigned
during 2002 in order to spend 
more time on their other business
interests. On 29 May we announced
the resignation of Elisabeth Murdoch
and on 25 September, the resignation
of Brendan Clouston. I am grateful to
both for their contributions over two
and three years respectively. 
At the end of last year, the Board as a
whole agreed that, while the balance of
non-executive and executive Directors
was satisfactory, it would be desirable
in due course to appoint at least one
more non-executive Director. I am
therefore very pleased that we are 
able to announce the appointment 
of John Mellon, the former Chairman 
of IPC Magazines and member of the
Executive Committee of Reed Elsevier;
and Lisa Gordon, the former Corporate 
Development Director of Chrysalis
Group, who both join the Board on
12 March 2003 as independent
non-executive Directors.
As a Board we are strongly focused 
on corporate governance issues,
which we believe can help both the
health and wealth of media companies.
It is my intention to ensure that Future
continues to have a good balance
between executive and non-executive
Directors and I welcome comments
from shareholders on this or any 
other corporate governance issues.
During the last year , we took a 
number of steps to strengthen 
Group management and control and 
our corporate governance report
explains these. 
In September, we appointed Mark Millar
as our new full-time Company Secretary
and Head of Legal. Mark is a solicitor
who joined us from one of the leading
international law firms, Allen & Overy.
He has a wide range of UK and
international commercial and corporate
finance experience, gained over a
10-year legal career in the City. 
Annual General Meeting
This year, our AGM will be held on
15 May and the business for that
meeting will include two significant 
new proposals. I will be writing to you
Roger Parry Chairman
Future is now well 
positioned – strategically,
managerially and financially 5 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2002 
separately with full details of our
proposals, which include the following
special business.
First, the Board has decided that it would
be appropriate to propose a reduction
of the Company’ s share premium
account in order to eliminate the
accumulated deficit on the Company’ s
profit and loss account. This step will
pave the way to enable the payment 
of dividends in due course.
Secondly, we propose to introduce 
a Long-Term Incentive Plan in order 
to align the interests of executive
Directors and senior management 
with those of shareholders generally. 
I signalled that we were considering
this matter when I wrote to shareholders
in April 2002, and the proposals we are
putting forward for this year’ s AGM are,
we believe, in the best interests of
shareholders and the Company.
Current trading and prospects
Current trading for 2003 has been
encouraging. I would remind shareholders
that Future has historically shown
much stronger trading in the second
half of the calendar year. 
It is also clear that our success in 
2003 will be affected by the general
economic climate, which at present 
is overshadowed by much international
uncertainty. 
Circulation revenue now accounts 
for 68% of Group turnover and is
expected to show growth in 2003. 
We expect advertising income to 
be flat this year. 
Future is now well positioned –
strategically, managerially and
financially. It is a successful specialist
consumer magazine publisher. I am
optimistic that our shareholders’
confidence in Future will continue to
prove justified in the years to come.
Roger Parry Chairman
11 March 2003
