 6 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2003
“I would like to thank the many creative and
commercial people we employ, who together
are responsible for the very good progress
we have made in 2003.”
Greg Ingham, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’ s review
In a market place where readers
are ever more demanding,
The Future Network is
recognised for the excellence 
of its magazines.
Turnover by sector 2003
Now published in 17 different countries (outside the UK)
T3 T omorrow’s T echnology T oday is a truly international magazine
and Future’ s most licensed title.
In November 2003, Future acquired the UK trading subsidiary 
of Computec Media AG. The principal magazines acquired 
were PSW and Xbox World and these are now published 
by Future in the UK.
Future Network USA’ s computing title Maximum PC enjoyed 
a 19% increase in advertising revenue in 2003.
Games 46%
Entertainment 22%
Computing 32%
Turnover by sector 2002
Games 45%
Entertainment 22%
Computing 33% 7 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2003
Special-interest consumer magazine publisher
The Future Network’ s publishing philosophy is based
on providing quality editorial products that are defined
by the depth of understanding of special-interest 
areas that meet the needs of defined groups of
readers. The magazines are characterised by editorial
authority, quality of content and high value. In a market
place where readers are ever more demanding,
The Future Network is recognised for the excellence 
of its magazines.
Our business model is typically based on premium
price, premium quality. And when the highest-priced is
also the biggest-selling, then there is an even more
attractive business opportunity. In turn, this creates an
appealing audience for advertisers: sector-leading
volumes of readers who have demonstrated their depth
of interest via purchasing high cover-price magazines.
Additionally, the scale of our magazines can also be
attractive for non-endemic advertisers.
And specialist is not a proxy for small. Our Official
PlayStation 2 Magazine in the UK is the ninth highest
ranking of all UK monthly magazines in terms of
consumer spend.
Games
We continued to drive our long-term success 
in the games sector in 2003. As signalled a year 
ago, the sector now accounts for 46% of Group 
revenues and 45% of Group profit (as measured 
by gross contribution). 
The Future Network is the worldwide leader in games
magazines, with 2003 revenues of £85m (2002:
£76m). Our largest-selling magazine is now the US
Official Xbox Magazine, with current monthly sales of
403,000, and we now publish editions of the Official
Xbox Magazine in five countries with licensed editions
in a further four . Our largest-selling UK magazine is
Official PlayStation 2 Magazine which sold a monthly
average of 188,000 copies in 2003, and we also
publish the Official PlayStation 2 Magazine in France. 
Overview
2003 was another successful year for The Future
Network. In this report I highlight several important
matters in addition to those set out in our operating
and financial review. I also provide an update on our
corporate strategy.
Management of the Group 
I am proud to have led the Group through a successful
year . I should like to start by recording my thanks to the
many creative and commercial people we employ, who
together are responsible for the very good progress we
have made in 2003.
Last year I outlined our ambition to launch new titles 
in 2003 and to make further acquisitions. In both
cases we have made real progress. We have expanded
our portfolio by doing both: launching in each of 
our four countries, and acquiring in the UK, the US 
and in France.
I am particularly pleased with the progress made
overseas, led by our country Managing Directors. In
the US, Jonathan Simpson-Bint has done a remarkable
job in leading strong growth in circulation, revenues
and profits. This underpinned our confidence to invest
in the acquisition of sector-leading guitar magazines 
in New Y ork in the autumn. 
Sari Zaimi has worked hard to ensure both operational
improvements in our French business as well as
effective integration of the titles we acquired last year
from Hachette. Our Italian business is now in a 
robust state under the strong leadership of Bernardo
Notarangelo. As a result of progress in both countries,
in terms of adjusted operating profit our Mainland
European businesses are now once more profitable.
Since September I have been acting Managing
Director of the UK business. Our UK results show a
business with very good margins – amongst 
the best in our industry. From here, our task is to
stimulate further growth in what has been our
strongest business.
It is interesting to note that The Future Network’ s
combined international sales – owned businesses,
licences and exports – exceed those in the UK,
further underpinning the improved quality of the
Group’ s earnings.
“Ever wake up dreading going to work? I don’t! As an
artist and a game lover what more could I possibly 
ask for than being the Art Director of my favorite game
console magazine at one of the best companies I’ll
ever work for ...not much. ”
Juliann Brown, Art Director , Official Xbox Magazine,
Future Network USA. 8 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2003
Computing
Computing titles provided 32% of our 2003 magazine
revenues. The Future Network is a significant publisher
of computing magazines in its four territories, with
2003 revenues of £58m (2002: £54m).
Once again we have increased our total computing
revenues, despite difficult market conditions. Our
teams, who are highly focused, have found smart ways
to develop new business and it is pleasing that some 
of our newer digital titles have grown strongly. There
are some signs that technology markets are finally
beginning to pick up again, particularly in the US, which
should prove beneficial to a company with a strong
technology element such as The Future Network.
Although it is very early days, we are pleased 
with the recent launch in the US of Mobile PC, our 
first significant launch in the US for two years. 
Entertainment
The Future Network’ s UK entertainment portfolio
comprises a number of separate special-interest
magazines, ranging from music-making to film 
and mountain-biking, from stitching to technology and
modified cars. T ogether with our recently acquired
guitar titles in the US, they provide us with a diversified
magazine portfolio. In 2003 our entertainment titles
performed strongly overall and we intend to expand
further in these areas, building on our long-term
success in these special-interest areas of the market.
The Future Network has been sector leader in guitar
magazines for almost a decade in the UK. We have
achieved growth once more this year , and this durable
success in a familiar special-interest area encouraged
us to enter the US guitar market in 2003. In two
separate deals last autumn, we bought the number
one and number three best-selling magazines for 
a combined £11.5m, to become worldwide leaders of
an attractive sector . 
UK magazine distribution
The UK’ s largest magazine distributor , Marketforce,
will be distributing our magazines with effect from 
May 2004. We are pleased with this appointment 
and believe that having the benefit of their scale and
experience will help our UK business.
Corporate strategy
The Board seeks to enhance shareholder value 
by maintaining our pace of growth, which has seen
substantial growth in Group value since 2001. 
T o this end, we have a clear strategy:
• T o exploit the significant growth opportunities in 
our core area of expertise – special-interest
consumer magazines
• T o focus new investment on the UK and 
US businesses
• Further to increase the diversity of our magazine
portfolio, thereby reducing our dependence on any
single sector
• T o use the Group’ s strong balance sheet and 
cash generative qualities to pursue acquisitions
• T o build on our established track record of
launching new titles.
We have been focused in 2003 on seeking to improve
the business in every area. We have continued to 
make significant progress, which has been beneficial
to shareholders and to Future people alike. We look
forward with confidence. 
Greg Ingham
Chief Executive
10 March 2004
Chief Executive’ s 
review continued
“MP3, Divx, home cinéma, l’informatique bouge 
très vite. Un monde passionnant, toujours nouveau,
toujours surprenant. J’ai la chance de pratiquer 
un métier qui me permet de partager mes
découvertes et ma passion.”
Benoît Henri, Features Editor , PC Achat,
Future France. 9 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2003
Launches and
acquisitions in 2003
Magazines launched during 2003
Country Title
UK Digital Camera Shopper
UK Digital Focus Guides
UK Digital Home
UK Digital Photography T echniques
UK Laptop Magazine
UK Masterclass series
UK Windows XP Answers
UK Your Family Tree
UK Bang
UK What Guitar
France Digital Photo Magazine
France Kid Paddle
Italy Videogiochi
Italy Digital Camera Magazine
Italy Linux Pro
Magazines acquired during 2003
Country Title
UK PSW
UK Xbox World
US Guitar One
US Guitar World
France DVD Magazine
France Joypad
France Joystick
France PlayStation 2,
Le Magazine Officiel
