 4 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2003
“I am delighted to report on a successful year with
double-digit percentage growth in turnover, adjusted
operating profits and adjusted earnings per share.”
Roger Parry, Chairman
Summary 
I am delighted to report on a successful year with
double-digit percentage growth in turnover, adjusted
operating profits and adjusted earnings per share. 
The Future Network has grown by both launch and
acquisition; and the Company is announcing its 
first dividend.
The strength of The Future Network is the focused
effort and dedication of our staff. Their enthusiasm
and talent continues to underpin the success 
and popularity of our magazines. We now have 
more than one thousand people, producing 
98 monthly magazines.
Financial results for 2003 compared with 2002
Group turnover rose by 11% to £182.7m; adjusted
operating profit rose by 24% to £22.5m; and adjusted
earnings per share rose 11% to 4.9 pence per share. 
The Future Network has again been strongly 
cash generative and ended the year with net cash 
of £13.4m. This is despite spending £18.4m 
on acquisition activity – the benefit of which starts 
to become more evident in 2004.
Against this strong financial background the Board
recommends a first dividend, amounting to 1.25
pence per share for the full year 2003. It is also the
current intention of the Board to recommend a final-
only dividend of 1.25 pence per share for the
nine months to 30 September 2004, in the absence
of exceptional circumstances and following our
proposed change of year end which I explain later.
Business growth
Over the last two years, we have significantly
expanded our business. Since the beginning of 2002,
we have launched 28 monthly magazines, acquired 
a further eight, and closed or sold a total of 14. This
brings our portfolio of monthly special-interest
consumer magazines to a total of 98 at the end of
2003. From this broader base of games, computing
and entertainment titles, we have been able to drive
profitability further.
It is pleasing that progress has been made in each of
The Future Network’ s four countries, most notably in
the US in 2003.
In seeking to develop the business further , the Board
has spent time reviewing strategic priorities and the
Chief Executive’ s Review on page 8 summarises our
growth strategy. 
Chairman’ s statement
The Future Network has grown
by both launch and acquisition;
and the Company is announcing
its first dividend. 5 The Future Network plc Annual Report 2003
Board and corporate governance
On 12 March 2003 John Mellon and Lisa Gordon
joined the Board as independent non-executive
Directors, bringing the number of independent 
non-executive Directors to five. John has had a
successful business career in magazine publishing,
including as Chairman of IPC Magazines. 
Lisa was the Corporate Development Director 
of Chrysalis Group for eight years.
With effect from 16 September 2003, Colin Morrison,
who was Chief Operating Officer , resigned as a Director
of the Company and subsequently left the Group 
on 31 December 2003. Colin joined the Company in
January 2001 as Chief Operating Officer and also 
filled the position of UK Managing Director from July
2001. The role of Chief Operating Officer has now
ceased. The Board is grateful to Colin and wishes him
the very best for his next challenge.
We continue to note corporate governance
developments. An important aspect of this is the
composition of the Board and I believe that The Future
Network has a good balance between executive 
and non-executive Directors, and that our Board is
effective. I welcome observations from shareholders
on any aspect of governance.
Annual General Meeting 2004
Our 2004 Annual General Meeting will be held on
Thursday 13 May in Bath and the business for 
that meeting will include 11 resolutions. I should like
to highlight two significant new proposals. 
Having paved the way last year to enable the 
payment of dividends, and with the strong financial
performance for 2003 summarised opposite, the 
Board has recommended a first dividend, amounting 
to 1.25 pence per share for the full year 2003. The
payment of this dividend is subject to shareholder
approval at the Annual General Meeting. 
The Board also proposes to change the financial 
year end of the Group from 31 December to 
30 September . The October to December period
generates a significant proportion of revenues 
and profits and makes forecasting performance 
during the year a challenge. Changing the year end 
will facilitate the management of the business 
and build in more certainty in predicting outcomes. 
It is pleasing that
progress has been made
in each of The Future
Network’ s four countries
in 2003.
It is also notable that within this busiest trading
quarter the business prepares detailed operating
budgets for the ensuing financial year; reviews
staff salaries; and monitors closely the financial
implications of any deviation from budget arising in 
the last quarter of the financial year . 
By changing the financial year end to 30 September ,
we believe that we will achieve a more balanced and
effective management of the business internally,
whilst also providing a better framework for managing
the business as a public company.
The Board therefore proposes to shorten the current
financial reporting period by three months, so that 
the Company’ s next audited results would be for the
nine months to 30 September 2004.
The proposed change of financial year end is not a
matter which requires the approval of shareholders.
However , consistent with our views on aspiring to best
practice in corporate governance, we have decided 
to invite shareholders to vote in favour of this change
at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Current trading and prospects
Current trading for January 2004 has been in line 
with internal expectations and we regard our trading
prospects positively.
The Future Network is an international business which
has traded well in 2003. It is growing, and is in a 
strong position in the field of special-interest consumer
magazine publishers. We have valuable consumer
properties managed by a talented and motivated team.
I am optimistic that our shareholders’ confidence 
in The Future Network will continue to prove justified in
the years to come.
Roger Parry
Chairman
10 March 2004
