 Future plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
Future has become a leader among publishers 
in driving digital transformation. It is now 
well positioned for rapid expansion of its 
online and mobile businesses, which will 
be the drivers of the company’ s profi t growth.
The UK operation, representing 73% of revenues, was resilient 
in challenging market conditions, delivering revenues of £103.4m 
– down just 2% from 2010, and EBITAE of £12.5m – down 3%. This 
is a good result in a period when most publishers saw print sales 
decline. Future also saw sales of its magazines in retail outlets fall, 
but this was largely offset by strong growth in UK digital revenues, 
which were 36% up year-on-year. 
In contrast, US revenues were down 13% at $62.4m (2010: $72.0m) 
and the operation delivered an EBITAE loss of $5.6m. Newsstand 
print sales fell 32% and print advertising fell 21%. These were 
partially offset by growth in digital revenues – up 25%, and our 
customer publishing operation, Future Plus, saw growth of 30%.
Reorganisation
We have carried out reorganisations and restructuring in both 
the UK and US. The departures of several senior executives have 
contributed to cost savings, as have other headcount reductions. 
The changes in the UK enabled us to reduce resources dedicated 
to print and create headroom to bring in digital expertise. Overall 
we are reducing operating costs across the Group by an estimated 
annualised £4.5m by the end of FY12. 
We have also introduced a new hub and spoke production model 
which means more agility and efﬁ ciency in the way we produce 
content. This model enables us to stretch resources across titles 
more efﬁ ciently and manage an integrated UK-US production 
process. This is key to more cost-efﬁ cient content management 
and ﬂ exible use of outsourced production. 
We are migrating the US business to a predominantly digital model 
and have taken steps to de-risk remaining print properties. We will 
improve the margins of residual print titles by merging production 
with the appropriate teams in the UK. 
A year of fast progress towards a digital world 
Future operates market-leading websites in the Games, 
Technology, Cycling and Music sectors, and trafﬁ c has grown 
signiﬁ cantly over the past year: we are now generating over 
34 million unique visits each month. Digital revenues grew 
by 31% in the period.
TechRadar.com – the UK’s leading consumer technology news 
and reviews website – has shown particularly impressive growth, 
nearly doubling revenues and generating a margin close to 50%. 
We have launched or upgraded more than 25 websites in the year, 
and recently launched new e-commerce platforms in the Crafts 
sector: www.themakingspot.com and www.weheartcraft.co.uk.
Overview
Future delivered disappointing results for the past year, in line with 
previous announcements. While the UK business showed resilience 
in challenging conditions, the US operations tipped back into loss, 
pulling down the Group’s overall ﬁ nal results. 
However, over the same period, Future has become a leader among 
publishers in driving digital transformation. It is now well positioned 
for rapid expansion of its online and mobile businesses, which will 
be the drivers of the company’s proﬁ t growth. 
We have taken swift action to reorganise the company, merging 
our UK and US operations, and creating a single global product line. 
These changes enable us to operate more efﬁ ciently and will get 
our US business back to proﬁ tability by FY13. 
These actions also mean that we can accelerate our transition to 
a digital business model. Instead of seeing our business constrained 
by geography and deﬁ ned by separately focused UK and US 
operations, we will now sell our entire range of high-quality 
content into the borderless digital markets opening up worldwide. 
Our aim is to see the US operation transformed from loss-maker, 
and the US market become one of the key drivers of proﬁ t growth 
from Future’s current product line.
The key to the change is that new digital channels, such as the 
Apple iPad, are rapidly opening up new routes to international 
markets in which our niche products can quickly build a loyal 
following. Future’s success on the Apple Newsstand − with more 
than six million downloads of our apps in the month of launch 
alone − has demonstrated our ability to develop and deliver digital 
products at high speed. It also underlines the global appeal of our 
content, ranging from Cycling, Games and Technology to Music, 
Movies and Digital Design. 
Meanwhile, digital advertising revenues from websites and 
mobile devices are showing strong and sustainable growth.
A new Future business is taking shape and we have the content, 
products and skills to make it a success.
Results
The results for 2011 show a decline in full year revenue of 6% 
and a reduction in Group EBITAE from £10.1m to £6.6m. Exceptional 
costs of £4.8m have been incurred, mainly as a result of the 
restructuring actions taken in the period, predominantly in the 
UK. Further exceptional costs will be incurred in respect of 
central costs and the US business in the current ﬁ nancial year.
Mark Wood, Chief Executive Future plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The common theme among all our audiences is that they are highly 
attractive to advertisers. 
As well as selling advertising around our content, we are also 
increasingly able to develop valuable commercial partnerships with 
retailers, generating transaction royalties or producing interactive 
advertising for our partners. Meanwhile, the in-house skills which 
have powered our digital growth are now driving our customer 
publishing business, Future Plus. Its UK and US operations are 
increasingly based around providing pioneering multi-platform content, 
products and services. Customers range from Best Buy and Coats 
& Clark in the US to Tesco, O
2
, Canon and Page & Moy in the UK.
Current trading outlook
Given the recessionary trends in the broader economy and the 
pace of change in the publishing industry we remain cautious 
about overall prospects for print and digital content businesses. 
But we believe Future is well positioned to seize opportunities 
as they emerge, above all in the fast-changing digital markets.
The Board has supported steps taken by management to reduce 
headcount and overall cost levels in the UK, and subsequently 
in the US as well. The result will be an integrated, more efﬁ cient 
and more focused business. 
Trading in the ﬁ rst two months of F Y12 has been in line with our 
expectations.
Summary
The new management team has taken fast and decisive action 
to restructure the business, manage costs down and accelerate 
transition into digital growth areas.
::  UK + US – we are creating a uniﬁ ed business, delivering 
signiﬁ cant efﬁ ciencies and revenue opportunities.
::  Digital − we are creating a uniﬁ ed digital product line to leverage 
global audiences and exposure to online advertising.
::  Print – we are managing circulation declines where they occur 
proactively, efﬁ ciently and effectively.
::  Content – in our chosen markets we are leveraging our content 
to generate new and incremental revenue streams, including 
through our customer publishing operation, Future Plus.
Future has a dynamic culture which is enabling us to reinvent the 
company at speed. 
We have assembled a strong management team on both sides of the 
Atlantic. We are eager to exploit new technologies and apply Future’s 
creativity, design ﬂ air, intellectual property and commercial skills to 
growing entirely new digital opportunities. 
Importantly, we have a company which is full of talent and ambition to 
succeed. Despite a challenging year, our people have the energy, focus 
and commitment to help us build a bigger multi-platform business and 
make Future a global leader in the digital world. As the Chairman has 
said, we look forward to the year ahead with growing conﬁ dence.
I am conﬁ dent we have the skills, the content and the determination 
to make Future a global leader in the digital content world.
In the past year, Future has launched over 100 digital titles on the iPad 
and other tablets. T3, our mainstream gadget magazine, is one of 
the UK’s most successful iPad magazines, selling over 18,000 digital 
editions each month. And Future has developed its own app creation 
software, FutureFolio, which we are already licensing to other publishers.
We have developed our own in-house video production capability, 
making short-form video a core part of our Technology, Games, 
Cycling and Movie products. Video generates higher advertising rates 
and has become an essential component of interactive tablet editions. 
We have continued to demonstrate efﬁ cient management of our print 
portfolio, selling or closing a number of titles in the audio-visual 
and automotive areas, and launching three new magazines in the 
UK. One of them, Practical Photoshop, immediately became market 
leader in its sector. 
Another, Mollie Makes – a new craft and lifestyle magazine for 
women aged 18–35 – was one of Future’s most successful launches 
ever, with early editions sold out and trading on eBay at six times 
the cover price. Mollie Makes was designed and pre-launched 
via blogging on relevant specialist websites and has set a template 
for ways we can use blogs and social media – including Facebook 
– to plan and pre-publicise new digital and print products. 
Building our business around high-value audiences
The spread of broadband connections and proliferation of tablet 
devices are opening up entirely new digital markets for fast-moving 
content producers. For Future, this is a golden opportunity. Niche 
content businesses can ﬂ ourish in this environment. Suddenly we 
can deliver content to enthusiasts in places we could never reach 
when restricted by the need to print, ship and deliver physical 
magazines. Those audiences may be cyclists in the US, Linux 
programmers in Korea or rock music fans in Japan. 
Future’s previous silo structure meant we never realised the full 
potential of our high-value digital content outside the UK market. 
Yet we have clear evidence of how great that potential can be. Nearly 
a third of TechRadar’s monthly seven million unique visitors are 
already in the US. We now plan to roll out a US-customised version 
of TechRadar as a high priority so that we can monetise that interest.
Following that, we have immediate plans to expand our Games and 
Cycling digital businesses in the US and then look at Photography, 
Movies, Music and Digital Design. Our new business model enables 
us to utilise our high-quality US commercial and editorial teams 
to manage a succession of product roll-outs in the coming months. 
Apple Newsstand statistics reveal Total Film, Fast Car, T3 and many 
of our Games and Music titles all have large global audiences. Some 
of our specialist B2B products, such as those aimed at the animation 
and web design industries, have far bigger audiences in the US 
and Asia than in the UK. Overall, 75% of our sales through Apple 
Newsstand have come from outside the UK. These ﬁ gures point 
the way for our business growth.
We are an information and entertainment source in fast-growing 
markets. Future’s products typically reach afﬂ uent enthusiasts who 
become loyal members of the communities around our magazines or 
digital offerings. We also provide valuable news and trusted advice to 
people seeking information to guide decision-making, whether that 
is about which movie to go and see or what new smartphone to buy.
Future apps 
downloaded worldwide
in the ﬁ rst month of the Apple Newsstand
6m
sales from outside the UK
through the Apple Newsstand
75% Future plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Building 
 a borderless 
 business
Chief Executive’s review continued
Future reaches valuable audiences and keeps them engaged 
with high-quality expert content packaged with some of the 
best design skills in the media business. A world-class digital 
team enables Future to lead the way in delivering products 
quickly and efﬁ ciently to new platforms like the Apple 
Newsstand for iPads and iPhones. 
Future is a leading digital and print publisher in Cycling, 
Video Games, Technology, Music, Crafts, Cars and a wide 
range of specialist professional niches such as web design, 
animation, software development and digital music-making. 
Future is the number one UK magazine exporter and the 
number one UK magazine licensor – with brands licensed 
to 89 countries across the world. 
Future sells 2.9 million magazines 
each month. Our websites engage over 
34 million unique users every month, 
and our brands have over 1.3 million 
Facebook fans. Future plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
People who buy
What unites the loyal enthusiasts and the mainstream grazers 
is that both are more likely than average to make purchases or 
to inﬂ uence others who do. Visitors to TechRadar.com buy phones, 
cameras, laptops. Our cycling readers regularly upgrade their 
kit. And that goes for all our verticals, whether they cover games, 
guitars, auto tuning, genealogy, craft, stitching or knitting, a sector 
in which we have also launched two e-commerce platforms to 
sell patterns and also sell kit to enthusiasts. 
B2B professionals
We produce content for a number of highly specialist business 
sectors with brands like Linux Format and MacLife or design titles 
like .net and Computer Arts – the world’s best-selling magazine for 
digital artists and designers – and 3D World, the world’s most popular 
brand for professionals in the fast-growing animation industry.
The global opportunity
Whether consumer or business, our audiences are growing fast, 
thanks to the impact of new technologies like smartphones and 
tablet devices. Within a month of the launch of the Apple Newsstand 
magazine platform for iPad and iPhone in October 2011 more than 
six million Future magazine apps had been downloaded across 
60 brands and 75% of sales from this channel are coming from 
overseas. The US makes up almost 40% of sales while countries 
as diverse as France, Germany, China and Korea are buying our 
English-language product via tablets. As tablet availability rapidly 
expands, entirely new channels to global markets are opening up 
for our digital content – delivered in a truly borderless marketplace.
Our Audiences
Future produces high-quality content which engages, 
entertains and informs high-value audiences. And we 
do it on every platform – magazines, online, tablets 
and smartphones. 
Across our entire portfolio – Technology, Games, Music, 
Creative, Craft, Auto and Sport sectors – our readers 
are typically people who advertisers and retailers are 
keen to reach.
Loyal communities of enthusiasts
From Metal Hammer to Mollie Makes, our brands are beacons for 
consumers who have a hobby or passion and we reach them in print, 
online and on the move. Our products are hubs for the like-minded 
to share their passions; our editorial teams are themselves all experts 
in their ﬁ elds, sometimes gurus. They drive a loyalty which is the 
envy of many other content providers. That expertise may be in 
computer design, cycling, knitting or electronic music – in the entire 
portfolio we produce content for magazines, websites, tablets and 
smartphones which the target audience just cannot do without. 
And, thanks to the penetration of tablets and broadband, we are 
now reaching more of those audiences in different parts of the 
world. We are also developing more ways to offer them useful 
content and services and, simultaneously, expand the number 
of revenue streams we can develop.
Mainstream grazers
Alongside the loyalists, many of our brands deliver a vital service 
for more mainstream consumers, who are looking for a trusted 
source of information and advice. From the product reviews of 
the latest cameras, laptops and tablet devices on TechRadar.com, 
to movie reviews on the Total Film mobile site. Future plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Digital Acceleration
Technological development is redeﬁ ning how 
consumers want to engage with our brands. 
The multiplicity of content platforms allows us 
to provide our current audiences with a richer and 
deeper experience of our brands, as well as reaching 
new international audiences for our niche content.
::  Future is now recognised as a leader in the ﬁ eld of digital 
publishing and was named Consumer Publisher of the Year 
at the annual Association of Online Publishers Awards in 
the UK in 2011 – the ﬁ rst magazine publisher to win the award.
::  Our web and mobile sites deliver over 160 million page 
impressions every month to over 34 million unique users 
around the world. 
::  This year we have launched or upgraded more than 25 websites.
::  We deliver more than 100 digital editions on the rapidly growing 
iPad platform. T3, our lifestyle and gadget title, has been 
consistently the most popular lifestyle magazine on the iPad 
in the UK throughout 2011. We deliver simple magazine replicas 
and interactive digital editions for brands like T3 and Guitarist. 
We have also produced one-off premium iPad apps like 
Alice Cooper’s Welcome 2 My Nightmare CD/fan magazine 
and a repackaged video tutorial app for Photoshop users.
::  Future is harnessing the power of social media channels both 
as hubs for our communities and to market our products to 
new audiences. Across our portfolio, our Facebook pages now 
generate over 2.7 million monthly page impressions – with 
Metal Hammer alone clocking up over 285,000 friends globally. 
::  We utilise social networks, blogs and websites to develop both 
print and digital products. This is a revolutionary step in print 
launch management. For example, community editors on 
Mollie Makes, a lifestyle and craft title for women aged 18–35, 
developed the concept for the magazine via websites, blogs 
and Facebook. As a result Mollie Makes was one of our most 
successful launches ever. N-Photo, a magazine for Nikon camera 
users, evolved in the same way and had 40,000 Facebook 
followers before the ﬁ rst edition even hit the newsstands. 
::  Video is now integral to our products online and on tablets. 
We produce video channels for our Technology, Games, Cycling 
and Movie brands. Our video content is now generating almost 
4.2 million minutes of viewing every month.
::  E-commerce is an increasingly important revenue opportunity. 
Our afﬁ liate revenues increased by 70% in the past year and 
we launched two new e-commerce platforms in the craft sector: 
www.weheartcraft.co.uk and www.themakingspot.com. Future plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Partnership
Future works with a wide range of leading international 
partners. It has a unique position in the Video Games 
sector, is a leading customer publisher and licenses 
its content to 69 media businesses internationally.
::  Future has always had strong publishing partnerships, above 
all in the Games market, where we are ofﬁ cial partners to 
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo in print, online and on console. 
We have also developed a major customer publishing business 
in the UK and US – Future Plus.
  This year Future extended our long and successful relationship 
with Sony with the introduction of Access TV – a new weekly 
HD video show available on console; and with a new website, 
ofﬁ cialplaystationmagazine.co.uk.
::  Our Future Plus customer publishing business produces 
magazines, websites and tablet apps for a number of major 
US and UK clients, including Best Buy, Coats & Clark, Page 
& Moy, Canon, ODEON, O
2
 and Tesco. Increasingly, Future 
is seen as a provider of multi-platform solutions, able to 
deliver content on paper, on tablet, online and on smartphones.
::  Future’s International Licensing and Syndication business 
is built on strong international partnerships. Future is the 
UK’s leading licensor, and we have agreements in place for 
reproduction of Future content with 69 media businesses, 
selling licensed editions in 89 markets. T3 alone has 21 
international print editions. Future this year began producing 
German-language news for Stern.de, a leading German website 
– and will expand its German production in the year ahead.
Operating review
