 Future plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Future has delivered disappointing results in the past ﬁ nancial year, 
in line with previous announcements. As a result, the Board took 
decisive action to address the key problems, and to carry out a 
restructuring of the Group. It also appointed a new Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director to eliminate signiﬁ cant cost and to take 
the business in a new direction.
The reorganisation saw the departure of Stevie Spring as Chief 
Executive and John Bowman as Group Finance Director, both of 
whom had made a valuable contribution to the refocusing and 
stabilisation of the business in recent years. They leave with 
our thanks.
The Board recognised the strong performance of Future’s 
UK operation and in particular the digital innovation there, 
which has built on both the strength of its market positions 
and quality of its content to deliver new products and generate 
impressive digital revenue growth. We therefore asked the 
UK CEO, Mark Wood, and his Finance Director, Graham Harding, 
to step up to lead the business. 
This change enabled us to eliminate an expensive layer of central 
corporate cost. The new management, supported by the Board, 
is subsequently taking out further costs in the US as it integrates 
a previously separate, sub-scale subsidiary into a business which 
will be focused on selling the full range of its content into the US 
and other major world markets.
Given their experience and success in the UK operation, we have 
great conﬁ dence in the new leadership and their ability to manage 
the transition to new business models at speed and within a tightly 
managed cost base. 
We expect to see the Group return to proﬁ t growth in the year ahead.
Financial performance
2011 results show Group revenue of £141.7m (2010: £151.5m) and 
EBITAE of £6.6m (2010: £10.1m). This disappointing performance 
was caused mainly by sharply reduced print copy and advertising 
sales in the US. Exceptional items in the year totalled £4.8m 
(2010: nil) and relate to restructuring costs, property provisions 
and other one-off costs, reﬂ ecting lower headcount. The ongoing 
restructuring will lead to further exceptional cash costs estimated 
at £1.9m in the current year.
The Group has taken a non-cash impairment charge of £17.1m 
(2010: nil) against the carrying value of the intangible assets 
relating to the Group’s US subsidiary to reﬂ ect more accurately 
the value of that business.
After this charge, amortisation of intangibles of £1.2m (2010: £2.7m) 
and net ﬁ nancing costs of £1.5m (2010: £1.8m), the Group recorded 
a pre-tax loss of £18.0m (2010: pre-tax proﬁ t of £5.6m).
Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) were a loss of 5.9p (2010: earnings 
of 1.7p) and adjusted EPS were 0.7p (2010: 2.4p).
Financing & Dividend
We are pleased to have secured the continuing support of our 
banks with the extension of our loan facility until November 2013. 
Borrowings have increased from £7.4m to £11.8m this year and 
will increase further in the ﬁ rst half of 2012 as we ﬁ nalise the 
reorganisation. Thereafter we should be cash generative again.
In this context, the Board announced a dividend holiday until 
Group borrowings have reverted to less than two times Bank 
EBITDA, which we anticipate happening at the beginning of the 
2013 ﬁ nancial year. 
The interim dividend of 0.5p (2010: 0.5p), which was paid on 3 October 
2011, was therefore the only dividend payment relating to the year. 
Board
I am delighted to have been appointed Chairman of Future in August. 
During the past year, the Board has been signiﬁ cantly refreshed 
with the arrival of Mark Whiteling in November 2010, who chairs the 
Audit Committee, and Manjit Wolstenholme in February 2011, who is 
our Senior Independent Director. Seb Bishop, who has been a Board 
member since 2007, provides a valuable digital and entrepreneurial 
perspective to the business. Mark Wood and Graham Harding 
complete the current Board membership.
I would like to thank the previous Chairman, Roger Parry, for more 
than a decade of service to Future, during which he steered the 
company through some turbulent and difﬁ cult periods. I would also 
like to thank Patrick Taylor and Michael Penington, who retired from 
the Board in February, for their invaluable contributions as Directors 
of the company. 
Summary
The current Board is satisﬁ ed that it has taken appropriate steps 
to put Future in a better position to continue to achieve exciting 
growth in digital markets and that it has put a management team 
in place which is capable of reversing the company’s recent decline 
and transforming its growth prospects. We look forward to the 
year ahead with growing conﬁ dence and anticipation following 
a very difﬁ cult period.
Chairman’s statement
Future will be run as an integrated business,
no longer as separate UK and US operations. 
This change recognises that digital markets 
are global in nature.
Peter Allen, Chairman
