 Future has achieved further significant progress in the transition 
to a diversified digital business and delivered revenue growth, 
despite challenging trading conditions over much of the year. 
Digital revenues rose 38% − the highest rate of growth in recent 
years − and we passed a significant inflection point, with more 
than half of all advertising revenues (59% across the Group) now 
digital. This demonstrates how far the business has developed in 
its digital transformation.
Significant progress
Our strategy
The past 12 months have 
seen Future make good 
progress against its strategy 
as we maintain momentum 
towards digital transition and 
diversified revenues.
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Chief 
Executive’s 
review
05 Future plc
Overview
Overall, Digital and Diversified revenues − 
including revenues from digital circulation, 
digital advertising, digital commerce, software 
business FutureFolio, custom publishing 
business Future Plus and events − made up 
32% of the business.
As a result of disposals and restructuring we 
have strengthened the balance sheet, net 
debt has been halved to £6.9m (leverage 0.99 
times) and a new four year £25m maturing 
credit facility agreed. Second half performance 
was significantly better than the first half 
and, after an encouraging fourth quarter, we 
entered the 2013-14 financial year with forward 
advertising bookings pacing ahead of last year. 
For the year as a whole, revenues grew by 3% 
and profit before tax came in at £1.9m against 
a loss in the prior year of £2.7m, with growth 
in digital revenues more than offsetting print 
declines. A cyclical decline in the Games market 
was a significant drag on the business in the 
first three quarters. But by the fourth quarter 
Games had substantially recovered and trading 
was stronger in Q4 across all other sectors. 
During the second half a number of key 
elements of the transition programme were 
delivered: the US was operating profitably and 
restructuring activity in the UK was completed 
which will deliver margin benefits in 2014.  
Digital growth across all key brands 
We increased our digital reach by 14% to  
58 million unique users (UUs) a month. Future 
now has 14 websites that each attract more than 
one million UUs a month. We achieved greater 
Driving Future’s transformation into a 
global, digitally-led content business 01.
Innovating digitally to increase audience 
engagement and diversify monetisation 03.
Managing our print assets for 
cash generation 04.
Constantly controlling costs & targeting 
investment to manage margin 05.
Focussing on building brands across 
channels – TechRadar is our no.1 priority 02. 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
audience engagement across the portfolio, with 
page views rising 19% to 328 million, increased 
dwell times and a 32% increase in average 
revenue per user across all sites.
We saw sustained digital growth across all 
key sectors of the portfolio – Technology, 
Games, Photography, Sport, Crafts, Music 
and Digital Creative.
TechRadar, the news and reviews site which 
is Future’s top brand, reached 20 million 
UUs a month and continued to grow a global 
audience. TechRadar US more than doubled 
its audience to 8.3 million UUs and was one 
of the fastest growing US technology sites.  
In the UK we launched TechRadar Pro, 
focussed on the business technology sector, 
and saw rapid growth in visitor traffic and 
advertiser interest. 
TechRadar is now unchallenged as the  
UK’s number one technology website and is 
increasingly competing with CNet in global 
markets. Future’s CyclingNews and BikeRadar 
are global leaders in their sectors, while CVG, 
PC Gamer and GamesRadar all had market- 
leading positions in the UK and US. Creative 
Bloq took the lead in the high-value UK Digital 
Design space within a year of launch and 
generated traffic of more than 2.2 million  
UUs a month. 
Revenues from Future’s digital editions on 
tablets such as the iPad increased by 44% on 
the prior year and Mac|Life, our US title, saw 
subscriptions increase to 80,000. We now 
have more than 340,000 digital subscriptions 
worldwide and renewal rates have been 
running at close to 70%.
Innovation and diversified revenues 
Content Marketing was an area of substantial 
digital growth and is developing into a 
material new business area. Future has 
developed expertise in managing consumer 
engagement and marketing campaigns for 
major brands in both the US and the UK. 
Revenues from new business in this area 
doubled and are now generating more than 
15% of total advertising revenues.  
Future US created the blueprint, winning 
content production, audience engagement 
and experiential marketing campaigns for 
major partners including Hyundai, Bethesda 
and DTS. The UK built on that experience 
and secured content marketing campaigns 
for brands including Samsung, Carphone 
Warehouse, Canon, Microsoft and Tesco.
In the fast-growing Photography market, Future 
is the market-leading publisher in print and 
digital formats and our interactive Photography 
Week tops the sector on Apple’s Newsstand. 
We also secured the licence to stage The 
Photography Show, set to be Europe’s biggest 
annual event of its kind, at the Birmingham 
NEC. The Photography Show will debut in 
March 2014. Our Events division, launched 
in 2012, also launched successful B2B 
conferences and shows in Photography, 
Digital Creative and Music in the last year. 
This demonstrates the success of our model 
of creating the best brands and content in a 
sector and then leveraging this across other 
engagement vehicles.
In other areas, FutureFolio, our tablet edition 
software, extended its customer list. New 
clients include the Daily Telegraph and 
publishing group Redan, which has chosen 
FutureFolio to publish a highly interactive 
version of the magazine based on the hugely 
popular children’s character Peppa Pig. In 
addition, we increased revenues from real-time 
programmatic data trading, which enables us 
to monetise unsold advertising inventory. 
International growth 
More than 40% of the Group’s revenues  
were generated outside the UK in the last 
year. In the US, revenues increased by 6% 
and in Australia by 23%, boosted by the 
acquisition of two technology brands. These 
have made Future a leader in the technology 
sector and will provide leverage to build 
TechRadar Australia. 
We continue to see Future’s biggest 
opportunities internationally in the US and 
have an efficient model for repurposing  
UK-produced content for the American 
market. As well as significant growth in the US 
Technology and Games sectors, we see further 
potential in Photography, Crafts and Cycling.
In Europe, we launched a French-language 
version of MusicRadar and began producing 
Sport and Technology content for print and 
digital products in German and Italian. 
Agile management of our  
magazine portfolio 
We manage our print business for cash 
generation and have continued to innovate 
in creating new revenue streams. We launch 
new titles into areas where we identify 
opportunity for revenue and profit growth. 
Recent new launches have included 
Love Patchwork & Quilting and Science 
Uncovered, a mainstream science title  
aimed at the 16-25 demographic. 
We have significantly mitigated the impact 
of declines in mainstream title sales by 
substantially expanding production of high-
value specials and bookazines. We print these 
in the UK, US and China and are targeting 
markets in the US, Asia, UK and Europe. 
Summary & outlook
We have halved our debt during the year as 
a result of selling our portfolio of Rock titles, 
closing loss-making titles and successfully 
securing sub-letting deals in the US and UK, 
reducing our property liabilities by £1.4m. 
We maintain a rigorous focus on operating 
margins. We have reshaped the business 
to support our increasingly digital revenues, 
reducing headcount in the UK to its lowest  
level for more than 10 years.
Future has developed an entrepreneurial and 
innovative culture and is well positioned to 
seize opportunities as digital markets evolve. 
Future won all three top UK awards for Digital 
Publisher of the Year in 2013, the first company 
ever to take every top industry honour. This 
is evidence that the Company is seen as 
undisputed digital leader by the rest of the UK 
media industry.
We will put that innovative flair to work as we 
continue to build Future’s digital business at 
speed in the year ahead. 
Looking forward, we see the encouraging Q4 
trends continuing with forward advertising 
bookings up year-on-year, and revenue 
momentum across all sectors.
As we began the 2013-14 financial period, 
trading was in line with our expectations across 
all parts of the business. 
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
 
PC Gamer is the world’s 
most popular PC  
gaming website
 
BikeRadar is the world’s 
most popular cycling 
reviews website
 
MusicRadar is the world’s 
most popular website  
for musicians
No.1 No.1 No.1
