 The strategy agreed by the Board 
over the past two years to diversify 
revenues and reduce dependence 
on print is clearly delivering the 
anticipated results. Digital and 
Diversified revenues − including 
revenues from digital circulation, 
digital advertising, digital commerce, 
FutureFolio, Future Plus and events 
− are now one third of the business 
and we are on a trajectory to maintain 
this momentum.
It has been particularly encouraging to 
see an effective focus on increasing 
monetisation of our digital traffic and 
to follow the development of our digital 
agency activity in the US and the UK 
as a substantial new business.
We have placed great emphasis on 
managing our operating margins, and 
continue to re-engineer our cost base 
as part of that focus. We are pleased 
with progress in this area and the 
efforts undertaken to reduce costs in 
the UK and streamline the business 
organisation by removing some layers 
of management.
The improvement in performance 
and the encouraging trends as we 
entered the 2013-14 financial year 
were seen by the Board as justifying 
a resumption of dividend payments, 
which were suspended in 2011. We 
will therefore pay a dividend of 0.2p 
per share for all shareholders on the 
register as at 14 February 2014. This 
decision reflects confidence in the 
business and the prospects for the 
period ahead.
We are delighted to welcome Zillah 
Byng-Maddick as Chief Financial 
Officer. She brings with her invaluable 
experience of managing the print-
to-digital transition at Trader Media, 
publisher of Auto Trader. We thank 
her predecessor, Graham Harding, 
for his contribution as CFO and many 
years of distinguished service to 
Future and we wish him well.
Peter Allen 
Chairman
We are pleased with the results, which show the business 
gathering momentum in the second half and ending the 
year with every sector performing well. We believe the 
advances in digital revenues mark an important turning 
point for the business, with advertising revenues now  
two thirds digital.
Gathering momentum
“ The improvement in 
performance and the 
encouraging trends as we 
entered the 2013-14 financial 
year were seen by the Board 
as justifying a resumption of 
dividend payments.”
Peter Allen
Chairman
Chairman’s 
statement
03 Future plc To reach and grow high-value global audiences with 
world-class content produced by talented experts; 
and to be tireless innovators in the way we engage 
with those consumers and generate value for Future 
and our commercial partners.
The Future Mission 
04 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
