 6 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s review
The security businesses have performed well in the year with healthy
organic growth of 9% and PBTA before exceptional items up 15% at
£68m. Our Distribution joint venture has also made progress in the year,
with our EBITA contribution increasing by 16.4% to £7.1m.
During my ﬁrst year as Chief Executive we have continued to make
progress towards focusing the organisation on its core security businesses
and have delivered strong performances throughout the majority of the group.
I would like to take this opportunity to review some of the general business issues of the 
last year and opportunities for the future. Details of speciﬁc trading will be covered in 
the regional review sections of this report on pages 12 to 21.
Focus on security
Our goal is to become a global top-three provider of security solutions and 
we are making good progress towards its achievement. In addition to growing 
our core security businesses, we have almost completed the divestment of 
our non-core businesses.
In June, we announced the closure of SafeDoor, the on-line secure shopping
service launched at the end of 2000, having determined that it was not core 
to the group’s future. We also explained that we were undertaking a review 
of Securicor Information Systems (SIS), our systems development and
integration business. 
This review concluded that, in the context of the justice market, there were 
no major customer synergies between SIS and our other justice businesses. 
The outcome was a decision to dispose of the business, enabling the group 
to reduce its level of debt and further sharpen the security focus. We therefore
announced in December that we were in substantive negotiations for the sale
of SIS, the last communications business in the group portfolio. Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7
We are clearly focusing on security where we have good positions in most
markets and expertise across our product range. We have been successful at
winning new business across the board but have faced difﬁcult challenges 
in some markets such as the US and Germany.
Values and business model
In this report we outline our corporate values and the key components of 
our business model. These have been created as the group expands throughout
the world, to provide consistency and quality, to enable the spread of best
practice, to increase focus on our customers and to provide a framework for
measuring performance.
Over the last two years we have created a successful business model which has
been further enhanced by adding the best practices of our acquired businesses.
Through consistent application of this model, we will bring the performance 
of all of our businesses up to the optimum level.
With over 100,000 employees around the world, it is important that everyone
understands our vision and plays their part in helping achieve it. We do this 
by ensuring that our staff have a clear understanding of what is required of
them and by providing them with the appropriate training and development. 
Cash Services
Cash transportation and cash management services are a proven core
competency of our group and now represent 33% of turnover. We have good
market positions in most of the countries in which we operate and are on
target for achieving our organic growth and margin expectations.
The UK cash management business has won three new contracts, ﬁrmly established
itself as an expert in this ﬁeld and is well placed to take advantage of further
outsourcing opportunities in the future.
Other markets such as Hong Kong and Canada are showing signs that outsourcing
is moving up the banking agenda and, now that the introduction of the Euro
has been completed, European banks are evaluating their options for improving
productivity and reducing direct costs.
We are clearly
focusing on
security
Cash Services
Organic growth and margin
targets (%)
Long-term plan margin 10
Actual margin 10+
Long-term plan growth 8
Actual organic growth 9.2 8 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Security
The proportion of our turnover provided by the manned and electronic security
businesses has increased to 60%, due largely to acquisitions made in the
Netherlands, Africa and the US and our increased stake in the Asian business.
Margins in these markets are generally good, with the exception of the US,
where we are implementing signiﬁcant cost reduction programmes and
investing in sales activity to bring the business back to break-even within 
this ﬁnancial year.
Demand for integrated security is growing across our markets and we are
developing partnerships with companies which can add systems expertise 
to our businesses. In some markets, such as South Africa, the integrated model
is well developed and already providing good returns. 
Justice Services
Justice services now represents 7% of turnover. Here, we have experienced
good organic growth driven by an increase in tagging of offenders, additions
to our prison contract in South Wales and the growth of our electronic
monitoring business in the US. We also commenced our ﬁrst justice contract 
in the Netherlands earlier this year. Margins in the justice businesses are on
target across the board.
We expect further growth in electronic tagging as prison overcrowding continues
to be an issue in major economies, resulting in more offenders on home
detention curfew. We also expect to win further contracts for secure training
centres in the UK and youth justice academies in the US.
Development strategy
We believe that we can deliver strong improvements in performance across 
the group through growing our existing security businesses. However, there 
are also excellent opportunities for growth through a well considered
acquisition programme.
Any ﬁrm acquisition plans will depend on a number of factors such as the
availability of funds and meeting our criteria for providing appropriate returns
on investment, but we do have development targets for speciﬁc product areas
to support our global top-three security goal.
Security
Organic growth and margin
targets (%)
Long-term plan margin 5+
Actual margin 3.2
Long-term plan growth 5-8
Actual organic growth 7.2
Justice Services
Organic growth and margin
targets (%)
Long-term plan margin 10+
Actual margin 10+
Long-term plan growth 10-15
Actual organic growth 13.5 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2002 9
Firstly, we plan to make complementary and new geographical acquisitions in
cash services businesses. We will look to build market share in Canada, Germany,
China, and Hong Kong and to enter cash services markets in the Netherlands
and South Africa. We have major strengths in running cash services businesses
as can be seen from our strong organic growth and good margins.
Over 60% of our turnover is now in manned security. We do have electronic
capability in most markets but we need to build on this. We plan to target
monitoring companies in order to build on our current capability.
Additionally, to enhance integrated security and to further differentiate our
service range, we will be looking to acquire security consultancy businesses 
in major markets.
Finally, we will be looking to enter new countries where we can achieve 
our criteria of being number one or a close number two in cash services 
or where we can get a strong market position in manned security in higher
growth developing markets. Our justice services growth will continue to be
predominantly organic.
Summary and outlook
Our security businesses have repeatedly delivered good results. Despite the
downturn in the Americas region, we improved normalised proﬁts by over 
16% and had strong organic growth of 9%. We are also starting to demonstrate
how cash-generative our security businesses can be and are conﬁdent that 
this will continue.
We have delivered on our promises to focus our strategy and we are currently
completing the divestment of our last communications business.
We are driving value through our distribution joint venture, with improved
performance in the second half of 2002, thereby building a solid platform 
for future development.
Overall we remain totally committed to our strategy of becoming a global top-
three provider of security solutions. We have made signiﬁcant progress during
the year and have clear plans for building on that progress in the future.
Nick Buckles
