 8 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chief Executive’s review
When we entered the ﬁnancial year in October 2002, we were moving into 
the next phase of our development to transform the organisation into a focused
security group. We achieved a number of key milestones and faced various
challenges in the year which would shape the future of the business.
Focus on Security Sector
The sale to Deutsche Post of our remaining 50% stake in the Distribution joint venture was completed
in July 2003 at a price of £167m and we were pleased to return nearly half of the proceeds to
shareholders as a special dividend. 
In May, whilst the Distribution transaction was being ﬁnalised, we completed the sale of Securicor
Information Systems to its management team. The completion of these two transactions means that
the group is now purely focused on the security businesses and that in future cashﬂow will be
stronger and more predictable. 
Trading Performance
Trading in the ﬁrst half of the year was satisfactory overall, although some of our markets were
proving to be difﬁcult from an economic point of view. European security markets were generally
facing price pressure but Germany in particular was declining at a faster rate. Asia was under
deﬂationary pressure and also had to contend with the outbreak of the SARS virus, impacting 
on tourism and trade generally. In UK Cash Services, we were faced with a higher than budgeted
wage award, but did secure a two year deal along with an agreement to implement some essential
cost-saving measures across the business.
2002-2003 at a glance
October 2002
Lloyds TSB cash centre
outsourcing contract
commences
November 2002
Plans to outsource UK 
Post Ofﬁce cash handling 
to Securicor withdrawn
December 2002
Merger of Securicor’s
Malaysian business and
Safeguards Corporation
completed
The UK business of
Securicor Wireless sold
February 2003
Complete withdrawal from
US aviation security sector
March 2003
Agreement reached to sell
the remaining 50% of
Distribution joint venture 
to Deutsche Post
April 2003
Securicor Macau merged
with Great Wall – Securicor
becomes majority
shareholder with 51% 
of the merged entity
Acquisition of 70% of 
Inco Holdings, the leading
provider of security 
services in Botswana Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9
May 2003
Lord Sharman succeeds 
Sir Neil Macfarlane 
as Chairman 
Interim results indicate
difﬁcult market conditions
which would affect the
company’s performance 
in the second half of the
ﬁnancial year
Securicor acquires Geldnet,
a leading company in the
Dutch cash services sector
Sale of Securicor
Information Systems to the
existing management team
June 2003
Sale of Securicor Cash
Machine
July 2003
Sale of remaining 50% stake
in Distribution joint venture
to Deutsche Post completed
Share consolidation reduces
number of shares to 531m
Special dividend of 12p per
share paid to shareholders
August 2003
Acquisition of a majority
shareholding in Donar, 
a Chinese ATM service
company
September 2003
Trading statement indicates
that operating results would
be in line with consensus
expectations 
So with those challenges in mind, we advised investors in May that our results against market
expectations would inevitably be impacted in the second half. However, we responded robustly 
to the challenges that presented themselves and achieved a full year result which was in line with 
our underlying performance in the previous year.
Cash Services – A Strong Business Model
Having highlighted some of the market conditions and business issues which were affecting Securicor
and its competitors, the security sector became temporarily unpopular with some investors who
questioned the viability of the various business models in the market. Cash Services in particular 
was criticised and it was suggested that there was no further room for growth in the sector. 
Our experience tells us that this is not the case. Whilst credit cards are popular, cash in circulation
grows in most markets and is the consumer’s favourite method of payment. The traditional cash
transportation market has seen a decline in overall volume, but the long-term opportunities in
ﬁnancial institution and retail outsourcing far outweigh any transportation volume issues. With
many of our markets at different stages of development we can see how this model evolves over
time and how we can play a part in facilitating that change. We have successfully rolled out three
major cash management contracts in the UK and our other cash services markets are seeing moves
towards outsourcing increase in pace as customers focus on their core business. 10 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Security – Legislation Driving Change
Whilst we believe that integrated security provides opportunities for growth, this is likely to be a longer-
term requirement from our customers. In the short to medium-term, we will provide a range of
products from which we can select the most appropriate solution for each contract. New legislation will
help drive change in some markets. Across Europe, the implementation of the Working Time Directive
will provide planning challenges for all businesses. In the UK, the establishment of the Security Industry
Authority will improve standards across the industry and differentiate high quality companies from the
rest of the market. And across the world, new maritime legislation is providing opportunities for growth
in the port and shipping sectors.
Justice Services – A Growth Opportunity
As support for private sector involvement in justice services grows, this product area continues 
to develop at an exceptional rate. Our Justice Services business had a good year with very strong
growth in tagging, the highest service levels ever in our custody and escorting business, and with
our prison in South Wales being named as one of the best performing prisons in England and
Wales by the National Audit Ofﬁce.
In 2004, we will learn the results of two major contract re-bids that we have been focusing on for
some time. We hope that we will be successful and that our share of the UK justice market will
continue to expand. Other opportunities to move existing products into new markets and to continue
our extension into the police outsourcing sector will deliver further growth in the coming year.
Group Chairman
We were pleased to welcome Colin Sharman as our new Chairman in May following Sir Neil Macfarlane’s
decision to stand down earlier than he had planned following a bout of ill-health. We are all very
grateful for the tremendous support which Neil provided over the years.
Nick Buckles
