 6 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chairman’s statement
Results – Proﬁt before interest, taxation, amortisation, exceptional items and
discontinued operations was £80.2m compared with £80.0m (as adjusted for 
a non-recurring proﬁt of approximately £3m related to services in connection 
with the introduction of the Euro) for the previous year. Proﬁt margins declined 
in the United Kingdom and in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region,
increased in Asia and remained the same in the Americas. The group’s overall
proﬁt margin on sales fell from 6.9% to 6.3%.
Dividend 
The directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 1.62p per share, payable on 5 April 2004, which, taken
with the interim dividend of 0.78p per share paid on 30 September 2003, makes a total ordinary
dividend of 2.40p per share for the year ended 30 September 2003. This represents an increase 
of 13.7% per share over the previous year’s dividend.
Disposals
In July 2003 we sold our remaining 50% interest in the Distribution division to Deutsche Post for 
u247m (£167m). We returned £75m of the sale proceeds to our shareholders by way of a special
dividend of 12p per share which was accompanied by a 17 for 20 consolidation of the then existing
Securicor shares. During the year, we also completed the sale of Securicor Information Systems, the
last of our Communications businesses, so that by the year end we had become totally focused on
our security business.
Chairmanship
Sir Neil Macfarlane retired as Chairman in May. It had been intended that I would succeed Sir Neil 
as Chairman at the beginning of November but, due to ill-health, Sir Neil decided to step down
earlier and I thus assumed the Chairmanship in May.
Sir Neil served on the board of Securicor with great dedication and skill over a period of ten years,
becoming Chairman in 1995. During his period of ofﬁce two very signiﬁcant corporate events took
place. First, in 1996, the group’s two listed entities, Securicor Group plc and Security Services plc,
with ﬁve classes of shares between them, were combined into a single Securicor plc with one class 
of shares. Then, in 1999, the group sold to BT its 40% stake in Cellnet for £3.15bn. Sir Neil’s former
colleagues have told me how much they appreciated his support and wisdom throughout his tenure
and particularly during those two critical transactions.
01    02      03
Dividend per share
(pence)
1.65
2.11
2.40
01    02      03
Underlying EPS* 
(pence)
6.0
6.8
7.3
*Excluding effect of Euro
introduction in 2002. Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7
I am pleased to report that Sir Neil is now ﬁt again and, whilst thanking him for his great
contribution to Securicor, we wish him a long and happy retirement.
Staff tributes
I know that each year it is traditional for the Chairman to pay tribute to the commitment 
and loyalty of Securicor staff throughout the world. I have so far only had limited opportunity 
to get to know the group’s employees, but those whom I have met have impressed me with 
their enthusiasm and expertise.
The group has well over 100,000 staff working worldwide and I thank them all for their contribution
to the continued wellbeing of Securicor. I commend in particular the many employees around the
world who have been the recipients of bravery awards as a result of their action when confronted 
by criminals.
Senior management
I have also been impressed by the strength of Securicor’s senior team under the leadership of Nick
Buckles. The group is fortunate to have a core of vastly experienced, highly commercial managers 
who are ever alert to new opportunities in the international security industry.
Future prospects
At the half year, we indicated that difﬁcult market conditions would impact some of our businesses 
in the second half. Despite these market difﬁculties, our businesses have performed well overall,
maintaining the focus on service delivery and customer retention whilst driving out costs. We continue
our security focus. With our leading market positions, strong balance sheet and high-quality
management, there are good opportunities for turnover and margin growth in the year ahead, 
through both organic expansion and acquisitions.
We are responding robustly to the challenges which we continue to face in some of our markets and 
we can therefore look forward to 2004 with greater conﬁdence.
Colin Sharman
01    02      03
Underlying EBITA*
(£m)
68.8
80.0 80.2
*Excluding effect of Euro
introduction in 2002.
