 08 > Group 4 Securicor > ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Chairman’s Statement
The merger of Securicor and the security businesses
of Group 4 Falck was completed on 19 July 2004.
The proposed merger was first announced in February
2004 and it was completed within five months, a huge
tribute to the commitment and determination of those
within Securicor and Group 4 Falck who worked on the
transaction, and to the efficiency and professionalism of
the various teams of professional advisers. I thank them
all for their hard work.
This first set of published results of Group 4 Securicor
is unfortunately not straightforward, due to the merger
having taken place mid-year. In accounting terms, Group 4,
which was what remained after the Falck businesses
were demerged from Group 4 Falck at the same time
as the merger with Securicor, is treated as having
acquired Securicor, and thus the statutory results of
the group for 2004 include a full year’s trading of the
security businesses of Group 4 Falck but, in respect of
the Securicor businesses, only the trading from 20 July
(the first day the Group 4 Securicor plc shares were
listed) to 31 December 2004. As this would give an
incomplete picture of the trading in 2004 of all the
businesses comprised in the new group, we have
included on pages 43 and 44 unaudited pro forma
financial information. This shows what the results would
have looked like if the merger had been completed at
the beginning of the year and will thus act as a more
useful indicator of likely future performance.
Results
The figures I refer to in this section are taken from
the pro forma financial information for the reason
stated above.
Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation and
exceptional items was £218.9m, derived as to
£154.5m from manned security, £28.6m from security
systems, £59.6m from cash services and £2.4m from
discontinued operations, less head office costs of £26.2m.
The overall profit margin on sales from continuing
business was 5.7%. Organic turnover growth was 6.2%.
Dividend
The directors recommend a final dividend of 1.85p or
DKK 0.1981 per share, payable on 12 July 2005.
Board changes
It was stated at the time of the merger that I would
retire in September 2005 and that my successor as
chairman would be appointed on the recommendation
of the company’s Nomination Committee. It was
further announced that Nick Buckles would succeed
Lars Nørby Johansen as chief executive at the
appropriate time.
The board has determined that, with the businesses
performing well, integration on track and the new
management team working together successfully, Nick
Buckles should assume the chief executive role this
summer. It has therefore been agreed that Lars Nørby
Johansen will step down as chief executive and leave
the board after the annual general meeting on 30 June.
Lars was one of the main architects of Group 4
Securicor. I have, as chairman, found him a most inspiring
and visionary chief executive and it has been a privilege
to work with him. His creativity is outstanding and is
envied by many. He leaves the company in a healthy and
prosperous position and we wish him continued success
in whatever he decides to do in the future.
Colin Sharman, joint deputy chairman and senior
independent director, has already announced that he
too will step down from the board later this year.
He has a number of other high-profile directorships
and feels it is impossible to do adequate justice to
them all. He will be missed. I thank him warmly, in
particular for his help with the merger negotiations,
and we all wish him well for the future.
Given the changes referred to above, the board believes
that it would be beneficial for me to remain on the
board for longer than was originally envisaged and they
have asked me to stay, as chairman, until the annual
general meeting in June 2006. The board has agreed,
following a recommendation from the Nomination
Committee, that I should then be succeeded as chairman
by Alf Duch-Pedersen who is one of the two deputy
chairmen. Alf was a non-executive director of Group 4
Falck from 2000 until the merger and he is currently
chief executive of the Danish company, Danisco A/S,
a position from which he will retire in August 2006.
I am delighted that Grahame Gibson became an
executive director on 1 April 2005. Grahame joined
Group 4 in 1983, since when he has enjoyed a wide
range of senior management experience within the
security industry.
All the directors, except for Lars Nørby Johansen, are
required to stand for election at the annual general
meeting on 30 June 2005. Biographical details of the
directors are on page 29.
Sir David Gore-Booth, who had joined the Group 4
Falck board in 2000 and then came onto the Group 4
Securicor board, died in October 2004 after a long
illness. David was a colourful and forthright individual,
extremely knowledgeable, and a fine contributor to
the board.
Staff tributes
This group is all about people. Around the globe,
our employees are our ambassadors – I am extremely
proud of all of them, and grateful for their efforts.
Many of them frequently have to work at unsocial
hours, such is the nature of the security business.
To all of them, I extend my best wishes and sincerest
thanks for their friendship and support.
Future prospects
We have established a solid base for future
development and we expect continued good progress
in 2005.
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen
Chairman
  09
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen
Chairman
future
growth
“We have established
a solid base for future
development and we
expect continued good
progress in 2005.”
for
A solid base
