 Chief Executive’s Overview
There is no doubt that 2004 proved to be an interesting
and challenging year in which our abilities in a
number of key commercial areas were put to the test.
On 2 February 2004 we announced that Group 4 Falck A/S and Securicor plc
were in merger talks which would result in the creation of Group 4 Securicor.
Creating Group 4 Securicor 
During the period between the announcement and
completion of the merger, a vast amount of work
was undertaken.
> An integration office was established which enabled
us to plan the integration of the organisations in the
utmost detail without sharing sensitive customer data
> Synergy benefits resulting from the merger were
carefully identified, reviewed and refined through our
internal processes and an independent external audit
> Key positions within the organisation were defined
and individuals to take up those roles, throughout
the businesses and at board level, were identified
and agreed
> The merger detail was presented to the European
Commission and conditions for approval of the
transaction were agreed
> GSL, Group 4 Falck’s outsourcing business, was
divested
> Falck A/S, Group 4 Falck’s safety business, was
de-merged and listed separately on the Copenhagen
Stock Exchange
> The relevant shareholder approvals were obtained
to enable the transaction to be completed
> Extensive employee communications programmes
were established to ensure that staff were kept
informed during every stage of the process
> Group 4 Securicor was created
At the same time we continued to focus on the key
business issues to ensure that we entered into the
merger in the best possible condition.
Commitment to stakeholders
When Group 4 Securicor was established, there were a
number of key commitments made to our stakeholders:
The merger would create a global leader in the
provision of security services – our organisation
operates in more than 100 countries, a geographic
footprint which is unrivalled in our industry.
As a result of the transaction we would provide
consolidation in a number of key markets which would
enable us to deliver on our internal cost synergies.
By applying the Group 4 Falck security systems
expertise across the wider geographic footprint, we
would be better placed to provide integrated security
solutions in line with future demand.
By using the expertise of Securicor’s market-leading
cash services businesses across the wider group, we
would improve performance and drive growth as well
as make substantial cost savings.
Our combined platform across emerging markets
provided us with a unique market position through
which we would be able to support the growing
needs of our international customer base.
Delivery of our targeted £30 million of synergy benefits
would provide a significant margin improvement.
Facing up to our challenges
All of the preparation which took place during the
period after the initial merger announcement was
essential in enabling us to achieve the merger plan
and to focus on customer needs during a period
of significant change.
I am pleased to report that our customer retention
remained high during 2004 as we concentrated on
customer service and keeping our customers informed
throughout the process.
The workforce has remained highly motivated and we
have made good progress in building on our existing
strong relationships with employees and their
representatives.
We were pleased to have achieved the divestment of
the Securicor business in Luxembourg and the Group
4 Falck cash services business in Scotland, which was
one of the conditions of the merger approval from
the European Commission. We hope to conclude the
divestment of the Group 4 Dutch security business,
another European Commission requirement, during
the first half of 2005.
We exited 2004 slightly ahead of our integration and
synergy delivery plan and remain confident that we will
achieve the majority of our published synergy target of
£30 million per annum in 2005.
There remain a few geographic gaps in our global
footprint, namely Iberia, Latin America and Australia.
We aim to fill these gaps in the future through strategic,
value-enhancing acquisitions.
Overall we have performed strongly in 2004, despite
the potential distractions of the merger and the
integration of the businesses. There are still some
challenges ahead, but there are also some great
opportunities for us to continue to develop our global
position as a leading provider of security solutions.
Delivering on our promises
On 14 March 2005 we announced that the CEO
succession, which we had planned during the merger
process, would take place at the end of June when I
will step down from the Board of Group 4 Securicor
and Nick Buckles will take over as CEO.
When I look back, I am proud of what we have
achieved in a very short space of time through the
commitment and hard work of everyone in the
organisation. Looking to the future, I am certain that
Nick and the management team have the experience,
capability and determination to deliver on our
promises and we can look forward to the remainder
of 2005 and beyond with high expectations and the
confidence that the organisation will achieve its goals.
I’ve enjoyed my time in the security industry and
specifically as CEO of Group 4 Falck and then Group
4 Securicor. I know that the business is in safe hands
and wish my colleagues all the very best for the future.
Lars Nørby Johansen
Chief Executive Officer
10 > Group 4 Securicor > ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 11
“Our customer
retention remained
high during 2004 as
we concentrated on
customer service and
keeping our customers
informed throughout
the integration process.”
Lars Nørby Johansen
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Unrivalled
geographic
footprint
 
