 08
We had some very strong
performances in 2005,
particularly from the 
cash services division,
the US security services 
business and New 
Markets overall.
2005 Performance
Having announced a substantial merger in 2004, the next
eighteen months were bound to be challenging for the
organisation as we focused on bringing two large international
companies together, achieving the cost savings that we had
promised to our investors and maintaining our focus on the
day-to-day business.
We were extremely pleased with the business performance
achieved in 2005 and it was a credit to everyone in the
organisation who worked so hard to ensure that the integration
went smoothly and that the focus on the business did not
waiver through an incredible time of change.
When we presented our full year results to the market in
March 2006 we were pleased to report that:
> Our strong growth record continued in 2005 with organic
growth at 7% and overall turnover growth up 8.2% to
£4.13 billion.
> PBITA was up 16% at constant exchange rates to
£254 million, representing a margin improvement of 0.5%
to 6.2% overall.
> We had generated £198 million as cash flow, representing
80% of PBITA – exactly in line with the group target.
> Adjusted earnings per share increased to 11.1p.
> We increased our final dividend by 21% to 2.24 pence
per share and announced a new dividend policy, with the
medium term aim of reducing our dividend cover to two
and a half times earnings.
We exited 2005 with some challenges remaining in a number
of European manned security markets and in the German cash
services market which was experiencing a certain amount of
turmoil following the difficulties caused by a major competitor.
We had some very strong performances in 2005, particularly
from the cash services division, the US security services business
and New Markets overall.
Chief Executive’s Review
“WE WERE EXTREMELY PLEASED WITH THE
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ACHIEVED IN 2005
AND IT WAS A CREDIT TO EVERYONE IN THE
ORGANISATION WHO WORKED SO HARD
to ensure that the integration went smoothly and that the
focus on the business did not waiver through an incredible
time of change.” Nick Buckles 09
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Our strong growth record continued in 2005 with overall
organic growth of 7%, significantly stronger than the 6.2%
achieved in 2004.
The highlights in growth terms were North America manned
security which grew 8.5%, the cash services division which
achieved 6.2% and New Markets overall which continue to
grow strongly at more than 20%.
Future Growth Opportunities
We expect future growth to continue across all product areas
towards our medium-term targets. New Markets continue to
grow strongly overall and, as our cash services businesses in
different countries move through the phases of development
from pure cash-in-transit to cash management and ATM
outsourcing, there are further opportunities for the businesses
to grow.
We have a great deal of expertise in the cash services sector
within the group and will focus on spreading this further
throughout the organisation.
Our ability to service international accounts is a strong point of
differentiation for the organisation, made possible through our
global coverage.We expect demand for quality security services
across international boundaries to increase in the future as blue
chip organisations become more global and require high quality,
consistent services across their operations.
G4S Global Risks, our consulting and specialist security business,
has opportunities for future growth across a wide range of
services, from risk consultancy to investigative and government
security support services. By using the international footprint
of the group, the business is able to provide these specialist
services across a wide range of countries.
Opportunities for the development of Justice Services exist in
exporting our expertise into new markets as well as growing
our current contract base, particularly in electronic monitoring
of offenders.
We do not believe that there will be substantial opportunities
for combined security systems and manned security in the
short term, but we are confident that, by having a systems
capability closely aligned to our manned security businesses,
we will be able to take advantage of opportunities to provide
complete security solutions to our customers.
We have recently brought our manned security and security
systems businesses closer together as a single division, focused
on providing security solutions to our customers.
Our systems businesses remain key to our strategy, but we do
not intend to build up a large systems division to compete with
global systems competitors. Our focus will be on a few niche
areas which add value to our manned security business.
CHANGING BOUNDARIES / CONSTANT DELIVERY
ORGANIC GROWTH TARGETS
Manned Security
Developed Markets 5%+
Manned Security
Developing Markets 10%+
Security Systems 8%+
Cash Services 8%+
Justice Services 15%+
2005 Organic Growth
North New
Organic Growth 2005 Europe America Markets Total
Manned Security 2.5% 8.5% 19.3% 7.1%
Security Systems 4.0% 63.2% 48.7% 8.0%
Cash Services 5.8% (5.0%) 19.8% 6.2%
T otal 3.7% 7.7% 21.1% 7.0% 10
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Future Margin Progression
We will achieve future margin progression through driving
growth in our traditional sectors, through product development
and market development, and as a result of our usual tight
control of costs and effective management of resources.There
are also a number of businesses which were operating below
our margin targets in 2005 and our focus in 2006 will be on
bringing these businesses back up to the expectations of the
group as quickly as possible.
Mergers & Acquisitions
Our acquisition strategy remains unchanged and focused on a
few key areas.We are constantly seeking bolt-on acquisitions
across all services which add scale or additional expertise to
our businesses or continue to consolidate fragmented markets.
Whilst the organisation currently operates in more than 100
countries, we will seek to fill any appropriate geographic gaps
in the security services businesses.This will enable further
development of our Global Risks customer base and increase
the opportunities for expanding international accounts.
In cash services, it is not essential to have wide international
coverage, but it is important to be the market leader in each
market and to choose markets carefully depending on the role
of the central bank, the sophistication of the cash cycle and the
competitive landscape.Therefore, we will be selective about
new country entries and target specific key markets.
Our acquisition strategy will remain focused on these key areas
and we will ensure that any acquisition opportunities meet our
internal criteria – the right businesses, in the right markets and
with the opportunity to deliver the appropriate level of return
on investment.
MARGIN TARGETS
Manned Security
Developed Markets 6%+
Manned Security
Developing Markets 6%+
Security Systems 10%+
Cash Services 10%+
Justice Services 10%+
2005 Margin Development
PBITA Margin by Business Line (%)
10.0
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
Manned
Security
Security
Systems
Cash
Services
T otal
5.9 5.9
8.1
8.2
7.7
8.9
5.7
6.2
2004
2005
Note: At constant exchange rates and with prior year comparatives
being pro forma for the combined group
We achieved our targeted 0.5% margin growth in 2005 with
strong progression in Cash Services and Security Systems. 11
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Strategic Development
We believe that the group is uniquely positioned as a provider
of security solutions, focused on the needs of our customers
across a wide range of markets.
In New Markets, it is essential to offer the full range of security
services as customer buying decisions are co-ordinated in this
way. Once a strategic relationship is established, customers
require a single provider to take care of their every security need.
We believe that future demand will continue to focus on
combined security solutions, where security systems provide 
a support to the manned security offering.
We have seen significant improvements in the performance of
the cash services businesses as a result of spreading our cash
services expertise throughout businesses involved in providing
these services.
Whilst specific service delivery expertise differs between
various product ranges, we believe that there are shared
competencies amongst our management which provide us 
with competitive advantage. It also means that we have a 
broad talent pool from which we can develop our future
management expertise.
Due to our customer focus, we believe we are stronger as one
organisation providing a range of security solutions than we
would be if focused on a single product area.
Summary & Outlook
The key focus of 2005 was in bringing the two organisations
together, integrating our major businesses and delivering on the
targeted synergy benefits.At the same time we continued with
our organic growth and margin improvements and delivered a
very strong set of trading results.
Some businesses require added focus to get them back on
track, particularly some of the manned security businesses in
Europe. Issues in Germany which surfaced early in 2006 mean
that there is an opportunity for significantly improving the
market for, and the performance of, our cash services business.
Our confidence in our ability to continue to drive through
strong results is reflected in our decision to increase dividends
and our commitment to reducing dividend cover over time.
We are extremely pleased with the performance of the group
in its first full year of trading and are confident that we will be
able to continue this success into the future.
Nick Buckles
Chief Executive Officer
 
