 6
Financial PerformanceThe group has performed well in 2008,
with revenue increased substantially and margin maintained.
Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation and exceptional
items increased by 23%* to £416.4m, whilst turnover was up
22%* to £5,942.9m. Organic growth has increased to 9.5%
and group profit margin is 7%. Adjusted earnings per share
increased by 26% to 16.7p.
* To show a fair comparison, constant exchange rates are assumed
Developments During the year we have taken a number of
strategically important steps. We have made some significant
acquisitions, including GSL,ArmorGroup,T ouchcom, MJM
Investigations, RONCO Consulting and the Rock Steady
Group. As a result we have been able to develop the breadth
of our offering and move a greater proportion of our business
into longer term and higher value services. We have also
finalised the disposal of our French and German security
services businesses. In May we issued 127m new shares, placing
them with institutional investors and generating net proceeds
of £276m as a means of maintaining sound financial ratios and
helping to fund strategic acquisitions.
I AMVERY PLEASEDTO BE ABLETO REPORT ANOTHER EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE
BYTHE GROUP . OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS ARE STRONG AND,ATTHE SAMETIME,WE
HAVETAKEN SIGNIFICANT STRIDES IN IMPLEMENTING A STRATEGY WHICH WILL
ENABLE USTO CONTINUETO DEVELOP FORTHE FUTURE. THESE ARE OF COURSE
DIFFICULTTIMES AND WE KNOWTHAT WE HAVETO REMAIN ALERTTOTHE
PROBLEMS WHICH MAY CONFRONT US INTHE NEXT FEWYEARS. WE WILLTHOUGH
ALSO MAKETHE MOST OFTHE OPPORTUNITIES WHICH CAN BE A BY -PRODUCT OF
THE DIFFICULTIES WHICH LIE AHEAD.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 7
G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Dividend The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.68p or DKK 0.3052 per share, payable on 5 June 2009,
which, with the interim dividend of 2.75p or DKK 0.2572 per share paid on 31 October 2008, makes a total
dividend of 6.43p or DKK 0.5624 per share for the year ended 31 December 2008. This is an increase of 30%
over the total dividend for 2007 and the culmination of the board’s stated aim to reduce the company’s target
divided cover to two and a half times normalised earnings. For the future, the board expects to increase dividend
broadly in line with normalised earnings.
The Board I am pleased to be able to report that the board continues to perform well. I can say this with some
degree of certainty as we engaged consultants who undertook a very thorough review of the performance of
the board as a whole, its members and of each of its committees. My own experience of working with this
board endorses the conclusions of the reports we have received. The board maintains an excellent blend of
experience and skills. We are not complacent however and realise the huge importance of rigorous standards
where corporate governance is concerned. We will therefore continue to monitor the way the board functions
and to place great emphasis on the controls in operation throughout the group.
Sir Malcolm Williamson retired from our board in May of course and we have announced that, following this year’s
AGM,Thorleif Krarup will stand down as chairman of the Audit Committee, with Mark Seligman taking his place.
Our Staff I mentioned that we are living in uncertain times. This presents our group with many opportunities,
but it also results in many of our employees (now totalling in excess of 585,000 around the world) carrying out
their work in what can sometimes be the most difficult of circumstances. This was brought home to us very hard
by the deaths of two of our colleagues during the terrorist attacks on the hotel in Mumbai where they were
providing services. I would therefore like to pay tribute not only to them, but also to all our employees who face
danger and sometimes risk injury because of the violent world in which we exist.
We have also seen that our employees can have a positive impact on those around them – and not just as a
result of the services the group provides. In our Corporate Responsibility Report you will see just a few
examples of the tremendous efforts being made by some of our staff and the effects they are having on the
environment in which they live.
The importance to our group of its employees cannot be overstated. It is because we recognise our staff as the
group’s greatest asset that we have forged an alliance with UNI, the global trades union organisation, by entering
into an Ethical Employment Partnership – and by reaching a recognition agreement with the SEIU in the United
States. We are determined to do all we can to raise standards for our employees and, we hope, for all who work
in our industry.
The Future The economic future is especially difficult to predict. So many businesses seem to be suffering in the
current economic climate and it would be foolish to assume that we can be completely immune from the effects
of what appears to be a global slow-down. I believe however that the nature of our businesses, our broad
geographic spread and our strategy of developing closer, longer-term, more valued relationships with our customers
will stand us in good stead for the future. I believe the group is well placed to meet the challenges ahead.
Alf Duch-Pedersen
Chairman
