 06  G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
This is my ﬁrst statement in a G4S annual report, 
having taken over from Alf Duch-Pedersen as 
chairman of the board in June last year . Neither 
Alf nor I appreciated then the extent of the 
challenges the group would have to face during 
the second half of 201 2. However , although my 
ﬁrst few months in office were something of a 
baptism of ﬁre in some respects, I am pleased to 
say that we have come through these difficulties 
and have learned a lot as well. It is important 
to keep a sense of perspective too. The group 
operates in so many parts of the world, providing 
vital services to thousands of customers and doing 
so to the very highest standards. This underlying 
strength in depth is reﬂected in the company’s 
results for 201 2.
As part of my planned introduction to the role of 
chairman, I have had the opportunity to visit a variety 
of the group’s operations in different parts of the world 
and have met with many of its senior leaders in a range 
of forums. I have been extremely impressed by the 
enthusiasm and professionalism of the group’s managers.
I have also been able to meet most of the company’s 
larger shareholders. Keeping in touch with investors is an 
essential part of my role and I intend to maintain regular 
contact with them in future.
Financial performance
The macroeconomic conditions in many of our markets 
continue to be difficult. In much of Europe, growth is non-
existent and the problems with US Government spending 
are well known. Against this backdrop, the group’s results 
in 2012 are strong, with good organic growth overall 
and excellent cash conversion. Our wide geographical 
spread and involvement in developing markets with 
higher GDP growth has stood us in good stead and in 
developed markets where outsourcing trends are strong, 
we continue to make good progress. In the light of this 
performance and in view of our conﬁdence in the group’s 
strategy, the directors propose a ﬁnal dividend of 5.54p 
(DKK 0.473) per share, payable on 14 June 2013. With 
an interim dividend of 3.42p (DKK 0.322) per share paid 
on 19 October 2012, the total dividend for the year will 
amount to 8.96p (DKK 0.795) per share. This represents 
a 5% increase on the total dividend for 201 1.
Reputation and risk management
No consideration of the company’s performance in 2012 
can ignore the Olympics contract. It made headlines and 
brought us to the public’s attention, especially in the UK, 
and for all the wrong reasons. With help from PwC, the 
board conducted a thorough review of the circumstances 
surrounding the group’s performance on delivering the 
Olympics contract to ensure that the reasons for the 
problems were properly understood and so that any 
necessary remedial actions could be indentiﬁed and taken. 
It was very important to me as the new chairman, and 
to the whole board, that we took whatever steps were 
necessary to learn these lessons, no matter how painful 
this process might be.
We are satisﬁed that there was no systemic problem in 
the way that the group operated its business and that it 
was the unique nature of the Olympics contract and the 
compressed timeframe in which it had to be delivered 
which were at the heart of the group’s failure to deliver all 
that it should have done on this occasion. Nevertheless, 
we have introduced stronger mechanisms for reviewing 
risks in general and contract risk in particular, including 
lowering the value threshold for contracts requiring 
board approval. 
Chairman’s statement
Building on strong foundations for the future G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  07
Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The new, strengthened, Risk Committee will be a focus 
for this activity and a newly created chief operating 
officer role will increase the ability of the executive team 
to ensure that risk management is at the heart of key 
business decisions. 
The board review also concluded that there had been no 
signiﬁcant shortcomings in Nick Buckles’ performance, nor 
any serious failings attributable to him in connection with 
the Olympics contract. Consequently the board decided 
it was in the company’s and its stakeholders’ best interests 
that he should remain as our CEO. I was and remain 
entirely conﬁdent that this was the right decision.
Away from the media frenzy in the UK in the summer, 
hundreds of thousands of the group’s employees continued 
to provide outstanding service levels in what can sometimes 
be difficult and occasionally dangerous circumstances. Any 
objective assessment of the group’s capabilities should of 
course be based on the excellent work which the group has 
always provided and continued to provide throughout 2012. 
We understand though that reputations are hard won and 
sometimes too easily lost, so we are determined to repair 
the damage the group suffered in the summer by continuing 
to do what we do best and doing it well. Rebuilding the 
trust and conﬁdence of the UK Government in G4S is an 
essential part of that process of course and the settlement 
with the organising committee of the Olympic Games and 
recent contract awards by UK public bodies are indeed 
good news.
The board
2012 saw change on the board, with the retirement of Alf 
Duch-Pedersen and my appointment as his replacement. 
I would like to thank Alf for his service to the group, both 
as chairman since 2006 and before that as a director of 
the company and its predecessors. Continually refreshing 
a board is not just a corporate governance nicety, it is also 
vitally important if a board is to function as effectively 
as possible. The Nomination Committee has therefore 
considered carefully the range of skills and experience 
which the board needs and has taken account of the fact 
that, over time, we will lose the skills and experience 
of some of our current board members as they retire 
or move on.
I am delighted therefore that we have been able to recruit 
Paul Spence and Adam Crozier and that we will shortly 
be joined by Tim Weller. Their qualities will be invaluable 
to the board and to the group as we continue to develop 
the business.
At the conclusion of this year’s AGM, and having served 
for nine years, both Paul Condon and Bo Lerenius will 
retire from the board. The whole board will be sorry to 
see them go and I am very grateful for their support in the 
short time we have worked together.
As usual, the board conducted a review of its own 
performance in 2012. Taking account of the conclusions 
of that review, the board has set itself a number of clear 
objectives for 2013 and I intend to report in future on 
how the board has performed in relation to them.
The future
2013 will be a time of both change and consolidation for 
the group. There have been a number of changes at both 
board and group executive committee level and there 
will be new challenges involved in making our new risk 
management processes a seamless part of the way we 
operate and in ensuring that our services always meet 
or exceed our customers’ expectations. 
The group will however continue to grow and develop 
and I have learned in the short time that I have been 
involved with the company that, in this aim, it is well 
served by dedicated and professional employees all over 
the world. 
John Connolly
Chairman
400
300
200
100
 
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
 G4S     FTSE 100 index      Peer group
2004–2012 total shareholder return performance
Value (p)
Total dividend per share up 5%
8.96p
