 08  G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic review
In 201 2, we achieved our eighth consecutive 
year of underlying revenue, PBIT A and dividend 
growth. This demonstrates that, despite ongoing 
economic uncertainty in 201 2 and the challenges 
of delivering the London 201 2 security contract, 
the underlying business has performed well and 
the positive trading momentum is expected 
to continue.
We are conﬁdent in the future and expect  
to continue our track record of growth whilst 
maintaining our discipline on margins and  
cash generation.
How would you sum up the group’s 
trading for 2012?
Despite continued economic challenges in Europe, the 
overall business has performed well with an acceleration 
in organic growth to 6.9% from 5.1% in 201 1.
Group revenues were up by 8.1% on the prior year and 
the key highlights of the year were the strong growth 
in the UK government and US commercial businesses 
and the continued strong performance in developing 
markets. Our developing markets activities achieved 
organic growth of 10% and they now make up 33% of the 
group's revenue. 
Despite the economic challenges of low GDP growth and 
the impact of low interest rates in developed markets 
on our cash solutions business, we managed to maintain 
margins overall through continuing to focus on keeping 
costs under control and cash ﬂow generation. 
What were the main highlights of 
the year?
There were a number of signiﬁcant highlights during 2012, 
which either contributed to our performance in the year or 
laid the foundations for future growth and success.
Overall, we have performed strongly with organic growth 
of nearly 7% against a difficult trading environment 
and the distractions of the Olympics contract in the 
summer. We worked hard to implement substantial 
cost savings during the ﬁrst half of the year, signiﬁcantly 
reducing our overhead costs to help counter the current 
margin headwinds, particularly in Europe, resulting in us 
maintaining our margins at 7.1%.
Despite signiﬁcant economic challenges, our US 
Commercial business grew particularly strongly in 2012, as 
a result of a ﬁrm focus on customer service and retention, 
the expansion of a number of existing contracts and a 
number of new business wins such as Google, Gallagher 
Bassett and Iberdola. Overall the US commercial business 
grew by 1 1% in the year.
Chief Executive’s interview
Looking forward with conﬁdence G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  09
Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
One of the key achievements during the year was the 
mobilisation of a number of major contracts in the 
UK. We began the facilities management of more than 
340 court buildings across the Midlands, Wales and 
the North of England in February this year on behalf 
of the UK Ministry of Justice. We opened Oakwood 
Prison, one of the largest in the UK, providing places 
for over 1,600 prisoners in the West Midlands during 
April, and commenced the provision of transport and 
accommodation for asylum applicants across four regions 
of the UK in June. In April, we also successfully mobilised 
the ﬁrst major support services contract with Lincolnshire 
Police Authority where we provide a wide variety of back 
office functions to allow the force to concentrate more 
resources on front line policing services – reducing the 
Police Authority running costs by around 16% in the ﬁrst 
nine months of the contract.
Our developing markets businesses performed well 
in the year and we continue to focus on developing 
markets for future growth. We expanded our presence 
in the high growth Brazilian market in the second half 
of 2012 through the acquisition of Vanguarda, one of 
the country’s leading security providers, to complement 
the acquisition of Interativa which was completed late 
in 2011. These acquisitions provide us with an excellent 
platform for growth in one of the world’s leading 
economies and help to strengthen our service offering 
and capabilities across the region to include security, 
facilities management and technology. 
We have made excellent progress during the year in 
establishing our product-speciﬁc service excellence 
centres which are focused on ensuring long-term 
operational efficiency, high quality service standards, 
the development of technology to support service 
delivery and the sharing of best practice across our 
main service lines. These service excellence centres 
have already had a signiﬁcant impact on the businesses 
through reduction in attack losses in the cash solutions 
business and assisted nine countries in identifying proﬁt 
improvement opportunities.
It is also important to recognise the efforts of our 
managers and ﬁnance teams in terms of keeping the 
focus on generating cash throughout the year, particularly 
against a difficult economic environment where customers 
have been looking to extend payment terms and hang 
on to their cash for as long as possible. Delivering 95% of 
PBITA as cash in 2012 was a signiﬁcant achievement.
What were the biggest challenges of 
the year and how did they impact 
the group’s performance?
The most signiﬁcant challenge of 2012 was handling the 
issues associated with our failure to provide the contracted 
number of security personnel for the Olympic Games. 
The Games was a huge success for Britain and as a British 
company which has been an important part of British 
society for over 75 years, we wanted to play our part in 
delivering a great Games for Britain.
The realisation as the Games approached, that the 
workforce numbers we believed to be in place would not 
materialise, was a big shock for us all and was the start of 
one of the toughest periods in the group’s history.
On the plus side, I was impressed with the way that 
colleagues across the group – from both the UK and 
overseas – stepped in to help resolve the issues as 
soon as they came to light. This meant that, in the end, 
we were able to recruit around 16,000 security staff 
and around 8,000 of them worked at the Games on 
the peak day. Overall we delivered around 82% of the 
contracted requirement and all of the security workforce 
requirements for the transition period between 
the Olympics and Paralympics and throughout the 
Paralympic Games.
Reputationally, the group faced extreme scrutiny, 
particularly from politicians and the media, which took 
an enormous amount of effort and resource to manage. 
The detailed ﬁnancial implications are highlighted 
elsewhere in this report, but the overall impact was that 
rather than making a modest proﬁt on the contract, we 
will make a loss on the contract of £70m having agreed 
to refund a signiﬁcant proportion of the management 
fee as a gesture of goodwill to the UK Government – 
an important customer for the group. We also incurred 
additional costs of £1 1m relating to external fees and a 
further £7m in sponsorship and marketing costs. This all 
equates to a total loss of £88m.
Whilst the overall situation was extremely disappointing 
for us, I am proud of the way our staff worked together 
with the military and police to ensure that the Games 
was safe and secure. Having reached agreement on the 
settlement, we hope that in 2013 we can put the issue 
behind us and continue to demonstrate that G4S is a great 
company which plays an important role in societies all over 
the world through the efforts of our over 620,000 loyal 
and dedicated employees.  10  G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic review 
Chief Executive’s interview continued
In November, we were faced with what seemed like 
a signiﬁcant change of policy by the UK Government 
when the Ministry of Justice announced that it would 
not outsource a number of prisons to the private sector 
and would be taking an existing outsourced prison back 
under the control of the Prison Service. Whilst this was 
disappointing to us and to the market at the time, there 
does appear to be some positive news as a result of the 
developing UK prison policy, which will include a substantial 
amount of outsourcing of services such as rehabilitation, 
facilities management and other related services. We are 
in a good position to bid for these contracts which are 
estimated to be worth around £1bn per annum.  
2012 was a challenging year for our US Government 
Solutions business as a result of a signiﬁcant reduction 
in the US Federal Government spending in both the US 
domestic government sector and in contracts for overseas 
landmine clearance. We introduced a number of cost-
saving measures during the year to mitigate the challenges 
in this market and have recently announced our intention 
to divest the business to a parent which would be able 
to add or create more value than we are able to, being 
a foreign parent with limited control over the business 
strategy and restricted access to important commercial 
data and limited ability to manage the business and share 
best practice.
Elsewhere, trading conditions, particularly in Continental 
Europe continued to be tough with increasing margin 
pressure on contract renewals across many developed 
markets. Early in 2012 we began our programme of 
overhead cost saving measures which have helped to protect 
our margins in the latter half of the year and should provide a 
good basis on which to move forward in 2013.
What lessons have you learned 
during the year and what will you do 
differently in the future as a result?
We commissioned a thorough review of our performance 
on the London 2012 Olympic security contract with the 
assistance of PwC and the ﬁndings were published in 
September 2012. The review concluded that the failures 
were speciﬁc to the very special nature of the contract, but 
we decided to take a number of actions to ensure that best 
practices are applied consistently across the entire group. 
With that in mind, we are implementing a more rigorous 
risk assessment for new contracts and improving contract 
take-on processes and project management. Board 
oversight of new contracts is also being enhanced including 
review and approval of large or complex contracts.
We are also strengthening the Group Executive team 
with the appointment of a chief operating officer, whose 
responsibilities will include a speciﬁc focus on operational 
procedures, risk management and quality of customer 
service and delivery. Recruitment for this role is well 
underway and we hope to announce an appointment 
during the ﬁrst half of this year.
Elsewhere, we have continued to focus on keeping 
costs down and reviewing our overhead structures and 
resources to make sure we are in good shape to weather 
the ongoing economic storm.
What are the key elements of the 
strategy for 2013 and the future?
There is no change to the group strategy for 2013 – 
security is at the core of our offer and, although we may 
move into related services in speciﬁc markets should 
opportunities take us there, we will remain true to our 
security heritage. 
We will continue to focus on developing long-term 
relationships with businesses and governments in 
countries and sectors where security and safety risks 
are considered a strategic threat and where we can help 
customers achieve their own strategic objectives.
With limited medium-term opportunities for growth 
in Continental Europe, we will continue to look to 
developing markets for enhanced growth opportunities 
and to build on our market-leading positions in many of 
these markets. We will aim to export the knowledge and 
expertise which we have in more developed markets to 
these higher growth regions. 
We will drive secure solutions and cash solutions markets 
through the various phases of development to encourage 
greater outsourcing and focus our attention on larger, 
more complex bids for new business. We will also focus 
on effectively managing any risks associated with these 
contracts by implementing enhanced contract risk 
management and assessment processes.
We will maintain our focus on service excellence, 
on retaining and growing our business with existing 
customers and winning new business across a wide range 
of markets and sectors. Our sector-focused strategy in 
areas where security and safety are of vital importance is 
a key differentiator for us and it has proved successful in 
the last 12 months. We will continue to focus our skills in 
enhanced risk management and safety and security in key 
sectors such as ports and maritime, aviation, oil and gas, 
and mining industries.
We are constantly looking to develop and refresh our 
talent pipeline and we will continue to do this in the 
coming year through the development of our people 
to build their skills, knowledge and behaviours and to 
ensure that we have robust succession plans in place for 
the key roles across the group. G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  11
Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
How do mergers and acquisitions ﬁt 
into your future strategy?
Acquisitions continue to be an important part of the 
strategy, particularly in developing markets where we can 
either improve our market share or where an acquisition 
can act as a catalyst to drive outsourcing opportunities. 
Overall, we expect to spend around £200m on 
acquisitions each year.
We believe there are substantial growth opportunities in 
these markets and we are targeting 50% of our revenues 
to come from developing markets by 2019. 
We will also continue to be more active in terms of 
divestments where a service line is not core to the group, 
where a business could result in material reputational 
damage to the group or it is unable to reach the group 
minimum targets within a set period of time under our 
ownership or where an alternative parent could add or 
derive more value from a business. 
What targets or goals are you 
setting for 2013?
Overall, our key business objectives for 2013 are to drive 
organic growth, deliver margin improvement, optimise 
our organisational development and to build and protect 
our reputation.
More speciﬁcally, we will focus on continuing to improve 
our organic growth performance through customer 
service, contract retention and expansion and through 
winning new business in key target areas. 
We are aiming to increase the proportion of our revenues 
generated in developing markets with a six-year target 
of 50% of the group total as key security markets such as 
Brazil and China open up to foreign investment and where 
we can import our expertise from more developed 
markets in order to raise standards, deliver operational 
best practice and help our customers to achieve their own 
strategic objectives.
We will maintain our discipline on margins through good 
cost control and sharing of operational best practice as 
the service excellence centres continue to gain further 
traction across the operation and as we keep the cost 
base under constant review. 
We will aim to upgrade our approach to contract risk 
management through the development of new processes 
for monitoring major contracts and increasing board 
and senior management visibility of contract issues. 
The addition of a new chief operating officer to the Group 
Executive team will be a key element of this focus. 
We are targeting strong EPS growth and believe we can 
deliver that as a result of structural growth trends in 
the security industry and outsourcing trends, our strong 
developing markets presence and continued focus on 
margins and cash generation and are maintaining our 
overall target of generating at least 85% of PBITA as cash 
during the year.
How would you summarise the 
outlook for the group?
Despite the disappointment of the Olympics contract 
in 2012, the underlying trading across the majority of 
the group remains strong. The economic pressure is 
continuing to be challenging in Continental Europe. 
However, I am conﬁdent about the prospects for the 
group in 2013 based on our market leading businesses, 
broad customer base and contract pipeline. We continue 
to see good opportunities from outsourcing in key sectors 
such as government, ﬁnancial institutions, aviation, oil 
and gas, mining and ports. The breadth of our portfolio 
in over 125 countries continues to present many new 
growth opportunities.
Nick Buckles
Chief executive officer
Drive 
organic 
growth
Optimise
organisational
development
Deliver 
margin 
improvement
Build and 
protect 
reputation
Find out more on pages 21 to 29
Key Business Objectives:
