 4 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
Chief Executive Offi cer’s review
Focused on sustainable, 
profi table growth
Ashley Almanza
Group Chief Executive Offi cer
A YEAR OF CHANGE
I was delighted to join G4S in May 2013 and to take up the role of 
group CEO in June. In my fi rst few months, I travelled around the group, 
meeting senior managers and colleagues working in different regions 
and at many levels in our organisation and I also had the opportunity 
to visit some of our operations and customers. This confi rmed my view 
that G4S has considerable unrealised potential.
In order to address that potential in a focused and disciplined way, 
we conducted a strategy and business review, evaluating our position 
and prospects in each of our key markets around the world. While the 
review confi rmed the strength of our global market positions, it also 
identifi ed the need for wide ranging changes which, over time, we 
expect to transform the group’s ability to deliver sustainable, 
profi table growth.
“ This has been an extremely challenging year for G4S. 
We have taken clear action to address long-standing 
issues and have introduced wide-ranging changes 
to strengthen our business. We can now look to the 
future with increasing confi dence, focusing on the 
growing demand for G4S services that underpins 
our plans to deliver sustainable, profi table growth.” Strategic report
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 5 
GROUP STRATEGY
G4S is the world’s leading global, integrated security company, 
specialising in the provision of security products, services and solutions 
to customers across six continents.
Our strategy is market led – everything begins with the customer. 
We seek to understand our customers’ strategic and commercial 
objectives and from there we design and deliver solutions which 
support those objectives. Our aim is simple and clear; it is to create 
sustainable shareholder value through the consistent delivery of 
excellence in three areas: customer service, operational performance 
and fi nancial management.
As noted above, the strategic review we conducted in 2013 identifi ed 
the need for wide-ranging changes which we have captured in the 
form of a number of strategic priorities. I’m pleased to report that 
progress has been made in each of these areas:
Strategic focus and portfolio management
At the start of the year we were operating in more than 125 countries 
with several lines of business in each country. By assessing the strategic 
fi t, performance and prospects of each of these businesses, we 
identifi ed 35 businesses which required action to be taken to realise full 
value for shareholders, through turn-around, restructuring or disposal. 
As a result, we are actively managing the group’s portfolio, divesting a 
number of non-core businesses, and have generated cash proceeds of 
£124 million to date. Our work in this area continues and, subject to 
value accretive terms being achieved, we may make further disposals.
Organic investment
Our review concluded that we were under-investing in organic 
growth and technology and innovation. The group is now investing an 
additional £15 to £20 million in 2014 to strengthen sales and business 
development capability and to extend our technology and innovation 
across the group – both important catalysts for future growth.
Balance sheet fl exibility
Given the scale and quality of our organic growth opportunity and the 
level of net debt at the start of the year, we raised £343 million through 
the successful placing of 140.9 million new shares. 
Capital discipline and Risk management
The group’s capital allocation and contract review processes have been 
strengthened to ensure that all investment opportunities compete for 
capital in a single ‘pool’ and are evaluated against a stringent set of 
economic and risk criteria.
People
Our review identifi ed the need to strengthen our resource and 
capability in a number of key areas of the business. Over the past nine 
months, we have signifi cantly strengthened our senior management, 
with 28 new appointments to the global leadership team. 
Group values
Our group values underpin the reputation and long-term value of the 
group. We have updated and reinforced awareness and understanding 
of our group values to ensure that we conduct our business to the 
highest standards. We are enhancing health and safety across the group 
by standardising safety management systems and embedding health and 
safety objectives in individual performance contracts. 
Competitive strengths
Our review concluded that our competitive position needed to be 
strengthened in a number of key markets. During the second half of 
the year we established major restructuring programmes, with detailed 
plans to invest £68 million over 2013 and 2014 and these are now 
being implemented. We expect the economic, fi nancial and 
performance benefi ts to be realised over the next 12 to 36 months.
Cost leadership
We recognised the growing importance of cost leadership and 
following systematic benchmarking we established a number of 
effi ciency programmes. These include focus on direct labour effi ciency, 
organisational effi ciency, vehicle route planning and telematics, IT 
standardisation, procurement and shared services.
Performance management
We re-defi ned our performance measures and incentives, putting in 
place measures and performance management processes which focus 
on customers’ needs, sustainable profi t and cash fl ow. I believe this 
provides clear and strong alignment between management priorities 
and shareholder value.
While we still have much to do, I have been enormously encouraged by 
the positive engagement from colleagues across the group who have 
embraced these changes and demonstrated extraordinary commitment 
to our customers and to G4S. I’m grateful for their skill and dedication, 
which remain critical to our success.
STRATEGIC EXECUTION
T o see in more detail how we plan to deliver our focused 
strategy to deliver sustainable, profi table growth please 
see pages 8 to 27.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 17 
Strategic report
WELFARE TO WORK
T o date, G4S Welfare to Work has helped 35,077 
long-term unemployed people in the UK into jobs. 
We estimate this has saved the UK tax payer more 
than £120 million per annum. The vast majority 
of people that we have assisted had been out of 
work for at least nine months, with many having 
been out of work for a number of years.
16 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
Strategic execution
People and values
AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY 
Africa
Asia & Middle East
Latin America
Europe
North America
UK & Ireland
G4S employees by region as at end Dec 2013.
19
43
11
12
9
6
G4S HAS A DEDICATED WORKFORCE OF OVER 
618,000 EMPLOYEES AROUND THE WORLD (%)
Our culture is defi ned by our values, beliefs and behaviours. 
We seek to embed our values in all aspects of our operations 
and they form part of our recruitment, development and 
review processes. Managers and employees are encouraged 
and expected to behave in line with the group’s values and to 
speak up when witnessing behaviour which does not meet 
our standards.
OUR GROUP VALUES: SUPPORTING 
OUR STRATEGY
Customer focus – We have close, open relationships with 
our customers which generate trust and we work in 
partnership for the mutual benefi t of our organisations.
Best people – We employ the best people, develop their 
competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live 
our values.
Integrity – We can always be trusted to do the right thing.
Expertise – We develop and demonstrate our expertise 
through our innovative approach to creating and delivering 
the right solution.
Performance – We seek to improve performance year on year 
to create long-term sustainability.
T eamwork and collaboration – We collaborate for the benefi t 
of our customers and G4S.
Safety fi rst – We prioritise safety management to protect the 
health and well-being of our colleagues and those around us.
In 2014, we have introduced a new value to focus specifi cally 
on the safety of our colleagues and those around us. This is 
supported by a number of key safety initiatives and campaigns 
designed to increase awareness of health and safety matters, 
learn from best practice and prevent health and safety incidents.
See pages 44 and 45 for further information on health and 
safety initiatives.
