 2 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 
Chairman’s statement
Putting strong foundations 
in place
John Connolly
Chairman
“ This is my second chairman’s statement in a G4S 
annual report and it is fair to say that it marks the 
completion of a year no less challenging than my 
fi rst. 2013 was a year during which the group 
underwent a great deal of change, at both board 
and senior management level, and also in some 
of the ways we conduct our business.”
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
8.96p
(2012: 8.96p)
A YEAR OF CHANGE
2013 was always going to be a year of change. Some board changes 
involving executive and non-executive directors had been planned 
and the foundations for those changes had been laid in 2012. 
Nick Buckles, who had been chief executive of the group since 2005, 
stepped down as CEO in May. He was succeeded by Ashley Almanza, 
a high quality, respected executive with extensive international business 
experience, who became group CEO  on 1 June 2013. Mr Almanza had 
joined the group earlier in the year as CFO following the retirement of 
Trevor Dighton from that role.
In May, the UK Ministry of Justice (“MoJ”) announced concerns in 
relation to billing practices on our electronic monitoring contracts in 
England and Wales and commenced a review of all MoJ contracts held 
by G4S. At the same time, the Cabinet Offi ce initiated a review of all 
our major UK Government contracts – the Cross Government Review. 
In response to the concerns raised by the MoJ, we appointed an 
independent law fi rm and external accountants to look into the matter 
on behalf of the board. We also co-operated with the MoJ and Cabinet 
Offi ce reviews. Both the MoJ review and the Cabinet Offi ce review 
have now been completed and we reached settlement of claims raised 
in relation to electronic monitoring and two other contracts in England. Strategic report
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 3 
The UK Government is one of the group’s largest customers and so 
repairing the relationship and rebuilding our reputation, particularly in 
the UK market, has rightly been at the forefront of the work of the 
executive team and of the board. This will take time and forms part 
of a wider transformation plan launched by the group CEO, which 
includes organisational and process changes designed to strengthen 
customer focus, governance and contract management and control. 
This transformation process is something which the UK Government 
has been keen to see, but it is important to stress that it is something 
which was already in progress and not just in the UK. 
SO WHAT CHANGED IN 2013?
We welcomed fi ve new members to the board during the year. 
Three of them are non-executive directors: Adam Crozier and Paul 
Spence, who joined the board in January, and Tim Weller, who joined 
in April; whilst Bo Lerenius and Lord Condon retired from the board 
in June. There were also changes to the executive board members. In 
addition to Nick Buckles' departure in May, Trevor Dighton stood down 
as CFO at the end of April and left the board in June. Ashley Almanza 
joined on 1 May as CFO before taking on the role of chief executive 
offi cer from 1 June. Himanshu Raja was appointed CFO in October. 
In a fairly short space of time the make-up of the board has changed 
signifi cantly, so it has been important to ensure that it retains the right 
combination of knowledge of the group as well as expertise which is 
relevant to the business. I believe we have a board which is diverse in 
composition and well suited to the task; covering a broad spectrum in 
terms of professional background, experience, nationality and gender.
As announced previously, we undertook a thorough review of the 
group’s risk management function and systems in the fi rst half of 2013. 
The Risk Committee reviewed the fi ndings of the review, and 
implemented a number of recommendations. The Risk Committee 
was constituted as a full board committee in 2013 to strengthen 
support to the board in discharging its responsibilities regarding the 
maintenance of a framework of effective controls to enable risk to be 
assessed and managed. The review process also led to important 
changes to the risk function and the implementation of a new risk 
management framework described in more detail on pages 36 to 41 
of the Strategic Report. In addition, the Risk Committee reviews and 
reports to the board on the risk aspects of major developments that 
affect the group and major contracts which the group enters into. 
As reported in the CEO’s review, we have embarked upon a group-
wide transformation responding to the signifi cant issues identifi ed over 
the last 18 months as the new executive team set the business on 
track for future profi table growth. This plan has embraced a bottom 
up business and strategy review bringing in a wide range of new 
senior executives in key roles, restructuring a number of businesses, 
a portfolio review of the group’s businesses and a comprehensive 
review of fi nancials and fi nancial disciplines. Importantly the board 
approved management’s extensive proposals for new processes 
and disciplines emphasising our key values around customer focus 
and integrity. This part of the transformation along with the above 
mentioned emphasis on risk management will contribute to meeting 
the requirements of our key UK customer, UK Government, around 
corporate renewal.
We have taken on board the lessons we have learned from the 
challenges of 2013 and a great deal of effort continues to be focused 
on ensuring that we have the right people and the appropriate 
systems and processes in place to ensure the group’s long-term success. 
I believe we are on the right track.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The group operates in many parts of the world and continues to 
provide critical services to thousands of customers to the highest 
standards. This underlying strength of the business was refl ected in 
the company’s performance for 2013. Underlying revenue growth of 
5.8% was underpinned by 16% growth in emerging markets. 
Cash generated by continuing operations increased by 36%. 
T o strengthen the group's fi nancial position, we raised approximately 
£343 million net via a placing of new shares in August. T ogether with a 
disposals programme which has, to date, generated £124 million, and 
a strong focus on cash fl ow management, this will enable us to reduce 
our debt and to invest in sustainable, profi table growth.
We have a clear strategic plan and the board believes that the 
business has signifi cant growth opportunities and positive prospects. 
The directors therefore propose a fi nal dividend of 5.54p (DKK 0.4954) 
per share, payable on 13 June 2014. With an interim dividend of 3.42p 
(DKK 0.2972) per share paid on 18 October 2013, the total dividend 
for the year will amount to 8.96p per share, the same as for 2012.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank the 618,000 employees 
who make up the group for their hard work and dedication in 2013 
and their focus on doing what they do well. It is with confi dence that 
I look forward to capturing the value in 2014 of all the groundwork 
that has been done in 2013.
John Connolly
Chairman
Cash solutions
Secure solutions
Care & Justice services
16
75
9
REVENUE BY BUSINESS SERVICE (%)
