 8 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Chairman’s statement
“ As I reported last year, G4S has embarked on  
a group-wide transformation with a strengthened 
management team and a clear strategic plan.  
In 2014 that plan was put into action and the 
board has been pleased with the clear progress 
made in all areas of the business, including financial 
performance. This provides strong foundations  
for further progress in 2015 and beyond.”
Building on  
strong foundations
A year of progress
During the second half of 2013 the new management 
team developed a strategic plan which envisaged  
a group-wide transformation programme and extensive 
proposals to implement new processes and disciplines, 
emphasising our key values of customer service  
and integrity. 
The board approved the new strategic plan in 2013 and 
in 2014 the board devoted considerable time to assessing 
the implementation and effectiveness of that plan.
I am delighted to report that, over the course of 2014, 
the group has moved forward across a broad front  
as management has made excellent progress executing 
the group’s strategic plan with great skill and energy.  
The board has been particularly pleased with the 
progress made in strengthening the global leadership 
team, reinforcing the group’s values, investing in organic 
growth, customer service and operational efficiency. 
Management also successfully supplemented the group’s 
portfolio management programme and strengthened  
risk management. 
In March the company reached a settlement with the  
UK Government in relation to historical billing issues  
and management developed and began implementing  
a fundamental programme of corporate renewal.   
This focused on strengthening the culture and control 
processes in our UK Government business. 
As noted above, the group’s transformation programme 
extends well beyond our UK Government business and  
is being implemented on a group-wide basis. The board 
has been pleased with the progress made to date and  
will continue to monitor management’s implementation 
of the programme during 2015.
The Board
In 2015, we will be making a number of changes to  
the membership of the board. Mark Seligman has now 
served on the board for nine years and, in line with  
UK corporate governance guidelines, will retire from  
the board after the 2015 AGM. Mark has made a 
significant contribution board during a period of great 
change and I am very grateful for all that he has done. 
In preparation for his retirement from the board,  
Mark handed over the chairmanship of the Audit 
Committee to Tim Weller, a serving CFO with 
considerable financial and business skills and experience.
Mark remained on the Audit Committee until the end  
of 2014 to ensure a smooth handover and to assist with 
the tender process for the role of the company’s external 
auditor. That process resulted in a clear recommendation 
from the Audit Committee, fully endorsed by the board, 
that shareholders approve the appointment of PwC as 
the company’s external auditor for 2015.
John Connolly
Chairman
Dividend per share
9.24p
(2013: 8.96p) Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 9 
Strategic report
Grahame Gibson will stand down from the board at  
the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and retire from the 
group in October 2015. Grahame is the longest serving 
member of our board, having been appointed in 2005, 
and he has been a senior executive of the G4S group  
and its predecessors since 1983. I would like to record 
the board’s gratitude to Grahame for the enormous 
contribution he has made to the group. The board 
extends its best wishes to Grahame and his family in  
his retirement.
The Nomination Committee has commenced a process 
to recruit a new non-executive director and I expect  
that process to be completed during the first half of 2015. 
With the new non-executive director in place, I believe 
we will have a board which retains a good knowledge  
of the group and its businesses whilst also having the 
broad spectrum of skills, experience and background 
appropriate for this company and the strategy it is 
pursuing. It also has a suitably diverse composition  
in terms of nationality and gender, which is important in 
any business, but particularly so in one which is as large 
and geographically and culturally diverse as G4S. In 2015 
the board will continue with a programme of regular 
engagements with management teams from across the 
group, which enables the non-executive directors to 
broaden and deepen their knowledge of the group  
and its strategy, management and operations.
Financial performance 
The progress made in 2014 was reflected in the  
group’s financial performance.
Organic growth was 3.9% overall and 9% in emerging 
markets. That growth, combined with the success of 
restructuring and efficiency programmes, saw underlying 
profit increase by 8%, underlying earnings increase  
by 12% and cash generated by operating businesses 
increase from £420 million to £526 million.
The board has confidence in the group’s performance 
and prospects and the directors propose an increase of 
5% in the final dividend which is payable on 12 June 2015. 
With an interim dividend of 3.42p (DKK 0.3198)  
per share paid on 17 October 2014 and a final dividend 
of 5.82p (DKK 0.6041) per share, the total dividend  
for the year will amount to 9.24p per share  
(2013: 8.96p per share).
The progress which has been made in 2014 was  
the result of a great deal of hard work by the group’s 
management and 623,000 employees, many of whom 
work in challenging circumstances. They provide vital 
services for the group’s customers around the world  
and I would like to express my appreciation for their 
continuing dedication.
John Connolly
Chairman
UK & Ireland
23%
North America
20% 
Revenue by region (%) 
Africa 
7%
Asia Middle East 
19%
Latin America
10%
Europe
21%
