 10 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
“ In 2013 we established a new strategic plan to 
transform G4S and deliver sustainable, profitable 
growth. In 2014, the group made good progress 
executing this strategic plan and I am pleased  
to report a 12% increase in underlying earnings  
(to £210 million) and a 25% increase in cash flow 
from operating businesses (to £526 million).  
The group’s performance and prospects are  
reflected in the directors recommendation to 
increase the final dividend by 5% to 5.82 pence  
per share. Much remains to be done to realise  
the full potential of our strategy.”
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Delivering sustainable 
profitable growth
Ashley Almanza
Group Chief Executive Officer
2014 review
Our strategic plan combines cultural transformation with 
sustained investments in organic growth and productivity 
improvements, together with active portfolio 
management and disciplined financial and risk 
management. I’m pleased to report that we made good 
progress in all of these areas during 2014.
Our markets
As the world’s leading global integrated security  
company, our mission is to create sustainable value  
for our customers and shareholders by being the  
supply partner of choice in all of our markets.
Independent studies indicate that global demand  
for security is expected to grow at a compound  
average rate of 7% per annum between 2013 and 2023, 
reaching c.£210 billion in annual revenues by 2023.  
The main drivers of industry growth are diverse and include: 
the economic environment and GDP growth; 
infrastructure investment; levels of conflict and crime; 
customer attitudes to risk and focus on security; customer 
efficiency and outsourcing objectives; regulation and the 
regulatory environment; technological change and 
innovation; interest rates and the role and policies  
of central banks influence the cash handling industry.
Through its unique market positions, G4S has  
attractive exposure to the growing demand in global 
security markets. We also have a diverse and proven 
range of services and the expertise to address this 
organic growth potential.
Investing in organic growth
In 2014 we took action to strengthen our sales capability, 
customer relationships and customer service. We invested 
in strategic account management and also implemented  
a systematic approach to measuring and monitoring 
customer satisfaction.
We continued to invest in service and product innovation 
and strengthened our sales operations and our sales 
capacity. These investments have begun to improve our 
pipeline management and in 2014 we won new contracts 
with a total value of £2.1 billion. 
In 2014, we achieved revenue growth of 8.9% in our 
emerging market businesses and 6.9% in our North 
American businesses. As expected, revenues in our UK & 
Ireland and Europe regions declined by 1%, reflecting the 
end of the Electronic Monitoring contract in the UK and 
the end of the prison service contract in the Netherlands.
Our People
It is essential for the successful and sustainable growth  
of our business that we attract, retain, develop and 
incentivise the best people in our industry.
During 2014 we made a number of key appointments to 
the Group Executive Committee (GEC). Peter Neden has 
been appointed to the role of Regional President, UK & 
Ireland. Peter is a proven service industry executive, covering 
both commercial and government sectors in the UK. 
John Kenning joined us in the role of Regional CEO, 
North America and Technology, succeeding Grahame 
Gibson who retires this year. John has a successful track 
record in sales and security technology.  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 11 
Strategic report
In July this year Jenni Myles will take up the role of group 
HR Director, succeeding Irene Cowden who retires in June. 
Jenni has held a number of senior HR positions at G4S 
including HR Director for our North American and Latin 
American businesses. Jenni brings a deep knowledge of our 
industry and company combined with a track record of 
leading and supporting large organisational change 
programmes. Grahame and Irene have each made an 
enormous and valuable contribution to G4S and they leave 
with our profound thanks and best wishes. 
Mel Brooks was promoted to Group Strategy  
& Commercial Director after successfully managing our  
large Indian business. Mel brings security and technology 
expertise from a variety of senior leadership roles he  
has held both in G4S and in the defence industry.
Beyond the GEC, we continued to invest heavily in 
refreshing and strengthening our senior management team. 
Since spring 2013 we have made 114 senior appointments 
to our senior leadership cadre of 220 executives, 
comprising 64 external hires and 50 internal promotions. 
The new appointments cover key positions in general 
management, sales, business development, operations, 
technology, procurement, IT, finance and risk management. 
All of these changes have been designed to strengthen  
our organisation and support the group-wide 
transformation of G4S.
Our global leadership development programme was 
re-launched in 2014. We are also simplifying and  
reinforcing succession and development planning to ensure 
that our leaders of tomorrow are identified and given the 
appropriate opportunities to develop early in their careers. 
Our investment in training and development permeates 
the entire organisation and is nowhere more important 
than in customer-facing roles.
I would like to thank the more than 623,000 colleagues 
across the world whose skill, energy and dedication to  
our customers and our company is reflected in the 
progress made by G4S in 2014.
Our Values 
During 2014, we updated and re-launched our group 
values and mounted an awareness and training programme 
to ensure that G4S managers and employees understand 
how to put our group values into practice in everyday 
business activities. T o support and reinforce this 
programme we have updated and re-launched our 
whistleblowing policy and compliance monitoring  
now comes under the formal oversight of our group 
general counsel. 
We established “Safety first” as a new group value and all 
senior executives completed mandatory safety leadership 
training which we are extending across the group in 2015. 
We established the new position of Group Head of  
Health and Safety and appointed an experienced safety 
professional to this role. Whilst we have been successful  
in raising safety awareness and strengthening our resources 
and systems, we remain fundamentally dissatisfied with our 
overall safety performance. I deeply regret to report that  
in 2014, 41 of our colleagues lost their lives in work-related 
incidents (2013: 49 work-related fatalities), including 14 
colleagues who died in attack-related incidents, protecting 
our customers and their property. 
Work-related fatalities have a devastating impact on 
families and colleagues at G4S and they motivate us to put 
Safety First. Zero harm remains our goal and each and 
every member of the global leadership team is committed 
to this goal. In 2014, we also established a UK corporate 
renewal plan and made good progress in implementing the 
plan. Implementation of this plan remains a priority in 2015.
Productivity
Over the past 18 months we have established a number  
of important programmes to improve the productivity of 
G4S. Given the scale and current stage of organisational 
maturity of G4S, these programmes address a material 
opportunity to improve our performance and create 
shareholder value. Our restructuring and organisational 
efficiency programmes made good progress in 2014 and 
we believe there are further opportunities to implement 
lean processes and more efficient organisation structures. 
Any new programmes will be subject to stringent financial, 
economic and operational criteria.
Our operational reliability and efficiency programmes 
broadly fall into two categories. Firstly, direct labour 
efficiency, which aims to ensure we deploy the correct 
service at the right time, thereby helping to improve 
customer service and reduce costs (see page 27).  
Secondly, route planning and telematics, which seeks  
to reduce vehicle and crew requirements and to reduce 
fuel and maintenance costs whilst simultaneously  
improving driver safety (see page 27).
In 2014, we established the new position of Chief 
Procurement Officer and recruited an experienced 
procurement leader and team. We aim to achieve 
Our values at work – an integrated reporting framework
Our corporate values influence every aspect of  
our culture and day-to-day business activity, and  
we recognise that CSR strategies are best achieved 
when integrated into business practices. It is with  
that in mind that our CSR strategies and priorities  
are developed in conjunction with our operational 
businesses and help to improve the way we work  
and our approach to doing business. Our priority 
areas are business ethics and anti-bribery and 
corruption, health and safety, and human rights.   
T o better reflect the focus which our values  
have within our organisation and the importance  
we place upon ethics and sustainability, we have this 
year implemented an integrated CSR reporting 
framework which is led by our Annual Report  
and Accounts and supported by a CSR report  
and our website.  12 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Our strategic plan encompasses key programmes which address multiple sources of value.
Building capacity in our people
• Strengthened global leadership  
team – 114 appointments to top  
220 executive roles (50 internal,  
64 external)
• Re-launched leadership programmes
Re-focusing our values
• Greater emphasis on Health  
and Safety (Safety first)
• Employee communications and 
training to reinforce group values
• Enhanced whistleblowing and  
case management
Managing risk
• Investment in improved  
risk management
Enhancing our  
performance management
• Increased rigour in our  
performance contracts
• Aligned incentives with values  
and performance
Investing in organisational efficiency
De-layering our organisation 
• Shorter lines of communication, 
reduced costs and increased time 
focused on customers
Globalising key functions
• Improve consistency, efficiency and 
effectiveness of our support functions
Creating shared service centres  
for back office functions
• Leverage scale of organisation  
and standardise processes
• Implemented first phase in finance  
in UK in 2014
• US shared service centre in 2015
IT transformation 
• Progressive, disciplined change 
programme to improve efficiency  
and consistency in IT infrastructure, 
development and operations
Strengthening organic sales and 
business development capability  
– invested additional c£20m 
• Appointed new sales leaders across  
the group
• Investment in sector and  
technology specialists
• Appointed 385 additional new hires 
into sales and business development 
roles in the past 21 months
Improving sales operations
• More proactive management of  
sales pipeline
• Investing in customer relationship  
and global account management
• Better alignment of sales incentives  
with customer satisfaction
• Extending proven services from one 
market to another
Delivering value through our key programmes
1. T ransform our 
culture through  
our people and 
values (p14) 
2. Invest in organic 
growth, customer 
service and 
operational 
excellence (p20)
3. Make our  
organisation more  
productive (p24)
procurement efficiencies by using our global scale to 
consolidate supply chain management and secure  
better terms of business. We are also beginning to  
improve visibility, understanding and control of our 
buying behaviours to improve efficiency.
Last year we completed the first phase of our UK 
shared service centre to standardise key processes and 
reduce the cost of functional support. In 2015 we will 
extend the scope of shared services performed at our 
UK centre and we will consolidate our North American 
back office. We have begun to assess the feasibility of 
applying our shared service model in other regions.
We are undertaking a disciplined and progressive  
IT transformation programme. During 2014, we focused 
on building our IT leadership and development 
capability. We currently spend around £180 million  
on IT services and we are now progressively employing 
IT service management models to improve consistency 
and efficiency in IT infrastructure, development  
and operations.
Active Portfolio Management
During 2014 we continued to apply the  
structured approach to portfolio management  
which we established in 2013. Since the inception  
of this management discipline we have completed the 
divestment of eight businesses at attractive exit 
multiples, generating aggregate proceeds of £248 million 
and an aggregate profit on disposal of £92 million.  
Businesses sold previously contributed revenue of over 
£700 million at an average net margin of 2.8%, well 
below the group average. We also discontinued a 
further 22 businesses. Portfolio management remains an 
important discipline in ensuring that we maintain 
strategic focus, capital discipline and effective financial 
performance across the group.  Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 13 
Strategic report
Disciplined risk and financial management
During 2014 we established an enterprise risk 
management system based on the “three lines of 
defence” model. As noted above we have invested 
heavily in strengthening our senior leadership teams  
and reinforcing our group values, both of which are 
important components of our risk and financial 
management systems. We also strengthened our 
contract risk management processes and made 
significant investments in financial control resources  
and audit and assurance capacity. 
The importance of contract risk management  
was highlighted again last year with the £116 million 
settlement of the electronic monitoring contract  
and a further charge to profits of £45 million relating  
to provisions on legacy UK contracts.
Outlook
G4S’ strategy and plan address a positive,  
long term demand outlook for our core services  
and seek to deliver sustainable, profitable growth.
We are making good progress with the implementation 
of our strategic plan and this was reflected in the 
group’s commercial, operational and financial 
performance in 2014. The group’s performance  
and prospects are also reflected in the directors’ 
recommendation to increase the final dividend by 5%. 
There remains much to be done to realise the full 
potential of our strategy and we expect to make  
further progress in 2015.
Ashley Almanza
Group Chief Executive Officer
Our strategic plan encompasses key programmes which address multiple sources of value.
Soundly financed
• Investment grade credit rating  
and £998m of unutilised credit facilities
Global capex rationing – central 
pool of capital 
• Investment hurdle rate 10% post  
tax IRR
• Rebalance investment towards  
organic growth
Improve sustainable free cash  
flow and working capital 
management 
• Implementing a  
“cash matters” culture
Strong focus on financial 
stewardship
• Strengthened capability and  
capacity in audit, risk and  
financial management
• Strengthened contract  
review process
Reviewed 56 under performing  
or immaterial businesses in 2014
• Eight businesses sold in 2014 including 
US Government Solutions
 – raised gross proceeds of £177m  
in 2014 and gross proceeds £248m  
since 2013
• 20 discontinued; 22 under review and 
14 to be retained with performance 
improvement plans
• Businesses sold had revenue of more 
than £700m and an average net margin 
of 2.8%
4. Actively manage 
our portfolio and 
performance (p30)
5. Embed 
disciplined  
financial and risk 
management (p32)
Investing in operational excellence  
– accelerated best practice (ABP)
Direct labour efficiency 
• Uses subject matter experts working with 
local line managers to deploy the correct  
service at the right time, improving  
customer service and reducing costs
• Multi-year programme covering 39 
businesses and 376,000 employees  
in the first phase
T elematics and route scheduling  
programmes for our fleet
• T elematics
 – reduces fuel and maintenance  
costs; improves driver safety
 – In 4,500 vehicles at the end of 2014
• Route scheduling 
 – fewer vehicles and efficient crew 
requirements leading to improved 
customer service 
 – 7,000 vehicles to be covered by  
end of 2015
New global procurement programme 
• Baseline study identified addressable 
spend of £1.3bn (70% in eight categories) 
– material opportunities to reduce costs
• Negotiating with a number of key 
suppliers with the first global 
procurement deals signed
• Leveraging our scale
3. Make our  
organisation more  
productive (p24)
