 16
01 STRATEGIC REPORT 
Stra tegy & BuSineSS review
The Group’s key event for 2014 was undoubtedly our 
successful IPO debut on AIM on 12 May 2014. This 
is a momentous event for the Group, all our staff, 
shareholders, customers and partners alike after an 
almost 10-year build-up of the business from 2005. The 
IPO injected much needed new energy and direction 
for the Group. It also brought in enhanced corporate 
governance and strengthened management and enabled 
the Group to nearly double its staff headcount from a year 
ago. All these have resulted in the Group’s much stronger 
position in Asia, our home turf, and are shown in the new 
markets and customers we have added, new products 
and services we have developed and launched and the 
completion of our first acquisition following our IPO. 
Through our newly launched CLOTA platform and 
Ticketing IT Outsourcing (“TiTo”) engagement model, 
we have ventured beyond our traditional project sales 
revenue model and into the transformational strategy 
we have spoken about since our IPO. We expect to pivot 
more on the available mobile and internet infrastructures 
to refine and accelerate both our Business to Business to 
Consumer (“B2B2C”) and Business to Consumer (“B2C”) 
business models and strategies. In time to come, we seek 
to correlate our growth more directly with the numbers of 
visitors to the parks whilst continuing to build our market 
share in the number of parks using our technology and 
solutions. 
Following on from the acquisition of Galasys GL T in 
2013, we made a small acquisition in 2014. Galasys GL T’s 
integration has been successful and we look forward to 
seeing more synergies being realised in the coming years. 
Since inception, Galasys has undertaken and successfully 
integrated three acquisitions and M&A continues to be an 
CHAIRMAN’S
ST A TEMENT
integral part of the Group’s strategy to accelerate growth 
and stay abreast of trends and innovations. We continue 
to be on the lookout for other potential businesses that 
could complement us and accelerate our growth plan.
The Galasys team has been busy since IPO implementing 
this strategy and I am pleased that the efforts are reflected 
in the Group’s full year results for 2014, which have shown 
significant improvements compared to 2013 and which 
have exceeded expectations. 
ProSPectS
The Group is in an important phase of our technology 
and product development and 2015 will see the 
continuing efforts to enhance the existing core ticketing 
platform and its associated modules including mobile 
apps and solutions. We expect more exciting product 
development and launches during the course of the year 
and to see more financial contribution arising from the 
commercialization of products and services launched in 
2014. In particular, as part of the transformational growth 
plan, we will develop and launch more products and 
services that will be mobile and internet based so that our 
revenue base is broadened and to enable us to reach out 
more directly to the park visitors.
As a testament to the reliability and quality of our 
products and services, we have not lost any clients in 
the last 3 years and continue to secure new and highly 
reputable ones, such as the Dalian Wanda Group from 
China and the Enchanted Kingdom from the Philippines.   
Our strategy of introducing different engagement and 
therefore, revenue models has borne fruit as we have, 
through the TiTo model, successfully secured more clients 
of different sizes, some of whom we would not have been  17
01 STRATEGIC REPORT 
in a position to engage before our IPO. A number of the engagements under the TiTo model have 
given us significantly higher gross margins. We will continue to pursue this strategy of customer 
engagement to penetrate further into different segments of the ticketing industry including the 
broader sub-segment of leisure and entertainment.
In terms of marketing and business development, the Group has invested and increased the size 
and capability of the sales and marketing team and the additional resources available are being 
successfully deployed in reaching out to new business prospects in the whole of Asia. 
We expect to maintain the positive trends in the business in the coming financial year as we 
deliver on our long term strategic objective of transforming our current project based business and 
revenue model into one which correlates our revenue and profits more directly to the number of 
visitors to our theme-park customers. 
d ividend
As a result of the positive growth achieved both organically and through acquisition, the Board 
intends to bring forward its plans to implement a progressive dividend policy by proposing a 
maiden dividend for 2014, whilst recognising the need for Galasys to continue investing in its 
expansion and product development plans throughout 2015 and beyond. Consequently, the 
Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.084sen, c. 0.2 pence per share subject to shareholder 
approval at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The final dividend will be payable on 3 July 
2015 to shareholders on the register on 5 June 2015.
aPPrecia tion
On behalf of the Board I would like to express my deep appreciation to the management and 
staff for their dedication and hard work for the past year and congratulate them on the successful 
completion of our IPO. Last but not least, I would also like to thank our investors, shareholders, 
customers and partners for their strong support and patience throughout the year and we look 
forward to working cohesively with each and every one of you in the months to come.
Kim Seng Teh
Non-Executive Chairman
15 April 2015
 
