 18
01 STRATEGIC REPORT 
I am very pleased to provide my first full year review since the Group joined AIM on 12 May 2014.
reSul tS
Galasys has delivered a strong financial performance with revenues up 45% at RM38.62m (FY2013: 
RM26.7m^). We have seen continued growth in demand for our products and services from existing 
customers as well as successfully adding new large customers such as Dalian Wanda in China 
and Enchanted Kingdom in the Philippines. Our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortization (EBITDA) also saw significant improvement being up 48% at RM12.58m (FY2013: 
RM8.5m^) and this was reflected in both pre-tax profit being up 35% at RM11.34m (FY2013: 
RM8.38m^) and cash up to RM12.22m* (FY2013: RM2.16m^). The net proceeds from our successful 
IPO were RM10.50m. 
^The comparative figures for the 12 months to 31 December 2013 (refer to note 24) included above were on the basis that 
Galasys GL T (formally known as Green Laser Technology) was part of Galasys Group from 1 January 2013
*includes net proceeds from IPO of RM10.50m (£2.20m)
Market o verview
According to Global Attractions Attendance Report published by Themed Attraction Association 
and AECOM, the outlook for the theme park industry in Asia is very strong with annual growth in 
attendance numbers of 7.5% is almost double that in the Americas whilst zero growth is expected 
in Europe. The report also stated that attendance total for the top 15 Asian water-parks has, for the 
first time, surpassed attendance for the top 15 water-parks in North America. AECOM further predicts 
the total attendance for the top 20 Asia Pacific theme parks will also surpass those of North America 
in the not-too-distant future. Against this backdrop of high growth, we intend to continue building 
on our market leading position across Asia and have made good progress entering into new and 
emerging South East Asian markets such as the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia.
n ew w inS, ParkS and t i t o We are pleased with the number of new project wins throughout 2014. In particular, we are 
especially proud to have secured the first ever theme park related contract awarded by the Dalian 
Wanda Group in the face of keen international competition for this landmark deal. As reported 
in our interim results announcement, the Group has to-date signed up two key projects with the 
Dalian Wanda Group, namely Wuhan Movie Park and Wanda Indoor Kids’ Park. We believe there are 
many more contracts to come in the following years and will work closely with the Wanda team. 
Outside China, the Group has made significant progress by entering into new and emerging South 
East Asia markets. The Group secured contracts with the Enchanted Kingdom, which is the largest 
CHIEF ExECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S ST A TEMENT 19
01 STRATEGIC REPORT 
theme park in the Philippines. This contract was a direct 
replacement of the client’s existing solution provided 
by a European ticketing solutions provider and further 
validates the Group’s standing amidst its international 
competitors.
Whilst theme parks remain the core segment, the Group is 
making strides in diversifying into other segments within 
the leisure and entertainment industry. This is reflected in 
the contracts secured with museums, tourism and cultural 
centres. The Group has also added exciting sites such 
as Zoo Negara and the Sepang International Circuit in 
Malaysia as part of the portfolio of sites incorporated into 
the Group following the acquisition of iLogic. 
The four TiTo projects signed by the Group in 2014 are 
also significant as they mark the Group’s move toward 
the new revenue model, whereby the Group’s clients are 
engaged with a revenue model that brings both higher 
profit margins and a recurring revenue stream that is 
correlated more to ticket sales than the total number of 
installed sites.
clota
We are delighted to have completed this significant 
product development and taken an important step 
towards positioning Galasys in the heart of the online 
market segment. After nearly a year of intensive 
development by the R&D team, we are proud to add a 
key component to our product platform that offers a fully 
integrated B2B online sales and distribution network 
connecting online travel agencies with theme park 
operators and owners in Asia.
To-date, Galasys has signed up ten online travel agents 
(OTAs), including Beijing Qunar Software Technology 
(“Qunar”), Ctrip.com International Ltd (“Ctrip”), 
Shanghai Lvmama International Travel Agency Co. Ltd 
(“Lvmama”), Sichuan Brigade Butler Network Technology 
(“Lvxiaobao”), Tuniu Corporation (“Tuniu”) and Chengdu 
Chenyu Culture Communication Co., Ltd. These OTAs 
account for most of the online travel traffic in China with 
Ctrip alone commanding 54.2% of the market. 
 
There are nine theme parks which have signed up so far 
and are now fully integrated into CLOTA including Wugang 
Xianglong Valley Water Park, Gui Lin Yugui Park Universal 
theme park, Seven Colour Sand River Water Park, Wuhan 
Mulan Park and Shanxi Water Park. 
We will continue to grow the revenues from our CLOTA 
platform by signing up more parks and OTA partners in 
the coming months. The tie up with Qunar, Ctrip, Tuniu 
and Lvmama, the four OTA giants in China, is a testament 
to the Group’s track record in China and a powerful 
endorsement of our CLOTA platform.
reSearch and develoPMent
Research and development (“R&D”) remains a key 
business driver for the Group in order to maintain its 
competitive advantage in delivering innovative solutions 
ahead of the market and creating new business trends. 
The Group has strong and proven R&D capability, which 
we will continue to deploy to bring new products and 
services to the market.
The R&D team has successfully played their part and 
amongst the highlights is CLOTA that was officially 
launched last year as well as the eWallet on RFID. 
Furthermore, the R&D for Mobile Ticketing, Park Map & 
Navigation Apps and Smart-Q MAPPs has been completed 
and is now ready for deployment.
Through the acquisition of iLogic, the development of 
GALOTAS has been fast-tracked and further refinements 
are ongoing with a scheduled launch in later in 2015.  
The Group also intends to sell and ship Galasys GL T’s 
kiosk products (Ticketing Redemption / Vending Kiosk) for 
amusement park customers in China and South East Asia. 
Galasys’ kiosk software program is localised to support 
multi-language and multi currencies payment.
reSourceS
To strengthen our team further, we have recruited more 
than 40 new staff since the IPO. These new hires will focus 
on customer generation, developing new technologies  20
01 STRATEGIC REPORT 
including GALOTAS and deployment of new installations on new client wins. The Group will 
continue to hire new sales and technical talents as our business expands.
At the end of 2014, we also announced the appointment of WH Ireland Limited as our new 
Nominated Adviser (NOMAD) and Broker.
outlook for 2015
The Group currently operates in Asia, the strongest growth market for amusement parks and 
visitor numbers. The Group’s growth strategy is built on new key customer acquisitions, new 
products through continuous R&D and technology partnership, the rollout of the TiTo engagement 
model to increase recurring revenue, the execution of the CLOTA sales and distribution platform to 
correlate our revenue and growth more closely to the number of visitors to our installed sites, and 
geographical expansion into new territories. 
The Group is also exploring collaborations with various technology partners to realise mutual 
synergies and will keep the market and our shareholders informed in due course.
The Group continues to expand into new territories by signing up partners in countries such as 
the Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Japan and the UK. Additionally, the Group is 
acquiring new clients while continuing to serve and deepen ties to its existing client base.
Asia remains the fastest growing market for the global amusement park industry and Galasys 
is well positioned to continue its growth in this region. The Group is working on a strong sales 
pipeline of projects for financial year 2015 and the Board is confident of delivering another year of 
good progress and financial performance.
Sean Seah
Chief Executive Officer
15 April 2015
