 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 04
Chairman’s statement
We have a clear strategy to grow  
our housebuilding business in more 
sustainable markets and manage  
our construction activities through 
more challenging times.
A STRATEGY
FOR VALUE
Introduction 
We laid the foundations during the year for significant growth in  
our housebuilding business and set our strategy for managing 
construction through more challenging times. I am delighted to have 
this opportunity to explain the thinking behind our strategy and to 
report on the decisive actions taken by our management to seize  
the opportunities presented as we emerged from the most severe 
downturn the housing market has seen for a generation and entered  
a period in which economic constraints continued to tighten on 
construction markets.
Overview 
As we entered the new financial year in the summer of 2009, it 
became clear that the housing market was showing early signs of 
recovery from the levels to which it had fallen during 2008/09. With 
many housebuilders’ ability to acquire new land constrained, our 
management saw the early signs of a revived land market. The board 
took the decision to secure additional funding through a rights issue, 
completed in October last year and raising £119.3 million, to invest 
in the land opportunities that were becoming available. The aim  
was to approximately double the size of the housebuilding business 
over a three year period with the objective of delivering a significant 
enhancement to earnings per share from 2012. To date, excellent 
progress has been made in implementing the plan.
As the UK emerged from the depths of the financial crisis it was clear 
that there would be increasing pressure on finance, both in the public 
and private sectors, which would impact the demand for construction 
projects. Accordingly, we took action to maintain the size of our 
order book as market conditions became more challenging, and 
were particularly successful in maintaining our industry leading 
position in the five year infrastructure frameworks for the water 
utilities, which last until 2015. With a diverse workload, and with 
good opportunities in growth markets such as renewable energy  
and waste, we are in a good position to work through a period 
during which the effect of public sector spending cuts will be felt, 
with a business that can take advantage of the opportunities for 
growth that will undoubtedly return thereafter. 
