 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 02
The Group at a glance 
Our credentials
Galliford Try’s award winning housebuilding companies  
have a long track record of building individually designed 
developments, concentrating on brownfield developments 
and based on an imaginative use of local architecture 
without using standard house types. 
Market position
We are the seventh largest housebuilder in the UK, with 
strong regional brands. Across the South and Eastern 
counties of England we operate as Linden Homes, Midas 
Homes, Stamford Homes, Gerald Wood Homes and 
Rosemullion Homes. We are also one of only six developers 
working on all of the Homes and Communities Agency’s 
developer partner panels together with housing associations 
to deliver affordable homes throughout our areas of operation. 
Our strategy
Our strategy is to build significant growth in the business 
over the next two financial years as the housing market 
moves out of recession. We are making good progress 
in growing our landbank, using the resources raised by  
the Group’s rights issue in 2009, and are putting the 
infrastructure in place to increase the number of homes  
sold to around 3,500 in 2012.
 
Sustainability
We build sustainable communities through innovation and 
transformation. During the year we built almost 500 homes 
to Level 3 of the Sustainable Code for Homes and just under 
600 to Level 4. 80% of all development sites are registered 
with the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Galliford Try’s strength is the diversity of its operations, spanning markets  
in both the housebuilding and construction industries. We provide whole  
life solutions to projects for the built environment, vital for delivering housing  
and complex regeneration schemes and giving us the ability to carry out a 
sustainable, quality workload for major construction projects.
HOUSEBUILDING
£316m
Revenue
£17.6m
Profit from operations*
1,705
Home completions
Revenue
1 PRivATe HouSinG £274m
2 AFFoRdAble 
 HouSinG £42m
UK coverage
For more detailed 
information go to: 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information 
about Housebuilding 
see pages 14-21.
1
2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 03
CONSTRUCTION
Our credentials 
Galliford Try’s record has been built on collaborative working 
with clients to deliver best value construction projects. A 
significant proportion of our work is in long term frameworks, 
particularly on programmes for improving the country’s 
infrastructure. We also have long term relationships with 
clients across the public and private sectors for whom  
we carry out series of projects, benefiting from an in depth 
understanding of clients’ objectives to get the best out of  
the construction process.
Market position 
We are a contractor in the UK top twelve. Our activities 
cover the building markets which range from commercial 
buildings, leisure facilities, education, health and affordable 
housing through to major infrastructure projects 
encompassing water, rail and general civil engineering, 
alongside renewable energy and land remediation.
Our strategy 
Our strategy is to maintain a spread of workload across the 
regulated industries and both private and public sectors. 
This ensures that in a period where expenditure on capital 
projects is under pressure, we focus on those markets where 
investment is continuing, concentrating on projects with an 
acceptable return and risk profile.
Sustainability
We develop long term relationships with clients and our 
supply chain, aiming for early involvement on projects to 
understand our clients’ sustainability drivers and innovate  
to help them achieve their goals. We are currently working 
on 37 projects that are BRE Environmental Assessment 
Method rated ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very Good’.
£937m
Revenue
£22.8m
Profit from operations*
£1.8bn
Order book
UK coverage
For more detailed 
information go to: 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information 
about Construction 
see pages 22-28.
* Profit from operations is stated before finance costs, amortisation,  
 share of joint ventures’ tax, exceptional items and tax.
Revenue
1 buildinG £445m
2 PARTneRSHiPS £94m
3 inFRASTRuCTuRe £398m
2
1
3
