 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
04
Chairman’s statement
A strategy 
for value
The business is soundly based, is in  
robust good health, and has a clear  
vision for the future.
I am delighted to have been appointed 
Chairman of Galliford Try at this important 
stage of the Group’s development and to 
make my first report to shareholders. Since 
joining the board last November, I have spent 
some time getting to know the business and 
can confirm that it is soundly based, is in 
robust good health and has a clear vision  
for the future. I know that I am speaking  
on behalf of all the board in paying tribute 
to the inestimable contribution made by 
David Calverley over the 16 years he was 
with the Company, and particularly as 
Chairman over the last six. We wish him 
a long and happy retirement.
Board and governance 
We have a top quality executive management 
team, led by a first class Chief Executive, 
Greg Fitzgerald. We also have an impressive 
and well balanced mix of non-executive 
directors who question and challenge in a 
way that is both constructive and supportive. 
The board is well informed by the executive, 
ensuring that board debate is both full  
and open. 
I am pleased to be able to report that I have 
found corporate governance within the 
Company to be excellent and in line with  
best practice. This is the first annual report 
prepared under the new UK corporate 
governance code and I can confirm that, 
although not mandatory for the Company,  
the board has decided to follow best practice 
as applicable to FTSE 350 listed companies.  
I would specifically highlight that this means, 
notwithstanding the effectiveness of the 
current board evaluation process, the board 
has committed to an external evaluation  
at least once every three years, and that  
all directors will stand for re-election at each 
annual general meeting. I can also report  
that the Company carried out a considerable 
amount of work prior to the implementation 
of the 2010 Bribery Act on 1 July 2011,  
and has put in place a well thought-through 
package of appropriate measures, including  
a Group-wide information and training plan, 
to drive compliance with the law. We have 
also appointed an experienced Head of Risk  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
5
PERFORMANCE
05
and Internal Audit during the year to further 
strengthen our processes for managing the 
assessment, impact and mitigation of risk 
across the Group. 
The board is also very aware of current 
concerns around the effectiveness of 
executive remuneration, which underlines the 
importance of the work of our remuneration 
committee to ensure there is clear alignment 
with shareholders’ interests and the long  
term success of the business.
Strategic overview 
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and a 
construction contractor. We therefore operate 
in two distinct market sectors, with differing 
characteristics and complementary features 
that are explained in detail on page 12 of this 
report. This business model has served us well 
in recent years, particularly through the recent 
recession, and the board will ensure that the 
way it develops and is adapted to meet the 
changing business environment in the future will 
continue to deliver best value to shareholders.
The fragility of both the global and UK 
economy has been clearly demostrated over 
recent months. Our businesses are closely 
aligned with the health of the economy and 
general economic confidence. The way  
we adapted quickly to the housing market 
downturn in early 2008 and to the opportunities 
to acquire land for expansion that arose in 
2009 clearly demonstrated the value of 
identifying economic changes early and 
responding to them, emphasising the 
importance of the board’s role in monitoring 
economic statistics and trends so we can 
react quickly again should the need arise.  
Despite the challenging conditions, the Group 
has delivered an excellent financial performance 
during the financial year. Importantly, we have 
made significant progress towards achieving 
the objective we set when raising a net 
£119.3 million by rights issue in October 2009. 
Our aim was to approximately double the size 
of our housebuilding business over a three 
year period with the objective of delivering  
a significant enhancement to earnings per 
share during 2012. At the end of the second 
year of the plan, we have the land, the 
planning consents, the construction resource 
and the management to deliver during the 
final year. We also planned to manage our 
construction business through more difficult 
times by focusing on profit margin and cash, 
not revenue. To date, the business has held 
up better than forecast in challenging markets, 
and continues to benefit from its many long 
term client relationships.  
Earnings and dividend 
The financial results achieved this year 
represent an increase in earnings per share  
of 31%, and as a result the directors are 
recommending a final dividend of 11.5 pence 
per share which, subject to approval at the 
annual general meeting, will be payable on  
18 November 2011 to shareholders on the 
register on 7 October 2011. With the interim 
dividend of 4.5 pence per share paid in April, 
this will result in a total dividend of 16.0 pence 
per share, an increase of 28% over the previous 
year. The board reviewed its dividend policy 
during the year and has stated its intention 
that, subject to the performance and prospects 
of the business, the Group will pay a total 
dividend that represents around one third of 
profits before tax.
People 
I have spent some time visiting a number  
of our operations since my appointment  
to the board last November and have been 
impressed by the quality and dedication of 
our people. They have been through a hard 
three years and I am particularly pleased  
that the efforts they have been making  
and the dedication they have shown to the 
business is now being reflected in improving 
performances across the Group. I thank 
them all.
Conclusion and outlook
The board has a clear strategy for delivering 
the expansion of its housebuilding business, 
and for managing its construction business 
through more challenging times, as set out in 
2009. We remain totally focused on delivering 
this strategy and in the coming year will 
review how we develop it over the next three 
to five years to ensure it remains appropriate 
and aligned to delivering value to shareholders. 
We have first class businesses in both 
contracting and housebuilding and the board 
is confident they will be able to make the 
most of the opportunities that arise.
Ian Coull 
Chairman
09 10 11
295
423
455
Total equity (£m)
09 10 11
10.9
12.5
16.0
Dividend per share (p)
