 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
06
Chief Executive’s review
Significant 
progress towards 
our objectives
We exceeded our profit expectations  
during the year and are in strong position 
to deliver on the objectives we set for 
2012 when embarking on our three year 
housebuilding expansion plan and to 
drive further growth thereafter.
We exceeded our profit expectations  
during the year as growth in housebuilding 
accelerated in the second half and we 
maintained a higher margin in construction 
than anticipated. As we enter the final year of 
our three year transformational expansion plan 
for housebuilding we are in a strong position 
to deliver on the objectives we set for 2012 
and to drive further growth thereafter.
Strategy and progress 
In 2009 we laid out our plan to double the 
size of our housebuilding business over three 
years based on a strategic focus on Southern 
England. £119.3 million was raised by way of 
rights issue with the intention of acquiring land 
at the attractive prices we foresaw would  
be available, building up our management 
resources and strengthening our market 
coverage within our southern biased business 
so that by the third year we could deliver 
around 3,000 units. We forecast that earnings 
per share would reduce as we made the 
investment required during the first two  
years of the plan before materially increasing  
in 2012 as we delivered the resultant 
revenues and profits.
At the end of the second year we have made 
significant progress. We have exceeded our 
profit forecasts in each of the first two years. 
We have managed our cash to both invest in 
land and maintain a robust financial position. 
By the year end we had secured all the land 
we need to deliver our planned production  
in 2012, with every plot having a detailed 
planning consent. 
During the year we increased the number of 
active selling sites from 59 to 78, and opened 
new regional offices in Guildford and the 
Thames Valley. We completed 2,170 homes, 
27% up on the previous year and brought all 
our housebuilding businesses together under 
the Linden Homes brand, which is driving 
improvements in cost effectiveness, brand 
recognition and consistent marketing. At the 
year end, 70% of our landbank of 10,250 
plots had been acquired at current market  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
7
PERFORMANCE
07
values on which profit margins are materially 
higher than on legacy land. The housing market 
in our southern biased area of operation has 
generally remained stable and, although there 
remains a significant amount of production  
to deliver, and sales to achieve, we are in a 
strong position to meet our objectives. We will 
then drive forward further growth towards 
4,000 annual completions in the medium 
term to firmly establish ourselves as a top  
five housebuilder.
Our plan took account of construction markets 
that we anticipated would become more 
difficult as economic conditions hardened. 
We set a clear strategy to focus on profit 
margin and cash performance, the two key 
measures determining the success of a 
contracting business. We planned for the 
absolute level of our construction revenues  
to fall, as we were not prepared to acquire 
work in highly competitive markets where 
price levels or contract conditions were 
unacceptable. 
Although the market held up longer than  
we expected, the effect of public sector 
spending constraints is impacting the 
construction industry’s future pipeline of  
work and continuing to drive further intense 
competitiveness. Our strategy has held  
up well with a maintained margin of 2.4%, 
excellent cash balances generated from our 
construction activities and year end order 
book of £1.75 billion. This demonstrates 
success in winning work in our chosen sectors, 
particularly as we move towards carrying out 
larger projects such as the recently awarded 
£790 million Forth Road Crossing, being 
carried out in a four party consortium, where 
specific skills and organisational strengths  
are required that mitigate against selection on 
price criteria alone. We therefore have visibility 
on revenues in the immediate future which 
enables us to maintain the resources we need 
to ultimately grow the business again when 
economic conditions and markets improve.
Sustainability 
Our objective is to run a sustainable business. 
Working with our construction clients to 
provide innovative solutions that help them 
meet their own sustainability objectives  
has become a key part of our service.  
In housebuilding we are playing our part in  
both the industry and Government approach 
to improving sustainability, building on our 
experience in delivering homes to increased 
environmental standards and our work on  
net zero carbon developments. Within the 
business, we have established a 15% carbon 
reduction target by the end of 2013. Our 
objectives and record across our key areas  
of corporate responsibility, from the absolute 
priority of our health and safety performance 
and case studies from across the Group,  
are in the Corporate Responsibility section  
of the business review and in our separate 
CR report. 
People 
I never fail to be impressed by the expertise 
and effort shown by our people across  
all of our businesses, particularly through  
difficult times, and I am delighted to have this 
opportunity to thank them. They can be justly 
proud of the projects that they deliver to their 
clients and customers and it is the service 
they give that the future of our business 
depends on.
Outlook 
Sales during the summer period have been 
resilient, with £328 million currently reserved, 
contracted or completed, 25% ahead of last 
year. Since the year end our landbank has 
risen to 10,400 plots of which 72% have been 
acquired at current market values and we 
now have 81 active selling sites. Our southern 
biased markets are remaining stable, giving 
us the backdrop to deliver significant growth 
in the new financial year and to drive further 
expansion in the medium term towards 4,000 
annual completions.
We have maintained a high quality 
construction order book currently standing  
at £1.7 billion. After securing a number of 
valuable projects in the second half of the 
year our forecasts take account of the effect 
of the increasingly competitive market over 
the next one to two years. With 90% of  
our planned revenue for the new financial 
year secured, and our continued focus on 
delivering optimum margins and industry 
leading cash balances, we are well placed  
to work through the downturn.
Although the economic outlook in the UK 
remains uncertain, in the absence of a material 
effect on our markets we remain confident of 
delivering our planned progress. 
Greg Fitzgerald 
Chief Executive
