 The Group at a glance
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
02
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and affordable housing developer across the 
South and East of England, and a provider of construction services throughout 
the UK.
Galliford Try’s strength is in the diversity of its operations, spanning markets 
in both the housebuilding and construction industries. We provide whole 
life solutions to projects for the built environment, delivering housing and 
regeneration schemes and carrying out major construction projects from  
public and commercial buildings to major civil engineering works.
Housebuilding
Our credentials
Galliford Try’s award winning housebuilding 
business has a long track record of building 
individually designed developments with an 
unrivalled expertise in brownfield sites and 
building conversions. We aim to design with 
local architectural styles and building materials 
and do not rely on standard house types. 
Market position
We are the seventh largest housebuilder 
in the UK, and during the year rebranded our 
entire business as Linden Homes to provide  
a consistent recognisable presence across  
our regions. We operate across the South  
of England and the Eastern counties. 
We are also a major provider of affordable 
homes and are one of only six developers 
working on all of the Homes and Communities 
Agency’s developer partner panels.
Our strategy
We are at the start of the final year of our 
three year expansion plan, under which we 
plan to have doubled the size of the business  
from 2009. In 2012 we anticipate completing 
over 3,000 homes, placing us in the top five  
of UK housebuilders – delivering an increasing 
proportion of our sales from land acquired 
since July 2008 on which higher profit 
margins will drive absolute profit growth.
 
Sustainability
Sustainability is about creating affordable,  
well designed homes in viable dynamic 
communities. The majority of our homes are 
on brownfield sites and we have sustainability 
action plans covering the key issues – technical, 
localism and planning, regulation, supply 
chain and customer engagement.
Revenue
£389m
Profit from operations
£31.6m
Home completions
2,170
Revenue by sector UK coverage Completions by sector
For more detailed information 
go to: www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information about 
Housebuilding see pages 16 to 23.
1 Private Housing  £324m
2 Affordable Housing  £65m
1 Private Housing  1,446
2 Affordable Housing  724
1
1
2
2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
3
PERFORMANCE
03
Our credentials 
Galliford Try’s record has been built on 
collaborative working with clients to deliver 
best value construction projects. A significant 
proportion of our work is in long term 
frameworks, particularly on programmes  
for improving the country’s infrastructure.
We have experience in working in joint 
ventures where we can bring regional 
expertise and our specialist civil engineering 
skills to the largest projects.
Market position 
We are a UK top 12 contractor operating 
across the entire country. Building works  
range across commercial property, leisure  
and hospitality facilities, education, health  
and, in our partnerships division, affordable 
housing. Infrastructure projects encompass 
water, highways and rail, civil engineering and 
flood alleviation as well as renewable energy 
and energy from waste.
Our strategy 
We aim to maintain our order book at a 
consistent level with the objective in the 
current economic conditions of delivering 
profit and cash balances, not absolute levels 
of revenue. We strive for a diverse spread of 
work across the regulated, public and private 
sectors, focusing on sectors where procuring 
work is not based on price competition alone, 
where there are opportunities to deliver best 
value with an acceptable return and risk 
profile. We aim to be in a position to resume 
our growth strategy when economic 
conditions and markets improve.
Sustainability
We aim to play a key role in supporting  
our clients to achieve their sustainability 
objectives, and have initiatives in place  
to reduce our carbon footprint and drive 
improvements across our own operations.
Construction
Revenue
£937m
Profit from operations
£22.2m
Order book
£1.75bn
For more detailed information 
go to: www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information about 
Construction see pages 24 to 30.
Revenue by activity Order book by activity UK coverage
1 Building  £439m
2 Partnerships  £124m
3 Infrastructure  £375m
1 Building  £673m
2 Partnerships  £156m
3 Infrastructure  £921m
3
2
1
1
2
3
