 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
05
PERFORMANCE
Strategy
With the housebuilding expansion plan now 
complete, the board intends to continue to 
focus this business on the regions and 
market segments where it has signiﬁcant 
expertise and experience. This will deliver 
disciplined growth and allow us to expand 
margins, while at the same time increasing 
the Group’s cash generation and supporting 
the new, higher dividend. The housing market 
remains robust in the South East and the 
board believes the new strategy will stand  
us in good stead in these conditions.
The strategy in construction is unchanged. 
With markets remaining challenging, we will 
continue to focus on delivering margin and 
cash, with a view to resuming growth when 
markets recover.
Our hybrid business model – operating both 
housebuilding and construction businesses –  
has been highly successful for us in recent 
years. As always, the board will ensure that the 
way our business model develops and adapts 
to meet the changing business environment 
continues to deliver best value to shareholders.
Governance
I am pleased to report that the standard  
of corporate governance in Galliford Try 
remains high. Although the Company was  
not a member of the FTSE 350 at the start of 
the ﬁnancial year, we were already following 
best practice for FTSE 350 companies  
and complying with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Our subsequent return  
to the FTSE 350 in October 2011 did not 
therefore require us to make any changes  
to our governance practices.
During the year, the board spent considerable 
time considering the Group’s approach to risk 
management. An experienced internal audit 
 helping us to enhance our risk management 
processes. Risk will remain an important 
focus for the board going forward.
We continue to follow the debate regarding 
executive remuneration and ﬁrmly support  
the view that pay should reﬂect performance. 
The board believes that Galliford Try has the 
right structures in place to align our executive 
team’s rewards with shareholders’ interests 
and the long term success of the business.
People
Galliford Try could not have achieved its 
recent performance without the skills,  
hard work and dedication of our people.  
The growth in housebuilding and the 
continued good performance in construction 
reﬂect their efforts, and I thank them on the 
board’s behalf.
During the year, our company secretary 
Richard Barraclough retired after 22 years 
with the Group. Frank Nelson, our ﬁnance 
director, also announced his intention to retire 
at the end of September 2012, by which time 
he will have completed 25 years with us. 
Both have made a signiﬁcant contribution  
to Galliford Try and we wish them well for  
the future.
The board was delighted to welcome  
Kevin Corbett as company secretary and 
legal director, and a member of our executive 
 where he was Chief Counsel, Global.
Later in the ﬁnancial year, Graham Prothero 
 have put interim arrangements in place until 
 Securities PLC, where he is Finance Director.
Conclusion and outlook
This year’s excellent performance sets  
the baseline for the future. The board has  
a clear strategy in both housebuilding and 
construction, which will serve us well in the 
market conditions we expect to face in the 
coming years.
The Group is ﬁnancially robust, has a  
unique business model and real competitive 
strengths throughout its operations. This 
gives us a sound platform from which we  
can make further progress.
Ian Coull 
Chairman
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
04
With excellent performance, a disciplined 
strategy and an increased and sustainable 
dividend, Galliford Try is well placed to 
generate further value for shareholders.
Performance and dividend
The Group achieved an outstanding ﬁnancial 
performance during the year, with signiﬁcant 
increases in revenues and proﬁts and a 
strong ﬁnancial position at the year end.
This is the result of our three-year 
housebuilding expansion plan coming to 

many considered this plan to be ambitious.  
Its successful delivery is testament to the 
vision and skill of Greg Fitzgerald and our 
executive team. It also reﬂects our prudent 
approach in construction, where we continue 

acceptable margins and generate cash.
The Group’s strong ﬁnancial performance has 
 This higher level of earnings, coupled with the 
expected rise in cash generation resulting 
from the new housebuilding strategy 
discussed below, gives us the opportunity to 
signiﬁcantly increase the dividend payout.
The board is therefore recommending a  
ﬁnal dividend of 21 pence per share, to be 
paid on 16 November 2012 to shareholders 
on the register at 5 October 2012. Together 

this gives a total dividend of 30 pence for  

The total dividend is approximately twice 
covered by earnings. The board will pursue  
a progressive and sustainable policy for future 
dividend payments. 
Chairman’s statement
Delivering value  
for shareholders Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
07
PERFORMANCE
This strategy will enhance the quality of our 
earnings and improve our cash ﬂow, enabling 
us to pay the substantially increased dividend 
described by the chairman on page 04.
 
Sustainability
The importance of sustainability to our 
business is reﬂected in our vision: ‘to be 
leaders in the construction of a sustainable 
future’. We recognise that our long term 
success depends on contributing 
economically, environmentally and socially  
to the communities in which we operate.
More and more, the innovative solutions  
we offer to our construction clients make  
an important contribution to their 
sustainability. In housebuilding, we help 
create vibrant communities and provide 
properties that meet or exceed strict 
environmental standards. As in previous 
years, we received excellent feedback in  
our customer surveys in both businesses.
Sustainability also means that we must  
work in the right way. Galliford Try has 
industry leading levels of health and safety 
and we continue to look for ways to do 
better. During the year, for example, we 
launched a dynamic new brand, toolkit  
and coaching for our behavioural safety 
programme called ‘Challenging Beliefs, 
Affecting Behaviour’.
We also made further progress with our 
environmental performance. Having set  
 emissions intensity by the end of 2013,  
we were pleased to have achieved an  
 More information about our approach to 
sustainability and performance can be found 
on pages 36 to 41 and in our separate 
sustainability report.
People and culture
I want to sincerely thank everyone in Galliford 
Try for their hard work and contribution to  
our success this year. Conditions have often 
been tough but the Group is resilient and 
ﬁnancially sound and our reputation is as 
strong as it has ever been. I believe that the 
Group is a good place for our people to 
develop their careers. We value long service 
and have numerous employees who have 
been with us for many years.
Part of our attraction as an employer is our 
straightforward, people-oriented culture. We 
aim to treat our people and clients fairly, and 
to live by a strong set of values: excellence, 
passion, integrity and collaboration. The most 
effective way of embedding these values is 
for our employees to see them in action, in 
the day-to-day decisions we take throughout 
the business and in the way we interact with 
each other. We also make sure that we share 
our success stories, to reinforce our values 
and spread good practices.
Outlook
Both housebuilding and construction are in 
strong positions with clear strategies going 
forward and are well placed to beneﬁt from 
opportunities in their respective markets.  
At the year end, housebuilding had secured 
all the land it will need for 2013 and around 
 also had a good level of sales in hand, at 
 
for 2013 whilst maintaining its order book at 
 years for work in the water sector under the 
AMP5 frameworks, which will help offset 
lower activity in other construction markets.
We welcome the Government’s initiatives  
to stimulate housebuilding and the 
construction market.
Overall, we are pleased with the Group’s 
position as we enter the next ﬁnancial year 
with the board conﬁdent about the 
opportunity to deliver further growth  
and create further shareholder value.
Greg Fitzgerald 
Chief Executive
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
06
This year saw us exceed our three-year 
housebuilding growth plan and deliver a 
further solid performance in construction. 
Both businesses have strong positions 
and the right strategies to succeed.
Strategy and progress

the size of our housebuilding division by 2012. 
The aim was to create a business that could 
deliver around 3,000 units a year, requiring us 
to build up our management resources and 
strengthen our market position in the south of 
the country, by investing the proceeds of our 

I am delighted to report that we have 
achieved everything we set out to do –  
 of housing and the Group achieved a proﬁt 
 
 Our new strategy for housebuilding will deliver 
disciplined growth, focusing on the more 
robust southern market, where we currently 
 allow us to:
 leverage our Linden Homes brand, which 
is recognised for high-quality, individually 
 boost our strategic land development 
 minimise our reliance on consortium  
 reduce our execution risk, by focusing on 
areas with greater demand and higher 
 increase our housebuilding margins, by 
maximising the efﬁciency and effectiveness 
of our operations. We are aiming to add  
an incremental three percentage points to 
our housebuilding operating margin by the 
end of 2015. This will be mainly realised on 
new sites with the margin beneﬁt coming 
through more strongly in the ﬁnancial year 
2014/2015 and beyond.
In construction, we expected conditions to be 
difﬁcult and we were proved right. Our strategy 
continues to be based on winning work in 
markets where there are barriers to entry and 
we are able to add value for our clients, thus 
earning an appropriate margin. In the context 
of difﬁcult markets, construction had an 
encouraging year and met our expectations, 
winning a number of important contracts.  
We believe that we are well positioned to 
resume growth when markets allow.
Chief executive’s review
Achieving our  
strategic objectives
