 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 02
Completions 
by sector
Private
Affordable
2,932
2,244
688
At a glance
Our divisions
Two	strong	
businesses…
Housebuilding
Operating through Linden Homes, we are 
a leading housebuilder. We develop individual 
homes in prime locations nationwide and 
have a strong presence in the south of 
England and the eastern counties. 
Creating distinctive homes that complement 
their local surroundings, we take pride in 
attention to detail and the quality of our 
houses and apartments. We typically build 
on brownfield sites and can take on the most 
complex developments by using the skills 
of our construction division, reinforcing our 
industry leading offering and differentiating 
us in the new homes market. 
With a keen focus on customer service, 
we have built our business on commitment 
to our customers. Our success has been 
demonstrated by our level of satisfied 
customers and this has been recognised by 
Linden Homes winning a host of high profile 
awards over the last 12 months.
Following a period of expansion over the three 
years to June 2012, the Group now delivers 
around 3,000 homes annually to customers in 
its chosen regions.
Key developments for the business in the 
financial year included King Harry Park and 
Mosaic in St Albans; Nash Mills Wharf in 
Hertfordshire; Cholsey Meadows at Cholsey, 
Oxfordshire; Burntwood Square in 
Brentwood, Essex; Milbury Reach in Exeter, 
Devon; Purifier House in Bristol; and Saint 
Nicholasgate in Beverley, East Yorkshire.
Forthcoming developments anticipated for 
2014 include Boyn Hill in Maidenhead and 
Oakbrook in Langley, both in Berkshire; 
Millbrook Park, Finchley and Ashlar Court, 
Hammersmith, both in London; Northfields in 
Colchester, Essex; Riverside in Goldalming, 
Surrey; City Glade, St Loyes in Exeter; and 
Oasis in Lincoln, Lincolnshire.
“Linden Homes has an 
excellent	reputation,	
award-winning	quality,	
delivering homes in prime 
locations and a sound 
strategy for disciplined 
growth	and	higher	
margins.”	
Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
£640m
Revenue
Up £2.9m
Profit from operations
Up 11%
Profit margin
Up 11%
Landbank
Up 8%
Home completions
Down 107 units
£83.5m
13. 1%
11,300 2,932
2013	performance:	Housebuilding 
Linden Homes, our housebuilding business 
had a record year, with profits, average selling 
price, year end sales in hand and landbank 
all reaching new highs. The business enters 
the new financial year in excellent shape, 
with the prospect of further growth and 
higher margins.
Folders Meadow, West Sussex Business review
03 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Revenue by activity
Building
Partnerships
Infrastructure
£913m
£407m
£90m
£416m
Construction
Our construction division is a major UK 
contractor. We have a diversified workload in 
the public, regulated and private sectors, and 
look to develop long-term client relationships 
that allow us to work in partnership to deliver 
best value. We have a strong reputation for 
providing whole-life solutions, high standards 
of project delivery, an ability to innovate and 
the diversity of our activities.
Construction operates mainly under the 
Galliford Try and Morrison Construction 
brands, and is organised into building, 
partnerships and infrastructure divisions. 
Building serves clients in the health, 
education and commercial markets across 
the UK. Partnerships is our specialist 
affordable housing contractor, with a strong 
business in the south and north east and a 
growing presence elsewhere. Infrastructure 
carries out civil engineering projects, primarily 
for clients in the water, highways, remediation, 
oil and gas, and energy from waste markets.
The construction division also includes our 
multi-disciplined group of chartered 
surveyors; and our national piling specialists.
In addition, our Investments business invests 
in public private partnerships, creating 
construction and facilities management 
opportunities for the Group, while benefiting 
from our strong balance sheet.
“With our broad range of 
capability,	strong	regional	
positions,	long-term	
customer relationships 
and focus on risk 
management,	we	are	well	
placed	to	grow	when	
markets	improve.”	
Ken Gillespie
Construction Division Chief Executive
£913m
Revenue
Down 1.3%
Profit margin
On plan
Cash
Strong performance
Profit from operations
Down 20%
Order book
Maintained
1.7%
£145m
£15.1m
£1.7bn
2013	performance:	Construction 
Construction performed well in difficult 
markets. The business won a number of 
significant new contracts, allowing it to 
maintain its order book, and enters the new 
year with a solid position.
Tidemill School, Deptford Lounge and 
Resolution Studios, South East London Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 04
At a glance
Strength in diversity
…delivering a 
competitive 
advantage
An integrated service offering
Our internal trading charter encourages our divisions to 
work together, creating combinations of skills that are 
attractive to our clients and which keep profit within the 
Group. For example, construction is increasingly 
supporting housebuilding on complex and challenging 
sites and with building apartments. 
At Gresham Mill (pictured left) four construction business 
units worked with Linden Homes to rejuvenate a former 
printworks, creating 70 apartments and 18 townhouses, 
including a water turbine to produce 10% of the homes’ 
electricity needs. At Gloucestershire County Cricket Club 
(pictured below) our Building division is delivering nearly 
150 homes for housebuilding, as well as improvements to 
the cricket ground.
A construction business  
spread across markets
Construction benefits from the diversity of its markets. As the public 
sector market has become more difficult, the private sector has 
increased and regulated work has continued to come through. 
We are strong in the water sector, with recent projects including 
odour reduction at Beckton, Europe’s largest sewage treatment 
works (pictured below); and upgrades and extensions to Liverpool 
Wastewater Treatment Works (right). We were also recently 
reappointed to a major water and environmental management 
framework with the Environment Agency for 2013–17, with a 
significant future workload expected. Business review
05 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Benefits of a diverse Group
In recent years, construction has benefited from being 
part of a diverse Group. Our growth in housebuilding 
has allowed construction to be selective in difficult 
markets, helping it to manage risk and protect its 
margins by focusing on high-quality work, such as our 
contracts that helped London prepare for the 2012 
Olympic Games (pictured below).
A sophisticated affordable housing offer
The affordable housing market is evolving, with clients increasingly looking to form 
joint ventures and to share risk and returns on developments. Our combination of 
Linden Homes and affordable housing in housebuilding and our partnerships 
business in construction gives us a full suite of capabilities, making us an attractive 
partner to our clients. Connect at Haywards Heath (pictured below) and Roden 
Court in Crouch End, London (left), are just two of our many affordable housing 
projects. The developments utilised the strengths of Linden Homes and 
Partnerships respectively.
The diversity of our business and 
our divisions’	complementary	skills	
give	us	an	unique	set	of	competitive	
advantages,	allowing	us	to	create	
value	for	our	shareholders	and clients.
