 08 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chief	Executive’s	strategic	review
Excellent progress
Continuing strategic progress
This was another year of excellent progress. Our new 
housebuilding strategy delivered what we expected and we also 
benefited from better market conditions, with improving mortgage 
availability and a boost from the Government’s Help to Buy 
scheme from 1 April. As a result, housebuilding ended the year 
with a number of records. It achieved record profit before tax, its 
highest ever year end sales in hand and its largest ever landbank 
at 11,300 units, with opportunities to buy more land at attractive 
prices in a favourable land market.
A key aim of our housebuilding strategy is to increase our 
operating margin to 17–18% by 2018. We expect around half 
the margin increase to come from higher hurdle rates on land 
purchases and the benefits of our strategic land development, 
and the other half to come from operating more efficiently. 
We have made solid progress towards this goal, with an 11% 
increase in operating margin in the year.
Construction continues to perform well in difficult conditions, with 
a number of good project wins. Its order book remained strong at 
£1.7 billion and we have already secured most of construction’s 
planned revenue for 2014. The business, which operates across 
the UK, was helped by its leading position in Scotland, where 
Morrison Construction is one of the largest contractors and the 
market remains stronger. We also have significant operations in 
London, which is the strongest commercial market in England. 
Work in the regulated sector also continues to come through as 
planned. Overall, we are seeing an improvement in the number of 
construction opportunities but pricing levels remain competitive.
Our strategic priorities
Housebuilding and construction have distinct strategies but we 
have several common strategic priorities across the Group. In 
particular, we look to:
•	 deliver disciplined profit growth by focusing on the quality of 
business rather than the level of revenue, and by exploiting the 
synergies between housebuilding and construction to offer 
combined capabilities that no other group can match
•	 manage cash carefully in both businesses and take advantage 
of their complementary financial profiles
•	 embed the highest standards of sustainability across the 
Group, and in particular health & safety, recognising the 
financial and operational benefits of working sustainably and 
the upside for our stakeholders
•	 attract, develop and retain the best people, as they differentiate 
us from our competitors
More information about our Group’s strategic progress can be 
found on page 12. Our housebuilding and construction strategies 
are set out on pages 20 and 28 respectively.
Our performance 
this	year	shows	that	
we	have	the	right	
strategy	to	succeed.	
We	are	in	excellent	
shape,	giving	us	
good momentum as 
we	enter	the	new	
financial	year.
Revenue
Down 1%
Full Year Results interview 
with Greg Fitzgerald available 
at www.gallifordtry.com/
investors
Profit	from	operations
Up 9%
£1 ,559m
£84.1m
Greg Fitzgerald / Chief Executive 09 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Revenue by activity (£million)
12 13 12 13
925
913
637
640
  Housebuilding
  Construction
Sustainability
Health & Safety remains the Group’s first priority and I am 
particularly pleased that we further improved our health & safety 
record this year. The Group accident frequency rate reduced from 
0.16 to 0.10, a reflection of our tough internal measures. This 
performance is notwithstanding a tragic fatality of a subcontractor 
at one of our sites during the year.
As a business, we deliver environmentally and socially responsible 
projects. We also continue to embed sustainability into our 
operations. This makes us more efficient, while benefiting our 
customers, people, suppliers, communities and the environment. 
Sustainability also contributes to our ability to win work in 
construction, where clients often take account of sustainability 
when assessing bids.
Our overall performance is shown by our membership of the 
FTSE4Good index. We were also ahead of schedule in reaching 
our 15% carbon reduction target and launched a new campaign 
to encourage employees to further reduce our fossil fuel use, 
potentially saving us millions of pounds over the coming years 
while cutting our contribution to climate change.
Working closely with local communities is an important part of our 
sustainability efforts. We do a considerable amount across the 
Group but we have not always recorded this centrally. We are 
therefore putting processes in place to log our community 
activities, so we can share the full scope of what we are doing 
and spread good practice. 
Having the right supply chain is also crucial to sustainability. We 
are carefully monitoring the financial health of our subcontractors, 
particularly in construction where market conditions are taking 
their toll. We aim to pay suppliers in agreed timescales and to work 
collaboratively to help them succeed.
People and culture
Our people give us our competitive advantage. To maintain that 
advantage, our HR strategy aims to develop a committed and 
flexible workforce that wants to learn new skills and take on new 
tasks, and is able to do so. Our Academy provides structured 
training and career opportunities for our trainees and graduates, 
and our management development framework offers learning and 
development for staff at each stage of their career. We agree these 
needs during each employee’s annual review.
Through its Linden Homes Foundation, the Group is actively 
encouraging subcontractor apprentices to learn a trade, and is 
providing workplace opportunities through and following their 
training. In the year to June 2013, four apprentices joined the 
Foundation and more are expected in future years.
Galliford Try has a distinct culture. We deliver the best for our 
customers by working with them in an open and honest way, and 
by committing to strong ethical standards. We look to live up to 
our values of excellence, passion, integrity and collaboration, 
which underpin our relationships with employees and our other 
stakeholders. Our culture of personal care extends throughout the 
business, which is why so many of our employees have been with 
us for so long, with many having more than 25 years of service.
I would like to thank everyone in Galliford Try for their contribution 
to our success this year. The Group is well positioned and I believe 
it is an excellent place for our people to further their careers. On a 
personal note, I want to thank Ian Baker for his contribution as 
Group Managing Director of Housebuilding, and to wish him well 
as he recovers from the illness that forced him to step down 
from his role.
Outlook
Each of our businesses has a clear strategy and strong 
leadership team, and both are well placed to further benefit from 
the improving outlooks in their markets.
Following an encouraging summer our housebuilding business 
had record sales in hand of £405 million as at 1 September 2013. 
The business also has a record landbank with all the land it 
needs for 2014 and, following a decision to increase land buying to 
take into account continuing stable conditions, currently has 90% 
of its 2015 requirements.
Construction enjoys good levels of visibility following a number of 
major project wins. The business currently has secured 87% of its 
projected workload for 2014, whilst maintaining its order book at 
£1.7 billion.
Both businesses are, against a background of some labour and 
supply challenges, maximising production to respond to 
strengthening customer demand and improved conditions.
The board is optimistic that the improved opportunities being 
experienced will continue through into 2014. We will continue 
our strategy of disciplined growth, to benefit from the opportunity 
to strengthen our market position and performance in both 
sectors. The prospects for both businesses are encouraging 
for the next financial year. 
Greg Fitzgerald / Chief Executive
Delivering in partnership
Greg Fitzgerald visits ‘The Regent’ 
development in Battersea to complete a 
dedicated health, safety and environment 
review. Nine Group businesses came together 
to regenerate a brownfield site and create 68 
private and 32 affordable homes. 10 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chief	Executive’s	strategic	review
Our business model
Harnessing our 
competitive 
strengths.
Combining our skills
Graylingwell Park in West 
Sussex (top right), Wispers 
Park in Surrey (bottom left) 
and The Regent in Battersea 
(bottom right) are benefiting 
from the combined offering 
of our housebuilding and 
construction divisions. 
Complementary businesses
Our hybrid business model, comprising housebuilding 
and construction businesses, gives us a competitive 
advantage. We can offer a complete package to our 
development partners, with our construction division 
able to remediate land, enable the site infrastructure and 
build public and commercial buildings. Housebuilding 
can then develop homes on the same site, such as our 
development at the new Gloucestershire County Cricket 
ground in Bristol.
Construction and housebuilding are also increasingly 
working together, enabling us to build homes on 
attractive but complex sites, as well as mixed-use 
projects with significant commercial elements. 
Housebuilding also benefits from construction services 
such as the piling and remediation that prepare sites 
for development.
Strategic	strengths
Reduced reliance on any one market
Housebuilding and construction serve different 
customers who receive their financing from 
different sources. This makes us less reliant 
on any one market.
Complementary financial profiles
Construction generates cash from clients’ 
regular payments, while housebuilding requires 
cash to buy land and pay for development, 
until the homes can be sold. Together, the 
businesses minimise our need for external debt.
Reduced impact of economic cycles
Housebuilding is early cycle, adapting quickly 
to economic changes, while long contracts 
and lead times make construction late cycle. 
When one of our businesses turns down, the 
other remains strong, reducing the impact on 
the Group. 11 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Housebuilding
Prime locations
Our success in housebuilding 
is based on our ability to 
identify and acquire the best 
land. We have built a sizeable 
landbank in prime locations 
with the potential to become 
prestigious and sustainable 
developments, with good 
local amenities and transport 
links. We identify the housing 
needs of each area to create 
communities where people 
aspire to live, in some of the 
country’s most desirable 
locations.
Individual design
We create bespoke designs, 
meaning that every one of 
our projects starts with a 
blank sheet of paper. We 
complement the local style 
and collaborate with some 
of the industry’s leading 
architects, to create 
distinctive homes with 
unique attention to detail.
Construction
Managing risk
We have well-developed 
systems of risk management, 
which help us to choose the 
right projects and to deliver 
them effectively. Our hybrid 
business model also allows 
us to be selective about the 
work we take on.
Supply	chain	and	
community relationships
We build relationships with 
our suppliers and work 
closely with them to improve 
service quality for our clients, 
increase our efficiency and 
address key areas such as 
health, safety and the 
environment. We also develop 
strong relationships with the 
communities around our 
sites. Being welcomed as a 
good neighbour helps us to 
work effectively in the area.
Quality build
Our homes are renowned 
for their expert build and 
high specification, and 
for encouraging a more 
sustainable way of living. 
We use up-to-date building 
methods and materials, and 
the latest advances in energy 
efficiency and lifestyle 
technology, aiming to reduce 
both the running costs for our 
homeowners and each 
development’s overall 
carbon footprint.
Customer focus
We believe in treating our 
customers the way we would 
like to be treated. We strive 
to improve service across 
the business and ask every 
customer for feedback, so we 
can see how we are doing 
and where we can improve.
Quality build
We are recognised for our 
high standards of project 
delivery and have won 
prestigious awards for our 
work. Delivering the best for 
our clients enhances our 
reputation and helps us to 
win new work.
Customer focus
We aim to become our 
clients’ valued partner. This 
allows us to align our clients’ 
needs on each project with 
their long-term ambitions. We 
aim to become an extension 
of their teams, giving us a 
deep understanding of their 
project targets.
Value chain
Construction Housebuilding
         Customer focus
         Customer focus
           Prime locations
            Managing risk
           Individual design
    community relationships
                  Quality build
                  Quality build
          Supply chain and 12 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chief	Executive’s	strategic	review
Our group strategy
Strategic	priority: Progress in the year:
• Achieved record Group profits
• Delivered higher margins in housebuilding and protected margins 
in construction
• Introduced an internal trading charter, to promote and monitor 
trading between our businesses and keep profit within the Group
• Continued to control the increasing capital invested 
in housebuilding developments
• Maintained construction cash balances at satisfactory levels, 
despite the expected reduction in revenues
• Continued to deliver excellent levels of health & safety, our number 
one priority
• Exceeded our 15% carbon reduction target ahead of schedule
• Recycled more than 90% of construction materials waste
• Exceeded our Considerate Constructors Scheme target 
• Joined the FTSE4Good index
• Delivered 11,142 training days
• Undertook our annual employee survey, with 91% of those 
responding stating that they cared about Galliford Try’s future
• Rolled out equality, diversity and anti-bribery training
• Exceeded our target for the percentage of employees attending 
the Chief Executive’s roadshow
• Achieved 18% growth in earnings per share
• Increased the total dividend for the year to 37 pence, up 23%
Disciplined	growth
We	aim	to	deliver	disciplined	profit	growth	
by	focusing	on	the	quality	of	opportunities	
rather	than	the	level	of	revenue,	and	by	
leveraging	the	synergies	between	our	
housebuilding and construction businesses
Cash management
We	actively	manage	cash,	keeping	the	
Group’s	net	debt	down	by	maximising	cash	
flows	from	construction	and	minimising	
the capital tied up in housebuilding
Sustainability
We look to embed the highest standards of 
sustainability	in	our	businesses	and,	in	
particular,	to	achieve	industry	leading	
levels of health & safety
People
We	want	to	attract,	retain	and	develop	the	
best	people,	and	engage	them	so	they	
offer excellent	service	to	our	customers
Shareholder	return
The ultimate aim of our strategy is 
to deliver superior returns to our 
shareholders 13 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
2011
90
60
30
35.1
2013
74.1
2012
63.1
2011
60
40
20
36.3
2013
(14.4)
2012
22.5
2011
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.19
2013
0.10
2012
0.16
2011
12
8
4
8.7
2013
11.5
2012
9.4
2011
90
60
30 32.2
2013
71.7
2012
60.9
2011
60
40
20
16.0
2013
37.0
2012
30.0
Key performance indicators:
Profit	before	tax
Profit on ordinary activities in £m, excluding 
exceptional items and tax
Cash and capital management
Group net cash or debt at the year end, 
in £m
Accident	frequency	rate
The total number of reportable accidents 
in the year per 100,000 hours worked
Staff	churn
The number of employees who voluntarily 
leave the Group during the year, as a 
percentage of the average number of 
employees in the year.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share in pence, based on profit 
attributable to ordinary shareholders before 
exceptional items, divided by the average 
number of shares in issue during the year.
Dividend per share
The sum of the interim dividend and 
the proposed final dividend, in pence 
per share.
Comment
Housebuilding profits continue to grow, 
more than offsetting the expected small 
reduction in construction.
Comment
The balance sheet remains strong 
with construction cash of £145 million 
and increased investment in 
housebuilding, resulting in net Group 
debt of £14.4 million.
Comment
An encouraging health & safety 
performance in the year, as described 
further on pages 38 to 39.
Comment
Staff churn was considered acceptable 
given current market conditions.
Comment
The growth in housebuilding profits was 
the main contributor to the increase in 
earnings per share.
Comment
The increase reflects increased profits 
and our progressive and sustainable 
dividend policy.
