 06 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chairman’s	statement
Enhanced shareholder value
Performance and dividend
The Group produced another strong financial performance, with 
record profits driven by growth in housebuilding. This demonstrates 
the success of the first year of our new housebuilding strategy, as 
well as the improving housing market which particularly benefited 
from the Government’s Help to Buy scheme from the start of April.
Our profit growth is especially notable given the difficult market 
conditions in construction, where we continue to pursue a prudent 
approach. Appropriate risk management and lower construction 
activity resulted in a fall in revenues, as we expected. Our financial 
position remains strong, giving us the resources we need to 
implement our strategy.
This year’s results are a credit to Greg Fitzgerald and his executive 
team. Greg’s judgement and strategic acumen have been hugely 
beneficial to us in recent years, as has the excellent operational 
delivery throughout the Group. 
Last year, the board introduced an enhanced dividend policy, 
which substantially increased our payout to shareholders. This 
year the board is recommending a final dividend of 25 pence per 
share, an increase of 19%. This will be paid on 29 November 
2013 to shareholders on the register at 18 October 2013. Together 
with the interim dividend, which increased by 33% to 12 pence per 
share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 37 pence, up 23%. 
With the Group having achieved an 18% increase in earnings per 
share to 71.7 pence, the total dividend is approximately 1.9 times 
covered by earnings.
Strategy
Our performance this year shows that the Group is following the 
right strategy in both its businesses. Housebuilding has remained 
focused on the regions and market segments where it has real 
expertise and where the market has been strongest. Its disciplined 
approach to growth is allowing it to focus on margin improvement, 
underpinning the Group’s cash generation and our higher dividend 
payout. The board continues to believe that this strategy will stand 
us in good stead.
Market conditions in construction are still challenging, so we 
remain focused on managing risk and selecting projects with the 
right margins and cash profiles, and where barriers to entry are 
high. Our construction business continues to outperform its peers 
and we are well placed to resume growth when markets recover.
Galliford Try has 
continued to deliver 
for shareholders.	This	
year’s	record	profit	
allows	us	to	further	
increase the dividend 
and	we	are well	placed	
to create more value 
in the	future.
Earnings per share
Up 18%
Dividend per share
Up 23%
71.7p
37.0p
Ian Coull / Chairman 07 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Overall, the Group’s performance demonstrates the continued 
benefits of our hybrid model and the board will continue to ensure 
the model develops to meet the changing business environment 
as well as delivering full value to shareholders. Operating both 
housebuilding and construction businesses has been highly 
successful for us, allowing us to deliver good performance at a 
Group level, even when one of our markets and the economy 
is tough. 
Governance
I am pleased to report that the standard of corporate governance 
in Galliford Try remains high and that we complied with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code throughout the year. Towards the 
year end, the board underwent its first external evaluation. This 
looked at the operation of the board and its three subcommittees, 
confirming that the board works effectively and that our non-
executive directors contribute hugely to the Group’s wellbeing.
The evaluation noted the effectiveness of the board but also 
highlighted areas where we could improve, notably by increasing 
clarity about succession and our long-term strategy. We are 
developing plans to address these. More information on governance 
generally can be found in the Governance Report on page 48.
The board also reviewed Greg Fitzgerald’s remuneration, reflecting 
our view that pay should reflect performance. After consultation 
with our largest shareholders and the Association of British 
Insurers, we have increased Greg’s base salary and potential 
bonus, to take into account the Group’s excellent results and the 
pay offered by comparable companies as well as rewarding future 
performance. We believe Galliford Try has the right pay structure 
to align our executives’ rewards with shareholders’ interests and 
the Group’s long-term success. The remuneration policy and 
implementation review on pages 56 to 64 sets out the details 
of our remuneration arrangements.
People
The foundations of our success are the skill and hard work of 
our people. Housebuilding’s continued growth and our relative 
strength in construction are testament to their dedication. I thank 
them all on the board’s behalf.
The last 12 months have seen considerable change to our senior 
management. Frank Nelson retired as finance director at the end 
of September 2012, having made a significant contribution to the 
Group. Graham Prothero took up the role on 1 February 2013, 
joining us from Development Securities plc, where he had been 
finance director since 2008.
We were greatly saddened by Ian Baker’s sudden ill health, 
which forced him to step down in December from his positions as 
Group Managing Director of Housebuilding and a member of our 
Executive Board. Ian was a highly valued member of the team and 
we wish him well in his recovery. Andrew Richards moved from his 
role as Managing Director of our PPP Investments business to 
become Group Managing Director of Housebuilding on 1 July 
2013. Ken Gillespie, who leads our construction division, joined 
the board on 1 March.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank both Frank Nelson and 
Ian Baker for their contribution to the Group.
These changes mean there were several months when two of our 
most senior management positions were unfilled. Many people 
stepped up to the mark to see us through and enable us to achieve 
the strong performance we had promised investors. The board is 
very grateful for their efforts.
Conclusion and outlook
Our strategy has continued to deliver for shareholders and we 
expect to make further progress from here. The Group remains 
well financed, has an unique business model and has 
demonstrated its competitive strengths across its operations.
Ian Coull / Chairman
Summary	of	governance
What has the board 
achieved during 
the year?
Leadership
The board ensured the Group 
has the right leadership, through 
a number of senior management 
appointments. We also 
continued to consider 
succession planning and 
board diversity.
Effectiveness
The first external board 
evaluation built on the strong 
processes developed in our 
internal performance 
evaluations. It confirmed that 
the board and its committees 
operate effectively.
Strategy
The board focused the 
Group on its strategy of margin 
enhancement for housebuilding 
and margin protection for 
construction. This included 
developing our delegated 
authority and internal 
control frameworks.
Risk
We continued to refine 
our internal audit and risk 
management programmes, 
while improving performance 
and procedures in areas 
spanning contingency 
planning, fraud awareness 
and on site processes.
Shareholders
We prioritise effective 
relationships with shareholders. 
The chairman, chief executive 
and finance director met existing 
and prospective institutional 
shareholders. The board also 
consulted major shareholders on 
succession and remuneration.
For more information please 
refer	to	Governance	from	page	48
      Risk                           Shareholders                      Leadership                     Effectiveness
 
              Strategy 
