 06 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chairman’s	statement
Continuing to deliver for shareholders
Our	successful	strategy	
has	once	again	delivered	
record	results	and	created	
value	for	shareholders,	
allowing	us	to	propose	
a further	significant	
increase	in	the	dividend.
Performance	and	dividend
Galliford Try’s performance has been strong for a number of years. 
Our hybrid business model meant the Group coped well during the 
recession, when our growth in housebuilding more than made up 
for a difficult construction market.
We are now in a period of housing market recovery, which has 
helped our performance over the last 12 months. Our strategic 
decision to reinforce our landbank while the market is favourable 
means we now hold the equivalent of around 14,000 units, 
positioning us well for the next few years.
Construction has not yet benefited from a market recovery but 
the signs are encouraging, with increased enquiries and tenders 
coming through and a number of major project wins. We continue 
to take a prudent approach to this market, with a focus on risk, 
margin and cash.
Overall, we are confident about the future and this is reflected in 
our continuing progressive dividend policy. This year, the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 38 pence per share, an increase 
of 52%. This follows a 25% increase in the interim dividend, to 
15 pence per share, giving a total dividend of 53 pence, up 43%.
With earnings per share increasing by 32% to 94.6 pence per share, 
the total dividend is covered approximately 1.8 times by earnings, 
in line with our objective. The final dividend will be paid on 28 
November 2014 to shareholders on the register at 17 October 2014.
Strategy
Our overarching aim is to create value for shareholders. We 
were therefore pleased to set out our new strategic objectives 
in February 2014 (see pages 12 and 13), which include detailed 
targets for the Group and each of our divisions. By 2018, we plan 
to more than double profit before tax and earnings per share over 
those delivered in 2013, with even greater growth in the dividend.
To reach these objectives, we will continue to follow the same 
fundamental strategy as before, focusing on disciplined growth 
across our businesses. One notable change is our decision to 
move our Galliford Try Partnerships affordable housing business 
from our construction division into housebuilding, in order to 
enhance its development capabilities and refocus the 
management team. 
The UK has underinvested in affordable housing for decades and 
we see significant opportunities for a regeneration and land-led 
contractor/developer model. Realigning Galliford Try Partnerships 
with our housebuilding division reinforces our leading position in 
this market and is highly attractive to clients.
Earnings	per	share	Up 32%
94.6p Strategic report Financials Governance
07 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Governance
Galliford Try continues to have robust governance, which we 
see as vital to our long-term success. In the last year, we have 
further strengthened our Board with the appointment of two new 
non-executive directors, Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller. 
They joined the Board on 1 February 2014, adding significant 
skills and experience.
Amanda Burton retired from the Board on 16 September 2014. 
She has been an excellent senior independent director and chair 
of our Remuneration Committee. We thank her for her contribution 
and wish her well for the future. She is being succeeded by Peter 
Rogers as senior independent director and Ishbel Macpherson as 
chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Galliford Try complies with all the latest governance guidelines and 
codes, and we look to adopt new practices that will strengthen our 
governance. During the year, prompted by the prospective rotation 
of our audit partner, we undertook a review of the appointment of the 
auditors before we were required to do so. The Board was satisfied 
that the current auditors clearly demonstrate independence and 
provide value, and hence recommended the reappointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . However, we will review the 
appointment ahead of compulsory rotation and it will be subject 
to shareholder approval annually. 
People
The Group has a very strong senior team, led by our chief 
executive, Greg Fitzgerald. We also enhanced the team through 
internal promotion and external appointments. In particular, 
Andrew Richards moved from our PPP Investments business 
to head up Linden Homes from the start of the financial year.
Greg has recently indicated his wish to retire as chief executive 
no later than the end of 2015 and is committed to ensuring a 
smooth transition to his successor. The Board thanks Greg for his 
excellent leadership and vision over the last nine years in his role 
as chief executive.
The Group’s performance and ability to deliver for customers 
and shareholders depends on our people’s skill and dedication. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their 
continued commitment to Galliford Try.
Conclusion	and	outlook
The economy and housing market are in a period of growth. In most 
parts of the country, house prices are only now getting back to 2007 
levels. The need for more housing is reflected in the pace of growth 
across the industry and the next three years look good as a result.
In construction, we are seeing more enquiries and larger scale 
bids being let. Longer term, the Government also has some major 
projects in the pipeline, such as nuclear power, education, highways 
and HS2, which play to our strengths in building and infrastructure. 
Overall, the outlook in construction is promising, although it is much 
earlier in the recovery cycle than housebuilding. We are also excited 
by Miller Construction joining the Group in July 2014. 
The Group is looking forward to delivering disciplined growth 
across its business.
Ian	Coull	
Chairman
Leadership
We strengthened the Board 
and enhanced its diversity 
through two new non-
executive appointments. We 
also filled senior positions in 
our management team by 
promoting from within and 
through recruitment.
Effectiveness
The Group’s performance 
reflects the quality of its 
leadership and governance.  
An internal Board evaluation 
confirmed that the Board is 
strong and functions 
effectively, building on the 
Board’s first external 
evaluation in 2013. 
Strategy
The Board reviewed and 
approved our new strategic 
objectives, which we 
believe will drive substantial 
growth and create value for 
shareholders over the 
period to 2018.
Risk
We look to continuously 
improve our risk management. 
During the year, we put in 
place a new Risk Committee 
chaired by our finance director.
Shareholders
Galliford Try has a strong 
shareholder register. During 
the year, we offered meetings 
with the chairman and senior 
independent director. 
Dividend	per	share	Up 43%
53.0p
   Risk             Shareholders          Leadership          Effectiveness
 
      Strategy 
Summary	of	governance
What	has	the	Board	achieved	during	the year?
For	more	information	please	refer	to	the	
Governance	Report	from	page	44
