 08 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief	executive’s	review
Positive markets support further disciplined growth
We	see	positive	signs	
in all our	markets,	
allowing us	to	plan	for	
disciplined	growth.	By	
2018	we	aim	to	more	than	
double	our	profits	and	
earnings	per	share	
compared	to	2013, with	
corresponding	increases	
in	shareholder	value.
People	and	culture
Our people give us a competitive advantage. I believe that getting 
our people strategy and recruitment right will be the biggest single 
factor in achieving our 2018 objectives.
After five years of relative stability, the market recovery is creating 
demand for talented people throughout the industry. Galliford Try’s 
success makes our employees desirable to our competitors and 
we are taking necessary steps to retain our key people.
We always look to promote from within but our growth strategy 
to 2018, announced with our half year results in February 2014, 
requires us to recruit more than 1,000 people over the next 
four years, at all levels and particularly in Partnerships and 
Construction. We are therefore delighted to have brought some 
600 experienced people into the Group through our acquisition of 
Miller Construction in July 2014. We expect to require fewer new 
people in Linden Homes, as our growth will not initially be driven 
by a large increase in units.
Our performance, ambition and culture make Galliford Try an 
attractive employer. Our growth provides opportunities for our 
people and we empower them to deliver, so the Group is an 
exciting place to work. We are also increasing our intake of 
graduates and apprentices, so we have the people and skills 
we need for the longer term.
As discussed below, supply chain conditions mean that building 
anything is as difficult as I have ever known. This makes our 
day-to-day operations much tougher for our people. I want to 
thank everyone in Galliford Try for their efforts, without which 
we would not have been able to deliver such strong results.
Strategy
For the first time in several years, our markets in housebuilding, 
affordable homes and construction are all showing signs that they 
can grow. This allows us to look forward and expand the business. 
In February this year, we therefore announced a new set of strategic 
objectives (see pages 12 and 13). These will see us deliver 
disciplined growth in Linden Homes and Partnerships, and 
grow construction back to its pre-recession level.
In setting these objectives, we were mindful of both the external 
and internal benefits. We want to be as transparent as possible for 
our investors, so they understand how we view our business and 
markets, and what we believe is achievable over the next few 
years. We also perform better when we have clear goals, as was 
apparent when we set our target in 2009 to double the size of our 
housebuilding business by 2012. These objectives show the scale 
of our ambition, helping us to motivate and retain our people and 
to attract new employees.
Revenue Up 19% 
£1,851m
Including our share of joint ventures. Strategic report Financials Governance
09 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Outlook
Our landbank in housebuilding is at record levels. We own or 
control all the land we need for the current year and have a very 
strong position for the year after. At 30 June 2014, we had a record 
carried forward position, with 34% of sales for 2015 already 
reserved or exchanged. The land market continues to provide 
attractive opportunities for us and we increased our hurdle rate 
from 22% to 23% on 1 July 2014.
At 30 June 2014, we had already secured 84% of our projected 
workload for 2015 in construction. We are seeing opportunities 
coming through at improving margins, allowing us to remain 
selective about the work we take on.
We are delighted to welcome Miller Construction to the Group 
following its acquisition on 9 July 2014. Integration is proceeding 
very well and ahead of our expectations. The acquisition brings 
together two construction businesses with a clear strategic fit 
and together makes our construction division stronger.
Tight supply chain conditions mean that one of the key challenges 
will be carrying out the work we are planning. We continue to 
manage our supply chain relationships carefully, to minimise this 
risk and ensure we achieve our objectives for the coming year. We 
will also focus on attracting and retaining the people we will need 
to achieve our objectives. 
Greg	Fitzgerald	
Chief	executive
As part of the strategy, we have realigned Partnerships to our 
housebuilding division. This will allow us to use Linden Homes’ 
expertise to grow our mixed tenure and land-led developments, 
strengthening our unique position in this market. Partnerships’ 
growth will be funded by cash from the rapid expansion of its 
contracting side. Overall, we expect Partnerships to achieve 
revenue in excess of £350 million by 2018, up from around 
£100 million in 2013 and £243 million in 2014.
We will continue to seek opportunities for intra-Group trading, 
using our combined capabilities in housebuilding and construction 
to provide a compelling offer to clients. We have also ensured 
we have the finance to fund our growth, with a new five year 
£400 million unsecured credit facility in place.
Sustainability
Sustainability has long been part of our strategy and is the 
cornerstone of our vision ‘to be leaders in the construction of a 
sustainable future’. We are further integrating it into our operations, 
by asking our director of health and safety to also take 
responsibility for sustainability. 
The long recession shrunk both the housebuilding and construction 
supply chains. The introduction of Help to Buy in April 2013 
contributed to a rapid housing market recovery, which has led to 
shortages of materials and subcontractors. This has also had a 
short-term effect on the construction supply chain. Whilst rising 
costs in the housebuilding supply chain are being offset by sales 
price increases, in construction we have contracts that were priced 
12 to 18 months ago, which assumed no cost increases. This has 
put additional pressure on construction margins this year. We 
believe we are through the most difficult period with the position 
stabilising but we expect supply chain conditions to remain tough 
for at least the next financial year. In the meantime, we continue to 
work hard to engage and support our supply chain partners, so that 
we are an attractive customer for them.
Keeping our people healthy and safe is a priority. After an 
outstanding performance in 2013, disappointingly our internally 
measured Accident Frequency Rate rose slightly this year for 
the first time in over five years. We remain highly focused on 
the behavioural aspects of safe working.
We have set stringent Group targets for reducing carbon 
emissions and achieving the corresponding energy and cost 
savings. A strong environmental performance also helps us to 
win work in construction and to attract the next generation 
of employees.
Working closely with our communities is important to us. We 
create jobs, boost local economies and ensure we keep our 
communities informed about our projects and their progress. As 
well as being the right thing to do, our approach recognises that it 
is easier to do business in communities where we are welcomed.
Delivering	in	partnership	
Our experience of producing exceptional housing 
developments, such as City Glade in Exeter, Devon, will also 
help us to deliver strong growth in our Partnerships affordable 
housing business.
Profit	before	tax	Up 28% 
£95.2m
Full	year	results	interview available at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk/investors
