 Our performance in the year to 31 January 2004 reflects another
strong year for the Group with our results showing increases in
market share, turnover, gross margins and profits. 
As usual the year’s performance was dominated by Christmas
trading. During the crucial five week trading period ending 3 January
2004 like for like and total sales rose 5.6% and 9% respectively.
This performance has been delivered against the backdrop of a
slowing growth rate in the video games market and highlights 
not only the resilience of our business, but also our ability to
outperform the market as we once again saw market share gains 
in our core UK market. 
The United Kingdom video games market
In calendar year 2003 the UK games market had a total value of
£2.04 billion. The brands within the industry are now household
names, whether it be Nintendo with the Gameboy or Gamecube,
Microsoft with the Xbox, or the market leader Sony with the
PlayStation 2. Video games are part of mainstream entertainment
and demand continues to outstrip video rental and cinema.
The market has grown from £500 million in 1995 to the £2 billion
market that we enjoy today, albeit that calendar year 2003 saw a slight
decline of 1.5% from 2002. Last year saw sales of current generation
hardware formats (Gameboy Advance SP, Gamecube, PS2 and Xbox)
in the UK continue at similar levels to 2002 and an installed base
increase of over 60% to reach 10 million units in the home.
Manufacturer driven price drops resulted in a decline in the value of
the market for hardware sales of 15% to £486 million. However, the
ever increasing installed base fuelled a 15% increase in unit sales of
software, and by value an increase of 7% to £1.26 billion.
This changing shape of the market in 2003 which was a worldwide
feature, is expected to continue. We are now in a phase of
development which continues to see rapid penetration of hardware
consoles into the home, often driven by reducing manufacturer price
points. This provides the foundation of demand for more profitable
software sales – a fundamental feature of the video games market
and our own business model. 
Market positioning
GAME is the European market leader and continues to perform
exceptionally well in this market place. Total sales have increased,
like for like sales have increased and market share has improved 
on all major product categories.
Over the years we have built up a strong market position in hardware
sales. However our strength has always been our ability to sell software
and other add on products as we continue to drive our unique
consumer proposition. Our strategy is built on these core areas: 
■ a dedication to delivering the highest levels of customer service,
allowing us to continuously maintain and grow a loyal customer
base by offering them expert service and an unrivalled product
range at the best prices;
■ our Reward Card programme has 4.7 million members in the
UK alone and we continue to develop the programme with a
focus on customer service and profitability;
■ the successful implementation of new innovations, such as 
on-line retailing and the pre-owned programme, in order to
maximise the benefits of our market leading position;
■ a permanent focus on the sales mix and margin to ensure that
our operational success is converted into cash profit; and
■ leveraging the expertise gained in the UK market by building a
presence in continental Europe to provide us with further scope
for growth in the medium term.
I am pleased to say that during the year we have continued to
deliver against all of these objectives.
THE GAME GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 - 2004
4
Maximise benefits of
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
SPECIALIST
RETAILER OF
THE YEAR
MCV
Awards 2004
RETAIL 
BUYING
TEAM
MCV
Awards 2004
CUSTOMER
FOCUS AWARD
-WINNER
National Business
Awards 2003 THE GAME GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 - 2004
5
Store portfolio 
In the year The GAME Group has strengthened its position as the
European market leader. There were 24 net store openings in the
UK and 18 in our European markets of France, Spain and Sweden.
As at 31 January 2004 2003
Number Number
Company owned and concessions
UK and Ireland 359 335
Continental Europe 132 114
Franchises
Continental Europe 57 58
Total outlets 548 507
United Kingdom and Ireland
In 2003 we continued to outperform the market with sales in 
excess of £500 million for the first time in our history and our results
were achieved against a background of increased competition, lower
retail prices and a consequent small reduction in total market size.
In the UK we outperformed the market, increasing our market share
by more than 1%.
One factor of our business today which cannot be underestimated 
is its scale. In 2002 we re-branded to the single identity of GAME. 
In 2003 we benefited from the consumer awareness which comes
from promoting a brand which has over 350 stores – a sizeable
number compared to many retailers.
Last year saw renewed vigour in our consumer offer as we executed
a strategy to deliver a clear consumer offer demonstrating both
range and value as a proposition and at the same time broadening
our mass market appeal through in-store experience, product offering
and promotions, all the time focusing on our strengths and specialist
selling proposition. 
our market leading position
UNRIVALLED
PRODUCT RANGE
AND EXPERT
STAFF KNOWLEDGE CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
THE GAME GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 - 2004
6
Award winning
As we drive to build a 400 strong chain for Christmas 2004, we
will continue to reinvigorate the consumer offer which we delivered
in 2003, and will also look to create cost and business efficiencies,
a major feature of our investment in automation in our new
Distribution Centre in Basingstoke. This phased move will be
completed through the summer and will see a step change in
both the level of automation but also a vast increase in capacity
for our business.
Continental Europe
Our businesses in Europe continued their improvement and now
represent some 16% of Group turnover. We have created well
structured operations in each territory but they do not yet enjoy the
scale which we have established in the UK and the benefits which
are associated therewith.
The Scandinavian market shows similar characteristics to the UK
market as the majority of the products sold in this market are 
indeed the same products which we see on our shelves in the UK.
2003 saw us add 9 stores and we expect to increase our opening
plans in 2004. We have already added 2 new stores in Denmark
this year. The region continues to operate profitably. We will be
looking to further strengthen our business and management team 
in this market during the current year.
Our business in Spain has seen much progress over the last 
12 months where we added 7 stores. Just as the market saw 
strong growth, this is an area where we saw sales growth ahead 
of our other territories as we continue to expand and to refine the
retail operation. We now have 40 stores and 57 franchises. The
business continues to be profitable and whilst we grow our own
store business, we are pleased that the franchise concept remains
successful. We have been encouraged by the trading performance.
There is a very good foundation for future organic growth.
In France we have made significant progress in 2003 with 
continued investment in the infrastructure of the business to ensure
that we have solid foundations to build upon. We remodelled 25
stores to a format consistent with our UK stores. We made key 
new local management appointments ensuring that we now have
an established management team, and a complete replacement 
of the IT infrastructure both centrally and at store level enabling 
us successfully to launch a GAME Reward card in the run up to
Christmas. France is a key market for video games in Europe. 
To date our performance in France has been below our expectations
but we recognise that with 58 stores the business does not have
the critical mass to generate significant returns. This critical mass
will take time to establish and in 2004 we will pursue store
openings and review acquisition opportunities.
GAME.net
In January 2004, as previously announced, the on-line gaming
division was closed after a management review determined that it
was not likely to make a satisfactory return on capital employed.
One off closure costs of £226,000 are part of exceptional charges
for the year ended 31 January 2004.
Our on-line efforts for e-commerce through our website GAME.net
have been increased and whilst this is a small area of our business,
our year on year sales increase of over 50% was very encouraging.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure was £30.4 million (£22.3 million). The Group
has made an investment of £17.5 million in respect of the purchase
of land at Basingstoke and construction costs to date. This project is
nearing completion and we expect to take occupation of our new
premises at the end of May. Notwithstanding these unusually
high capital costs net cash flow from operating activities was
£36.1 million (£37.4 million) and net cash in hand (excluding long
term debt for the Basingstoke freehold property) amounted to
£25.5 million (£36.5 million).
Treasury
The Board agrees and reviews policies and financial instruments for
risk management.
The Group holds financial instruments to finance its operations and
to manage the interest rate risks arising from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments such as trade debtors and
trade creditors arise directly from the Group’s operations. Operations
are financed by a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
Working capital requirements are met out of floating rate overdrafts
and retained profits. The Group does not trade in financial instruments or carry out
derivative transactions.  There is no significant foreign currency
exposure.  In planning the maturity of debt, the Group aims to match
the debt to the ability of the respective assets to generate income.
Unutilised committed borrowing facilities have been maintained in
order to provide flexibility in the management of liquidity.
Further information on borrowings and financial instruments is
contained in notes 18 and 19 to the financial statements.
The future
The GAME Group has established a reputation as a specialist retailer
that outperforms the market. It is anticipated that unit volumes for
hardware, software and peripherals will increase in 2004 although
we expect a continued pricing reduction within the market and
therefore values will be down against 2003.
We understand the dynamics of the market. We will continue to
drive our performance through new store openings and sales mix
changes that will enhance our overall margin and enable us to
meet our expectations for the year.
In the United Kingdom we aim to add up to 50 stores which will 
see us trading from over 400 stores by the key Christmas trading
period. We will drive margin improvement through the increased 
sale of software, pre-owned and peripherals and will also benefit
from the saving derived from the early settlement of the 
EBI agreement.
Our Continental European business is at a relatively early stage
of development. In each region we have now established the
management and logistics infrastructure. We will now focus on
driving organic growth through store openings. We will open in new
THE GAME GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 - 2004
7
market leader
OVER 4 MILLION
GAMEBOY ADVANCE SP'S 
SHIPPED IN EUROPE CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
CEO REVIEW
THE GAME GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 - 2004
8
countries such as Denmark, where we opened two stores in the 
first quarter of 2004 and we will continue to review suitable
acquisition opportunities.
Overall our business is fundamentally strong and our expansion
strategy through 2004 and beyond will ensure that GAME is well
placed to benefit from the increased demand for video games
software in the near term. GAME will also be in a strong position
to benefit from the ever increasing growth in the installed base
of current generation consoles. 
In the medium to long term we are confident the market will grow
due to impending technologies such as the handheld PSP from
Sony which sees its launch in Japan later this year and in Europe
in 2005, as well as the inevitable launch of Xbox 2 from Microsoft
and the PlayStation 3 from Sony thereafter.
Martin Long
Group chief executive
All market data sourced from ChartTrack
70% of all purchases
are made with a reward card
