 20
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chairman’s statement
We outperformed the market and our 
performance can be attributed to our position 
as the market leading specialist, our strength in 
preowned, our multi-channel customer offer 
and disciplined operational management.
We saw a decrease in the demand for consoles 
through the year. This was largely attributable to 
the Nintendo Wii which performed 
exceptionally well in the previous year. Strong 
comparables in the prior year, combined with 
declining hardware sales and a number of key 
releases moving into 2010, resulted in a decline 
in software sales.
The market responded well to the release of 
new hardware technology, the Nintendo DSi, 
and innovative sequels to established franchises 
such as Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, FIFA 10, 
and Wii Sports Resort. GAME took the leading 
market share in sales of these products.
The challenges in the pc and video games 
market were exacerbated by the difficult 
economic conditions with customers 
understandably focussed on getting the very 
Peter Lewis, Chairman
Overview
The Group has delivered  
the second best trading 
performance in its history  
with profit before taxation  
and non-recurring costs  
of £90.4 million 
(2009: £124.0 million). 
Our results were delivered 
against the backdrop of  
a very difficult trading 
environment, which saw  
the global pc and video 
games market decline  
by over 20 per cent. 
The Group has delivered  
the second best trading 
performance 
in its history Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
21
GAME. Press forward
best value for money. GAME responded rapidly 
to these challenges by amplifying our core 
strengths. 
These include a market leading preowned 
model which enables us to compete directly in 
a market where some competitors are using 
loss leading tactics. This, supported by the 
widest range of products, market leading 
promotions and offers, over 14 million Reward 
Card holders and a strong online proposition, 
enabled us to deliver recognisable value for 
money. We continue to believe that this is the 
right offering in a market where we will see 
continued technological advance and 
broadening customer appeal.
In addition, we maintained our focus on cost 
control and operational management. We 
have taken decisive action to improve 
operational efficiency, driving through 
significant cost synergies and exiting from 
underperforming store locations.
Results 
Group turnover for the 52 weeks ended 
31 January 2010 decreased by 10.0 per cent to 
£1,772.4 million (53 weeks ended 31 January 
2009: £1,968.6 million) with lfl sales down by 
15.0 per cent. In the UK and Ireland, total sales 
decreased by 16.6 per cent and lfl sales were 
down by 17.3 per cent. In our International 
operations, total sales increased by 4.8 per cent 
and lfl sales fell by 10.8 per cent. Our Online 
operations outperformed the rest of our business 
on a like for like basis although sales still 
decreased by 9.1 per cent.
The Group gross margin improved by 170 basis 
points principally due to an increase in higher 
margin preowned products within the overall 
sales mix, up from 18 per cent to 21 per cent. 
The Group continues to exercise strong cost 
control disciplines, with savings in the underlying 
cost base of approximately £5 million. 
Additionally, the Group has achieved a further 
£6 million of synergies from the Gamestation 
integration, bringing the total synergies for the 
year to £16 million.
Financial and Operational highlights
 
+170bps 
Group gross margin improved by 170bps
 
+£21.1m 
Increased preowned revenues to 
£374.5 million (2009: £353.4 million) 
representing over 21 per cent of sales; gross 
margin up by 260 bps to 41.7 per cent
 
£16m 
Completed Gamestation integration on 
schedule and delivered £16m of synergies
 
+5% 
Dividend increased by 5 per cent
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 30. Key performance indicators.
Page 50. International management. 22
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chairman’s statement continued
Group operating profit before non-recurring 
costs was £94.8 million (2009: £130.9 million). 
Profit before tax and non-recurring costs was 
£90.4 million (2009: £124.0 million) and basic 
earnings per share before non-recurring costs 
were 19.24p (2009: 26.09p).
Reflecting its confidence in the medium term 
prospects of the Group, the Board proposes a 
final dividend of 3.9p per share (2009: 3.71p),  
an increase of 5 per cent. This will result in a full 
year dividend of 5.78p per share (2009: 5.5p), 
an increase of 5 per cent. 
Our net cash position as at 31 January 2010 
decreased to £44.9 million (2009: £81.4 million). 
The decrease largely reflects a change in the  
timing of supplier payments, with significant 
payments being made just before the year end 
rather than just after, as they were in the prior 
year. On a like for like basis, our cash position is 
consistent with last year, and the Group 
continues to be cash generative with a strong 
balance sheet.
Business development
Our market
With a record installed base in the UK of over 
28 million third generation consoles, the market 
has, as expected, moved towards higher 
margin software and peripheral products.
In the UK, hardware sales declined by over 
26 per cent. Though still the best selling format, 
Nintendo Wii revenues were down by over 
49 per cent (using market data, not GAME), 
compared to exceptional sales in 2008. Following 
price cuts, sales of PS3 and Xbox 360 hardware 
were down by only 6 per cent and 19 per cent 
respectively. Sales of higher margin software were 
down by 17 per cent. This was again led by 
Nintendo formats, with software revenues for 
Sony PS3 and Xbox 360 formats showing an 
increase on those achieved in 2008 (source GfK 
ChartTrack). 
The manufacturers are focused on producing 
innovative new technology for the current third 
generation of consoles. This year we expect to 
see more sophisticated motion sensor 
controllers from both Microsoft, “Project Natal”, 
and Sony, “PlayStation Move”. These products 
will continue to broaden the appeal of video 
games and expand customer choice, with 
GAME being a key destination for showcasing 
their launches. They will require demonstration 
and explanation, both of which are the 
province of the specialist. We are seeing new 
entrants to our market, including mobile 
operators, and are extending our offer in store 
and online to provide our customers with even 
more choice. 
Our Channels and Locations
GAME delivers a specialist proposition that 
leads on value, product range and choice, 
service and loyalty across all channels.
Stores: With over 1,300 stores, we are located in 
all of the major retail locations in the countries 
in which we operate. Customers seek out GAME 
and Gamestation stores for our specialist teams. 
Suppliers value the marketing power of our 
brand presence, store displays and instore 
theatre. We are also trialling changes to the 
look and feel of our stores, including interactive 
kiosks, making sure we offer a powerful retail 
proposition as well as a place to play and 
interact.
Global Online: We have transactional local 
language websites in every location in which 
we operate and in the UK we have three: 
GAME.co.uk, Gamestation.co.uk and 
Gameplay.co.uk. Through our eCommerce 
offering we are developing our digital services, 
led by our well established digital download site 
which now features over 1,000 titles. We can 
also be reached through a GAME iPhone app, 
our new presence in PlayStation Home (the 
online portal for PlayStation 3 players) called 
GAME Moonbase, and a new social network 
site called Gamesnation. A new download site 
for mobile phone games is in development, and 
over the coming months we will announce our 
plans for other digital arenas.
UK and Ireland
We end the year with 677 stores across two 
brands in the UK and Ireland, and have 
maintained market leadership despite 
increased competition from supermarkets,  Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
23
GAME. Press forward
Where we sell
 
As at 31 January 2010 2009
 
Company owned and concessions 
UK and Ireland 
– GAME 423 443
– Gamestation 254 253
Total UK and Ireland 677 696
France 199 192
Iberia 283 258
Scandinavia 68 66
Czech Republic 29 22
Total Continental Europe 579 538
Australia 118 101
Total International 697 639
Total owned and concessions 1,374 1,335
 
Franchises
France – 1
Iberia 5 5
Australia 1 1
Total franchises 6 7
 
Total operational outlets 1,380 1,342
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 30. Key performance indicators.
Page 50. International management.
online retailers and new entrants to 
the market. 
In December 2009 we closed 19 
GAME concessions in Borders stores, 
and since the year end we have 
also taken the decision to terminate 
our concession partnership with 
Debenhams and announced plans 
to close 18 other stores. Our strong 
customer base of Reward Card 
holders enables us to contact 
customers and transfer the majority 
of the revenues from these stores to 
the next nearest GAME or 
Gamestation. There will be no 
material costs from these closures. 
We continue actively to review our 
UK store base, with a view to 
minimising store overlap and 
maximising opportunities from lease 
expiries, breaks and rent reviews. Our 
average lease length of six years for 
our UK stores is an advantage. By 
Christmas 2013, we expect the UK 
store portfolio to have been reduced 
to about 550 stores. In addition, we 
are investing to create the leading 
pc and video games website and 
download service in the UK.
Operationally we have continued to 
derive benefits from the integration 
of GAME and Gamestation. We have 
also rationalised our store and head 
office cost base which, in 
conjunction with the store closures, 
will result in savings of a further 
£5 million in each of the next two 
years.
International
We have opened 64 stores outside 
the UK and closed 7, taking the total 
to 703 at year end. In every 
international location we have 
grown our market share.
We will continue to open stores in 
the markets which give us the  24
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chairman’s statement continued
greatest return and can deliver further benefits 
of scale. We plan to open between 25 and 
40 stores this year, which is less than prior years. 
Iberia, where we are the market leader, remains 
our most successful international market, and 
continues to grow. Gains in market share and 
margin are encouraging, and we continue to 
open stores in select locations.
We are the market leader in the Czech 
Republic, and the business is showing good 
growth and potential for entry into surrounding 
markets. 
In Australia and France, where we are not market 
leader, we are reviewing the store base and 
brand proposition to ensure we can compete 
more effectively and deliver further growth. 
In Scandinavia, we maintain the appropriate 
portfolio and are rationalising the support 
function.
In all of our locations, we aim to support our 
store model with a leading eCommerce offer.
Treasury and Capital expenditure
Our net cash as at 31 January 2010, was 
£44.9 million compared with £81.4 million in the 
prior year. As noted above, the decrease 
reflects a change in the timing of supplier 
payments around the year end, and stock 
holding for January releases. 
In the 2010/11 financial year, average net debt 
is anticipated to be around £60 million 
(2009/10: £60 million). The Board is committed to 
an efficient capital structure and continues to 
review the dividend policy and a share 
buyback strategy along with continued organic 
or acquisitive growth of the business.
We anticipate that our total capital 
expenditure for the current year will be around 
£20 million to £25 million (2010: £30 million; 
2009: £53 million). Store openings and 
refurbishment requirements will cost between 
£5 million and £10 million. In addition, we will 
invest £10 million in Global Online on 
eCommerce and digital development and 
“Whilst we remain mindful of 
the challenging market in 
which we operate and that 
the current year will be a 
difficult one, the forthcoming 
new technology further 
enhances the profile of the 
specialist retailer. 
This, together with our value 
driven offer to maintain a 
market leading position, 
investment in new channels to 
market, and our focus on cost 
reductions leads the Board to 
be confident in the Group’s  
future prospects.” Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
25
GAME. Press forward
information technology, and approximately 
£5 million on distribution centre infrastructure.
The Board and Management 
The Board announced today that Lisa Morgan 
has stepped down from her role as CEO to 
pursue other opportunities. The Board and Lisa 
have agreed that this is the right time for a  
new CEO to lead the business through the next 
stage in its development. The Board thanks her 
for her exceptional contribution through her  
14 years with GAME. The Board has 
commenced a search for a new CEO and 
pending this appointment has asked Non 
Executive Director Chris Bell to take up the role 
of interim CEO. 
In light of the Board’s decision to commence 
a search for a new CEO, Terry Scicluna, UK 
Chief Operating Officer has informed the Board 
of his intention to step down. He will remain 
with the business through a handover period. 
Responsibility for the UK operating activities will 
be retained by Martyn Gibbs, former Managing 
Director of Gamestation, who was appointed 
GAME Group Managing Director of UK and Eire 
in March 2010.
In July 2009 Ben White (37) succeeded David 
Thomas as Group Finance Director, having 
been the Group’s Reporting and Investor 
Relations Director since 2005.
In January 2010, Jean-Paul Giraud stepped down 
from the Board after two terms in office, and 
Dennis Woodside returned to the USA with 
Google as VP Americas Operations. In the same 
month, we announced the appointment of 
Dana Dunne (47), COO of EasyJet plc, and David 
Mansfield (56), former Chief Executive of Gcap 
plc, to our Board as Non Executive directors.
The three new Directors bring a wealth of 
experience from different consumer industries 
and entertainment markets, all of which will 
further strengthen our Board.
We thank the Directors who have left us for 
their service and contributions to the Group’s 
direction and growth.
Employees
This has been a more challenging year for our 
employees throughout the Group, and I am 
grateful for their continued focus and 
professionalism. Our people are the heart of  
our consumer offer, and it is their dedication 
and support which helps us to give customers 
something extra in our stores and online.
Corporate Responsibility 
Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) is at the heart of 
our operations and strategy . We recognise that the 
way we operate within our industry and the 
communities that we share has a direct impact on 
our reputation and our brand. We are continuing 
to develop our CR strategy and stakeholder 
relationships with a view to ensuring that our 
behaviour and actions meet the highest standards 
expected by our customers and owners.
Current trading and outlook
In the first 11 weeks to 17 April 2010, the Group’s 
total sales were down by 13.3 per cent and lfl 
sales were down by 14.4 per cent. Excluding the 
impact of the launch of the DSi in the prior year, 
lfl sales were down by 9.1 per cent. Online was 
down by 3.5 per cent. This is in line with our 
expectations for the first part of the year.
In the UK and Ireland, total sales and lfl sales 
were down by 20.8 per cent and 20.1 per cent 
respectively. In our International business, 
total sales were up by 1.7 per cent and lfl sales 
on a constant currency basis were down 
3.9 per cent. 
Whilst we remain mindful of the challenging 
market in which we operate and that the current 
year will be a difficult one, the forthcoming new 
technology further enhances the profile of the 
specialist retailer. This, together with our value 
driven offer to maintain a market leading 
position, investment in new channels to market, 
and our focus on cost reductions leads the Board 
to be confident in the Group’s future prospects.
Peter Lewis
Chairman
21 April 2010
