 GameAccount Network plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 02
GameAccount 
at a glance
GameAccount Network has 
succeeded in highly regulated 
global markets where it has 
sustained a competitive advantage  
as a first mover and is successfully 
replicating this approach in 
regulated and pre-regulation 
markets in the US.
OUR TECHNOLOGY
Licensed and regulated by leading online authorities 
around the world including The UK Gambling 
Commission, The Alderney Gambling Control 
Commission, Amministrazione Autonoma dei 
Monopoli di Stato (Autonomous Administration of 
the State Monopolies) in Italy and the New Jersey 
Division of Gaming Enforcement in the US, 
GameAccount Network has developed an Internet 
gaming enterprise software system which it licenses 
to online and land-based gaming operators as a 
turn-key technology solution for both regulated 
real-money and simulated online gaming. The 
Internet Gaming System, developed in London under 
a UKGC licence, is certified to the highest technical 
standards currently required by gaming regulators.
USA
GameAccount Network has been 
developing its presence in the US 
since 2009 and established a 
dedicated US office in Las Vegas, 
Nevada in 2013. In New Jersey, 
GameAccount Network has 
partnered with Betfair to provide 
the complete Internet Gaming 
System enabling Betfair to offer 
regulated real money Internet 
gaming via BetfairCasino.com in 
association with Golden Nugget 
Atlantic City. In 2014, 
GameAccount Network secured 
Pennsylvania’s leading operator 
Parx Casino as a client for both 
Simulated Gaming™ and regulated 
real money Internet gaming in the 
event Pennsylvania regulates real 
money Internet gaming as their 
neighbouring State of New Jersey 
has done. GameAccount Network 
signed and launched Simulated 
Gaming™ for Empire City Casino 
in Yonkers, one of just two  
major casinos principally  
serving the greater New York 
Metropolitan area.
OUR PARTNERS
GameAccount Network has global experience 
working with partners in regulated markets around 
the world. Whether that’s full Internet Gaming 
Systems in North America and Europe, or partnering 
with the world’s best game content producers.  
We understand the need for a specific market-by-
market approach.
OUR CLIENTS
GameAccount Network has delivered enterprise-
level Internet gaming solutions specifically designed 
for land-based casino operators worldwide. Our 
typical client is a major well-established land-based 
casino operator with significant brand presence  
in their regional or national market. Simulated 
Gaming™ prepares the typical land-based casino for 
future regulation of real money Internet gaming and 
is comprehensively proven to generate meaningful 
income online and increase visitation by existing 
patrons to the operator’s casino property. GameAccount Network plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 03
For more information, please visit: 
www.gameaccountnetwork.com/investors
UK
Headquartered in central London, 
the team of over 100 gaming 
experts is equipped to be very 
responsive to the demands of 
current and newly regulated 
markets.
Italy
GameAccount Network operates 
an Italian Network for Italy’s 
eGaming operators licensed and 
regulated by the Italian 
government. 
Many of Italy’s leading eGaming 
operators are already licensee 
members of the Italian Network 
which is located on a hardware 
platform in Rome, Italy. 
The Internet Gaming System 
software developed by 
GameAccount Network is certified 
to the stringent technical 
regulatory requirements of the 
Italian regulator Amministrazione 
Autonoma dei Monopoli di Stato 
(Autonomous Administration of 
the State Monopolies).
Australia
GameAccount Network entered 
into an agreement with a 
consortium of six land-based 
gaming club operators in 
Queensland, Australia, to bring 
Simulated Gaming™ to Australia 
prior to future regulation of real 
money Internet gaming. Australia’s 
23 million residents are not 
currently served Internet gaming 
by established land-based gaming 
operators and Simulated Gaming™ 
is likely to find demand in a market 
which, much like the majority  
of the US, prohibits land-based 
gaming operators from offering 
regulated real money Internet 
gaming experience in support of 
their land-based gaming venues.
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
