 GameAccount Network plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 04
Chairman’s 
report
David O’Reilly
Chairman
Dear fellow shareholders 
Throughout 2014 the 
Group made significant 
investments preparing for 
the opportunities in the US 
comprising both regulated 
real money Internet gaming 
on a State-by-State basis; 
and nationwide Simulated 
Gaming™ delivered to 
land-based casino 
operators.
As has been widely reported, regulated 
real money Internet gaming in New Jersey 
has been slow to attract consumers for a 
variety of reasons. Despite challenges, the 
Group has executed well and delivered 
operationally for Betfair Group plc in New 
Jersey, earning a well deserved reputation 
in the US for technical competence 
reflecting the reputation already hard 
earned in Europe’s toughest regulated 
Internet gaming markets.
Your Board of Directors believes there  
is a significant opportunity for Simulated 
Gaming™ in the US. It has outperformed 
initial expectations and, in the absence of 
further State-by-State real-money gaming 
regulation, Simulated Gaming™ has 
become the centrepiece of the Group’s 
growth strategy. We signed three major 
land-based US casinos as new clients in 
2014 with two US casino clients 
commercially launched in the same period. 
Outside the US, the Group also secured a 
consortium of six land-based gaming clubs 
in Queensland, Australia as clients of 
Simulated Gaming™ in a new geographic 
region for the Group which we believe will 
prove lucrative over time. We are excited 
about the prospects for Simulated 
Gaming™ and the performance we have 
achieved since its initial launch. We are 
also confident in the long-term potential 
for real-money gaming, however, we 
believe adoption in the US market will be 
slower than was originally anticipated.
Our consistent progress in 2014, in what 
was an investment year for GameAccount 
as we developed our business and our 
Simulated Gaming™ offering, would not 
have been possible without the dedicated 
and talented staff employed by the Group 
in both London and throughout the US.  
I thank them for their continued efforts 
and believe the Group has now 
substantially completed the investment 
cycle required to become a major Internet 
gaming technology, infrastructure and 
services provider to land-based casinos  
in the US, consistent with the strategy 
espoused during the Group’s Initial Public 
Offering completed in November 2013.
We look forward to exploring further 
opportunities in 2015 and 2016 and 
building on our position as a leading 
provider of online solutions to the 
land-based gaming industry.
David O’Reilly
Chairman, GameAccount Network Plc
16 April 2015
