 GameAccount Network plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 12
Chief Executive’s
review
Dermot Smurfit
Chief Executive Officer
Overview
Following our successful 
initial public offering in 
November 2013, 
GameAccount Network 
quickly established 
infrastructure in the US and 
has emerged as a leading 
provider of Simulated 
Gaming™ to major casino 
operators securing 
significant US market share 
throughout 2014. 
2014 was a year of 
substantial investment, 
major opportunities and 
some challenges.
Substantial investment has been made in 
the US sales, marketing and operational 
structure to develop the Group’s US 
presence in both regulated real money 
and Simulated Gaming™ markets. In the 
UK further substantial investment has 
been made in the Group’s technology  
and hardware infrastructure. 
While intra-State regulation of real money 
Internet gaming stalled in the US and 
regulated real money Internet gaming in 
New Jersey materially underperformed 
expectations in the latter half of 2014, 
Simulated Gaming™ materially 
outperformed every key performance 
indicator and is positioned for significant 
profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
During the year the Group launched 
Simulated Gaming™ for two major US 
casinos located in Connecticut and New 
York, and signed additional landmark 
deals with Parx Casino in Pennsylvania 
and a multi-State US casino operator 
based in Michigan. Simulated Gaming™ 
has also been established in Australia  
and other International opportunities  
are being developed. 
In New Jersey, the Group delivered 
strongly for Betfair’s regulated Internet 
casino gaming website providing over 
seventy-five incremental games across 
desktop and mobile devices and 
establishing BetfairCasino.com as a 
significant Internet casino operator in 
New Jersey’s regulated Internet gaming 
market. During the second half of 2014 
the performance of BetfairCasino.com 
under-performed expectations principally 
due to the bankruptcy of Trump Resorts 
International, which had provided the 
New Jersey land-based casino licence  
to Betfair enabling BetfairCasino.com  
to operate online. I would like to take  
this opportunity to thank staff at 
GameAccount Network, the regulators  
at the New Jersey Division of Gaming 
Enforcement, the management of  
Betfair’s New Jersey operations and the 
operational management of Golden 
Nugget Atlantic City for all their  
support during Q4 2014 in assisting 
GameAccount Network to migrate 
Betfair’s technical infrastructure away 
from Trump Taj Mahal and establishing 
new technical infrastructure in Golden 
Nugget Atlantic City under the pressure 
of significant technical, regulatory and 
commercial deadlines.
During the year, the Group achieved 
strong financial growth in gross income 
derived from the US, up 98.6% to £3.5m 
(2013: £1.8m) driven by Simulated 
Gaming™ nationwide across the US and 
gross income derived from regulated real 
money Internet gaming in New Jersey. 
The Group delivered a solid performance 
in Europe with gross income increasing by 
1.6% to £19.9m (2013: £19.4m). Overall 
net revenue declined by 39% to £7.5m 
(2013: £12.3m) due primarily to the delay 
in securing a system sale in 2014.
Strategy
Expansion in the US remains  
a continuing strategic priority for the 
Group with requisite increases in US 
infrastructure centred on Las Vegas 
comprising human resource, technical 
hardware and licensing investment in 
relevant US States including New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania and Michigan.
With the significant slowdown in 
regulation of real money intra-State 
Internet gaming the Group has increased 
its focus on delivering Simulated 
Gaming™ to land-based US casinos in 
advance of further regulation. The 
outperformance of key performance 
indicators support the Group’s internal 
focus on delivering Simulated Gaming™ 
to as many major US casino properties  
as possible during the now extended 
period prior to regulation of real money 
Internet gaming.
The Group continues to pursue further 
Internet gaming platform sales with 
casino equipment manufacturers in  
order to enable land based casino slots 
manufacturers to manage the distribution 
of their content online.  GameAccount Network plc  Annual report and accounts 2014 13
For more information, please visit: 
www.gameaccountnetwork.com/investors
Investment in the Group’s technical 
capability in key areas such as back office, 
mobile and convergence with land-based 
casino management systems continued 
throughout 2014 with a significant  
growth opportunity identified in the 
expansion of the Group’s mobile gaming 
portfolio in HTML5 and native iOS and 
Android applications.
In Europe, the Group extended its market 
position in Italy with new clients signed 
including Bet365 Italia and Internet 
gaming content from NET Entertainment 
delivered via the Group’s technical 
platform located in Rome. Italy remains a 
crucial market for GameAccount Network 
as a comprehensively regulated Internet 
gaming market exhibiting continued 
growth throughout 2014 consequent to 
the regulation of Internet casino gaming  
in 2013. 
Products
The Group’s new back office system 
iSight Back Office™ launched 
operationally in the first half of 2014  
and major upgrades were released 
throughout the balance of 2014 delivering 
a state-of-the-art back office player 
management capability with unique 
convergence features designed to 
complement a land-based casino’s 
existing gaming operations.
The product related capabilities of 
Simulated Gaming™ took major strides  
in 2014 with a focus on monetisation of 
players and the introduction of gaming 
activity accelerants designed to extend 
player lifetimes, increase frequency of 
purchases and drive increased visitation 
to the US casino operators’ land-based 
properties. Leaderboard slot tournament 
capability and multiplayer games such as 
poker and bingo launched in the second half 
of 2014 resulting in a significant increase in 
both monetisation and stickiness.
The Group’s HTML5 casino gaming-
specific framework was substantially 
revised with the first new look and feel 
HTML5 casino slot and casino table 
games scheduled for release in early 2015 
together with a materially upgraded 
native casino gaming application 
consolidating games developed in both 
native application and HTML5 format 
within a single gaming App logically 
branded the single ’Online Casino‘ App 
for land-based operator clients. This 
major evolutionary step for the Group’s 
SENSE3™ mobile gaming proposition will 
support the Group’s growth opportunity 
in mobile in 2015.
A wide portfolio of new casino games 
were converted for online exploitation for 
major casino equipment manufacturers 
throughout 2014 with over 40 individual 
game client applications developed and 
delivered online in 2014 (2013: ten) 
bringing the Group’s in-platform gaming 
content portfolio to 175 comprising simple 
casino slots and table games, complex 
multiplayer bingo and poker and a wide 
range of specialist games such as 
blackjack tournaments and region-
specific card or dice games.
In 2014 the Group’s research & 
development function developed a 
comprehensive framework for delivering 
‘freemium’ mobile casual games to 
land-based casino operator clients 
exploiting the deep skill and expertise in 
the Group for developing skill-based 
games. The first product, a mobile  
casual game based on solitaire with over 
300 levels to explore and complete is 
scheduled for release in 2015 and relies 
entirely on in-App purchases to generate 
revenues from a minority of players who 
download the game for free and proceed 
to purchase in-game items designed to 
extend time-on-device. Variants of these 
mobile casual games, which can be 
played online or offline, will be released to 
the Group’s selected US casino operator 
clients in 2015 conjoined with the casino 
operator’s land-based gaming operations 
and existing loyalty programmes.
Marketing and support services
Throughout 2014 the Group continued  
to invest in establishing a wide range of 
secondary and tertiary services for US 
land-based casino clients designed to 
support the land-based casino operator  
in managing customers and growing 
through external acquisition marketing 
and internal cross-sell marketing to 
existing patron databases and on-
property human traffic.
Marketing and support services remain a 
crucial component of the Group’s service 
portfolio, ensuring any land-based casino 
operator can cost-effectively launch a 
turnkey managed Internet gaming service 
and, should they choose to, invest 
significant capital to grow profitably beyond 
its existing audience of casino patrons.
Dermot Smurfit
Chief Executive Officer
Top of our Game
GameAccount Network 
has evolved as a business 
to meet the changing 
iGaming landscape. As a 
publicly owned business  
it combines expertise  
and a ‘can-do’ attitude to 
respond quickly to clients 
and delivers quality  
products and solutions.
 ` Listed on the London Stock  
Exchange AIM (GAME.LN) and on 
the Irish Stock Exchange (ESM)
 ` Headquartered in London
 ` Regulated by The UK Gambling 
Commission, The Alderney 
Gambling Control Commission, 
Amministrazione Autonoma dei 
Monopoli di Stato (Autonomous 
Administration of the State 
Monopolies) in Italy and the New 
Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement
 ` A proud heritage in skill gaming 
 ` Experienced and proven  
management team
 ` Active in regulated Internet 
gaming markets
 ` Clients – blue-chip, regulated 
operators and leading publicly 
quoted companies 
 ` One of the fastest-growing  
tech companies in the UK
 ` Content agnostic and with the most 
thorough games portfolio available 
featuring best of breed products from 
the world’s best game manufacturers
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
