 Summary of results
We have enjoyed another year of strong sales growth (+£20.5m) which we have successfully converted into
cash (operating cash flow +£1.2m) and operating profit (+£4m).
Sales
Sales growth is a consistent feature of the Games Workshop Group story as the following chart 
demonstrates:
Total sales - £m
Sales in constant currency terms have grown in all key territories, with particularly impressive growth in
Continental Europe and the UK.
Sales by territory
cc - constant currency*
* Constant currency growth is calculated by comparing sales in the underlying currencies for 2002 and 2003, both converted at the 2002
average exchange rates as set out on page 13.
Games Workshop Group PLC 5
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
32.1
44.9
58.4
64.8
72.6
78.0
92.6
108.6
129.1
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
17.2
25.4
30.8
33.1
37.1
38.9
49.9
57.0
71.0
14.9
19.5
27.6
31.7
39.1
42.7
51.6
58.1
35.5
First half Second half
OPERATING REVIEW
Asia Pacific
+£0.6m (cc: +£0.6m)
Continental Europe
+£13.5m (cc: +£11.2m)
The Americas
-£0.6m (cc: +£2.3m)
UK
+£7.0m  In 2002/3 sales made through our own Games Workshop Hobby stores made up 46% of turnover, as our store
opening programme gained momentum.  We opened 28 stores during the year taking our total to 278 at the
end of May 2003.  The rest of our sales were made through independent retailers (47%) and direct, through
the internet and mail order (7%).  
The balance of sales made through the different channels varies between our various sales businesses: sales
in the UK and Asia Pacific are dominated by Games Workshop Hobby stores; sales to independent retailers 
represent a larger part of our businesses in the Americas and Continental Europe.
Sales by channel
Continental Europe
We have five autonomous sales businesses in Continental Europe, responsible for developing the Games
Workshop Hobby in France, Spain, Germany, Northern Europe and Italy.  We now have 81 Games Workshop
Hobby stores, up from 69 last year.  Each of these businesses enjoyed strong growth during the year.  The
Italian sales business, which is the smallest of these units, is in the process of relocating its sales function
from Nottingham to Rome.  While this will incur higher costs in the short-term, this move is necessary to
enable the business to develop the Games Workshop Hobby properly in Italy.
UK
We have 116 Games Workshop Hobby stores in the UK, and this business has enjoyed a remarkably 
successful year.  For the eight months to February 2003 the business achieved sales and profit growth well
ahead of inflation, which confirmed that we are able further to develop this, the market in which our brands
and products are best known.  Then DeAgostini, a third party business which had been granted a licence by
the Games Workshop Group to produce a serialised gaming supplement based upon our Lord of the Rings
tabletop battle game, launched its 'Battle Games in Middle Earth' product in the UK.  This product, which is
sold through traditional magazine and newsstand distribution channels, was heavily TV advertised in the UK.
Until then, sales of our Lord of the Rings tabletop battle games in the UK had accounted for less than 10% of
sales, as in all of our other territories.  However, from the launch in February onwards, we enjoyed an 
unexpected increase in sales in the UK, particularly of the Lord of the Rings products, which represented
over 10% of UK sales during the last quarter of the financial year.  We believe that this increase is due, at
least in part, to the DeAgostini product launch and we therefore believe that an element of these sales could
represent a ‘bubble’ effect which may not be sustainable in the future.  While the UK management team has
put measures in place to support and help the new entrants which this phenomenon may have introduced to
the Hobby, we are monitoring developments closely.
Games Workshop Group PLC 6
Independent retailers
47%
Direct
7%
Hobby stores
46%
Total Group
Continental Europe UK The Americas Asia Pacific
OPERATING REVIEW continued The Americas
We believe that the American market, which for us at present comprises the USA and Canada, represents a
great growth opportunity for Games Workshop.  We are therefore investing in that opportunity in three ways:
• During the year we opened 12 new Games Workshop Hobby stores, taking the total to 54
• We have begun the regionalisation of our US sales effort, establishing regional sales offices in the North
East (Baltimore) and the West (Los Angeles) during the year, with the Mid West (Chicago) and the South
(Memphis) opening early in the new financial year
• To support this sales effort, we have built a new supply facility in Memphis, which began operations in
June 2003
We believe that these ongoing investments will ensure that we have the necessary infrastructure to grow this
business significantly in the future.
During the year our sales to independent retailers and our direct sales in North America were sluggish, 
however, we continued to enjoy like for like growth in our Games Workshop Hobby stores.  This continues to
give us confidence in the long-term potential for this business, and in our investment programme.
Asia Pacific
We opened four Games Workshop Hobby stores during the year, taking our total to 27.  While this business 
mainly comprises Australia and New Zealand, we also have two Games Workshop Hobby stores in Hong
Kong and we opened one in Singapore during the year.
Manufacturing and supply chain
Our vertically integrated design, manufacturing and distribution supply chain has continued to operate 
smoothly during the year, responding very positively to the significant increase in demand placed upon it by
our sales growth.  To ensure that it can meet future demand, a major new facility has been built in Memphis,
Tennessee which will support both the North American and Asia Pacific markets.  This facility has opened in
June 2003 as a warehouse and distribution centre, and we expect to develop it into a manufacturing facility
over the next 12 months.
Warhammer Online
This venture, owned 71.25% by Games Workshop Group, was established to create a massively multiplayer
online computer game set in the Warhammer world.  Along with our partner, the UK computer games 
developer Climax Development Limited, we have progressed this project towards the beta testing phase of
the game, due to begin in January 2004.  During the year we have also established commercial relationships
with the various third parties required to market, distribute and operate an online game.  In particular we
have recently announced that Sega will be our marketing and distribution partner, ensuring that the launch
of the game into the traditional computer game channels will be handled by a large computer games 
publisher.  Overall progress on this project remains in line with our original plans regarding both cost and
timescale.  Development costs of £1.7m were expensed in 2002/3.
Sabertooth Games, Inc
In the second half of the 2001/2 financial year Games Workshop Group acquired an 85% shareholding in
Sabertooth Games, Inc, a start-up collectible card game business based in Seattle in the USA.  During the
year this business focussed much of its efforts on the launch in March 2003 of WarCry, its second game set
in the Warhammer universe.  It made sales of £1.0m during the year.  For this niche, fantasy card game 
publisher to be successful it needs to establish a regular flow of monthly product releases and this in turn
requires it to establish access to a portfolio of intellectual properties.  Over the next year we expect
Sabertooth to continue to publish games based upon the Warhammer and Warhammer 40,000 worlds, but
also to expand to some third party properties.  For example, it has recently signed a licence with Sony to 
produce games based upon the EverQuest property.
Games Workshop Group PLC 7 BL Publishing
This is our publishing business, which has grown up within the Games Workshop Group publishing novels,
comics and magazines based in the Warhammer and Warhammer 40,000 universes.  In the year, this 
business made sales of some £1.6m.  BL Publishing has recently entered into various third party licensing
arrangements to publish novels and other related products based upon other fantasy, science fiction and 
horror properties.  We believe that this business can build a small but profitable niche publishing portfolio,
applying its existing skills and infrastructure to a broader base of intellectual property.  In addition, it is a 
powerful enhancer and developer of existing Games Workshop Group intellectual property.
Other activities
We have granted a licence to THQ Inc, the US based computer games publisher, to develop several PC and 
console games based upon Warhammer 40,000 imagery.  The first of these games will be Fire Warrior, a first
person shooter game which is due to be launched in September 2003. We expect this game to begin to 
generate royalty income once launched. We continue to explore potential new avenues to create royalty income. 
Management team
Management development is still high up on my personal agenda.  I find it hard to improve on the words I
used last year.  "These results have been delivered by a management team which has grown enormously in
stature in recent years.  The team has to work co-operatively across cultural and national boundaries to
achieve both individual and corporate goals. This is inherently difficult and we don't get it right all of the time,
but what we do now have is a blend of internally developed expertise and recruited experience which gets it
right more often than not."  Just as we plan for the long-term, we recruit for the long-term.  This means that
we are looking for people who understand what we do for a living.  It's surprising how unusual this attitude is.
Workforce
Good management is essential in a good company, but so is a high quality workforce.  We are blessed with a
high quality workforce.  Once I would be able to talk to every person in Games Workshop and thank them 
personally.  Sadly, thanks to our success and the growth of the workforce, I am no longer able to do so.  I
would like therefore to use this annual report to send a heart felt thank you to all staff and I trust 
shareholders will join me.  
Health and safety
The Group's policy is to achieve and maintain high standards of health and safety.  We believe this to be a key
part of good business management.
The chairman and chief executive has overall responsibility for health and safety matters across the Group,
however the day to day execution of this responsibility is embedded into the roles of the general managers
and line managers in each business area.  Health and safety developments, initiatives and best practices are 
co-ordinated by the corporate social responsibility (CSR) group, which is chaired by the finance director and
includes the general managers of both the supply chain and the UK sales business.
We track the number of reportable accidents by business area, and the following table indicates the progress
we are making in our manufacturing activities, which we have assessed as the area of highest risk in our 
operations:  
Reportable accidents/1000 employees – Manufacturing Risk assessments are reviewed
annually, or when a change to a
process or to an item of machinery
is made.  In our manufacturing and
supply activities, compliance audits
of our policy and practices have
been carried out annually, or more
frequently if a new process has
been introduced.  The audit process
is now being included in the job
descriptions of line managers to
further embed health and safety
into the day to day activities of the
business.
Games Workshop Group PLC 8
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2000 2001 2002 2003
NATIONAL AVERAGE FOR MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY
REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS/1000 EMPLOYEES*
* Source: Page 36 of the Office for National Statistics, Health and Safety 
Statistics for 2000/01
OPERATING REVIEW continued To enhance further health and safety at all sites, extensive training programmes are being undertaken 
ranging from induction improvements through cell leader training to senior management responsibilities 
training.
Environmental performance
The Group aims to manage its operations in ways which are environmentally sustainable and economically 
feasible, and to minimise the negative impact of its activities on the environment.  In particular we focus on
waste management, energy use, packaging and recycling.
The chairman and chief executive has overall responsibility for environmental matters across the Group, 
however the day to day execution of this responsibility is embedded in the supply chain. Environmental 
developments, initiatives and best practices are co-ordinated by the CSR group.  
Recycling
During the year we have made significant progress on the reduction of landfill and the increase of recycling
of waste, particularly of paper and plastic, as set out below:
We have begun a life cycle analysis to ensure that we
can assess the impact of our products on the 
environment and upon energy consumption. We 
continue to explore ways of reducing the amount of
waste which our products generate for the end 
consumers by reducing runners on plastic sprues, 
re-using trays and ensuring full boxes are despatched
from our warehousing facilities, with investigations
continuing into packaging and new product 
development.  
In our manufacturing and supply activities, compliance audits of our policies and practices have been carried
out annually, or more frequently if a new process has been introduced.  These audits have been performed
following the ISO 14001 standard.
We have continued to work in co-operation with environmental lobby groups and non-governmental 
organisations, including Friends of the Earth and EIRIS, to assist in data compilation and transparent public
environmental reporting with a view to incorporating ethical values into our manufacturing principles.
Games Workshop Group PLC 9
Recycled cardboard
32% (2002: 33%)
Landfill
40% (2002: 64%)
Recycled paper
16% (2002: 1%)
Recycled plastic
12% (2002: 2%)
UK Waste Management 2003 Risks facing our business
Shareholders should take great comfort from the portfolio of businesses we run, and the different routes to
market that exist within each.  This means none of our business customers is individually significant and we
enjoy a degree of natural hedging in our currency exposures.
The main source of risk remains management error.  This is why management development is so important.
Future prospects
We believe that Games Workshop Group can continue to deliver linear growth in sales and profits.  As an
indication of the potential of the Games Workshop business, the chart below shows what our worldwide sales
would be if all the countries in which we already operate sold the same volumes per head of population as
the UK did at May 2003.
Extrapolated sales - £m
This is not a sales forecast but a rough indication of what the future potential for Games Workshop might be.
The directors believe the prospects for the business remain very good.
Tom Kirby
Chairman and Chief Executive
Games Workshop Group PLC 10
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
At May 2003 Extrapolation
UK Continental Europe The Americas Asia Pacific
OPERATING REVIEW continued
