 inteRiM ChieF eXeCutive’S Q&A
MOving t OWArDs A 
sust AinABle Business
As it cOntinues t O cOMMerciAlise tHe APPlic AtiOns Of its 
PrOPriet ArY tecHnOl Ogies , interiM ceO JereMY Pelc Zer Outlines 
His tHOugHts On sOMe Of tHe cOMPAnY’s cHAllenges AnD HOW  
tHe cOMPAnY Will cOncentrA te On Delivering KeY PrODucts  
t O tHe Different MArKets in tHe cOMing YeAr. 
What have been the biggest challenges 
faced during the year?
t he single greatest challenge has been 
the commercialisation of our eRS. We 
had underestimated the complexity of 
properly measuring the performance 
of our customers’ plants. t he nature of 
this complexity includes the day-to-day 
variation in plant operations and difficulties 
of measuring the improvement made 
by the eRS. to address this, we have a 
measurement tool which we are validating 
in our early adopter plants and we’re 
implementing a programme that will enable  
us to clearly demonstrate the operational  
and financial benefit that the eRS brings  
to a typical bioethanol plant. 
We have launched four businesses during 
the last two years; the challenge for the 
Company during the year has been to ensure 
adequate focus on its key markets to avoid 
resources being spread too thinly, whilst at 
the same time creating a new organisation 
structured around the selected lo Bs. 
A key lesson learnt in the past year has been 
to be more realistic, at this stage of the 
Company’s evolution, regarding the time lag 
between trials commencing and completion 
of commercial contract negotiations, based 
on the level of assurance that clients require 
for any new technology. Whilst the exciting 
aspect of PdX technology remains its game-
changing capability on a client’s cost base, it 
is also a fact that those same clients will want 
to test robustly this new technology.
Jeremy Pelczer 
Interim Chief Executive Officer
A year of progress
4  Pursuit Dynamics plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notwithstanding those challenges  
what progress has the Company  
made in the last year?
At the heart of our business lies the 
Company’s continued commitment to 
providing greater efficiencies and thus, cost 
savings and/or enhanced revenues to our 
customers and partners and this has been 
the year in which we’ve made progress in 
building the foundations for future success.
For example, our Bioenergy business is 
now trading actively, having made its first 
installations of our eRS technology in a small 
number of u S ethanol-production plants 
during the year. At the end of September, 
2011, our installed ethanol base was 314 
million u S gallons per annum (“mg PA”) at 
five plants. in our Public h ealth & Safety 
lo B we have developed two disinfection 
products which we hope to launch 
commercially during 2012 and through 
our Joint venture with n ational n uclear 
l aboratories l td we have secured our first 
revenues and envisage the development 
of a multi-product portfolio of nuclear 
decontamination solutions over time. the 
Brewing, Food & Beverage lo B developed, 
trialled and sold new products during the 
year and post year end identified two new 
products for the brewing industry. it will seek 
to roll those out to our existing customer 
base and beyond providing an integrated, 
energy saving front end brew house solution. 
in addition, we are making inroads into new 
markets including waste treatment in the 
agricultural and wastewater sectors, which 
it is hoped will improve biogas production, 
simplify water purification and reduce the 
quantities of waste sent to landfill. d uring 
the year we launched an industrial l icensing 
lo B and are running extensive trials in the 
fast-moving consumer goods (“FMCg ”) 
sector, where we are focussed on improving 
internal production processes. 
g etting to this point has required on-going 
investment in people and other resources, 
but it has brought us to a position where we 
are now poised to deliver, with a portfolio  
of parallel revenue streams ready to provide 
a growing return on this investment. 
o ver the past year, we have progressed 
from establishing loBs to actually operating 
with management to lead them and 
appropriate resources to support their 
activities. Plans have been developed and 
approved and we have products either in 
the field or primed to enter it, including new 
mashing, cereal cooking and disinfection 
solutions for the brewing industry and 
the ‘first responder’ decontamination 
backpack in our Public h ealth & Safety 
loB which were all developed beyond 
concept during 2010–11 to the point of 
market-ready products. We have customers 
or Jv partners in place in industries and 
sectors including brewing, bioenergy, food 
processing and nuclear.
How do you address the Health & 
Safety issues the Company faces, 
particularly given your dependence 
upon high pressure steam and other 
gases in your Reactor and Atomiser 
platforms and the range of hazardous 
substances and pathogens your 
product solutions are specifically 
designed to deal with? 
h ealth & Safety is absolutely central to 
the management of our business – all our 
employees and their families are entitled 
to expect that they will suffer no injury at 
work whether performing their duties on 
Company premises or at those of any of our  
customers. Similarly, all our customers and 
partners are entitled to expect that we will 
fully comply with the highest standards of 
safety, whatever industry they operate in.  
t his applies whether it be food and beverage 
processing, remediating waste products or 
decontaminating or disinfecting even the 
most hazardous materials with which we 
are presented. Because we work in so many 
industries and sectors, rather than apply 
a one-size-fits-all blanket policy to all our 
activities, we select those that best match 
the particular needs of each task, including 
detailed risk analysis, consulting with industry 
experts and carrying our failure-mode 
assessments. Just as importantly, we recruit 
people from the industries in which we work 
who are familiar with the relevant risk profile 
and know the right questions to ask. So, 
dependent on the task or sector, we have 
defined sets of documentation, processes 
and procedures and protective clothing. 
What are the key strategic goals for  
the business?
From a scientific and engineering 
perspective, our strategy is driven by a desire 
to commercialise applications based on our 
core Reactor and Atomiser technologies that 
will allow our customers to reduce the stress 
on resources affecting their organisations 
and the wider environment. this should help 
save costs and improve output and thus 
profitability for our customers at the same 
time as making them more energy efficient. 
in order to meet this ambition for our clients, 
our strategic objective is to strike the right 
balance between protecting margins and 
exploiting each market opportunity as 
effectively as possible. Whilst doing so  
we seek to develop a reliable and systematic 
approach to delivering solutions through  
the various stages of business development; 
from concept to product development, 
commercial implementation, and through  
to value creation and to do so as quickly  
as possible while managing associated risks. 
o ur current business/pricing model seeks 
to provide the framework for meeting our 
strategic objectives. We operate in a number 
of marketplaces, each with different drivers 
and financial priorities. in our view, there  
is no single pricing solution that suits all of 
our customers. For this reason we have 
developed three different financial models, 
which we will apply depending on the needs 
of our customers and our own views as 
to which are most appropriate in terms of 
making sales and driving our financial returns.
January 2011
Results at PdX’s installation at Pacific ethanol’s 
Columbia plant near Boardman o regon, u SA 
continue to confirm the stability, quality and 
viability of the ethanol Reactor System (“eRS”) 
with no errors or stoppages and with all sub-
systems working to design specification. 
February 2011
PdX announces that its Joint venture company, 
nd X Solutions l imited has now been established 
and is fully operational. 
March 2011
Formal terms agreed with Pacific ethanol 
Columbia ll C for the commercial operation  
of the eRS.
5  Pursuit Dynamics plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
operating and financial review governance Accounts Adding value through… Overview inteRiM ChieF eXeCutive’S Q&A Continued
•	 u nder our Benefit Share model, which we 
are already applying within our Bioenergy 
lo B, we will take a share of the financial 
benefits that the use of our technology 
delivers for the customer, in return for 
providing the eRS at reduced cost. 
Clearly, this necessitates the very precise 
measurement of those benefits. 
•	 u nder our l icensing model, we will charge 
customers a recurring monthly or annual 
licence fee for allowing our technology  
to be integrated into their systems at their 
cost. t he level of licence fee will reflect 
the agreed overall benefit of reducing 
process time and costs of production 
and increasing the quality of output for 
each customer product line in which our 
technology is to be used. 
•	 Finally, we can create products or solutions 
that we can sell outright to a customer. 
t his Capital Sale model is the approach  
we are currently taking with our brewing 
and food product offering.
during 2011, we refined our business 
strategy to focus increasingly on industrial 
l icensing as well as accessing new market 
areas including the waste treatment and 
nuclear sectors. We believe that this will 
allow us to build a substantial, long-term 
recurring revenue base from the existing iP 
of PdX and the considerable scientific and 
engineering knowledge and experience base 
that already exists within the Company.
What are the key achievements  
that you hope to deliver over the  
next 12 months?
i believe that it will be very important for PdX 
and its Shareholders, that we finally start to 
see some material returns on the investment 
of capital (both financial and intellectual) 
and effort that has been made over recent 
years. We anticipate securing agreements in 
the area of industrial l icensing, albeit some 
of these had been expected in 2010–11. We 
have recently identified two new products 
for the brewing industry and will seek to roll 
these out to our existing customer base and 
beyond. o ur bioethanol plant installation 
programme will be accelerated when we 
have agreed with our existing installed 
customer base that our baselining and 
measurement procedures show an agreed, 
measurable financial benefit and we start 
to receive revenue from those customers. 
in our Public h ealth & Safety lo B, proof 
of concept work is complete on new 
products which we expect to launch during 
the year. We are targeting the agreement 
of approved procedures for projects 
involving four different aspects of nuclear 
de-commissioning. We anticipate seeking 
regulatory approvals for our two potential 
new products in our Waste treatment 
business and will continue trials on a third.
i look forward to reporting on progress  
during the year.
Jeremy Pelczer
interim Chief executive o fficer
April 2011
Contract to supply a PdX Reactor system to a 
major european food manufacturer announced. in 
addition development and distribution agreements 
signed with Kärcher Futuretech g mbh .
May 2011
n ew agreement with Front Range energy ll C to 
install the eRS. t his follows announcements made 
in the previous 12 months with Pacific ethanol inc., 
Mid America Bio energy & Commodities, ll C, 
Marquis energy, ll C and Red trail energy, ll C.
June 2011
Agreement signed with Radeberger g ruppe Ag 
to install the PdX Wort h eater system into its 
brewery in Radeberger g ermany.
Agreement signed with Advanced Bio energy, 
ll C to install the eRS at its three plants in South 
dakota and n ebraska.
What are the key strategic goals for  
the business? continued
6  Pursuit Dynamics plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
