 ChAiRMAn’S letteR
investing in Our future
t he goal of Pursuit Dynamics plc (“PDX”) 
is to assist companies in a wide range 
of industries in making their industrial 
processes more efficient, by optimising  
the processing cycles and reducing 
the use of resources and energy. in a 
number of other markets PDX provides 
solutions to create a safer and healthier 
environment, for example in disinfection, 
decontamination and fire suppression.
PdX acts as a business creation, launch 
and management platform for a number of 
focussed l ines of Business (“lo Bs”). these 
aim to exploit the commercial potential of the 
Company’s growing family of patents, based 
on its two proprietary technologies, targeting 
global markets including food processing and 
brewing, renewable energy and public health. 
t he challenge remains to minimise the time 
lag between initial opportunity assessment 
and achievement of sustainable revenue 
flow. PdX remains in a phase of its business 
evolution where it now needs to prove its 
commercial applications at industrial scale 
within the next twelve months. 
in this context the year under review 
was an extremely important one in the 
development of the Company. i believe we 
will look back on it as the period when Pursuit 
dynamics plc started to come of age. t he 
commercialisation of the Company’s loBs 
continued, and we ended the year with active 
customers for several of our applications,  
first real revenue streams coming to life and  
a number of valuable potential opportunities 
on the verge of realisation.
Andy Quinn 
Chairman
2  Pursuit Dynamics plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 to get to this point, investment has 
continued throughout the past financial year 
in both our people and our products, aided 
by the fundraising effort in April 2011. i would 
also like to acknowledge, however, that 
despite the progress made during the year, 
the rate at which binding contracts have 
been signed has been slower than the Board 
had expected and revenues generated from 
those contracts have taken longer to emerge 
than anticipated. t hus the level of revenues 
that we believed, until very recently, we 
would be able to report for the second half 
of the year, have not been forthcoming. 
t he delayed delivery of revenue has been 
frustrating. h owever, in Bioenergy we have 
identified the issues in benchmarking our 
customers’ plant performance and have 
continued our engagements with our early 
adopters to validate the ethanol Reactor 
System (“eRS”) benefits. We’re installing a 
more precise monitoring system to better 
measure the impacts of the eRS. t his 
combined with a programme to optimise 
plant settings to exploit the eRS technology 
is expected to enable faster revenue 
generation in the future. 
in addition, within our industrial l icensing 
lo B, we have also experienced delays in 
concluding some important deals that had 
been expected in this financial year. it is 
worth noting that these opportunities that 
were not closed in the 2010–11 financial year 
still have on-going trials with results that 
remain encouraging in our drive towards 
commercial agreements. t hese timing 
delays mean that some of the income that 
the Board had expected to generate in the 
2011 financial year is instead expected to be 
recognised in the coming year and for this 
reason the Company’s cash resources are 
lower than the Board had forecast.
t he Board therefore announced, on 
15 december 2011, its intention to raise 
additional funds to provide the Company 
with the financial resources required to 
become profitable and cash generative. in 
order to allow all Shareholders to participate 
in the fundraising the Board has, following 
consultation with the Company’s major 
Shareholders, chosen to raise the required 
funds by way of an underwritten rights 
issue to raise approximately £9.38 million 
(£8.78 million net of expenses). t he rights 
issue will be made on the basis of one 
new PdX share for every eight existing 
PdX shares at a price of 100 pence per 
new PdX share, representing a discount 
of 50.8% to the Closing Price of 203.25 
pence on 14 december 2011, being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of 
the announcement of the fundraising.
in addition the Company has raised a further 
£1.8 million (net of expenses ) through the 
placing of 1,800,000 n ew PdX Shares at 100 
pence per share. t he fundraising will raise 
a total of approximately £11.2 million (£10.6 
million net of expenses ).
i am acutely aware that the patience 
of our Shareholders has been tested. 
t herefore i would particularly like to take this 
opportunity to thank our Shareholders for 
their continued support and understanding 
as our management and operational teams 
now start to deliver on the promise that the 
Company’s proprietary technologies show in 
its target markets across the world. i would 
also like to thank our employees for their 
continued support and dedication to the 
Company’s operations, in what has been  
a very challenging environment.
i welcome Professor Bernard Bulkin and 
Jeremy Pelczer to the Board and i am sure 
they will make an important contribution to 
our future success during the next stage  
of the Company’s development. i extend  
my sincere thanks and best wishes to 
Michael Ryan and Stuart evans, who left  
the Board earlier this year. Post year end, 
our Chief executive Roel Pieper resigned for 
personal reasons. i am pleased that Jeremy 
Pelczer, who joined the Board in June 2011, 
has agreed to assume the role of interim 
Ceo and will serve until the end of the 
current financial year whilst a permanent 
Ceo is recruited. Jeremy is an experienced 
executive who has held senior positions 
in engineering and industrial businesses 
including serving as Ceo of RW e t hames 
Water and American Water. h e is a non-
executive director of South Staffordshire 
Water and Chairman of WaterAid. Since 
joining the Board, until his appointment as 
interim Ceo , Jeremy has served as Chair  
of the Audit Committee and as a member  
of the Remuneration Committee. 
i also take this opportunity to inform 
Shareholders that i plan to resign as 
Chairman of the Company once a new 
permanent Ceo has been appointed and  
a replacement for me as Chairman has  
been identified.
l ooking ahead, we are highly aware of 
the execution skills needed to realise 
our commercial ambitions. We intend to 
concentrate our efforts on making our 
existing contracts profitable and in making 
the progress needed to fulfill PdX’s true 
potential in 2011–12 and during the years  
that follow. 
Andy Quinn
Chairman
3  Pursuit Dynamics plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
operating and financial review governance Accounts Adding value through… Overview
