 10 Gaming Realms plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2014
We have built a new range of 
products to enable users to  
gamble via new touch points  
such as mobile.
Chief Executive’s Review
Development
We are continuing to see a shift in  
player behaviour towards mobile play. 
We took the decision in November 2013 
to accelerate our expansion to exploit 
this market with the investment in our 
social gaming platform for real money 
gambling games on mobile. Our 
subsidiary, Bear Group Limited, obtained 
licences from the Alderney Gambling 
Control Commission and the UK 
Gambling Commission and launched its 
first brand SpinGenie in September 2014. 
This has been a major undertaking for 
the Group.
SpinGenie has been built to work cross 
platform and specifically for mobile 
acquisition and play. It has also 
accommodated social gaming elements 
of levels and rewards to encourage 
increased player engagement. We  
have been very pleased with the last  
six months growth on SpinGenie with 
over 22,000 new depositing players  
up to 31 March 2015. Over 60% of the 
players are registering via mobile or 
tablet devices and the easy sign up 
process has resulted in much lower  
CPA than we have been seeing in  
other casinos we have marketed. 
Such was the success that in March  
2015 we also migrated our existing real 
money gambling brand PocketFruity 
onto the new platform. This has seen 
synergies in terms of maintaining only 
one platform but also seen increased 
deposits and daily players since the 
successful migration. We are optimistic 
we can also see rapid growth from 
PocketFruity.
Marketing
A very important part of our strategy  
is being able to achieve a position  
as active market leader in terms of player 
acquisition. To this end we have acquired 
two award winning businesses; QTM is  
a specialist online gambling marketing 
agency which we have utilised to acquire 
players across our portfolio of brands. In 
the financial period, the Group marketing 
spend was £10.2m (2013: £1.75m) 
acquiring a total of 138,852 new 
depositing players at an overall CPA of 
£73.50. QTM also marketed a number of 
white label sites including a joint venture 
with Iceland Bingo.
In September 2014 the Group acquired 
BBH which brought with it a number of 
white label bingo brands and affiliate 
portal bingoport.com. With both these 
assets, the Group has gained a large 
database of valuable players who we are 
able to cross-sell effectively across all the 
sites in order to prolong activity within the 
portfolio of products. Since acquisition we 
have achieved operational synergies with 
the integration of BBH into the Group. 11 Gaming Realms plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
59% of 
registrations
61% of ﬁrst 
time depositors
from mobile
3.7x more 
sessions on 
mobile 
Licensing deals focussing on  
innovative content
Gaming Realms will to continue to  
invest heavily in marketing and grow  
the SpinGenie and PocketFruity brands. 
We will also continue to enhance the 
player experience as we add more 
unique content to the platform. We are 
excited by the potential for Slingo and 
aim to add more social elements into 
the gaming experience and further 
reduce CPA.
We believe licensing deals exemplified 
by the RealNetworks deal are of 
particular interest to our key market 
segment: the UK female market. 
This market has to date been under 
represented in the UK due to the heavy 
focus on Sports books. Early statistics 
support this hypothesis with 60% of 
players being female on SpinGenie 
as well as providing a higher revenue 
per player. 
Above all player protection is key
Lastly, as well as the focus on marketing 
and revenue, the Group remains 
focussed on providing the highest levels  
of player protection and fraud control  
as part of its ongoing UK and Alderney 
licensing obligations. We will continue to 
refine and develop this so as to preclude 
as far as possible both minors and 
persons prone to addiction.  
Patrick Southon
Chief Executive Officer
21 April 2015
Case study
SpinGenie
SpinGenie is the first brand to be launched on our new proprietary 
platform. The platform has been designed and built to target the mobile 
casual gambling market. We have seen 61% of registrations via a mobile 
device and 3.7 times more sessions on mobile than desktop. In total 68% 
of our active players have played on a mobile device. We have used the 
platform to add unique content such as Slingo and the Levels which has 
increased player engagement. 
The result has been an increase of 80% month on month for deposits and  
61% for daily active players. The cost per acquisition has been dropping 
with increased spends as we have been able to make changes to the 
product as well as optimise the overall spends per channel.
3.7x
more sessions on mobile
