 Welcome to Gamma’s  
inaugural Annual Report
Chief Executive Officer’s review
May I echo the Chairman’s 
comment in thanking the 
founding Shareholders  
for their unstinting support 
for the business for over  
ten years.
operators to provide a much broader 
range of business IT and communications 
services has given us the opportunity  
to work with a much wider range  
of organisations, from IT specialists  
to Systems Integrators. We have been 
particularly pleased to help many of  
our partners, including larger channel 
partners such as Alternative Networks, 
Capita IT, HighNet and Focus, to expand 
their portfolios and grow their capability  
in the UK business market.
Direct sales
The direct arm of Gamma’s business  
grew rapidly, particularly in the larger 
enterprise sector. This included  
some significant wins, such as Hearst 
Magazines, for whom the business 
provides all data, voice and mobile 
services. FCC Environment also selected 
Gamma to implement and support, for  
the next three years, a fully managed 
next generation voice and data network 
for their extensive estate. We were also 
awarded major multi-year infrastructure 
contracts from BDO LLP and Moore 
Stephens LLP .
In the public sector, where we  
see considerable scope for growth,  
the business has been particularly 
successful in the education sector,  
adding 25 academic institutions that 
include Oxford and Bristol Universities. 
We also became approved suppliers of  
fixed telephony services to public sector 
organisations, being awarded one of  
ten positions in the Crown Commercial 
Listing on AIM was an important step 
forward in the development of Gamma. 
Being a listed business raises the 
corporate profile of Gamma and PLC 
status increases access to business  
and public sector markets, both important 
growth opportunities. 
It was particularly pleasing to guide  
the business on a smooth transition  
from private to public ownership while 
delivering such a strong trading 
performance. The breadth and depth  
of the broader Gamma management 
team ensured that trading remained 
undisturbed, with the business having  
a record year.
Overall, revenue grew from £148.7m  
in 2013 to £173.2m (+16%) whilst gross 
profit improved from £53.9m to £67 .6m 
(+25%). Adjusted EBITDA grew by 34% 
from £17 .2m to £23.1m, while adjusted 
profit before tax increased to £16.7m,  
up 35% from £12.4m in 2013.
The outlook for Gamma remains positive, 
and we look forward to continuing the 
strong momentum in the business and 
delivering sustainable long term value  
for our stakeholders.
Channel partners 
With almost 80% of Gamma’s revenues 
coming indirectly from our channel 
partners, we were very pleased to see 
the number of partners that trade with 
us grow from 627 to 725 during the  
year. The clear trend amongst channel 
2014 saw a strong financial and operational performance  
from Gamma, as well as a successful listing on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM). 
10 Service’s RM1035 framework. Gamma 
also mirrored this in Scotland, being  
one of eight approved suppliers of 
telecommunications services via the 
Scottish Procurement Framework.
Strategic products 
Our strategic products of SIP Trunking 
(business grade VoIP) and Horizon (our 
hosted PBX service) have enjoyed 
exceptional growth. Our SIP product – 
which is a more flexible alternative  
to traditional ISDN – grew by 45% from 
161,000 to 234,000 channels during 
2014. With the consistent investment  
in automated processes that we have 
made over several years, the business 
has readily coped with order volumes  
at times exceeding 10,000 channels  
per month. During 2014 we introduced  
a number of service enhancements, 
including additional resilient options,  
and new pricing initiatives that bundle  
in the call minutes. Gamma is pleased to 
be recognised as the current UK market 
leader in SIP Trunking.
As businesses look to put more services 
in the Cloud, the traditional PBX is being 
seriously challenged by hosted services. 
Gamma’s Horizon product has achieved 
growth of 86% over the last year.  
With over 80,000 connected handsets, 
Gamma now has over 250 channel 
partners accredited to sell the product.
With both SIP Trunking and Horizon,  
the business has taken the significant 
step of bundling both calls and access 
connectivity into the service package; 
Exploiting existing services
 
Infrastructure investment
Introducing new services
Developing the market
Execution
creating both a one-stop-shop for service 
and providing greater certainty on costs 
for the customer. Indeed, for Horizon,  
this bundling has extended to include  
the fixed telephone handset.
Enabling products 
Gamma’s enabling services of ethernet, 
business-grade broadband, and mobile 
also grew significantly during the year.  
For example, the number of business-
grade broadband connections grew  
from 20,000 to 29,000.
Traditional products 
Margins on the traditional business, which 
we define as conventional wholesale calls 
and lines on TDM technology, increased 
marginally over the year, ahead of the 
general reduction in the market. We have 
significantly reduced our role in carrying 
traffic for the fixed line calling card 
market, which is being steadily displaced 
by targeted mobile offerings.
Corporate development
We were particularly pleased to finalise 
the consideration paid on our 2012 
acquisition of Varidion Limited at  
£3.6m by paying £2.6m in the year.  
This business unit, which provides more 
bespoke services for larger organisations, 
has performed exceptionally well since 
becoming a part of the Gamma Group.  
In 2014 it had revenues of £7 .8m  
and EBITDA of £1.4m. It is now being 
integrated deeper into the organisation 
in anticipation of strong growth in 2015 
and beyond. 
Introducing our strategy 
for growth, find out 
more on page 14
Gamma Communications plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
Strategic  
report
Corporate 
governance
Financial  
statements Chief Executive Officer’s review
Operational performance
With Gamma now providing services to 
a growing proportion of UK businesses, 
the quality of the operational services 
is absolutely paramount, and an  
area where the business seeks to 
differentiate itself from its competitors.
Overall, across all Gamma products  
the 2014 performance was above  
the service levels offered, although  
in a technical operation of our  
scale there were inevitably a small 
number of service glitches. In all  
cases the business has been ruthless 
in identifying and eliminating the  
root causes. Overall, the service  
trend has been one of continuous 
improvement over several years. 
Strong emphasis continues to  
be placed on the quality of the 
operational service, the elimination  
of risk and improvements in security, 
and to this end the business has 
maintained its certification in both  
ISO 27001 and ISO 22301. Surveys  
of customer satisfaction have 
provided very positive results, with  
a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of +29% 
for the indirect business and +22%  
for the direct – both excellent results. 
The performance of BT Openreach 
continues to be of significant concern 
and the greatest driver of complaints.
We are working with other BT 
Openreach customers and the OTA 
(Office of the Telecommunications 
Adjudicator) to drive service 
improvement for business customers.
Welcome to Gamma’s  
inaugural Annual Report 
continued
12 Regulatory
Gamma intervened in support of an 
appeal brought by BT at the Supreme 
Court regarding the termination rates  
for non-geographic numbers; we were 
pleased that the Supreme Court allowed 
BT’s appeal. Gamma now awaits the 
outcome of two follow-on cases before 
the Competition Appeal Tribunal in 
relation to its termination rates for  
these calls. 
Investments in product development 
Over 2014 we continued our investment 
in the core network. This latest 
generation infrastructure will enable 
more converged voice, data and software 
services, to support the growth of the 
business and reduce third party costs.
The business also continues to invest 
heavily in product development, with 
around 20% of the staff resources 
allocated to this function. With a broad 
product portfolio, much of the focus has 
been on enhancing the current product 
set. A key focus in the development of 
the Horizon Cloud PBX was the addition 
of soft clients for PCs and smartphones, 
and the ability to interwork the Horizon 
product with the customer’s internal 
systems – enhancing the service from  
a replacement telephony service to  
a more unified communications solution.
We have also launched a voice business 
continuity product enabling a business  
to immediately redirect all its incoming 
calls to a pre-prepared plan in the event 
of difficulty.
In December 2014 we made an 
opportunistic, but strategic, acquisition  
of equipment that comprise the ‘core’ of  
a mobile network, i.e. the equipment 
which controls the voice and data 
services used by a mobile subscriber.  
We currently anticipate bringing those 
assets into active use in 2016. This  
will give us both a reduced cost of sale 
and the ability to add more converged 
fixed and mobile services for the UK 
business market.
People
The average number of people in the 
Gamma Group increased over the year 
from 431 to 519 primarily to support  
the growth in product volume and future 
product development. In support of  
this growth we entered into new leases 
on properties in London and Glasgow  
to cater for the continued expansion  
of the business.
Once again Gamma was recognised  
as one of “The Sunday Times 100 Best 
Companies to Work For 2014”. As well  
as aiding recruitment and retention,  
the survey process has provided us with 
valuable and detailed feedback from  
our employees.
We were also pleased to receive the 
industry awards for ‘Network Operator  
of the Year 2014’ and ‘Best Fixed Line 
Network Provider 2014’ from Comms 
Business and Comms Dealer CNA awards 
respectively.
Outlook
And so to 2015, where our core strategy 
is to remain a leader in the high growth 
sectors of the business communications 
market (such as SIP Trunking and Cloud 
PBX) underpinned by absolutely the best-
in-class in terms of quality of service and 
with the best and most motivated staff 
we can hire. We expect the volumes  
to continue to grow in strategic markets 
(SIP Trunking, Cloud PBX etc) and to 
continue to decline in traditional services 
(phone calls and lines), with our margins 
continuing to migrate from traditional  
to strategic. 
The industry as a whole continues  
to undergo major changes, such as the 
proposed acquisition of EE by BT, much  
of it driven by larger players looking  
to take multiple service offerings to the 
consumer market. Gamma, by contrast, 
remains wholly focused on the UK 
business market and the Channel  
as an effective route to that market. 
Bob Falconer
Chief Executive Officer
Gamma Communications plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
Strategic  
report
Corporate 
governance
Financial  
statements
