 The past year for GTE represented a new phase of growth and development. Since its foundation,
GTE’s world class leadership, operational and technology teams have successfully created a
global, scalable company, which is internationally respected for its technological expertise, proven
leadership and strong growth track record.
Chairman’s statement
Overview
Achieving our objectives
Over the past few years, GTE has
grown rapidly. Through the integration
of several acquisitions, the recruitment
of top technology experts, the granting
of patents and the expansion of global
operations, GTE has gained a strong
position in the energy space.
2008 was a record year for GTE: solid
organic revenue growth and a robust
order backlog were achieved, and the
Company moved into proﬁt for the
ﬁrst time. Throughout 2008, GTE
continued to enjoy strong demand
across all product categories, and ﬁrmly
established itself as a leading player in
the global aftermarket for gas turbines.
Strategic steps
GTE consistently takes major steps
to strengthen and increase long-term
growth prospects, and 2008 saw the
Company continue to make strategic
operational decisions.
During 2008, GTE realised that in order
to service its growing customer base
better and meet increased demand from
its existing customers, an expansion
of its facilities was required. Over the
course of the year, plans were put in
place for the opening of our new 50,000
sq ft premises in Greenville, South
Carolina. The new facilities reﬂect the
rapid growth of our combustion repair
platform. GTE further increased its
US footprint by expanding the Control
Center facility in Florida from 15,000
to 40,000 sq ft.
In addition, the process was begun for
the opening of a UK operating company
and the move to new larger premises
in Sweden. These steps reﬂect our
growing customer base in the EMEA
region, and will help support the
services and repairs function.
As well as this physical expansion,
GTE also increased its service and
product portfolio with the launch of the
Fuels and Combustion product line in
January 2008. This launch positions
GTE for the signiﬁcant industry
opportunities expected to be created
by higher fuel prices, tightening
emissions standards and the move
towards alternative fuels. With this
platform, GTE has diversiﬁed its
customer base and we expect to see
this business line grow rapidly.
During 2008 GTE also saw rapid growth
in the Aviation product line. This was in
part due to the clear signals given out
by key players in the aviation industry
that the Pratt & Whitney EcoPower
®
programme is of great beneﬁt. 2008
saw endorsement of this programme
by industry leaders such as Southwest
Airlines and Singapore Airlines.
This acceptance meant 2008 was a
breakthrough year for GTE’s aviation
business, and is a key indicator of
potential future growth in this area.
A macro view
The global downturn in 2008 provided
challenges, but overall it has allowed
GTE to strengthen its position. In a
recession, products and services that
can reduce operating costs, reduce fuel
use, increase output and that can be
ﬁnanced out of operating budgets –
such as those offered by GTE –
remain attractive.
02 GTE ANNUAL REPORT 2008
John Bryant, Non-Executive Chairman
“The global downturn in
2008 provided challenges,
but overall it has allowed GTE
to strengthen its position.
In a recession, products
and services that can reduce
operating costs, reduce fuel
use, increase output, and
that can be ﬁnanced out of
operating budgets – such
as those offered by GTE –
remain attractive.” With GTE’s portfolio and market sector,
we believe GTE is relatively insulated
against the macro trends affecting the
industry, which include:
 Rising fuel prices.
 Stricter environmental regulations.
 The increasing use of
alternative fuels.
Growing concern about climate change
has led to unprecedented pressure on
the industry to reduce carbon emissions.
In 2008, this debate remained at the top
of the global agenda and the consensus
is that carbon emissions must be
reduced by 50% by 2050.
In addition, the EU is expected to impose
pollution charges on airlines in 2012
under the European Trading Scheme to
help counteract the growing contribution
by the aviation industry to global
emissions. The new US administration
is also highly likely to introduce a federal
cap and trade carbon scheme within the
next two years.
If so, this will mean GTE’s products
and services – which improve efﬁciency
and reduce emissions – will be even
more in demand.
03 GTE ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GTE’s family of EcoValue™ solutions provides
a combination of tangible beneﬁts to end users
in the form of fuel efﬁciency, lower emissions
and lower life cycle operational costs.
Paybacks are based on the “fuel/operational” cost
savings that can be visibly taken to the bottom line –
and can be achieved in 3-6 months. Secondary
beneﬁts of emissions reduction, environmental
impact, improvement and savings from parts life
extensions make GTE’s products and solutions
even more compelling.
Each EcoValue™ solution is tailored to a given gas
turbine conﬁguration and is designed to “plug into”
existing maintenance, repair and upgrade routines
for GTE’s customers, thereby making it convenient
to implement.
GTE will continue to expand its portfolio of EcoValue™
solutions to cover additional types of gas turbine
conﬁgurations, subsystems and geographical areas.
During the course of 2008 GTE held conversations
with many turbine owners and operators who know
the reputation of GTE’s engineers and are interested
in exploring whether GTE can make the same retroﬁt
improvements to ﬂeets of turbines that GTE achieved
for initial customers in North America.
Fuel
Efﬁciency
Asset
Operational
Costs
Environmental Chairman’s statement
Overview
Fuel costs and other competitive
pressures on gas turbine operators
continue to build. In the industrial sector,
GTE is seeing negative growth in a
number of mature economies and
slower growth in emerging economies.
The rate of increase for the demand
for power is expected to decrease or
become static. The logical extension
of this is that the building of new power
plants will be delayed, meaning the
servicing of existing plants will be even
more important. This will mean GTE’s
services and products will be in
demand and increasingly attractive.
GTE is also relatively insulated against
the ﬂuctuating oil price, as volatility and
limited supplies are driving operators
to use a wider range of fuels and
alternative fuel sources. GTE’s specialist
products can help companies improve
the efﬁciency and reduce emissions
of their machines, in keeping with the
speciﬁcations of the fuel they choose.
All of these macro trends have provided
a strong impetus for operators to seek
innovative solutions such as those
provided by GTE.
Protecting IP
The true measure of value at GTE
is customer demand for the solutions.
With this in mind, GTE puts a great deal
of effort into obtaining patents for its
products and services.
In 2008, the number of patents
granted to GTE increased by 100%
taking the total number to 16 with
an additional 17 patent applications
pending or provisionally ﬁled. The Group
substantially strengthened its technology
by investing US$8.4m (2007: US$4.0m)
in developing new products.
The Group also successfully defended
its strong intellectual property portfolio by
resolving a patent lawsuit in April 2008.
This lawsuit resulted in exceptional costs
of US$0.4m.
Since the foundation of GTE, a great
deal of importance has been placed
on the need to recruit recognised and
proven industry leaders and technology
experts. GTE has assembled a world-
class team with extensive turbine sector
and business expertise. This team is
held in the highest esteem throughout
the industry.
GTE’s efforts take place across several
industries and their respective segments,
but wherever in the world we go, and
whatever activity we undertake, GTE
is driven by a continued commitment
to applied science and a passion for
excellent performance and a cleaner
environment.
The Company is fully committed to
communicating honestly and openly
with all stakeholders, and to upholding
the highest standards of Corporate
Governance best practice.
I would like to take this opportunity to
extend thanks to all of our customers
and suppliers, and my colleagues at
GTE, for their ongoing efforts and
support. 2008 was a year of tremendous
achievements, and I look forward to
GTE’s continued success.
John Bryant
Non-Executive Chairman
04 GTE ANNUAL REPORT 2008
GTE Focus: Efﬁciency and Emissions
World Primary Energy Demand
0
500
1000
1500
2000
GTE Focus
Coal
Oil
Gas
Nuclear
Hydro
Biomass
Other Renew Source: IEA, World Energy Outlook 2007
GTE focuses on improving the efﬁciency and
environmental compliance of the vast global
asset infrastructure associated with fossil fuels.
2005–2030 1980–2005
