 5
20310-04  26/05/2011 Proof 8
Our Business
Chief Executive’s Statement
Jane McNally
2010: An overview 
2010 was a difficult year for the retail industry with rises in 
raw material prices, increases in the rate of VAT and harsh 
weather conditions during the most important trading period in 
December. In spite of these pressures I am pleased that we have 
made continued progress with our turnaround and that we have 
returned to profitability as a result. 
A strong foundation has been built. We have made good 
progress with our planned property portfolio reorganisation, 
exiting 51 onerous loss-making leases. We have invested in 
a turnaround of brand marketing and design with new brand 
environments for Dash and Eastex; rapidly expanded our online 
sales; completed 51 store and concession refits; achieved 
substantive new business growth and revamped our logistical 
network. These achievements are the cornerstones of the 
strategy that I initiated upon my appointment in 2008. 
Management
We continue to strengthen the top team. Kirstie Watson, 
formerly of Warehouse, Rubicon Group and the British Fashion 
Council, joined as Human Resources Director, replacing our 
previous interim Director. Giles Delafeld joined in January 2011 
as Group E-Commerce Director from Blacks Leisure, and senior 
e-commerce roles at Dixons Group and Lloyds banking group 
prior to that. At brand level the team was strengthened with new 
controller appointments on Alexon, Ann Harvey and Eastex.
Online Sales up 
144%
 We have made a solid start  
to 2011 with like-for-like sales  
for the first twelve weeks up 2.9% 
year-on-year. We are beginning  
to see the results of the turnaround 
strategy coming through. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank each and every 
member of the Alexon Group team for their hard work and 
dedication over the last year which has been instrumental in 
helping us make such good progress with our turnaround. 
Current trading
Whilst challenges remain, underlying performance is improving. 
The snow in December hit us hard, but we still saw a return to 
profit in 2010. We have made a solid start to 2011 with like-for-
like sales for the first 12 weeks up 2.9% year-on-year. We are 
beginning to see the results of the turnaround strategy coming 
through. With the exception of Dash and Minuet, all of the brands 
within our portfolio are performing in line with our expectations.  
Strategic opportunities
In terms of strategic objectives, there is a real opportunity 
to further increase profitability. This will be achieved through 
improving the mix in routes to market including further online 
expansion; rolling out enhanced brand environments through our 
refit programme; investing in improved store communications 
and merchandising systems to drive further improvement in 
net margin and stockturn; and pursuing a gradual strategic 
standalone opening programme for selected brands.
Future challenges
The outlook for the UK retail sector as a whole continues to 
remain challenging. A rise in the rate of VAT from 17.5% to 
20.0% took effect in January 2011 and inflationary pressures 
are giving rise to expected increases in interest rates. Recent 
announcements concerning austerity measures will also impact 
consumer confidence and discretionary spending. 
The combination of challenging market conditions and the 
reduction in revenue as a result of the severe weather conditions 
in December have impacted the Group’s ability to invest in the 
turnaround. Whilst the Group has continued to make good 
progress implementing the turnaround plan, the Board considers 
that a more appropriate capital structure would enable it to 
secure and accelerate the turnaround plan and is exploring its 
options accordingly. 
Thus, whilst 2011 will continue to prove challenging, we are 
pleased to have made good progress in implementing our 
turnaround plan and can see the underlying positive growth 
starting to come through. 
Jane McNally
Chief Executive
