 Alexon Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2011
www.alexongroup.co.uk 
Stock code:  AXN
4
20310-04  27/05/2011 Proof 9
Chairman’s Statement
Richard Handover CBE
In spite of the challenging macro-economic environment and 
the particularly difficult trading conditions at the end of last year, 
I am pleased to report that Alexon Group has made continued 
progress with its turnaround strategy.
This has been another year of hard work by everyone in the 
Company, with continued investment in all our brands. We 
have strengthened our online presence; introduced new mail 
order routes; opened 115 new concessions and completed the 
installation of a new automated warehouse management system. 
Our property portfolio reorganisation progressed well and we 
continue to look at ways to ensure that we have the correct 
portfolio to drive growth. Reflecting the continued progress made 
on our turnaround, we are pleased that the Group has now 
successfully returned to profit. 
In July, Avril Palmer-Baunack joined the Board as a non-executive 
Director. Avril brings a wealth of experience from her time as 
Chief Executive Officer of Autologic Holdings and previously 
Chief Executive Officer at Universal Salvage. David Adams joined 
the Board as a non-executive Director in September. David is 
currently Chairman of Snap Equity Limited and was previously 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director at 
House of Fraser. Prior to that he held Finance Director roles at 
Asprey and Texas Homecare and senior finance roles at the 
Burton Group. David is a non-executive Director at JJB Sports, 
Halfords and the British Retail Consortium (Trading), as well as 
being a non-executive Director and Trustee at Walk the Walk.
On 28 April 2011 I announced my decision to step down from 
the Board with effect from 31 May. I believe that very good 
progress has been made over the last three years and now is 
the right time for me to hand the reins over to David Adams. On 
behalf of the Board, I would like to congratulate David on his 
appointment as Chairman of Alexon. David has a first class track 
record and has considerable experience in the retail sector which 
is proving invaluable to Alexon. I wish him all the best for the 
future and I am pleased that David has accepted the position.
On a personal note, I would like to thank all my non-executive 
colleagues for their support throughout my term as Chairman. I’d 
also like to commend Jane McNally, the Chief Executive, for her 
work since her appointment in June 2008. Jane has ensured that 
the turnaround continues to progress well, and her dedication 
and commitment to the Group have been exemplary. 
There is no doubt that 2011 will be another challenging year for 
Alexon Group and the retail sector more generally. However, the 
company is in very good hands. I am confident that the work 
Jane and her team are doing to turn around the business will 
help ensure the Group has a bright future. 
Richard Handover CBE
Chairman
 This has been another year of hard 
work by everyone in the company,  
with continued investment in all 
our brands. We have strengthened 
our online presence, introduced 
new mail order routes, opened 115 
new concessions and completed 
the installation of a new automated 
warehouse management system. 
