 Nigeria
Côte
d’Ivoire
Cameroon
Gulf of
Guinea
Gabon
Congo
Angola
Equatorial
Guinea
02 g asol plc Annual Report and Accounts 20082008
At a Glance
g asol’s goal is to identify and secure commercially attractive 
opportunities arising in a frica following the end to the traditional 
domination of the gas chain by the oil and gas majors. Through its 
strategy of aggregating small-scale reserves, creating alliances in the 
gas chain, focusing on lng , using technology innovatively and 
building an experienced and well-connected team, g asol is ideally 
placed to become the premier a frica-focused gas independent.
200
tcf
estimated proved and probable gas 
reserves in the Gulf of Guinea
over
180
tcf
estimated proved and probable gas 
reserves in Nigeria
Nigeria 180.0
Angola 12.2
Equatorial Guinea 8.0
Cameroon 3.4
Gabon 2.2
Côte d’Ivoire 1.5
Congo  1.2
Untapped gas reserves (tcf) 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 g asol plc
Business review Corporate governan Ce Finan Cial statements s hareholder in Formation
w hy independent?
w hy gas?
w hy lng ?
w hy a frica?
w hy g asol?
Gasol is a gas independent, with the specialist skills and knowledge 
to exploit the changing marketplace. Through its focus on gas 
aggregation in Africa; its strategic alliances and alignment with host 
governments; its innovative use of technology; and its experienced 
board and management team, with their African expertise and 
relationships, it is well-placed to develop a substantial gas business.
Gasol believes the global gas market will continue to provide  
value-enhancing opportunities for the foreseeable future. Prices  
are currently at record levels in many markets and global gas demand 
is forecast by the International Energy Agency to grow at over 2% 
per annum to 2030, driven by economic growth and the demand 
for gas-fired power generation.
Given the depletion of US and European indigenous supplies, 
the challenge of building new pipeline infrastructure and the 
geographical distances, LNG is becoming increasingly attractive. 
Demand is set to rise by over 8% per annum to 2020. Moreover, as 
the LNG market becomes increasingly global, there will be increased 
opportunities to benefit from pricing arbitrage between  
the regional markets. 
As traditional reserves of natural gas decline and the large consumer 
nations seek new, secure sources of supply, relatively underdeveloped 
African fields become increasingly valuable. 
The robust commercial environment, together with improvements in 
technology, has allowed previously uneconomic gas finds to be 
aggregated and brought to market.
The Gulf of Guinea, with over 200 trillion cubic feet of reserves, 
nearly 90% of which are situated in Nigeria, is particularly well-
situated geographically between the large US and European 
customers and the rapidly-growing Far East markets. 
The competitive landscape has changed fundamentally; the producing 
countries want greater rewards from their resources, while barriers to 
entry such as technology and finance, which previously gave the oil 
majors almost insurmountable advantages, have been significantly 
lowered, allowing others to compete. 
