 06 g asol plc Annual Report and Accounts 20082008
Chairman’s Statement
for the year ended 29 February 2008
I was honoured to be invited to become Chairman of Gasol as it 
embarks on its new trajectory following the acquisition of the 
remaining 80% shareholding in African LNG Holding. The 
combined resources of the enlarged Group represent an excellent 
springboard from which to achieve our targets of becoming the 
leading Africa-focused gas independent.
“ The combined resources of the enlarged
g roup represent an excellent springboard 
from which to achieve our targets of 
becoming the leading a frica-focused  
gas independent.” 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 g asol plc
Business review Corporate governan Ce Finan Cial statements s hareholder in Formation
Gasol has an initial focus on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). This has 
traditionally been a business for the “big boys”: the oil majors and 
national oil companies. However, with the opening up of many new 
markets, deregulation and new technical developments, the LNG 
business has become global and very dynamic. This has created 
opportunities for smaller, nimble, independent players, not only in 
regasification, shipping and trading, but also in liquefaction. 
I personally have been involved in the LNG business for more than 
30 years, seeing it develop from an integrated, regional business, with 
very few projects and customers, to the multi-project, multi-
destination, fast-growing industry it is today.
Of the various LNG projects with which I have been involved, the 
Nigeria LNG project is a perfect example: who would have thought, 
after the slow and painful realisation of the first two trains, that it 
would become a shining instance of what can be achieved with 
positive cooperation between Government, local authorities and 
people, and the companies involved, contributing not only financially 
but also in the training and development of many local staff?
I look forward to seeing Gasol build on this kind of cooperation 
throughout West Africa, helping independents and local resource 
owners to create value for their assets. 
Finally, our future success depends on a strong Board. The 
appointments of Soumo Bose, previously CFO at Egyptian LNG, 
as our Chief Executive Officer, followed by the arrival of Rachel 
English, formerly in senior management at BG Group and Shell, 
as Chief Financial Officer, offer us precisely the executive experience 
and calibre required. I am also pleased to announce that Dr Charles 
Osezua, Chairman of the Owel-Linkso Group, a leading gas 
company in West Africa, and Mr Paul Biggs, a partner of Trinity 
International LLP, have been appointed as Non-Executive Directors. 
Gasol is further strengthened by the appointment of two eminent 
Strategic Advisors to the Board: Dr Rilwanu Lukman and, in June, 
Mr Ethelbert Cooper. 
Theo Oerlemans
Chairman
Opportunities now exist for 
independents in LNG
Value Creation through co-operation 
and sharing of strengths
Gasol management 
significantly enhanced
