 08 g asol plc Annual Report and Accounts 20082008
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
for the year ended 29 February 2008
The financial year 2007/08, together with the period following the 
year-end, represents a milestone in the evolution of Gasol. We have 
considerably strengthened the Board and management team; 
completed the acquisition of 100% of African LNG and 75% of both 
Afgas Infrastructure Limited and Afgas Nigeria; established strategic 
alliances with two major international organisations, E.ON (Europe’s 
largest integrated utility), and Teekay Corporation (the marine 
services company); and have built upon our existing relationship 
with Afren plc.
With these achievements in place, the Company is ideally 
positioned to build a substantial business along the gas value chain 
and it is with pride that I present my first review as Gasol’s Chief 
Executive Officer. 
“ w ith strong fundamentals in the gas and
lng business and key acquisitions, g asol 
is now in a position to take its business to 
the next level.” 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 g asol plc
Business review Corporate governan Ce Finan Cial statements s hareholder in Formation
“The past year has been  
a watershed for g asol;  
its acquisitions and 
partnerships have ideally 
positioned the Company to 
build a substantial business 
along the gas value chain.”
Our strategy is to monetise gas reserves in Africa, which historically 
have been regarded as stranded; we have an initial focus on Nigeria 
and Equatorial Guinea. Given the substantial reserves in this region, 
we see exciting growth opportunities. We intend to establish a series 
of partnerships involving gas gathering, liquefaction of natural gas 
and the shipment and regasification of LNG into high-value markets 
worldwide. We are also exploring synergistic gas monetisation 
opportunities such as Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) and Gas to 
Liquids (GTL).
The fundamentals of the gas markets and, within them, of LNG, are 
robust. Global demand for gas and LNG is forecast to continue to 
grow and prices are expected to remain at their current high levels  
for the foreseeable future. Gasol is in prime position to take advantage  
of this market, due to our expertise and knowledge of the African gas 
sector, where the aggregation of “stranded gas” discoveries now 
represents a particularly attractive business opportunity. 
During the period under review, Gasol acquired a 75% equity stake 
in Afgas Infrastructure Limited, which has development activities in 
gas aggregation and processing systems, and 75% of Afgas Nigeria 
Limited, whose activities are focused on gas infrastructure and other 
gas related activities in Nigeria. The combined cash consideration for 
these acquisitions was £400,000.
Since the financial year end, Gasol has exercised its option to acquire 
the remaining 80% of African LNG, a landmark development for 
Gasol and its shareholders, providing the springboard from which we 
will build a significant gas business in the Gulf of Guinea. African 
LNG brings a combination of business opportunities at various stages 
of development, relationships in the region, and a management team 
with significant experience in African oil and gas. The vendor, African 
Gas Development Corporation (“AFGAS”), and those acting in 
concert with AFGAS, now hold approximately 63% of Gasol’s issued 
share capital. 
Gasol – an African gas play
We have completed some  
important acquisitions
The gas sector continues  
to be attractive  10 g asol plc Annual Report and Accounts 20082008
We are actively developing key relationships and alliances with 
companies along the gas value chain in order to progress our business 
development activities.
Gasol’s strategic relationship with Afren plc – which includes our 
right of first refusal to purchase gas – provides access to a significant 
number of small-scale gas reserves in Africa. In March 2008, Afren 
signed Production Sharing Contracts for blocks OPL 907 and 917 in 
the gas rich Anambra basin area of Nigeria; OPL 907 contains the 
Akukwa gas and condensate discovery while OPL 917 contains the 
Igbariam gas and oil discovery. 
In January 2008, African LNG entered into a cooperation agreement 
with Afren and E.ON Ruhrgas AG to investigate the availability and 
accessibility of gas in Nigeria, with a focus on the Anambra Basin and 
South Eastern regions. The parties intend to develop, collect and 
monetise gas for domestic and export purposes, in line with the Federal 
Government of Nigeria’s Gas Master Plan and are working to evaluate 
the opportunity, focusing upon, inter alia, upstream data, and the cost 
of infrastructure development, the capacity of and technology to be 
used in any potential liquefaction facility, and the location of facilities. 
Gasol’s strategic relationship with Afgas provides an opportunity to 
work with Sonagas, the state-owned gas company of Equatorial 
Guinea, under a joint venture agreement to monetise gas located 
offshore. During the year under review, Afgas assigned its rights 
under this Joint Venture (subject to consent from Sonagas and other 
necessary approvals) to sell and market gas to African LNG.
In April, Gasol and African LNG signed important Heads of 
Agreement with Teekay Corporation, which owns and operates  
LNG carriers and other marine energy transportation and production 
vessels, to develop LNG capacity using floating LNG technologies. 
One of my first tasks following my appointment was to ensure that, 
in order to deliver our strategy, Gasol had access to the highest levels 
of skill and experience. 
In this respect, we are delighted to welcome Theo Oerlemans as 
Non-Executive Chairman of Gasol. Theo spent almost 40 years 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
continued
Gas aggregation and monetisation – Nigeria
Upstream – Alliance with Afren plc
Gas infrastructure and monetisation – 
Equatorial Guinea
Heads of Agreement for floating LNG  
– Teekay Corporation
We have strengthened our team 
We have made good progress in our 
organic business development 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 g asol plc
Business review Corporate governan Ce Finan Cial statements s hareholder in Formation
with Shell, developing and managing international gas projects, 
and has extensive West African experience. Theo himself has 
already reported on some of our other key appointments, including 
the appointment of Rachel English as Chief Financial Officer, 
which have significantly strengthened the quality and calibre 
of the Gasol Board. 
Attracting and retaining high quality staff is vital to our business 
success. Our acquisition of African LNG has already endowed us 
with a ready-formed team of professionals, considerably experienced 
in the gas industry and in African LNG in particular, and we will 
continue to build our management team in line with our business 
growth and strategy. Important additions to our senior team include 
Miles Thomas, appointed Company Secretary in June 2008, and 
Mike Burdon, who joined as Commercial Director of African LNG. 
Miles has experience advising on banking, corporate and project 
finance transactions at Latham & Watkins and White & Case. Mike 
was formerly head of the London LNG practice at Poten & Partners.
The year ahead is promising; with strong fundamentals in the gas and 
LNG business and key acquisitions in place, Gasol is now in a position 
to take its business to the next level. We expect to see good progress in 
the various projects and opportunities being pursued by the Company. 
However, we are building a business with long-term horizons, large 
capital requirements, and dependencies on host government policies, 
which means we also have various challenges to overcome. These 
include the increasing capital cost of projects, which has delayed 
several projects worldwide and the intensified competition from 
energy majors and sovereign states in the race for gas assets and 
energy security.
Gasol has an innovative business model and, with its strategic 
differentiators as a niche player, is well-placed to meet these 
challenges, convert its opportunities into successes and deliver  
value to shareholders.
Soumo Bose
Chief Executive Officer
Outlook and challenges
