 Highlights
01 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
 Completion of the acquisition of African LNG Holdings Ltd
in June 2008
 Successfully obtained the rights to develop and monetise the
Group’s first gas asset - the Zafiro gas project in Equatorial
Guinea - following a joint venture agreement with SONAGAS,
after the year end.
 Good progress in negotiations to access gas reserves in South
East Nigeria, including exclusive gas sale agreement negotiations.
 Successfully secured financing - £5 million in equity investment
in the period and a further £2 million since March 2009 as well
as a £10 million equity line of credit in June 2009. The Group
continues to pursue sources of further funding required for both
the short and the longer term.
 Strengthened strategic alliance as the exclusive mid/downstream
partner of Afren Plc (“Afren”), who also increased their stake in
the Company to 21% (as at 28 September 2009).
 Co-operation with Electricite de France (“EdF”) to assess the
feasibility of developing, aggregating and monetising gas assets
in the Gulf of Guinea for domestic and export purposes.
 Conducted successful initial feasibility study on bespoke midstream
liquefaction technology - Near Shore Production System
(NSPS™) under the technical advice of Mustang Engineering.
 Board and management team strengthened during the course
of the year including the appointment of Theo Oerlemans as
non-executive Chairman and Jean Vermeire to the Advisory Board.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Identifying the opportunities –
West Africa becoming a critical gas hub
02 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Why gas? Why Africa? Why Gasol?
We believe that the global gas market will
continue to provide value-enhancing
opportunities over the long-term.
Natural gas is considered by many today as the
fuel of the future.Years ago, when oil companies
drilled for oil and found gas, their efforts were
deemed to be failures as gas consuming markets
were often at great geographical distances from
production and developing projects.The gas, if
found with oil, had to be re-injected or flared:
standalone gas reserves were often left for
another day. As the “hunger” for gas grew in
consuming markets, LNG projects were evaluated
and, if viable, pursued. As oil prices rose and
production costs fell, LNG became more
economically feasible. Consumers with long-term
vision were willing to pay a premium to secure
clean long-term energy supplies from diverse
and reliable producers.
Until recently the growing demand for gas and
the decline in production in the main consuming
regions, combined with technological advances
and commercial maturity made LNG an attractive
and economical option.The recent trend of lower
demand and lower prices in the LNG industry,
together with temporary oversupply, has flattened
the sentiment in the short term. However, Gasol’s
view is that in the longer term the fundamentals
of the LNG business remain robust.
Due to the decline of traditional reserves of
natural gas in the US and in the North Sea, the
relatively underdeveloped and gas prolific
African fields have become increasingly attractive
for monetisation, As large consumer nations seek
to diversify secure sources of gas to avoid
overdependence on limited numbers of
producers, African gas provides a viable, secure
and strategic alternative source of supply.
The Gulf of Guinea region of Africa, with over 200
trillion cubic feet (“Tcf”) of reserves is particularly
well-positioned to supply to US and European
consumers and the rapidly-growing Far Eastern
markets. Nigeria alone is estimated to have 90%
of these reserves.
In addition, a large number of un-contracted gas
reserves in the Gulf of Guinea do not attract the
interest of larger national and international gas
companies because these reserves are normally
too small on a stand-alone basis to launch a
profitable gas project. However, these reserves
can be aggregated to larger economic sizes to
underpin LNG and other gas monetisation
projects.
There have been recent structural changes in the
gas/LNG industry: the local gas owners and the
national governments seek more stake and
involvement in the gas monetisation process for
optimum leverage from their gas ownership;
equally, the downstream gas consumers and users
(including utility companies, regasification terminals
and trading houses) have realised the need to
invest in the upstream and midstream projects in
the gas chain to secure long-term access to LNG.
As an independent player, Gasol is ideally placed
to develop gas projects through:
(a) its focus on gas aggregation in Africa
(b) strategic alliances with upstream and
downstream players
(c) alignment with host governments
(d) use of innovative technology
(e) our expertise. Our experienced Board and
management team have long-standing
relationships in the region and experience
developing gas projects in Africa.
Gasol is focussed on delivering its first LNG
project by 2014-15, utilising small-scale
liquefaction technology, which is cost competitive
with lower project execution time. Gasol is also
reviewing other gas commercialisation projects,
including domestic projects, such as methanol,
fertilizer and power generation in order to
balance its portfolio of project opportunities.
Gasol is focused on developing projects to aggregate and
monetise stranded gas in the Gulf of Guinea region of
West Africa, primarily via Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)
by utilising innovative and cost effective technologies
capable of rapid deployment. Gasol seeks to create value
by developing projects in the gas chain and by exporting
LNG from stranded West African gas fields to markets in
Europe, the Far East and North America, while also
developing domestic gas projects to add value to host
nations in Africa. 03 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
35
bcf/d
Nigeria produced 35bcf of gas per day
(equivalent to 31.5 million tonnes of oil)
in 2008, growing from 5.1bcf 10 years ago.
It represents 1.1% of the world production.
14.5
mt
Nigeria shipped 14.5 million tonnes of LNG
in 2008 (equivalent to 728 bcf), 71% went to
Europe and 22% to Asia.
*BP Statistical Review
39
%
Africa has an estimated 517.5 tcf of proven
gas reserves representing 8% of the total
world reserves; 39% of these reserves are in
the Gulf of Guinea.
185
tcf
Nigeria has an estimated proven gas reserve of
185tcf at the end of 2008*. It represents 2.8% of the
world reserves and 36% of the reserves in Africa.
Nigeria is endowed with the eight largest natural
gas reserves in the world, the largest in Africa.
