 Chairman’s Statement
06 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview Future demand
Introduction
After my first year as Gasol’s Chairman, I feel
pleased with the achievements of the Group
since the Reverse Take Over (“RTO”) with African
LNG Holdings Limited. Despite deteriorating
economic and market conditions, the Group has
managed to make progress in our main areas
of activity.
The economic environment
The last 18 months have radically transformed
the way gas start-up companies can do business.
From 2005 to 2008, financial institutions, natural
resources and utility players were eager to get
involved in energy projects and more specifically
LNG ventures, but we are now experiencing a
significant business change: the short-term gas
supply / demand balance has reversed, debt
financing is less available for early-stage
companies and private equity / venture
capitalists are more cautious in making
commitments to early projects. However, even
though the environment is more challenging,
there is still a strong interest for well-managed,
risk-mitigated, innovative companies.
The gas and LNG economics:
The economic downturn has led to an
unprecedented fall in global energy demand and
our industry has therefore moved from being
short in LNG a year ago to being ‘LNG long’ today.
Gas prices have fallen substantially and are
currently out of line with LNG construction costs.
This means that it may be difficult for some
project developers to take investment decisions
on new LNG capacity in the short-term.The likely
consequence of this is that we could be staring at
a new ‘LNG short’ situation post 2014 or 2015. Gas
is a long-term business, and one thing we can be
sure of is that gas will continue to be the fuel of
choice: projects must be developed to meet the
increase in future demand.The industry needs to
seek creative solutions within current economic
constraints.We believe that small companies can
often lead the way.The longer-term need for gas
in developed countries combined with the
potential of West Africa continues to support our
business plan.
The longer-term need for
gas in developed countries
and the potential of West
Africa to supply gas for
exports and to develop local
gas projects have opened
doors for small companies
such as Gasol. 07 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Niche player Economic and finance Outlook
West Africa potential:
In West Africa there are many stranded
un-contracted gas fields of below 0.1-2 Tcf.
Approximately 10% of these fields have a gas
volume range of 0.5-2 Tcf.These fields can form
the right resource base for projects such as
methanol, fertilizer or power generation, or with
some aggregation, can be the ideal gas resource
size for a small LNG project.This is where small
projects and small companies can create value.
The reduction in oil and gas revenues has caused
several countries to take a new, strategic and
realistic look at their resource sector.West-African
countries such as Nigeria have set out a new
framework under which companies who invest in
the country have to operate, with clear domestic
gas obligations of up to 30% of the new gas
produced.This represents a positive scenario for
companies such as Gasol who will be able to
develop gas reserves for LNG and other projects.
Gasol supports such Government initiatives and
we are fully prepared to dedicate a portion of gas
to the domestic sector and to develop our
projects in line with the Government’s priorities.
Funding:
In the present economic conditions, funding for
a small, AIM-listed company such as Gasol is not
easy. However, thanks to the continuous efforts
by management, and the support of our major
shareholders, in the last 13 months we have been
able to continue to secure sufficient funding for
our ongoing needs to date; however, as discussed
in the CEO statement, the Group requires further
funding both for the immediate short-term and
the medium to long-term.We have reduced our
ongoing costs substantially to match the more
difficult availability of funds. For the short and
medium term future we are pursuing various
potential sources of funding.We cannot at this
stage guarantee the success of these efforts as
obtaining the required substantial level of
funding for our projects will continue to be
challenging. However, we are reasonably
confident that with the right structure of these
projects, our efforts will eventually be successful.
This is discussed in more detail in the CEO
statement.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
FLARE
FLARE
Gas flaring is the burning of unwanted gas or flammable gas.
According to research, worldwide 168 billion cubic metres of
natural gas is flared yearly. About 13 per cent of global flaring
originates from Nigeria. Gas flaring not only wastes a valuable
resource, but is also a major cause of environmental pollution.
Nigeria’s and Equatorial Guinea’s governments have been
amongst the first to aim to eliminate unnecessary gas flaring.
Gasol’s performance and outlook:
Gasol managed to make progress despite having
to operate in such a difficult environment.We can
be particularly pleased with the progress in
Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria.This is largely due
to the continuous efforts and dedication of our
management and staff and the assistance we
received from our advisors and board members.
As a small company we are dependent on our
partners and host governments to continue their
positive cooperation and support. On this basis I
am confident that we can continue to implement
our business plan.
Theo W. Oerlemans
Chairman
