 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Business Review
08 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Strategy LNG industry
I am pleased to report that during the year Gasol
progressed in the development of the Group’s
long-term growth opportunities. Our unique and
distinctive strategy has enabled us to secure our
first access to gas (announced after year end), to
develop an innovative, cost efficient midstream
technology concept and to establish strategic
alliances and joint ventures with major players in
the gas chain and national gas companies.
The macro environment:
Despite a sharp downturn in the global economy,
natural gas will remain one of the world’s most
important commodities, central to long-term
energy needs. For a growing number of countries,
the importance of gas within the broader energy
mix is magnified further by security concerns and
climate change. Even though we may see a
decline in energy needs in the short-term, there is
clear evidence that the demand for energy will
continue to grow in the long-run, particularly
driven by developing markets.Whilst the global
LNG market remains relatively immature,
accounting for the delivery of around 7% of gas
volumes worldwide, it is expected to expand
rapidly once the current flattening due to the
prevalent economic conditions has passed.
Overview:
Shareholders will by now be familiar with our
core strategy: a focus on monetising stranded
gas assets in the Gulf of Guinea, either by
aggregation, liquefaction and shipment of LNG
to high-value markets worldwide, or by domestic
commercialisation projects to supply methanol,
fertiliser or power plants. It is a strategy that
Gasol is particularly well-placed to deliver: we
combine a deep understanding and experience
of the global gas market and the operating
environment in Africa, and we have developed
strong relationships with partners along the
value chain, technology providers, and national
gas companies and host Governments.We intend
to deliver small scale gas projects, which can be
quicker and cost effective. Alignment with host
nations and communities is also a key priority. In
summary, our strategy is designed to deliver
value to our shareholders over the long-term by
unlocking the strategic value of stranded gas.
2008-09 has been a central and strategic year for
Gasol.We have made progress on the four
cornerstones of our strategy:
• Access to low cost gas: successfully negotiated
(signed and announced post year end) our first
right to gas in Equatorial Guinea and made
important progress in negotiations to procure
gas in South East Nigeria
• Continued development of a cost-effective
technology concept: we have conducted initial
successful feasibility studies on the Near Shore
Production Solution (NSPS) which can be
deployed in our projects to monetise stranded
gas assets in Gulf of Guinea
• Creating partnership along the gas value
chain: we have strengthened and expanded
our relationships with upstream, technology
and downstream companies
• Strengthening our Board and Management
team: several key members have joined our
Board and our management team • Raise sufficient funding to meet our short
and longer term project and corporate
expense requirements
• Acquire gas assets in the Gulf of Guinea
• Start of the Front End Engineering Design and
Conceptual Engineering in our projects in
Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea
• Sign binding project development agreements
with partners
• Explore domestic gas monetisation projects
with shorter lead times
• June 2008: Reverse Takeover of African LNG
• September 2008: MOU signed with Electricity de
France (EDF) to jointly develop LNG project
• February 2009: Initial successful feasibility study
on bespoke midstream liquefaction solution –
Near Shore Production System (NSPS™)
• March 2009: Strengthening of exclusive alliance
with Afren plc
• April 2009: Gasol in direct joint venture with
SONAGAS in Equatorial Guinea
• May 2009: Access to gas in Equatorial Guinea
• May 2009: £10 million equity line of credit in place
• Well-defined strategy to monetise value in
stranded gas
• Progress in portfolio of opportunities
• Strengthened Board and Management Team
• Progress in negotiations to procure gas
in Nigeria
• Development of strategic alliances with
players in the gas chain
• £7 million raised from March 2008 to August
2009: £5 million during the period and a
further £2 million post year end.
2008-2009 highlights 2009-2010 key objectives
Our unique and distinctive strategy has
enabled us to secure our first access to gas,
to develop an innovative, cost efficient technology
solution and to work closely with major upstream and
downstream partners as well as national gas companies.
09 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Niche gas assets Technology
Access to gas:
Whilst for a long time, gas was seen as a hurdle in
the process of extracting oil, gas is now extremely
valuable. In West Africa, most of the gas has been
regarded as “stranded” as the fields are either too
small or isolated to justify development on a
stand-alone basis or the fields are owned by
smaller local companies which lack technical
and/or financial resources to develop
monetisation projects independently. By working
directly with upstream partners with access to
these proven gas resources such as Afren and
SONAGAS, Gasol is well positioned to secure
access to enough gas to develop a competitive
and quick to market LNG project.Various
commercial structures are under consideration -
Gasol can either directly acquire gas with one of
its upstream partners or enter into gas purchase
agreements while its upstream partner owns/
farms into the gas asset.The gas field
development is planned to be undertaken by
upstream partners or gas asset owners, with
Gasol negotiating access to gas at a competitive
price at the well-head. Gasol’s strategic objective
is to minimize exposure to exploration risk.
Rapid gas monetisation solution:
Gasol has been contemplating several
monetisation solutions for its various project
opportunities: in particular smaller scale
liquefaction technologies that would make the
aggregation of stranded and marginal gas fields
economically viable. Gasol has continued to
develop the concept of a barge based modular
Near-Shore LNG Production System (NSPS) with
technical advice from Mustang (a leading US
based engineering company).The NSPS utilises
existing technologies in storage, liquefaction
and transfer systems and achieves a highly
competitive cost per tonne. By virtue of its
simplicity it can be delivered and made
operational in a relatively short time frame
compared to conventional liquefaction
technologies: Gasol expects that the commission
and construction phase will be 3-4 years after
conclusion of the front end engineering design
study. Deploying the NSPS provides potential for
a high degree of local content using local
manpower, suppliers and service providers.
Delivering local content is often a high priority
with host nations in Africa. NSPS has the added
advantage of being scalable from 1 million
tonnes to 6 million tonnes per annum, with the
provision for an integrated gas to power solution.
The simple topside and storage design of the
NSPS is ideal for the benign sea conditions of
West Africa.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Gasol is also exploring technologies (other than
LNG) to be applied for monetising stranded gas,
considered too small or remote for LNG
aggregation play.
The next step is to agree with our partners the
technology deployment in our projects and
proceed to the pre-front end engineering and
design stage. Gasol’s objective is to adopt
whichever technology works best for each
project, whether it be NSPS or floating LNG or
other alternate solutions. Being a project developer,
Gasol provides monetisation
solutions to gas assets owners
by developing projects which
provide a route to domestic
and export markets.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Business Review
10 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
TEAM
Gasol’s board and management team are key in
successfully executing Gasol’s business strategy.
The company has brought together a team with
substantial experience in the gas sector, particularly
in LNG in Africa.
Strong management Partners
Strategic alliances:
As a project developer, Gasol plays a crucial
role in the gas value chain: we are focusing on
developing projects to connect competitively
priced gas from upstream owners to end
customers served by downstream companies
such as utilities, regasification terminals, trading
companies... or directly to local industry such as
power, methanol and fertilizer.
On the upstream, Gasol has identified several
opportunities to work in partnerships with gas
asset owners. Gasol has a strategic alliance with
Afren plc (the leading Africa-focused independent
oil and gas company) to pool complementary skills
to develop gas assets for monetisation in Africa. As
the exclusive mid-downstream partner of Afren,
Gasol has the right of first refusal to gas supply
from Afren’s portfolio. In addition, Gasol has signed
a joint venture agreement with SONAGAS to
develop gas monetisation projects in Equatorial
Guinea after the year end. Gasol is also exploring
further strategic tie-ups with upstream entities in
areas outside the scope of its current alliances.
On the mid – downstream side, Gasol has entered
into a cooperation agreement with Electricite de
France to pursue opportunities in the Gulf of
Guinea. Gasol is also in negotiations with several
other strategic partners and LNG off-takers to
develop additional opportunities in the portfolio.
Experienced and focused:
Gasol’s board and management teams are key
in making Gasol’s business strategy a success.
The company has brought together a team with
substantial experience of the gas sector and in
particular in LNG.There were a number of
changes to the Board and the management team
through 2008. Following his appointment as
Petroleum Minister of Nigeria, Dr Lukman stepped
down as strategic advisor to Gasol in December
2008. Charles Osezua stepped down in June 2009
to take over as the Chairman of the steering
committee of the Equatorial Guinea project.
Rachel English resigned late 2008 to pursue other
professional opportunities.They leave with our
thanks and best wishes for the future. Pursuant to
the reverse takeover of African LNG in June 2008,
Theo Oerlemans joined as the Non – executive
Chairman and Bert Cooper as strategic advisor to
the Board.We are also pleased to welcome Jean
Vermeire who joined as a special advisor in
December 2008. Mr Vermeire is currently the
Non-Executive Chairman of Distrigas, a leading
Belgium-based natural gas company; previously
Jean worked in senior management assignments
over 17 years with Chevron.
During the year under review,the management
team has been reinforced by senior,talented and
experienced people,mostly from leading energy
companies and consultancies. 11 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
We are actively developing
key relationships and
alliances with companies
along the value chain in
order to progress our
business development
activities.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Project opportunities
Our portfolio:
Gasol is currently working on project
opportunities in four countries (Nigeria,
Equatorial Guinea, Ghana and, Ivory Coast). Of
these, SENCO (South East Nigeria Project) and
Equatorial Guinea projects are relatively
advanced (though still early stage), with Ghana
and Ivory Coast being in the earlier opportunity
screening stage. Other gas monetisation
opportunities in Cameroon, Gabon and Congo
Brazzaville are under consideration.
SENCO is developing an integrated LNG and
domestic gas supply project with the objective of
monetising gas from identified core gas fields in
South East Nigeria. Currently negotiations are
ongoing with the multiple gas asset owners; once
procured and developed by upstream partners,
gas produced from these fields is planned to be
aggregated and processed, before distribution to
both a near shore liquefaction facility (for LNG
export) and large-scale domestic gas consumers.
The core gas fields have 2P reserves totaling
approximately 2.5Tcf, with potential to tie- in
nearby fields to increase gas supply to 3.5 tcf.
As per current project plans, the base case
liquefaction project is likely to have a capacity
of 2 million tons of LNG per annum, with a
competitive project cost and timeline due to the
application of small scale- near shore liquefaction
facilities. Gasol’s share in this project is under
negotiation with equity partners to develop this
project; negotiations are also ongoing with
upstream partners and potential LNG off-takers.
The project is expected to meet the various
criteria set out in the Gas Master Plan announced
by the Nigerian Government, including
obligations to allocate part of the supply to
domestic industry. One of the key objectives for
Gasol and our partners is to secure the necessary
financing to continue progress with this project
until the final investment decision.
11 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
In April 2009, African Gas Development
Corporation (Afgas) assigned its 50% share in
SONAF, a joint venture with SONAGAS G.E., to
Gasol.The company is now a direct equity holder
in the joint venture, which has been established
to develop gas commercialization projects and
associated infrastructure in Equatorial Guinea,
primarily to combat and monetise flared gas
with particular emphasis on Block B in the Zafiro
Development Area (“ZDA”). SONAF aims to
capture and commercialise gas currently being
flared in the ZDA. In June, the company
announced rights to first associated gas from
ZDA, estimated at 500- 750 bcf as per Wood
Mackenzie. Currently a study is being conducted
to establish an accurate estimate of the gas
reserves.Various project options are under
evaluation, including stripping out liquids from
the wet gas to generate additional revenue
streams. In the coming months, the joint venture
will be focusing on negotiations with gas
suppliers, off-takers, infrastructure providers
and technology partners with the objective to
achieve an economically viable project, which
should generate revenue from Liquified
Petroleum Gas (LPG), LNG and Natural Gas
Liquid (NGL).
