 Highlights
01 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 :e Group has completed a comprehensive strategic review,
with a commitment to:
 continue with its existing strategy of seeking to aggregate and
monetise stranded gas assets in the Gulf of Guinea, through the
liquefaction of gas and shipment of LNG to worldwide markets;
 develop a gas to power strategy in West Africa based, in part,
on a small scale LNG solution to provide gas for new electricity
generating capacity and, where possible, as an alternative fuel
supply for existing oil-<red power stations.
 Successfully secured <nancing - £2 million through the issuance
of ordinary shares and £1 million through the issuance of a
convertible loan note. :e Group continues to pursue sources of
further funding required for both the short and the longer term.
 Board and management team changes including the appointment
of Haresh Kanabar as non-executive Chairman and Ewen Wigley
as Chief Operating Oﬃcer.
 Continued development of existing LNG projects in Nigeria and
Equatorial Guinea. Strategic Review
During the year Gasol conducted a strategic review
which concluded that as well as continuing to
pursue the gas monetisation projects that are
currently underway, the Group should also develop
business opportunities, with partners, involving the
use of gas to generate electricity within the West
African region.The review considered that the latter
business stream could be developed in a more
timely fashion and would add incremental value to
the gas being produced by the former.Whilst the
two activities are complimentary, each can be
developed separately from the other.
Identifying the opportunities
West Africa becoming a critical gas hub
02 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Gasol is focused on developing projects to aggregate and
monetise stranded gas in the Gulf of Guinea region of
West Africa, primarily via Lique<ed Natural Gas (LNG)
by utilising innovative and cost eﬀective technologies.
Gasol seeks to create value by developing projects in the gas
chain and by exporting LNG from stranded West African
gas <elds to markets worldwide. Gasol also aims to add
value to its gas by developing, with partners, a gas to power
business within the West African region.
STRATEGIC REVIEW:
TWIN GOALS 03 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Why gas?
We believe that the global gas market will continue
to provide value-enhancing opportunities over the
long-term.
Natural gas is considered by many today as the fuel
of the future.Years ago, when oil companies drilled
for oil and found gas, their efforts were deemed to
be failures as gas consuming markets were often at
great geographical distances from production and
developing projects.The gas, if found with oil, had
to be re-injected or flared: standalone gas reserves
were often left for another day. As the “hunger”for
gas grew in consuming markets, LNG projects were
evaluated and, if viable, pursued. As oil prices rose
and production costs fell, LNG became more
economically feasible. Consumers with long-term
vision were willing to pay a premium to secure
clean long-term energy supplies from diverse and
reliable producers.
Until recently the growing demand for gas and the
decline in production in the main consuming
regions, combined with technological advances
and commercial maturity made LNG an attractive
and economical option.The recent trend of lower
demand and lower prices in the LNG industry,
together with temporary oversupply, has flattened
the sentiment in the short term. However, Gasol’s
view is that in the longer term the fundamentals of
the LNG business remain robust.
Why Africa?
Due to the decline of traditional reserves of natural
gas in the US and in the North Sea, the relatively
underdeveloped and gas prolific African fields have
become increasingly attractive for monetisation.
As large consumer nations seek to diversify secure
sources of gas to avoid overdependence on limited
numbers of producers, African gas provides a viable,
secure and strategic alternative source of supply.
The Gulf of Guinea region of Africa, with over
200 trillion cubic feet of reserves is particularly
well positioned to supply to US and European
consumers and the rapidly-growing Far Eastern
markets. Nigeria alone houses 90% of these reserves.
In addition, a large number of un-contracted gas
reserves in the Gulf of Guinea do not attract the
interest of larger national and international gas
companies because these reserves are normally
too small on a stand-alone basis to launch a
profitable gas project. However, these reserves
can be aggregated to larger economic sizes to
underpin LNG and other gas monetisation projects.
Why Gasol?
There have been recent structural changes in the
gas/LNG industry: the local gas owners and the
national governments seek more stake and
involvement in the gas monetisation process for
optimum leverage from their gas ownership;
equally, the downstream gas consumers and users
(utility companies, regasification terminals, trading
houses) have realised the need to invest in the
upstream and midstream projects in the gas chain
to secure long-term access to LNG.
As an independent player, Gasol is ideally placed to
develop gas projects through:
(a) its focus on gas aggregation in Africa
(b) strategic alliances with upstream and
downstream players
(c) alignment with host governments
(d) use of innovative technology
Gasol is focused on delivering its first LNG project,
utilising small-scale liquefaction technology,
which is cost competitive with lower project
execution time.
There exists a significant opportunity in West
Africa for supplying gas to generate electricity.
The region suffers from a chronic shortage of
power which we believe is most efficiently and
swiftly addressed by gas fired power stations.
Gasol believes that the opportunities here will
lead to the creation of a second revenue
stream in a shorter timescale.
In the long term the global gas market will
continue to provide value-enhancing
opportunities. The stranded West African gas
fields provide an attractive opportunity to
create value by exporting LNG to markets in
Europe, the Far East and North America.
A key goal that emerged from the Group’s strategic review was
to accelerate the creation of further income streams:
