 Chairman’s Statement
06 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Introduction
This is my first Chairman’s statement since taking
over the role in October 2009 and I am pleased to
report that, despite the challenging economic
environment in which we operate, I believe the
Group has continued to make good progress in its
operational activities.
The economic environment
Whilst the major economies around the world
appear to be broadly recovering from the
economic turmoil of the last few years, the business
environment for early-stage companies, and
particularly those seeking to develop capital
intensive projects, remains tough.
Gas prices today continue to remain relatively low
and no longer move in tandem with the price of oil,
which has risen with the more benign economic
situation. Lower energy demand and an increasing
LNG supply from new liquefaction capacity around
the world has resulted in the global supply and
demand balance of LNG remaining firmly in favour
of the buyer.Whilst this imbalance should correct
itself over time, improvements in the recovery of
shale gas will undoubtedly mean longer term the
price of gas is likely to reflect the greater supply.
However, gas remains one of the most efficient and
environmentally friendly sources of energy
available today, and the increasing demand to
cease flaring surplus gas at the wellhead means
that economic solutions are required for this
associated gas. Small, well managed companies
such as Gasol have a role to fulfill in providing this
solution.We remain of the view that in the longer
term growth in gas demand will continue
particularly from the developing countries.The
work we have been doing in West Africa with our
partners will stand us in good stead.
:e longer-term need for gas in developed countries
and the potential of West Africa to supply gas for
exports and to develop local gas projects have opened
doors for small companies such as Gasol.
LONG-TERM
POTENTIAL 07 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Strategic review
In the light of the challenging economic situation,
the Board decided to undertake a strategic review
of the Group’s business during the year.The
conclusion of that review, which we announced in
June, was that Gasol should continue its existing
activity of looking to monetise stranded gas
reserves in the Gulf of Guinea through smaller scale
LNG projects, but in addition the Group should seek
to add incremental value to that gas.
The developing gas-to-power sector in West Africa
has been identified as having the greatest potential
to add that incremental value, as well as producing
shareholder returns in the shorter term.Working
with our major shareholder, African Gas
Development Corporation, Gasol is developing a
detailed business plan based, in part, on a small
scale LNG solution to provide gas for new
electricity generating capacity and, where possible,
as an alternative fuel supply for existing oil-fired
power stations.
West African Potential
Gasol’s gas monetisation activities remain focused
in the West Africa region, where there are
significant numbers of stranded gas fields of a
suitable size for the types of project that Gasol
wishes to pursue. Gas reserves of this size, on their
own or in aggregation, lend themselves to the kind
of small-scale LNG projects that Gasol is focused on.
Despite the significant reserves of gas in the area,
the West African region has a significant shortage
of electricity generating capacity, and the regular
supply of electricity to the populace of these
countries remains a luxury that few receive. Both
governments and supranational organisations are
committed to increase the supply of electricity and
this represents the underlying opportunity for Gasol.
Funding:
Gasol remains a development Group without any
income today.The rate of cash expenditure is
monitored closely and the Board has focused hard
on reducing costs and minimising our outgoings,
whilst at the same time maintaining the
momentum on our gas projects. Funding during
the period has been through a share placing,
convertible bond issuance and debt funding,
primarily with our major shareholders and Gasol
remains very grateful for their continued support.
We continue to explore various potential sources of
funding for the short to medium term, but we
cannot at this stage guarantee the success of these
efforts as, we believe, raising substantial funding for
our projects will continue to be challenging.
However we are reasonably confident that with our
projects correctly structured, our efforts will
ultimately be successful. Gasol believes that the key
to the successful conclusion of the projects will be
the selection of the appropriate partners.
Board Changes
I took over as Chairman following the unfortunate
departure of Theo Oerlemans for health reasons
and we all wish Theo a long and happy retirement.
During the year, Charles Osezua and Soumo Bose
also stepped down from the Board to concentrate
on other opportunities and I would like to thank
them all for their contributions to the development
of Gasol.
We are delighted to welcome Ewen Wigley to the
Board in the role of Chief Operating Officer and to
run the Group in an executive capacity. Ewen joins
us from our major shareholder and has provided a
continued close link, particularly during the
strategic review.
Following the strategic review and the
confirmation of the business of the Group,
the Board is now seeking to strengthen the
management of the Group with experienced
industry professionals.
Outlook
Gasol is confident that it has the right business
strategy for the future.We have continued to make
progress, despite the challenging economic
climate, and believe that the fundamentals for our
business remain sound. I would like to thank our
staff and partners for their continued hard work
and look forward to their continued support as we
continue to implement our projects.
Haresh Kanabar
Chairman
7 September 2010
Nigerian and Equatorial Guinean
governments have been amongst the first to
aim to eliminate unnecessary gas flaring.
Gas flaring is the burning of unwanted gas or
flammable gas. Gas flaring not only wastes a
valuable resource, but is also a major cause of
environmental pollution.
