 Chief Operating Oﬃcer’s Statement
Operating and Financial Review
08 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Our unique and distinctive strategy has enabled us to
secure our <rst access to gas, to develop an innovative,
cost eﬃcient technology solution and to work closely
with major upstream and downstream partners as well
as national gas companies. Our comprehensive strategic
review has further re<ned and developed that strategy.
ACTIVITY AND
OBJECTIVES 09 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Overview:
I am pleased to report that during the year Gasol
has continued to develop its strategy of seeking to
aggregate and monetise stranded gas assets in the
Gulf of Guinea, through the liquefaction of gas and
shipment of LNG to worldwide markets. Gasol has
carried on working on developing all elements of
the business model from access to gas, through
technology for liquefaction to forging relationships
with off-takers in order to develop its projects further.
Gasol believes that natural gas will remain one of
the world’s important energy sources, not least
because of its relatively environmentally friendly
credentials.The liquefaction of natural gas in order
to transport it from the gas field to the consumer’s
market is a growing trend. Moreover due to
technological developments markets around the
world are recognising that LNG can be produced,
transported and used in smaller quantities as well
as the established world scale facilities that
currently exist.
Whilst the indications are that the worst of the
economic upheaval from that last few years appear
to be past us and the financial markets have re-
opened to the financing of new projects of the
type that Gasol is developing, the threshold for
achieving successful funding remains challenging.
Nonetheless we believe that with a robust business
model and working with strong partners along the
value chain, the business model we are pursuing
will secure the necessary finance which will lead to
the successful development of gas projects.
Strategic Review
Your Board decided to undertake a Strategic
Review during the year with the purpose of
reassessing all of the opportunities available for
monetisation of stranded gas assets in the Gulf of
Guinea, taking into account the speed with which
projects could be developed and the desire to
achieve early shareholder returns.The Review
considered the various options available for the use
of the gas, both regionally and internationally, and
how it could be transported to the market.The
Review also considered the global supply and
demand economics for natural gas and it became
apparent that whilst the current low market price
on LNG will over time undoubtedly recover, Gasol
should try to seek further benefit from the gas by
moving along the value chain.
The Review’s conclusion was two-fold: (a) that the
Group should continue with the gas monetisation
policy that has been pursued to date based on
seeking to liquify stranded gas assets, whilst (b)
pursuing opportunities to develop a business in
the gas-to-power sector in West Africa.The Group
is now working, in conjunction with our major
shareholder, on a detailed business plan that is
based, in part, on a small-scale LNG solution to
provide gas for new electricity generating capacity
and, where possible, as an alternative fuel supply for
existing oil-fired power stations. At the same time,
Gasol has continued to work on the existing
projects based on securing access to enable the
liquefaction of stranded gas assets.Whilst the
successful delivery of our strategy will enable each
of these two areas to be a business in their own
right, they are also complimentary and can be
integrated in due course.
Business
During the year the Group has continued to focus
on all the elements of the gas monetisation strategy.
Access to gas will be achieved by working with
upstream partners such as Afren Plc and SONAGAS,
who have gas reserves in sufficient quantities to
develop economic gas projects. Gasol intends to
leave the gas field development to its upstream
partners and purchase gas at the well-head at a
competitive price. Nonetheless it is working closely
with its partners to identify gas assets that can be
used for the Gasol model.
Gasol together with partners has developed
the concept of a near shore barge-mounted
liquefaction production system as one technology
to produce the LNG close to the wellhead.
The Group is also considering other suppliers of
technologies, including other floating options, with
the ultimate choice being based on the volumes of
gas available, project economics and the time to
delivery for the technology.
The current low price of LNG traded in international
markets, arising from the short-term oversupply
position, has created challenges in securing long-
term contracts for buyers of LNG. Gasol is exploring
a number of options with potential strategic
partners with a view to completing the value chain.
One of the alternatives will be to supply LNG into
the gas-to-power business that has been identified
from the Strategic Review.
2010-2011 Key Objectives
• Raise sufficient funding to meet our short
and longer term project and corporate
expense requirements
• Crystallise gas to power strategy into a
business plan
• Acquire gas assets in the Gulf of Guinea
• Continue project development work
in Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea
2009-2010 Key Activities
• The Group has completed a comprehensive
strategic review, with a commitment to:
• continue with its existing strategy of seeking to
aggregate and monetise stranded gas assets in
the Gulf of Guinea, through the liquefaction of
gas and shipment of LNG to worldwide markets;
• develop a gas to power strategy in West Africa
based, in part, on a small scale LNG solution to
provide gas for new electricity generating
capacity and, where possible, as an alternative
fuel supply for existing oil-fired power stations.
• Successfully secured financing - £2 million
through the issuance of ordinary shares
and £1 million through the issuance of a
convertible loan note.
• Board and management team changes
including the appointment of Haresh Kanabar
as non-executive Chairman and Ewen Wigley
as Chief Operating Officer.
• Continued development of existing LNG
projects in Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea. Chief Operating Oﬃcer’s Statement
Operating and Financial Review
10 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
To accelerate the creation of multiple income streams
Gasol’s board and management team are key in successfully
executing Gasol’s business strategy. :e Group has brought
together a team with substantial experience in the gas sector,
particularly in LNG in Africa, applying particular focus to
recently identi<ed opportunities to create value through the
supply of gas for power generation.
Whilst the economic environment and the energy/LNG
sector have been challenging over the last year and the
short-term gas economics are relatively weak, the longer
term gas fundamentals are robust and Gasol expects to show
further progress in the coming year.
FOCUS AND
VALUE Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
11 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial Results:
The financial statements reflect the fact that Gasol
is in its development stage which is investing time
and money in accessing gas monetisation projects.
At present the Group has no income from trading
activities.The loss after tax for the financial year is
£5.08 million (2009 loss of £7.18 million), equating
to a loss of 0.47 pence per share (2009: loss of 1.08
pence), principally represents the administrative
costs of undertaking the project development.
Cash expenditure on operating activities during
the year was £3.84 million (2009: £5.57 million).
Careful attention has been paid during the year to
managing costs and cutting out unnecessary
expenditure, whilst ensuring that business
development remains unaffected.The full benefit of
this cost cutting will be felt in the next financial year.
During the year, the Group has raised £3 million
through capital instruments. £2 million was raised
through equity placings in May and August 2009
with our major shareholders African Gas
Development Corporation and Afren Plc, whilst a
further £1 million was raised through the issuance
of a convertible loan note. In June 2009 a £10
million equity line of credit with GEM Global Yield
Fund has been put in place.The ability to draw
funds depends, among other factors, on the share
price and trading volumes, both of which are
outside the Group’s control. Since the year end,
Gasol has entered into a £1 million loan facility, also
with African Gas Development Corporation.
As outlined within note 1, the Group has reassessed
the accounting approach that was adopted for the
acquisition by Gasol of African LNG Holdings
Limited following discussions with the Financial
Reporting Review Panel. In consequence, the
comparative financial statements have been
restated with an additional second year of
comparative Statement of Financial Position also
being included.
Management & Staff
The past year has seen changes both on the
Board and within the management at Gasol. The
challenges for a Group like Gasol in developing
projects are considerable in this current economic
climate and I would like to take the opportunity to
thank all staff who have continued to work hard
throughout the year in turning the Gasol vision into
a reality.
Outlook and Challenges
Gasol needs, and continues to seek, sources of short
term funding in order to progress the development
of its projects and bring them to the position of
final investment decision, and beyond. Gas projects,
of the type that Gasol is developing, are large scale
and capital intensive.Whilst much of the project
cost will be met by bank finance, Gasol will need to
find finance for the remaining funding requirements.
Gasol is developing a number of strategies to meet
these funding costs including working with
strategic commercial and financial partners. It is
likely that some of the risk and reward of the
projects will be shared with other parties.
The Group believes that the business model is
sound and that, despite the current low price of
gas, the future prospects of the gas market are
positive. Moreover the opportunities that are
available in the gas-to-power sector within
West Africa will also provide good attractive
opportunities for Gasol.The future of Gasol
depends on its ability to successfully raise funding
for project development and execution, together
with its ability to manage the risks that are normal
in such gas projects.
Ewen Wigley
Chief Operating Officer
7 September 2010
We are actively developing key relationships
and alliances with companies along the value
chain in order to progress our business
development activities.
We have a focused strategy and a strong team
- these will stand us in good stead to face
current challenges and to deliver long term
value to our shareholders.
Being a project developer, Gasol provides
monetisation solutions to gas assets owners
by developing projects which provide a route
to domestic and export markets.
