 Activity and Objectives
Chief Operating Officer’s Statement
Operating and Financial Review
08 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Our unique and distinctive strategy has enabled
us to secure our first access to gas, to develop an
innovative, cost efficient technology solution
and to work closely with major upstream and
downstream partners as well as national gas
companies. Our comprehensive strategic review
has further refined and developed that strategy. 09 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview:
I am pleased to report that, following the
announcement of the results of the strategic
review in May 2010, Gasol has continued to focus
on the development of gas projects that will clearly
meet the new strategy.Whilst the overall strategy
remains, seeking to aggregate and monetise
stranded gas assets in the Gulf of Guinea through
the liquefaction of gas, the company’s aim is now
to use that LNG within a regional gas-to-power
program. Gasol is continuing to work on the various
elements of the business model, although always
aware that LNG may be bought or sold in the
international markets and therefore recognising all
of the elements do not need to be concluded at
the same time.
The liquefaction of natural gas in order to transport
it from the gas field to the consumer’s market has
taken place for many years at an international level
and on a large scale, and it recognised as providing
a cost effective method of transporting the gas
where pipelines are not available.There has also
been a more recent move to utilise LNG at a much
smaller scale moving it by rail or road tanker and
small ship before regasification at a local level.
This technology is now used in a number of
situations around the world, providing a fuel to gas
constrained environments where demand cannot
justify the expense of construction of a pipeline
distribution network. Gasol is seeking to utilise this
technology in the West African region.
The financial markets remain challenging with
uncertainty over both economic growth and the
debt levels, and as a result financing capital projects
remains difficult. However, Gasol believes that with
its more focussed strategy, developing robust
projects, and working with strong partners, will
allow the company to secure the necessary finance
that will lead to the successful development of our
gas business.
Strategic Review
The Board completed the Strategic Review and
announced the results at the beginning of the
financial year.The underlying message from that
review was that proposed business of Gasol should
move further downstream in the value chain.
More specifically the Review’s conclusion was
two-fold:
a) that the Group should continue with the gas
monetisation policy that has been pursued to date
based on seeking to monetise stranded gas assets,
primarily through liquefaction of the gas; whilst also
b) pursuing opportunities to develop a business
in the gas-to-power sector in West Africa.
Business
Nigeria
In May 2011, Gasol announced that had entered
into an exclusive Project Option Agreement with
Moni Pulo (Petroleum Development) Limited in
respect of all of the gas in Nigerian offshore licence
area, OML 114. Under the terms of the option
agreement, there is an exclusivity period during
which Gasol has an opportunity to make a proposal
to Moni Pulo regarding the development of OML
114, including exploration, development and
offtake. If Moni Pulo accepts the proposal from
Gasol, it is then the intention of the parties to work
together to conclude definitive gas purchase
agreements for development and sale of all of the
gas in OML 114 to Gasol.
OML114 is situated in shallow waters on the coast
of South East Nigeria at the mouth of the Calabar
River, and there are a number of other known gas
reserves in the locality.The licence area has been
drilled and surveyed since the 1990s and has gas
reserves of approximately 750 billion cubic feet
(approximately 107 million barrels of oil equivalent).
Gasol has commissioned initial pre-feasibility
reports which indicate that the available gas from
OML 114 could support LNG production of over
800,000 tons per annum for 10 years. Gasol is
currently working up a business plan, in
conjunction with its upstream partner Afren Plc,
to support a gas acquisition price proposal.
Whilst all monetisation routes for the gas are
being considered, we are considering most closely
technology that has a existing track record, in order
to minimise the risks in delivery of the project.
• The Group announced the completion of the
strategic review commenced in the previous
year, with a commitment to:
continue with its existing strategy of seeking
to aggregate and monetise stranded gas assets
in the Gulf of Guinea, through the liquefaction
of gas;
develop a gas to power strategy in West Africa
based, in part, on a small scale LNG solution to
provide gas for new electricity generating
capacity and, where possible, as an alternative
fuel supply for existing oil-fired power stations.
• Gasol has entered into an exclusive
agreement to negotiate the terms to acquire
all of the gas in the Nigerian Offshore
Licence area OML 114.
• The Group negotiated a revised agreement
on its gas project in Equatorial Guinea.
• Successfully secured £4 million of financing
in the financial year, which was used to
refinance approximately £2.2 million of
existing debt plus interest and to provide
new working capital.
• Continue negotiations to secure OML 114
gas in Nigeria
• Build on the revised agreement in
Equatorial Guinea
• Continue development of gas to power
business plan
• Raise sufficient funding to continue to
meet our project and corporate expense
needs
• Acquire further gas assets in the Gulf
of Guinea
2010-2011 Key Activities 2011-2012 Key Objectives
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Focus and value
Chief Operating Officer’s Statement
Operating and Financial Review
10 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Whilst the economic environment and the
energy/LNG sector have been challenging
over the last few years and the short-term gas
economics are relatively weak, Gasol believes
that the longer term gas fundamentals are
robust. Gasol expects to show further progress
in the development of its business the
coming year. Equatorial Guinea
At the end of May 2011, Gasol also announced that
it had negotiated a revised agreement with
Sociedad Nacional de Gas, GE (“SONAGAS”),
the national gas company of Equatorial Guinea,
in respect of the associated gas from the Zafiro field
which was being developed by SONAF , a joint
venture between Gasol and SONAGAS.The Zafiro
gas will now be utilised by a new entity in which
Gasol will have a small equity investment, whilst
under the terms of the amended agreement Gasol,
through SONAF , has, inter alia, been appointed as an
agent for the purpose of developing a market in
West and Central Africa for purchasers of liquefied
natural gas produced by the EG LNG project.
This revised agreement complements Gasol’s new
strategy, in particular the Company’s aim to see, and
be involved in, the development of a West African
focussed LNG market, whilst also ensuring greater
likelihood of a successful gas project based on the
Zafiro gas.
Financial Results:
The financial statements reflect the fact that Gasol
remains a development company and whilst it is
investing time and money in accessing gas
monetisation projects, it has no material source of
income. As noted last year, following the change
of management in 2009 much attention has been
paid to managing costs and reducing expenditure,
and the full benefit of this has only now been felt in
the current year.The loss after tax for the financial
year is £2.38 million (2010: loss of £5.08 million),
equating to a loss of 0.22 pence per share
(2010: loss of 0.47 pence), which principally
represents the administrative costs of undertaking
the project development.
Net cash expenditure on operating activities during
the year was £1.73 million (2010: £3.84 million).
Whilst management continues to monitor all costs
closely, we are also now investing in resources to
move our projects forward and these costs will be
reflected in the 2012 financial accounts.
During the year the Group has raised
approximately £1.75 million of new funds through
debt instruments, and a further £1 million shortly
after the financial year had ended. In April 2010,
£1 million was raised through a loan from our
major shareholder African Gas Development
Corporation. In December 2010, the Company
entered into a £3 million convertible loan facility
that was used to repay approximate £2.18 million
of existing debts together with accrued interest,
and the balance was used for new working capital.
This facility was provided by African Gas
Development Corporation Ltd and Banque
Benedict Hentsch et Cie. Since the year end, Gasol
has entered into a new £1 million convertible loan
facility, also with African Gas Development
Corporation.The £10 million equity line of credit
with GEM Global Yield Fund remains in place
but the illiquidity in the trading of the Company’s
shares makes the ability to use this facility
very difficult.
Investments
The Directors reviewed the value of the
investments of the Company at 31 March 2011 and
came to a valuation of £3,000,000. In forming this
valuation, the directors have considered both the
price at which an independent unsolicited bid for
the project rights would be rejected by the Board
and assessed the net present value of the project
future cash flows, which have been risk adjusted to
reflect the probabilities of success at each stage
of the project.This led to an impairment write
down of £285,488 in the Group and £31,948,633 in
the Company during the year.
Management & Staff
After the changes of both Board members and
Management in 2009, staffing in 2010 has been
constant. I would like to thank everyone who has
continued to work hard throughout the year,
turning the Gasol strategy into a reality. As our
projects progress we are recruiting to expand our
management and project development
capabilities.
Outlook and Challenges
Whilst Gasol remains in its development phase it
needs, and continues to seek, sources of funding in
order to progress the development of its projects
and bring them to the position of final investment
decision, and beyond. As the projects achieve
greater certainty, we expect to be able to access
alternatives sources of funds. Gas projects, of the
type that Gasol is developing, are large scale and
capital intensive.Whilst much of the project cost
will be met by bank finance, Gasol will need to find
finance for the remaining funding requirements
and it is likely that some of the risk and reward of
the projects will be shared with other parties.
As Gasol sets about developing its projects in line
with the new strategy, the management believes
that the business model is sound and that the
future prospects of the gas market are positive,
particularly those available in the gas-to-power
sector within West Africa. Much will depend on the
ability of Gasol to successfully raise funding for
project development and execution, but we are
confident that by developing robust projects
within the chosen strategy we will have a good
opportunity of doing so.
Ewen Wigley
Chief Operating Officer
6 September 2011
11 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We have a focused strategy and a strong team
- these will stand us in good stead to face
current challenges and to deliver long term
value to our shareholders.
We are actively developing key relationships
and alliances with companies along the value
chain in order to progress our business
development activities.
Being a project developer, Gasol provides
monetisation solutions to gas assets
owners by developing projects which
provide a route to domestic and export
markets.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
