 Long-term Potential
Chairman’s Statement
06 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
This is my second Chairman’s statement, but the first for which I have been in
the role for a full financial year.Whilst my previous statement covered a year
of change, both in terms of management and development of a new strategy,
the financial year covered by these report and accounts has seen the beginning
of the implementation of this new strategy and the building of the key
foundations necessary to support the business. I am pleased to report that,
although the global economic environment in which we all operate continues
to provide challenges, I believe the Group has made good progress in the
development of its operational activities.
The Economic Environment
The world’s major economies continue to show erratic levels of growth with an
uncertain future, and the financial markets continue to reflect considerable
uncertainty in the light of both growth and the levels of debt.The unbalanced
supply and demand picture for LNG that I wrote about last year continues to
persist.The tragic earthquake in Japan in March of this year, and the consequent
closure of the Fukushima nuclear power station, has increased Japanese demand
for LNG in the short term, but the longer term effect that this will have on the
LNG supply and demand situation remains unclear. Internationally there are still
some major LNG liquefaction projects under development or consideration,
whilst improvements in the recovery of shale gas will undoubtedly mean longer
term the price of gas is likely to reflect the greater supply.
The longer-term need for gas in developed
countries and the potential of West Africa to
supply gas for exports and to develop local gas
projects have opened doors for small companies
such as Gasol. 07 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We believe that Gasol can still develop a significant
gas business in the West African region. Gas
remains one of the most efficient and
environmentally friendly sources of energy
available today, and there are significant reserves
throughout West Africa, and particularly in Nigeria.
Governments are increasing the pressure to cease
flaring surplus gas at the wellhead, whilst gas asset
owners are seeking economic solutions to
monetise their gas. Independent non majors such
as Gasol have a role to fulfil in providing this
solution.We remain of the view that in the longer
term, growth in gas demand will continue
particularly from the developing countries, and that
our focus on the West African region will stand us
in good stead.
The Gas Strategy
Early in the financial year, the Company announced
the result of its strategic review, with the conclusion
that Gasol should continue its existing activity of
looking to monetise stranded gas reserves in the
Gulf of Guinea through smaller scale LNG projects,
but in addition, the Group should seek to add
incremental value to that gas. In particular we
identified the developing gas-to-power sector in
West Africa as having the greatest potential to add
that incremental value, as well as producing
shareholder returns in the shorter term.
Since that announcement the Company has
focussed on the development of LNG projects that
best suit this revised strategy. In May of this year, we
announced that we had entered into an agreement
with exclusivity to negotiate the terms to acquire all
of the gas in the Nigerian Offshore Licence area
OML 114. Our early reports indicate that this gas
field would support a LNG monetisation solution
of an appropriate size for our overall strategy.
At the end of May 2011, we also announced that
we had negotiated a revised agreement with
Sociedad Nacional de Gas, GE (“SONAGAS”), the
national gas company of Equatorial Guinea, in
respect of the associated gas from the Zafiro field.
As part of the revised terms Gasol, through its
SONAF joint venture partnership with SONAGAS,
has been appointed as an agent for the purpose of
developing a market in West and Central Africa for
purchasers of liquefied natural gas produced by the
EG LNG project.
We continued to work closely with our major
shareholder, African Gas Development Corporation
Ltd, to develop a detailed business plan based,
in part, on using LNG as a source of gas to fuel new
electricity generating capacity and, where possible,
as an alternative fuel supply for existing oil-fired
power stations.The transportation and
regasification of LNG on a small scale is already
used elsewhere in the world today, and our
challenge is to apply that existing technology in
the West African environment.
Financial Results and Funding
The financial results for the year reflect the hard
focus on cost cutting that took place following the
change of management in 2009.The loss after tax
for the financial year is £2.38 million (2010: loss of
£5.08 million) equating to a loss of 0.22 pence per
share (2010: loss of 0.47 pence).
Cash expenditure on operating activities during the
year was £1.73 million (2010: £3.84 million).Whilst
cash outgoings continue to be monitored closely
to ensure maximum value, the Company is now
investing to maintain the momentum on our gas
projects.
Funding during the period has been through
convertible debt instruments, primarily with our
major shareholder. Gasol today is still a
development company without any income, and
we remain very grateful for the continued support
of our funders.
Gasol is reasonably confident that the projects we
are working on will ultimately be successful, and
that as the level of certainty increases, other sources
of funding are likely to become available.
Management & Staff
Following on from the changes of 2009, I would like
to thank all of the staff for their continued hard
work during what has been a difficult time.We now
have greater clarity on the projects we are working
on, and we have identified people that we believe
can take both the business and the Company
forward.We hope to be making some formal
announcements on this matter shortly.
Outlook
Gasol is confident that it has defined the right
business strategy and is developing the right
projects for the future.We believe that our revised
projects are more likely to succeed and that the
Company is well placed to go forward. I would like
to thank our partners for their continued hard work
and look forward to their ongoing support as we
continue to implement our projects.
Haresh Kanabar
Chairman
6 September 2011
Nigerian and Equatorial Guinean
governments have been amongst the first
to aim to eliminate unnecessary gas flaring.
Gas flaring is the burning of unwanted gas
or flammable gas. Gas flaring not only wastes
a valuable resource, but is also a major cause
of environmental pollution.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
