 Highlights
01 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 The Group announced the completion of the strategic review
commenced in the previous year, with a commitment to:
 continue with its existing strategy of seeking to aggregate and
monetise stranded gas assets in the Gulf of Guinea, through the
liquefaction of gas;
 develop a gas to power strategy in West Africa based, in part,
on a small scale LNG solution to provide gas for new electricity
generating capacity and, where possible, as an alternative fuel
supply for existing oil-fired power stations.
 After the year end Gasol entered into an exclusive agreement to
negotiate the terms to acquire all of the gas in the Nigerian
Offshore Licence area OML 114.This gas field has proven reserves
which, early reports indicate, would support an LNG monetisation
solution of an appropriate size for our strategy.
 After the year end the Group negotiated a revised agreement
on its gas project in Equatorial Guinea, and as part of the revised
terms Gasol, through its SONAF joint venture partnership with
SONAGAS, has been appointed as an agent for the purpose of
developing a market in West and Central Africa for purchasers
of liquefied natural gas produced by the Equatorial Guinea
LNG project.
 Successfully secured £4 million of financing in the financial year,
which was used to refinance approximately £2.2 million of existing
debt plus interest and to provide new working capital. A further
£1 million loan facility was raised shortly after the financial
year end.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Strategic focus:
Clear goals
Identifying the opportunities
West Africa becoming a critical gas hub
02 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Gasol is focused on developing projects to
aggregate and monetise stranded gas in the
Gulf of Guinea region of West Africa, primarily
via Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG).
Gasol seeks to create added value by using
LNG to develop, with partners, a gas to power
business within the West African region. Why gas?
We believe that the global gas market will continue
to provide value-enhancing opportunities for the
foreseeable future.
Natural gas is widely recognised as one of the most
environmentally friendly and efficient means of
providing power in the world today.The problem
for gas asset owners has traditionally been how to
deliver the gas from the gas field to the consuming
market place.Where possible, pipelines are the
preferred delivery method but they usually require
large gas reserves and significant capital
investment to justify construction at an
international level.Technological developments
and a growing demand from gas has led to the
development of the LNG Market, allowing those
gas reserves further afield from centres of gas
demand to be developed. Most recently the
unfortunate natural disaster in Japan that resulted
in the loss of a nuclear power station could
potentially lead to even greater gas demand in the
future as national reassessment of environmental
risks takes place.
LNG projects have traditionally been focussed on
large scale units producing millions of tons of LNG
per annum. Over the last few years, there has been
a growth in smaller scale use of LNG.Technology
now exists to produce, transport store and regasify
LNG in quantities of hundreds of thousands of tons
per annum and below. As a result it is now possible
to consider the monetization of smaller gas fields in
areas where this has previously been impractical or
uneconomic.
Why Africa?
A combination of the decline of traditional reserves
of natural gas in the US and in the North Sea, and a
growing awareness by African countries of the
value of their gas has led to the relatively
underdeveloped and gas prolific West African fields
becoming increasingly attractive for monetisation.
The desire by large consumer nations to avoid
overdependence on limited numbers of producers
has also led to demand for alternative secure
sources of gas.West African gas can provide a
viable, secure and strategic alternative source of
supply.
The Gulf of Guinea region of Africa, with over 200
trillion cubic feet of reserves, is particularly well
positioned to supply to US and European
consumers and the rapidly-growing Far Eastern
markets. Nigeria alone houses 90% of these
reserves.
In addition, the Gulf of Guinea has a large number
of gas reserves that have not attracted the interest
of larger national and international gas companies
because these reserves have traditionally been
considered too small on a stand-alone basis to
launch a profitable gas project. However, the
development of smaller scale LNG technology is
allowing some of these smaller fields to become
economically viable as a gas monetisation project.
Why Gasol?
There have been structural changes in the gas/LNG
industry as gas asset owners and the national
governments have a greater awareness of the
potential value of their gas assets and seek a
greater involvement in the gas monetisation
process for optimum leverage from their gas
ownership. Moreover an urgent demand in most
West African countries for more electricity
generation capacity to satisfy industrial and
domestic demand has led these countries to focus
on regionally available fuel resources.
As an independent player, Gasol is ideally placed to
develop gas projects through:
(a) its focus on gas monetisation in West Africa
(b) strategic alliances with upstream players
(c) alignment with host governments
(d) development of gas-to-power for use of gas
and added value
Gasol is focused on delivering its first LNG project,
utilising small-scale liquefaction technology,
which is cost competitive with lower project
execution time.
create value by developing LNG projects as a
gas monetisation solution.
In the long term the global gas market will
continue to provide value-enhancing
opportunities. The stranded West African gas
fields provide an attractive opportunity to
03 Gasol plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
There exists a significant opportunity in
West Africa for supplying gas to generate
electricity. The region suffers from a
chronic shortage of power which we
believe is most efficiently and swiftly
addressed by gas fired power stations.
Gasol believes that the opportunities here
will lead to the creation of a second
revenue stream in a shorter timescale.
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
A key goal that emerged from the Group’s strategic review was
to accelerate the creation of further income streams:
