 04 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Q&AS
“T o drive the business forward, we
are focusing on those distinctive
brands that have the potential to
become market leaders. These
brands have a national footprint and
appeal to communities of listeners,
who are passionate about particular
genres of music, and can be reached
across multiple platforms.”
Ralph Bernard
Chief Executive
15 . 2m
listeners – audience figures up from 
15 million last year  Q
How would you describe GCap Media’s year to March 2007?
A
Against a backdrop of difficult market conditions, we’ve continued 
to manage the business prudently and have made significant
changes to strengthen the business as a whole and consolidate 
our position as the UK’s leading radio group. 
We’ve made significant strategic progress to underpin future
audience and revenue growth, such as investment in our core stations
and developing our portfolio of national brands. Improvements 
in programming and content across the Group, and in particular at
the One Network, mean we have now been able to stabilise audience
figures. After a period of planned and careful change, Capital 95.8
remains on track with its first brand marketing campaign in over 
four years beginning in March of this year .
In October of last year, we sold 105.4 Century FM and 100-102
Century FM for £60 million. The disposal has given us greater
financial flexibility to focus on growth areas for the business 
whilst retention of the national and regional sales contract for 
both stations has meant that we are able to maintain our attractive
advertising portfolio. 
We’ve continued to develop our national brand portfolio with the
acquisition of the remaining 75% of Planet Rock for £4.8 million, 
the launch of theJazz, the first ever national jazz radio station, 
and the acquisition, subject to Ofcom’s approval, of the 18 AM
Classic Gold radio stations for a total cost of £4.2 million, 
which took place after the year end in April 2007. 
In addition, we have also been developing our online proposition. 
All of our station websites have now been upgraded with state-of-
the-art streaming capabilities and we’ve made significant progress
towards our goal of delivering an active database of two million
listeners by 2008 with one million people already signed up. 
Q
Have we finally seen the upturn at Capital 95.8?
A
With no clear leader in the London market, Capital 95.8 has the
potential to use its distinctive programming to increase significantly
its share of the lucrative London audience. 
In January 2006 we began work to overhaul the station and give it a
clear identity, which is contemporary, credible, vibrant and relevant
to London. The station now has a completely distinct sound from
both the BBC and our commercial radio competitors, and the next
stage for us is to communicate this to people who have either left 
the station or never listened to it before. We continue to develop the
station’s programming and a full scale brand marketing campaign
began in March. While it was too soon to have an impact in the last
set of RAJAR results, Wave1: 2007, we expect to see positive results
of these developments in the long-term. However, it’s important
that we continue to stay ahead of the game and to ensure that
Capital 95.8 feels contemporary and up to the minute, so the 
station will keep on evolving and changing. 
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 05
Overview
The past year has been a challenging time for our industry.
Nevertheless, despite these tough market conditions we 
have succeeded in delivering against our objectives, and 
have made good progress in shaping our business for the
future. Highlights include:
Portfolio enhanced through
acquisition of Planet Rock, 
Classic Gold and launch 
of theJazz 
Marketing campaign
commenced at Capital 95.8 
Management and
programming strengthened
and websites upgraded 
Board strengthened through
appointments of Richard Eyre 
and Fru Hazlitt
Further cost savings enabling
reinvestment in the business  
Net debt reduced laying
foundations for future growth  06 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
Q
Which of your brands do you see as having potential for 
growth in 2007?
A
To drive the business forward, we are focusing on growing 
our core business, the One Network and Capital 95.8, alongside 
our distinctive brands that have potential to be market-leaders.
These are brands that have a national footprint and appeal 
to communities of listeners, who are passionate about particular
genres of music, and can be reached across multiple platforms
such as analogue, DAB radio, online, mobile phone and TV . These
brands include Classic FM, Xfm, theJazz, Planet Rock, and the
‘classic hits’ network. We believe these can generate greater
returns as they utilise the strong relationships we have with our
listeners. In turn they offer opportunities for cross promotion and
the sharing of talent and expertise from within the Group.
Q
Why the focus online – what are the opportunities here?
A
Online is already a key part of what we do and it is important to 
us for a number of reasons. Firstly, radio and internet are no longer
distinct media platforms as an increasing number of our listeners
are choosing to listen online. We need to meet this demand and
maintain the loyalty of our listeners. Secondly, across the media
industry as a whole there is increasing demand for more sophisticated
marketing solutions which supplement spot advertising. From an
advertising perspective, radio and internet work very well alongside
each other: 67% of users say that they have listened to radio while
they have been logged on while 59% say they have visited sites 
as a result of what they have heard on-air . This is a compelling
proposition for advertisers and this natural partnership between 
the two media means that we can offer the kind of sophisticated
solutions that our customers demand from creative on-air
promotions and opportunities, events, sampling, website 
activities and podcasts. 
Q
In which areas of the business will you be investing for 2007?
A
This year, we are investing £5.6 million into the business with 
a focus on three key areas: net investment of £2.1 million in
Interactive, £0.9 million in the launch and marketing of new 
stations Xfm South Wales and theJazz and £2.6 million in our 
other stations including Capital 95.8.
Q
What is the future for digital radio? 
A
Radio continues to be a popular medium and we believe that 
the growth of digital radio will serve to attract new listeners 
to commercial radio. 
Digital radio is found on a number of different platforms – DAB
radio, online, TV and mobile. DAB in particular gives a number of 
our brands the national footprint needed to create communities of
listeners who are united by a passion for a particular genre of music
and who are happy to be engaged with across multiple platforms. 
In addition, with more national commercial stations than the BBC,
the digital world presents a more level playing field to compete 
with the BBC. Already, with no money yet spent on advertising 
or promotion, Planet Rock has a weekly audience of almost half 
a million listeners. With three million DAB sets now in the market
place and forecasts of 50% household penetration by 2010, we 
see the development of digital radio as integral to our success 
and are already seeing the early benefits of investing in talent at
Planet Rock. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Q&AS
CONTINUED
Focusing on distinctive brands 
with market-leading potential 
and the ability to expand onto 
multiple platforms GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 07
Overview
Q
Can commercial radio really take on the BBC and win?
A
It’s not just about taking on the BBC but ensuring that we compete
with them effectively in the commercially attractive 15-44 age
range. In recent years, they have increasingly tried to move over to
the mainstream commercial heartland, but despite this commercial
radio still has a 60% share of all listening amongst those under the
age of 45. I think this can improve. Historically, innovation such as
the move to digital and separate broadcasting on AM and FM, has
always been introduced by the commercial sector and it is this type
of creativity and approach that will ensure that commercial radio
performs well against the BBC in the future. 
Q
What are your views on the market? Given the challenging
conditions, are you seeing any signs of improvement? 
A
The market remains difficult to predict as the media industry 
is changing and evolving constantly. Nonetheless, we have seen 
an improving trend in advertising revenue performance and GCap
Media was ahead of the market for the last quarter of the financial
year . We are encouraged by this and feel we have the right team 
and strategy, the strong brands, and the solid financial base to 
grow the business in the long-term.
Q
What are management’s priorities in the coming year?
A
We aim to:
Change the perception of Capital 95.8 with marketing 
Strengthen our core business at the One Network
Improve our online offering across the Group
Continue to offer our listeners the music and 
entertainment that they want
Continue to provide innovative solutions to advertisers 
across our multi-platform brands
89%
of 15-24 year olds listening to
an average of 19 hours a week
90%
of adults tuning in each week 
for over 23 hours AUDIENCE PROFILES
INTRODUCTION
Audiences are being given more choice in an
ever-evolving and increasingly competitive media
landscape. As a result, we are developing our
offering to listeners and extending our traditional
analogue services onto the burgeoning digital
platforms including online, local and national 
DAB digital radio, digital TV and mobile. 
In this fragmented market, our strong
brands mean that we are able to form
direct relationships with our listeners and attract
communities of people drawn from commercially
attractive demographics who are passionate
about particular types of music and entertainment. 
By innovating and increasing the opportunities 
for interactivity, we will create new revenue
opportunities for the Group and be in a stronger
position to compete for listeners’ time and loyalty. Creating communities of listeners,
united by a passion for music, 
who want to be reached across 
multiple platforms
Business Review
