 02 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Operations overview
Against the backdrop of a tough market, GCap Media has had 
a robust performance producing underlying revenues and Profit
Before Tax (PBT) of £200.1 million and £14.4 million respectively. 
This performance has been supported by the strengthening of 
our balance sheet through the sale of the Century stations and 
an improvement in cumulative cost savings to £29.5 million.
We have also made good operational progress with stable audience
figures across the Group. We have carried out a complete overhaul
of programming on Capital 95.8 and recently launched a marketing
campaign to attract new and lapsed listeners. We have also
strengthened our portfolio of commercially attractive brands and
stations with the launch of theJazz, the acquisition of the remaining
stake in the Sony award-winning Planet Rock and the acquisition of
the Classic Gold Network from Classic Gold Digital. Subject to Ofcom
approval of this deal, Classic Gold will be merged with Capital Gold 
to create a single ‘classic hits’ network. 
Strategic focus
In an ever-changing and increasingly competitive media landscape,
GCap Media continues to evolve so that we can give our listeners
more of what they want and provide innovative solutions to
advertisers. We are transforming our stations from traditional
analogue services into brands that operate across multiple
platforms including online, local and national DAB digital radio,
digital TV and mobile.
GCap Media owns some of the strongest brands in commercial radio,
including Classic FM, Capital 95.8 and Xfm. The strength of these
brands means that we are able to form direct relationships with our
listeners and by innovating and increasing these opportunities for
interactivity, we will create new revenue opportunities for the Group
and be in a better position to compete for listeners’ time and loyalty.
As we continue to develop the business, we will focus on building our
core assets and evolving the brands that we believe have the greatest
revenue potential across multiple platforms. These are brands that
“In an ever-changing and increasingly competitive
media landscape, GCap Media continues to
evolve so that we can give our listeners more of
what they want and provide innovative solutions
to advertisers. We are transforming our stations
from traditional analogue services into brands
that operate across multiple platforms including
online, local and national DAB digital radio,
digital TV and mobile.”
Peter Cawdron 
Chairman GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 03
Overview
have both a national footprint and appeal to communities of 
listeners who are passionate about particular genres of music.
Having assessed all of our brands, we have taken the decision to
close Capital Disney and cease investment in digital stations, Core
and Life. We are reviewing our options in respect of the national
digital radio capacity that these stations occupy.
We have continued to manage the business prudently and will be
making further cost savings totalling £5.5 million in the current 
year . Our strengthened financial position will enable us to invest 
a further £5.6 million in our business. This investment will focus 
on Capital 95.8 and the One Network, the launch and marketing 
of new stations Xfm South Wales and theJazz and the extension 
of our online offering, enabling us to exploit the growth in online
advertising revenues whilst extending relationships with our listeners.
Board changes
We have made some changes to the Board and I’m delighted 
to welcome Fru Hazlitt to the new position of Managing Director, 
GCap Media London. She will take responsibility for Capital 95.8 
and Choice FM, in addition to GCap Media’s national commercial
sales and online operations.The Board has also appointed Richard
Eyre as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate. 
These appointments took effect from 1 May of this year and their wide
experience covering advertising, radio, television, press and digital
media will be a valuable addition to the Board. Richard will take over
as Non-executive Chairman in November of this year, by which time 
I will have overseen the Group through the Merger, which was my
original remit. I look forward to continuing my advisory role on the
Board of the Company as Deputy Chairman. 
I would also like to thank Dame Patricia Hodgson who stood down
from the Board of Directors in August. Patricia was a great asset,
advising on a number of important strategic decisions and her
expertise and experience will be missed.
Dividend
We said in October last year, when we announced the Century
disposals, that the Board would be considering the level of dividend
cover to allow for future investment in the business. The Board 
is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 1.5p which, 
taken with the interim dividend of 3.1p, proposes a total dividend 
for the year of 4.6p. The Board believes this total dividend for the 
year represents a prudent level given the strategic needs of the
business and the Board aims to grow the dividend as cash cover 
and earnings improve.
Looking ahead
We’ve seen an improving trend in advertising revenue performance
and were ahead of the market for the last quarter of the financial
year . While the outlook still remains difficult, we are confident 
we have put in place the right building blocks to enable us to take
GCap Media forward.
As we start the current financial year, we have an experienced Board
and senior management team in place and we are giving our strong
brands the management focus and necessary investment that they
need to build audiences and grow revenue for the future. Having
stabilised the business, we intend to focus on strengthening our
radio brands and we will develop the excellent opportunities that 
we see in the multi-platform world – particularly online.
Finally, I would like to thank our dedicated and talented staff who
continue to innovate and drive the Group forward, thereby enabling 
us to deliver our strategy and long-term growth.
Peter Cawdron
Chairman
30 May 2007
We are confident we have the
right building blocks in place
to take GCap Media forward
