 8 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Our strategic goals
• 	 	 Th e 	 c o n s o l i d a t i o n 	 o f 	 th e	
coloured gemstone industry, 
with a view to become the 
ultimate industry authority.
• 	 	 Th e 	 p r o v i s i o n 	 o f 	 a 	 c o n s i s t e n t	
supply of coloured gemstones 
to the world markets.
• 	 	 T o 	 l e ad 	 th e 	 wa y 	 i n 	 c o l o u r e d	
gemstone exploration and 
operational efficiency  
and mining ethics.
IAN HAREBOTTLE
chi EF Ex Ecutiv E OFFic ER
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
2013 marked another year of growth for Gemfields across each of our 
mining and marketing divisions. At our 75% owned Kagem emerald mine in 
Zambia, production of emeralds and beryl rose by 42% to 30 million carats, 
supported by higher grades, a continued decrease in unit costs and a third 
consecutive year of zero reportable accidents, equivalent to three million 
injury‑free shifts. These reduced operating costs are a tremendous 
achievement and predominantly the result of improved mining efficiencies 
employed by Gemfields since it acquired the Kagem mine in 2007.
These operational successes were delivered concurrent to the ongoing 
high‑wall push programme at Kagem’s principal Chama pit, which has 
opened up new areas of ore to be mined for the next 18 months before 
pushback four is required; this will see the stripping ratio decrease 
accordingly for the short term.
Our continued evaluation of the expansion opportunities on our extensive 
licence area saw good progress, especially at our trial underground mining 
operation at Kagem, and the neighbouring Fibolele pit. A trial mining 
operation has been agreed to commence in 2014 at the Fibolele pit which 
will target the near surface mineralisation, allowing for a low cost, albeit, 
small‑scale operation. At the underground trial mining project, production 
continues to provide Gemfields with a high degree of confidence that a 
larger scale underground mining project could be safely and effectively 
implemented within the Zambian emerald belt, thereby increasing the 
projected life of mine at Kagem by at least 20 years. Further analysis 
remains on track in order to allow the Board to finalise development 
of a larger scale operation in 2014. 9 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Elsewhere in Zambia, the period saw US$2.5 million invested into our 
50% owned Kariba amethyst mine, which includes US$1.25 million from 
GRZ, through ZCCM‑IH. This is the largest single cash injection that this 
operation has received to date and has allowed for the purchase of large scale 
mining equipment which will considerably increase production in 2014.
One of the main objectives from last year was to commence ruby production 
at Montepuez in Mozambique. I am pleased to report that early production 
via a bulk sampling operation commenced in August 2012, with the washing 
of this material beginning in earnest in December 2012. Adjustments to the 
processing plant, arising from the optimisation of the ore washing and 
cleaning process during trial commissioning, resulted in significantly higher 
production in the second half and produced a total of 1.8 million carats as at 
30 June 2013. This material is now being sorted and graded in line with the 
established parameters of our newly established, and proprietary, rough ruby 
grading system – a world first for this gem. We will continue to refine our 
operations at Montepuez over the coming months, but work to date has 
created an excellent platform in order for us to offer rubies to our customers 
for the first time in H1 2014.
In addition to our operational achievements, I am pleased to report the progress 
from our mergers and acquisitions team, which saw the Company enter into an 
agreement to acquire up to 330 square kilometres adjacent to our 340 square 
kilometres Montepuez licence. We remain committed to adding a significant 
sapphire deposit to our portfolio, and with the extensive efforts that we have 
directed toward the task, we remain hopeful that we are able to generate 
traction in this regard in the short to medium term.
Arguably one of the most important achievements made during the year 
was the acquisition of Fabergé, further supported by the signing of actress 
Mila Kunis as Gemfields’ global brand ambassador. These two high profile 
additions demonstrate how far the Company has come in a very short space 
of time. The perceived benefits that these two partners have had on the 
continued increase in demand, sales and achievable rough prices, are clear 
indications of the value they bring, and will continue to bring, to the Group.
Finally, I would like to thank each and every member of both our original 
Gemfields team and the newly acquired Fabergé team, your dedication is 
greatly appreciated and has not gone unnoticed. The primary reason for our 
successes to date stems from the way in which each of you has approached 
the tasks at hand, in a manner that extends far beyond doing a good job and 
is much closer to that of a lifelong passion – you are the true gems within 
our Company. It is a pleasure to share these successes with you and I look 
forward to all that the future holds for Gemfields and our shareholders.
Ian Harebottle
c hief Executive Officer
2 October 2013
Above Aerial view of Zambian landscape
