 4 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Our mission
T o be recognised as the 
world’s number one coloured 
gemstone company and to 
maintain our success in 
mining, distribution 
and marketing.
GRAHAM MASCALL
NON‑Ex Ecutiv E c h AiRMAN
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to update you on one of the busiest years in Gemfields’ history, 
a year underpinned by strong operational performance at our 75% owned 
Kagem emerald mine in Zambia, despite setbacks in our anticipated auction 
schedule. While these disruptions have clearly had an adverse effect on the 
Group’s financial performance for the year, we are encouraged by the 
progress made in this area over the past few months.
Gemfields saw significant increases in emerald and beryl production 
at Kagem, which enjoyed higher grades and a decrease in gemstone and 
rock handling unit costs. This accomplishment encapsulates Gemfields’ 
commitment to improving performance at every conceivable opportunity, 
and across all of our operations.
The Group has extended this approach to the Montepuez ruby deposit 
in Mozambique. The preliminary results of the bulk sampling activities 
are encouraging with the extraction of 1.8 million carats during the year. 
Our first ruby auction is expected to take place before 30 June 2014, and will 
provide an increased level of confidence in, and understanding of, the ruby 
market and the value of our production profile. Montepuez is expected 
to add significant additional revenue to the Group. Our customers, both 
existing and new, stand to benefit from the reliable and regular supply of 
rubies that are expected to flow from Montepuez as the operation scales up.
In tandem with the growth in production this year, Gemfields’ reputation 
as the leading producer, marketer and distributor of high quality rough gems 
has developed apace, with ever‑increasing consumer appetite for our ethically 
sourced and consistently supplied coloured gemstones. The record (average) 
auction price of US$54 per carat achieved at our July 2013 emerald auction 
in Zambia (just three weeks after the close of this reporting period) clearly 
illustrates the increased demand and other benefits we continue to derive 
from our global marketing campaigns. 5 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The three auctions originally planned for the financial year to 30 June 2013 
would undoubtedly have seen the Company report another year of solid 
financial performance. Unfortunately however, our intended auction 
schedule was impeded by the widely reported discussions between Gemfields 
and GRZ regarding their proposed ban on the auctioning of emeralds outside 
of Zambia. As a result, we managed only two auctions during the year rather 
than three, with a corresponding adverse effect on revenues. While the 
revenues from the third auction therefore did not arise in the year ending 
30 June 2013, they will do so in the year to 30 June 2014. 
We believe that it is important for Zambia to be included as one of the 
locations on an international auction circuit. To attract and sustain the 
highest attainable prices for Zambia’s gemstones, we must continue to 
do whatever it takes to support their competitiveness with respect to other 
supplying countries and competing luxury goods, ensuring direct, continued 
and expanded exposure to international markets. We remain hopeful that 
such an approach will be agreed upon in the near future.
Gemfields continues to expand both organically and via acquisitions. Trial 
mining is due to commence at Kagem’s Fibolele pit, the proposed underground 
mining expansion at Kagem’s Chama pit is being scrutinised and operations 
at the Montepuez ruby deposit continue to ramp up. We have also secured 
additional licences adjacent to Montepuez in a prolific and emerging gemstone 
district, and achieved encouraging progress toward our goal of adding a 
sizeable sapphire deposit to our asset base. Significantly, we also completed 
our acquisition of the world famous Fabergé luxury brand and business. 
The acquisition of Fabergé extended our reach across the coloured gemstone 
sector, augmenting our ‘Mine and Market’ strategy, and which is expected 
to add considerable direct and indirect value in the coming years. We have 
already observed increased confidence among our emerald customers 
(as evidenced by the most recent auction), who see our commitment to driving 
industry and consumer demand via the acquisition of Fabergé as an important 
positioning tool for coloured gemstones. Gemfields is increasingly cultivating 
an enviable rapport with leading stakeholders within the burgeoning luxury 
and coloured gemstones industry. 
Our pursuit of dynamic and targeted marketing to position Gemfields 
as an internationally renowned coloured gemstone brand culminated in the 
appointment of Mila Kunis as our brand ambassador in February of this year. 
We have grown into a unique gemstone producer, marketer and distributor, 
and Mila has assisted us greatly in telling our story to the world.
I would like to thank the management team, staff and business partners 
across all of our operations for their tireless efforts and enthusiasm in steadily 
pursuing Gemfields’ considerable ambitions, and I look to the future with 
a distinct sense of excitement.
Graham Mascall
Non‑Executive c hairman
2 October 2013
Above Aerial of c hama Pit, Kagem Mining Ltd
