 Gemfields plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 10
Strategic Report / Chairman’s Statement
Gemfields continues to go 
from strength to strength with 
the addition of a significant 
new revenue stream from our 
ruby operation in Mozambique 
to the solid foundation of our 
Kagem emerald operations 
in Zambia.
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am delighted to update you on a truly 
tremendous year for Gemfields. Your 
Company generated record revenues 
of US$160.1 million and EBITDA 
of US$59.3 million. During the year, 
Gemfields has continued to deliver on its 
strategy of shaping and consolidating the 
coloured gemstone industry, demonstrated 
convincingly by the addition of a 
significant new revenue stream from our 
ruby operations in Mozambique.
While Gemfields today enjoys an 
unrivalled presence in the international 
coloured gemstone industry, the 
opportunity for sustained growth is 
significant. We have built a successful 
emerald business with our world class 
Kagem mine in Zambia (which has 
provided an excellent platform to further 
our vision for the coloured gemstone 
sector globally) and the addition of rubies 
from Mozambique serves to amplify 
our position as the leading supplier of 
responsibly sourced coloured gemstones.
In June 2014, we announced the results 
of our first auction of rough rubies and 
corundum extracted from our 75% owned 
Montepuez deposit in Mozambique. I 
would like to commend our team, and that 
of our 25% partner Mwiriti, for having 
developed Montepuez from a greenfield 
project to an operational and revenue 
generating asset in a little over two years. Gemfields plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11
Strategic Report / Chairman’s Statement
Gemfields Mozambican
ruby rough
The inaugural auction, which raised 
US$33.5 million, increased our confidence 
in, and understanding of, the ruby 
market and the value of our current 
ruby production profile. The auction 
opened the door to a new audience 
of coloured gemstone purchasers and 
confirmed the effectiveness of our ‘first-
of-its-kind’ comprehensive grading and 
sorting framework which was initially 
established for emeralds and suitably 
adapted for rubies. The successful use of 
this framework, together with feedback 
received from auction participants, marked 
a meaningful endorsement of our ruby 
strategy and we are hopeful that the 
ruby market will follow the trajectory we 
observed when our grading and auction 
methodologies were first deployed in the 
emerald market.
While much work remains to be done in 
building a full scale mining operation, 
Montepuez is a noteworthy achievement 
and we look forward to our second 
auction of rough ruby and corundum 
which is scheduled to take place before 
31 December 2014.
Throughout the past year, demand for 
our responsibly sourced rough emeralds 
continued to grow, in tandem with the 
upward trend in achieved per carat prices. 
In February 2014, our higher quality 
gemstones attained an average price of 
US$59.31 per carat, a 10% increase over 
the previous higher quality auction. 
In November 2013, our lower quality 
gemstones sold for an average price of 
US$3.32 per carat which was a 27% 
increase on the previous highest price per 
carat achieved at a lower quality auction. 
We generated US$110 million from 
emerald and beryl sales during the year, 
derived from auctions of directly-mined 
as well as traded material, and including 
direct sales of our lowest grades of beryl.
During the year, our Kagem operation 
achieved a historic milestone and paid 
its first ever dividend. Total dividends 
amounting to US$16 million were paid 
during the year, of which US$4 million 
was paid to the Government of the 
Republic of Zambia as a 25% shareholder 
in Kagem. We are delighted to share the 
success of this operation with our host 
country and business partner.
The Company continues to evaluate 
a number of gemstone acquisition 
opportunities to complement our stated 
red, blue and green ‘traffic light’ of 
coloured gemstones strategy, and we were 
pleased to announce in September 2014 
our move into Sri Lankan sapphires. This 
strategy runs in parallel with the organic 
growth programme, both in terms of the 
exploration and underground mining 
potential at Kagem, and the scaling up of 
activities at Montepuez.
Last but by no means least, the 
incorporation of Fabergé within the 
Gemfields family to complete our ‘mine 
and market’ strategy has given us a more 
meaningful footprint within the high-
end luxury goods market. Following last 
year’s internal review, we have focused 
on restructuring Fabergé’s operations 
and implementing an integrated, global 
strategic plan. I am pleased to report 
that further progress has been made inter 
alia with key appointments, product 
development and marketing, and that 
Gemfields is already reaping direct and 
indirect benefits, as is evidenced by the 
increased demand and sales prices achieved 
for our emeralds and rubies and improved 
sales margins within Fabergé itself.
On behalf of the Board, I would once 
again like to sincerely thank all of our 
employees, host countries, project partners 
and advocates across our operations for 
their support, commitment and hard 
work. The 2014 financial year has been 
remarkably exciting and successful. I look 
forward to reporting on the future progress 
and prosperity of your Company.
Strategic Report
Our 2014 Strategic Report, set out on 
pages 06 through 39, was reviewed and 
approved by the Board of Directors on 
19 September 2014.
Graham Mascall
Chairman
19 September 2014
