 Gemfields plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 14
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
2014 has been a landmark 
year for Gemfields as we 
continue to deliver on our goal 
to be the global coloured 
gemstone champion and a 
leading performer within the 
resource sector.
I am pleased to report on a stellar year in 
which Gemfields has delivered impressively 
on its goals at both the mining and 
marketing ends of the business.
One of the most pleasing and significant 
achievements of the year has been our 
rapidly developing ruby business in 
Mozambique. Within two years of 
completing the acquisition of these licences 
we have developed the deposit into a large 
bulk sampling operation which produced 
6.5 million carats of ruby and corundum 
in 2014. This takes the total ruby and 
corundum extracted at Montepuez since 
the commencement of bulk sampling to 
8.4 million carats.
Montepuez is believed to be the most 
significant recently discovered ruby 
deposit in the world. Given the size of 
the licence area, Gemfields has continued 
with its strategy of focusing on building 
our understanding of the various high 
priority areas across the deposit. Towards 
the end of the third quarter of the 2014 
financial year our focus shifted to the new 
Mugloto prospect. The increase in quality 
and quantity of high value gemstones from 
this prospect justified a short-term shift 
in focus and some restructuring of the 
logistical processes involved. As a result, 
Montepuez saw fewer carats produced in 
the second half of the financial year, but 
this reduction was more than offset by the 
value of the higher quality gems recovered. 
The current bulk sampling programme 
allows Gemfields to analyse the cost, 
volume and value characteristics of the 
various ore bodies in the licence area. Gemfields plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Following an 18-month sorting and 
grading programme, Gemfields offered 
rubies for the first time via its proven 
auction platform. The successful auction, 
held in Singapore, comprised high and low 
quality ruby and corundum and generated 
total sales of US$33.5 million. A total 
of 1.82 million carats were sold yielding 
an overall average value of US$18.43 per 
carat. This was a landmark achievement 
signifying the moment Gemfields became 
a producer and purveyor of precious 
coloured gemstones.
At our Kagem emerald mine in Zambia, 
production of emeralds and beryl dropped 
from 30.0 million carats in 2013 to 20.2 
million carats this year. The reduction 
was primarily the result of high rainfall 
and the grade volatility characteristic of 
gemstone deposits. Kagem has seen its 
annual grade vary between 205 to 478 
carats per tonne of ore during the last four 
financial years. Overall, operations at the 
mine remain in line with expectations, and 
Kagem is in a strong position to benefit 
from an anticipated improvement in the 
grade in the coming year. Our objective, 
subject of course to the grade, remains to 
produce approximately 25 million carats 
annually. Kagem’s potential for organic 
growth remains another opportunity to 
generate enhanced project returns. Current 
operating parameters and cost versus 
revenue considerations favour, for the short 
to medium term, an emphasis on opencast 
operations over underground mining in 
our main Chama pit. From an exploration 
perspective, we continue to evaluate the 
nearby Fibolele and Libwente occurrences 
on the Kagem licence. Libwente having 
yielded encouraging early results, has been 
the subject of accelerated analysis and will 
see a detailed bulk sampling programme 
carried out in the coming year.
Our progress to date is clearly evidenced 
by both the success of our auctions and 
the synergistic marketing campaigns 
delivered by both Fabergé and Gemfields. 
While much is still to be done, Fabergé 
has undergone a successful transition post 
acquisition, similar to Gemfields’ early 
developmental processes at both Kagem 
and Montepuez, whereby our initial 
efforts are focused on containing costs, 
increasing productivity, understanding 
our operating environment and acquiring 
and supporting the right people within the 
team to assist in delivering on our strategy 
of establishing Fabergé as the ‘go-to’ 
jeweller for discerning high-end consumers 
and a champion of colour.
Robert Benvenuto was appointed as 
President and Chief Operating Officer 
of Fabergé in October 2013 to provide 
leadership and strengthen the management 
team by providing direction and a 
focus on strategy throughout Fabergé. 
Implementation of Fabergé’s integrated 
strategic plan is well underway with 
the aim of realising Fabergé’s largely 
unexploited global growth potential.
Robert previously spent 13 years at Harry 
Winston where he served as Chief Finance 
Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Co-
Chief Executive Officer. This experience 
meant that, despite internal overhauls 
and restructuring, Fabergé’s net operating 
cost to the Gemfields Group was within 
budget, supported by a pleasing increase 
in sales margins. New products were well 
received by consumers across key markets, 
a fundamental litmus test for the creation 
of a solid platform for future growth.
Our strategy remains that of becoming 
the global ‘Coloured Gemstone 
Champion’, focused on emeralds, rubies, 
sapphires and other selected gemstones. 
We continue to evaluate a number 
of potential acquisitions, in keeping 
with our track record of identifying, 
acquiring and investing in undeveloped 
or underdeveloped deposits. We are very 
pleased with our recently announced Sri 
Lankan joint venture and hope in the 
medium term to add Sri Lankan sapphires 
to our gemstone auctions.
I am increasingly confident that we 
will achieve our global ambitions in 
the short to medium term. This belief 
is underpinned by the impressive track 
record our team members have established 
over the past five years and the expanding 
portfolio of world class assets. I look 
forward to continuing our current 
growth trajectory and being able to share 
this success with our team members, 
shareholders and stakeholders alike in the 
years ahead.
Ian Harebottle
Chief Executive Officer
19 September 2014
