 14
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
Welcome to Genel Energy plc, an  
Anglo-T urkish company positioned 
to become an emerging force in 
exploration and production. 
Genel Energy brings together an 
unrivalled depth of knowledge and 
experience in the Kurdistan Region  
of Iraq and a world-class set of  
assets, natural resources skills  
and relationships. 
The strength of our Board, executive 
team, employees and capital base will 
allow us to maximise the opportunities 
this presents for our shareholders.
A joint statement from 
the Chief Executive 
Officer & President 15
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
“We plan to further develop our assets in the Kurdistan Region and acquire additional 
opportunities in the Middle East and Africa.”
Tony Hayward, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Mehmet Sepil, President 16
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
A joint statement 
from the Chief 
Executive Officer  
& President
Genel Energy is the largest independent 
UK-listed E&P company by proved and 
probable (2P) reserves, with an estimated 
total working interest reserves and unrisked 
resource base of some 1.6 billion barrels of 
oil equivalent (bboe), including 2P reserves 
of 412 million barrels of oil (mmbbls). 
A decade in the region
We have deep roots in Kurdistan. Our 
Turkish management made Genel Energy 
the ﬁrst company to execute a PSC with 
the Interim Joint Regional Administration 
of Northern Iraq in 2002, when we 
acquired our interest in the Taq Taq ﬁeld, 
and we have been working in Kurdistan 
ever since. Over the last decade, Genel 
Energy has been a core contributor to  
the development of the Kurdistan energy 
industry, which did not exist prior to our 
involvement. Our management team has a 
deep understanding of the Kurdistan region 
and unrivalled regional relationships as 
well as extensive oil and gas experience 
and industry knowledge.
We have contributed to the region through  
a number of initiatives, including medical 
and educational programmes, and we are 
committed to building on our history of 
operating responsibly in Kurdistan. Details  
of our commitment to a sustainable way 
of working and our activities supporting 
these commitments are outlined in the 
Corporate Responsibility section of this 
report on pages 38-41.
Building an operating base in Ankara, Turkey 
over the last decade, Genel Energy has 
evolved to become an ambassador for 
Turkish business.  
We have directly contributed to the 
economic development and wellbeing  
of the Kurdistan Region, to the mutual 
beneﬁt of Turkey, Kurdistan and our 
Company. We are also the ﬁrst Turkish 
business to list on the Main Market of  
the London Stock Exchange, a proud 
moment for all involved.
The creation of Genel Energy plc
Vallares PLC was listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in June 2011 with the purpose of 
acquiring an emerging market E&P company 
with a portfolio of producing, development 
and exploration assets, that required  
both capital and capability to take the 
business to the next stage. The Initial Public  
Offering raised over $2.0 billion (£1.3 billion).  
Vallares and Genel Energy International 
came together in November 2011 to form  
Genel Energy plc. 
Since the June IPO, we have achieved  
a number of key operational milestones:
 Assembled an asset portfolio of  
world-class ﬁelds and prospects, 
comprising an estimated net resource 
base of some 1.6 billion barrels of  
oil equivalent;
 Established a top-class, highly experienced 
independent board, heading a small 
international management team based in 
London. This complements an operating 
headquarters in Ankara with 80 technical 
specialist and administration staff, and 
some 450 employees of TTOPCO on the 
ground in Kurdistan;
 Recorded a signiﬁcant reserve  
upgrade of 78% to 509 mmbbls  
gross in the proven and probable 
reserves of our Tawke ﬁeld and an 
associated commitment to increase 
production capacity to 100,000  
bopd in 2012; 
 Planned to increase production from  
the T aq T aq ﬁeld to 200,000 bopd by 2014, 
enabled by the planned construction of 
the new Kurdistan Iraq Crude Export 
(KICE) pipeline from the ﬁeld to the main 
Kirkuk-Ceyhan export line;
 Announced in January 2012 our 
intention to increase our interest in  
the Chia Surkh exploration licence from 
20% to 80% and become the licence 
operator (subject to approval by the 
Kurdish Regional Government which 
remains pending); 
 Committed to a major exploration 
programme of seven high-impact wells 
during 2012 and early 2013, the largest 
and most comprehensive programme  
in the Kurdistan Region; and
 Begun the process to seek a premium 
listing on the main market in London 
and we are engaged in a constructive 
dialogue with the UK Listing Authority. 
Our objective remains to achieve a 
premium listing in 2012.
Our strategy
We have a clear strategy that we are  
focused on delivering in order to achieve 
long-term value for our shareholders:
 Maintain the highest level of  
corporate governance;
 Continue to fund our existing Kurdistan 
Region assets’ development and 
exploration from operating cashﬂows;
 Create value with the drill bit; and
 Build a major regional E&P company over 
the next 3 to 5 years through development 
of our assets in the Kurdistan Region, 
acquisition in the Middle East and  
Africa, and participation in future  
licencing rounds.
Further details of our strategy are  
set out on page 22.
Realising the potential from  
our existing producing assets
We have interests in the two largest 
producing ﬁelds in Kurdistan, Taq Taq 
(Genel Energy 44%) and Tawke (Genel 
Energy 25%), with access to local and 
international markets. In these ﬁelds,  
the combined gross proven, probable  
and possible (3P) reserves are 1.9bn  
boe (677 mmbbls net to Genel Energy).  
Over the last few years there has been 
strong reserve growth in both ﬁelds as 
they underwent simultaneous appraisal 
and development.
The 2012 appraisal drilling programme  
has the potential to further grow reserves 
at both ﬁelds as we target areas where  
we have few or no well penetrations. 
Production on Taq Taq commenced in 2008 
and has grown to an average daily 
production of over 66,000 bopd gross in 
2011. Over the next 24 months, we intend to 
continue the appraisal and development 
programme at Taq Taq in order to increase  17
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
Unrisked Net Reserves  
and Resources
1.6bn boe
Cash
$1.9bn
production to some 200,000 bopd by 2014. 
This growth is subject to the development 
of supporting infrastructure and the 
construction of the Kurdistan Iraq Crude 
Export (KICE) pipeline. Until this pipeline  
is complete, production from Taq Taq is 
limited by trucking capacity to 90,000 – 
100,000 bopd which is less than the current 
production capacity of 120,000 bopd.
The KICE pipeline is proposed to run from 
the ﬁeld to the main Kirkuk-Ceyhan export 
line. When completed, it is expected that it 
will allow us to increase T aq T aq production 
to circa 200,000 bopd and to cut transport 
costs from circa $3 to $1 per barrel. We are in 
advanced discussions with the Kurdish 
Regional Government in relation to the 
speciﬁc details of the project (including 
timing, ﬁnancing and cost recovery) and 
expect to conclude these discussions shortly. 
At Tawke, average daily production 
exceeded 59,000 bopd gross in December 
2011. We expect to increase production 
capacity from 75,000 to 100,000 bopd 
this year and have studies underway to 
T otal Working Interest Reserves and Unrisked  
Resources of 1.6bn boe
PROSPECTIVE RESOURCES  
729 MMBOE
POSSIBLE RESERVES  
UPSIDE 266 MMBOE
CONTINGENT RESOURCES  
175 MMBOE
2P RESERVES
412 mmbbls
Producing Assets
Total 3P: 678 mmbbls
 Taq Taq 2P
 Tawke 2P
 Taq Taq Possible
 Tawke Possible
Development Assets
 Miran
 Dohuk
Exploration Assets
 Miran
 Peshkabir
 Taq Taq Deep
 Tawke Deep
 Ber Bahr
 Chia Surkh
Our Resource Base today
Genel Energy’s estimated net resource base is 1.6 bn boe. Proven and probable net reserves in  
our two producing fields (T aq T aq and T awke) are 412 mmbbls with further possible net reserves  
of 266 mmbbls, contingent net resources are 175 mmboe and unrisked prospective net resources  
are 729 mmboe.
support production volumes of 150,000  
to 200,000 bopd by 2014.
Genel Energy’s revenue from its production 
in the Kurdistan Region is earned from a 
mixture of domestic and export sales. There 
is a deep and proven domestic market for  
oil within the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, with 
purchasers collecting directly from the ﬁeld 
by truck. There is also an established export 
route via the main Iraq oil export pipeline to 
the Ceyhan port terminal in Turkey although 
exports are currently limited by continuing 
issues surrounding export payments.
Since resuming local sales in the third 
quarter of 2011, circa 50% of gross Taq 
Taq production has been sold into the 
domestic market to local reﬁneries.  
At Tawke, local sales were ramped up  
in October 2011 and since the fourth 
quarter of 2011 circa 50% of gross  
Tawke production has been sold locally. 
Operating cash ﬂows generated from  
our current sales are sufﬁcient for Genel 
Energy to fund our existing Kurdistan 
development and exploration programme. 18
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
A joint statement 
from the Chief 
Executive Officer  
& President 
continued
Developing Genel Energy’s low-risk, 
high impact exploration portfolio
Our existing Kurdistan exploration portfolio 
across our six PSC licences offers a good 
distribution of risk by running through 
diverse geographies with different 
hydrocarbon systems, from Peshkabir in  
the north to Chia Surkh in the south. During 
2012 and early 2013, we plan to carry out the 
largest and most widespread exploration 
programme being conducted by any  
one company in the Kurdistan Region. 
We plan to drill seven high impact 
exploration wells, targeting some  
700 mmboe of unrisked mean resources, 
net to Genel Energy, in a hydrocarbon 
province where the exploration success 
rate is historically 70%. 
Three of the seven exploration wells  
have already spudded. Ber Bahr-1, in  
the Ber Bahr licence area, is targeting 
unrisked resources estimated at circa 500 
mmboe, with results expected at the end 
of the second quarter. The Peshkabir-1  
well is targeting approximately circa  
300 mmboe of unrisked resources in a 
large anticline adjacent to the Tawke ﬁeld. 
Moveable oil has already been detected 
and the well is expected to complete in  
the third quarter of 2012. Miran East-1 is 
targeting the eastern structure of the 
Miran ﬁeld which is contiguous with  
the hydrocarbon bearing Miran West 
structure. Results are expected in  
the second half of 2012.
Outlook and opportunities
T o maximise the value of our business, Genel 
Energy will focus on the following priorities:
 Increasing our production and reserves 
in our existing Kurdistan business 
through the appraisal and development 
of our existing producing ﬁelds and 
through exploration as we embark on 
the most active exploration programme 
in the Kurdistan Region.
The oil and gas sector has been key to  
the Kurdistan Region’s economic growth. 
The US Geological Society has estimated 
that the Kurdistan region has some  
40 billion boe and some 60T cf of gas.  
The oil industry has enjoyed signiﬁcant 
success with cumulative gross discoveries 
of more than 5 bn bbls, with production 
growing from 2,000 bbls/d in 2006  
to some 250,000 bopd currently. The  
region is developing rapidly, with over  
40 oil companies awarded PSCs,  
including ExxonMobil. 
The revenue on our production in the 
Kurdistan Region is obtained from a 
mixture of domestic and export sales.
Domestic market
There is a deep and proven domestic 
market for oil within the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq, with purchasers collecting directly 
from the ﬁeld by truck. Pricing per barrel 
is structured around a tender process 
conducted by the KRG and payment is 
made directly to the producers one month 
in advance. Sales are made to both 
government reﬁneries and private 
companies. T otal capacity in the domestic 
market is estimated at around 160,000 bopd 
and is expected to rise to approximately 
250,000 bopd over the next few years.  
T aq T aq and T awke currently account for 
over 75% of crude oil sales by independent 
producers and Genel Energy enjoys strong 
longstanding relationships with local buyers.
Export market
There is an established export route for oil 
produced in the Kurdistan Region via the 
main Iraq oil export pipeline to the Ceyhan 
port terminal in T urkey . The pipeline operates 
at approximately 65% of its 1.6 mmboed total 
capacity . Currently, any oil exported from T aq 
T aq is trucked to the Khurmala delivery point 
to enter the pipeline. Our T awke ﬁeld already 
has a tie-in to the pipeline.
The State Oil Marketing Organisation 
(SOMO) in Iraq is responsible for selling  
the export crude, with payments made  
to the Iraqi central Government. The 
Kurdistan Region’s share is then paid by 
the Iraqi Central Government to the KRG, 
which in turn pays the oil contractors, 
including Genel Energy. Exports are limited 
by continuing issues surrounding both  
export payments and the evolving  
political landscape.
We aim to increase the share that export 
sales make up of our revenue mix in order 
to realise international oil prices, however 
this will be subject to increasing the export 
capacity from T aq T aq with the 
construction of the KICE pipeline, and the 
resolution of issues surrounding oil 
revenue sharing between the Central 
Government of Iraq and the KRG.
40
bn boe
Estimate in Kurdistan Region
The Kurdistan Region’s Oil Market 19
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
 Continuing to build our capability in 
Ankara, Turkey to maximise the returns 
of our current assets and to have  
a strong team capable of executing  
new opportunities.
 Aiming to run our existing Kurdistan 
operations on a cash-ﬂow neutral basis, 
preserving our substantial balance sheet 
for new value-adding acquisitions and 
licence opportunities. 
 Continuing to seek licence and 
acquisition opportunities that ﬁt  
with our strategy to create a regional 
champion and international Anglo-
Turkish E&P company. 
 Conducting our business, from  
our strategy right down to the  
day to day running of the business, 
according to the highest levels of 
corporate governance. 
With the combination of our asset portfolio, 
long-standing relationships and our ﬁnancial 
strength, we are in a strong position to 
further develop our existing assets in the 
Kurdistan Region, acquire additional 
opportunities in the Middle East and Africa 
region and to participate in future licensing 
rounds. As the region develops politically,  
we are one of the best-placed resource 
companies to beneﬁt from any de-risking of 
the geopolitical landscape and a consequent 
realisation of sustained oil export prices.
Turkey is a growing inﬂuence in the region 
both politically and economically. Turkey and 
the Kurdistan Region are developing close 
economic ties. In 2011, of the approximate  
$8 billion invested in Iraq, $6 billion of this 
was invested in the Kurdistan Region. The 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq has the potential to 
play a signiﬁcant role in expanding Turkey’s 
energy supply base, the majority of which is 
currently sourced from Iran, Iraq, Russia and 
Azerbaijan. It is in the interests of Turkey,  
the Kurdistan Region and Iraq to develop  
the oil and gas supply route into Turkey.  
This evolving geopolitical situation will likely 
beneﬁt Genel Energy, as Turkey’s leading 
independent energy company.
We are reviewing a range of exciting 
opportunities that ﬁt within our strategy to 
expand our position beyond the Kurdistan 
Region in the Middle East and into Africa.  
We are planning to make one or more 
acquisitions and to participate in new 
licensing rounds in the region. In pursuing 
acquisitions we have four key objectives: to 
diversify our geographical foot print within 
the Middle East and Africa; to extend the life 
of our exploration portfolio; to acquire assets 
that do not dilute the world class quality or 
ﬁnancial returns of our existing portfolio; 
and to acquire new expertise and  
operating capabilities.
Our strong cash resources of $1.9 billion, 
provides a material competitive advantage  
in contrast to most other independent E&P 
companies, many of which struggle to fully 
develop their resources portfolio due to 
capital constraints. This is likely to provide  
a range of value-accretive opportunities for 
Genel Energy. 
We look forward to our shareholders  
and stakeholders joining us on our  
exciting journey.
Tony Hayward, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Mehmet Sepil, President 
 
 
 
 
investing some US$6 billion in 2011 across a 
variety of businesses and projects.
Regardless of political differences, the 
economies of Iraq and the Kurdistan Region 
are highly dependent on the production and 
export of oil and gas. The oil sector currently 
provides Iraq with about 80% of its foreign 
exchange earnings and some 90% of 
government revenue – accordingly a 
productive oil sector in both the Kurdistan 
Region and across Iraq is core to Iraq’s 
future success. 
Despite a ﬂuid political environment the KRG 
has successfully enabled the development of 
a vibrant oil and gas sector . Genel Energy 
was one of the ﬁrst international oil and 
gas companies to enter the Kurdistan 
Region, signing the ﬁrst PSC at T aq T aq in 
2002. Following the ratiﬁcation of the Iraq 
constitution in 2006, the KRG passed the 
Kurdistan Oil and Gas Law in 2007 which 
increased the number of new companies 
entering the region. Initially, the sectors 
development was spearheaded by venture 
capital investors who were followed by 
mid-cap energy companies, with over 40 
licences awarded to some 40 international 
oil companies to date. There is a growing 
conﬁdence in the region and the quality  
of its assets. Most recently, ExxonMobil 
signed six PSCs with the KRG in late 2011.
Kurdistan is a stable and secure operating 
environment with a vibrant and rapidly 
growing economy. Since 1991, the 
Kurdistan Region has operated as an 
autonomous region of Iraq. Its status as  
a semi-autonomous region was formally 
enshrined in the Iraq constitution of 2006 
and it now functions with its own national 
ﬂag, army and border control. 
The KRG has shown a willingness to 
embrace the private sector . Evidence of 
the KRG’s success here is in the rise in  
per capita GDP – from US$800 in 2003  
to some US$4,500 in 2010. Turkey has 
shown its conﬁdence in the Region by 
Operating in the Kurdistan Region  T urkish energy 
champion
Crude oil and water strippers, Taq Taq, Central Processing Facility
