 12
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
I am very pleased 
to welcome you 
to Genel Energy 
plc and our first 
annual report. We 
are a new , vibrant 
and growing 
company and 
we believe we 
have created a 
compelling value 
proposition in the 
space between the 
oil supermajors 
and the small, 
independent  
E&P companies.
Chairman’s  
statement
Rodney Chase, Chairman 13
Genel Energy plc 
Annual Report 
2011
Your Board
As you look at the proﬁles of the members 
of the Board, I hope that you will agree 
that we have brought together a group  
of individuals of outstanding quality.  
It includes people with considerable 
experience in oil and gas and corporate life 
– both globally and in the City of London. 
In addition, we have individuals who have  
a proven track record of engagement with 
key stakeholders in Turkey and Kurdistan. 
This is important as our Turkish roots and 
regional relationships form an important 
part of our competitive advantage. 
The Board is acutely aware of the  
trust that our shareholders have placed  
in us. We have at our disposal cash  
of $1.9 billion, and are in a position to  
execute signiﬁcant acquisitions. If we  
do not see good opportunities to make  
suitable acquisitions, we will return  
capital to shareholders in the most 
appropriate and value accretive way.
I intend that we will comply fully with  
the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Board has 
established several Committees:  
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and 
Health, Safety, Security and Environment. 
Importantly, all Committees are comprised 
only of Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. I am committed to protecting 
the interests of all shareholders through 
compliance with all aspects of corporate 
best practice. More details of our approach 
are outlined in the Corporate Governance 
section of this report, on pages 52-63. 
My fellow Directors and I are also ﬁrmly  
of the belief that we must conduct our 
business in a way that allows us to  
work together with our key stakeholders, 
especially the local communities in which 
we work.
I have worked for over 40 years in the  
oil and gas business, and this Company’s 
prospects truly excite me. I hope that, after 
you examine this report, you will agree  
that we have in place the foundations of  
a Company that can offer our shareholders  
an opportunity where the rewards could  
be signiﬁcant. Our competitive advantages 
include a highly prospective set of  
world class assets and a team capable  
of maximising their inherent value. We  
have deep links with both Turkey and the 
Kurdistan Region, and a robust balance 
sheet available for strategic opportunities 
and asset consolidation. We will also aim to 
create value with the drill bit, building on an 
existing estimated total net reserves and 
unrisked resource base of 1.6 billion barrels 
of oil equivalent.
I realise that working in the Kurdistan 
Region, where our current resources are, 
will bring challenges. These challenges, 
however , created the environment that 
enabled Genel Energy to secure its 
excellent resource portfolio, which in  
more mature environments would not be 
available to an independent E&P company. 
The Board and our management team  
will work hard to manage these aspects  
of our business while retaining the 
entrepreneurial culture that has brought  
us to this exciting point.
From the beginning, we determined that the 
journey we are on to secure value for our 
shareholders must be one that is guided in 
accordance with the highest standards of 
UK-listed companies. My role, as well as  
that of my fellow Directors, is to ensure that, 
while executing our strategy, we manage  
our business to these high standards of 
corporate governance and with a thorough 
understanding and management of the risks 
in our chosen areas of operation. 
The executive team
We are fortunate to have a very strong 
executive team and, in T ony Hayward, we 
have a leader of exceptional experience  
in the resources sector . His team have 
considerable experience in the Kurdistan 
Region and are intent on extracting  
the maximum value from our assets. 
Importantly, in Mehmet Sepil, we have a 
President who is highly respected in both 
Turkey and the Kurdistan Region, with a 
track record of forming strong, valuable 
networks across their Governments  
and institutions.
In addition to our presence in Turkey and  
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, we have  
now established a strong corporate team 
in London.
Enhancing value
Genel Energy’s value will be secured  
and enhanced by the appropriate 
management of risks combined with  
the success of our drill bit. All new 
opportunities, as well as our ongoing 
activities to further develop our assets  
in the Kurdistan Region, will be assessed 
against these criteria. 
I am conﬁdent that, with a sustained and 
rigorous focus on our strategy, combined 
with the robust corporate governance 
structure we have in place, our journey  
to build a major E&P company will be an 
exciting one for our employees, shareholders 
and the communities in which we work.
Rodney Chase, Chairman
