 22 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A joint statement from the Chief 
Executive Officer & President
Genel Energy has had a busy  
and productive 2012, making strong 
progress in our first full year as a public 
company . W e are now an established, 
mainstream independent E&P company , 
a significant achievement for a business 
that listed as an acquisition company  
less than eighteen months ago.
T ony Hayward 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Mehmet Sepil
President  www.genelenergy.com 23
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Last year , we outlined the four pillars of our strategy:
 Maintain the highest levels of corporate governance;
 Continue to fund the development and exploration of  
our assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq from operating  
cash ﬂows;
 Create value with the drill bit; and
 Build a major regional E&P company over the next three  
to ﬁve years through development of our assets in the KRI, 
acquisitions in the Middle East and Africa, and participation  
in future licensing rounds.
We have executed our strategy successfully this year and, as  
a result, we are now an established oil and gas business, with 
an enviable set of exploration and production assets. 
In the years ahead we will continue to build and grow our 
business, guided by three overarching principles of operation:
 As we expand our business footprint, all our operations will 
be run to the highest standards of safety, reliability and 
environmental management;
 We will continue to build our organisational capability by 
recruiting and retaining the best available personnel in  
the industry; and
 We will continue to focus on performance and delivering  
on our strategy.
Risks and Rewards
The global search for signiﬁcant energy resources takes oil 
companies to challenging geographies and political environments. 
Managing the risks inherent in these locations is key, and can  
be done through the appropriate choice of technology, business 
model and method of operation.
Last year , we stated that in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq  
our fundamental means of managing the risks of operating  
in this politically ﬂuid environment and the risk of non-payment 
for exported oil, was to run our operations on a cash ﬂow neutral 
basis. We have done this in 2012, and will continue to do so over 
the short to medium term, with our development and exploration 
activities in the KRI sustained by cash ﬂows generated in  
the region.
Momentum on the ground and in the region
While we have met the criteria we set for ourselves for operating 
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, importantly, the validity of our 
initial strategic decision to enter the region has also been borne 
out by the momentum surrounding both its oil and gas industry 
and the broader geopolitical trends.
On the ground, there is steadily rising production capacity – from 
150,000 bopd in 2011 to an estimate of more than 400,000 bopd 
by the end of 2013. In addition, substantial infrastructure has 
been completed with more planned, including a 1 million bopd 
oil pipeline to Fishkabur on the Turkish border . In parallel, 
signiﬁcant numbers of supermajor and major independent oil 
companies entered the region over the past 12 months – including 
Exxon, Chevron and T otal. With this level of interest building, 
further corporate activity is likely.
At a broader level, and importantly for Genel Energy with our 
strong Turkish identity, the relationship between the KRI and 
Turkey continues to deepen, with many billions of dollars invested 
by Turkish businesses into the KRI over the last two years alone. 
These commercial relationships are now being further reinforced 
with political linkages, culminating in the announcement  
of a regional energy and security cooperation arrangement  
between Turkey and the KRI in 2012. 
The relationship between the Kurdistan Regional Government 
(KRG) and the Federal Government of Iraq (FGI) remains 
challenging. There have been some signs of progress in the latter 
half of the year , with an agreement reached on 13 September , 
in which the FGI agreed to the payment of $850 million for 
outstanding payments due to contractors for historic oil exported 
from the KRI, and the KRG agreed to continue exports from the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq. The KRG received an initial payment of 
$530 million on 8 October 2012; however , a second payment, 
expected to be around $300 million, has not yet been received.  
In response to the failure of the FGI to make the second payment 
or to include an appropriate level of payments for exports from 
the KRI in the 2013 central Iraq budget, in December the KRG 
halted exports from the KRI using FGI controlled infrastructure. 
Since the year end, the KRI has commenced exports of small 
volumes of crude oil to Turkey by truck.
Although the relationship between the KRG and the FGI is beyond 
our control, our continued management of our business in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq on a cash ﬂow neutral basis reduces  
our risk proﬁle in accordance with our stated strategy. 
Strong Progress in 2012
Operational progress and reserves growth
We made material operational progress on the ground in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, with the drilling of six appraisal wells,  
two exploration wells and the continuing development of our 
major oil ﬁelds at T aq T aq and T awke. 
Our successful 2012 appraisal programme led to gross 2P 
reserves at T awke being upgraded in May to 734 million bbls, 
184 million bbls net to Genel. Combined with T aq T aq, these two 
“world class” ﬁelds contribute net 2P reserves of 445 million boe 
to Genel Energy. We expect our strong reserves growth to 
continue with the execution of our planned appraisal and 
development programme in 2013 and beyond.
At T aq T aq, we are on track to reach 200,000 gross bopd 
production capacity in 2014. The ﬁrst phase of the KRG’s new oil 
pipeline infrastructure linking the T aq T aq ﬁeld directly to Iraq’s 
Kirkuk-Ceyhan export pipeline and the Erbil reﬁnery, is expected 
to be operational in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013. Phase II, linking 
oilﬁelds in the KRI directly to Fishkabur on the Turkish border , is 
expected to be complete by early 2014. This will add signiﬁcant 
additional export capacity from T aq T aq and our other ﬁelds, 
including the adjacent Bina Bawi ﬁeld. In addition, at T awke our 
plan to increase gross production capacity to 200,000 bopd by 
the end of 2014 is also on track.
Acquisition of world class assets 
By increasing our holdings in both Miran and Bina Bawi on 
attractive terms, Genel Energy acquired material interests in  
two further world class assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.  
This doubled our presence, with Genel Energy now having 
material positions in four world class ﬁelds, while also adding 
almost 600 million boe of net contingent resources.  24 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A joint statement from the  
Chief Executive Officer & President continued
The Miran and Bina Bawi acquisitions provide Genel Energy 
with the opportunity to develop a second wave of projects in  
the KRI, similar in scale and quality to our existing world class 
production assets, providing further opportunities to increase 
shareholder value.
Genel Energy’s 100 per cent holding of the commercial oil and gas 
discovery at Miran (with a 25 per cent back-in right available to 
the KRG) gives us control of a ﬁeld with current contingent and 
risked prospective resources of 3.8 trillion cubic feet of gas and 
some 128 million barrels of liquids. We are committed to moving 
the project forward in 2013 and are focused on three things: early 
oil development, gas ﬁeld development and full appraisal of the 
resource potential of the block. 
Turkey is a natural destination for Miran’s gas resources, one of 
the world’s leading importers of natural gas. Gas from the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq provides the Turkish Government with an 
opportunity to meet an ever increasing supply gap. KRI gas would 
assist Turkey in achieving its stated goal of diversifying sources of 
supply, as the majority of its gas requirements are currently 
imported by pipeline from Russia, Iran and Azerbaijan, 
supplemented by contracted spot LNG supplies. In conjunction 
with the KRG and the Turkish Government, we are continuing 
negotiations with customers for long-term Miran gas sale 
agreements and plans are being developed to build on existing 
capacity to install gas export infrastructure from the KRI into the 
existing Turkish gas transmission system.
At Bina Bawi, where Genel Energy holds a 44 per cent interest, 
signiﬁcant hydrocarbons have been conﬁrmed in two of the three 
exploration wells. T wo appraisal wells are currently being drilled 
and an extended well test is expected to begin in the ﬁrst half of 
2013. A full ﬁeld development plan is to be submitted in the latter 
half of 2013.
Assembling a high impact African portfolio
In line with our strategy, this year also saw Genel Energy begin 
to assemble a high impact African exploration portfolio, with 
material positions in Morocco, Malta, Somaliland and Côte d’Ivoire, 
covering multiple petroleum systems with estimated exposure to 
net unrisked prospective resources of over 3.3 billion boe. These 
positions rebalance our overall portfolio towards exploration as a 
counterweight to our large appraisal and development projects in 
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, while also providing geopolitical 
diversity. These acquisitions were made after careful screening, 
ﬁltered through a process where we considered over 100 
opportunities in the past year . 
Building professional capacity 
We have continued to build both our management team and 
our operational and technical capacity in tandem with our 
expanded geographic and resources footprint. In 2012, we added 
over 30 technical staff, drawn from some of the world’s largest 
and most successful energy companies. By putting in place a high 
calibre group of operational and technical professionals and a 
strong corporate team, we have the means to deliver the potential 
of our resource base. 
Operating sustainability
We continue to work hard to ensure that our presence makes  
a meaningful and positive contribution to the areas in which we 
operate and is sustainable over the long term, core to which is our 
commitment to operate safely and reliably. There have been no 
fatalities and few Lost Time Injuries (“L TIs”) in 2012 and we are 
committed to this remaining the case in 2013 and beyond.
Our operations in the KRI are signiﬁcant and, accordingly, our 
presence should make a correspondingly signiﬁcant and positive 
contribution to its people, both those in the immediate geographic 
area of our operations and the broader society. We do this 
through a range of programmes including health, education and 
employment opportunities for those in the immediate geographic 
area of our ﬁelds and operations, as well as more broadly in the 
KRI, including through activities such as labour exchanges 
and educational support, building the Kurdistan Region of Iraq’s 
own capability. The Corporate Responsibility section of this report 
provides more detail on our approach and activities around this 
core aspect of our business.
Outlook 
The steps we took in 2012, both in consolidating our position 
as the leading – and most experienced – E&P company in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq and in securing an exciting portfolio  
of additional exploration assets in Africa, provide a clear shape 
for our Company over the medium term. 
Our strong production proﬁle and our extensive exploration 
programme places us at the forefront of independent E&P 
companies, with the capacity and the capital base to fulﬁl our 
ambitions. We will complete four further high impact exploration 
wells in 2013 – T awke Deep, T aq T aq Deep, Chia Surkh 10 and 
Chia Surkh 11. 
In Africa, work programmes are underway across all our blocks, 
and we are in advanced negotiations to secure a rig for a 10 
well offshore drilling programme. The programme is expected 
to commence in the last quarter of 2013 in Morocco.
 $1. 0bn
 Cash  www.genelenergy.com 25
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Our resource base today
Genel Energy’s estimated net resource base is 5.4 billion boe. Proven and probable net reserves in  
our two producing fields (T aq T aq and T awke) are 445 mmbbls with further possible net reserves  
of 209 mmbbls, contingent net resources are 810 mmboe and unrisked prospective net resources  
are 3.9 billion boe.
2P Reserves
445 mmboe
 
Possible Reserves 
209 mmboe
 
Contingent Resources
810 mmboe
 
Unrisked Prospective Resources 
3,897 mmboe 
Unrisked Mean Resources
729 mmboe 
Contingent Resources 
175 mmboe 
Possible Reserves
266 mmboe
2P Reserves
412 mmboe
December 2012
December 2011
T otal w orking interest reserves and unrisked resources increased over 240% from 1.6 billion to 5.4 billion boe
+ 3,168
mmboe
+ 636 
mmboe
 – 5 6
mmboe
 +33 
mmboe
Building on our strong progress
Genel Energy has made strong progress in 2012. We have 
established ourselves as one of the leading independent E&P 
companies and can point to a signiﬁcant number of major 
achievements over the year:
 Genel Energy is the leading oil and gas producer in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, with four material oil and gas  
ﬁelds which have signiﬁcant upside;
 We have established a high impact African exploration  
portfolio, with material positions in three underexplored 
hydrocarbon basins;
 A high quality team of experienced oil and gas professionals 
is in place to execute our projects; and
 Genel Energy remains in a powerful ﬁnancial position  
with circa $1 billion in cash available for further  
business development.
By successfully executing our strategy, we increased our total 
working interest reserves and unrisked resources by nearly 250 
per cent, from 1.6 billion to 5.4 billion boe. This exceptional growth 
equates to more than tripling our unrisked prospective resources 
to 3.9 billion barrels, increasing our proven and probable reserves 
by 8 per cent to 445 million boe and adding nearly 650 million 
boe to our contingent resources, which now stand at 810 million 
boe. All this was achieved in a little over twelve months. Our 
achievements in 2012 clearly demonstrate that we can compete 
with the world’s largest energy companies in the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq and secure world class proven resources that will create 
further value for our shareholders. 
Our vision for Genel Energy’s future is equally exciting, based on a 
combination of a signiﬁcantly growing resource base and the 
ability to bring these resources out of the ground and to market. 
We have in place a strong programme enabling production to rise 
towards 500,000 bopd by the end of the decade, representing an 
average annual growth rate of 25 per cent. 
With the resources we have acquired and that we continue to 
grow, the team we have established and the programmes we have 
in place, we are conﬁdent that we can offer our shareholders and 
stakeholders the prospect of exciting and rewarding times ahead, 
as we continue our journey to being a major E&P company 
operating to world class standards in world class provinces.
T ony Hayward, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Mehmet Sepil, President 
Note: all numbers shown are Genel Energy working interest reserves and resources.
Source: McDaniel & Associates June 2011 (T aq T aq reserves, T aq T aq Deep, T awke Deep, Chia Surkh mean prospective resources), DeGolyer & MacNaughton 
January 2012 (T awke contingent resources) and May 2012 (T awke reserves), RPS November 2012 (Miran contingent and prospective resources), Genel Energy 
(Dohuk & Bina Bawi contingent resources, Peshkabir and African prospective resources).
