 20 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to welcome you to Genel 
Energy’s second Annual Report.  
Over the past twelve months we have 
made considerable progress in delivering 
our strategic objectives and as a result, we 
are well positioned for an exciting future 
as a major independent E&P company .
Rodney Chase 
Chairman  www.genelenergy.com 21
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Building Genel Energy
In 2012, we built on our competitive advantage in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq, consolidating our position as the leading E&P 
company in what is one of the most exciting new frontiers in oil 
and gas. The importance of the KRI as a major hydrocarbon 
province has been underlined by the recent entry of some of  
the world’s largest oil and gas companies. Over the year , we have 
enhanced our position in the KRI through careful acquisitions  
and expansion, particularly in natural gas, where we are putting  
in place the operational infrastructure to connect our world class 
resources to the large and rapidly growing Turkish energy market. 
We have also begun to implement our strategy to build an 
extensive African exploration portfolio. Our entry into Morocco, 
Somaliland, Côte d’Ivoire and Malta provides us with an exciting 
set of opportunities in Africa. 
Y our Board has reviewed these opportunities carefully, mindful of 
our obligation to protect and enhance shareholder value and with 
full regard to the risks and opportunities involved. 
Importantly, in parallel with Genel Energy’s reserves and 
resources growth we have also grown our professional team  
in both oil and gas operations and in our corporate group. It is 
particularly rewarding to see the calibre of people Genel Energy 
has been able to attract. This adds signiﬁcant capability to our 
business and provides us with the professional skills and 
management experience to execute our projects and operations 
efﬁciently and to the best industry standards. Ultimately, it  
is our people who will secure and realise the value in our  
material assets.
Governance and Risk Management
In April 2012, Chakib Sbiti joined your Board, taking the total 
number of Directors to twelve, of which seven are deemed 
Independent. Chakib previously held the positions of President 
Asia and Middle East and Executive Vice President of Oilﬁeld 
Services for Schlumberger , more recently acting as adviser to 
Schlumberger’s Chairman and CEO. He brings to your Board 
extensive experience of oilﬁeld operations and of the regions 
where we operate.
As we discuss in the Governance section of this report, we have 
strong, independent Audit and Remuneration Committees to 
ensure that we meet the standards we have set for ourselves. 
These form an integral part of our overarching strategy of strict 
adherence to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and compliance with all aspects of corporate best practice. 
Our exploration and production interests come with signiﬁcant 
challenges. Our chosen areas of operations need careful 
monitoring and a deep understanding of regional issues.
Assessing the risks across the business is one of your Board’s 
core oversight responsibilities, so we recently established a 
Political Risk Committee, with Mark Parris acting as Chairman. 
This Committee is focused on ensuring that your Board is well 
equipped with knowledge of the geopolitical trends and issues 
that directly or indirectly impact on Genel Energy’s current and 
future activities. The Governance section of this report provides 
further information on its purpose and objectives. 
Regional Relationships
Maintaining good relationships with the governments where we 
operate is key to our long-term success, and we pay particular 
attention to this aspect of our business.
We are working closely both with the Kurdistan Regional 
Government and Turkish Government on the long-term supply  
of gas from the Kurdistan Region of Iraq into the Turkish  
gas market, a very signiﬁcant project requiring substantial 
infrastructure development. 
The Future
We have achieved much in our ﬁrst full year as a publicly listed 
company. Over the next year and beyond we will be working 
hard to establish the necessary facilities and infrastructure  
to bring to market more of the world class resources we now  
have in our portfolio, and we will continue drilling our extensive 
exploration portfolio. Genel Energy’s Board will ensure that all of 
these activities take place within a company whose culture sets 
high standards – in both its operations and Corporate Governance. 
Rodney Chase, Chairman
