 16
Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
A JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT
2013 HAS BEEN ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR GENEL ENERGY . WE 
CONTINUED TO DELIVER OUR STRA TEGY AND AGAIN GREW OUR REVENUES  
AND RESOURCES. IN ADDITION, THE ENORMOUS POTENTIAL OF OUR  
WORLD CLASS OIL AND GAS PORTFOLIO HAS BEEN FURTHER CLARIFIED  
BY POSITIVE POLITICAL MOMENTUM IN THE KURDISTAN REGION OF IRAQ. 
BEYOND THE KRI, WE ALSO COMMENCED OUR HIGH-IMPACT AFRICAN 
EXPLORATION DRILLING CAMPAIGN.  17
www.genelenergy.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY
Our strategy is composed of four pillars:
• Maintain the highest level of  
corporate governance
• Continue to create value with  
the drill bit
• Maximise the potential of our KRI 
business on a broadly cash flow  
neutral basis
• Maximise shareholder returns by 
monetising at all points in the 
exploration, development and 
production cycle 
In 2013, we continued to take significant 
strides towards reaching our goal of 
building a major independent E&P 
company. Working interest production  
in the year averaged 44,000 bopd and  
for the first time we received payments 
directly for oil exports made by truck 
through Turkey. This was a landmark 
event for both the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq and Genel Energy, illustrating the 
political advances made between the  
KRI and Turkey over the year.
In line with our strategy, we continued to 
develop further our KRI assets on a cash 
flow neutral basis, enabling us to deploy 
the capital on our balance sheet to expand 
our high-impact exploration portfolio in 
the Middle East and Africa. The strength  
of our balance sheet continues to give  
us a strong competitive advantage, and  
we are leveraging that advantage to 
enable us to create substantial value for 
our shareholders over the short, medium 
and long-term. 
In 2013, appraisal success at Bina Bawi  
and Tawke added material resources. In 
addition, we enjoyed 100% exploration 
success with three out of three wells 
drilled finding resources: a new oil and  
gas discovery was made on the Chia Surkh 
field and there were further discoveries at 
both Ber Bahr and Tawke Deep. In total, 
our activities with the drill bit added over 
270 mmboe of contingent resources. Our 
continuing programme of exploration and 
development, boosted by the significant 
potential in our African assets, provides 
exciting opportunities in 2014.
MOMENTUM IN THE KRI AND  
THE BUSINESS
Positive political developments this  
year between the KRI and Turkey have  
laid a clearer route to market for our 
resources, with operational progress  
on the ground helping us to take 
advantage of this. The signing of an 
Energy Framework Agreement between 
Turkey and the Kurdistan Regional 
Government has further enhanced the 
relationship between the two governments 
and led to the commencement of exports 
of KRI crude oil by truck to Ceyhan, on  
the Mediterranean coast in Turkey. From 
there, the crude is sold by the KRG on the 
international market. This resulted in the 
receipt of our first direct payment for 
Genel Energy oil exports. 
Trucked exports from Taq Taq to 
international markets via Turkey 
commenced in January 2013 and steadily 
increased, with exports on individual  
days towards the end of the year totalling 
some 70,000 bopd. This was a landmark  
event, confirming that oil companies 
operating in the KRI, including Genel 
Energy, can export crude to world  
markets and receive regular payments  
for these barrels. 
The mechanical completion of the  
KRI-Turkey pipeline provides the 
foundation for a further step change  
in Genel Energy’s scale and financial 
strength, and will allow a significant 
increase in our international exports once 
commissioning is complete. By removing 
trucks it will lower transportation cost and 
improve operational efficiency, providing a 
boost to revenue and cash flow. Although 
the pipeline may not reach capacity until 
the second half of the year, production –  
which averaged 44,000 bopd in 2013 – is 
expected to average 60-70,000 boepd in 
2014 due to additional production capacity 
coming onstream, with the infrastructure 
to utilise this increased capacity. 
The strengthening relationship between 
the KRG and their counterparts in Ankara 
is rapidly clarifying the route to market  
for our world-class resources, with the 
pipeline its clearest physical manifestation. 
Two key agreements this year clearly 
illustrate the political progress made in 
2013: the wide-ranging energy agreement 
signed between the KRG and Government 
of Turkey in November, and a Gas Sales 
Agreement governing the export of 
natural gas from the KRI to Turkey –  
of particular importance for Genel Energy 
due to the steps we have taken in building  
a very material world-class gas business. 
The GSA calls for an initial 4 bcma of  
gas exports from 2017, rising to 10 bcma 
by 2020 and potentially 20 bcma by  
the middle of the next decade. This is  
a very significant milestone in the 
commercialisation of our gas resources, 
giving us access to one of the world’s 
largest and fastest growing gas markets 
and positioning Miran and Bina Bawi as 
anchor suppliers to Turkey as the country 
continues to grow its energy requirements.
BUILDING A MAJOR E&P COMPANY
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
Significant operational progress was  
made on the ground in our KRI acreage. 
Successful exploration and appraisal 
drilling at Bina Bawi, Chia Surkh and  
Ber Bahr added to our contingent 
resources. The first two horizontal  
wells on the Tawke field, Tawke-20 and 
Tawke-23, were brought onstream at  
rates of 25,000 bopd and 32,500 bopd, 
materially exceeding expectations. 
Net working interest production for 2013 
averaged 44,000 bopd, in line with 2012, 
with gross Taq Taq production in 2013 
averaging 77,000 bopd. Over the course of 
the year, exports from Taq Taq averaged 
around 20,000 bopd, with the remainder 
routed to domestic deliveries (including  
the Bazian refinery).
Capacity upgrades are currently being 
progressed at both Taq Taq and Tawke. 
The construction of the second central 
processing facility at Taq Taq is underway 
and is planned for completion and 
commissioning in the fourth quarter of 
2014. This will raise production capacity 
from 120,000 bopd to 200,000 bopd.  
At Tawke, planning is underway to  
double the current processing capacity  
of 100,000 bopd by the end of 2014.
In parallel with the development of our oil 
assets, we continued with the development 
of our major gas resources in the Miran 
and Bina Bawi fields.  18
KRG- TURKEY ENERGY AGREEMENT
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE KURDISTAN REGION OF IRAQ AND TURKEY 
HAS CONTINUED TO DEEPEN, CULMINATING IN THE SIGNING OF THE LANDMARK 
KRG- TURKEY ENERGY AGREEMENT ON 27TH NOVEMBER 2013. 
 
Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
A JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER & PRESIDENT 
CONTINUED
A Declaration of Commerciality for the 
Miran field, which we estimate contains 
around 8 tcf of gross recoverable contingent 
and unrisked prospective resources, was 
approved by the Ministry of Natural 
Resources of the KRG in September 2013. 
In February 2014 the KRG exercised their 
right to back into 25% of the Miran 
licence. Discussions with the KRG are now 
underway to finalise a gas sales offtake 
agreement for the Miran field. In parallel, 
we continued to screen a number of 
development concepts, incorporating  
both export and domestic supply options. 
In the KRI, we believe that the domestic  
gas market represents a significant 
opportunity for Genel Energy: the 
combination of growing demand, low  
cost projects and short lead times has  
the potential to deliver attractive returns. 
In recognition of this opportunity, in 
September 2013 with our partners on  
the Dohuk licence, we signed a gas sales 
and purchase agreement with the KRG  
to supply gas from the Summail field to  
a local power station – the first contract  
of its kind in the KRI.
A HIGH-IMPACT DRILLING CAMPAIGN
Having built a highly prospective portfolio 
of assets in Africa, we are excited that 
drilling has now begun. In line with our 
strategy, we have a material position  
in each asset in our portfolio, offering  
us – and our shareholders – a significant 
opportunity. In total, we expect five 
high-impact well results in 2014,  
targeting gross 1.2 bnboe.
This included a Gas Sales Agreement, 
calling for an initial 4 bcma of gas 
exports from 2017, rising thereafter. 
The Miran and Bina Bawi fields  
will deliver the gas supply to 
underpin this agreement, 
making the signature a 
significant milestone in the 
commercialisation of our 
major gas resources.
The most prominent, 
physical manifestation of  
the strength of the KRI-Turkey 
relationship has been the KRI 
export pipeline infrastructure,  
which is now mechanically complete. 
Commissioning of the system is 
ongoing and is expected to continue 
through the first half of 2014. 
The first KRI pipeline oil  
has arrived at Ceyhan  
in Turkey and volumes 
continue to grow in 
storage. Discussions 
between the KRG and 
Baghdad continue in order  
to reach an agreement on oil 
exports and revenue sharing 
from exports through the pipeline. 
4 BCMA
OF GAS EXPORTS 
FROM 2017
DECEMBER 2013
2P RESERVES
453 MMBOE  
POSSIBLE RESERVES 
207 MMBOE 
CONTINGENT RESOURCES
1,088 MMBOE
UNRISKED PROSPECTIVE RESOURCES 
4,135 MMBOE
UNRISKED MEAN RESOURCES
3,897 MMBOE 
CONTINGENT RESOURCES 
810 MMBOE 
POSSIBLE RESERVES
209 MMBOE
2P RESERVES
445 MMBOE
DECEMBER 2012
Total net working interest reserves and unrisked resources increased over 9% from 5.4 bnboe to 5.9 bnboe.
             +238
mmboe
+ 278 
mmboe
   +8 
mmboe
 –2
mmboe
OUR RESOURCE BASE TODA Y 19
www.genelenergy.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
The first well in the Africa exploration 
programme spudded in early January 2014 
on the Juby Maritime licence offshore 
Morocco, and exploration drilling offshore 
Malta is anticipated to start  around the 
end of the first quarter of 2014. The Maltese 
well, on the Hagar Qim prospect, will be 
the first to utilise the Noble Paul Romano 
deepwater semi-submersible rig, which  
we have secured for a two year period. 
This portfolio contains tremendous 
potential that we will look to build upon  
as we continue to seek acquisitions that  
fit our strict criteria. Each transaction  
that we execute is the result of careful 
screening and a robust internal process. 
Guiding all our decisions is the fact that  
we will not contemplate any transaction  
that could negatively impact the overall  
quality of our world-class portfolio. 
In addition to the exciting prospects in  
our African portfolio, there still remains 
significant potential in our KRI exploration 
portfolio, particularly the Miran Deep and 
Chia Surkh prospects.
GROWING PROFESSIONAL CAPACITY
As our operations expand and progress, 
we are concurrently growing the 
operational and technical capacity of our 
workforce by securing the highest quality 
personnel to drive our business forward. 
Importantly, we have been able to secure 
people with senior-level experience at 
major companies, with a number of new 
senior management hires made in 2013. 
As our exploration campaign ramps  
up in Africa, we have also added to  
the capabilities of our technical team.  
We have created a bespoke drilling team, 
providing us with the means to deliver  
on the potential of this asset base. Our 
subsurface function now has considerable 
relevant experience of the geology and 
regions in which we operate, analysing  
and ascertaining the best locations for  
our drill sites, maximising the potential  
for successful discoveries and creating 
value for shareholders. 
OPERATING SUSTAINABL Y
Supporting and sustaining the communities 
in which we operate is fundamental  
to Genel Energy’s success and our 
commitment to being a sustainable 
business. Our operations in the KRI are 
supported by an extensive community 
investment programme which aims to 
improve the lives of the communities with 
whom we work, working in partnership  
to identify and meet community needs. 
One of our great strengths is our decade-
long legacy of positive engagement with 
local communities in the KRI: over this 
time we have carried out more than 100 
community investment projects focused 
on health, education and cultural activities. 
As we expand our presence in Africa,  
we will be informed by this experience. 
Reflecting our efforts to date, we issued 
our first Community Engagement and 
Investment Report in 2013, providing  
an overview of our past activities and 
plans for the future. It is available to  
read at www.genelenergy.com. In 2015,  
we will expand this report and issue it 
concurrently with our Annual Report.
OUTLOOK 
2013 was a transformational year for 
Genel Energy, with the progress we have 
made across all aspects of our portfolio 
placing us in a very strong position as we 
commence 2014. In the near-term, we will 
see further progress in the development  
of our KRI asset base, with increased oil 
production and export volumes and in the 
development of our world-class gas assets. 
The commencement of drilling on our 
African exploration portfolio heralds  
the start of another exciting phase of 
activity, success at any of our scheduled 
exploration wells in 2014 has the prospect  
of making a positive material impact on 
our already significant reserve and 
resource base.
Looking further ahead, the strength of  
our balance sheet ideally positions us  
to capitalise on any value-accretive 
opportunities that meet our strict criteria. 
Overall, 2014 is set to be another very 
exciting year for Genel Energy. 
TONY HA YWARD, 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
MEHMET SEPIL, 
PRESIDENT
IN 2013, WE CONTINUED  
TO TAKE SIGNIFICANT 
STRIDES TOWARDS OUR 
GOAL OF BUILDING A  
MAJOR INDEPENDENT  
E&P COMPANY. 
