 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTENTS
06 Business strategy
08 Business review 
13 Group financial results
13 Sustainable business
14 People
17 Principal risks and uncertainties
17 Outlook
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 06
We strive to 
be our clients’
partner of choice
in the built
environment,
where we offer
integrated
solutions to meet
clients’ needs.
Our three core businesses made substantial
progress in 2006, delivering further good
growth in underlying profits. This excellent
performance was achieved through the
dedication and commitment of our people 
and again re-emphasises the robustness of our
strategy. However, the discovery of extensive
fraud within our slate business, which is
covered later in this Business Review, has
clearly overshadowed what would otherwise
have been another successful year for 
Alfred McAlpine.
The principal operational achievements of
2006 have been the mobilisation of three
major new facilities management contracts,
including our largest ever with Mapeley, 
and the continued implementation of the
planned programme of investment in our core
businesses which is key to our future success.
We invested over £20m, including £10m 
in the implementation of two major new 
IT systems which will enhance operational
efficiency. After this investment, we generated
a free cash flow* of £25.1m before 
one-off costs.
Business strategy
Alfred McAlpine is committed to building 
value for investors through sustained, controlled
growth. This will be driven by our continued
focus on delivering services and solutions 
in the built environment, by developing 
a balanced business, without over dependence
on one client or market, and by providing
outstanding service which is the basis of the
long-term relationships that we look to build
with our clients.
*operating cash flow less net capital expenditure,
interest and tax
   Telecoms
A well balanced business
(Type of customer by industry sector)
(%)
 Education
Water
Electricity
National roads
Rail
government
Local & other
Defence
Health
Financial &
Technology
Retail
Aviation
Leisure
Housing &
Industrials
Other
commercial
property
professional
services
Private         
Regulated         
Public
Gas
9  
9  
Our services span many
sectors and we have no 
over dependence on any 
one sector or client. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200607
£1 20bn*
(p.a. )
Total projected annual value 
of the addressable market for 
Alfred McAlpine in outsourcing
and investment in the UK’s
infrastructure.
Alfred McAlpine today is positioned in large
growth markets driven by the continuing 
trend to outsource the maintenance and
management of buildings and by the high 
level of investment required to renew the UK’s
health, leisure and education facilities and 
its transport and utility infrastructure. We
estimate the size of our addressable UK
market to be £120bn p.a.*, which allows 
us to continue to take a selective approach to
new business and ensure that the risk/reward
is acceptable. 
We strive to be our clients’ partner of choice 
in the built environment, where we offer
integrated solutions to meet clients’ needs. 
We can design, finance, build, operate and
maintain buildings and infrastructure, or apply
our expertise in one or several of these areas
to deliver solutions that meet our clients’
specific requirements.
To build the long-term, lower risk visible
earnings streams that we have targeted, we
aim to generate at least 70% of our revenues
from activities that are undertaken under 
long-term contracts or framework agreements,
based on service excellence and the breadth 
of our offer. Over 75% of our order book 
is made up of these types of long-term
partnership agreements.
As a Group, our primary financial targets are
to generate strong profit and earnings growth
and to maximise our cash balances. These will
drive increases in shareholder value. To do this
we have to improve our business continuously
by investing in the development of our people
and operational efficiency. 
Our reputation and the foundation on which
our future growth and success rely, are based
on our people. We believe that a positive
culture, based on robust values, is essential 
to both high quality customer service and
continuous improvement. 
From 2004 we have measured employee
satisfaction with and commitment to Alfred
McAlpine using the MORI employee advocacy
model. Our rating has improved year-on-year
and, most encouragingly, our key employee
satisfaction is now at Top 10 level for the UK
private sector. Our performance is explained 
in more detail in the People section of this
Business Review starting on page 14. 
Our medium-term objective remains the
achievement of engagement and advocacy
levels that are in the top 10% for UK private
sector organisations. This will ensure that we
are able to recruit, retain and motivate the 
people who will fulfil our commitment to 
excellent customer service and innovation
which differentiates Alfred McAlpine from 
its competitors. This investment in people
development is mirrored by continued
investment in our business infrastructure 
to ensure that it is fit for purpose and can
support the growth that we are targeting.
We are also committed to providing a safe
environment for our employees, customers,
supply chain partners and the public. Over the
last six years we have reduced our accident
frequency rate significantly from 0.35 in 2000
to 0.14 in 2006, and we now have a sector-
leading Accident Frequency Rate. We remain 
on track to deliver our objective of achieving
an Accident Frequency Rate of 0.10 or less by
2010, which equates to less than one accident
per million hours worked. Our ultimate ambition
is to work in a zero accident environment. 
Long-term visible earnings
(£m)
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013+
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Secured order book 
as at 31 December 2006
*source: Mintel, DEFRA, MOD, DTLR, Department of Health, DfES, HM Treasury, OFWAT, OFGEM, 
DTI, Company Estimates ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 08
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
Business review
Good progress has been made in each of our
core businesses.
Business Services
Business Services continued to make excellent
progress and delivered another strong year 
of organic revenue and profit growth. Profit
before tax increased 10% to £23.6m (2005:
£21.4m) on revenues which grew by 19% 
to £430.8m (2005: £361.1m).
Business Services is a leading provider of facilities
management services. We work with our clients
to develop, manage and deliver solutions that
improve the performance and quality of their
built environment assets and reduce operating
costs. Founded on our engineering and project
management expertise, we provide business
critical support, with an emphasis on pro-
active and preventative facilities and asset
management through our service helpdesks
and engineering service centres. These services
are complemented by hard FM services, 
such as mechanical and electrical engineering
and fabric maintenance, and by consultancy
services, such as environmental, energy and
waste management consultancy and health
and safety compliance, management. This
range of added value services enables Alfred
McAlpine to offer total facilities management
solutions for the built environment.
The outsourced element of the UK facilities
management market is estimated to be worth
approximately £60bn* p.a.. Overall, including
the element currently serviced in-house, the
UK facilities management market is estimated
to be worth around £200bn* p.a.. The trend 
to outsource facilities management is being
maintained and these markets continue 
to grow as organisations continue to seek 
to secure short- and long-term cost savings 
by leveraging the experience and skills
provided by expert facilities management
service providers.
Major client wins in the year included Mapeley,
which is worth more than £800m over its 
15-year term, under which Alfred McAlpine
provides facilities management services across
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs’ estate.
Other major new contracts were secured in the
year in the financial services sector with Bank
of Ireland and Royal Bank of Scotland. These,
combined with the extension of our long-term
contract with Halifax Bank of Scotland for 
a further five years, confirm our position 
as a leading provider of FM services to the
financial sector.
This performance has enabled us to maintain 
a strong order book in this business, with
typical contract lengths of between three 
and seven years.
Business Services entered 2007 with a strong
pipeline of new opportunities. Since the start
of the year, a further £50m of new business
has been won. We further strengthened our
offering through the acquisition of Enviros 
on 1 February 2007. This acquisition allows 
us to meet current and prospective clients’
needs for environmental consultancy and
solutions across their property portfolios. 
It also offers us significant cross-selling
opportunities both to existing Business Services’
clients and to clients across other parts of the
Group. Enviros, which in 2006 generated
operating profit of £2.0m from revenues 
of £29.5m, will continue to trade under 
its own brand name.
With our ability to offer total facilities
management solutions across all sectors and the
continuing trend to outsource these services,
the business is well set for sustained long-term
growth. We will remain focused on delivering
this strong organic growth, whilst continuing
to look to enhance our service offering
through bolt-on acquisitions.
Project Services
Project Services enjoyed another successful
year in 2006. Underlying profit before tax
increased by 5% to £17.4m (2005: £16.5m)
from revenues that increased by 8% to
£402.1m (2005: £372.9m). Of the profit
before tax generated by Project Services, 
our PFI interests contributed £1.9m.
Project Services comprises our construction
services and investment and land-led
development businesses. It provides building
and civil engineering services to local and
national government, to commercial developers
and to the health, education and leisure 
sectors. It also manages the development, 
financing, construction and maintenance of
long-term assets, including Alfred McAlpine’s
PFI investments.
We take a very selective approach to the 
work that we bid for, ensuring that it matches
our skillset and provides an acceptable risk/
reward. Reflecting this, the business is now
focused on longer-term, lower-risk earnings
streams based on framework and Early
Contractor Involvement (‘ECI’) schemes 
and on development and investment led
opportunities, where we can capitalise on our
project management and financing expertise.
During the year, we added £330m of new
business to the order book, including two 
new ECI schemes, taking our total number 
of ECI schemes to ten. We also extended our
earthworks and structures framework contract
with Network Rail for the Great Western
Region and won a series of new development
and construction contracts. These included
contracts to build one of the UK’s first new
generation primary healthcare centres at
Aldershot and to design and build Bluestone,
the first of a new generation of eco-friendly
destination holiday villages, in Pembrokeshire. 
£60bn*
(p.a.)
Outsourced UK facilities
management market.
*source: Mintel, DEFRA, MOD, DTLR, Department of Health, DfES, HM Treasury, OFWAT, OFGEM, 
DTI, Company Estimates ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200609
The £190m 30-year project to deliver a new
Biomedical Campus for the Cambridge
University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust is
managed by Key Health Services, a joint
venture between Alfred McAlpine and NIB
Capital Bank NV , which was awarded the
contract to design, build, finance and maintain
three new buildings on the site.
The new six-storey hospital extension, a
research building, new entrance and atrium 
to link the new facilities to the rest of the
hospital has provided Addenbrooke’s with 
128 extra beds and six new operating theatres. 
The new facilities are vital to the hospital 
in its capacity as a national and regional centre
for cancer services, liver transplants, organ
transplantation, neurosciences and genetics, 
as well as a local district hospital serving the
growing local population.
In what was a very complex project, Alfred
McAlpine’ s construction team completed 
the £74m construction phase on schedule 
in February 2007, when responsibility for the
building passed to Alfred McAlpine’s facilities
management team. The team will maintain 
the facility for the next 30 years. To keep 
the fast pace of the build on track, the two
teams worked closely, with teams of specialists
following each other through the three
buildings, fitting out section by section. This
needed careful planning and control but it was
all in a day’s work for the construction team.
The slower but more traditional way would
have been to wait until a whole building was
ready for fitting-out.
Rex Holmes is the project director for Alfred
McAlpine. “Working in such close partnerships
demands a lot of trust,” he says. “Good
planning and communication between us, 
Key Health and the Trust is vital. We have a very
good relationship with the hospital that gives us
space to operate. There are no petty arguments;
we’re all working for the same goal.”
Wyn Hughes is the NHS Trust’ s Project Manager.
He is pleased with progress and agrees that 
the relationship the Trust has with Key Health
Services and Alfred McAlpine is very good,
“This is the Trust’s first PFI and it’s been an
education for us, especially the tender process,”
says Wyn. “We’ve had to get to grips with a
new way of working but we’re very pleased
with progress and how the project is being
managed. There is a good atmosphere and 
Key Health and Alfred McAlpine have been 
very amenable and fair. They’re easy people 
to work with.”
£74m
two-year construction phase.
128
extra beds and six new 
operating theatres.
In just two years, Alfred McAlpine
has helped the world renowned
Addenbrooke’s Hospital in
Cambridge to become a major
centre for treatment and research
on a European scale as well 
as to provide twenty-first century
healthcare to the fast growing
population of East Anglia.
£1 90m
total contract value.
30years
contract length for 
facilities management. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 10
Major ECI projects that entered the construction
phase during 2006 included Phase II of the
Leeds Inner Ring Road, the first of the schools
being built under the Dorset Schools framework
and the Highways Agency contract for
improvements to Junction 14 of the M1
motorway near Milton Keynes. Construction
also started on the contract to design and
build a new bridge under the QE2 bridge on
the M25 to link Dartford, Kent with Prologis
Developments’ Crossways Business Park. 
Our Project Services team also manages 
our land-led and PFI investment portfolios. 
We invested £12.4m in these during the year.
Following the sale of our 10% equity interests
in the Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Exeter Courts
and Conwy Schools PFIs in 2006, our PFI
portfolio now comprises six financially closed
concessions, representing an initial investment
of £22.2m, all of which are operational. 
The Arden Partnership, our 50:50 joint venture
with Costain, reached financial close on the
£30m Lincolnshire project, the first of three
phases of the £76.5m Three Shires batched
mental health PFI scheme on 3 May 2007. 
The remaining two projects in the scheme are
due to reach financial close in the summer of
2007. We are committed to investing a further
£3.8m in our PFI portfolio before the end 
of 2008 and will continue to invest selectively
in new PFI schemes that match our capabilities
and dispose of existing PFI investments, if and
when appropriate opportunities arise.
Project Services entered 2007 with a strong
order book and over 82% of its target
revenues for the year secured. We have 
also won a further £100m of new business
since the start of 2007, including contracts 
to design and build a new leisure centre 
at Ashfield and to construct a new dual
carriageway at the A421/A6 junction and
associated infrastructure works at St Neots,
Cambridgeshire. In addition, it has been 
confirmed that our ECI scheme covering 
the widening of junctions 29-32 of the M4 
can move into construction phase following
two years of scheme evaluation and design. 
As previously announced, this contract is 
worth over £65m to Alfred McAlpine.
The strength of our order book and the
continuing positive conditions in construction
markets give us confidence that this business 
is well placed to deliver another good
performance in 2007.
Infrastructure Services
Following the sale of Alfred McAlpine’s interest
in Core Utility Solutions Limited in October
2005, the comparative underlying profit before
tax numbers for 2005 for Infrastructure Services
in the following section exclude the £1.1m
profit contribution delivered by that joint
venture business in 2005. This provides greater
visibility of comparable underlying performance. 
Infrastructure Services delivered an encouraging
improvement in comparable profit year-on-
year as the benefits of the restructuring of the
business and increase in regulated investment
spend in the electricity and water sectors started
to have a positive impact on our results.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 
32% to £4.1m (2005: £3.1m) from revenues 
of £315.2m (2005 restated: £364.1m).
Our Infrastructure Services business is focused
on providing maintenance and renewal services
to the utilities and highways maintenance
sectors, where clients continue to seek to
reduce costs and improve delivery through
outsourcing.
Following the restructuring in 2005, the
business now operates through three units
(Gas and Water; Electricity and Telecoms; 
and Government Services), from five
previously. The targeted exits, highlighted 
in 2005, from the stand-alone Streetlighting 
and Rail Telecoms businesses and one non-
performing contract were finalised in the year, 
resulting in additional one-off costs of £4.3m 
(cash cost £2.7m). As a consequence of these
actions and following significant investment 
in systems and processes, the underlying
performance of the ongoing business is now
considerably improved. 
During the year, the utilities business secured 
a series of new business wins, particularly 
in the electricity and water sectors as approved
regulatory spend increased. These wins include
the renewal and extension of existing long-
term contracts with E.ON Central Networks,
Scottish Power and Scottish Water Solutions
and a contract to deliver the protection and
diversion of electricity, water, gas and telecoms
services required ahead of the construction 
of the Edinburgh tram network. Our highways
maintenance business again delivered another
good performance. Overall, Infrastructure
Services won in excess of £280m of new
business in 2006.
Infrastructure Services entered 2007 with 
a strong order book and over 83% of its
targeted revenues for the year secured. It has
secured £265m of new work so far in 2007.
This includes an additional four-year contract
worth at least £40m with EDF Energy Networks
for the installation and upgrade of high voltage
underground cabling as part of the capital
programme supporting its electricity network
in East of England, building on the £40m 
sub-station design and build contract with EDF
Energy Networks announced in January 2007.
In addition, we have now secured a new six
year £160m contract covering the replacement
of Victorian mains across south west London
for Thames Water. Finally, we have secured 
a two year extension, worth £25m, to our
existing highways maintenance contract 
with Suffolk County Council. This contract 
will now run until March 2009.
The strong momentum in this business gives
us confidence that it will maintain the positive
progress in 2007.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
£280m
of new business won by
Infrastructure Services in 2006. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200611
132kv
voltage engineering services.
1 0,800kms 
of overhead lines. 
When electricity supplies to 
homes and workplaces are
interrupted due to bad weather,
Alfred McAlpine works to carry
out emergency repair work 
and re-instate supplies for
customers of E.ON Central
Networks. Under an £80m
contract, Alfred McAlpine 
provides key support services 
to E.ON Central Networks.
£80m
total contract value.
6counties
with over 4.7m customers.
Alfred McAlpine provides a complete solution –
from the connection of low voltage electrical
services, design and project management
through to delivering engineering services at
high voltage. The service encompasses all types
of works at voltages up to 132,000 volts. 
The team works across the six counties –
Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Leicestershire,
Northamptonshire, Warwickshire and
Worcestershire – that comprise the southern 
part of the region covered by Central Networks,
the electricity distribution business of E.ON. 
Over the past year we have installed 150kms 
of medium and high voltage cable, refurbished
or installed 420kms of overhead lines and nearly
200 sub-stations. In addition, the team
constantly patrols 10,800kms of overhead lines
and provides twenty-four hour reactive support
to client network problems and the maintenance 
of 1,200 sub-stations across the region.
The team has been working with Central
Networks for four years and the contract 
was renewed in 2006 for a further four years, 
with the potential to extend the work for
another five years after that. This is the only
outsourced contract of its kind in the industry.
Central Networks awarded Alfred McAlpine 
an all encompassing contract. Instead of the
contract being broken into packages of work
such as cable laying or being tendered as
individual projects, the contract covers the full
spectrum of operational delivery. This means 
that Alfred McAlpine is responsible for asset
inspections (sub-stations, telegraph poles etc),
maintenance and replacement as well as
managing new connections for the 4,769,190
customers – everything to do with medium 
and high voltage power supply across the 
six counties. 
One reason for the Alfred McAlpine team’ s
success to date has been having the right
operational structure which includes new offices
in Nuneaton, placing the team at the heart of
the Central Networks region. Alfred McAlpine
has adopted a proactive approach with the
customer on all reporting aspects and
development of common reporting procedures.
This means that the team works much more
closely with the customer; helping improve
safety, quality, delivery and service levels.
This vital work, ensuring the supply of electricity
to thousands of homes and businesses, goes
largely unseen and unnoticed by the domestic
and business users who rely upon their supply.
Alfred McAlpine ensures that E.ON gives its
customers the best possible service. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 12
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
2004 
£m and prior 2005 2006 T otal
Underlying PBT n/a 37.4 43.0* n/a
Sales fraud (6.1) (7.7) (9.1) (22.9)
Other current asset impairment (7.0) (3.7) (6.9) (17.6)
Restated: Underlying PBT n/a 26.0 27.0 n/a
Non-recurring costs
Fixed asset impairment and write-offs (6.1) (1.6) (1.8) (9.5)
Professional fees and other costs 0.00.0 (6.0) (6.0)
Slate impact (19.2) (13.0) (23.8) (56.0)
Tax 5.03.7 6.9 15.6
Net Slate impact (14.2) (9.3) (16.9) (40.4)
*2006 Underlying PBT as per the Group’s management accounts.
Slate
The impact of the accounting irregularities 
in the slate business on the Group’s Income
Statement for the year to 31 December 2006
and on its Balance Sheet as at 31 December
2006 is summarised in the table and was 
as follows:
(i) a reduction in reported Group revenue and
pre-tax profit in relation to the sales fraud 
in the years up to and including 2006 
of £22.9m, of which £5.4m represents
deferred income which will be recognised 
in 2007 – in line with the guidance given 
in the statement on 26 February 2007.
(ii) a reduction of £17.6m in the current assets
of the Group, as reflected in the Group
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006, 
in respect of the write down/impairment 
of the value of stock and work in progress
in the slate business.
(iii) a reduction of £9.5m in the fixed assets 
of the Group, as reflected in the Group
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006,
principally in respect of the overstatement
of quarry development costs in the 
slate business.
(iv) a one-off cost of £6.0m reflecting the 
costs of the independent investigation and
the costs of completing the arrangement
of new banking facilities with the 
Group’s bankers.
The cash impact on the Group of the accounting
irregularities and the non-recurring costs referred
to above is expected to be £30m in 2007. 
Having taken advice from an independent
expert geologist, the Board is satisfied that 
the value of the mineral reserves at Slate
remains prudent and appropriate. In addition,
independent review has confirmed that the
value of the investment in the new sawn 
plant at Slate remains appropriate.
The investigation concluded that personal 
gain was not the underlying motivation for 
the fraud. Ashurst have advised the Board that
there is little prospect of any material financial
recovery being obtained through civil
proceedings against those who instigated 
the fraud. The Board has asked North Wales
police to investigate the matter and take such
further action as they deem appropriate. 
The Group will co-operate fully with North
Wales police as required.
In addition to the investigation, the Board has
undertaken a number of actions to return Slate
to profitability. These include:
• the appointment of a new senior
management team led by Alan Smith,
formerly a senior director with Aggregate
Industries
• the establishment and implementation 
of a comprehensive recovery plan
• the immediate moth-balling of operations 
at the Cwt Y Bugail quarry
• the moth-balling of Slate’s architectural
business at Ffestiniog quarry
• the extensive restructuring of the business’
cost base, resulting in a headcount reduction
of 166.
Going forward, the Slate recovery plan 
reflects reduced revenues and a reduced 
cost structure. After the fulfilment of pre-paid
deeply discounted orders accepted by the
former management team in late 2006, 
it is expected that the business will make an 
operating loss in 2007 of around £5m from
targeted sales of £21m. With the fulfilment 
of these orders, the business is projected 
to return to at least break even in 2008.
Thereafter, the business will be working
towards operating margins of 15% on 
annual revenues of approximately £30m.  ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200613
Group financial results
Group revenues in the year rose to £1,123m
(restated 2005: £1,072m), an increase of 5%.
Group underlying profit was £27.0m 
(restated 2005: £26.0m), reflecting a PBT
margin of 2.4% in line with 2005. Reported
profit before tax was £18.7m (restated 
2005: £24.7m).
Underlying earnings per share were 22.8p
(restated 2005: 23.7p per share). Dividend
cover is 1.5x (restated 2005: 1.7x) based 
on underlying profit after tax and calculated
using the interim dividend for 2006 paid 
and the proposed final dividend for 2006.
Basic earnings per share were 16.8p. Diluted
earnings per share were 16.3p. These figures
are stated after a number of non-recurring
items including a net settlement gain of 
£3.8m generated by the reduction in liabilities
resulting from our pension liability management
programme, £7.8m of impairment and cost
provisions in respect of the slate business and
£4.3m (cash cost £2.7m) of additional non-
recurring costs relating to the completion 
of the previously announced exit from the
stand-alone Streetlighting and Rail Telecoms
businesses and discontinued contracts in our
Infrastructure Services business.
Free cash flow improved by £9.4m after
funding organic growth in our core business
and the investment of £10m in new systems
to support our people and our future growth
as described in the section on Sustainable
Business below. 
Average net borrowings through the year
were £54m (2005: £34m).
After the one-off costs of £5.5m, including
payments made under the pension liability
management programme amounting to
£2.8m, our year end net cash position was
£29.0m (2005: £32.8m). The bank interest
charge for the year was £3.4m, up from
£2.0m in the prior year, reflecting the higher
average borrowings through the year.
At 31 December 2006, the Group had a series
of committed bi-lateral facilities totalling £135m.
In March 2007, we successfully completed the
process of refinancing these facilities, which
commenced in January 2007 in the lead 
up to the Enviros acquisition. We now have
£180m of committed funds available to us
through a syndicated revolving credit facility.
This syndicated revolving credit facility will
mature in February 2011. In aggregate 
this facility is available to support general
corporate purposes.
We continue to review our Corporate Centre
costs to ensure that these remain appropriate. 
In 2006, centre costs, excluding the non-
recurring costs associated with our pension
liability management programme, amounted
to £7.2m (2005: £6.1m).
Shareholders’ funds total £263.2m (2005
restated: £259.2m).
During the year, our original investments 
in PFI joint ventures increased by £3.5m 
to £22.2m following our investment in the 
A1 (Darrington to Dishforth) and the sale 
of our 10% equity interests in the Enterprise 
PFIs (Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Exeter Courts
and Conwy Schools).
As at 31 December 2006, there was an IAS19
deficit on our four defined benefit pension
schemes totalling £29.6m, net of tax credit
(2005: £33.8m). Of this, the deficit in the
main Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan was
£25.2m net of tax credit (2005: £25.8m).
The Company and the Trustee of the Alfred
McAlpine Pension Plan recently agreed the
valuation of the Plan as at 31 December 2005,
and, as required by the Pensions Act 2004,
concluded a funding recovery plan to meet the
Plan’s Statutory Funding Objective. This recovery
plan is designed to remove the deficit in funding
revealed by the valuation as at 31 December
2005 by 31 December 2015. The recovery
plan is effective from 1 January 2006 and
under it the Company will make the following
cash contributions to the Plan:
2006: £6.6m (of which £4m was
contributed during 2006)
2007: £6.6m
2008: £8.5m
2009: £9.2m, plus the increase 
in RPI over 2008
2010-15: Prior year contribution plus the
increase in RPI over the preceding
12 months
The £1.0m reduction in the gross deficit 
as at 31 December 2006 reflects the £6.9m
reduction in liabilities secured by our liability
management programme and increases in 
the discount rate used to calculate the defined
benefit obligation as a result of increases 
to corporate bond yields over the year. 
This was countered by the strengthening of
the mortality assumption applied for IAS 19
purposes. This assumption is now based on
PA92 medium cohort projections, and is the
same as the assumption applied by the Plan
actuary in completing his most recent formal
actuarial valuation of the Plan for the Plan
Trustee as at 31 December 2005. Whilst some
scaling has been applied for current pensioners
to reflect actual experience in the Plan, 
no scaling has been applied for members 
pre-retirement. This change in the mortality
assumption increased the obligation by 
over 10%, as we anticipated in 2005. In
combination, these changes ensure that 
the assumptions remain in line with current
market best estimates. Further disclosures 
of the assumptions used (including mortality
assumptions) are provided in note 20 of the
consolidated financial statements. 
Our tax charge continues to benefit from
prudent planning and brought forward losses.
Our effective underlying tax rate was 17%
during 2006 (2005: 15%). We expect that we
will return to a normalised 28% rate by 2009.
Sustainable business
We are committed to ensuring that we and
our supply partners operate to the highest
safety standards. It is pleasing therefore to 
be able to report a step-change improvement
in the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’), GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 14
which now stands at a sector-leading 0.14
(2005: 0.24). This equates to 1.4 accidents 
for every million hours worked. We will 
continue to seek ongoing improvements 
in our safety performance to achieve our
objective of an AFR of 0.10 or less by 2010.
To deliver the excellent customer service, which
is fundamental to our offering, we need to
attract, develop and retain the best people. 
To this end, we aim to be an employer of
choice. We measure our performance in this
area through our annual employee survey,
which is conducted by MORI on our behalf.
Further details of the survey and results 
can be found in the People section of this
Business Review.
To support our people and our future growth,
we continue to invest in new systems. 2006
was a year of significant achievement, as 
we successfully completed a series of major
systems change programmes. These are 
aimed at ensuring that we capture and 
share the knowledge that exists across 
our business, which is vital to our ongoing
competitive success. 
We completed the implementation of our
Group-wide HR and payroll system, which 
will enhance operational efficiency and 
allow us to deliver a high quality service 
to our employees. The higher degree of IT
sophistication has allowed us to implement
operational processes which generated
immediate and ongoing benefits for both 
the Company and employees; in particular, 
it has reduced payroll processing costs in
Infrastructure Services and Project Services 
by more than 50%.
This project also necessitated an upgrade 
to the Causeway financial management
system to provide the interfaces required 
to allow the automated transfer of data to 
and from the HR and payroll system. As part
of this planned upgrade, we also introduced 
a major enhancement of system reporting 
capabilities and, as a result, were able to meet
the requirements of the new Construction
The five values are:
Alfred McAlpine values
winners – people who want to create success
for themselves, their company, and their
customers; people with real commitment.
Superior performance is born
out of passion. Alfred McAlpine values people
who are passionate about their work and about
doing the very best job for their customers.
Alfred McAlpine demands
honesty – honesty in dealing with each other
and honesty in dealing with all external
stakeholders.
The Company values people
who work openly and productively with each
other, clients and partners – people who listen,
people who explore new ideas and create 
new value.
The Company values job
satisfaction. People who enjoy what they 
do put more in – and get more out.
Employee survey
To gauge the extent to which we are meeting
the needs of employees and driving the
behaviour linked to the Company values, 
we work with MORI, the international market
and employee research organisation, using 
its employee advocacy model to survey 
our employees. We ask every employee 
to complete a questionnaire and, in 2006, 
we received a 65% response rate. We have
surveyed employees for three years and 
a consistent improvement has been apparent
year-on-year. The survey helps us to measure
how far we are along the ‘path to advocacy’;
we want our people to be so proud of working
for Alfred McAlpine that they recommend 
us to their customers, business partners and
friends as an employer and service provider.
The path starts with awareness and
understanding for both business and individual
objectives, moves through satisfaction,
commitment, pride, engagement and, 
finally, to advocacy.
Enjoyment
Collaboration
Honesty
Passion
Winning
Industry Scheme (CIS) which was introduced
by HMRC in April 2007.
In addition, in our facilities management
business, we introduced a new management
structure and implemented a new Oracle ERP
management platform to replace the existing
legacy systems. The successful implementation
of Oracle provides us with a scalable Tier 1
solution to support the planned growth of 
this business over many years to come and
there is now the opportunity to exploit the
functionality to extract further value from 
this investment.
People
Our employee strategy remains focused 
on supporting delivery and customer service,
through a motivated and engaged workforce.
The key differentiator in the service we provide
to our customers is the quality and motivation
of our employees. This is visibly demonstrated
through their performance: through productivity ,
quality , safety and customer service.
T o achieve a motivated and engaged workforce,
we support our employees through excellent
leadership, skilled management, investment in
development and training, involvement through
inclusive consultation and innovative internal
communications as well as a reward package
that motivates and supports them.
In addition, we utilise our HR, time
management, routing and knowledge
management systems to ensure that we
provide our customers with the right person,
with the right skills and motivation, at the 
right location, at the right time, with all the
knowledge of the Company at their disposal.
Culture and values
We believe that a positive culture is essential 
to high-quality customer service. Our values 
of winning, passion, honesty, collaboration 
and enjoyment have to be reflected in all our
practices and procedures. Our reputation has
been built on our people and we believe that
employees whose behaviours reflect our values
deliver excellent customer service.
Over 
65%
of our employees completed 
our annual employee survey. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200615
At £50m per year when fully operational, and
over a duration of 15 years, Alfred McAlpine’ s
contract with Mapeley to provide management
services across HMRC’ s entire property portfolio 
is the largest contract in the Group.
Alfred McAlpine has responsibility for over 700
UK properties occupied by HMRC and 3,500
people working on the contract. Under the
Strategic Transfer of the Estate to the Private
Sector (STEPS) programme, property specialists
Mapeley acquired HMRC’s estate – a vast array
of properties with a huge variety of styles and
uses – from dog kennels to data processing
sites, Grade I listed buildings, modern office
units of over 40,000m
2
, car parks and
detention cells. As well as office administration
across the UK, Alfred McAlpine is also responsible
for managing property maintenance at HMRC’s
tax offices.
Alfred McAlpine’ s experience and understanding
of the customer’ s values has contributed to 
the provision of a high quality service irrespective
of the location and size of the property. We
perform around 7,000 reactive tasks and 10,500
planned maintenance jobs every month. The key
services are as wide and varied as the buildings
themselves and include: mechanical and
electrical works, building fabric works, cleaning,
security, grounds maintenance and the control
and management of catering and childcare 
sub-contractors at around 15 sites.
The team operates alongside Mapeley personnel
from a dedicated office in Milton Keynes. A 24-
hour help desk controls and organises service
across all sites, manages reactive calls and
coordinates planned preventative maintenance
tasks. On average the team deals with 8,500
calls a month, but this can be as high as 10,000.
Performance management is undertaken by a
bespoke software system specifically tailored to
Mapeley’ s needs. It is vital that the services are
provided 24-hours a day, 365 days a year, and
performance measurements and financial penalties
are imposed for failing to meet objectives.
T ony Hampson, Operations Director overseeing
the Mapeley contract for Alfred McAlpine, said,
“Winning a contract of this length and
complexity is testament to Alfred McAlpine’ s
reputation for service, innovation and continuous
improvement. It confirms and reinforces Alfred
McAlpine’ s position as one of the UK’ s leading
providers of support services to both the public
and private sector.”
3 , 500
people working in over 700
occupied sites.
8,500
average help desk calls a month.
HM Revenue and Customs’ (HMRC)
operations encompass a diverse
property portfolio ranging from 
local tax offices to detention centres.
When HMRC decided to focus 
on its core activity and transfer 
the management of its estate to
Mapeley, Alfred McAlpine was
their partner of choice to provide
total facilities management.
£50 m  
annual contract value, 
over 15 years.
1 0,500
planned maintenance tasks 
a month. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 16
Our target in these key areas is to be in 
MORI’s Top 10 score for private sector UK
organisations. In 2006, we achieved this for
both satisfaction working for the Company
and commitment. When asked to rate
‘satisfaction at achieving something worthwhile
at work’, the score (79%) is the highest that
MORI has recorded.
Employee profile
In 2006, we successfully implemented 
a Group-wide HR system which allows us 
to capture and monitor information on our
employees. Not only does this increase the
efficiency of our administrative procedures, 
but we will be able to use the information
extracted to monitor the success of our
employee strategies. 
We employ 8,700 people, the majority based
in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
% 20 40 60 80 100
*Source: MORI
Awareness
Satisfaction
Commitment
Pride
Engagement
Advocacy
employer
Advocacy
services
2006       
2005       
2004
Employee survey results
*
(%)
Achieving an engaged workforce
Leadership
Motivated employees require great leaders 
and we have continued to focus on facilitating
and nurturing leadership. We have established
talent management programmes covering the
majority of our management team and these
provide both awareness of those who will
benefit from accelerated development and, 
more importantly, focus the development needs
of participants. Our 360 degree feedback
process, our performance management and
our employee survey all give us insight into the
behaviour of our leaders. Our employee survey
demonstrates that the improvements are visible
to our employees.
Training and development
We run a series of training and development
programmes operating across the core
businesses which ensure that we obtain
maximum value from our employees by
helping them reach their full potential.
When asked through the MORI survey whether
employees felt they had a clear career path,
MORI recorded the highest score that they
have recorded for any company.
Employee forums and consultation
We consult employees and listen to their
feedback through the annual employee survey
and a regular employee forum in each
Business Stream. We also publish a range 
of internal magazines and newsletters across 
the Group and use web-based knowledge
management systems. We also hold regular
team briefings and toolbox talks.
Reward and support
We pay competitive salaries, offer incentive pay
for performance and provide market competitive
and supportive benefits to our employees.
We have been refreshing our benefits package
to ensure that our benefits position us as an
attractive employer to the whole of the UK’s
diverse workforce.
In 2006, we introduced an employee assistance
programme for employees and their families,
offering confidential help and counselling
covering any of the life challenges that 
may arise.
We have also introduced a corporate discounts
scheme to enable our employees to save money
on what they spend and launched a Buy As You
Earn share scheme to foster share ownership
amongst our employees by enabling them 
to buy shares in a tax-efficient way. This has
already been taken up by approximately 
10% of our employees.
Finally, we have introduced childcare vouchers 
and combined this with a national emergency
childcare and elderly care programme to
enable employees to both save money 
and deal with situations where their normal
care arrangements break down.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
Alfred McAlpine 
development 
programmes
Alfred McAlpine 
skills training
Management skills
Customer management skills
Interpersonal skills
Technical skills
Management programmes
Leadership programmes
Graduate programmes
First line manager programmes
Apprentice programmes
TALENT 
MANAGEMENT
Our training and development programmes help our employees reach their 
full potential ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200617
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board considers risk assessment,
identification of mitigating actions and internal
control to be fundamental to the achievement
of Alfred McAlpine’s strategic objectives. The
report on Corporate Governance on pages 24 
to 29 describes the systems and processes
through which the Board identifies, manages
and mitigates risks. Summarised below are 
the principal risks and uncertainties which the
Board considers face the Group and which
could impact on the Group’s ability to deliver
its strategic objectives. The nature and scope
of these principal risks and uncertainties can
change and so the Board regularly reviews
these, as well as the systems and processes 
for managing and mitigating them:
• the successful and timely execution of 
major contracts, including the robust 
control of the bid/tender process (to address
commercial risks, including pricing and
contract specification) and regular reviews
through the contract delivery stage to
completion to minimise the risk of financial
loss and associated reputational damage
• attracting, retaining and motivating the high
quality people on whom the Group’s future
success depends by becoming an employer 
of choice through maintaining the highest
levels of employee satisfaction, motivation
and commitment 
• the provision of excellent customer service 
to maintain the long-term client relationships
that we target which are essential to 
the maintenance of visible, long-term
earnings streams 
• the management of health and safety 
risks through an embedded core business
programme which demands an absolute
focus on providing the safest possible
working environments for our employees,
suppliers and the public
• nurturing a winning culture, on which 
service excellence depends
• maintaining a balanced business without 
over exposure to one sector, client 
or service 
• the winning of new business to deliver the
growth that we are targeting, which requires
us to continuously improve and extend our
offering and to deliver tailored solutions
which meet clients’ specific requirements
• successful implementation and management
of major systems and, particularly with
regard to contract mobilisation, change
management projects
• the management of environmental risk
through the maintenance of an effective
corporate responsibility programme
• the pro-active management of the risks
associated with the Group’s defined benefit
pension schemes.
Fuller details of the programmes and initiatives
that have been implemented to manage 
and mitigate these risks are included in 
this Business Review and the report on
Corporate Governance.
Outlook
We entered 2007 with a record order 
book and having delivered a step-change
improvement in our AFR and made further
good progress in our employee advocacy
programmes in 2006.
Our priorities for 2007 will be to continue 
to grow our core businesses to deliver the
strong profit and earnings growth that 
we are targeting and to return our slate
business to profitability. We will do this
through the continued execution of our
established strategy.
I M Grice
Group Chief Executive
11 May 2007
