 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 04
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
We entered 2007
with a record
£3.9bn order book,
having secured in 
excess of £1.5bn 
of new business
during 2006.
Our positive view of our trading performance
in 2006, which we indicated in our trading
update on 9 January 2007, was overshadowed
by the discovery in late February 2007 of 
a systematic and extensive fraud by senior
managers within our slate business dating
back a number of years.
Each of our three core businesses delivered 
a strong performance in 2006, with good
growth in comparable underlying profit before
tax year-on-year. Business Services delivered
another strong year with significant revenue
and profit growth. Project Services also
performed well. The improvement made 
in the underlying performance of our
Infrastructure Services business was particularly
encouraging as the benefits of our
restructuring actions started to come through.
We ended the year with a record £3.9bn
order book, having secured in excess of
£1.5bn of new business across all our markets,
including our largest contract to date with
Mapeley, during 2006.
Slate 
On 26 February 2007, we announced that 
an investigation by our internal audit team had
uncovered a systematic misrepresentation 
of production volumes and sales for a number
of years by a number of senior managers 
at Slate. The Board immediately suspended
two senior managers at Slate and instigated
an independent forensic investigation into
these accounting irregularities, under the
terms of which Ashurst and Deloitte reported
their findings to the Audit Committee. 
The investigation confirmed that the controls
in the slate business had been systematically
circumvented over a number of years to
overstate results. The behaviour and collusion
of the managers responsible was entirely
deliberate and involved fraud. The Managing
Director and Operations Director of Slate have
been dismissed. The other members of the 
former senior management team of Slate had 
already left the business. The financial impact 
of the fraud resulted in a £22.9m reduction 
in sales and pre-tax profits in the years up 
to and including 2006 and asset impairment,
professional fees and other costs of £17.5m
net of total tax.
Ashurst and Deloitte believe that, whatever
financial controls had been in place, given the
extensive collusion of senior managers in the
slate business, steps would have been taken 
to attempt to circumvent these. Controls have,
however, been reviewed and, in accordance
with the recommendations made by Deloitte,
further strengthened where possible.
The Board is deeply concerned by the
discovery of this fraud, but is confident that
decisive action has been taken to address this.
Our immediate priority is to return this
business to profitability.
Group financial controls 
In the light of the uncovering of fraud 
within the slate business, the remit of the
Deloitte investigation also included a wider
review of relevant key financial control
procedures in our core businesses. This review
has been completed and confirmed the
robustness and appropriateness of our 
existing control procedures. No material 
issues were identified.
Our three core businesses
delivered a strong
performance in 2006, with
good growth in comparable
underlying profit before tax
year-on-year. Group financial results
Group underlying profit rose by 4% to
£27.0m (restated 2005: £26.0m), reflecting 
a profit before tax (‘PBT’) margin of 2.4% 
in line with 2005. Reported profit before tax
was £18.7m (restated 2005: £24.7m). Group
revenues in the year rose to £1,123m (restated
2005: £1,072m), an increase of 5%.
Underlying earnings per share were 22.8p
(restated 2005: 23.7p per share).
Basic earnings per share were 16.8p. Diluted
earnings per share were 16.3p. These figures
are stated after non-recurring items.
After funding organic growth in our core
business, the investment of £10m in new
systems and one-off cash costs of £5.5m,
including payments made under our pension
liability management programme of £2.8m,
our year end net cash position was £29.0m
(2005: £32.8m).
Dividend 
In recognition of the continuing improvement
in the underlying trading performance of the
core businesses and confidence in the Group’s
future development, the Board recommends 
a final dividend of 8.65p per share, taking our
full year dividend up 10% to 14.65p per share
(2005: 13.3p per share). Subject to shareholder
approval at the Annual General Meeting on
26 June 2007, the final dividend will be paid
on 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register
on 15 June 2007.
Board
We were delighted to welcome Dr Roger
Urwin, as Non-executive Director, to the 
Board in September 2006. Roger was Group
Chief Executive of National Grid plc until 
he retired at the end of 2006 and will bring 
a wealth of experience to the Board. He will
become Chairman at the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting on 26 June, when 
I am due to retire from the Board. I look forward
to handing over to Roger then.
Dominic Lavelle decided to stand down 
from the Board as Group Finance Director 
on 23 April 2007. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to record our gratitude to Dominic
for his significant contribution to the Company
over the last three years. At the time of writing
my statement, the search for a replacement
has commenced and until a successor is 
found, Mark Greenwood, Finance Director 
of Project Services, is acting as interim 
Group Finance Director. 
Acquisitions
On 1 February 2007, we acquired Enviros
Group Limited (‘Enviros’), a leading
environmental consultancy, for £30m in 
cash (£27m) and shares (£3m). Enviros works 
across industry sectors, in both the public 
and private sector, and has a broad range 
of clients including DEFRA, the Carbon Trust,
BP , Corus and the MOD. The acquisition
allows us to continue our strategy of moving
up the services ‘value chain’ and gives us
access to another high growth market. 
Strategy and outlook
Alfred McAlpine today is a leading support
services group focused on providing clients
with integrated solutions for all their built
environment needs.
Alfred McAlpine’s core businesses are strong,
well managed and are well placed to benefit
from the growth opportunities offered by 
their markets. We aim to maximise these
opportunities by continuing to focus on
investment in our core businesses.
We entered 2007 with a record £3.9bn order
book and over 80% of our target revenues 
for the year already secured. Maintaining this
momentum, we have won in excess of £400m
of new business since the start of 2007.
Against this background, the Board remains
confident in the Group’s growth prospects.
G O Whitehead 
Chairman
11 May 2007
£3.9bn
£1 .5bn
New business won in the year.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200605
Record order book.
