 VPhase plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
05
Chief Executive’s Review
I am delighted to report that the Group has successfully delivered 
its key objective of positioning its first product VX1 to be ready for 
the next stage of commercialisation in 2009 and to place VX1 in 
an Ofgem Demonstration Action programme. This programme 
has been fully funded by SSE to a value of up to £240,000, and it 
is anticipated that these trials of VX1 will demonstrate significant 
carbon dioxide savings when used in UK domestic properties. 
Additionally, the Group is starting a programme of commercial 
partnerships to introduce VPhase initially to European and then to 
other geographic markets. We have already entered into a 
memorandum of understanding with British Gas to consider 
routes to market for VPhase products in the UK and also into 
North America through Direct Energy, one of America’s leading 
integrated energy companies and another Centrica-owned 
business. We have also initiated dialogue with consumer unit 
manufacturers, social housing organisations and energy  
efficiency companies.
Furthermore, we have examined both technically and commercially 
the potential to expand the VPhase technology platform to 
additional products and markets. Whilst we are focussed on 
delivering the VX1 product, we believe that further products can 
be readily produced for delivery into a wider range of geographical 
markets such as North America and dedicated to high-end 
energy saving applications.
We have filed another patent on the basis of development work 
carried out that expands the potential footprint, and the protection, 
for our Smart Voltage Management technology.
The Group has made excellent progress in 2008, having 
established an experienced in-house team and working with a 
specialist provider for design for manufacture and initial volume 
manufacturing services, culminating in the trade launch of the 
Group’s first product VX1.
The VX1 product was previewed at a trade launch at the Interbuild 
Exhibition held in October 2008. Interest in the product and the 
principles of Smart Voltage Management was strong from a 
broad section of the building and property industry, and the 
Group is currently recruiting additional sales resource to respond 
to this demand.
Our progress in 2008  
has been substantial  
and provides the 
soundest of foundations 
for commercial success  
in 2009.
We are excited about  
the relationships we have 
built with SSE and British 
Gas and are extremely 
confident about the 
future of VPhase.
VPhase announces Ofgem approval for trialing 
of the VPhase VX1 product under the UK 
Government’s Carbon Emissions Reduction 
Target (CERT) scheme in partnership with 
Scottish and Southern Energy.
“We are looking forward to confirming the 
energy and carbon saving capability of the 
VPhase VX1 device and subsequently making 
the product available to SSE customers.” 
Paul Wilkins, Energy Efficiency Team Leader for SSE 
VPhase plc signs a memorandum of 
understanding with British Gas to distribute  
the VPhase energy saving product – subject to 
successful trials. 
“This MoU is another step in British Gas  
putting in place a range of low carbon energy 
technologies and products for our residential, 
business and public sector customers. These 
technologies will become increasingly 
important as UK consumers seek to become 
more energy efficient.” 
Gearoid Lane, Managing Director of British Gas New Energy, leading the 
product trials on behalf of British Gas Services
12065 Vphase FRONT.indd   5 17/4/09   19:38:53 VPhase plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
06
We achieved or exceeded 
our goals in 2008 and I 
look forward to repeating 
this success in 2009.
I would like to thank our 
dedicated team who have 
enabled us to achieve so 
much in such a short 
period of time.
2008 Business update
Objectives 2008 Progress  Objectives 2009 
Establish supply chain  Post trial rollout, growing revenue 
and provide customer pull  and contribution
Product engineering. Product is currently being CE marked  Start volume manufacture. 
 and it is anticipated that this will be  
 completed in H1 of 2009. 
Test house installation and data logging. VPhase have had units running  UK market rollout. 
 continuously since March 2008 simulating  
 household usage. This has provided   
 significant data to underpin energy savings. 
Deliver pre-production units for Completed in Q1 2009. Expansion of routes to markets.  
partner evaluation.  
Initial market introduction working with  Relationships are in place with SSE and Develop overseas markets. 
selected partners. British Gas. We are exploring routes to  
 market for the UK, Europe and   
 North America. 
Scale up for volume production. Contract negotiations currently under way. Development of next generation products.
Exhibit at major show. The company exhibited at Interbuild in  
 2008 and Ecobuild in Q1 2009. 
In May 2008, the Group raised £3.5 million (gross) by way of a 
placing of 70 million ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each, 
comprising 10.1% of the enlarged issued share capital, at a price 
of 5 pence per share. This share placing has enabled the Group 
to accelerate the time and access to routes to market, and to 
investigate other potential opportunities for Smart Voltage 
Management, such as further domestic and small commercial 
applications and other geographic regions.
The Group has teamed with the two biggest utility companies in 
the UK who jointly supply energy to around 40% of UK 
households. 
The Group continues to exercise strong cash management and 
ends the year with a substantially strengthened Balance Sheet 
and a well defined route forward to commercialisation, with a 
view to delivering growth and shareholder value.
Key priorities for 2009 include the CE marking of VX1; the 
expansion of our capacity to supply; capitalising on market 
opportunities to generate revenue; and the development of further 
products utilising our Smart Voltage Management technology.
Overall, we expect 2009 to be another year of progress and 
growth for VPhase plc and I look forward to updating you on our 
progress at the time of our interims.
Dr. L Juby
Chief Executive Officer
23 March 2009
Chief Executive’s Review continued
12065 Vphase FRONT.indd   6 20/4/09   15:27:46
