 VPhase plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
04
Formal launch of VX1 at 
Interbuild October 2008.
Agreement signed with 
SSE to fund a CERT 
Demonstration Action  
of up to £240,000.
Memorandum of 
understanding signed 
with British Gas.
I am delighted to report that our Group has continued to maintain 
the excellent progress made in the first six months of 2008. 
The formal launch of our VX1 product at Interbuild in October 
2008 was the culmination of a year where we completed the 
development of the product and undertook rigorous in-house 
testing with a unit having operated successfully on a continuous 
basis since March 2008. 
In parallel to our technical progress, the Group has made good 
commercial progress with a memorandum of understanding in 
place with British Gas (part of Centrica plc) and an agreement 
with SSE who is funding an Ofgem-approved Demonstration 
Action of VX1.
Despite the recent shock to the global economy caused by the 
banking crisis and the slow down in consumer demand, the need 
to reduce energy costs and environmental emissions, as well as 
access to reliable quality power, is as strong as ever. This global 
need continues to enhance the already favourable market 
conditions for the Group’s products. Governments across the 
world are looking to stimulate their economies with one of the key 
drivers being their policies and investment in clean and alternative 
energy products. Indeed, Barack Obama has just announced a 
plan to help create five million new jobs by strategically investing 
US$150 billion over the next ten years to act as a catalyst for 
private efforts to build a clean energy future. Furthermore, the 
demand for energy efficiency devices is gaining growing global 
support with governments in the UK, USA, and Europe.
In May 2008, the Group raised £3.31 million (net of costs) through 
the placing of 70 million new ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each 
at 5 pence per share and with our strong emphasis on tight cash 
control, we retain £3.20 million at the end of December 2008. 
I am pleased that the business is fully funded and has sufficient 
cash to carry the business through to commercialisation. 
The Group’s business processes are now in place to manage the 
commencement of commercial sales and this, along with the 
excellent team that we have recruited, leaves the business well 
placed for success.
We understand and have identified the various channels to market 
for VX1 and subsequent products are well understood. The 
Group will be targeting additional channels as 2009 progresses.
I believe that VPhase’s technology can play an important part in 
supporting CO
2
 reduction targets, helping home owners reduce 
their energy costs and, by reducing energy wastage, increasing 
the security of supply.
A C Hutchings
Executive Chairman
23 March 2009
Chairman’s Statement
VPhase VX1 with packaging and installation instructions.
12065 Vphase FRONT.indd   4 17/4/09   19:38:52
