 VPhase plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
02
At a glance
62% of total domestic 
electricity use across 
Europe could benefit 
from the use of VPhase
1
This is represented by the shaded purple sections.
1 VPhase - mapping the potential European market, November 2008 
 B2B International
Refridgerators 15%
Lighting 12%
Misc 12%
Consumer electronics 6%
Washing machines 4%
Central heating pump 4%
TV 3%
Dishwashers 2%
Driers
2%
Air-conditioners 1%
Ofﬁce equipment 1%
Residential electric
heating 22%
Electric storage water heater 9%
Electric hobs 5%
Electric ovens 2%
62%
Energy use across Europe 
We specialise in 
developing cost effective 
products to meet the 
growing global demand 
for alternative energy 
technologies.
VPhase
VPhase’s Smart Voltage Management device can significantly 
reduce a typical domestic or small commercial property’s 
electricity costs. In addition, the property owner benefits from 
lower carbon emissions and consistent voltage levels.
The voltage supplied to a home or business needs to vary to 
ensure that the distribution network operates effectively. Whilst 
the agreed statutory range across Europe is based on 230V +/- 
10% (207V to 253V), voltages tend to be supplied at the higher 
end of the range to ensure that the network does not drop below 
the minimum when heavy loads are switched in and out. In the 
UK voltage is typically around 245 volts. 
Household appliances are designed to operate satisfactorily 
across the range. Most appliances get no benefit from voltages 
above the minimum level and by managing their voltage down 
from typical levels they will use less energy. These include lighting, 
refrigeration, other white goods, appliances with motors, pumps 
and some entertainment products. The amount of energy saved 
depends on the specific device and the level of voltage reduction 
and can vary from a few percent to over 15%.
The VPhase VX1 product uses the Company’s technology to 
provide cost effective Smart Voltage Management. It works in 
conjunction with the consumer unit (fuse box) to selectively  
apply voltage reduction to the circuits most likely to deliver the 
greatest savings. For example, whilst the typical voltage level 
received by a UK house is 245V, the VX1 unit reduces it to a  
set level of typically 220V: a level that will optimise savings  
and performance.
The principles of voltage reduction to save energy were established 
many years ago and are applied in a range of commercial 
applications. For example, most major supermarkets already 
control voltage at the store and make significant savings on 
electricity bills as a result. However, the traditional methods of 
voltage control, requiring a site survey and a device that can 
manage the full load delivered to premises, mean that historically 
it hasn’t been cost effective to control voltages in domestic 
houses and small commercial properties.
VPhase has developed a technology, protected by intellectual 
property, that allows the voltage delivered to appliances to be 
maintained at VX1’s set point regardless of how high above this 
level the voltage rises. This avoids the need for a costly and time 
consuming site survey each time a unit is installed and, through 
design and application, a device has been developed that is cost 
effective in both domestic and small commercial installations.
12065 Vphase FRONT.indd   2 17/4/09   19:38:42 VPhase plc  
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
03
“We need to move from incremental steps forward on household 
energy efficiency to a comprehensive national plan – the Great British 
refurb. We know the scale of the challenge: wasted energy is costing 
families on average £300 a year, and more than a quarter of all our 
emissions are from our homes.”
Ed Miliband, Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, 2008 Be part of the Great British Refurb - to cut emissions and cut energy costs 
“The average household could save around £200 a year by taking 
energy efficiency measures. This is equivalent to a saving of around 2 
tonnes of CO
2
.”
Energy Saving Trust, ‘Don’t let your home get away with it’ - media facts
“In the UK, we spend £2.4 billion lighting our homes, and with lighting 
accounting for 10 – 15% of our electricity bills.”
Energy Saving Trust, http://www.energysavingtrust.org.uk/Resources/Useful-statistics, cited 27/10/2008
“One of the easiest ways to pay less on our energy bills is to reduce the 
amount of energy we use, either through investing in energy efficiency 
home improvements, or taking a few simple steps such as switching off 
the lights when we leave a room.”
Joan Ruddock MP, Minister for Climate Change, Department of Energy, Energy Saving Week Diary October 2008
“Carbon emissions from buildings account for 45% of total emissions, with 
housing making up 27%. So improvements in the energy efficiency of our 
homes will make a significant impact on our carbon reduction goals. ”
UK Energy Efficiency Action Plan 2007 DEFRA
“Electricity consumption by domestic lights and appliances has nearly 
doubled since 1970 and it is set to increase by 12% to 2010.”
Calor at Home, http://www.calor.co.uk/home/central-heating/energy-efficiency/energy-saving-facts.htm cited 21/10/2008
“The Energy Efficiency Action Plan aims to save 3.5 million tonnes of 
carbon per year by 2010 through energy efficiency measures in the 
residential sector in England.”
UK Energy Efficiency Action Plan 2007, DEFRA
12065 Vphase FRONT.indd   3 20/4/09   16:05:37
