 A JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT
DELIVERING ON GENEL 
ENERGY’S STRATEGY  
AND GROWING OIL 
PRODUCTION IN THE KRI 
The opening of the 
KRI‑T urkey oil 
export pipeline was 
a transformational 
moment.
Momentum in the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq oil industry provided the backdrop for 
a strong operational performance. 2014’s 
two overriding geopolitical factors – the 
emergence of ISIS and, later in the year, 
the fall in the oil price – did not distract 
us from our focus on core operations. 
This year we achieved a 58% growth in 
production, at the top end of our guidance 
range, resulting in a significant increase 
in revenue. This is a testament to the 
strength of the professional team we 
have in place and the quality of our 
KRI resources.
A year of delivery in the KRI 
In 2014, a focus on operations boosted 
working interest production to an average 
of 69,000 boepd, with gross production 
from Taq Taq and Tawke averaging 
194,000 bopd. In a year in which the 
Kurdistan Regional Government faced 
significant economic challenges this 
strong operational performance provided 
the oil that fed growing exports, which 
were sold with increasing regularity 
through the Turkish port of Ceyhan.
The opening of the KRI-Turkey oil export 
pipeline was a transformational moment. 
The ability to reach the export market, and 
in turn international pricing, provided a 
route to large-scale, cost effective 
monetisation of KRI oil. The first lifting of 
this oil took place in Ceyhan in May, 
increasing in regularity over the remainder 
of the year. Over 40 cargoes were lifted in 
2014, establishing a track record of 
predictable sales.
In total, 40% of Genel’s production was 
exported by the KRG through the 
KRI-Turkey pipeline system, with 9% 
exported via Turkey by truck and the 
remainder sold into the domestic market.
In 2014 focus in the KRI was on increasing 
production, and work will be undertaken in 
2015 to further grow this significantly. 
The successful installation and 
commissioning of well site temporary 
production facilities in December 2014 at 
Taq Taq helped set a new daily production 
record of 135,000 bopd and a new record 
for gross daily liftings of 147,000 bopd. 
Completion and commissioning of the 
second central processing facility is due  
by year-end 2015, and works to increase 
the processing capacity at the Tawke field 
are expected to complete in the early 
part of 2015.
This increasing production is not 
constrained by pipeline capacity issues. 
By the end of 2014 the Fishkhabour to 
Ceyhan 40” pipeline had capacity of 
700,000 bopd. Total exports by the KRG 
grew to over 400,000 bopd by the end 
of the year.
Developing the KRI oil industry 
We are proud of the integral role that 
Genel has played in the growth of the KRI 
oil industry. For over a decade we have 
worked with the KRG to develop this 
industry, working hand-in-hand for the 
region’s economic strength and stability. 
Our success is entwined with the strength 
of the KRI, and the KRG has repeatedly 
stated its clear intention to pay contractors 
their full PSC entitlements. The first 
payment for oil exports via the pipeline 
was received in December 2014.
16 Annual Report 2014 We expect our KRI operations to be 
significantly cash generative in coming 
years, despite the significant drop in the 
oil price. Our barrels can be developed 
and produced at some of the lowest 
costs in the industry today due to their 
onshore location and prolific reservoirs. 
This contributes to a low breakeven oil 
price, and Genel is well positioned to 
continue to grow even in a period of 
sustained low oil prices.
A transformational gas 
agreement
One of the most exciting developments 
was crystallising the potential of our KRI 
gas business through an agreement 
reached in November with the Ministry  
of Natural Resources of the KRG for the 
development of the Miran and Bina Bawi 
gas fields.
With 11 tcf of mean raw gas resources, 
these are world-class fields, and the 
agreement sets out a roadmap to develop 
them at low cost to provide domestic gas 
production to power continued industrial 
and economic growth in the KRI. It also 
assists the KRG in fulfilling the gas sales 
agreement signed between Turkey and  
the KRG in November 2013, which calls for 
4 bcma of gas exports from 2018, rising to 
10 bcma by 2020, and the potential for 
further increases in the next decade. 
Gas supplied from our Miran and Bina Bawi 
fields will significantly reduce Turkey’s gas 
import bill and help cement the already 
close ties between it and the KRI. With 
these fields, the KRI is poised to become  
a major producer, consumer and exporter 
of gas, which will create significant value 
for both the region and Genel.
The agreement provided a solution with 
clear benefits for both the KRG and Genel, 
and is in line with our key objectives:
• to maintain a meaningful exposure to 
the gas development while reducing  
our capital investment; and
• to generate attractive returns, including 
prior acquisition costs, for both fields 
and to unlock significant value for Genel.
Our negotiations with the KRG over the 
detailed PSC amendments regarding Miran 
and Bina Bawi have been going well in 
recent months. As a result, we expect the 
PSC amendments to be completed in the 
first half of 2015. 
The new structure will deliver a material 
reduction in our capital exposure: for both 
fields we anticipate that gross contractor 
capex to first gas will be $1 billion, 
generate attractive returns, and create 
significant value for Genel.
A focused exploration strategy 
Over the last few years, we have enjoyed 
considerable exploration success in the 
KRI with discoveries at Chia Surkh, Bina 
Bawi, Ber Bahr, Peshkabir and Tawke 
Deep. Unfortunately, in common with 
many of our peers, we have not enjoyed 
the same success in our frontier 
exploration programme offshore Africa. 
A well was drilled offshore Malta, and two 
offshore Angola, without success. 
In Morocco, the Juby Maritime well 
encountered a 110 metre gross oil column 
of heavy oil in the Upper Jurassic, and the 
SM-1 exploration well on our operated Sidi 
Moussa licence encountered oil in 
Our barrels can 
be developed and 
produced at some  
of the lowest costs  
in the industry today.
17 www.genelenergy.com
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER  
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
AND GOVERNANCE
STRATEGIC  
REPORT objective for Genel and we will continue to 
add new opportunities where appropriate.
A robust balance sheet 
Our portfolio has the benefit of significant 
flexibility, allowing us to target capital 
expenditure in key areas, driving growth in 
our core KRI operations. Cash balances at 
the end of 2014 stood at c.$490 million. 
We remain focused on maintaining a 
robust balance sheet and, with cash 
generative production, even at a low oil 
price, Genel has a very resilient business 
underpinning our future growth.
We are advantaged by having no capital-
intensive fixed long-term development 
projects in our portfolio. We will continue 
to focus spend in the Kurdistan Region, 
prioritising investment in our production 
assets which offer short paybacks and 
high returns on incremental expenditure.
Split broadly equally between the KRI and 
Africa, our capital expenditure in 2014 was 
c.$670 million. This will fall to $200-250 
million in 2015, a reduction of 70%. 
Importantly, this is without impacting near-
term production plans in the KRI. General 
and administrative cost reductions of 40% 
have been initiated to ensure staff levels 
are appropriate for our future level of 
planned activity.
A partner for the KRI 
Supporting and sustaining the regions in 
which we operate is fundamental to 
Genel’s success and our commitment to 
being a sustainable business. Having 
operated in the KRI since 2002, our 
operations have helped pave the way for 
the KRG to create an economically strong, 
A JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT CONTINUED
fractured and brecciated Upper Jurassic 
carbonates. We continue to evaluate the 
two wells and the implications for further 
activity in Morocco.
Following these drilling results, 
expenditure relating to exploration wells 
drilled in Angola, Malta and the Sidi 
Moussa and Juby Maritime licences in 
Morocco has been written off.
With a robust balance sheet being of key 
importance in a low oil price environment, 
we have reset our exploration strategy to 
reflect the current market conditions. We 
will now focus on less capital-intensive 
onshore exploration within our existing 
KRI and Africa portfolio. 
In 2016, we are planning to drill appraisal 
wells on both Peshkabir and Chia Surkh in 
the KRI. These wells will help refine the 
volumes for both discoveries and their 
potential developments. In Africa, we will 
concentrate on our Horn of Africa 
operations. Notwithstanding security 
difficulties over the past year, we continue 
to see significant potential in our 
Somaliland acreage. In addition, the 2D 
seismic acquired on the Adigala block in 
Ethiopia in 2014 supports the presence of 
a working hydrocarbon system and large 
structures which could hold material 
potential.
We are hopeful that work can resume on 
our highly prospective Somaliland 
acreage, and we will progress our 
Ethiopian prospects towards drilling, 
although capital discipline in the face of 
lower oil prices and the timing of existing 
work programmes means drilling activity is 
unlikely before 2016. Adding resource 
through exploration remains a key 
DECEMBER 2014
2P RESERVES
429 MMBOE  
POSSIBLE RESERVES 
230 MMBOE 
CONTINGENT RESOURCES
1,033 MMBOE
UNRISKED PROSPECTIVE RESOURCES 
3,137 MMBOE
Total net working interest reserves and unrisked resources increased over X% from XX bnboe to XX bnboe.
             +XX
mmboe
+ XX 
mmboe
   +X 
mmboe
 –X
mmboe
Our resource base today
Our portfolio has the 
benefit of significant 
flexibility, allowing 
us to target capital 
expenditure in  
key areas. 
18 Annual Report 2014 production, and the significant financial 
flexibility in the portfolio, leaves us well 
positioned to continue our growth even  
in a period of sustained low oil prices. 
We are proud that we will continue to  
play a key role in the next phase of the 
development of the KRI oil and gas sector 
– to the benefit of the people of the region 
and to Genel.
T ony Hayward 
Chief executive officer 
Mehmet Sepil
President
potentially self-sufficient Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq. This starts with the significant 
contribution we have made to the 
development of an indigenous oil and  
gas industry and extends to the extensive 
community investment programmes we 
have undertaken, which are making a real 
difference at a local level. We invite you  
to explore this in more detail in our 
sustainability section. 
The humanitarian crisis caused by the 
emergence of ISIS to the west of the KRI 
was a key focus of both the KRG and our 
community work in 2014, and we have been 
a leading supporter of the KRG’s Kurdistan 
Oil and Gas Humanitarian Initiative. 
Working with the KRG and leading NGOs, 
Genel has contributed to the provision  
of emergency aid to tens of thousands  
of vulnerable people displaced by conflict. 
We will continue to work with the KRG in 
2015, helping to ensure the wider benefit 
of our operations.
Outlook
Today, oil sales from the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq are regular and predictable, the 
relationship between Baghdad and Erbil  
is closer than it has been for many years, 
and payments for increasing oil exports 
are expected to continue throughout 2015. 
This, combined with low-cost onshore oil 
Second central processing facility at T aq T aq
W e will continue to 
work with the KRG in 
2015, helping to ensure 
the wider benefit of 
our operations.
19 www.genelenergy.com
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER  
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
AND GOVERNANCE
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
