 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
A LANDMARK YEAR FOR  
THE KURDISTAN REGION  
OF IRAQ OIL INDUSTRY
Low‑cost, growing 
production, and the 
financial strength  
to thrive. 
The support that the KRG has received 
from the international community 
underpins confidence that security 
will not be an impediment to our 
ongoing operations.
The third change this year was the 
overall political situation in Iraq. With  
the Iraq-Turkey export pipeline in Iraq 
inoperable, the major Baghdad-controlled 
Kirkuk oil reserves were left stranded to 
the detriment of the Iraqi people. This, 
allied with the increasing production in the 
KRI, contributed to the re-engagement of 
the Federal Government of Iraq with the 
KRG. Dialogue was helped by the election 
of a more inclusive, pragmatic leadership 
in Baghdad, led by Prime Minister Haider 
al-Abadi, which is keen to work together 
with the KRG for the benefit of all Iraqis. 
The interim oil export agreement, finalised 
in December, provides a pragmatic solution, 
ensuring that oil exports from the KRI are 
able to reach their full potential and boost 
Iraq as a whole, with the KRG receiving its 
full budget allocation. Further payments to 
contractors, including Genel, are expected 
to follow.
Powering the Kurdistan  
Region of Iraq 
With export infrastructure in place, in  
2014 Genel has focused on its producing 
operations in the KRI. Production at 
Taq Taq and Tawke increased by over 
50%, and the low-cost of this production 
is a clear advantage at a time when the  
oil price has fallen significantly. A similar 
rise in production is expected in 2015.  
This increase means that Genel is now one 
of the largest independent oil producers 
listed on the London Stock Exchange – 
I am pleased to welcome you to Genel 
Energy’s fourth Annual Report, detailing 
what has been a significant year in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq and for Genel. 
We have continued to deliver material 
growth in the business, and have 
successfully positioned the Company  
to grow over the coming years – even  
in a lower oil price environment.
2014 was transformational for the KRI’s 
oil and gas prospects. Three things 
fundamentally changed the operating 
environment. First, the region’s 
independent oil export infrastructure 
was completed, and pipeline exports 
rose throughout the year, reaching over 
400,000 bopd by the end of 2014. This is 
also set to increase significantly in 2015. 
Increased exports were matched by 
successful tanker liftings and sales, and 
the second half of 2014 saw KRI crude 
being sold by the KRG on the international 
market on a regular and predictable basis, 
generating international export prices. 
The second change in 2014 was the 
emergence of ISIS, which dominated 
world headlines throughout the year 
and has reshaped the political landscape 
in Syria and Iraq. While the initial military 
advances of ISIS created market 
uncertainty, throughout the period the 
Kurdistan Regional Government has been 
able to protect its borders. We continued 
to operate at our producing assets 
throughout the summer, and our operations 
remained safe and secure. Of course, we 
did take additional steps to ensure that  
our workforce were safe, and I would like 
to express my sincere thanks for their 
perseverance and commitment.
14 Annual Report 2014 a significant achievement for a business 
that only listed a little over three years ago.
Oil exports are crucial to the economy of 
the KRI, and we will continue to underpin 
the success of the KRG through helping 
facilitate the sale of gas by the KRG to 
Turkey. Under the KRG-Turkey Gas Sales 
Agreement, signed in November 2013, 
the KRG is set to provide energy-hungry 
Turkey with an initial 4 bcma of gas exports 
from 2018, rising to 10 bcma by 2020. 
Agreement for the development of our 
Miran and Bina Bawi fields, reached with 
the KRG in November, will unlock a 
world-class gas resource and will assist 
the KRG to satisfy both domestic gas 
demand and its obligations to Turkey. 
This agreement was also a milestone for 
Genel, materially de-risking the value of 
our gas business, giving attractive project 
returns while significantly lowering our 
capital exposure. 
Robust balance sheet
The Company has a clear strategy in  
place for an environment that has seen  
a significant fall in the oil price. Fiscal 
responsibility and a robust balance sheet 
are crucial in the oil and gas industry, and 
your board will ensure that the business is 
managed prudently and will continue to 
monitor opportunities to preserve the 
competitive advantage of our financial 
strength and ensure ongoing growth.
After the period end we announced Julian 
Metherell’s retirement from the Company, 
and the appointment of Ben Monaghan as 
Chief Financial Officer. Julian leaves Genel 
in a strong position to prosper, and on 
behalf of the board I would like to thank 
him for all of his hard work. We look 
forward to working with Ben, who has 
precisely the attributes we were looking 
for as we continue building on our 
position as a leading exploration and 
production company.
Governance and risk 
management
The changing environment reinforces the 
need for strong independent governance 
and we will continue to monitor carefully 
risk across all operations. In this, we work 
closely with regional authorities and local 
communities to ensure the safety of our 
staff and contractors and equally to 
maintain a strong reputation for 
responsible operations. 
Since Genel’s inception, a key pillar of our 
strategy has been to observe the highest 
standards of corporate governance. In line 
with this, we continue to have strong, 
independent audit and remuneration 
committees. For more details of these 
committees and your board’s activities 
this year, please see the governance 
section of this report. 
Operating responsibly 
Your company has a partnership with the 
Kurdistan Regional Government stretching 
back over a decade, and we are proud of 
the important role that we have played in 
the development of the KRI and its oil 
industry. It has been distressing to see the 
humanitarian crisis in the region, as over 
one million people were displaced by the 
actions of ISIS and sought refuge in the 
KRI. With an indigenous population of 
only five million people, this influx is 
unprecedented. 
The successful management of this 
influx is a testament to the leadership of 
KRG. We continue to help in any way that 
we can. Our core strength, producing 
hydrocarbons, is vital to the economic 
prosperity of the region, and we have 
further embedded ourselves into the 
communities in which we operate. 
These works, and our contribution to 
easing the humanitarian crisis, are 
detailed in this report.
Growth in a low-price world 
We move into 2015 with rising oil 
production in the KRI fuelling increased 
exports. Payments for these exports are 
set to continue.
Our production costs are amongst the 
lowest in the world, and a robust balance 
sheet, allied with the significant capital 
flexibility in our portfolio, leaves Genel well 
positioned to continue its growth even in a 
period of sustained low oil prices. 
Rodney Chase
Chairman
15 www.genelenergy.com
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER  
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
AND GOVERNANCE
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
