 Chief executive’s review
Mark Reid
Genetix Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts
Chief executive’s review
06
Introduction
Over the last two years, the biotechnology
industry has undergone a period of
volatility, marked by industry consolidation,
cutbacks in expenditure and a perception
that new technologies have failed to deliver
the promised breakthroughs in drug
discovery. This has led to funding difficulties
being experienced by many loss-making
companies. As a provider of equipment,
consumables and services to this industry,
Genetix has proactively managed the
business during the downturn in market
conditions and we have worked hard in
2002 to balance our objectives of increasing
market share, strengthening our sales 
force, and raising R&D spending, while
maintaining profitability and cash flow. 
We achieved a creditable performance in
the face of challenging market conditions
and remain one of the few consistently
profitable companies in our field.
Now that the initial euphoria of the Human
Genome Project has subsided, the focus is
on using this knowledge to develop new,
improved drugs. We believe that a broad
range of biological techniques will be
required to achieve this and have been
developing a range of modular technologies
to help our customers solve a variety of
complex scientific and technical problems.
In the short-term we are inevitably affected
by the changing structure in our markets
but overall, we believe that Genetix has the
technical and financial strength to remain
an important player in the next phase,
capitalising on the genome sequences 
to develop profitable therapies.
The award of the LINK grant was extremely
prestigious for Genetix and it demonstrated
that we are at the cutting edge of new
technologies. Our work on proteomics 
will help researchers better understand the
structure and function of proteins, a key 
step in the design of new gene-based
pharmaceuticals. New work underway on 
the automation of cell biology will further
broaden our technology offering by removing
the protein production bottleneck. As we
improve our marketing, we believe that
Genetix will become better known as one 
of the leading specialists capable of solving
problems within systems biology, using its
portfolio of technologies.
Performance review
Turnover rose to £12.6 million in 2002,
despite reduced capital expenditure on
instrumentation by academic groups and
biotechnology and pharmaceutical
companies, with sales of consumables and
services up 15% compared to 2001. Profit
before tax (before goodwill) was down by
11% largely due to the cost of building the
sales force and a 32% increase in R&D
expenditure. Both of these investments were
vital to position the company for long-term
growth by improving market reach and
expanding our technology and product range.
Like many companies encountering difficult
market conditions, we have had to balance
the twin aims of short-term profitability
against the longer-term investment required
to grow the business. It is vital that we focus
on the latter.
The Group remains both profitable and 
cash generative.
“We achieved a creditable
performance in the face
of challenging market
conditions and remain
one of the few consistently
profitable companies in
our field.” Genetix Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts
Chief executive’s review
07
Sales and marketing
During the year we doubled the direct sales
team operating in the US, UK and
Germany. In addition we:
– opened a new US office in Boston;
– moved our German sales office from
Heidelberg to Munich; and
– appointed new distributors in Australia,
Italy and the Czech Republic.
Product launches
During 2002, the main focus was on
developing and launching our new
microarray scanner, improving our benchtop
microarraying instrument and refining our
high-throughput stacking technology which
is used on many of our existing products.
Several new proteomics products were
developed and these will be formally
launched in 2003. The main product
initiatives were:
– aQuire scanner, developed throughout
the year and launched in the last quarter
of 2002, this highly sensitive and cost-
effective instrument enables Genetix to
offer a complete solution for producing
and analysing microarrays;
– QArrayMini, now includes a number of
new features which extend the product
into new markets;
– stacking systems, new improved modular
design that can enhance the throughput
of Genetix instruments;
– aliQuot, prototype of new automatic 
micro-dispensing filler which has potential
applications across a variety of areas
including pharmaceuticals;
– liquid handling, developed for the QBot
and adaptable to other Genetix platforms;
– several customised products were made 
for customers using novel techniques,
enhancing our knowledge of specialist
applications.
Research and development
This was a year of investment in R&D.
Expenditure rose by 32% to £1.5 million
(£1.4 million after LINK grant recovery), 
with 26% of the workforce now in this area.
Proportionately, gross R&D expenditure
represented just over 12% of sales and is
expected to remain around this level in the
short-term. The Group’s links with academic
institutions remain strong and our reputation
for developing novel solutions for systems
biology is growing, as evidenced by a
number of special projects undertaken during
the year. The team’s skills base broadened
significantly, particularly in the field of
proteomics, imaging and data handling.
Our growing position in proteomics was
strengthened by the award of the LINK
grant. The collaboration is aimed at enabling
the mapping of all human protein-protein
interactions to be undertaken with a high
degree of accuracy and in considerably less
time than is currently possible, helping to
bring forward the medical benefits of this
knowledge. We have built our first prototype
instrument and are about to start the first
phase of detailed testing with MRC early 
in 2003. 
Acquisitions 
Although the primary focus of the Group 
is development by organic growth, we are
in a strong position to take advantage of
opportunities for acquisition which will 
be evaluated as they occur.
Outlook
Throughout 2002 we experienced
unpredictable trading with significant
variations in order placement. The market
remains unchanged and given the current
macroeconomic uncertainties, we do not
anticipate an early improvement in trading.
The actions taken in 2002 will put Genetix
in a stronger position when the economic
climate eventually improves and we will
continue to focus on our strategy of growth
in anticipation of these medium-term
opportunities. We remain cautious about
prospects for 2003 but positive about the
longer-term and the variety of opportunities
in our areas of interest.
Mark Reid
Chief Executive
Objectives for 2003
– Focus on marketing and improve global market
presence, particularly in US
– Further expansion of proteomics product range and
launch of new cell biology products
– Progress LINK project with Medical Research Council
