 Chairman’s statement
John Morgan
Genetix Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts
Chairman’s statement
02
Genetix achieved a turnover of £12.6 
million in 2002, slightly higher than that
reported for the previous year, despite
difficult trading conditions. Profit before 
tax was £2.0 million compared to £2.2
million last year, the reduction largely being
attributable to increasing investment in 
key areas of the business. We believe 
that Genetix has emerged as a stronger
company with a blend of know-how,
products and technologies that will keep it
at the forefront in providing our customers
with solutions for systems biology in the
years ahead. We remain financially strong
and able to invest in opportunities that add
value to the business.
During the year we have been preparing 
for the future through intense R&D activity, 
sales recruitment and new product sales.
The R&D team focused on developing our
new range of scanners, liquid handling
capability, wellplate handling and new
proteomics techniques for measuring
protein-protein interactions. In sales, we
expanded our teams in the US, UK and
Germany and established our new base in
Boston, at the heart of the biotechnology
region on the East Coast of the US. New
products were successfully introduced and
feedback has been encouraging, particularly
for our scanning and benchtop
microarraying instruments.
In July, our growing position in proteomics
was strengthened by the award of a 
research grant to develop and build a 
verified human protein-protein interaction
map in collaboration with the Medical
Research Council’s Human Genome
Mapping Project Resource Centre. 
This highly prestigious award recognises 
our expertise in this field and we look
forward to working closely with our
academic partners in helping to advance 
the medical benefits that this knowledge 
will provide. 
In December 2002, Peter Jensen replaced
James Cochrane as a non-executive 
director. Peter is a former chairman of
SmithKline Beecham’s European Consumer
Healthcare operations and his extensive and
broad experience will be of great benefit 
to Genetix.
Notwithstanding unpredictable market
conditions, Genetix continues to operate 
from a position of strength from which 
to grow the business. This, together with 
a programme of new initiatives aimed 
at increasing sales, means that Genetix
faces the future with confidence.
John Morgan
Chairman
“We believe that Genetix
has emerged as a stronger
company with a blend 
of know-how, products
and technologies that 
will keep it at the forefront
in providing our customers
with solutions for systems
biology in the years ahead.” Key events of 2002
Genetix Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts
Key events of 2002
03
During the year we have been preparing for the future through 
intense R&D activity, sales recruitment and new product sales. 
Successful year for R&D
In December 2001, Genetix acquired the rights to manufacture
and market a range of high quality scanners. In less than twelve
months, we have taken the design concepts and developed a
first-class confocal laser scanner which we believe is competitive
with the current leading products in the market. We have already
made initial sales to several key customers – a real success story
for our multi-disciplined R&D team.
New Boston office
The opening of our new Boston office confirms our commitment
to the US market and represents the first major step in our plans
to expand operations on the East coast. The office is located
close to one of the main biotech centres in the US, including
some of our most important customers. 
Expansion of sales team
During the year, we invested a significant amount of time 
in strategically expanding our sales team in key market areas. 
We are now better represented and able to compete more
effectively. We intend to strengthen the team further during
2003 and improve our network of distributors. 
Award of LINK grant
The award of the LINK grant, one of the largest granted in 
the UK, recognises our increasing expertise in the field of
proteomics and cell biology. This technology is fundamental to
the understanding of disease and ultimately, in discovering new
drug targets. The project will last for three years and complement
our other work in proteomics.
