 6Genetix Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chief executive’s review
Introduction
The market volatility reported on at this time last year continued
well into 2003. We have seen the further consolidation of
companies in our sector and continuing uncertainty over funding
for the academic and biotechnology sectors. Around the middle 
of the year however, we saw an improvement in orders placed 
and there were visible signs that the financial markets were 
more receptive to investing in biotechnology once again. This
‘cautiously positive’ view has continued as we enter 2004. We
still encounter large variances in monthly order placement but 
the level of activity within the business gives us greater confidence
in our potential to improve on the past year’s performance. 
We believe the organisational and process improvement changes
put in place during 2003 will help Genetix in its efforts to deliver
enhanced sales and profit growth over the next few years. The
new SBU structure is already benefiting the business through
improved focus and direct accountability, and as a consequence,
Genetix will be more competitive in 2004. The ongoing
challenge is the execution and delivery of our plans, and
achieving the potential we believe is inherent in our business. 
Performance review
Sales improved in the second half of the year albeit 5% lower
than the same period last year. T urnover for the year was £10.8
million, despite challenging trading conditions encountered
during the year. Instrumentation sales suffered most from the
market uncertainty, with sales of £7.4 million, 19% lower than
in 2002. Consumables and services turnover was £3.4 million,
1% lower than 2002, as customers conserved funds for revenue,
rather than more expensive capital projects.
Throughout 2003, we invested a significant amount of time and
expense into building a management team capable of delivering
growth, and this process is ongoing. We have clearly set out 
our intention to achieve strong organic growth by investing in
people with proven ability to succeed, even if that means a
reduction in our short-term profitability in order to achieve 
longer-term success.
The increase in sales and administrative expenditure, together with
lower sales and continued investment in R&D, meant that profit
before tax (before goodwill of £0.4million) fell to £0.8 million.
The Group remains both profitable and cash generative.
Sales and marketing
Increased investment in sales and marketing throughout the year
resulted in the following important appointments of experienced
executives: 
 a senior sales executive to manage North America;
 additional sales and customer support staff in the US;
 two new managers to run our SBUs;
 a marketing communications manager.
A few key positions remain to be filled and we expect this to be
complete by the end of the first quarter 2004. The US remains our
most important market and the emphasis in 2003 has been very
much on strengthening this team and building the Genetix brand.
UK sales were on par with 2002, and accounted for 13% of total
sales. Sales to the rest of Europe were 9% higher than 2002,
largely due to the impact of currency. 
“We believe the organisational and process improvement changes
put in place during 2003 will help Genetix in its efforts to deliver
enhanced sales and profit growth over the next few years.”
H1060_Genetix_Front  12 3 2004  8:25 pm  Page 6 Genetix Group plc 7
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
The German market remained depressed throughout 2003 due to
cut backs in research funding and this is not expected to change
significantly during 2004. Sales to the US were 16% down on
2002, half of which was due to the weakness of the US dollar.
Elsewhere in the world, we continue to sell through a network of
worldwide distributors and believe we can improve our
performance in this area with sharper focus and support.
Product launches
During 2003, the main focus was on developing and launching
three major new products, as well as making enhancements to
several existing instruments. The main product initiatives were:
 aliQuot, the accurate low volume liquid dispenser, which has
potential applications across a variety of areas, including
pharmaceuticals;
 QArrayMax, an ultra high-throughput microarrayer;
 ClonePix, a new instrument for mammalian cell colony picking
using our core skills in imaging, picking and placing for cell
biology applications;
 refinement to the aQuire scanner, improving its sensitivity 
and software;
 development of QArray to become one of the leading
microarrayers in the market, including a high-throughput
option;
 several customised products were made for customers using
novel techniques, enhancing our knowledge of specialist
applications.
In 2004, all product launches will be controlled by our SBU
managers, together with specialist support from marketing. 
Research and Development
Genetix continued to increase its investment in R&D, with our
strategy focused on developing a modular and flexible range 
of technologies to broaden the current product range, and on
delivering new products to market quicker in the future.
Expenditure was controlled in line with market conditions and
was reduced to £1.4 million (£1.2 million after grant recoveries).
The year was dominated by the development of the aliQuot,
QArrayMax and ClonePix instruments, projects that involved 
the integration of different technologies to overcome difficult
technical challenges. 
Chief executive’s review continued
H1060_Genetix_Front  12 3 2004  8:25 pm  Page 7 8Genetix Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
With the introduction of new SBUs, our R&D projects will be
increasingly driven by the strategic direction of those business
teams, supported by a New Product Development Committee at
corporate level to approve the scientific and commercial viability
of any potential project.
Genetix was awarded two new contracts during the year. The EU
Gendisrupt Project was established in which Genetix, together
with partners from the Netherlands, Italy and Spain, will develop 
technologies for measuring changes in gene expression patterns
as a consequence of hormones found in the environment.
Genetix was also awarded a contract under the Oxford SPINE
(Structural Proteomics in Europe) project, lead by the University
of Oxford, to develop methods for high throughput protein
structure determination. These awards reinforce our strong
technological position in our chosen fields and give us access to
leading academic groups and networks. Work on the LINK grant
awarded last year has progressed well and the project has now
moved into its final phase of determining protein-protein
interactions in mammalian cells.
Acquisitions 
Although the primary focus of the Group is currently organic
growth, we are in a strong position to take advantage of
opportunities for acquisition. 
Outlook
As 2003 progressed, trading conditions improved and activity
levels increased across most areas of the business. The changes
made to the business in 2003 are designed to support growth in
turnover, underpinned by a structure that is able to sustain this
strategy. This means that in the short-term, an increase in sales
will not be matched by a similar growth in profitability, as our
organisation gears up for expansion.
While we believe that the current climate is improving, we
remain cautious about how quickly this will translate into better
funding for the biotechnology sector in general. Certain regions
such as Germany will remain difficult throughout 2004.
However, given our improved order book, our investment in staff
and a sustained high level of R&D, we anticipate a progressive
improvement in prospects over the course of 2004.
Mark Reid
Chief Executive
12% Rest of World
51% North America
24% Rest of Europe
13% United Kingdom
Turnover by geographic destination
68% Instrumentation
32% Consumables
and Services
Turnover by type
Chief executive’s review continued
H1060_Genetix_Front  12 3 2004  8:25 pm  Page 8
