 2Genetix Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Chairman’s statement
Genetix faced challenging market conditions throughout 2003.
Overall, the biotechnology industry continued to suffer from a
lack of funding resulting in difficulties for many companies and
cash conservation by many research organisations. Against this
background, Genetix achieved turnover of £10.8 million
compared to £12.6 million in 2002 but remained both profitable
and cash generative, finishing the year with a cash balance of
£22.1 million. Profit before tax was £0.4 million compared to
£2.0 million last year, primarily as a result of poor sales in the
first half of the year, increased investment in our sales team, 
and new additions to the management team.
During the fourth quarter, we recruited Trevor Bell as Chief
Operating Officer, to manage the day to day operations of the
business and drive sales growth. Trevor has a broad range of
experience working in many different industries with particular
focus on sales and marketing. Since his appointment, he has
been heavily involved in the production of our business plan and
in driving through the processes required to make it a success.
A new Strategic Business Unit (SBU) structure was put in place
during the second half of the year to improve focus on driving 
the different segments of the business: Picking and Placing,
Microarraying, Liquid Handling, Reagents and Consumables.
This represents a major change in the organisational structure 
of the business as the SBUs have responsibility for the strategic
development and operating performance of their product groups.
Our continued investment in sales and marketing focused on
increasing our US sales and customer support team, under the
responsibility of a new experienced senior executive. These
actions intensify our efforts to compete more effectively in the
world’s largest and most important market.
Following this substantial organisational change, it is important
that we have the ability to attract and retain managers of the
highest calibre, aligning their interests with shareholders’
interests with performance related share options. For this reason
a resolution seeking an increase in the shares available under our
discretionary share option scheme will be proposed at the AGM,
full details of which are included in the Remuneration
Committee’s report and explanatory notes of the special 
business to be conducted at that meeting.
During the year, we focused primarily on developing and
launching three new products – the aliQuot, ClonePix and
QArrayMax. These were produced in response to customer needs
and will be among the key products for Genetix over the next few
years. Genetix continues to use its technical skill and ingenuity to
produce leading edge systems.
Despite the challenging market conditions during 2003, Genetix
took a major step forward by restructuring its business with a
view to generating significant future sales growth. We believe that
we have laid the foundations to take advantage of the many
opportunities open to us. The increased focus adopted during
2003 and improving market conditions means that we look
forward to a better performance in 2004.
John Morgan
Chairman
“Genetix took a major step forward by restructuring its business
with a view to generating significant future sales growth.”
H1060_Genetix_Front  12 3 2004  8:25 pm  Page 2
