 Genus plc Annual Report 2011
02 Company Overview
Chairman’s Statement
Bob Lawson
I was very proud to become Chairman of Genus last 
November and, in this my first statement to you as 
shareholders, I am pleased to report strong business 
performance and sound underlying strategic progress.
Results
Genus achieved good results for the year ended 30 June 
2011. Revenue rose 9%, compared with only 2% growth 
last year, as customer demand for genetics began to 
recover post the agricultural recession. Adjusted pre-tax 
profits rose 19% to £39.0m and adjusted earnings per 
share were up 22% at 44.8p.
With the major capital investment programme, started two 
years ago, to increase product development capacity now 
complete, cash generation was also strong with net debt 
reducing by £12.1m to £67.9m.
Strategy
The strength of the Group’s strategy lies in the combination of 
the underlying fundamental growth inherent in the markets in 
which the Group operates, the strength of the Group’s global 
sales and distribution network and perhaps most importantly 
of all, the success of its research and product development in 
ensuring the Group’s products remain market leading.
Global population growth and increasing urbanisation are 
driving increased demand for food and protein in diets. The 
growth in demand for Genus’ products that this creates is 
further enhanced by the need for farming to become more 
efficient. Improved animal genetics is a key component in 
meeting these demands.
Against this background, the success of Genus’ research 
and product development programme is vital to ensuring 
that the Group maintains its leading position as the natural 
provider of improved genetics. The Board’s recognition of 
the importance of this is reflected in the emphasis placed 
on the workings of the Group’s Science Committee and the 
regular reporting of progress to the Board. The Science 
Committee is chaired by Professor Barry Furr and oversees 
the allocation of research funds to projects based on their 
importance and likelihood of commercial success as well 
as monitoring progress in global research and product 
development activities. The results to date are impressive, 
with industry leading performance in both our porcine and 
bovine product ranges. To further enhance our competitive 
position, we plan to continue to increase our investment in 
research and product development in the current year.
Genus has an extensive global sales and distribution network 
through which to distribute its products. As reported by 
Richard, much attention is being placed on extending this 
network to take advantage of the opportunities available in 
fast growing emerging markets.
Dividend
The Board is recommending an increase in the final 
dividend for the year ended 30 June 2011 of 10% to 
13.3 pence per share. Subject to shareholder approval 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 10 November 2011, this dividend will be paid on 
25 November 2011 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 11 November 2011.
As the Group has now completed its major investment 
programme to expand its product development and 
production facilities and has returned to being strongly 
cash generative, the Board has reviewed its dividend policy. 
It has concluded that it will introduce an interim dividend. 
As a result, the final dividend for the year just ended is being 
brought forward from January 2012 to November 2011, 
“ I am pleased to report strong 
business performance and sound 
underlying strategic progress.” Genus plc Annual Report 2011
03
Company
Overview
Business 
Review
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
and the Board expects to pay an interim dividend in April 
2012 of approximately one third of the total dividend for 
the year.
Directors and Employees
During the last year, a key task for me and my Board 
colleagues has been to manage the succession of our 
Chief Executive Richard Wood as he approached retirement.
I am pleased to welcome Karim Bitar to the Board. Karim 
joined the Board on 1 September 2011 and will become Chief 
Executive on Richard’s retirement on 30 September 2011.
Karim, a biochemist by training, has an outstanding 
reputation for delivering international growth with market-
leading pharmaceutical products. The Board believes that 
his extensive experience combined with his commitment 
and enthusiasm for innovation will provide further impetus 
to Genus’ development.
Richard has led Genus as Chief Executive for over 14 years. 
During this period Genus has been transformed from a small 
UK operation into a truly global business with growth driven 
by its in-house research and development and worldwide 
distribution. On behalf of the Board and shareholders, 
I would like to thank Richard for the huge commitment and 
contribution that he has made to Genus and wish him a long 
and enjoyable retirement.
As you know, John Hawkins, my predecessor, stepped 
down at last year’s AGM and I would like to record my 
thanks to John for an exemplary handover and for all his 
hard work for Genus during his ten years as a Director.
In my first year as Chairman, I have begun to visit our key 
operations and met many of our people.
My impressions are:
1. The Group operates in a global segment that has 
substantial potential. Demand for quality food efficiently 
produced to meet the growing population needs will 
underpin the Group’s future growth and development.
2. Genus has excellent standards of animal husbandry. The 
animals are well housed and looked after by committed 
and knowledgeable people.
3. Significant expertise resides in the research activities 
of the Group. For us, our primary competitive advantage 
is market leading genetics and these genetics have to 
match the needs of individual countries as well as 
specific customers. I have been most impressed by the 
expertise that we have within the organisation and our 
commitment to provide superior products at attractive 
prices directly from the research activities.
4. We have a global footprint and an increasingly credible 
presence in the important emerging markets. These will be 
the significant profit drivers for the Group in the years ahead.
5. The lasting impression is of the professionalism and 
commitment of everyone in all spheres of activity that I 
have met. This team of people operating in 30 countries 
provides a service to customers which you as owners of 
Genus can justifiably be proud. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank them all for their hard work and 
support in continuing to deliver best in class service to 
customers and another year of record profits.
I am confident that the Group’s global footprint, investment 
in research and product development and industry leading 
product portfolio leaves Genus well placed to continue the 
progress made in the last year and to benefit from the 
long-term growth available in its global markets.
Bob Lawson
Chairman
5 September 2011
Karim Bitar and Richard Wood
