 Genus plc Annual Report 2011
04 Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Richard Wood
Actual Currency
Constant 
Currency
2011
£m
2010
£m
Movement
%
Movement
%
Revenue 309.9 285.3 9 9
Adjusted operating 
profit inc JVs 45.3 42.2 7 8
Adjusted profit 
before tax 39.0 32.9 19 19
Adjusted earnings 
per share (p) 44.8 36.7 22 23
In this my final review of Genus’ progress as Chief Executive 
Officer, I am pleased to be able to report that Genus achieved 
a strong performance in the year to 30 June 2011, delivering 
record results with revenue up 9% to £309.9m and adjusted 
profit before tax increasing by 19% to £39.0m.
The recovery in global agricultural markets that began 
to improve the genetics market in the first half of this year 
continued to progress. This led to improved demand for 
genetics from our customers, especially in Latin America 
and the USA. Genus achieved good volume growth in 
those markets but the Far East porcine market remained 
depressed until the final quarter and the European porcine 
market is yet to recover.
With the benefit of the improved trading and reduced capital 
expenditure, the cash inflow for the year was £10.0m and this 
reduced net debt to below £70m.
Group Performance
Revenue for the year of £309.9m was up 9%. The increase 
was driven principally by growth in sales in both North America 
and Latin America. Growth was particularly noticeable in 
the porcine business where sales of breeding animals 
grew strongly.
Adjusted operating profit, including the contribution from joint 
ventures, increased by 7% to £45.3m. North America and 
Latin America both recorded double digit profit growth, due 
to the strength of the market recovery and, in Latin America, 
underlying market growth. The porcine operations performed 
particularly well delivering 8% volume growth. In Europe where 
the market was more fragile, bovine performed robustly. 
However the region’s profits were held back by the depressed 
state of the European pig market which is also suffering from 
the increased cost and uncertainty associated with imminent 
environmental and welfare legislation. This resulted in lower 
demand for porcine breeding animals. The Far East profitability 
was at a similar level to last year. The Chinese pig market 
was depressed until the final quarter because of widespread 
outbreaks of disease but has recovered and is now strong. 
The region made good progress in bovine with volumes well 
up, particularly in China.
We increased investment in Research and Development 
by 8% to drive further progress in product development 
activities to meet projected future demand and to enhance 
genetic progress.
Finance costs were reduced by £3.0m to £6.3m. Pension 
interest and bank interest costs reduced, with the latter 
benefiting from a tighter control of working capital and 
improved cash generation from trading.
The increased adjusted operating profit and lower finance 
costs combined to produce a 19% increase in adjusted 
profit before tax to £39.0m. Exchange movements had a 
minimal effect in the year with profit before tax up 19% at 
constant currency.
As explained in the Financial Review on page 28, the 
statutory operating profit of £44.8m was 5% lower than last 
year (2010: £47.0m). This result is struck after non-recurring 
“ In this my final year as Chief 
Executive, I am pleased to report 
record results with adjusted 
pre‑tax profits up 19%.” Genus plc Annual Report 2011
05
Company
Overview
Business 
Review
Corporate 
Governance
Financial
Statements
exceptional items and certain non-cash items, particularly 
the net IAS 41 valuation movement in biological assets. The 
nature and volatility of these items do not properly reflect the 
underlying performance of the business. It is for this reason 
that we report externally and use internally adjusted profit 
to measure performance. Statutory profit before tax was 
£40.8m (2010: £40.8m) after the benefit of reduced interest 
charges. Statutory earnings per share rose 6% to 49.0 pence 
per share (2010: 46.3 pence).
Strategy
I am pleased to report that the programme to expand 
product development and increase production capacity 
by 30% was successfully completed in the first half of this 
financial year. This new capacity is helping to maintain and 
grow our product lead and is also providing the capacity 
necessary to meet rising demand both in our established 
markets and to open up developing markets, particularly, 
in the RIC countries, Russia, India and China. 
A key plank of the Group’s strategy is to capture growth in 
these fast growing developing markets. Our objective is that 
the Far East and Latin America regions should grow within 
five years to become 40% of earnings from their current 
31%. Good progress has been made in the laying of 
foundations to achieve this growth. 
We have strengthened the management teams in both the 
Far East and Latin America. New regional managers were 
appointed to an enlarged Far East region that now includes 
Russia and to oversee operations in the equally important 
Latin American market. We also recruited a new managing 
director for China in view of the strong growth envisaged for 
that market.
We have also progressed our plans to increase sales of 
domestically produced product in Russia, India and China. 
A newly acquired stud in Russia has been stocked with bulls 
from the USA and became operational in August 2011. We 
commenced the sale of locally produced semen in India and 
in China, we have increased to 48 the number of Australian 
sourced progeny-tested bulls available to support growth in 
that fast developing market. We have also expanded our 
porcine operation in China, albeit at a slower pace than 
originally planned because of the temporarily depressed 
prospects there.
These steps have enabled us to achieve a 9% sales increase 
in the RIC countries and leave us well placed to benefit from 
further growth in these markets.
Outlook
Despite the current economic uncertainties, by the end 
of Genus’ financial year, most global agricultural markets 
were considerably more favourable than a year ago and 
we expect these market conditions to continue.
In July, US bovine sales were reduced by a heatwave 
in some states but this was offset by a much improved 
performance in our porcine business across the Far East. 
Overall trading has been in line with our expectations and 
we look forward confidently to another year of good growth.
I am delighted to be able to hand over such a healthy and 
prosperous business. Genus has an exceptional team of 
managers and staff, all dedicated and hardworking. I have 
enjoyed working with them over the last 14 years and would 
like to thank them for their courtesy, help and support in our 
joint endeavours. I feel sure they will continue to show the 
same resolve for success and commitment to my 
successor, Karim Bitar.
Richard Wood
Chief Executive
5 September 2011
