 04 | Genus plc Annual Report 2013
Genus global sales and operations
A WORLD-LEADING 
BUSINESS
GeNus at a GLa Nce
Genus	plays	an	important	role	in	
the	world’s	agricultural	economy.	
Our	products	enable	our	
customers	to	meet	the	growing	
demand	for	pork,	beef	and	milk,	
driven	by	urbanisation	and	rising	
populations	and	incomes,	and	to	
cope	with	tightening	limits	on	the	
land	and	water	resources	available	
for	food	production.	
Genus’s Competitive Advantage
Our	competitive	edge	comes	from	owning	and	controlling	proprietary	
lines	of	breeding	animals	and	using	biotechnology	to	continuously	improve	
them.	We	combine	this	product	and	scientific	excellence	with	a	global	
supply	chain,	technical	service,	and	distribution	and	sales	network,	
ensuring	we	can	meet	our	customers’	needs	and	help	them	to	maximise	
their	benefits	from	our	products.
The	majority	of	our	competitors	are	traditional	co-operatives,	making	
Genus	unique	as	a	listed	company.	Our	business	model	and	multi-species	
approach	allow	us	to	continually	strengthen	and	leverage	our	technology	
platform	more	broadly,	thereby	delivering	value	to	customers	and	
shareholders	alike.	
Our	success	has	given	us	market-leading	positions.	We	have	25%	of		
the	porcine	market,	more	than	double	our	nearest	competitor,	as	well		
as	25%	in	beef	and	8%	of	global	dairy	sales.	We	sell	under	well-known	
trademarks,	‘PIC’	for	pigs	and	‘ABS’	for	dairy	and	beef	cattle,	in	more		
than	70	countries	worldwide.
What We Do
Genus	is	a	world	leader	in	applying	
biotechnology	to	advance	the	
science	of	animal	breeding	
and	genetic	improvement.	
Our	technology	is	applicable	
to	all	livestock	species	and	we	
currently	commercialise	it	in	the	
dairy,	beef	and	pork	sectors.
To	do	this,	we	breed	the	world’s	best	
pigs	and	bulls,	scientifically	selecting	
livestock	whose	offspring	will	
increase	value	for	farmers	and	food	
producers	around	the	world,	with	
the	ultimate	goal	of	making	pork,	
beef	and	milk	more	affordable,	better	
quality	and	safer	for	consumers.	
In	the	porcine	market,	we	offer	
genetically	superior	boars	and	
sows	that	produce	high-quality	
and	efficient	offspring,	with	
higher	carcass	value	and	desirable	
characteristics	such	as	feed-
efficient	growth	or	leaner	meat.
In	the	dairy	and	beef	markets,	our	
primary	product	is	bull	semen,	
which	we	produce	in-house	in	
five	locations	worldwide.	Artificial	
insemination	from	semen	straws	
produces	high-quality	cattle,	
enabling	our	customers	to	improve	
their	herds	and	their	efficiency.
Our Vision
Pioneering	animal	genetic	
improvement	to	help	nourish	
the world.
How We Operate
With	headquarters	in	Basingstoke,	UK,	Genus	companies	operate	in	30	
countries	on	six	continents,	with	research	laboratories	located	in	Madison,	
Wisconsin,	USA.	We	also	sell	to	customers	in	another	40	countries	through	
distribution	channels.	
Genus	operates	through	three	business	units:
•	 Genus	PIC	services	porcine	customers	in	North	America,	Latin	America		
and	Europe
•	 Genus	ABS	services	dairy	and	beef	customers	in	North	America,	Latin	
America	and	Europe
•	 Genus	Asia	focuses	on	the	fast-growing	Asian	market,	in	both	the	porcine	
and	bovine	segments
A	shared	research	and	development	function	supports	our	operating	divisions. Genus plc Annual Report 2013 | 05
strate Gic
review
c Or POrate
GOve r Na Nc e
FiNa Nc ia L
s tate MeNts
Global Leadership in Animal Genetic Improvement
Improvement
Robust Genetic
Improved productivity.
Shareholder return.
 Di ﬀerentiation
Realised Product
Global Supply
Chain
 T echnical Support
Services
Key Account
Management
Our Business Model
r obust Genetic improvement
Generating	robust	and	continuous	
genetic	improvement	is	at	the	
heart	of	our	business	model.	
We	are	leveraging	genomics	
to	accelerate	our	delivery	of	
valuable	genetic	improvements.	
In	porcine,	we	base	our	core	genetic	
improvement	programme	in	two	
nucleus	farms,	in	Canada	and	the	US.	
We	combine	quantitative	sciences	
with	leading-edge	biotechnology,	
while	adopting	a	‘discovery	without	
walls’	approach	to	external	genes,	
where	they	can	add	to	our	portfolio	
and	meet	customer	needs.
Our	dairy	and	beef	product	
development	creates	elite	bulls	
from	a	range	of	progeny-testing	
and	young-sire	programmes.	We	
are	adapting	our	genetic	selection	
programme	to	focus	on	traits	
of	high	economic	importance	
to	our	customers	and	to	gain	
greater	control	over	the	genes.	
These	development	programmes	
are	supported	by	our	research	
division,	which	aims	to	develop	
proprietary	technologies	in	areas	
such	as	gender	skew	and	disease	
resistance,	which	help	to	increase	
the	affordability	and	quality	of	pork,	
beef	and	milk.	We	employ	more	than	
100	scientists	and	skilled	technicians,	
and	have	a	track	record	of	working	
successfully	in	partnership	with	
universities,	consortia	and	others.	
r ealised Product Differentiation
Consumers	around	the	world	have	
different	preferences	and	our	
genetic	improvement	programmes	
deliver	a	wide	range	of	products	
and	services	tailored	to	them.	
Successful	product	development	
therefore	starts	from	our	customers’	
perspective.	Understanding	
their	needs	helps	us	to	develop	
outstanding	and	differentiated	
products	and	services,	and	we	aim	to	
get	our	products	to	market	quickly,	
so	we	can	rapidly	transfer	the	best	
genes	to	our	customers’	systems.	
Global s upply c hain
In	our	porcine	business,	we		
outsource	more	than	95%	of	our		
pig	multiplication	requirements		
to	third-party	producers	or	
customers.	Our	network	of	
multiplication	partners	is	a	
significant	strength,	allowing	us	
to	meet	demand	for	our	genetics	
while	reducing	our	exposure	to	
farming	and	commodity	risk.	
In	dairy	and	beef,	Genus	ABS	
leverages	both	its	distribution	and	
sales	networks	directly	with	in-
house	employees,	independent	
representatives	or	distributors,	to	
efficiently	reach	our	customers	
and	build	brand	loyalty.	
t echnical s upport s ervices
Ensuring	our	products	meet	
customers’	expectations	is	critical,	
so	experienced	technical	service	
teams	support	our	distribution	
and	sales	efforts.	These	teams	
ensure	the	product	is	right	and	
help	our	customers	to	achieve	the	
best	results.	This	creates	a	winning	
situation	for	us	and	our	customers,	
enhancing	customer	loyalty.	
We	support	our	customers	with	
technical	services	in	important	areas	
such	as	nutrition,	reproduction,	
health	management	and	genetics.	
For	example,	in	dairy,	our	global	
Genetic	Management	System	
helps	customers	through	sire	
selection,	to	create	the	progeny	
that	will	develop	their	herd	in	the	
way	they	wish.	Our	Reproductive	
Management	System	team	also	
helps	customers	to	improve	
reproduction,	a	critical	contributor	
to	their	profitability.	In	porcine,	we	
provide	performance	comparisons	
across	our	customers,	so	they	
can	benchmark	their	operational	
performance	and	the	impact	of	
genetics	against	industry	peers.
Key a ccount Management
In	porcine,	we	are	increasingly	
working	in	long-term	relationships	
with	our	customers,	under	multi-
year	royalty	contracts.	This	aligns	
our	goals	with	our	customers’	
key	performance	metrics,	as	
they	pay	Genus	based	on	the	
performance	and	value	we	deliver.	
It	also	reduces	volatility	in	our	
results,	by	mitigating	the	impact	
of	cyclical	price	reductions	or	
cost	increases	in	pig	production.	
In	2013,	74%	of	porcine	volumes	
were	under	royalty	contracts.
In	bovine,	we	sell	the	majority	of	
our	semen	on	a	per	dose	basis	and	
use	our	service	offerings	to	create	
longer-lasting	relationships.	Our	
customer	segmentation	and	focus	
on	account	management	allows	
us	to	increasingly	focus	on	the	
customers	who	place	the	highest	
value	on	these	relationships.
