 0
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
GEORGE WIMPEY PLC PEER GROUP FTSE 250
400
300
200
100
I am delighted to be able to announce yet
another year of further progress and record
ﬁnancial results for George Wimpey Plc.
The past four years have been years of
remarkable growth for George Wimpey, four
years in which we have taken a number of
important management decisions to secure the
long term success of our business.We believe
that these actions have placed George Wimpey
in a stronger position from which to respond to
the changing conditions we have experienced
since the UK housing market started to slow
during the second half of 2004. In the UK our
focus on cost control and careful land buying
will help us sustain the improvement we have
achieved over the past few years in our
operating margins. Our US business, Morrison
Homes, has achieved an excellent growth
performance in recent years and has been
steadily building its position to take advantage
of the strong market conditions in the US.
Our scale and diversity provide us with
opportunities to rebalance our business
interests so we can take advantage of strengths
in different markets.This will ensure we achieve
the Board’s key objective of delivering value 
for our shareholders.
GROUP RESULTS
Despite the slower market conditions
experienced in the UK during the second half
of the year, the Group achieved a further
signiﬁcant improvement in ﬁnancial
performance and indeed delivered proﬁts
which exceeded market expectations at 
the time of our interim results, despite the
subsequent market downturn. Although
Group turnover increased by only 4% to
£3,005.7 million, proﬁt before tax rose by 
19% to £450.7 million.
4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (£)
JOHN ROBINSON, CHAIRMAN
“THE PAST FOUR YEARS HAVE BEEN
YEARS OF REMARKABLE GROWTH
FOR GEORGE WIMPEY”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT the stronger end of our expectations. We are
currently operating from 12% more outlets
than at the same time last year. Pricing has
been broadly stable, with the use of incentives
generally below the levels seen last autumn.
The outlook in the US remains strong. Visitor
levels and selling rates are both ahead of the
same period last year. We have the land in
place to support continuing strong volume
growth in 2005.
Overall, the Group remains well placed
through the actions of recent years to
respond to the needs of its markets in 2005.
5
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk
shareholders to take advantage of this service
where possible. Full details are set out in the
Form of Proxy.
I was delighted to welcome Peter Redfern to
the Board as an Executive Director in October.
Peter took over responsibility for the total UK
housing business at the beginning of this year
and the Board has been delighted with the
way in which he has established himself in
this demanding role. His operational
knowledge will play a vital part in ensuring
that the Board’s broad spread of knowledge
and experience is used to best effect in
providing support for our businesses.
EMPLOYEES
On behalf of the Board I would like to offer
sincerest thanks to all our employees in the
UK and the US for their continuing hard work.
It is their dedication and enthusiasm that
underpin our future success and I am proud
of their commitment to making sure our
business remains a real leader in our sector.
OUTLOOK
At the time of writing this report, after only
seven weeks of trading, it is premature to
draw ﬁrm conclusions on the market outlook
in the UK, especially with a general election
expected in the spring. However, visitor 
levels and interest in this period have been
encouraging and reservations have been at
5
www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk
John Robinson
Chairman
EXTERNAL BENCHMARK
In July 2003, the Board stated that it believed
shareholders should beneﬁt more fully from
the improvement that has been achieved in
the Company’s performance and that it
therefore proposed increasing the dividend
ahead of growth in earnings per share for a
period of time. Although the strong market
we have seen in the UK over the past few
years is unlikely to continue in 2005, the Board
believes the underlying strength of the
business gives it the conﬁdence to continue
this policy. It is therefore proposing an increase
of 28% in the ﬁnal dividend to 10.8 pence per
share.This follows a 37% increase in the
interim dividend announced in July. If
approved at our Annual General Meeting 
on 14 April 2005, this would bring the total
dividend for the year to 16 pence per share,
a rise of 31% on 2003, and dividend cover
would remain secure at 5.1 times based on
2004 earnings per share.The Board’s proposal
would mean dividends per share would have
more than doubled in the past four years.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND THE BOARD 
We continue to strive to act as a responsible
company and achieving the highest levels of
corporate governance remains a priority for
the Board. I am therefore pleased to report
that in a recent survey Deutsche Bank judged
George Wimpey to be in the top 10% of 
the FTSE 350 companies in its Corporate
Governance standards. I am also very pleased
to be able to state that throughout 2004 the
Board operated in full compliance with the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
During the year our Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee has overseen the
CSR activities of our companies to ensure we
respond appropriately to the global challenges
of delivering sustainable development.
I can also report that I led a comprehensive
review of the performance of the Board and
of the Board Committees during the year.
Not only does this process enable me to
ensure each Board member is able to bring 
to our Board any ideas or experiences gained
from other Boards but it also enables me to
ensure each Board member is able to
contribute in full.
In line with best practice, we are introducing a
facility to allow shareholders to register proxy
votes electronically this year. I would like to
take this opportunity to encourage
“GEORGE WIMPEY HAS TOP DECILE CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT AND IS NEAR THE TOP
OF ITS SECTOR. IT HAS POSITIVE GOVERNANCE
MOMENTUM, ALSO AT THE TOP END OF ITS SECTOR”
FROM ‘BEYOND THE NUMBERS – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN THE UK’ DEUTSCHE BANK FEBRUARY 2004
