 Group results
Although 2005 was a challenging year for George Wimpey, we emerged from it stronger and better
placed for the future.
The housing market in the UK remained difﬁcult throughout the year, with the total number of housing
transactions for 2005 17% below the previous year. Against this background, our businesses did well to
deliver total UK volumes similar to last year as well as signiﬁcantly increasing our forward order position
entering 2006. The increased use of incentives needed to achieve this, along with the impact of a shorter
landbank, resulted in reduced operating proﬁts and margins. By contrast the US housing markets in which
we operate remained very strong, with national housing starts reaching record levels. We continued 
to push forward strongly with our growth plans and delivered higher volumes, margins and operating
proﬁts. In the US too, we have come into the new year with a far stronger order book. 
Total turnover for the Group rose slightly to £3,003.2 million (2004: £2,976.0 million). Reﬂecting 
the more challenging market conditions in the UK, Group proﬁt before tax fell to £366.5 million 
(2004: £437.6 million), 16% below the record levels achieved last year.
Dividend
We remain committed to delivering long term growth in both of our housebuilding businesses. 
Although the UK business experienced difﬁcult trading conditions during 2005, the Board remain
conﬁdent in the underlying strength and cash generative capability of the Group.
We are therefore proposing an increase of 10% in the ﬁnal dividend to 11.9 pence per share. Following 
the 10% increase in the interim dividend, if approved at our Annual General Meeting, our recommended
increase would bring the total dividend relative to the year to 17.6 pence per share. This represents a
rise of 10% on 2004 and a cumulative rise of 113% over the past ﬁve years. 
The Board
During 2005 I have been delighted to welcome two new independent Non Executive Directors 
to the Board. Tony Reading joined us on 15 April, having previously been an Executive Director of 
Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp, USA. Tony has brought with him a
wealth of operational experience gained both within the UK and the US. Robert Sharpe, Chief Executive
of The Portman Building Society, joined us on 1 September as Mike Blackburn stood down as a Non
Executive Director. Robert brings with him a wealth of experience from the ﬁnancial services sector 
and will provide insight into the housing ﬁnance market. Mike has been a highly respected member 
of the Board for six years and held the positions of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
Senior Independent Director. David Williams succeeded Mike as our Senior Independent Director. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Mike for the tremendous contribution made during 
his time with the Company. 
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
The Board remains conﬁdent in 
the underlying strength and cash
generative capability of the Group.
We are therefore proposing an
increase of 10% in the dividend 
over 2004.
4 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Focusing on 
long term growth
Dividend per share
(pence)
20
16
12
8
4
0
05 04 03 02 01
17.6
8.25
9.1
12.25
16.0
    On 21 November, we announced that Stu Cline would be retiring as Chairman of Morrison Homes and 
as a Director of George Wimpey Plc at the end of December 2005. Stu joined Morrison Homes in 1994 
and has been the driving force behind the enormous success of our US housing business. Since joining
the Board in December 2000, Stu has made a valued contribution not only to the success of the US
business but also to the Group as a whole. I was very pleased that we were able to announce that Steve
Parker, who took over from Stu as President of Morrison Homes at the beginning of 2005, would join the
Board as an Executive Director as from 1 January 2006.
In October 2000 Peter Johnson joined George Wimpey as Group Chief Executive charged with the task of
transforming the performance of our Company. There can be no doubt that over the past ﬁve years, with
Peter’s direction, this business has been transformed and it is in a much stronger position today than it
was when he took over. Over the past ﬁve years total shareholder returns have been signiﬁcantly above
those of the UK housebuilding sector. As well as delivering major operational changes and improvements,
he successfully managed the internal succession of Peter Redfern to Chief Executive of our UK business at
the beginning of 2004 and of Steve Parker to President of Morrison Homes at the beginning of 2005. With
this in place, Peter has now concluded that he believes this is the right time for the business, and for him,
to hand over the reins and that he wishes to retire from George Wimpey with effect from 30 June 2006. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter both personally and on behalf of the Board for all
that he has done to create a stronger, more uniﬁed business and one that is now in a position to move
forward again.
I am particularly pleased that during his time as Group Chief Executive, Peter has been able to develop his
successor from within the business. Peter Redfern has been appointed Deputy Chief Executive with effect
from 21 February 2006 to work alongside Peter until his retirement to ensure a smooth transition for all in
the business. Peter Redfern will be appointed Group Chief Executive on Peter’s retirement. 
Employees
We are fortunate to have a dedicated and loyal work force whose continuing support and hard work 
has helped to strengthen our business. On behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity once 
again to thank all of our employees in the UK and the US for all they have achieved over the past year.
Outlook 
In the UK, the improvement that we experienced at the end of 2005 has continued and we remain
encouraged by growing signs of returning buyer conﬁdence. Although it is too early to predict the market
for the year, the level of transactions in the ﬁrst seven weeks of the new year has started to increase,
and in some areas we are reducing incentives. In the relatively stable price conditions we expect in
the near future, we are conﬁdent that our stronger order book gives us a better negotiating position
to reduce incentives.
Towards the end of 2005 the market across much of the US slowed as the rapid pace of price growth
experienced since mid 2004 moderated. Morrison had already taken early action to increase its order
book and entered 2006 with a strong forward sales position in terms of volume, price and margin.
Industry projections forecast only a modest reduction in volumes to levels which remain historically high.
John Robinson Chairman
Over the past ﬁve years George
Wimpey has been transformed 
and the business today is in a 
much stronger position than it was
when Peter took over in 2000. Total
shareholder returns in this period
have been signiﬁcantly above those
of the UK housebuilding sector.
www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 5
Business Review
