 Whilst the testing market conditions
we faced in the UK during 2005
presented us with particular
challenges, we are emerging 
from them stronger than ever.
Lessons have been learned, and
changes made. Going forward, all 
regional businesses will have the
opportunity to use both the George
Wimpey and Laing Homes brands.
This will allow better use of large
sites and provide greater returns 
on future land purchases.
This is my sixth and last Review as Chief Executive of George Wimpey. It is, therefore, a good time 
to reﬂect on the progress the Group has made over the last ﬁve and a half years and to report on 
its strength as I prepare to pass its leadership to my successor, Pete Redfern, later this year.
Whilst the testing market conditions we faced in the UK during 2005 presented us with particular
challenges, we are emerging from them stronger than ever. Our position in the US has been transformed
over the past ﬁve years and we are now a major player in some of our markets with outstanding long 
term potential. Going forward, the Group is well placed in its UK and US markets which gives it both
opportunities and choices for future growth.
UK – George Wimpey 
UK house prices rose rapidly until mid 2004 when stretched affordability led to a substantial drop in
transactions. A year ago, many commentators were forecasting signiﬁcant price falls. However prices
remained broadly stable through 2005 and today almost all competitors believe the market has had 
a soft landing. In the absence of more general economic problems, the outlook would appear stable,
though without a return to strong price growth.
In 2005, George Wimpey delivered 12,100 homes and £278 million operating proﬁt, up from 11,437 homes
and £142 million operating proﬁt in 2000. However, in 2004, we had delivered 12,232 homes and £409
million operating proﬁt. A short landbank and order book, together with changes in the market and the
planning regime, posed particular challenges to us, which impacted 2005 margins.
In 2001 we restructured the business to one with an efﬁcient overhead structure and product range and
low build costs. We acquired McAlpine Homes and invested in our landbank, raising hurdle rates to deliver
improved margins. We acquired Laing Homes to give us a second brand to support organic growth.
However, our landbank remained short and our strategic land limited. With few sites coming forward with
older planning permissions, the implementation of Government planning policy, PPG3, impacted us faster
than most. Underlying build costs rose sharply as our build efﬁciencies were eroded. When prices stopped
rising, margins fell as high build costs on bespoke PPG3 schemes compounded the higher land costs
associated with a short landbank. 
Lessons have been learned, and changes made. Going forward, all regional businesses will have the
opportunity to use both the George Wimpey and Laing Homes brands. This will allow better use of large
sites and provide greater returns on future land purchases. We have re-established an efﬁcient overhead
structure and product range which meet the needs of today’s market and planning regime and which
again give us lower build costs. The use of standard building elements and a full range of PPG3 preferred
house types are re-establishing our former time and cost advantages, whilst enabling us to meet local
planning requirements for variety of elevation without the requirement for bespoke developments. 
A stronger forward order book will help us manage price better. We have taken action to address the
problems which have affected our 2005 performance in the UK and we enter 2006 in good shape.
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review
6 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Reflecting on
progress
    US – Morrison Homes
In the US the demand for housing has grown signiﬁcantly in recent years, underpinned by the strength of
the economy and strong demographic trends. This has led to substantial price rises across many markets,
and in some affordability is stretched. However, interest rates remain low, the economy healthy and job
growth strong. With almost 1.3 million new households being formed each year for the next ﬁve years, half
as much again as over the past ﬁve years, the outlook for the US housing market is good.
In 2005, Morrison Homes delivered 4,921 homes and $308 million operating proﬁt, up from 2,638 homes
and just $53 million operating proﬁt in 2000. Today we operate in 14 markets compared to eight in 2000
and we have exited those markets where we were unable to generate adequate returns. In many of our
markets we have become a major player, most notably in Central Florida where we sold over 2,000 homes
in 2005. We have achieved this by focusing on markets where population and employment growth is
especially strong, expanding into neighbouring markets where our relationships and market knowledge
give us an advantage, and developing new more affordable products to broaden our market coverage.
By maintaining a high asset turn we have sustained a strong underlying cash ﬂow which has enabled us
to grow our landbank signiﬁcantly. Based on this ﬁnancial structure and strategy, our business plans will
double volume during the next ﬁve years, creating the potential for substantial further value creation.
Group
Over the past ﬁve years we have restructured our balance sheet, with a well balanced debt structure at
highly competitive terms and conditions. We have both stability and the ﬂexibility to pursue our strategic
choices. We took the necessary actions early to bring our Pension Fund deﬁcit under control, closing the
deﬁned beneﬁt scheme to new members and increasing employee contributions. We have established
ourselves as a leader in our industry in our approach to corporate governance and to the other areas
associated with corporate social responsibility. In an industry which has a material effect on those 
around us, this is becoming an increasing competitive advantage.
Today we behave as a single business. Our senior management teams understand the total business 
and each others’ pressures and needs. Internal communications have been improved and sharing of
knowledge and experience has become commonplace.
Conclusion 
It was always my plan to retire from this role after about ﬁve years and to ensure a smooth and effective
internal succession. I am therefore proud as well as delighted to be able to pass on to Pete Redfern, whose
revitalisation of our UK business demonstrates he has the energy and talent to take the Group forward to
the next stage.
There have been many across our businesses in the UK and US who have worked tirelessly through strong
and challenging markets, and through times of stability and of change. I would like to thank all those who
have been employees of George Wimpey whilst I have been Chief Executive for the tremendous support
they have given me. As I prepare to leave, I am conﬁdent I am handing over the Group in good shape and
into good hands. 
Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive
Today Morrison Homes operates 
in 14 markets compared to eight 
in 2000. In many of our markets 
we have become a major player.
In the US, our ﬁnancial structure and
strategy support our business plans
to double volume during the next
ﬁve years, creating the potential for
substantial further value creation.
Going forward, the Group is well
placed in its UK and US markets
which gives us both opportunities
and choices for future growth.
I am conﬁdent I am handing over
the Group in good shape and into
good hands. 
www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 7
Business Review
