 I am very proud to have been appointed Chief Executive of George Wimpey. This is a huge opportunity
for me and it gives me great pleasure to use my first Chief Executive’s Statement to set out how I intend
to take this business forward.
Being appointed from within the business has been a considerable advantage. I was part of the UK
management team responsible for merging Wimpey Homes and McLean Homes and for acquiring and
integrating McAlpine Homes and Laing Homes. I was a member of the Executive Committee that set the
growth plans for Morrison Homes. I understand the strengths and weaknesses of our businesses as well
as their history.
During the four months after it was announced that Peter Johnson would be standing down, I was able
to step back from the business and think very openly about what was right for the Company’s future.
Our goal is to ensure George Wimpey becomes the leading national housebuilder in the UK and in the
regional markets we choose in the US. Our strategy must, therefore, focus on the key areas of business
performance that will achieve the growth to deliver maximum value for our shareholders, for our
customers and for our other stakeholders – not just in the short term but consistently for many years to
come, regardless of market conditions.
There are already many things that we do extremely well. In both the UK and the US, the quality of
the homes we build is very high and we strive to deliver excellent levels of service for all our customers.
In the UK we were the only volume housebuilder to be awarded 4 stars in the two key categories of the
HBF Customer Satisfaction Survey. We also take our duty to behave as a responsible company very
seriously, seeking to meet the challenges of sustainable development and limit the impact of our
developments on the environment. George Wimpey was amongst the Global Top 100 Companies listed
by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors and Corporate Knights as a role model for the effectiveness of our
environmental, social and governance risk management.
However, there are areas of our business that we have to take forward to achieve our goal. We need to
deliver consistent and industry leading results so investors have confidence in George Wimpey as a long
term secure investment.
We need to create sustainable competitive advantage through the effectiveness and efficiency of:
• Our landbank
• Our cost base
• Our sales expertise
• Our people
Our businesses need to look further forward, to make decisions based not on what the outcome will
be tomorrow but what the impact will be for the long term.
Group Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement
8 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Delivering on promises
At the beginning of 2006 we
promised to:
Rebalance H1/H2
• First half 2006 growth
+20% Group revenue
+25% Group PBT
+28% UK completions
Deal with the causes of
underperformance in the UK
• H2 operating margin increased to 14.3%
• Record year end forward order book
Strengthen our landbank
• 14% growth in UK landbank to
57,999 plots
• Prudent action taken to create
US landbank appropriate for
current market conditions
WP100_p06-p11_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:18  Page 8 In financial terms we will deliver steady and consistent growth across our businesses. We will continue
to grow our total Group volumes, building on the record performance this year to retain our position as
one of the three largest UK listed housebuilders. Our businesses will strive to achieve the highest level of
operating profit in our sector as well as above average margins and return on capital. We will generate
cash and reuse our capital efficiently to deliver the steady and consistent growth of our business.
How will we measure our success? Throughout this report we have highlighted those measures, both
financial and non-financial, that we consider to be the Key Performance Indicators for the success of
our strategy.
To achieve our goal of delivering sustainable competitive advantage and superior returns for our
shareholders we have to run a highly efficient and effective business. We cannot afford to give away any
advantage in the way we buy land, manage costs or sell our products and we need to employ the best
people in our industry.
Our landbank
Land is our raw material and the aspect of our business that I feel most passionate about. Since 2001
we have been steadily increasing the number of plots in our short term landbank, particularly in the US
where we have achieved significant growth over the past five years. In the UK we have made a step
change in our land strategy, increasing our focus on buying land where we can add value, to reduce
the real cost of land going forward.
In the UK we are establishing a balanced landbank which will give each business a portfolio of land at
different stages in the planning system to allow them greater security and allow them to plan business
activity in advance. Ideally our landbank will comprise around 40% short term land and 30% of both
medium and long term land.
Since the end of 2003 we have increased focus on buying more medium term land, generally larger
pieces of land that will be developed within three to five years, where we can add value by taking the site
through the planning system ourselves. We are already seeing some of the benefits of these types of
acquisitions coming through as the plot cost in the landbank starts to reduce. At the end of 2006 the
average plot cost in the landbank was £47,300 compared with that on completions of £49,100.
During 2006 we made a significant shift in the delivery of strategic land into the landbank and were
successful in bringing 4,837 plots into the short term landbank. These plots will come through at a
significantly lower cost per plot, adding considerable value to the landbank.
In the US we have been reviewing our landbank in light of the change in market conditions. As our
average selling prices fell by over 10% during the year, and the short term outcome for the US housing
market remained uncertain, we took a very cautious approach to land purchases. During the second half
of the year we temporarily withdrew from land purchases in all markets except Texas, where conditions are
more stable. We have deliberately reduced our US landbank by 20% to 18,737 plots. However we
www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 9
Group Overview
Building a leading
position...
Reducing the
real cost of land
During 2006 we brought 4,837 plots
into our UK short term landbank
from our strategic landbank. We have
owned or held options on many of
these sites for more than ten years
as we have worked to bring them
through the planning system.
WP100_p06-p11_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:18  Page 9 still retain a strong land position with all the land required for 2007’s anticipated completions and the
majority of that required for 2008. This land is all held at values consistent with current market conditions.
We expect some further weakening of land prices and believe we will be able to secure land at lower cost
in the future.
Our cost base
We seek to leverage maximum benefit from our scale to become the lowest cost producer in our industry
and ensure we deliver maximum value from our developments. A thorough review of our supply chain
and a detailed benchmarking of costs in every area of our business in both the UK and the US will ensure
we achieve our goals. We have already targeted input cost
savings of £25 million in the UK and $20 million in the US in
2007. This puts us in a strong position from which to create
significant competitive advantage.
Our sales expertise
We are developing a structured and consistent sales process
to achieve maximum effectiveness and deliver maximum
value from our brands. We build high quality homes and our
strategy will ensure we have show areas that create maximum
impact and desirability for our products. Our sales executives
will be highly trained to sell the benefits of our homes and
efficient sales processes and procedures will ensure our
customers consistently receive the highest levels of
customer service.
Our people
Without the right people taking our business forward we
cannot achieve our goals and build the quality of business we
seek. Therefore we need to be able to attract and retain the
very best people in our industry. We must ensure we give the
people who work for us the right tools to allow them to
achieve the very best they can. We have to invest in training
and development and ensure we create the opportunities for
people to grow and succeed.
It is important for the ongoing success of our business that
we have clear succession plans. We want our future leaders
to come from within our business. We have established clear
training and development schemes across all areas of our
business so we can effectively manage and develop the many
talented people we employ.
Delivering our objectives
I am delighted to have the support of an experienced and
committed excecutive team. In the UK, Ian Sutcliffe is driving
through the improvement plans with great determination
and in the US, Steve Parker is ensuring Morrison Homes is well
positioned for growth when the market stabilises.
We have clear plans in place to strengthen and improve all
the key areas of our business and I am confident this puts us
in a strong position from which to deliver our strategic
objectives. I believe George Wimpey will become the leading
national housebuilder in the UK and in the regional markets
we choose in the US and I am proud to be leading the
Company to achieve this goal.
Peter Redfern Group Chief Executive
Group Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
10 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Setting the strategy
for George Wimpey
to become the
leading national
housebuilder in
the UK and in the
markets we choose
in the US
Land
Our objectives
• To reduce the real cost of land in
the landbank
• In the UK, to continue to strengthen
our landbank by adding more medium
and long term, value added plots
• In the US, to monitor land prices so we
can resume land acquisiton to support
further growth on terms reflecting
current market conditions
1 2
1
5,744
The total number of employees
working for George Wimpey and
Morrison Homes.
Our employees are our main asset -
we seek to attract and retain the
very best people in our industry.
We will invest in the training and
development of our employees
to ensure they have long and
rewarding careers with us.
WP100_p06-p11_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:18  Page 10 www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 11
...to deliver consistent
business growth
Sales
Our objectives
• To maximise the effciency and
effectiveness of our sales process to
deliver maximum value from our brands
• For all our customers to receive high
quality homes and excellent levels of
customer service
Costs
Our objectves
• To establish a framework for measuring
and challenging every cost in every area
• To develop an ongoing cost driven
mind set
• To achieve competitive advantage by
becoming the lowest cost producer in
the industry
People
Our objectives
• To attract and retain the very
best people in the UK and US
housebuilding industy
• To develop the future leaders of
our business from within
• To reduce staff turnover
1 4 1 6 1 8
23 4
Group Overview
WP100_p06-p11_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:18  Page 11 12 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
1
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
2006 2005 2004
Landbank size (plots)
50,985
57,999
51,119
Great Western Park, Didcot, Oxfordshire
A strategic site dating back to 1995, Great Western
Park, Didcot is made up of a ‘jigsaw’ of land interests
controlled by option agreements. George Wimpey
successfully overcame the challenges of the
planning system in 2006 to achieve outline planning
permission. The development is set to provide a
maximum of 3,300 homes (30% affordable) as well
as schools, shops, health care facilities and
community and neighbourhood centres.
City Vizion, Rodney Parade, Newport
George Wimpey is working with the National Assembly
for Wales to provide 480 homes (72 affordable) on this
mixed use urban development. We exchanged
contracts in October and submitted a detailed
planning application in November 2006 hoping to
start on site in mid 2007 with first legal completions
due in September 2008. Land costs, including flood
defence works to the Riverside Walk, are expected to
be 12% of expected average selling prices.
Land
The foundations for our future success
We are seeking to build a balanced landbank across the Group reflecting
the conditions of the markets in which we operate.
Land is our raw material. The mix of land we hold
in our landbank is vital to the future success of
our business.
In the UK, as part of our commitment to delivering
consistent growth in financial returns we made
a step change in our land strategy at the end of
2005. We have increased our focus on buying
land where we can add extra value and so reduce
the real cost of land for the future. Building and
maintaining a balanced landbank is key to
our strategy.
We are focusing on acquiring more long term and
medium term sites which we can promote through
the planning system. We will also seek to maintain
strong relationships with major land developers to
become preferred partners on large developments.
As part of our commitment to strengthen our
landbank we have established a new Land
Development Division responsible for the total UK
landbank and for managing the medium and long
term portfolio to deliver the agreed number of
plots into the short term landbank. We entered
2007 in a strong position with detailed planning
permission secured for 100% of our anticipated
volume for the year.
In the US, although we have temporarily stepped
back from land acquisition in all our weakening
markets, we have all the land required for our
anticipated volumes in 2007 and a significant
proportion for 2008 completions. We continue to
hold an appropriate landbank at realistic values
for current market conditions.
UK Housing KPI
WP100_p12-13_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:17  Page 12 www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 13
14%
“I am looking to
identify those
sites that will
create the best
value, securing
the future
performance of
our business.”
Ingrid Gelley
Land and Planning Director
George Wimpey East London
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
2006 2005 2004
Landbank size (plots)
23,514
18,737
21,579
growth in the UK
land bank in 2006
US Housing KPI
WP100_p12-13_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:17  Page 13 14 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“We are fully
committed to
continuously
driving down
costs and
maximising the
value gained
from every pound
we spend.”
Andy Graham
Cost Controller
George Wimpey UK
Renegotiating supplier contracts
In the US, all Divisions are actively seeking to reduce costs
by inviting suppliers to rebid for contracts on every development.
We are holding a combination of group and individual supplier
meetings to communicate this initiative and are renegotiating all
contracts as bids are received. Our initial focus has been on the
top eight to ten suppliers in each Division which account for 70%
of our costs. We are targeting savings of up to 5% for this initiative.
WP100_p14-15_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:16  Page 14 www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 15
2
Costs
Putting the spotlight on costs
We are seeking to reduce costs to more than offset the impact of
inflation and regulation changes.
We have a clear strategy to develop a sustainable
cost conscious culture so we continually challenge
all our processes, seeking to improve the
cost-value balance.
In the UK our highly structured approach to cost
management has resulted in over 70 locally staffed
initiatives branching from a central management
and control process. This structure allows regional
best practice processes to be used as national
benchmarks. We have identified priority areas, most
significantly direct selling expenses. Rapid progress is
coming through supplier consolidation and stronger
procurement and tendering methods. Early gains
have already helped to identify further opportunities
to make savings.
In the US a number of cost reduction initiatives are
underway to help offset the market impact. We are
renegotiating all supplier contracts, establishing
cost guideline principles for outside legal consultants
and evaluating and aggressively managing our first
year warranty claims to drive down costs. We will also
re-evaluate all housetypes to dramatically reduce the
total number offered across the company. A detailed
benchmarking process will measure the progress of
these initiatives so we can remain on track to meet
our targets.
2006 saw the appointment of a Head of Procurement
for George Wimpey UK, Peter Williams and a Director
of Purchasing for Morrison Homes, Jeff Allgood, who
will focus on developing a unified approach to all
purchasing across all business units. In the UK Andy
Graham was appointed Cost Controller to ensure we
actively drive down costs and to co-ordinate the cost
reduction programme.
70+
Cost saving
initiatives identified
across the UK
Developing national benchmarks
A new cost initiative targeting showhome
spending across the UK business aims to save
a minimum of £8 million by establishing a
measurable national benchmark for the fit out
and landscaping of showhomes. Low cost,
high quality methods, already operating in
some businesses form the basis of the
benchmark cost structure which will result
in an approximate cost reduction of 40%.
cost savings targeted in
the UK business in 2007
£25m
cost savings identified in
the US business in 2007
$20m
WP100_p14-15_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:16  Page 15 16 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
3
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
2006 2005 2004
Customer satisfaction (%)
86
89
88
Sales
Maximising the selling process
Across all our brands we are setting industry leading standards providing
excellence in sales presentation and management and customer service.
Our key sales strategy focuses on delivering
greater value from our core brands. Using sharper
brand positioning, we aim to build on the excellent
reputations we have in our markets to create
a consistent sense of desire for our homes.
The internet is increasingly recognised as a key
selling tool and we will continue to take full
advantage of this medium to promote our brands.
In 2006 we piloted mymorrisonhomes.com in
the US and a new and improved UK website was
introduced early in 2007. In addition we will make
greater use of popular industry websites to
promote our homes.
In the UK a full review of the effectiveness of
marketing spend was carried out in 2006 leading
to a number of new initiatives to create a
unified brand image. A standard sales office
and showhome will ensure we create maximum
impact for every customer and heighten the
desirability of our products.
Across our business we strive to provide excellent
levels of customer service and are committed to
improving levels of customer satisfaction. We aim
to build upon the innovative training carried out
throughout 2006 to further develop the customer
care and selling skills of all our sales staff to ensure
they are the best trained in the industry.
Innovative solutions
During 2006, our Houston Division
piloted mymorrisonhomes.com.
This new and interactive part of the
Morrison Homes’ website is designed
to guide customers through the
homebuying process and serve as
a communication tool once they
have moved into their new home.
Top class sales staff
A fresh new sales training experience was
introduced across the UK during 2006 to
build upon the success of our ‘Growing Wiser’
customer service campaign. The innovative
training sessions provided sales executives
with new tools and techniques to enhance
the effectiveness of their selling skills ensuring
we have the best sales teams in the industry.
UK Housing KPI
WP100_p16-17_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:15  Page 16 www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 17
“Each member of
my sales team is
highly passionate
about our homes.
This enthusiasm
is reflected in
every aspect
of the sales
process.”
Amy Haywood
VP Sales and Marketing
Morrison Homes Houston
Maximising our brand image
A national initiative is underway in the UK business that will not
only improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our advertising
but also create a strong, unified brand image. We have reduced
the number of agencies we use from 22 to five, all selected to offer
the best blend of service, creative flair and ability to deliver national
campaigns. Creative templates will be available for all businesses
to use maximising the value from the George Wimpey brand,
creating better quality advertising as well as reducing costs by
approximately 50%.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
2006 2005 2004
Customer satisfaction (%)
86
85
86
Top 5%
Morrison Homes
is rated among
the top 5% of all
homebuilders in
the US for customer
satisfaction.
US Housing KPI
WP100_p16-17_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:15  Page 17 18 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“Our employees are
key to our success.
I am committed
to developing
the talents of my
apprentices and
ensuring they receive
the highest standard
of skills training.”
Willie Burns
Production Director
George Wimpey East Scotland
of our UK employees say
they are proud to work
for George Wimpey.
73%
Nearly 40 years of service
Steve Farmer joined the company as a Junior Surveying Clerk
aged 16 and progressed his career through the commercial
department to become Regional Quantity Surveyor in 1991.
Following that he continued to broaden his experience
holding the posts of Production Director, Technical Director
and finally Commercial Director before being appointed
Managing Director for George Wimpey East Midlands at the
beginning of 2007.
0
5
10
15
20
25
2006 2005 2004 
 
Sta turnover (%)
 
24
22
24
UK Housing KPI
WP100_p18-19_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:15  Page 18 www.georgewimpeyplc.co.uk 19
Developing the skills for success
Morrison Academy was introduced in late 2006 as a programme focused
on management and leadership development. Under this umbrella, two
key initiatives are already underway. The Morrison Business Academy
targets members of senior management and aims to enhance higher
order business skills as well as improve overall leadership capability and
effectiveness. The Leadership Summit focuses on high potential talent
within the business and provides them with the skills required to move
into top operational leadership roles within 24 to 36 months.
4
People
Developing our future leaders
We aim to attract, develop and retain the very best people in the UK
and US housing industry.
Talent management is the key focus of our people
strategy. Throughout 2006 we have improved existing
practices and introduced new ones to support
leadership and skills development at all levels of
our organisation.
Our development programmes include the Henley
Leadership Programme, New Directors’ Programme,
Oxford MBA, Management Trainee Scheme and
Apprenticeships in the UK and the Morrison Business
Academy and Leadership Summit in the US. In the UK
George Wimpey’s Graduate Programme continues to
be a success and we are committed to doubling the
intake in 2007. Three of those recruited have already
achieved director status. A similar scheme entitled
‘Leadership in the Making’ is being set up in the US
with the first intake of graduates from the University
of Florida starting with Morrison Homes in September
this year.
Reduction of employee turnover is a business
priority and to assist in achieving this all managers are
completing recruitment skills training with performance
management and coaching skills being developed
across the businesses.
In order to facilitate succession planning and to assist
with training need analysis we have completed a
competency framework for all roles along with the
launch of an improved Performance Appraisal process.
The responses we receive from our Employee Surveys
in both the UK and US help us to formulate action plans
to support employee development at all levels of the
business ensuring our companies are great places
to work.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
 
45
 
2006 2005 2004 
 
Sta turnover (%)
 
33
29
40 of our UK business
unit heads were
promoted from
within the business.
71 %
US Housing KPI
WP100_p18-19_vAW1 tp.qxp:Layout 1  6/3/07  13:15  Page 19
