 2002 financial highlights
Sales for the year of £4.5 billion were 3% higher than the comparable
figure for 2001. The negative impact of currency translation was
£62 million and the net favourable impact of acquisitions and
divestments was £50 million.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was 3% higher at £315 million after charging GKN’s £11 million
share of redundancy and reorganisation costs in AgustaWestland.
The net impact of currency translation, acquisitions and divestments
was insignificant.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £230 million (2001 – £161 million).
Operating cash flow after capital expenditure and fixed asset
disposals was again strong at £174 million (2001 – £210 million).
Net debt reduced to £834 million at the end of 2002 from £885 million
a year earlier. Interest was covered 6.6 times (2001 – 5.0 times).
Divisional operating results are discussed in the Operating Review 
on pages 22 to 25. Overall Group performance is summarised in the
Financial Review on pages 36 to 39. 
Achievement
An uncertain outlook and variations in market conditions made 2002
a difficult year. Nonetheless, as our performance demonstrates, this
was a year of hard won achievement in uncertain times.
That achievement was built on the combination of strengths which
gives GKN a distinctive, competitive advantage. We are world leaders
with strong market positions in our key products and technologies.
We operate on a truly global basis across the Americas, Europe, Asia
Pacific and Japan and our customer base includes all of the world’s
leading automotive and aerospace companies. 
GKN businesses received more than 20 awards from those customers
in 2002 for achievement in areas such as quality and productivity.
This recognises the individual efforts and teamwork of the men 
and women who work for GKN. Meeting customer expectations is
their minimum level of performance – their goal is to exceed those
expectations. This is how we deliver sustainable performance and
how we create value for our shareholders.
During 2002 the GKN team responded effectively to a diverse range
of challenges. 
Automotive
In Western Europe – our largest automotive market – overall car and
light vehicle output fell by 2.1% and there were wide variations in
customer demand. Some of our driveline plants in Germany were
operating at the upper extent of their capacity to meet strong export
09 GKN plc 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Left to right: Kevin Smith, Chief Executive
GKN plc; Ian Griffiths, Managing Director
GKN Driveline; Neal Keating, Managing
Director Aerospace Services; Richard Clowes,
Managing Director Powder Metallurgy,
OffHighway and AutoComponents.
GKN IN 2002. A YEAR OF HARD WON
ACHIEVEMENT IN UNCERTAIN TIMES. sales by customers but our Italian operations were impacted by
the problems experienced by Fiat. Thisled to imbalances across our
European driveline plants with a consequent effect on operations.
North American car and light vehicle output rose by 6%. Again, 
the increase in the overall market masked a mixed performance by
manufacturers which led to variations in customer demand across
our North American automotive businesses.
A strategic priority was to continue our recovery actions within
Powder Metallurgy. During 2002 the business has shown significant
improvement. Hoeganaes, our metal powder production company,
continued to bring the new Gallatin plant in Tennessee, USA, up to
full production and it is operating well. GKN Sinter Metals, our powder
metal component manufacturer, is achieving strong performance in
Europe and recovery is underway in the US.
Looking ahead, our Powder Metallurgy research and development
is aimed at increasing the size and density of components which
could significantly enlarge the market for powder metal components.
Our confidence in the potential of Powder Metallurgy remains high.
The early promise of an upturn in the market for agricultural equipment
was short-lived and, following a customer’s decision to relocate
tractor production out of the UK, we initiated the closure of our 
small UK-based cab systems business. In AutoComponents we were
pleased to support Land Rover by taking over chassis production for
a key model after a supplier went into receivership.
Aerospace
In Aerospace we completed the restructuring initiated in 2001 to bring
our business into line with the depressed conditions prevailing in
the civil aerospace market. The impact of this restructuring fell most
heavily on our European plants which have a larger exposure to civil
aerospace than our US operations. The environment for the civil
structures business remains difficult and it may be some years before
the next cyclical upturn in demand for civil airliners. Meanwhile we
have won business on all of the Airbus range and are part of the
technology team working with Boeing on their next generation civil
aircraft. We are therefore well positioned to take advantage of the
recovery when it comes.
By contrast, demand for military aircraft is growing as the US and
Western Europe bring new fixed and rotary wing aircraft into service.
The combined market for fighters and helicopters is forecast to increase
by 50% to $30 billion during the period 2003 to 2007. This represents
a significant opportunity for our aerospace businesses.
AgustaWestland delivered another good performance in 2002 
thanks to a £4.7 billion order book. In early 2002 AgustaWestland
consolidated its UK operations on its Yeovil site in Somerset. The
10 GKN plc 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Left: Constant velocity jointed passenger 
car sideshaft produced by GKN Driveline. 
Right: Jet engine thrust reverser component
produced by GKN Aerospace Services. consolidation, which incurred redundancy and reorganisation costs
of £22 million, was in response to the completion of UK contracts
for the EH101 helicopter. GKN’s share of the costs was £11 million
which was charged to operating profit in the first half of 2002. 
Approximately 80% of our overall aerospace revenues derive from
the defence sector. In 2002 this mitigated the effects of the civil
downturn and will be a powerful advantage for the future.
Strategic development
Alongside our intense focus on the operational management of the
business we also advanced the strategic development of the Group. 
GKN Driveline is leveraging its leadership in constant velocity jointed
and torque systems components to build a strong presence in the
market for electronic torque management systems which enhance
vehicle traction, stability and safety. The acquisition of a stake 
in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo, a leading Japanese torque management
specialist, along with the option to take control was a step forward in
this process. GKN has a growing presence in Japan and places great
importance on its close relationships with Japanese manufacturers.
We see the combined markets of Asia Pacific as an area of strategic
growth. A particular feature of the region is the strong growth in
vehicle output in China where GKN has been present for 15 years.
GKN Aerospace Services has developed rapidly as an international
first tier supplier of composite and high performance alloy structures.
Boeing’s outsourcing of its St Louis structures plant to GKN had a
transformational impact which has helped the Group forge a productive
relationship with the world’s largest aerospace company and has given
us a presence on all of the new US military aircraft programmes. 
We will continue to remain alert to other outsourcing opportunities
which add value. Technology lies at the heart of Aerospace Services’
strategy and we have achieved considerable advances in new
composite materials which deliver performance within the military
market or cost and weight advantages for the civil sector. Today
GKN is the world’s largest independent supplier of composites.
The greatest single aerospace opportunity which emerged in 2002
was access to the US military helicopter market which is the world’s
largest. AgustaWestland and Lockheed Martin have agreed to jointly
produce and market a US version of the EH101 for four programmes
with a combined requirement of 200 aircraft over the next 10 years.
In Japan the EH101 is sole contender for the first stage of a Japanese
Self Defence Force helicopter acquisition programme.
People
I assumed the role of Chief Executive on 1 January 2003, succeeding
Marcus Beresford who had led GKN since the demerger of our
Industrial Services businesses. Under his leadership GKN moved
forward decisively and successfully as a global group focused on
automotive and aerospace. Our achievements in 2002 are due 
in no small part to Marcus’ strength as a leader and his support
as a colleague.
At GKN we are determined to build the Group by capitalising on our
technology and market positions. One of our other great strengths
is the spirit and enterprise of our people. It has long been my belief
that people look for more than a livelihood when they come to work.
Much has already been done to make working for GKN a rewarding
and interesting experience. We will continue to find new ways of
developing and stimulating the men and women who work in our
research and development centres, in our manufacturing plants, in
our sales teams and in all of the other functions which support and
help drive forward this great company.
Outlook
The outlook for the major automotive markets remains uncertain.
Some weakening is anticipated compared with 2002, particularly in
the first half, but currently there are no indications of a substantial
reduction in demand, notwithstanding anxieties about conflict in 
the Middle East.
The outlook for aerospace has more clarity, but with significant
contrasts in the prospects for civil and military. Civil markets look
certain to remain depressed until 2004 and beyond, while demand
for military aircraft, which accounts for some 80% of our aerospace
sales, is likely to grow.
With increasingly competitive markets, pricing pressure from customers
and additional pension costs, it is certain that 2003 will be another
challenging year. However, continuing benefit should be seen from
the ongoing recovery in Powder Metallurgy and the specific actions
we have already taken to reduce costs across the Group.
Our businesses are clearly focused with leading market positions
and considerable underlying strength. This, together with the
strategic initiatives we are pursuing, gives GKN a solid foundation 
for future growth.
11 GKN plc 2002
Kevin Smith 28 February 2003
