 GKN – A global engineering company
In August 2001 the demerger of our Industrial Services businesses
and their subsequent merger with Brambles Industries Limited was
completed. For the first time for at least three decades GKN’s business
now entirely comprises engineering activities and, given its international
spread, the description of GKN as a global engineering company is
exactly correct. 2002 has been the first full year when this has been
the appropriate description and the results, as described below, are
certainly an encouraging start for the Company as it embarks on the
next phase in its development.
Results
Pre-tax profits for the year were £267 million (2001 – £245 million) and
earnings per share were also higher at 25.2p (2001 – 24.0p). Cash
inflow from operating activities was £367 million (2001 – £452 million)
but with expenditure on capital projects and acquisitions below 
that of the previous year, net debt at £834 million was £51 million
lower than at the end of 2001. Interest cover improved to 6.6 times
(2001 – 5.0 times).
The Chief Executive in his review refers to the diverse range of challenges
that faced the management team in 2002. To have delivered results at
the top end of market expectations and well ahead of what both we and
the market expected at the start of last year is a creditable achievement.
Dividend
In my statement in last year’s annual report I said that the Board
expected to pursue a progressive dividend policy subject always to
prevailing economic conditions. That policy remains unchanged and,
although the global economic outlook is uncertain, the Board has
recommended that the dividend for 2002 should be increased from
11.0p last year (on a pro forma basis) to 11.3p thus maintaining its
value in real terms.
The Board
Marcus Beresford, who became a Director in 1992, retired at the end
of 2002. He was appointed Chief Executive in August 2001 following
the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses and has performed
a valuable role in the repositioning of GKN. The Board is most grateful
to him for his significant contribution to the Company both in his
earlier and more recent roles.
Marcus has been succeeded as Chief Executive by Kevin Smith, who
became a Director in 1999. Kevin was formerly Managing Director of
GKN Aerospace and has been succeeded in that position by Neal Keating
who joined the Board last August from Rockwell Collins in the US.
Sir John Parker retired from the Board as a non-executive Director 
in May 2002 having been appointed in 1993. As an independent
non-executive Director, John has made a major contribution to the
Board for which he fully deserves the thanks of his colleagues. In his
06 GKN plc 2002 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
ENHANCEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE
REMAINS THE TOP PRIORITY FOR THE BOARD. place Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the Board as a non-executive
Director in June 2002. Ian is a former Senior Vice President of Nissan
Motor Company Japan and brings to the Board considerable
international automotive experience.
Life President
The death of Lord Brookes in July 2002 at the age of 93 is recorded
with sadness. He joined the Board of GKN in 1953 and was Chairman
from 1965 until his retirement in 1974 when he became Life President.
Social responsibility
The Social Responsibility Review on pages 26 to 33 of the annual report
sets out our approach to sustainable development covering the range
of issues that are embraced by this heading. Pages 31 and 32 cover
the management of health and safety and set out some performance
figures which continue to show improvement. Subsequent pages
address environmental issues. The performance graphs here show 
a mixed pattern of success although the narrative offers some
explanations for what may appear to be a lack of progress in some
areas. Continuous improvement of environmental management is
an important issue for the Board and one particularly encouraging
statistic is the accreditation in 2002 of 50 sites to ISO 14001, 30 more
than in 2001.
Post-retirement benefits
In common with a number of long established UK companies, GKN’s
UK pension scheme has a large number of members, 54,000 out of
60,000, who are no longer in service. As described in the Financial
Review on page 39, based on FRS 17 (the accounting standard currently
scheduled to come into force in January 2005) the UK pension scheme
had a gross deficit at the end of 2002 of £551 million. After taking
into account overseas post-retirement schemes, deferred taxation
and net liabilities already provided for on the balance sheet, the
overall reduction in shareholders’ equity at the end of 2002 would have
been £527 million compared with £169 million at the end of 2001.
This adverse movement reflects the significant fall in world stock
markets in the last year together with the reduction in the discount
rate used to calculate the liabilities of the various schemes. As is
well known, the FRS 17 valuation reflects the position as at one date
and does not take account of the long-term nature of post-retirement
benefit schemes. As a result there can be considerable volatility from
year to year in the deficit and surplus figures.
Post-retirement benefit scheme deficits are obviously a matter of
concern to shareholders and can be a cause of considerable anxiety
to pension scheme members. It is therefore worth stating that the
Board fully recognises its responsibilities to those members and in
2003 plans to increase its contribution to the UK pension scheme 
to not less than £50 million. This is some 50% higher than the
contribution for 2002 and more than double the figure for 2001.
Corporate governance
The Board has practised high standards of corporate governance for
many years and fully recognises its importance. Pages 78 to 89 of the
annual report, which include a report on Directors’ remuneration,
describe GKN’s approach to thissubject. The Combined Code on
Corporate Governance is to be significantly amended following the
reports by Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness of non-executive
directors and Sir Robert Smith on audit committees. Both these reports
require detailed consideration by the Board which is now taking place. 
However, the Board believes that certain of the recommendations
of the Higgs Report should be reconsidered. Representations have
therefore been made to the Financial Reporting Council who have
responsibility for issuing the revised Combined Code in its final
form. The essence of those representations is to emphasise the point
that, while an increase in prescription will almost certainly involve
increased cost, it will not necessarily guarantee higher standards of
corporate governance. It is too easyto be compliant in terms of the
letter of the law but to be non-compliant in terms of its spirit. High
standards of corporate governance can only be guaranteed if, in
particular, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors see that
as an important objective, which is the case in GKN.
The future
GKN is one of only three companies that is a survivor of the original
FT 30 Share Index, first put together in the early 1930s. That survival
has been possible because of the Company’s ability to reinvent
itself to meet the challenges of new markets, new products, and 
new competition. To some extent 2002 was the start of a further
phase in GKN’s development, the foundations for which at this
time look very firm.
More immediately, the prospect of war in Iraq and heightened political
uncertainty in other parts of the world are making economic forecasts
even more difficult than usual. This leads to the risk that business
planning time horizons become increasingly short term. For GKN the
need to control costs and manage cash is as important today as it has
ever been, although this is complementary rather than an alternative
to the focus on longer-term strategy and the enhancement of
shareholder value. That remains the top priority for the Board.
07 GKN plc 2002
Sir David Lees 28 February 2003 08 GKN plc 2002
