 6 GKN plc 2003 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Results
The year 2003 was not an easy one for the Group with declines
in our major automotive markets exacerbated by continuous
downward pressure on prices and weaker demand in civil aerospace.
Nevertheless the results for 2003 were at the top end of market
expectations and thanks are due to all our people in GKN
responsible for this performance.
Pre-tax profits for the year before goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items were £246 million (2002 – 
£267 million) and earnings per share were 22.8p (2002 – 25.2p).
Cash inflow from operating activities was £287 million (2002 –
£361 million) and net debt at £793 million was £41 million lower than
at the end of 2002. Interest cover was 5.4 times (2002 – 6.6 times).
Dividend
Subject to prevailing economic conditions the Board is committed 
to a progressive dividend policy. The Board therefore recommends
that a final dividend of 7.8p should be paid on 21 May 2004 bringing 
the total for the year to 11.6p (2002 – 11.3p). The dividend of 11.6p
is covered 2.0 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items (2002 – 2.2 times).
Post-retirement benefits
Last year we reported that the UK pension scheme, which has
60,000 members with 90% no longer in service, had a gross deficit
of £551 million. This figure was based on FRS 17, the accounting
standard that was then due to come into force on 1 January 2005. 
At the end of 2003, on the same basis the gross deficit was similar
at £549 million.
The Board fully recognises its responsibilities to pension scheme
members irrespective of whether they are current or former employees.
It therefore accepts that the substantial costs involved in funding
the UK pension fund deficit have to be charged against profits. 
The figures below set out the impact on pre-tax profits before
goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items
for the last three years.
Pre-tax profits
Pre-taxprofits UKpension before UK
as defined fund deficit pension fund 
above charge deficit charge
£m £m £m
2001 (pro forma) 245 – 245
2002 267 6 273
2003 246 23 269
In 2004 the UK pension fund deficit charge is expected to be
£39 million.
Social responsibility
We firmly believe that a positive attitude to social responsibility
is a sine qua non of a successful company. Reference has already
been made to our attitude to post-retirement benefits but the 
quest for continuous improvement in the management of health,
safety and environmental issues is an important goal for the Board
which regularly reviews performance. Pages 38 to 41 of this annual
report set out our achievements in the last year and they make
encouraging reading. Our two main measures of safety, namely the
accident frequency rate and the accident severity rate, show 2003 to
be the best ever year for the Group with a significant improvement
over 2002. Our environmental performance in 2003 also shows
an improvement with waste generation and both energy and water
consumption in relation to sales all lower than a year ago. Further
progress was made in terms of ISO 14001 accreditation which 
hasnow been achieved in 59 plants compared with 50 in 2002.
The Board
The last 12 months has seen a number of actual and prospective
changes to the Board. More than two years ago we announced that
Iwould be stepping down as Chairman at the AGM in May 2004 
and a year ago under the leadership of Sarah Hogg we set in train 
a rigorous process to select my successor in which external advisers
played a part. Roy Brown was duly selected and an announcement
to that effect was made in November of last year. Roy joined the
Board in 1996 as a non-executive Director and has accumulated
considerable experience of GKN. The Board has made a wise 
choice and on a personal basis I wish Roy every success.
On 1 December 2003 Sarah Hogg, who also joined the Board in
1996, was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent
Director. Sarah brings extensive expertise to this role. She has given
me, as Chairman, considerable support and will undoubtedly do the
same for my successor. 
Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch both joined the Board 
as non-executive Directors in 2003 and their different international
experience will add value in our boardroom. Christopher was the
British Ambassador in Washington from 1997 until 2003 and prior
to that from 1994 to 1996 he was Chief Press Secretary to the 
Prime Minister. He is very well acquainted with both the British 
and American political and business scene. Helmut was formerly a
Management Board member of VEBA AG (now E.ON AG). He serves
as a Supervisory Board member and a non-executive Director on a
number of other German and UK company Boards. 
GKN’s strategy, which is focused on technology, 
our global customers and tight cash management,
will continue to serve us well. 7 GKN plc 2003
Klaus Murmann retires as a non-executive Director at the AGM in
May. Klaus joined the Board in 1995 and has brought to it a wealth
of international business knowledge. He has given generously of
his time for which his colleaguesare most appreciative.
Corporate governance
A year ago the report by Sir Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness
of non-executive Directors had been published but the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance had not then been revised. When
the revised Combined Code finally emerged it reflected some of
the main representations made by GKN and other companies
and although the revised Code only comes into effect for UK listed
companies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November
2003 (2004 in the case of GKN) we are substantially compliant
with its requirements. Pages 74 to 79 of this report address the
positioning of GKN with regard to the new Combined Code. 
It is worth commenting that five years ago three pages in the 
annual report were devoted to corporate governance. In this report,
and in smaller print, six pages are devoted to the subject. Does this
suggest in any way that standards of corporate governance in GKN
are twice as high now as they were then? Emphatically the answer 
is no. The Board of GKN has maintained high standards of corporate
governance for a long time and quantity of information should not
be confused with quality of execution. Of course if shareholders
require increasing amounts of information on corporate governance
it is incumbent upon the Board to provide it but at a time when
regulation has become a growth industry of its own it is perhaps
worth reflecting on two points neither of which is new. Firstly, that
the provision of more and more information almost certainly incurs
actual and opportunity costs for both the provider and the recipient.
It can therefore only be justified if it creates real value. Secondly,
strong adherence to the spirit of corporate governance is infinitely
more important than apparent compliance with its law.
The future
Twenty years ago, in 1984, the FTSE 100 Index was launched at
which point the industrial manufacturing sector accounted for 28 of
the 100 constituent companies. Today there are only 41 companies
who are still in the FTSE 100 Index who were part of the original 100
of which only six are in the industrial manufacturing sector. GKN is
one of them.
So how has GKN managed to keep its place in the premier league?
The answer almost certainly lies in the successful pursuit of a strategy
that places at its leading edge the importance of managing within
the core competences of its executive team, the development of
technology, the establishment of a focused global company serving
global customers and the tight management of cash. That strategy
has served us well for many years and will continue to do so.
Sixteen annual reports ago I ended my first Chairman’s statement
with a paragraph which said: “Looking further ahead, we have 
a clear strategy in place, a management team well capable of
executing it, and an international spread of manufacturing and
service businesses that give us a sound base for further growth.”
That paragraph is equally appropriate as an ending to my last
Chairman’s statement for I am as optimistic today about the future
prospects for GKN as I was then.
Sir David Lees
27 February 2004
