 GKN’s results in 2003, delivered in some difficult markets, 
confirm our long-standing reputation for consistently high levels
of operational and financial management as well as our success in
building strong positions in automotive and aerospace markets.
Our principal challenge in 2003 was declining light vehicle production
in North America, Western Europe and Japan and depressed conditions
in civil aerospace.
However, we were able to take full advantage of the growth in automotive
output in emerging markets and the continued strength of military
aerospace programmes. Our Driveline business and AgustaWestland
both delivered strong performances at the top end of our expectations.
We have also been successful in winning substantial new business
from our global customer base and there was strong order intake
across the entire Group. In Automotive, Driveline won more than 
70% of all available new constant velocity joint (CVJ) programmes,
Sinter Metals won US$150 million of new orders and in Aerospace
our technologyhas won us positions on all the important new aircraft
under development in Europe and the US.
Underlying profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items, was down on last year. The 8% reduction was
largely caused by increased UK pension deficit charges of £17 million,
without which we would have been close to last year.
GKN’s recognition of its pension fund obligations saw the Group
contribute £44 million of cash in 2003 towards the deficit alone. 
In spite of that our cash performance was encouraging. Despite
increased pension contributions we have reduced net debt for the
second successive year.
Developments in 2003
GKN Driveline has positioned itself to take advantage of the growth
in emerging markets. Through a strategic programme of investment
and partnership it has established market positions in Asia Pacific
and Latin America which are considerably in excess of its 42% global
market share in CVJ products.
Our long-term presence in China and India – where vehicle output
grew by 37% and 26% respectively in 2003 – has allowed us to take
full advantage of the economic expansion in these markets.
Meanwhile GKN Aerospace Services, through a series of targeted
outsourcing agreements and acquisitions, has grown to become a
keysupplier of aircraft structures and components to virtually all of
the USA’s frontline military aircraft.
There were a number of significant developments in 2003:
> following the acquisition of Pilkington Aerospace, GKN Aerospace
Services became the world’s No. 1 supplier of transparencies to
the military market and No. 2 supplier to the civil market;
> the Japan Defence Agency selected the AgustaWestland EH101 for
an initial requirement for 14 aircraft. This is a major breakthrough
into a market dominated for more than 40 years by US aircraft;
> GKN Driveline completed two new joint ventures in Thailand with
Toyoda Machine Works (TMW) of Japan to supply driveshafts for 
a new vehicle to be produced by Toyota in the region. GKN has
well-established relationships with TMW and Toyota;
> Hoeganaes, GKN’s metal powder production business, established
its first full manufacturing base in Europe when it acquired Ductil
Iron Powder of Romania; and
> GKN completed the sale of its 29% stake in Alvis plc to BAE Systems
for £73 million in cash. This transaction, which marked GKN’s exit
from the armoured vehicle business waswell received by investors.
Accelerating the development of technology
The leadership team which is now taking GKN forward believes in the
strategic potential of our technology. During 2003 a team of senior
engineering executives from across the Group identified product and
process technologies which have the greatest potential to expand
our available markets. 
This accelerated development of our technology is focused primarily
on the performance and packaging of torque systems and geared
components, the achievement of significantly higher levels of density
and surface finishing on a wider range of powder metal parts and
the application of highly automated processes to the production of
composite aircraft structures. On pages 12 to 15 we look in some
detail at how technology is shaping the future of our Automotive
and Aerospace activities.
Other measures of performance
Ultimately our performance is judged on financial and commercial
criteria and our ability to deliver value to our shareholders. But there
are other measures which we also value. 
The well-being and safety at work of GKN people is of paramount
concern. Safety is measured on the basis of accident frequency,
accident severity and serious injuries incurred. During the last five
years all three measures have reduced by between one third and
8 GKN plc 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
We have been successful in winning new business
from our global customer base and there was strong
order intake across the entire Group. 9 GKN plc 2003
one half. GKN’s performance compares well with industry averages
in the UK, Germany and the US but our ultimate goal is to create a
working environment with zero preventable accidents. On pages 38
and 39 we look in more detail at our performance in this critical area.
During the last 12 months many of our businesses have again received
a number of awards from customersfor our performance in areas
such as quality, delivery, service and technology demonstrating
GKN’s ranking as a world-class supplier. During 2003 GKN Driveline
received its second Global Contribution Award from Toyota – the
only non-Japanese supplier to have ever done so. DaimlerChrysler
selected GKN Driveline and GKN Sinter Metals to jointly share its
Global Power Train Supplier Award and GKN Driveline received a
global award from General Motors for continuous improvement.
There were also further awards from Mazda, Honda and Nissan.
Throughout the year thousands of GKN people once more gave freely
of their time to support their local communities and we take pride in
personal thanks from individuals and in more formal civic recognition
of our contribution. 
GKN people have always been conscious that they are expected not
only to deliver short-term performance but to build a business which
can be sustained by future generations. We see no conflict between
our commercial imperatives and our wider social responsibilities
about which we explain more on pages 32 to 41.
During 2003 I visited 38 GKN plants and locations in the Americas,
Europe and Asia Pacific. Without exception I found a tremendous
sense of pride and belief in GKN and a deep-seated optimism that
whatever the difficulties we face in our markets this Group has the
strength to overcome any challenge. The GKN leadership team places
enormous value on the spirit of our people and the contribution which
they can make to the future success and prosperity of the Group. 
We readily acknowledge our gratitude to them.
Kevin Smith
Chief Executive 10 GKN plc 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Automotive
Global light vehicle production is expected to grow at slightly above
its historical rate over the next five years. We expect production to
increase at a compound annual rate of about 3.3% between 2003
and 2008. Over that period, the largest economies of Western Europe,
North America and Japan will account for a relatively small proportion
of that growth in light vehicle production. Most of the growth will
come from the developing economiesof South America, Eastern
Europe and Asia Pacific.
GKN Driveline is well positioned to serve its customers in these 
fast-growing regions. The division has long-standing and strong
relationships with all the key Japanese vehicle manufacturers,
relationships which began through support of Japanese transplant
operations in North America and Western Europe and have now been
extended to include operations in Japan itself. In 2003, Driveline’s
share of the Japanese market for CVJs reached 17.5% – up sharply
from only 3.3% five years ago.
GKN Driveline is operating in a global market which is becoming
increasingly competitive and subject to pricing pressure as vehicle
manufacturers (VMs) look to suppliers to reduce prices while
improving technology, service and quality. While the number and
variety of cars offered for sale has increased, the consolidation of
VMshas created larger and more effective purchasing groups which
leverage their scale and scope. We estimate that the top six VM
groups now account for more than 75% of global vehicle production.
The issues which we face in Powder Metallurgy are more challenging
in the short term. 
Hoeganaes continues to perform well and in 2003, as referred to
earlier, acquired a powder production plant in Romania – its first
production facility in Europe. This will enhance our competitive
position in Europe and broaden our international production base. 
In Europe GKN Sinter Metals has a track record of good performance
and continued new programme wins will sustain future growth. 
In 2003 the restructuring of our UK Sinter Metals operations was
completed and work began on a new central European research 
and technology centre which is due for completion in 2004.
In the US GKN Sinter Metals has a high exposure to the North American
automotive market which saw vehicle output fall by 3.5% in 2003.
The impact of this market weakness was exacerbated for GKN 
Sinter Metals by a combined 6% decline in output by its three
largest customers.
Recovery actions in the US enabled us to win new programmes for
2006 and beyond with an annual sales value of US$80 million. The
business has been able to improve operating efficiency but more
remains to be done and the market weakness we encountered has
impaired our ability to deliver an improved financial performance.
We continue to be confident that the powder metallurgy sector offers
significant opportunities for growth as VMscapitalise on the lower
cost production processes for sintered components to substitute
them for cast or forged components and as our technology creates
new market opportunities for sintered components. 
Our smaller automotive businesses faced mixed conditions.
OffHighway Systems saw sales fall but by less than the overall
decline in the agricultural and construction equipment market. 
This continues to be a robust business which has proved its ability
time and again to weather difficult market conditions. In the UK
our AutoStructures business successfully completed pre-production
work on the chassis for a new Land Rover model. Emitec continued
to grow in Europe but this was offset by reduced sales in the US.
Aerospace
Within the aerospace sector GKN operates as an international first
tier supplier through its wholly-owned business GKN Aerospace
Services and as a prime contractor and systems integrator through
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy. 
Defence contracts account for approximately 80% of our overall
Aerospace revenues. This is not only a particular advantage at
a time when the civil aircraft market is in the grip of a protracted
downturn but also offers long-term advantages. Military procurement
programmes are not closely linked to the cyclicality of the civil
economy and offer predictable, long-term revenue streams. Military
work on current US programmes isworth an estimated US$6 billion
to GKN Aerospace Services. AgustaWestland, at the end of 2003,
had a £4.4 billion forward order book following a £1.2 billion order
intake during the year from its worldwide customers.
Our successful management of the outsourcing by Boeing Integrated
Defense Systems (IDS) of its military aircraft structures business in
St Louis, Missouri was enhanced by applying our previous experience
within GKN Driveline. As a result of our performance, Boeing IDS
awarded GKN life-of-programme contracts on the F-15, F/A-18 and
C-17 worth more than US$850 million.
AgustaWestland continued to perform strongly in 2003 making a
substantial contribution to our results. At the heart of AgustaWestland
is the EH101, the most modern medium-lift helicopter in the world.
It is this aircraft which has taken us into the Japanese defence
market following the selection of 14 EH101 aircraft by the Japan
Defence Agency and there is the potential for further orders. This
is a significant breakthrough for Japan had previously acquired 
its major front line helicopters from the US. Other countries in Asia
Pacific could well be influenced by Japan’s selection of the EH101.
In the US there is an opportunity for a US variant of the EH101,
spread across five programmes, for a total of 360 new helicopters.
AgustaWestland has teamed with Lockheed Martin as US prime
contractor and Bell Helicopters as the US air vehicle manufacturer.
AgustaWestland’s performance to date has met all our expectations
and it has the scale of operations and the product range to compete
very effectively in all its markets.
Shaping up for the future – a new direction for Driveline
GKN Driveline has been a consistently high-performing business.
During 2003 and early 2004, we undertook a full review of our
current Driveline manufacturing and business footprint to assess
its future suitability for our key global markets. As a result of
this strategic review we have now decided to embark on a 11 GKN plc 2003
programme of reorganisation which we are confident will provide a
platform to significantly improve the quality of earnings in our core
Driveline business and position us well to serve the future needs
of our customers.
Our major markets of Western Europe and North America have
provided little overall market growth in recent years with intense
competition amongst manufacturers putting increased pressure 
on pricing and productivity. In contrast, the emerging markets in
South America, Asia and Eastern Europe are providing strong growth 
in automotive production and we have continued to successfully
build our presence in all three regions, which also offer potential
to provide much lower cost sources of supply.
To take advantage of this opportunity we have developed a global
manufacturing strategy for our CVJ business which today represents
75% of our Driveline sales. Over the next three years we will migrate
about 20% of our global production from high cost to low cost
economies so that by 2007 over 50% of our CVJ manufacture will
be sourced from low cost locations. This will require a significant
realignment of our manufacturing network.
Detailed plans are being prepared to deploy this strategy and will
be announced in due course. We expect that the exceptional cash
costs of restructuring in Driveline will average around £35 million
per year over the next three years, with additional non-cash costs
being likely in 2004. Total exceptional costs, which should not
exceed £150 million, will be finalised as the detailed plans are
approved. Any additional capital expenditure required should not
increase the Group’s overall level of expenditure above the normal
level of 110-120% of depreciation. 
Although there will be little benefit from this strategy in 2004, by
2007 we estimate full year profit benefits from completion of this
exceptional restructuring to be in the region of £40 million a year.
Supporting US Sinter Metals’ recovery, realigning our cost base
Although our success in winning new orders in US Sinter Metals
should lead to a resumption of growth in 2006, this recovery is
at an early stage. We intend to support recovery and underpin its
base by further reducing costs and focusing activities on our areas
of technological advantage. Additional restructuring is therefore
expected in 2004. Detailed plans are being developed and will
be announced in due course. 
In addition, across the Group as a whole we intend to realign
overhead expenditure to better reflect the future shape of our
business and reduce costs.
The cash costs of restructuring US Sinter Metals and realigning 
our cost base across the Group are expected to total some 
£30-£40 million, falling largely in the next 12 months. The impact
of these actions on the carrying value of related assets will be
revisited as the detailed plans are developed. 
In summary, by investing in reshaping Driveline, by supporting 
US Sinter Metals’ recovery and by realigning our cost base, we 
will build a stronger business in a world which still offers excellent
opportunities for growth. The measures outlined above will leave
GKN well positioned to take full advantage of these opportunities. 
In total we estimate the exceptional cash cost of restructuring over
the next three years to be some £140 million, with some £90 million
likely to be charged to operating profit in 2004, together with any
non-cash write-offs required as the detailed plans are developed.
Our initial scenario planning indicates that such charges might be 
in the region of £60-£80 million, broadly shared equally between
the two projects. The cash flow impact in 2004 should be some 
£50 million. Benefits in 2004 will be small, but will rise incrementally
to an estimated £60 million a year by 2007 giving an overall cash
payback of just over three years. The maximum cumulative cash
outlay is likely to peak at around £80 million in 2005, well within
the funding capacity of the Group.
Outlook
In contrast to the declines of recent years there is now a more
positive outlook for our major markets. Automotive production 
is forecast to increase slightly in North America whilst in Europe
volumes are expected to be level or marginally ahead of 2003.
Continuing strong demand is expected in most of Asia Pacific. 
In aerospace, military demand looks set to remain strong with 
civil demand at its cyclical low. 
However, competitive pressures in all our markets are expected 
to remain intense, exacerbated by increasing pressure from rising
world raw material prices. The Group’s global footprint means
that the proportion of sales exported from one currency region 
to another is relatively small but the fall in the US dollar will affect
approximately £150 million of exports from Europe to the US as the
hedging cover now in place is at lower average rates than in 2003. 
Against that background, the Group expects to make further
improvements in its underlying operational performance although 
the overall result will be impacted by the charge relating to UK
pension deficit costs increasing from £23 million to £40 million, 
as previously indicated. 
Looking further ahead, GKN will continue to focus on its core strengths:
technology, exceptional customer service and performance and, with
the benefits of the strategic initiatives outlined above, the Group
will continue to move forward with confidence.
Kevin Smith 
27 February 2004
