 2 GKN plc 2003 GKN AUTOMOTIVE AT A GLANCE
GKN is one of very few truly global suppliers of automotive components and systems. More than 50 GKN engineering and manufacturing
facilities in Japan, Asia Pacific, India, South Africa, Europe and the Americas support all of the world’s leading manufacturers of cars, light
trucks and off-highway vehicles. 
GKN Driveline is the world’s No. 1 supplier of constant velocity jointed sideshafts (CVJs). This business has achieved substantial growth in
recent years and will continue to take advantage of growth in emerging markets and higher CVJ content on four wheel drive and all wheel
drive vehicles. These account for approximately 25% of all the light vehicles produced in North America. 
A further area of growth is driveline-related torque systems products. GKN Driveline has moved decisively to build on its knowledge and
product base by further developing its presence within the market for advanced torque management devices and systems which enhance
vehicles’ traction, stability and safety. 
GKN is the No. 1 supplier of powder metal parts and is the No. 1 producer of metal powder in the US. GKN’s capability in the technology
and production of powder metal parts and their raw material is unique among major companies. 
GKN is a major European and North American supplier of components and systems for agricultural and off-highway equipment. It is also a
leading supplier of automotive structural presswork and cylinder liners for automotive, industrial and marine applications. Emitec, a 50:50
joint venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader in metallic substrates for catalytic converters. 
Automotive
Powder metal
components
Components produced by
GKN Sinter Metals can be up to
30% cheaper than components
produced by conventional
casting or forging. Improvements
in density and surface finishing
will continue to expand the global
market for these components.
Metal powder
GKN is a world leader in 
Powder Metallurgy. Metal
powder, produced by GKN
company Hoeganaes in the 
US and in Europe, is the raw
material used by GKN Sinter
Metals to create a wide range 
of components primarily for
automotive customers.
Electronic Torque
Manager 
GKN Driveline’s most advanced
product which uses software,
electronics and electro-mechanical
devices to manage torque flow
proactively within a vehicle’s
driveline system.
Power Take Off (PTO)
shaft
GKN OffHighway Systems is the
world leader in the engineering
and manufacture of PTOs which
use power from an agricultural
vehicle such as a tractor to
power ancillary equipment.
Super LSD
Torque sensing device – one of
the products which are part of
GKN’s development of a torque
systems business.
CVJ
GKN has a 42% global market
share for CVJ sideshafts –
components fitted to 85% 
of light vehicles. 3 GKN plc 2003 GKN AEROSPACE AT A GLANCE
GKN has a significant presence in the world of aerospace. Approximately 80% of its overall aerospace revenuesare derived from the 
defence sector and this focus on defence is a significant strength, particularly at a time when there is a downturn in civil aerospace but
growth in military aerospace. 
Today, GKN operates as an international first tier supplier through GKN Aerospace and as a helicopter prime contractor through AgustaWestland. 
GKN Aerospace, which has engineering and manufacturing operations in Australia, Germany, the UK, US and Mexico, is the world’s No. 1
independent supplier of advanced composite structures. It is also a leading international supplier of high-performance alloy structures. 
Its customers include prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing and Lockheed Martin and jet engine manufacturers such as Rolls-Royce 
and Pratt & Whitney. 
GKN supplies structures for US military aircraft such as the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F/A-22 Raptor, C-17 Globemaster 111 and F-35 JSF.
Within the civil sector GKN is a supplier on all Airbus programmes including the A318/319/320 and 321 single aisle family, the A340
500/600 long-range aircraft and the A380.
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy, has one of the broadest and most balanced military and civil product
portfolios in the industry. It is a 32% partner in the European NH90 helicopter programme and has teamed with Lockheed Martin and Bell
to address a number of major US military programmes for medium-lift helicopters. 
Aerospace
Composite structure
Manufactured from uni-
directional carbon fibre tape,
this blade-stiffened, integrally
moulded structure is used on
the flap skin of the Airbus A340
long-range aircraft.
Aluminium component
High-speed machining, centred at GKN Aerospace’s St Louis plant in the 
US, is capable of high repeatability production of complex components
in a range of materials at competitive cost. Pictured here is a section of
a structural component for the F/A-22 fighter.
A320 acoustic panel
GKN Aerospace possesses a unique capability to produce complex-shaped
panels based on welded titanium and alloy steel honeycomb. One of the
primary uses of these panels is to suppress jet engine noise levels.
Helicopters
The Lynx helicopter produced
by AgustaWestland is one of
the world’s most successful
maritime rotorcraft with more
than 400 in service worldwide.
Pictured is the radar and opto-
electronic sensor system on 
a Royal Navy Mk8 Lynx.
The EH101 medium-lift
helicopter is the flagship of
AgustaWestland and the most
modern aircraft of its type.
Pictured here is a detail of the
tailrotor assembly on the EH101.
The Lynx and EH101 exemplify
AgustaWestland’s capability as
a prime contractor and systems
integrator.
Jet engine casing
GKN Aerospace Services is
a world leader in the use of
chemical milling. This is a section
of an integrally stiffened titanium
engine casing. Chemical milling
provides lower weight and 
cost compared to traditional
fabrication methods.
