 4 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
AUTOMOTIVE
GKN operates at the highest levels of the global automotive
supply chain providing a range of geared and mechanical systems
and devices – some with electronic control technologies – to
the world’s manufacturers of cars, light trucks and construction
and agricultural vehicles.
GKN’s position as one of the world’s leading Tier One suppliers
is supported by more than 50 engineering and manufacturing
facilities in the Americas, Europe, Africa, India, Asia Pacific
and Japan.
GKN is the world leader in constant velocity jointed (CVJ)
sideshafts – devices which transmit torque to a vehicle’s
wheels and which were fitted to approximately 50 million 
of all the light vehicles produced in the world in 2004. 
GKN has around 42% of the global market for CVJ sideshafts.
During 2004 GKN launched its third generation CVJs which 
can deliver more torque in a smaller, lighter package – a
critical benefit to vehicle designers.
In recent years GKN has developed an electronics expertise.
This has been fused with its long-standing engineering capability
to develop a new generation of torque management devices
which are becoming increasingly important as a means to
improve vehicle traction, stability and comfort.
GKN is also the world’s No. 1 supplier of powder metal
parts and the No. 1 producer of metal powder in the US. 
GKN’s capability in the technology and production of
powder metal parts and their raw material is unique 
among major companies.
GKN is a major European and North American supplier of
components and systems for construction and agricultural
vehicles and equipment and is also a leading supplier of
structural presswork and cylinder liners for automotive,
industrial and marine applications. Emitec, a 50:50 joint
venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader in
metallic substrates for catalytic converters. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 5
AEROSPACE
Virtually all of the latest Western military aircraft flying today and
many of the world’s most successful airliners embody technology
from GKN either in their airframes or engines or both. 
And in every important US and European military and civil
aircraft currently under development, GKN technology is making
an important contribution to the achievement of their ultimate
performance goals.
GKN Aerospace operates from engineering and production
facilities in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Its mission
is to supply engineering design services and high-performance
composite and metallic alloy structures as well as a range of
specialist products such as engine nacelles and canopy systems
to prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing, Lockheed Martin
and Sikorsky and the jet engine manufacturers General Electric,
Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
GKN supplies structures, propulsion systems and special
products to a wide range of military aircraft such as the 
F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F/A-22 Raptor, F-15K Eagle, C-17
Globemaster 111, C-130J Hercules, Eurofighter Typhoon and
the Blackhawk, Merlin and Lynx helicopters. Within the civil
sector it is also a supplier on all Airbus programmes including
the A318/319/320 single aisle family, the A330 and A340
500/600 long-range aircraft and new A380 ‘Super Jumbo’.
GKN is also involved in developing and producing structures
and systems for the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter,
Airbus A400M military airlifter and the Boeing 787 jetliner, 
all of which are currently under development and due to 
enter service by the end of the decade.
