 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Transforming GKN
The strategic development of GKN gathered pace in 2004.
The disposal of our share of AgustaWestland transformed our balance
sheet, taking control of Tochigi Fuji Sangyo of Japan accelerated our
move into higher-value automotive systems, we set in train a global plan 
to deploy more production assets in high-growth, low-cost economies
and we won positions on the world’s major new aircraft programmes.
The AgustaWestland effect
When we announced the agreement to sell our 50% stake in
AgustaWestland to Finmeccanica, we described the £1.063 billion
consideration, which represents 1.2 times AgustaWestland’s 2003 
sales, as ‘the right price at the right time’. GKN secured a strong
contribution from helicopters over the 10 years since the acquisition 
of Westland Group plc and the price realised for our shareholding 
gave full recognition to the potential of that business.
The balance sheet strength we have secured will provide the resources
necessary for the next stages of development of our wholly-owned
Automotive and Aerospace businesses. 
High-growth, low-cost economies
GKN has an enviable record of penetrating new global markets. Economic
expansion in the emerging economies provides a major opportunity,
particularly as we are able to build on an existing presence – GKN has
been in China for 16 years, India for almost a century and Brazil for 
32 years. We are also established in Poland and Slovenia.
South America, Asia Pacific and Eastern Europe now account for 26% 
of global light vehicle production. These markets are forecast to grow at
almost four times the rate of those in North America, Western Europe and
Japan. They also offer a low cost base to enhance our competitiveness.
In 2004 we announced our intention to migrate a further 20% of our CVJ
production to these low-cost, high-growth economies so that by 2007
more than 50% of our production will take place there. We expect the
benefits to be substantial. We are also pursuing the restructuring of our
North American Powder Metallurgy operations to return the business to
an adequate level of profitability.
The creation of technology
Four years ago GKN identified the emerging demand for a new generation
of automotive driveline components to manage the efficient distribution
of power and torque in increasingly powerful vehicles. Since then we have
built a world-leading portfolio of mechanical and electronic products.
2004 saw new vehicles come to market with innovative GKN products
and systems including the Cadillac SRX/STS and Land Rover Discovery.
We also won positions on important new vehicles still under development.
There has also been a strong focus on aerospace technology, particularly
in composite structures which offer significant strength and weight benefits.
In 2004 we achieved a number of firsts. These included the first production
components from new composite manufacturing processes for the Airbus
A380 and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. We won the
order for the world’s first composite primary wing structures for a large
aircraft, the Airbus A400M military airlifter, and the Boeing 787 will fly
with the world’s first all-composite engine containment casing from GKN
on the General Electric GEnx turbofan.
Our ability to produce complex composite structures has attracted funding
from the UK Department of Trade & Industry and South East Development
Agency, who are helping establish GKN’s Advanced Composite Facility
in the UK. The facility will be operational this year and will accelerate our
progress in pioneering aerospace composite applications. We value the
Government’s support.
The operating and financial review on pages 21 to 30 details the
significant challenges we faced during the year from rising raw material
and energy costs. The creditable results we achieved in 2004 owe much
to the skill, commitment, dedication and innovation of GKN people
around the globe. My thanks go to them all.
Outlook
In Automotive the major European and North American markets are
forecast to remain relatively static in 2005. Growth in the developing
markets is expected to continue, although at a slightly lower level than
2004. Overall, global automotive demand is anticipated to maintain its
steady 2-3% annual growth. In Aerospace prospects are improving, with
rising civil aircraft production and a robust US military market. Our
OffHighway markets overall look set to show modest growth with steady
US demand and a slight increase in Europe.
Against this background we expect our Automotive businesses to
improve underlying sales and operating performance although high
worldwide raw material prices, particularly for steel, present a challenge
to 2005 Automotive profitability. Renegotiated annual supply contracts
will add some £30 million to costs in 2005. In addition we are exposed
to fluctuations in the scrap steel price which is surcharged in the
industry. In the first quarter this surcharge will have some impact on
costs, although if scrap were to stay at the current somewhat reduced
price levels, little further impact would be felt in the rest of the year.
We continue to negotiate for recovery of this cost increase with our
customers and are having some success, although the full quantum of
recovery will not be known for several months. Our focus on productivity
improvement will continue.
In Aerospace trading is expected to continue to improve in 2005 and
OffHighway’s performance should also show progress.
The benefits of our leading technology, new products and strong
presence in emerging markets, combined with the benefits of the
restructuring activities underway, leave the Group’s continuing
businesses well positioned for growth.
In addition, the transformation of the Group which started in 2004 will
continue in 2005. The £1 billion sale proceeds from AgustaWestland
have significantly strengthened the balance sheet and provide a solid
platform for accelerated growth in profits and earnings from their 
new, re-based levels. The Group is well placed to take advantage of
opportunities in all its markets and looks to the future with confidence.
Kevin Smith
23 February 2005
