 6 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Performance
GKN achieved a number of successes in 2004 – some of them in the face
of powerful headwinds. 
The successful disposal of our 50% stake in AgustaWestland realised
substantial value for the Group and its shareholders and will allow us
to increase and accelerate the level of investment in our wholly-owned
businesses. To provide a more immediate return to shareholders from
this transaction we initiated a buyback of shares into treasury of up to
£100 million.
During 2004 we increased our Automotive revenues in largely flat
markets. This hard won achievement was, however, frustrated by
an unprecedented rise in raw material prices, particularly steel.
Our continuing Aerospace businesses increased sales revenues over 
the previous year and built a strong pipeline of future business thanks
to new, competitive technologies.
Meanwhile, recognition of our pension obligations resulted in a charge
of £38 million (2003 – £23 million) to our profit and loss account in
respect of the UK pension fund deficit. We also used proceeds from 
the AgustaWestland transaction to make an additional £100 million
contribution towards this deficit.
However, as this annual report shows, GKN has taken robust operational
measures to alleviate the impact of these headwinds, as well as the effect
of adverse currency movements, and we have taken important steps in
the long-term strategic development of the Group.
Results
Pre-tax profits for the year before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items were £221 million (2003 – £246 million) and earnings per share on
the same basis were 21.3p (2003 – 22.8p). Net funds at the end of the year
were £65 million compared with debt of £793 million at the end of 2003.
Interest cover was 5.7 times (2003 – 5.4). On a statutory basis profit before
tax was £629 million (2003 – £173 million) reflecting the exceptional net
credit which arose largely from the divestment of the Group’s share of
AgustaWestland offset by restructuring and impairment charges.
Dividend
Subject to prevailing economic conditions the Board is committed to 
a progressive dividend policy and recommends that a final dividend 
of 8.0p be paid on 10 May 2005 bringing the total for the year to 11.9p
(2003 – 11.6p). The dividend of 11.9p is covered 1.8 times by earnings
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (2003 – 2.0 times).
The Board
I was honoured to become Chairman of GKN in May following the
retirement of Sir David Lees. During my nine years on the Board of GKN 
I have come to respect the Group’s inherent strength. This is due in no
small measure to David’s distinguished leadership over many years.
Our Board continues to evolve. Klaus Murmann retired in May as a 
non-executive Director, a position he had held since 1995. In June 
Dick Etches and Neal Keating left the service of the Group. Dick had 
been Human Resources Director and Neal, Managing Director Aerospace
Services. We thank each of them for their contribution. In December 
John Sheldrick, Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, joined 
as a non-executive Director bringing considerable financial experience.
Corporate social responsibility
GKN has been active for more than 150 years in what is now commonly
termed ‘social responsibility’ but our best practice continues to develop.
This issue is reviewed regularly by the Board and in 2004 we established
an executive sub-committee on governance and risk which has completed
an unprecedented survey of our global social responsibility behaviour and
practice in more than 100 locations. The results will be used to refine and
improve the way we interact with our employees, customers, suppliers
and communities.
The future
The year 2004 was a difficult one for the Group and the outlook promises
another demanding year in 2005. However, we have considerable strengths
and market leadership positions and the Board is confident that GKN will
continue to deliver long-term shareholder value.
Roy Brown
23 February 2005
RoyBrown, Chairman (left) with Kevin Smith, Chief Executive
