 Roy Brown Chairman (right) with 
Kevin Smith Chief Executive
10 GKN plc
Annual Report 2005 GKN plc 11
Annual Report 2005
Chairman’s statement
> Performance
During the past four years we have systematically evolved GKN into a highly focused and technology
led engineering group with strong leadership positions in Automotive, OffHighway and Aerospace.
In 2005, through restructuring and investment, we accelerated our strategy to build a GKN which,
while maintaining its focus, will be even more global than before. Today our production capacity
is increasing in Mexico, Brazil, Poland, Slovenia, India and China where we are building on a strong
presence established over a number of years. 
Our businesses overall have made progress in both sales and trading proﬁt. Despite ﬂat production
of light vehicles in North America and a slight decline in Western Europe – our two largest
automotive markets – global light vehicle production increased by 3% as a result of growth in
Brazil, India and China. However, we still had to deal with continued high input costs. 
Whilst Automotive proﬁts were down, the transformation of our Aerospace business allowed us to
take advantage of both continuing strong defence expenditure and an upturn in the civil market which
led to substantially higher Aerospace proﬁts. OffHighway also showed continuing improvement.
Following receipt, some 15 months ago, of the proceeds of the sale of our 50% shareholding in
AgustaWestland we have been examining acquisition opportunities rigorously. We have not set
ourselves any arbitrary deadlines but will use our balance sheet strength when we ﬁnd opportunities
which we believe can deliver real, long-term shareholder value.
In common with other UK pension funds, GKN’s UK scheme has been adversely impacted by
declining real interest rates and increased longevity. While recognising the long-term nature of
pension liabilities, we believe this deﬁcit must be addressed and therefore are making an
immediate contribution of £200 million into the scheme. 
> Results
Post-tax earnings for the year before restructuring charges, proﬁts on sale of businesses and
changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments were £163 million compared with
£172 million in 2004 and earnings per share on the same basis were 22.1p compared with 23.1p
in 2004. For continuing operations trading proﬁt rose to £228 million from £214 million in 2004.
Net debt at the end of the year was £65 million compared with net funds of £65 million at the end
of 2004.
> Dividend
Subject to prevailing economic conditions the Board is committed to a progressive dividend policy
and recommends that a ﬁnal dividend of 8.2p be paid on 17 May 2006 bringing the total dividend
for the year to 12.2p (2004 – 11.9p). The dividend is covered 1.8 times (2004 – 1.9 times) by
earnings before the impact of restructuring and impairment charges, proﬁts on the sale of
businesses and changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments.
> The Board
There were a number of changes in the composition of the Board. Following completion of nine
years’ service as a non-executive Director, Baroness Hogg ceased to be the Senior Independent
Director with effect from 31 December 2005 and has been succeeded in that role by Sir Ian Gibson.
Sarah continues as Deputy Chairman until her retirement from the Board at the AGM on 12 May
2006. Sir Peter Williams has taken over from Sarah as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and John Sheldrick has succeeded Sir Peter as Chairman of the Audit Committee, both with effect
from 1 January 2006.
Richard Clowes, Group Managing Director Corporate Development, left the Group on 31 December
2005 and Ian Grifﬁths, Group Managing Director Automotive, resigned from the Group on 3 February
2006 to take up a senior external position. Both Richard and Ian served GKN over a considerable
number of years and we thank each of them for their very valuable contribution.
