 Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 5
Committed to growth
GKN has made excellent progress in 2007.
Strong contributions from Driveline and Aerospace helped
the Group deliver another year of increased sales and a
significant improvement in profits and earnings per share.
Our strategic restructuring programme has been
concluded, repositioning our Automotive and Powder
Metallurgy businesses to take advantage of high growth
markets and enabling them to compete from a lower
cost base.
Exceptional levels of new business have been secured
across the Group, giving us continuing confidence in our
ability to increase market shares and grow revenues.
GKN technology has contributed to a number of customer
product breakthroughs in the automotive, off-highway
and aerospace sectors. They will provide value to GKN
shareholders for many years to come.
And GKN people all over the globe have gone that extra
mile to support a major social responsibility programme
— GKN Mission Everest.
Dedicated to perform
Our Driveline businesses made a strong recovery from a
difficult 2006 second half.
Global automotive production grew by 5.3% in 2007 and
our restructured and revitalised Driveshaft business was
able to take full advantage of its excellent market
positioning. Sales and profits improved markedly and the
division won over 80% of global driveshaft business
sourced externally, with the level in the emerging markets
of Asia Pacific and South America even higher.
Demand for our torque products was also strong,
particularly in the growing Asian sports utility vehicle
market and a number of important high volume
programmes were won in Asia, Europe and North America.
Powder Metallurgy suffered from higher input costs and
significantly lower North American demand for
components for large V8 engines. Two planned plant
closures completed in the second half created operational
disruption which also impacted profitability. So, although
sales revenues showed growth, profits were slightly down.
With restructuring now complete, strong order books and
a range of new product launches under way, we expect
Powder Metallurgy to resume progress in 2008.
Off-highway markets have been favourable with solid
demand for agricultural machinery in both Europe and
North America. Demand for heavy construction and
mining equipment more than offset a weakening in the
North American light construction segment. The Rockford
Powertrain business made an excellent first full year
contribution and the Liuzhou wheels acquisition in China,
which completed in November 2006, has integrated well.
Aerospace has again performed strongly and, with some
contribution from acquisitions, produced double digit
sales and profits growth. Order books were also
strengthened in buoyant commercial markets, with Boeing
and Airbus having a record sales year, and the US defence
markets also providing much new opportunity. Additional
business was gained on existing programmes and
significant work packages won on a number of new
programmes. The most notable new programme wins
included the aft fuselage structure for the new Sikorsky
CH-53K military helicopter and blended winglets for
retrofit to Boeing 767 and 737 airliners to aid improved
fuel efficiency. The Teleflex acquisition which completed in
June strengthened GKN’s position in the engine
component sector and secured access to ‘hot section
components’ for the first time.
In December we were pleased to be selected by Airbus as
the preferred partner for the acquisition of the wing
component and sub-assembly facility on their Filton site,
including the potential award of major design and
manufacturing packages for the Airbus A350 XWB wing.
There is much work to be done over the coming months to
turn the selection into definitive contractual agreements
— we are, however, extremely excited by the opportunity
offered by this major strategic partnership with Airbus.
Chief Executive’s Statement
Sir Kevin Smith
Chief Executive
Chairman’s Statement
Chief Executive’s Statement
The Group delivered another year of increased
sales and a signiﬁcant improvement in proﬁts
and earnings per share.
www.gkn.com A passion to innovate
Our continued success can only be assured through the
sustained development of innovative technologies
and products.
This year sees the introduction into the marketplace of
GKN’s highly acclaimed countertrack™ constant velocity
joints which are fitted to a number of new vehicles being
launched during 2008. These joints have set new
standards for size, weight and efficiency, supporting
vehicle manufacturers’ drive for lower emissions.
GKN’s technologies for the 21st century are being applied
across the vehicle spectrum. The new Tata Nano, launched
in India this year, is the world’s lowest cost car with a price
tag equivalent to $2,500. Our new driveshaft for low cost
vehicles is a key component within the new car.
Meanwhile, BMW are launching the X6, a new premium
vehicle which utilises GKN’s electronic torque vectoring
technology — the most advanced traction control system
in the world. 
In Powder Metallurgy our technology enabled the launch
of a world first high performance manual transmission
gear application.
In OffHighway we have developed the Hydromech gearbox
which improves the efficiency of combine harvesters. The
new gearbox has been introduced on a range of European
harvesters.
And in Aerospace we have validated, through our work on
the Airbus A400M, the design and manufacture of
composites for large aircraft primary wing structures. This
work will impact directly on the next generation of
airliners. Our work on composites will also help improve
the fuel efficiency of new jet engines. As part of an EU
programme we have also developed production processes
for composite products which do not require high
temperature curing ovens.
The development of technologies in tune with the times is
at the heart of how we will create a sustainable growth
path for GKN.
United by common goals
Within GKN we expect much from our people. Our leaders
are tasked with growing the business on a global basis,
focusing on delivering value to our customers and
managing teams often spread across continents. They
work in a business environment which is highly
competitive and typified by complex supply chains and
constantly developing technologies.
At plant level, supervisors and operators are at the front
line of our implementation of a Lean Enterprise culture
where continuous improvement and innovation is
becoming routine.
GKN people, however, know that they can count on high
levels of support both in helping the Group achieve its
strategic objectives and in developing their own abilities
and aspirations.
A key feature which has emerged during recent years is
what we call The GKN Way. At its heart is a common
language and a common set of values, metrics,
management processes and a core principle that
development opportunities will be available for all GKN
employees. In 2007, as part of an intensive programme of
employee development, we completed a training
programme for 1,000 leaders in the principles and
practices of Lean Enterprise as part of our ongoing
training in continuous improvement techniques.
GKN people are no longer separated by geographic,
business or market boundaries — increasingly they have 
come to feel and to act as one team. 
Pledged to help those in need
This has been the year of GKN Mission Everest when we
supported adventurer Bear Grylls in his successful quest
to fly a powered paraglider higher than Mount Everest. 
GKN people have a tradition of supporting their
communities but we used GKN Mission Everest to inspire
them to do even more. In return, we pledged to donate
funds to children’s charities in Africa. 
6 GKN plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s Statement
continued
The development of innovative technologies is 
at the heart of how we will create a sustainable
growth path for GKN. During 2007 our people contributed $1.7 million of extra
support to their local communities in the Americas,
Europe and Asia Pacific. The Group gave $500,000 to
African charities in 2007 and in 2008 we will donate a
further $500,000.
Leading a team which has taken such a compassionate
challenge to its heart has been deeply moving. Thousands
of GKN people across the world have proven themselves
to be truly extraordinary and I am proud of them all. 
Outlook
The outlook for our major markets remains positive
despite continuing uncertainty around the global
economy.
Automotive production in the emerging markets of Asia,
Eastern Europe and Latin America is projected to
experience continuing strong growth. North American and
Western European markets are set to soften leaving
overall growth in global production at around 3%.
OffHighway and Aerospace markets are forecast to 
remain strong.
Raw material costs are expected to remain both volatile and
high, with scrap steel costs, which have risen sharply in
recent weeks, presenting a potential headwind for the year.
Conversely, if sterling were to remain at current levels
against major international currencies there would be a
significant translational benefit to Group results.
Against this background, the Group expects to see further
solid improvement in its Automotive and Powder
Metallurgy businesses and continued strong growth in
OffHighway and Aerospace.
Our strategic restructuring is complete, leaving Driveline
and Powder Metallurgy with excellent global positioning
and a stable operating footprint from which to deliver
their strong order backlogs.
OffHighway order books are at record levels and its end
markets remain robust.
Aerospace order books continue to be very strong and the
full year impact of the Teleflex acquisition will support
further good progress in 2008.
The Filton acquisition, which will significantly 
strengthen our Aerospace business, should complete
around mid year.
Overall we expect 2008 to be another year of progress 
and growth for GKN.
Sir Kevin Smith  
Chief Executive
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 7
The Group expects to see further solid
improvement in its Automotive and Powder
Metallurgy businesses and continued strong 
growth in OffHighway and Aerospace.
Chief Executive’s Statement
GKN Mission Everest
2007 saw the launch of GKN Mission Everest 
— a powerful symbol of the Group’s ambition,
innovation and teamwork.
The daring feat to fly a paraglider higher than Mount
Everest was successfully completed on 14 May and
acted as the focal point of a global challenge for GKN
employees to increase their charitable activities.
The response has been extraordinary. Across the world and in all
manner of ways GKN employees have taken up the challenge to
do even more for their local communities and to bring new hope
to some of Africa’s most deprived children.
. . . find out more page 46
www.gkn.com
