 I am pleased to be able to report that our results for the
year demonstrate a further increase in profitability and
earnings per share with particularly strong contributions
from our two largest businesses, Driveline and Aerospace.
Consistent with our objective of increasing the dividend
progressively in line with the long term trend in earnings,
your Board recommends that the dividend for 2007
should be increased from 12.8p to 13.5p per share.
GKN continued to make significant progress against its
strategic objectives in 2007. Whilst the economic
uncertainty that characterised the end of 2007 looks set
to continue, I believe GKN is as well placed as it can be to
withstand the effects of this and to continue on its course
to provide long term shareholder value. Our Aerospace
order book is strong. Despite the declining rates of growth
in some of our Automotive markets, there remain
considerable growth opportunities particularly in the
emerging markets of Asia Pacific, South America and
Eastern Europe. GKN’s foresight in reorganising its asset
base and making long term investment in these regions
leaves the Group well positioned to take advantage of this
growth. In addition, product developments in torque
technology and off-highway driveline systems together
with a strong order book at Sinter Metals provide
opportunities for further progress.
Equally, the economic conditions should not prevent
continuing growth through careful strategic acquisitions.
An example of this is the proposed acquisition of the
Airbus wing component and sub-assembly plant at Filton
in the UK for which we were selected as preferred partner
by Airbus in the closing weeks of 2007, and which would
substantially increase the size of our Aerospace business.
GKN has always valued having a strong Board of
Directors. In this context it was particularly pleasing to
announce in 2007 the appointment of three new executive
Directors: Marcus Bryson as Chief Executive Aerospace,
Andrew Reynolds Smith as Chief Executive Powder
Metallurgy, OffHighway and Industrial Services, and Bill
Seeger as Finance Director. All of these were internal
appointments and demonstrate the continuing strength of
our management succession planning. Also during the
year Nigel Stein, formerly Finance Director, was
appointed Chief Executive Automotive. All major business
areas are now represented on the Board, with a good
balance being maintained between non-executive and
executive Directors.
I am delighted to welcome Richard Parry-Jones to the
Board as a non-executive Director with effect from
1 March 2008. Richard retired from Ford Motor Company
at the end of 2007, after 38 years’ service, where he was
responsible for global production development and group
technology. I am sure he will make a significant
contribution to GKN’s future development.
Sir Ian Gibson retired from the Board at the end of 2007.
Sir Ian had been a non-executive Director of the Company
for six years, for two of which he was Senior Independent
Director. Sir Ian made an invaluable contribution to the
strategic development of the Group during a time of
significant change. We thank him for his wise counsel and
support and wish him well in the future. I am pleased that
Sir Peter Williams has taken over the role of Senior
Independent Director.
We remain committed to maintaining a high quality,
balanced Board of Directors at the head of your Company.
This commitment to quality in people extends throughout
the organisation and I am particularly pleased with the
progress that has been made towards ensuring that GKN
employees worldwide feel they are part of a single family
with common, well understood goals and values. This is
an important ingredient in our strategy to deliver long
term shareholder value and ensure the continued
sustainability of our business.
I share Sir Kevin’s pride in the achievements of our
employees worldwide who, in 2007, did something truly
extraordinary and contributed an additional $1.7 million
to their local communities. The project was called GKN
Mission Everest and is described on pages 46 to 47.
I urge you to read about it.
I am conscious that this is the 249th year since our
inception — a remarkable achievement by anybody’s
standards. In the true spirit of sustainability, I see no
reason why we should not now have an eye to the next
250 years. For the immediate future, however, based on
our performance in 2007, the continuing competitiveness
of our product technologies and the strength of our
market positions, I am confident that GKN has the
resilience to continue to make progress even in the
current challenging economic conditions.
Roy Brown
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
4 GKN plc Annual Report 2007
Roy Brown
Chairman
