 2 GKN plc Annual Report 2007
GKN at a Glance
Page 18
Share of 2007 Group Sales*
Principal Operations
Major Markets
 GKN Driveline designs and manufactures automotive
driveline components and systems for light vehicles,
including driveshafts, geared components and torque
management devices. The European IDS business provides 
a range of components to the passenger vehicle aftermarket,
and repairs and replaces heavy duty propshafts.
 The business, including joint ventures, operates from 
49 locations in over 30 countries.
 Other Automotive companies manufacture structural
components, engine cylinder liners and substrates for
catalytic converters for light vehicle and truck applications
through subsidiaries and joint ventures in the UK,
Germany, the US, China and India.
£2,281m
55%
Page 24
 GKN Sinter Metals uses powdered metals to
manufacture precision automotive components for
engines, transmissions, and body and chassis
applications. It also produces a range of components for
industrial and consumer applications, including power
tools, bearings, white goods and garden equipment. The
business operates from 30 locations in Western Europe,
North and South America, India, China and South Africa.
 Hoeganaes produces metal powders, largely steel
based, used in the manufacture of sintered components.
Manufacturing takes place in North America, where it is
the largest producer of ferrous metal powder, with a
growing presence in Eastern Europe.
£602m
15%
Automotive Powder Metallurgy
Sales* by Region of Origin
and Employees
 GKN Driveline is the global leader in the production of
constant velocity jointed (CVJ) components for light vehicle
drivelines. It produces some 113 million CVJs annually
representing approximately 40% of global production.
Its share of global demand for premium propshafts is
around 20% and it is one of the world’s leading suppliers of
traction control devices. The customer base is wide and
includes all the world’s major motor manufacturing groups.
 IDS has a wide range of aftermarket customers and
Other Automotive sells mainly to European and US vehicle
manufacturers and engine makers.
 GKN Sinter Metals is the world’s largest manufacturer of
sintered components with an estimated 15% global market
share, almost twice that of its nearest competitor.
Approximately 80% of its sales are to automotive customers,
with around 35% either directly or indirectly to the North
American operations of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler
and the balance to a wide range of European automotive and
other industrial customers.
 Hoeganaes has an estimated 50% share of the metal
powder market in North America. Some 50% of its sales are
to our own sintering business with the balance to other 
US, European and Asian customers.
01 02
01 Constant velocity jointed sideshaft
02 Variable valve timing rotor
03 Off-highway driveshaft
04 Blended winglet
 Rest of the World
 Americas
 Europe
Total Employees — 23,600 Sales
£519m (23%)
£518m (23%)
£1,244m (54%)
 Rest of the World
 Americas
 Europe
Total Employees — 6,800 Sales
£29m (5%)
£311m (52%)
£262m (43%)
* Including share of joint ventures Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 3
Page 28
£419m
10%
Page 32
 GKN Aerospace is a leading supplier of airframe and
engine structures, components, assemblies and
engineering services to aircraft prime contractors. It offers
design and manufacturing capabilities in aerostructures
(fuselage, wing and flight control surface assemblies and
components), propulsion systems (engine and nacelle
components and assemblies), and special products
(including transparencies and protection systems).
 The business operates through 20 manufacturing
facilities around the world, mainly in North America 
and Europe, assisted by a network of design and 
support facilities.
£820m
20%
OffHighway Aerospace
A leading engineering group operating in more 
than 30 countries and employing over 42,000
people in its subsidiary and joint venture companies.
This is GKN.
 GKN OffHighway designs, manufactures and distributes
a wide range of products and systems for the agricultural,
construction and mining, and industrial machinery
markets. The business supplies, on a global basis, a
unique portfolio of products for off-highway vehicles
including agricultural and torsion axles, wheels, power
take-off shafts, gearboxes and tractor attachment systems.
 A service and distribution business supplies GKN’s and
other manufacturers’ products to aftermarket wholesalers
and distributors, principally within Europe.
 The business operates from 24 locations in 13 countries
across the Americas, Europe and Asia.
 The major markets in which GKN OffHighway operates
are global agricultural (63% of sales), construction and
mining equipment (23%) and industrial equipment (14%).
GKN OffHighway is the leading global supplier of 
off-highway wheels, agricultural power take-off shafts,
and high speed shafts for construction equipment.
 A first tier supplier to the world’s leading 
manufacturers of agricultural and construction and mining
equipment, 50% of its sales are to 15 global customers
including John Deere, Caterpillar, Case New Holland,
CLAAS and AGCO. The remaining sales are to some 3,000
independent customers.
 GKN Aerospace serves all major airframe and engine
manufacturers, with particular emphasis on composite
technologies and lightweight highly stressed metallic
components. It is a leader in the design and manufacture
of advanced composites, transparencies and complex
metal structures.
 Approximately 58% of sales are to the defence 
market and 42% to the civil market. The top three
customers, which account for some 50% of sales, are
Boeing, United Technologies and EADS. 15% of total sales
are derived from aftermarket services.
03 04
 Rest of the World
 Americas
 Europe
Total Employees — 7,700 Sales
 Rest of the World
 Americas
 Europe
Total Employees — 4,000 Sales
£13m (3%)
£110m (26%)
£296m (71%)
£15m (2%)
£537m (65%)
£268m (33%)
Automotive
Powder Metallurgy
OffHighway
Aerospace
GKN at a Glance
www.gkn.com
