 “GKN’s excellent position
in global markets across
its businesses, a strong
focus on technology, together
with a culture of operational
excellence, provide a solid
platform from which to continue
our strategic progress.”
Chairman’s statement ."#
A year of
strong progress
In my first Chairman’s statement, I am pleased to report that 2012
was a year of strong progress for GKN from both an operational
and a strategic perspective.
Results 
We delivered an excellent set of results with management sales
increasing to £6.9 billion, reflecting organic sales growth of 6%.
This was a very pleasing achievement in a year which saw
uncertainty in many of our markets. Management profit before tax
for the year increased 19% to £497 million and we continued to
make progress on improving the Group trading margin which
increased to 8.1%. Management earnings per share were 26.5p,
an increase of 17% over the prior year. In light of this strong
performance and our confidence in the Group’s prospects, the
Board is recommending to shareholders an increased final
dividend of 4.8p per share which will bring the dividend for the
year to 7 .2p.  .0N
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Our people
Such a strong financial performance would not have been
possible without the hard work and commitment of our
48,000 employees worldwide. On behalf of the Board, I would
like to thank them all for their contribution during 2012.
The Board
The Board’s commitment to high standards of corporate
governance is unwavering and our procedures are described
in some detail in the corporate governance report on pages
48 to 54. A key governance issue is ensuring that the Board
comprises a diverse group of strong individuals who
collectively bring a mix of skills, experience and knowledge
to the boardroom. I believe that these criteria are clearly
reflected in the composition of the GKN Board which we
strengthened further at the beginning of 2013 with the
appointment of Angus Cockburn, Finance Director of Aggreko
plc, as a non-executive Director. Angus’ experience of
international business and his financial background will
provide significant expertise both to the Board and to the
Audit Committee.
John Sheldrick, who has been a non-executive Director of the
Company since December 2004 and Chairman of the Audit
Committee since January 2006, is retiring from the Board at
the annual general meeting on 2 May 2013. On behalf of the
Board I would like to take this opportunity to thank John for
his contribution to the Board since 2004 and in particular his
exemplary chairmanship of the Audit Committee. We were
pleased to announce the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-
Page as Chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed John.
Shonaid has been a non-executive Director since June 2010
and her strong financial experience and knowledge of the
Group make her ideally suited for the role.
With a strong executive team and a good balance of executive
and non-executive knowledge and experience on the Board,
I am firmly of the view that we will continue to build on the
success of the Company and make further progress on our
strategic objectives to the advantage of all our stakeholders.
Finally on Board matters, Roy Brown retired at the AGM in
May after 16 years as a non-executive Director, eight of those
as Chairman of the Company. I would like to take this
opportunity to thank him formally for both his commitment
and his contribution to the Group over that period. I was
delighted to succeed Roy as Chairman at such an exciting
time in the Group’s development. 
Strategic progress
During the year we made significant progress towards our
strategic objectives. On 1 October we completed the acquisition
of Volvo Aero, the aero engine division of AB Volvo, a leading
designer and producer of aero engine components.
Combining the lightweight metallic technologies of this new
business with GKN’s existing expertise in composites has
created an aerospace business which is more balanced
between structures and engine products and which is well
positioned to benefit from the expected long term growth in
the civil aerospace market.
In GKN Driveline, following the acquisition in 2011 of Getrag
Driveline Products, our all-wheel drive (AWD) business is now
fully integrated into our global driveline systems platform; our
objective is to exploit our technology and leadership position
to drive further growth in AWD.
Our Powder Metallurgy business has also made good progress
in expanding Design for PM applications with significant
potential for future growth.
Building on the 2011 acquisition of Stromag, GKN Land
Systems has broadened its capability in power management
applications.
The future
GKN’s excellent position in global markets across its
businesses, a strong focus on technology, together with a
culture of operational excellence, provide a solid platform
from which to continue our strategic progress and deliver long
term shareholder value. I look forward to the future with
confidence. 
Mike Turner CBE
Chairman
