 Chief Executive’s review .0O
A strong platform
for the future
Our position as a key supplier to the aerospace sector was further
enhanced by the acquisition of Volvo Aero, on 1 October 2012.
This business, now renamed GKN Aerospace Engine Systems,
brings technology and engineering that complements GKN’s greater
operational expertise, creating a strong force in the market,
augmenting our position as a leading Tier 1 aerostructures supplier.
The reaction to the acquisition from customers and employees
has been very positive and integration is proceeding well.
Although the Group’s 2012 results have been negatively impacted
by some one-time costs and charges associated with the
acquisition, we expect to see Engine Systems make a good
contribution to Group profits in 2013.
In GKN, our drive for operational excellence extends beyond just
our financial results. A major focus of the year was driving further
improvement in Group health and safety performance by rolling
out our thinkSAFE! programme to all locations in the Group. It was
pleasing to see the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
improving, although a fatal injury to a subcontractor at one of our
sites in China reminds us that there is still more to do.
GKN Lean manufacturing was also an area of focus in 2012, and
improved customer lead times and increased stock turns came
from the many value stream activities implemented in the year. 
Technology was a third area I highlighted as a priority last year
and, as outlined in this report, GKN continues to introduce new
technology that helps customers meet their challenges. Whether it
is electro-mechanical disconnects for AWD, advanced powder
metallurgy components, high performance composite structures
or innovative clutches, we are differentiating ourselves from
competitors and helping our customers reduce weight, improve
fuel efficiency and electrify their products.
2012 was a good year for GKN. We showed strong growth in sales,
improved trading margins and a 19% rise in profit before tax. All
four businesses reported record profits reflecting not only the
effectiveness of our strategy, but the hard work of the GKN team
around the world to deliver it. I thank them for their efforts.
The growth in Group sales came both from good organic growth
in all divisions, at rates ahead of their respective markets, and
the successful integration of the acquisitions made in the second
half of 2011, Stromag and Getrag Driveline Products. These both
performed well and helped take Group sales in total to £6.9 billion.
But equally encouraging is the strong platform we have built for
GKN’s future. Our strategy of being leaders in our chosen markets,
with the broadest global footprint, best technology and a
sustained level of operational excellence, has positioned us well
to take advantage of the continued growth in our large, global
markets. The GKN brand name is not always widely known to end
consumers, but as a Tier 1 supplier to the world’s leading vehicle,
aircraft and machinery manufacturers, GKN products drive
millions of the world’s cars, help most of the world’s aircraft to fly
and power vital off-road and industrial machinery. GKN engineering
can indeed be said to “Move the world”.
“Our strategy of being leaders
in our chosen markets, with
the broadest global footprint,
best technology and a sustained
level of operational excellence,
has positioned us well to take
advantage of the continued
growth in our large, global
markets.” .0P
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Markets and divisional performance
Global automotive markets in the year were mixed, with
strong growth in North and South America, steady growth in
China and some weakness in Europe. However, within Europe,
premium car production, largely in Germany and the UK,
remained robust, helped by strong demand from export
markets, in particular China. Overall global vehicle production
grew by 6% to 81.5 million units, with GKN Driveline and GKN
Powder Metallurgy both increasing their sales.
GKN Driveline trading profit increased by £40 million, of
which around half came from the full year effects of the Getrag
acquisition and half from organic growth. In GKN Powder
Metallurgy, there was a £15 million increase in profits, and its
trading margin reached double-digits.
Aerospace markets also showed a mixed picture. Civil aircraft
demand was strong with both Airbus and Boeing increasing
their production rates as well as increasing their backlog.
In contrast, military demand softened as US defence
expenditure began to be impacted by budget constraints. GKN
Aerospace now derives more than 60% of its business from
the civil aircraft market and this percentage will rise to more
than 70% with a full year contribution from Volvo Aero,
leaving us well placed to benefit from the strong civil demand.
In 2012 GKN Aerospace’s sales increased by 20%, due to
increased output of A330, A320 and B787 aircraft, offsetting
a decline of 2% in our military sales.
GKN Aerospace showed good organic growth, with trading
profit up £4 million. Margin was maintained at 11.2%
excluding the quarter four impact of Volvo Aero.
For GKN Land Systems, agricultural markets remained steady
whilst construction markets declined and industrial markets
were depressed during the year. Construction demand was
particularly impacted by cutbacks in China, whilst the
industrial decline was largely seen in Europe, still the largest
geographic market for our GKN Land Systems business.
Trading profit in GKN Land Systems showed a good
improvement, rising £21 million on sales that were only
slightly higher than in 2011.
Overall Group sales and trading profit showed an encouraging
increase with Group sales up £792 million, 13% over 2011,
and Group trading profit up £89 million, representing a 19%
increase over 2011 (14% excluding the £19 million one-off
impact on 2011 of Gallatin).
Building the future
The benefits of our strategic positioning are now being seen.
Good organic growth over the last few years has, in the past
18 months, been supplemented by three acquisitions –
Stromag, Getrag Driveline Products and Volvo Aero. On a full
year pro-forma basis, this would take the Group sales to
approximately £7 .4 billion and nearly double that of only six
years ago.
In setting out our strategy last year, I referred to the need to
take a balanced approach between growth, margins and
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC). Whilst our short term focus
will be on generating cash, paying down debt and driving our
ROIC up to the 20% pre-tax long-term goal, we still see
opportunities for further development in all our businesses.
GKN Aerospace remains a priority, although GKN Powder
Metallurgy will also be considered as it is now performing well
and there are several interesting technological advances
taking place in that sector.
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong and we continue
to target returning to investment grade rating with all three
rating agencies. Having funded the previous two acquisitions
entirely with debt, to fund the Volvo Aero acquisition we
raised £140 million of equity through a share placing,
receiving very strong support from our shareholders – for
which I thank them. There was also a very high subscription
level for our £450 million 2022 bond issued in September.
With our long term financing in place, we have an excellent
base for the future.
Whilst today’s low interest rates are a help in the bond
market, the corresponding discount rates are a burden to
defined benefit pension schemes. GKN is no exception in this
respect. The Group currently pays in the UK, US and Europe
some £60 million by way of legacy pension payments into
underfunded, or unfunded schemes. Whilst the options for
de-risking or ‘buying out’ these schemes are kept under
constant scrutiny, it remains our view that better returns for
shareholders’ funds can be earned by investing in our own
businesses.
GKN is a global company yet all our people are bound by a
shared set of values and common ways of working – the GKN
Way. These values may be seen in a variety of ways, from
involvement in improving our workplaces to activity in the
communities in which we operate. In closing this report,
I would like to record my thanks to all the GKN people who
have worked so hard and so effectively to bring 2012 to a
successful conclusion. I know that together we will be working
to do even better in 2013.
Outlook
Overall, the Group’s broad exposure to global markets, strong
customer positions and healthy order books mean that GKN
should make good progress in 2013, benefiting from the full
year contribution from Volvo Aero.
Nigel Stein
Chief Executive
All sales and trading profit figures in this statement are presented on a
management basis. See page 24 for details.
