 06 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
STRATEGIC REPORT
MIKE TURNER CBE
CHAIRMAN
→ See pages 20-41 for more information on our financial results
Chairman’s statement
Results and dividend
2014 was another year of progress for GKN. We have delivered a good 
set of results. I am particularly pleased with the results because 
in some respects 2014 was not a straightforward year: we faced 
considerable currency headwinds with sterling unusually strong 
against all major currencies for much of the year, the agricultural 
market fell sharply and the military aerospace market continued 
to decline. Despite this, we have grown both our organic sales and 
overall profit. This shows the resilience of our business model and 
strength of our strategy. 
We have continued with our progressive dividend policy and are 
recommending a final dividend of 5.6 pence per share, making a 
total of 8.4 pence per share for the year, an increase of 6% over the 
prior year. Over the course of the past five years we have seen the 
dividend rise 68% from 5.0 pence per share in 2010 to 8.4 pence in 
respect of 2014. 
C ontinued progress
Our strategy
Our strategy is central to the year’s good results. We successfully 
positioned our automotive businesses to grow above the market and 
in 2014 they grew 8% organically compared to market growth of 3%. 
We have repositioned our aerospace business so that 73% is now in 
the higher growth commercial sector, compared to just 42% in 2007. 
Following the successful acquisition and integration as a whole of 
Volvo Aero, we have a leading aerospace engine systems business 
with excellent exposure to some fast-growing platforms. In the 
medium term our aerospace business is very well positioned to take 
advantage of growing platforms such as the Boeing 787 , the A350 
and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
Each year we seek to improve our strategy process. In 2014 we 
refined how we review and develop the Group’s strategic objectives 
by increasing our focus on long term market, economic and 
technology trends. There are some exciting changes ahead of us, 
including the increasing electrification of vehicles and the use of 
additive manufacturing in aerospace. We continue to invest to take 
advantage of the opportunities presented by these changes. Our 
strategic objectives are described in further detail on page 9.
“ We are a long term business with the  
right strategy.” Financial Statements Other Information Governance Strategic Report
07 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
We did not make any major acquisitions in 2014, taking a disciplined 
approach to potential opportunities and choosing to focus on 
thoroughly integrating our engine systems business following the 
acquisition of Volvo Aero in 2012. During 2014 we were awarded 
investment grade status with all three of the major rating agencies 
and continued to pay down our debt. We are now in a strong  
position to make further acquisitions, but will continue to take a 
focused approach.
Sustainability and risk
GKN has a long history of behaving ethically; of doing the right 
thing. We recognise that we continuously need to ensure that we set 
the right tone from the top and engage with our people to ensure 
that they understand the behaviours that we expect of them. For 
this reason we revised the GKN Code during 2014, making it clearer 
and more engaging, and updating it to bring additional focus to 
areas such as diversity and inclusion, and quality. We have also 
strengthened our diversity and inclusion programme, which is visibly 
supported by the Board, and we have worked hard to improve quality 
and product safety through the ‘Voice of the Customer’ initiative 
described by Nigel on page 18.
We have well developed risk management processes, but are not 
complacent and note the emphasis on risk management in the 
revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code. We continue to work 
to improve our risk management processes and control systems. We 
have described our work in this area in greater detail on pages 42-51.
The Board
Adam Walker joined the Board at the start of 2014 and quickly became 
an effective member of the team. I am confident that he will be an 
asset to the Company. On 31 December 2014 Marcus Bryson CBE  
retired from his role as Chief Executive Aerospace and Land Systems 
and from the Board. Marcus joined GKN in 1994 and since then 
his contribution to the creation of the GKN we see today, and in 
particular our aerospace division, has been significant. He fully 
deserves the CBE recently awarded for his contribution to the UK 
aerospace industry. We have not replaced Marcus on the Board for 
now and have chosen instead to strengthen the Executive Committee 
with the appointment of Kevin Cummings, CEO GKN Aerospace,  
Peter Oberparleiter, CEO GKN Powder Metallurgy, and Philip Swash,  
CEO GKN Land Systems. They will regularly attend Board meetings to 
ensure that the Board continues to have a good feel for  
what is happening in each division. The Board has real  
diversity of experience and technical expertise, and the  
Board dynamic continues to be excellent with all Directors  
making a valuable contribution. 
Our people
Meeting a wide range of customer expectations is never easy,  
but GKN’s culture is to persevere and through the commitment  
of our people we have delivered a good set of results. They have 
again demonstrated GKN’s resilience and ability to grow above  
the market. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for  
all that they have done.
I have written in the past about a pressing need for a global talent 
pool that is well stocked with young people with the necessary 
scientific and mathematical skills. That remains the case and I am 
glad to report that around the world GKN continues to engage in 
hundreds of local initiatives designed to encourage young people  
to choose engineering as a possible future career. 
Looking forward
As we enter 2015, political and economic uncertainty will continue  
to affect GKN. But we are a long term business with the right  
strategy. I am therefore confident that the Group will continue to 
grow and generate sustainable returns for our shareholders during 
2015 and beyond.
Mike Turner CBE
Chairman
