 6 VPhase plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
Dr Lee Juby
Chief Executive Officer
  
Our Objective
To provide long term shareholder value through •	
the commercial growth of our business leading 
to growing earnings per share. We aim to do 
this with our cost effective products designed 
to meet the growing global demand for 
domestic and light commercial energy 
efficiency technologies.
Our Strategy
To pursue identified market opportunities in the •	
Group’s target sector of energy efficiency for 
domestic and light commercial applications
To produce products based on robust •	
engineering principles, regularly utilising existing 
mass produced components configured in a 
novel and patentable way
To avoid cutting edge science enabling us to •	
de-risk the new product development process
To provide exceptional levels of customer •	
service
To generate an environment which attracts •	
highly skilled and motivated people that can 
provide the Group with a sustainable 
competitive advantage
To manage the Group in a controlled •	
governance environment with due regard  
to financial and other business risks
“Our 2009 target of 
creating a platform for 
revenue generation and 
growth has been 
achieved”
I am pleased to present this review of progress over the last twelve 
months and I am confident that we are now in a position to drive 
forward the Group’s continuing commercial growth. We are 
particularly pleased to see VPhase products being shipped to our 
customers as they save both energy and money by optimising the 
voltage supplied to their homes.
Whilst VPhase has achieved initial sales, we do recognise that  
it has taken longer than originally anticipated to have products 
available commercially due to the delay in achieving CE marking. 
Now that VPhase is a certified product, we are putting in place the 
necessary measures to capitalise on the order pipeline that we’ve 
built over the past two years. To deliver on our sales targets we 
have established the associated supply chain and sales channels, 
and have increased our marketing activities.
The strict management of our cost base and cash resources has 
allowed us to deliver an operating loss that, whilst higher than last 
year by £0.14 million due to the increased commercial activity, is still 
significantly lower than the Board’s expectations. We end the year 
with £1.7 million cash in the bank, giving us comfort that our current 
plans can be delivered from our existing resources. 
General market review
Continual concerns about the high costs of energy and the 
tightening of budgets across homes and businesses in the downturn 
have called for an ever greater need for cost-effective ways to 
conserve energy and reduce household bills. In the  
UK, our home ground and launch market, the government has also 
recognised the need to support energy efficiency and conservation 
in the household sector, which is responsible for roughly one-
quarter of the country’s emissions. Indeed, the UK Government 
announced a raft of initiatives in 2009 to promote carbon reduction 
and smart energy management in the household sector. 
A key development has been the proposal to extend CERT to 2012. 
CERT obligates energy suppliers to deliver measures to limit carbon 
emissions from UK homes. The current phase runs from 2008 to 
2011 and covers carbon savings equivalent to the emissions from 
700,000 homes per year. In early 2009 the government further 
raised the CERT target by an additional 20%, and late in the year 
proposed to extend the scheme to December 2012 with a higher 
carbon reduction target.  7 VPhase plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
CESP was introduced which further requires energy suppliers and 
generators to provide domestic energy efficiency measures via 
community schemes, with a particular focus on serving households 
in low-income areas. 
The government rolled out a programme late last year to install 
smart meters across all 26 million UK homes by 2020, as part  
of a roadmap towards a more efficient energy system. We believe 
that this will pave the way for the integration of smart energy 
management technologies such as VPhase. 
More recently, the government has announced plans for eco home 
loans. These are designed to fund both the initial purchase of 
energy-efficient technologies, such as our VPhase units, and also to 
create an ongoing price differential between energy-efficient and 
inefficient homes.
Whilst government initiatives, in particular CERT, have been 
instrumental in driving the adoption of energy-saving technologies 
such as VPhase and in focusing public opinion on energy 
conservation and carbon reduction, the Group’s position on  
such initiatives is clear. Whether provided through eco-loans  
or household efficiency programmes (such as CERT and smart 
metering), they are useful in focusing public opinion on energy 
conservation and carbon reduction. We prefer, however, to focus on 
developing products that deliver a compelling economic case 
without artificial subsidies from current or future governments and 
to use such subsidies as an additional benefit for our customers. 
Our VPhase product, by saving household bills while offering a 
quick payback, offers a compelling proposition. 
Operational Review
The Group has put in place a wide range of new processes and 
procedures to enable the consistent supply and delivery of quality 
products to our customers. I would like to thank the teams who, 
amongst other things, rapidly put in place the full range of procedures 
and controls to enable the Group to start selling VPhase products, 
not only to our commercial customers but also direct to the general 
public through our website, www.vphase.com. The electronic sales 
procedures entailed putting in place all procedures to comply with 
the Distance Selling Regulations. The whole process was undertaken 
over a very short period of time and has been operating successfully 
for the past 6 months.
The Group has been increasing the profile of VPhase and promoting 
the VPhase message:
“VPhase is the smart new way to cut your energy costs 
immediately without changing your supplier or your lifestyle.  
By reducing and managing the voltage coming into your home, 
a VPhase device will ensure many of your electrical appliances 
use less electricity and cost less to run. It will also lower your 
carbon emissions. The device is simple to install by a qualified 
electrician and requires no maintenance. It’s simply a matter 
of fit, forget and save instantly!” 
In the first half of 2009 VPhase completed the development of its 
first domestic energy saving device. This achieved CE marking in 
June, which means that the product complies with the essential 
requirements of the relevant European health, safety and 
environmental protection legislation and, therefore, permitting sales 
across the UK and continental Europe. Initially sales have been 
focused in the UK.
Achieving the CE marking milestone also enabled Ofgem’s formal 
Demonstration Action of the VPhase unit to commence, in 
conjunction with Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE), for the UK 
government’s CERT scheme. The results from this trial will indicate 
the level of lifetime carbon dioxide savings that utility companies 
can claim through the CERT scheme from the sale of the VPhase 
product. These trials are expected to conclude in the second 
quarter of 2010, which is later than we anticipated due to delays  
in the SSE customer selection and installation programme. These 
trials are now fully installed.
Trials are also being conducted with a major Northwest-based 
social housing provider, British Gas, and in VPhase staff homes for 
both product performance and marketing opportunities. 
Independently analysed results from staff homes have shown 
annualised savings of between £75 to £135 per home, dependent 
upon the level of incoming voltage and load profile of the property. 
These homes are all detached properties, and therefore smaller 
homes are likely to have lower levels of savings.
During the year we have increased our sales and marketing activities 
and have promoted the VPhase device at: Ecobuild, the world’s 
biggest trade and consumer event for sustainable design, 
construction and the built environment; on the BBC’s Working 
Lunch television programme; and in the national press. We recruited 
a head of sales and have established training sessions with the 
National Association of Professional Inspectors and Testers (NAPIT). 
These training sessions allow VPhase to train electrical contractors 
in the benefits and installation of VPhase whilst also introducing 
them to the additional revenue opportunity that VPhase offers. We 
have established a programme of these training sessions for 2010, 
and are organising product familiarisation days with electrical 
distributors for their customers along with a series of training days 
for electricians at VPhase’s premises in Capenhurst.
People
We have delivered excellent performance with a team of eight 
people. In 2010 we plan to expand this team with the further 
recruitment of sales and marketing professionals. 
Financial position and outlook
We finished the year with cash levels ahead of the Directors’ 
expectations and a business well placed to capitalise on growing 
sales and margins during 2010.
Dr Lee Juby
Chief Executive Officer
23 March 2010
“One quarter of the UK’s total 
emissions come from homes, so 
householders have to be a part of the 
solution to climate change. Increasing 
the energy efficiency of homes not 
only helps reduce emissions, but will 
also help reduce fuel bills”
Ed Miliband, Energy and Climate Change Secretary, December 2009
