 4 VPhase plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
Chairman’s Statement
“2009 was the year when VPhase 
moved from a development 
company to a commercial business 
with turnover from sales. Following 
CE marking of our VPhase product 
unit we have achieved initial revenue 
and further increased our direct and 
channel sales and marketing efforts. 
We have also continued to keep our 
costs down by exercising strong 
cash management. In 2010 we are 
focusing on growing sales and 
transitioning the Group into a 
product and service-led business.”
“We are now in the 
growth phase of 
commercial sales”
2009 was a good year for the Group during which we progressed 
from technology development to having a commercial product and 
delivering initial sales. 2010 is a significant year for the Group, where 
we have a further transition to become a product sales and  
services-led business. To achieve this we are currently putting in 
place the necessary people and processes. 
The Group has continued to deliver tight cost controls during  
our development phase, ensuring that we have sufficient funds  
for the transition period we are now in, through to volume  
sales, sustainability and commercial growth. This accelerated 
commercial activity has resulted in an operating loss £0.14 million 
higher than last year, in line with the Board’s expectations, to 
establish the basis for commercial sales in 2010. The Group finished 
the year with cash reserves of £1.7 million.
Whilst sales were modest at £0.12 million, due to the timing of 
product availability following CE certification and the establishment 
of a supply chain, the Group is putting in place the resources to 
grow sales.
During 2009 we saw increasing awareness of, and support for, 
cleaner and energy efficient technologies around the world. This is 
epitomised by one of the first points that US President Barack 
Obama made in his speech to the Copenhagen Summit: “That is 
why we have taken bold action at home – by making historic 
investments in renewable energy; by putting our people to  
work increasing efficiency in our homes and buildings; and  
by pursuing comprehensive legislation to transform to a clean 
energy economy”. 
In the UK, the government published a consultation document 
proposing to extend the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target 
(“CERT”) to 2012 and introduced the Community Energy Savings 
Programme (“CESP”). Whilst the Group’s products present a 
compelling economic case to users in their own right, the CERT 
scheme has been instrumental in encouraging household emissions 
reduction and the adoption of energy-saving devices like VPhase. 
During the year we appointed Ambrian Partners as our Broker and 
Nomad. This has consolidated our markets advisory from two firms 
to one, improving the coordination of our communications, and 
providing us with direct access to a specialist advisor in the 
cleantech sector.
I would also like to extend the thanks of the Board to all our 
employees who, through their hard work and effort, have enabled 
the Group to achieve another successful year. We look forward to a 
challenging and successful 2010 as the Group continues its 
commercial growth and development.
Adrian C Hutchings
Executive Chairman
23 March 2010
Adrian C Hutchings
Executive Chairman 5 VPhase plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
…the Government will 
legislate to channel  
£910 million from energy 
companies into energy-
saving initiatives…
Gordon Brown, September 2009
“We have taken bold 
action at home - by 
making historic 
investments in renewable 
energy; by putting our 
people to work increasing 
efficiency in our homes 
and buildings; and by 
pursuing comprehensive 
legislation to transform to 
a clean energy economy”
US President Barrack Obama at the Copenhagen 
Summit, December 2009
