   |  Annual Report 2011  |  13
ove Rview  |  Bu Sine SS Review  |  Co Rpo RAte Gove Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Ment S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtion 1.3 | Chief Executive Officer’s review
2011 witnessed a number of events which inevitably disrupted the pattern of the global economy in the short 
term and with it the demand for commodities. The Japanese Tsunami severely impacted domestic and re-
gional supply/demand patterns, while the Arab Spring tightened the outlook for global energy markets with 
resultant higher prices in oil. This had broader ramifications for the global economy as it struggled to sustain 
the growth delivered during 2010 as the issue at the heart of the 2008 – 09 financial and economic crisis, namely 
general levels of indebtedness in developed economies, remained unaddressed. The dilemma for govern-
ments of developed economies since then has been and remains how to maintain consumption and invest-
ment growth while attempting to signal serious intent to the bond markets about reducing sovereign debt.
In light of this challenging economic environment we are pleased that Glencore has been able to continue 
to deliver a healthy financial performance with Glencore net income, pre-significant items, increasing by 
7% to $ 4.1 billion in 2011. This increase was supported by solid underlying profitability in the marketing 
 b u sin e s s against a generally difficult market backdrop. The industrial business benefited from stronger 
average  prices for the key commodities it produces as well as the increased production at many operations 
including Prodeco, Katanga, Kazzinc and Mutanda.
The improved financial performance and extensive fund raising activities completed during the year pro-
vides us with a resilient balance sheet and financial flexibility with close to $ 7 billion of committed liquidity 
at the end of the year, over twice the stated $ 3 billion minimum we set ourselves. This financial flexibility 
allowed us to continue to pursue various inorganic growth opportunities as we announced a number of bolt 
on acquisitions including Umcebo, Optimum Coal and Rosh Pinah Zinc. In addition, we also completed the 
takeover offer in respect of the minority shareholding in Minara Resources. 
Our listing on the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges in May 2011 was the largest ever IPO of ordinary 
shares on the premium listing segment of the London Stock Exchange and the first simultaneous London 
primary and Hong Kong secondary IPO. The resulting governance and shareholder structure serves to align 
the interests of all stakeholders in the Company. The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend of $ 0.10 
per share for 2011.
Glencore’s IPO also coincided with the start of the next stage of our journey of value creation which will see 
us deliver organic industrial growth conservatively in excess of 50% by 2014, substantially ahead of our peer 
group average. This in turn should help drive volumes and enhanced returns within our marketing business, 
particularly in copper, coal and oil. In 2011, our key industrial expansion projects continued to progress 
with the portfolio overall on track and within budget giving us confidence that we can deliver considerable 
growth in the next twelve months even absent an improvement in the economic environment.
The announcement on 7 February 2012 of our proposed merger with Xstrata is the logical next step for two 
complementary businesses to create a new powerhouse in the global commodities industry. This is a natu-
ral combination which will realise immediate and ongoing value from marketing the combined Group’s prod-
ucts to maximise supply chain margin opportunities including via blending, swapping and storing to meet 
customers’ needs more efficiently and cost effectively. Furthermore, the combined Group’s enhanced scale, 
diversification and financial flexibility in combination with Glencore’s existing relationship with thousands of 
third-party commodity producers worldwide, is expected to allow us to capitalise on more opportunities to 
grow the enlarged asset base. The new Company, Glencore Xstrata, will be the most diverse major resource 
group which will be in a position to realise immediate and ongoing value for its shareholders.
Looking ahead, in the short-term we expect a continuation of the healthy growth seen within emerging 
markets during 2011. Whilst looking to the longer term, we see no change to the fundamental drivers for 
healthy markets in our major commodities. Emerging market urbanisation will continue to increase com-
modity intensity per capita as people strive to improve their living standards to a level which is taken for 
granted in developed societies. China will continue to remain the central driving factor given its existing 
scale, resources and growth objectives.
  
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer
