 12  |  Annual Report 2011  |  
1.2 | Chairman’s statement
In May 2011, Glencore welcomed new shareholders on the occasion of the listing of the company on the 
 London and Hong Kong stock exchanges. Before the Initial Public Offering, Glencore appointed a new 
Board which I am proud to lead as Chairman. Each Non-Executive Director has an excellent track record in 
an area of expertise directly relevant to Glencore’s operations.
2011 was a year of achievement for Glencore, despite the economic challenges that the world faced in the 
period. The development and urbanisation of China, India and other higher growth countries continues. The 
desire of hundreds of millions of people to improve their living standards, and the challenges of growing 
supply to meet that the resulting demand, underpin the fundamentals of global markets for commodities in 
the long term.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors and I visited some of Glencore’s key assets. We were very im-
pressed by the high quality of the operations and the commitment of Glencore people around the world. We 
will improve the already high standards as to ensure an even better performance in the future. 
Glencore believes that sustainability must be an integral part of everything we do, enhancing the well-being 
of our employees, surrounding communities and local environments. In September 2011, Glencore pub-
lished its first ever sustainability report. In recent years the company has established stringent global stand-
ards for Health, Safety, Environmental and Community (HSEC) relations performance under the Glencore 
Corporate Practice programme. During 2011, we also announced our membership of the Extractive Indus-
tries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global effort to help Governments use funds generated from natural 
resources in a responsible manner.
In many cases, our industrial operations have already exceeded these standards. Challenges that remain, 
have the full focus of the HSEC Committee and Glencore’s Board. We will report our progress in subsequent 
sustainability reports. 
On 7 February 2012, the Boards of Glencore and Xstrata agreed an all-share merger of equals, to create a 
unique $ 90 billion natural resources group. The Board has unanimously agreed that the merger is in the 
best interests of Glencore Shareholders. It builds upon the long-standing relationship between Xstrata and 
Glencore to the greater benefit of both companies and their shareholders. Since Xstrata was created by 
Glencore and then spun-out in 2002, these two entrepreneurial companies have grown separately into lead-
ers in the commodity industry, each with a different but highly complementary focus. Together these two 
companies will create a group with the capabilities and scale to play a leading role in meeting the growing 
global demand for commodities, whilst helping resource holding countries create value from their natural 
endowments. 
On 20 March 2012, Glencore announced a CAD 6.1 billion acquisition of Viterra, one of the world’s leading 
global agri-businesses and food ingredients companies with major operations across Canada and Australia. 
The transaction was announced in partnership with Agrium and Richardson International who have agreed 
to acquire part of Viterra’s Canadian operations for CAD 2.6 billion. The acquisition is our first major invest-
ment in the North American agricultural sector and reflects Glencore’s strong belief in the importance and 
future potential of the Canadian and Australian grain markets. It will also allow us to be well placed to par-
ticipate in future growth opportunities across the North American market. 
It is an exciting time for Glencore and for you, our shareholders.
Simon Murray
Chairman
