   |  Annual Report 2012  |  13
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n 1.3 | Chief Executive Officer’s review
2012 was a year in which the health of the global economy began to improve slowly albeit against a familiar 
backdrop established during the global financial crisis. It was also a year of major political change, which in 
itself brings greater uncertainty over future policy. Although too early to tell definitively, the regime transition 
in China and the election result in the US have so far been reasonably smooth and predictable. China looks 
well positioned to continue the substantial progress it has made since WTO entry in 2001. The US meanwhile 
has begun to show signs of underlying economic improvement notwithstanding the on­ going debate about 
long term fiscal balance. The pick­ up in construction of new houses is particularly noteworthy in the context 
of what appears to be a clear and growing energy advantage versus the rest of the world. The fact that the 
world’s largest economy is regaining its feet is good news for everyone. 
Against this background and despite highly accommodative global monetary policy, commodities experi­ enced a relatively lacklustre year with average prices down 10 – 20% year on year. We are therefore particu­ larly pleased that Glencore’s results proved to be far more robust than the sector. Our marketing operations’  
performance and the growth delivered within our industrial energy business were especially pleasing.
The performance of the marketing business reinforces the strength and resilience of Glencore’s business 
model and the diversification benefits associated with combining and integrating a portfolio of industrial  
assets with large scale physical sourcing, marketing and logistics capabilities. We continued to main­ tain a clear focus on organic growth across the industrial business through our key industrial expansion  
projects, which remain broadly on track and on budget. Both the marketing and industrial operations are 
underpinned by the highly diversified nature of our business across commodity, geography and operation. 
This provides a natural hedge in times of economic uncertainty as well as enabling the Group to be at the  
forefront of spotting emerging trends and opportunities.
We believe 2012 will also prove to have been a turning point in the history of the mining industry in respect of 
capital allocation. It has been evident for some time that capital discipline in the sector had been eroded by 
the period of higher commodity prices. The result has been a material misallocation of capital across the sector 
in respect of organic capex and acquisitions. This year investors called time with results for all to see. This de­ velopment augurs well for long term returns in the sector though investors are likely to have to remain vigilant. 
Outside of our robust financial performance, 2012 also saw some major strategic landmarks for Glencore. 
Most importantly, we commenced the process to reunite Xstrata with Glencore following a decade in the 
public markets. We continue to work on closing the merger with Xstrata. Completion of the merger remains 
conditional upon the receipt of the outstanding regulatory approval in China and completion of the Xstrata 
court process as further set out in the New Scheme Document in connection with the merger published by 
Xstrata on 25 October 2012 and Glencore giving effect to the commitments required by the European Com­ mission. Accordingly, Glencore and Xstrata have agreed, with the consent of the Panel, to extend further the 
long stop date for the merger to 16 April 2013. When completed it will provide Glencore with full access to 
Xstrata’s production flows and allow optimisation of the combined capex pipeline and operating structure. 
Our approach to integration will be to incorporate the best of both businesses and plans to this effect are 
well advanced. The benefits of this process will accrue to all stakeholders in the combined business.
Our second major step during 2012 was to acquire Viterra. This acquisition transforms our agricultural busi­ ness into a global operation through entry into the Canadian grain market and significant expansion of 
our Australian operations. This materially strengthens our ability to assist in ensuring that the world’s grain 
and oilseeds production flows to those areas where it is most needed. This is likely to become increasingly  
important given the shift towards more energy intensive diets globally.
The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend of $ 0.1035 per share resulting in a total dividend of $ 0.1575 
per share for 2012, up 5% on 2011, reflecting our confidence in our business and the continued ramp­ up of 
our brownfield industrial assets.
Looking forward we will continue to take nothing for granted whether it be economic circumstances or the good­ will of our stakeholders. We continue to see a healthy long term outlook for our commodities based on the contin­ uing growth within emerging market economies and sustained levels of consumption within developed markets.
  
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer
