 12  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
1.2 | Chairman’s statement
2012 was marked by a number of historic milestones for Glencore. The Company celebrated its first full year 
as a listed business on the London and Hong Kong Exchanges. It completed the acquisition of Viterra. Most 
notably, it also announced its merger with Xstrata. 
Looking beyond transactions, Glencore further proved the merits of its integrated model by delivering  
robust results for its shareholders. Despite the industry continuing to be impacted by low economic growth 
globally, Glencore successfully expanded its industrial business, producing strong performances in mining 
and a record performance in the oil division. 
With the merger of Xstrata, the Board of Directors remains confident that the expanded industrial base, 
coupled with Glencore’s proven marketing capability will create a group with the expertise and scale to play 
a leading role in meeting the growing global demand for commodities. Furthermore, the combined Group 
will enable the countries possessing key natural resources to generate value from their natural endowments.
On 17 December Glencore completed its acquisition of Viterra. With this transaction, Glencore solidified its 
position as one of the leading participants in the global agricultural commodities industry. The expanded 
footprint in agriculture reflects Glencore’s strong belief in the future potential of the Canadian and Austra­ lian grain and seeds markets.
Sustainability is a core tenet of Glencore. Be it through providing support to local communities where it 
operates or safeguarding the well­ being of its employees, we are determined that our investments will be 
environmentally and socially, as well as financially, rewarding for all our stakeholders. This year Glencore’s 
commitment to sustainability was underscored when Glencore Corporate Practice was extended to include 
a full programme of sustainability targets which will measure the Company’s progress over the coming years.
These achievements and ongoing focus on improvement across the Group leave Glencore well positioned 
to continue to deliver value to its customers, partners, employees and shareholders in the years to come. 
Simon Murray
Chairman
