 80 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s introduction  
& Board of Directors 
Dear Shareholders,
2014 was another eventful year for Glencore against a 
backdrop of a challenging business environment. It was also 
a year of consolidation and progress in our governance and 
sustainability agenda. 
Board activities
In May 2014, I was delighted to have been appointed by the 
Board as its ongoing Chairman. Following this decision, 
Peter Grauer was appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director. A month later Patrice Merrin was 
appointed as the eighth member of our Board, contributing 
additional valuable mining and climate change knowledge. 
These changes completed the restructuring of our Board 
which had begun a year earlier. As a result we now have 
an appropriately sized Board whose members have 
wide-ranging backgrounds. The strong track records 
and experience of all the Non-Executive Directors allow 
challenge and informed support to be provided to executive 
management in running a diverse and complex business. 
The Board continues to keep abreast of changes to corporate 
governance reporting requirements. As regulation continues 
its steady forward march, so we remain keen to keep our 
reporting as clear and concise as possible. In particular, 
following last year’s extensive remuneration report, we have 
taken the opportunity this year to remove any elements 
which would merely be repetitive of last year’s text. 
Safety
Safety remains our top priority. It saddens me to report 
that 16 people lost their lives working at our operations 
during 2014. In 2013, we launched our SafeWork initiative, 
which identifies and targets the most common fatal hazards 
within our Group operations. The SafeWork initiative has 
continued gaining ground throughout 2014. During the 
year we also held our first fatality prevention summit 
which brought together senior management and safety 
professionals to identify and commit to safety performance 
improvements. Compared to previous years the reduced 
number of fatalities, whilst unacceptable, demonstrates our 
safety leadership, safety culture and risk-based mitigation 
methods are starting to produce appreciable results. 
Sustainable Development
The unique position of our Company in the resources sector 
and the strength of our management team provide me with 
great confidence that Glencore is well placed to meet the 
ongoing challenge of sustainably producing and supplying 
commodities that are needed to meet the world’s growing 
demands. Our efforts in sustainability in 2014 resulted in 
our admission to the International Council of Mining and 
Metals (ICMM). This is the industry trade body dedicated to 
establishing and promoting leading sustainability practices. 
Another important milestone in 2014 was the completion of 
the $500 million upgrade to the Mopani smelter in Zambia 
which now currently captures 95% of its sulphur dioxide 
emissions. I am confident that our Company will continue 
to strive to not only meet but exceed the expectations placed 
on us by our stakeholders.
Stakeholder engagement 
Stakeholder engagement is a fundamental part of our 
governance and decision making process. The Board and 
Glencore’s senior management team are firmly committed 
to establishing a dialogue with all stakeholders of our 
business. This engagement includes with our critics, 
particularly certain NGOs. We have sought to engage 
constructively and our responses to material allegations 
are posted on the Public Positions section of our website. 
Creating value for society
Our operations make a significant contribution to their 
host countries through taxes and royalties, employment, 
sourcing products and services, and investment in local 
communities. 2014 saw our Group continue to strengthen 
partnerships with organisations dedicated to tackling 
social problems in the areas we operate. During the year 
we initiated a partnership with CARE International, 
a global NGO dedicated to fighting poverty, and we 
look forward to working together to strengthen our 
community programmes.
I look forward to reporting on the further progress 
of our Company in a year’s time. 
 Tony Hayward
 Chairman 1 2 34 567 8
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
81
1. Peter Coates
2. Peter Grauer
3. John Mack
4. Anthony Hayward
5. William Macaulay
6. Patrice Merrin
7. Leonhard Fischer
8. Ivan Glasenberg 82 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s introduction & Board of Directors 
1.
Peter Coates AO
Non-Executive Director 
(age 69)
Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive 
Director since January 2014. Prior to this he served 
as an Executive Director from June to December 2013 
and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to 
May 2013. 
Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee.
Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 as a 
senior executive in the coal department, Mr Coates 
had occupied many senior positions in a diverse 
range of resource companies, including those 
mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal. 
When Glencore sold its Australian and South African 
coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Xstrata as 
chief executive of its coal business, stepping down 
in December 2007.
He was non-executive chairman of Xstrata Australia 
from January 2008 until August 2009. From April 
2008 until April 2011, he was non-executive 
chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. Mr Coates 
is non-executive chairman of Sphere Minerals 
Limited (ASX:SPH), and from 30 April 2015, Santos 
Limited (ASX:STO), and a non-executive director of 
Amalgamated Holdings Limited (ASX:AHD), and a 
past chairman of the Minerals Council of Australia, 
the NSW Minerals Council and the Australian 
Coal Association.
Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree in 
Mining Engineering from the University of New 
South Wales. He was appointed to the Office of the 
Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the 
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy 
Medal for 2010.
2.
Peter Grauer
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(aged 69)
Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 
and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2014.
Committees: Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee; member of the Audit Committee. 
Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg 
Inc., the global financial media company that was 
founded in 1981. Mr Grauer was chairman and chief 
executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a 
member of Bloomberg’s board of directors since 1996. 
Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director of 
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 2000 
when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston 
and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking. He served 
as managing director and senior partner of CSFB 
Private Equity until 2002.
Mr Grauer is a director of Davita Healthcare Partners 
(NYSE:DVA), a healthcare services company. 
Mr Grauer is also a member of the International 
Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the 
UNC Chapel Hill board of trustees and a trustee of 
Rockefeller University.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of North 
Carolina and the Harvard University Graduate 
School of Business Program for Management 
Development in 1975.
3.
John Mack
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(aged 70)
Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the 
Nomination Committee. 
Experience: Mr Mack previously served as chief 
executive officer of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 
until December 2009. He retired as chairman in 2011. 
Mr Mack first joined Morgan Stanley in May 1972, 
becoming a board director in 1987 and was named 
President in 1993. 
Before rejoining Morgan Stanley as chairman 
and chief executive officer in June 2005, Mr Mack 
served as co-chief executive officer of Credit Suisse 
Group and chief executive officer of Credit Suisse 
First Boston.
Mr Mack is a non-executive director of Enduring 
Hydro and Corinthian Ophthalmic. He is also 
non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc. 
Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of 
China Investment Corporation, is a member of 
the International Business Council of the World 
Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services 
Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International 
Financial Advisory Council. 
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
4.
Anthony Hayward
Chairman  
(age 57)
Appointed: Anthony Hayward was appointed 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman in May 2013 
(initially on an interim basis from May 2013 to May 
2014). Prior to being appointed Chairman he was 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Dr Hayward is chief executive officer 
of Genel Energy plc (LON:GENL), a partner and 
member of the European advisory Board of AEA 
Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc 
from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig 
geologist in the North Sea.
Following a series of technical and commercial roles 
in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned 
to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream 
executive committee. He became group treasurer 
in 2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities 
and member of the main Board of BP in 2003.
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University in 
Birmingham and completed a Ph.D. at Edinburgh 
University. He is also a fellow of the Royal Society 
of Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from 
the University of Edinburgh, Aston University 
and the University of Birmingham. 83
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
5.
William Macaulay
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(age 69)
Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and chief 
executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, a 
private equity investment firm focused on the energy 
industry, and has been with the company since its 
founding in 1983.
Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a 
co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private 
equity buyout firm. From 1972 to 1982, he served 
as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer 
& Co. with direct responsibility for the firm’s 
buyout business. He also served as president of 
Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Mr Macaulay is chairman of the board of Dresser-
Rand (NYSE:DRC), chairman of the board of 
CHC Group Ltd (NYSE:HELI), and a director of 
Weatherford International (NYSE:WFT). He also 
serves on numerous private energy company boards. 
In addition, he is chairman of the advisory board of 
the City University of New York.
Mr Macaulay holds a B.B.A. degree (with honours) 
in Economics from City College of New York, 
and an MBA from the Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania. He has also received 
an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree 
from Baruch College.
6.
Patrice Merrin
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
(age 66)
Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Following initial roles with Molson and 
Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the 
Canadian diversified miner, for 10 years until 2004, 
latterly as COO. She then became CEO of Luscar, 
Canada’s largest thermal coal producer. She is 
currently a non-executive director of Stillwater 
Mining (NYSE:SWC) and Novadaq Technologies 
Inc. (Nasdaq:NVDQ). She has been a director and 
then chairman of CML Healthcare (then TSX) from 
2008-2013, of Enssolutions, a mine tailing solutions 
company, and of NB Power. 
Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate 
Change and Emissions Management Corporation 
from 2009 to 2014. She was also a member of the 
Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy 
Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006 and from 
2003 to 2006 was a member of Canada’s Round Table 
on the Environment and the Economy. 
Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queen’s University, 
Ontario and completed the Advanced Management 
Programme at INSEAD. 
7.
Leonhard Fischer
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(age 52)
Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit 
Committee; member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Experience: Mr Fischer was appointed chief 
executive officer of RHJ International S.A. 
(EBR:RHJI) in January 2009, having been co-chief 
executive officer from May 2007. He is chief executive 
officer of Kleinwort Benson Group and chairman of 
the board of directors of Kleinwort Benson Bank Ltd 
and BHF-Bank AG. 
Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur 
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the 
executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 
to March 2007. He joined Credit Suisse Group from 
Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the 
management board and head of the Corporates 
and Markets Division. Prior to this, he had been a 
member of the executive board of Dresdner Bank AG 
in Frankfurt.
Mr Fischer holds an M.A. in Finance from the 
University of Georgia.
8.
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer 
(age 58)
Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in 
April 1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer 
since January 2002.
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent 
three years working in the coal commodity 
department in South Africa as a marketer, before 
spending two years in Australia as head of the 
Asian coal commodity division. Between 1988 
and 1989, he was based in Hong Kong as head 
of Glencore’s Hong Kong and Beijing offices, as 
well as head of coal marketing in Asia, where his 
responsibilities included overseeing the Asian coal 
marketing business of Glencore and managing 
the administrative functions of the Hong Kong 
and Beijing offices.
In January 1990, he was made responsible for the 
worldwide coal business of Glencore for both 
marketing and industrial assets, and remained in 
this role until he became Chief Executive Officer in 
January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South 
Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from 
the University of Witwatersrand. Mr Glasenberg 
also holds an MBA from the University of Southern 
California. He is currently a non-executive director 
of United Company Rusal plc (HKG:0486) and Pirelli 
& C. SpA (MI:PECI). Before joining Glencore, Mr 
Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson 
Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
John Burton
Company Secretary 
(age 50)
Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company 
Secretary in September 2011.
Experience: He was formerly company secretary 
and general counsel of Informa plc and before that 
a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London 
specialising in corporate law. Mr Burton holds a B.A. 
degree in Law from Durham University. He was 
admitted as a Solicitor in England and Wales in 1990.
