 Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
5
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Background
2014 was a year of challenges and opportunities for Glencore. 
The gradual process of normalisation following the financial 
crisis has continued, but at a slower pace than many expected. 
In fact, some of the most important legacies of the crisis 
continue to drag on, including those relating to Europe. 
From a geopolitical perspective we have seen heightened 
tension in the Middle East and the resurgence of conflict 
in Ukraine.
Financial performance
Against this background we completed the integration 
of Xstrata during 2014 and achieved the targeted pre-tax 
margin and cost synergies of $2.4 billion. Further cash flow 
improvements are expected over the next two years as the 
balance of our legacy expansionary capital programmes are 
realised. In marketing, the integration of Xstrata’s coal, copper 
and zinc production, combined with Viterra’s infrastructure, 
helped deliver Adjusted EBIT of $2.8 billion, up 18% on 2013. 
This performance, despite weaker commodity prices for 
many of our key commodities, was particularly pleasing 
and once again demonstrates the resilience of our business 
model. The performance of our industrial activities inevitably 
reflected the weaker price environment, particularly 
in energy products, where price falls were the greatest. 
Industrial Adjusted EBITDA was down 7% to $9.8 billion. 
However, despite the weaker market environment, overall 
Group Adjusted EBITDA only declined by a modest 2% to 
$12.8 billion.
We also continued to selectively recycle capital. Notable deals 
included the sale of the Las Bambas copper project in Peru for 
$6.5 billion (net of tax) and the consolidation of the Caracal 
oil assets in Chad. Despite the generally weaker commodity 
price backdrop, we are pleased to announce a final cash 
distribution for 2014 of $12 cents per share. We were able to 
grow our base cash distribution in 2014. Additionally, we 
have also recently announced an in specie distribution of 
our non-core stake in Lonmin and we have now completed 
the buy-back of $1 billion of our equity, delivering c. 1.2% 
EPS accretion. Glencore will have returned $9.3 billion to its 
shareholders since the IPO in 2011 (inclusive of $639 million 
of repurchased convertible bonds).
Corporate governance
We have strengthened our Board of Directors with the 
appointment of Patrice Merrin and the elevation of Tony 
Hayward to the role of permanent Chairman. Peter Grauer 
has assumed the role of Senior Independent Director.
Sustainability
It is with great sadness that we report 16 fatalities at our 
operations in 2014. This regrettably high level partly reflects 
the nature, location and history of some of the operations 
which Glencore has acquired. 13 of the 16 fatalities occurred 
at a small number of assets employing 71,000 people, located 
in challenging geographies where a culture of safety did not 
exist prior to our involvement. The remaining 3 incidents 
occurred at our more developed operations, employing 
110,000 people, representing a world class safety performance; 
our ongoing challenge and commitment is to embed this 
performance into the aforementioned ‘focus assets’ . We are 
overall encouraged that the number of fatalities is lower 
than in previous years, and remain determined to eliminate 
fatalities completely. During 2013 we initiated the SafeWork 
programme to enhance safety in the workplace. SafeWork has 
now been rolled out worldwide and 118,000 employees were 
trained during 2014. The long-term injury frequency rate 
declined from 1.87 to 1.58. These improvements reflect the 
focused implementation of safety best practice procedures at 
our operations, championed and led by our Board and senior 
management team. In May 2014 we joined the International 
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM): recognition that we 
have been implementing best practices across the Group.
Looking forwards
We remain committed to a strong BBB/Baa balance sheet and 
our clearly established disciplined approach to allocating 
capital. We will focus only on high-returning opportunistic 
M&A and brownfield growth opportunities. Our ultimate 
goal remains to grow our free cash flow and return excess 
capital in the most sustainable and efficient manner. As the 
most diversified raw material producer and marketer, 
Glencore is well positioned to react to and benefit from 
changes in commodity fundamentals. Glencore will continue 
to focus on maximising the value of the potential within 
our businesses. 
In response to the challenging market environment we have 
decided to curtail coal production at Optimum in South 
Africa and a number of our coal operations in Australia 
to better align volumes and qualities with current market 
demand. Further to these coal production changes and 
associated capex reductions/ deferrals, following a recent 
review of the Group’s overall asset portfolio in response to 
weaker prices (and aided by lower input costs), we are now 
guiding 2015 industrial capex to the $6.5-6.8 billion range, 
compared to our earlier Investor Day guidance of $7 .9 billion.
While there remains the potential for future economic 
setbacks and no shortage of bearishness towards commodities 
in financial markets, physical demand for our raw materials 
remains healthy. We anticipate tightening supply conditions 
to materialise in our key commodities in response to lower 
prices, production/investment cutbacks and falling grades.
We would like to thank our employees, debt capital providers 
and shareholders for their support during 2014 and look 
forward to the future with confidence.
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer
