 14022
14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
glisten
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
Glisten plc is now five years old and I am delighted that we end our fifth year with record sales and
profits for our Group.
When we launched Glisten plc in June 2002 with sales of £14.3m we set out to build a snacking
group with strong sales growth and sustainable profit streams operating in ‘niche’ markets such
as the emerging market for healthy indulgent snacks. I am pleased to advise that our sales this
year were £58.6m (2006: £55.6m) with record operating profits pre-exceptionals of £6.6m (2006:
£5.6m). Underlying sales increased by 10% versus last year’s levels.
Over the last five years the food market has shown that it is very responsive to changing
consumer attitudes and there has been a real shift towards more natural, less processed and also
functional or so-called ‘well-being’ foods. 
Glisten has performed strongly year on year by understanding this trend and being one of 
the first companies to actively increase the quality and relevance of its product offering. As a
consequence, although Glisten started life as a producer of niche confectionery, it is now the case
that 70% of our products are fruit, cereal, nut or seed-based snacks, albeit that many of them are
chocolate or yoghurt coated.
Whilst we intend to continue producing great tasting impulse foods for major outlets we believe that
our focus on healthy, natural and premium products gives us a market position of real quality which is
exciting and sustainable. This will continue to drive Glisten’s growth and margin performance.
Glisten plc now operates three trading divisions, including our new Savoury Snacking Division,
formed following the acquisition of Dormen Foods Ltd in September 2007. Each of these trading
divisions focuses on a specific market opportunity or sector, but there is considerable and
increasing interplay on selected initiatives across the divisions, particularly in the areas of customer
penetration, buying, marketing synergies, and supply chain. 
The following commentary details progress in each of our trading divisions: 
Confectionery Division
This Division comprises our activities at three sites — Blackburn, Skegness (both trading as
Glisten Confectionery) and Dolgellau (trading as Nimbus Foods). 
These businesses are involved in the manufacture of a wide variety of confectionery but
particularly chocolate and yoghurt coated fruits and nuts, toffees and fudges, and high-fruit
gums/jellies. Nimbus develops sophisticated coated inclusions for the ice cream, bakery and
dessert industry and operates from a nut-free, fair-trade and organic accredited site.
Sales were £30.4m (2006: £31.9m), down slightly in the year reflecting temporary limitations in
Nimbus supply as a result of the capital investment programme which doubled our capacity, and
our overall determination not to sacrifice margin purely to deliver short-term sales growth. 
www.glisten.plc.uk 6
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:25  Page 6 14022
70% of our products
are fruit, cereal, nut
or seed-based snacks
Glisten plc Annual Report 2007 7
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:25  Page 7 14022 14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
www.glisten.plc.uk 8
glisten
45%
22%
26%
7%
Product Structure
Approximately 20%
of sales are branded
— Lyme Regis; SunMaid;
Halo; Victoria; Glisten
Product Groups
 Fruit, Nut, Seed, Natural Snacks +7%
 Health Bars +8%
 Confectionery +1%
 Inclusions -5%
Rita Whitlock, Production Operative, Lyme Regis Foods.
Confectionery
£14.8m
Fruit, Nut, Seed,
Cereal Snacks
£13.0m
Inclusions
£4.2m
Health Bars
£26.6m
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:25  Page 8 14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
Glisten plc Annual Report 2007 9
Chief Executive’s Review continued
During this year confectionery sales of c.£1.55m were resigned because some customer price
aspirations were not seen as realistic or sustainable. Adjusting for this, underlying sales in our
confectionery division were slightly ahead of last year.
We continue to take the view that the long-term health of Glisten is best served by focusing on
profit rather than sales growth at any cost. We will continue to drive growth through being an
efficient manufacturer whilst providing innovation, superior quality, branding, and great
customer service.
Our Confectionery business continues to be a profitable, exciting and important part of what we
do. It gives us access to over 500 customers throughout the UK — a level of penetration which is
exceptional in a business of our size, and an excellent platform for the rest of the Group’s
products. This year we have supplied products as diverse as ‘Taste the Difference’ Belgian
chocolate coated sesame seeds, white chocolate coated raspberries, and bake-stable fudge-
pieces as inclusions for in-store bakeries. We also continue to export to more than 20 countries
worldwide, including Scandinavia, Australia and North America. 
The breadth of this framework and the flexibility of our confectionery business are key strengths
and give our Group a unique competitive advantage. 
However, although we had an early-mover advantage in these emerging sectors we recognise
that the confectionery market is changing and we must continue to innovate to stay at its leading
edge. As a result of this we restructured our management teams in both Glisten Confectionery
and Nimbus Foods during the later part of the year incurring exceptional costs of £250,000. We
are confident these changes will bring even more energy and dynamism to our commercial
initiatives and have already begun to see benefit. We therefore regard 2007 as a year of change
and repositioning with the following highlights:
 We completed the removal of all artificial colours and flavours, hydrogenated vegetable oils and
trans-fats from all products. This appears to have released a bottleneck in the market and the
level of customer enquiries has risen as a result.
 Significant new business was gained in the major multiples and symbol retail groups at our
Skegness site. Sales here were at a record high of £6.0m, up 11% during the year.
 We completed the largest capital investment project in Nimbus Foods’ history investing £245,000
to double the capacity at the Dolgellau site in November 2006. This held back sales in the first half
but has now given the business the ability to continue the strong progress it made in 2006.
 We launched two new SunMaid variants — chocolate coated and yoghurt coated raisins.
Glisten holds the rights to the SunMaid brand in the UK and EU in confectionery and fruit
snacking sectors.
Gareth Pugh, Product
Development Assistant, 
Halo Foods Ltd.
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:25  Page 9 14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
Chief Executive’s Review continued
In September 2007 we acquired 50% of a young branded confectionery business focused on low
sugar–low fat confectionery marketed under the brand name ‘Skinny Candy’. Under this joint
venture Glisten management will work with the founder of Skinny Candy Ltd to develop the range
and market the brand more aggressively. Currently, Skinny Candy products are distributed in
department stores such as Top Shop, Selfridges and in Julian Graves and Waitrose as well as
Coffee Republic outlets. Skinny Candy is a young brand with a young image and we are very
excited about its prospects. 
Fruit and Cereal Snacks Division
This Division comprises our activities at three sites — Liphook, Hampshire (trading as Lyme Regis
Foods), and two sites in Wales: Tywyn, Gwynedd and Newport, Gwent (both trading as Halo
Foods Ltd).
These businesses are involved in the manufacture of cereal bars, fruit bars, protein bars and a
wide variety of specialised diet/weight control snacks, some of which Halo develops in partnership
with global brands.
Lyme Regis is a cutting edge business focused on organic, fair-trade and all-natural snacks which
are sold in almost all UK supermarkets and health food shops under the ‘Fruitus’, ‘La Fruit’, or
‘Fruit 4U’ brand names.
Since acquisition both businesses have performed strongly in terms of sales growth and margin
delivery. Divisional sales were £28.4m (2006: £23.7m) but this strong growth does not fully reflect
the quality of advance in Halo where a programme of resigning low margin sales was finally
completed this year following our acquisition of the business in December 2004. 
Halo has enjoyed considerable success with new product launches, particularly in the weight-
control sector and in the retailers’ own premium sub-brands such as ‘Taste the Difference’
(Sainsbury’s) and ‘Delicious’ (Boots). Creating new products with natural ingredients and unique
formulations is the core strength of this Division and our customer and NPD teams have risen
brilliantly to our internal vision of ‘making Glisten famous for great-tasting better-for-you snacking
products for today’s consumer’.
Lyme Regis Foods has performed consistently well since acquisition in December
2005. As with Halo, sales growth has accelerated through a number of new listings
with the major multiples. Although Lyme Regis started life principally serving the
health food sector, Lyme Regis branded products can now be found in virtually
every UK high street retailer. This growth in customer interest and product
distribution is undoubtedly the result of increasing consumer emphasis on organic,
fair-trade, all natural and ‘free from’ products — an area where Lyme Regis has
been a leader for many years.
www.glisten.plc.uk 10
14022
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:25  Page 10 Our focus on healthy,
natural and premium
products gives us a
market position of real
quality which is exciting
and sustainable
Glisten plc Annual Report 2007 11
Alun Jones, Production Operative, Nimbus Foods Ltd.
14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:25  Page 11 14022 14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
www.glisten.plc.uk 12
glisten
We will continue to drive
growth through being an
efficient manufacturer
whilst providing
innovation, superior
quality, branding and
great customer service
Stephen Lloyd, Production Operative, 
Nimbus Foods Ltd.
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:26  Page 12 14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
Our Fruit/Cereal Snacks Division has therefore recorded a year of strong progress across the
board including the following highlights:
 Halo developed and launched the UK’s fastest selling calorie control bar product into the diet
sector.
 We began the move to nut-free status at our largest site, Halo Newport. This will be completed
by Autumn 2007. This has already enabled the business to win a major new contract with one
of the world’s largest food companies starting in October 2007. 
 Partway through the year Lyme Regis achieved significant levels of new listings in Tesco, Asda,
Co-op, Morrisons and since year end, in Costco UK. All of these combine to give us significant
momentum going into the new financial year.
Savoury Snacks Division
We have recently announced the acquisition of Dormen’s Foods from its founders. Dormen’s is a
dynamic young business with an emerging brand of real potential in the better-for-you premium
savoury snacks arena. 
Dormen’s had sales of £4.4m in the year to 31 August 2006 but has grown very strongly in the
last year. Sales in the year to 31 August 2007 are expected to be in the region £5.7m with growth
coming primarily from new penetration in the major retailers and the impulse sectors including
particularly garage forecourts, off-licences and wine-bar chains.
Dormen’s sales are almost entirely branded. It is a leader in snacking nuts in the foodservice
sector, particularly to certain hotel groups and upmarket stores/restaurants where its products
have for many years been available as bar snacks. Current outlets include Claridges, Fortnums,
The Savoy, Harvey Nichols and Four Seasons Hotels but over the past few years it has begun to
develop its retail offering. As a result, new listings have been achieved in Tesco and Sainsbury’s,
but there is considerable scope for growth through Glisten’s customer network. 
Although the business is famous for its “Absurdly Delicious Nuts”, the Dormen’s-branded snacking
range embraces a wide variety of other savoury natural snacks most of which are produced and
packed at its Swindon site. 
Dormen’s has an extremely wide customer base and excellent penetration of the foodservice and
impulse sectors where Glisten plc is relatively under-represented. There is an obvious opportunity
to sell-in our new branded snacking and confectionery offerings through these trade channels. 
We believe that Dormen’s is an excellent addition and now we have a high quality foundation our
aim is to build upon this through further acquisitions to create a robust better-for-you Savoury
Snacking Division.
Glisten plc Annual Report 2007 13
Chief Executive’s Review continued
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:26  Page 13 14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
www.glisten.plc.uk 14
Chief Executive’s Review continued
People
We set out every year with a demanding agenda and it would not be possible to do what we do
without the considerable goodwill, support and effort of our people. My thanks go to every Glisten
location for the excellent progress we have made in a year of some turbulence and much change.
There is renewed emphasis on branding and product development right across the Group. The
appointment earlier this year of our first Group Marketing Director is therefore key to making more
of our ‘drive brands’: SunMaid, Skinny Candy, Fruitus (Lyme Regis), Halo and now Dormen’s. 
Glisten has an excellent position in own label supply and we see this continuing but we also know
that niche-brands have a strong part to play in some of the emerging markets we now operate in,
and particularly in some of the trade channels we wish to penetrate more fully.
Marketplace
This year there has been more pressure on some raw material costs such as dairy ingredients
(which impact chocolate prices) and cereals (due to competition on supply) than there has been
for some time but we are confident that these will be overcome or mitigated through improved
buying, determined pursuit of factory efficiencies, or securing price increases from our customers.
These pressures, which arise from time to time, reinforce our view that delivering margin growth is
more important than chasing sales growth at sub-optimal margins. 
We believe our strong focus on premium, healthier and more natural snacks and confectionery
puts us in exactly the right place to capitalise on the continuing well-being trend in snacking and
continued demand for better products. Although some parts of this trend were originally focused
on weight control, we are firmly of the view that consumers’ interest in the ingredients,
provenance, naturalness and function of the food they eat ‘on the move’ is here to stay. 
For that reason we are progressing a number of new marketing initiatives with our own brands and
with our development customers. These involve the launch of a range of new SunMaid branded fruit
snacking products, and a significantly up-weighted marketing programme on Lyme Regis ‘Fruitus’
brand including a full brand relaunch with an extended range early in the new calendar year. 
These initiatives and the new opportunities presented by our joint venture with Skinny Candy and
the acquisition of Dormen Foods give us real confidence for the year ahead.
Paul Simmonds
Chief Executive
7 September 2007
14022
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:26  Page 14 Glisten plc Annual Report 2007 15
14022 28/09/2007 Proof 4pfp
14022GLISTEN:Layout 1  28/9/07  11:26  Page 15
