 04 Glisten plc
15545 15545 02/10/2008 Proof 6
Review of the Period
Overview
I am once again delighted to report that the Glisten Group has made
solid progress and achieved record sales and profits for the sixth
year in succession.
Our sales in the year were £73.8m (2007: £58.6m), up 26%, with
operating profits before exceptional items of £8.0m (2007: £6.6m),
up 21%. Underlying sales increased by 11% versus last year’s levels. 
This year has seen much more turbulence in the food market
generally and most food businesses, including our own, have had 
to contend with widespread increases in raw material costs
compounded latterly by rising utilities costs. 
Glisten has coped with the storm well. We have been able to
demonstrate that being an efficient manufacturer with a broad and
diverse customer base focused on the right parts of the impulse
foods market gives us better opportunities for sustained growth and
cost recovery than any of our peers. 
This year all of our business units with the exception of Lyme Regis
Foods grew both sales and operating profits. 
As advised at the half-year, sales at Lyme Regis reduced as a result
of weaker demand for high-protein sports bars to one specific
European branded customer but I am pleased to report that this
trend has already begun to reverse itself as we start our new
financial year.
We have progressively driven our business towards those areas 
of snacking which we believe have long-term potential — including
specifically the healthier and premium sectors. Our progress in these
areas often overshadows our absolute focus on being a broadly
based, flexible, low cost producer. This has been one of the core
strengths of our business since inception and is evident in the
robustness of our margins.
We do expect the current market pressures to remain for some 
time and as a consequence we have been fine-tuning our business
model so that we can continue to progress strongly in the year
ahead. We do recognise that some consumers’ buying habits will
adjust during the next financial year but our focus on producing
affordable treats, many with a healthier dimension, will underpin our
continued ambitions for the Glisten Group as these sectors tend to
hold up well during more demanding economic conditions. 
We remain determined to ensure that our business continues to be
the most efficient as well as the most dynamic in our sector.
Therefore, our internal programmes aimed at being best-in-class at
buying/sourcing, manufacturing and innovation will continue with
added vigour and purpose. 
Given conditions in the financial markets, we do not expect to make
major acquisitions over the next 12 months albeit that our acquisition
pipeline remains strong. We continue to have significant organic
growth momentum and this has always been the primary focus of
our planning each year. 
Chief Executive’s Review
www.glisten.plc.co.uk
15545GLISTEN:Layout 1  2/10/08  09:22  Page 4 5 Glisten plc Annual Report 2008
Heading
15545 02/10/2008 Proof 6
Our ‘Drive Brands’, including Dormen’s (nuts), Fruitus (all natural fruit
snacks), Sun-Maid and Weight Watchers (both licensed), have all
performed well and we have robust sales and marketing plans for
the year ahead. 
Glisten Group is uniquely broadly based. More than 70% of our sales
are generated outside the Top 5 multiple retailers and whilst we have
good relationships with each of them and are ambitious for further
growth, we remain committed to supplying a wide range of market
channels as we believe this gives us an unusually broad array of
growth opportunities as well as real resilience in the face of market
pressures. 
Divisional Commentary
The following commentary details the performance in each of our 
three sector-focused operating divisions:
Confectionery Division
This Division comprises our activities at three sites — Blackburn,
Skegness, trading as Glisten Confectionery (GC), and Dolgellau,
trading as Nimbus Foods (Nimbus). GC is a broadly based specialist
confectionery business focused on all-natural, no trans-fats
chocolate/yoghurt coated fruits/nuts, popcorn and gums/jellies. 
Nimbus operates in an adjacent market, producing barrier-coated
confectionery ‘inclusions’ mainly for other food manufacturers in the
UK and mainland Europe. 
Sales were £32.8m (2007: £30.3m) up 8.2%, which represents 
a record year for this Division of our business. Both elements
performed well overall, despite some supply shortfalls in GC in the
run-up to Christmas 2007 and weaker sales than plan in Nimbus
during summer 2007. Both these factors held the Division back at
the half-year. 
In both cases we took the appropriate action to avoid any
recurrence including carefully increasing our Christmas 2008 stock-
build programme in GC and accelerating our drive to reduce
dependence on the ice-cream sector in Nimbus. Both businesses
performed solidly, built strongly throughout the second half of the
year, and finished with record sales. 
This Division saw significant change during 2007/08 and, as this
performance indicates, we leave the year with a strong base to
continue to build on.
15545GLISTEN:Layout 1  2/10/08  09:22  Page 5 06 Glisten plc
Chief Executive’s Review continued
15545 15545 02/10/2008 Proof 6
Specific initiatives
 Both GC and Nimbus had essentially new senior management
teams installed early in 2007. These teams have performed well
and have delivered new insight and momentum to the two
excellent market positions that we have here. 
 Although we strongly value the breadth of our business in terms
of both customer and product ‘reach’, we felt the need to 
refocus our activities and remove cost and complexity in order 
to increase pace in GC in particular. During the year a number of
slower selling and low value-added product lines were removed
from our confectionery offering in order to improve supply and
efficiency. The number of product lines in this Division therefore
reduced by nearly 20% and will reduce further in the year ahead. 
Fruit and Cereal Snacks Division
This Division comprises our activities at three sites — Tywyn and
Newport in Wales, trading as Halo Foods (Halo), and also Liphook,
Hampshire, trading as Lyme Regis Foods (LRF). 
Halo is one of the largest manufacturers of cereal, fruit and protein
bars in Europe, producing more than 200 million bars per annum.
LRF has a more specialist, niche position as a producer and
marketer of organic, all-natural, ‘free-from’ (eg. gluten-free), baked
products, some of them in bar format. LRF produces c.30 million
bars per annum. Both businesses serve the UK and have very 
active trading relationships in mainland Europe.
Headline Divisional sales were £29.4m (2007: £28.4m), up 3.5%. 
This result masks the underlying dynamics in what has been 
another year of progress in Halo with record profits, but as 
previously advised, a more challenging year for LRF. 
Both operations were strongly profitable but Lyme Regis had lower
sales and profits versus its record year last year, primarily as a result
of lower demand from our primary European customer for protein-
based energy bars. 
The ‘functional/nutritional-snacks’ market (which includes
energy/sports bars) is quite specialist but it is an important one for
Glisten strategically due to its value and overall growth potential. 
We are pleased to have a much stronger customer sales programme
committed for 2009 but despite this we will now actively broaden
our sales base going forward. 
Halo’s headline sales performance masks a considerable mix
change this year. When we acquired Halo in December 2004 it was
largely a contract-manufacturing business working for big brands
but without a well-developed market position of its own. As advised
in previous reports, over the last two years we have been carefully
reshaping the customer and product mix by resigning low value
sales contracts, developing defensible product-technology positions
and focusing much more on product innovation. 
www.glisten.plc.co.uk
15545GLISTEN:Layout 1  2/10/08  09:22  Page 6 7 Glisten plc Annual Report 2008
Heading
15545 02/10/2008 Proof 6
Halo’s one remaining ‘big brand’ contract-manufacturing activity of
significance was brought to an end in June 2008. Organic sales
growth excluding this contract was a very encouraging 21% ahead
(2008: £19.2m, 2007: £15.9m). 
Savoury Snacking Division
This Division also operates on three sites — Swindon, Wiltshire,
trading as Dormen Foods; Park Royal London, trading as Snacks
Unlimited; and Boston, Lincolnshire, trading as Lindum Foods.
These businesses were acquired in 2007/08 and we therefore have
part-year trading (42 weeks Dormen Foods, 34 weeks Snacks
Unlimited) included in these results. The combined initial
consideration paid was £8.95m with further earn-out payments
payable subject to performance in Dormen Foods only.
Divisional sales for the part-year were £11.75m, strongly up from
both businesses’ previous year in private ownership. Both delivered
strong operating profits in line with our plans at acquisition.
We are delighted with the performance and potential of both these
young businesses and we feel that they have integrated into Glisten
plc’s approach and culture perfectly. We are also pleased with the
fresh insights and market positions that we have acquired. As an
example, the Dormen brand is present in virtually every garage
forecourt in the UK and this sets a great example for our other
branded products such as Fruitus, Sun-Maid and Skinny Candy,
none of which currently sells in this area of the market. 
Dormen’s became the No. 2 brand in the UK snacking-nut market
this year and the fastest growing brand in its market (source:
Neilsen). Dormen’s sales in the 42 weeks since acquisition were 
£6.25m. 
We do feel that Dormen’s has a fast emerging position and is
becoming synonymous with high quality, interesting savoury snacks.
During the year we launched a Wasabi Nut range, an Organic Baked
range and an Olive Oil Baked range into our pub, delicatessen and
hotel/travel customers which represent 30% of Dormen sales.
15545GLISTEN:Layout 1  2/10/08  09:22  Page 7 08 Glisten plc
Chief Executive’s Review continued
15545 15545 02/10/2008 Proof 6
However, the main growth this year has come from the major retail
sector where sales have grown 50%. 
Despite this growth, Dormen’s range does not have full distribution
throughout the main retailers. As a young brand it is still listed in less
than 50% of potential stores in the Top 5 multiple retailers and our
target in 2009 is to substantially fill these distribution gaps.
Snacks Unlimited (“SULtd”) and its sister Company Lindum Foods
joined the Group at the end of October 2007 and both businesses
have accelerated since acquisition. Sales in the 34 weeks since
acquisition were £5.6m.
SULtd holds the licence for WeightWatchers branded savoury
snacks and also produces some own-label bagged-snack products
for the multiple retailers. All products produced are either lower-fat 
or ‘baked-not-fried’. During the year several new WeightWatchers-
brand products were launched and achieved high levels of
distribution and strong rates-of-sale in certain retailers such as Asda,
Morrisons and Sainsbury’s, but there is considerable room for further
distribution gains. WeightWatchers lower-fat Tortillas, Baked Potato
Hoops and Puffs, all launched this year, will be followed by two
exciting new baked-not-fried product ranges which have been
developed by the SULtd food technology team in only four months
for launch in autumn 2008.
This is a sector of the market where product quality has improved
considerably in recent years and as a result, consumer demand has
been switching steadily to the better-for-you equivalents of the brand
leaders. There is real room for a specialist producer focused on
innovation and we are very optimistic about our opportunities for
further organic growth. 
Our Brands
We are obviously placing much more emphasis on our desire to
grow a strong and worthwhile branded business than we did in our
first few years as a plc albeit that this has always been a clearly
stated part of our strategy. The branded element of our business
more than doubled in the year and now represents more than 
25% of total Group sales at £19.5m (2007: £7.1m) due in part 
to the acquisition of Dormen and Snacks Unlimited.
In 2007/08 we spent £780,000 (2007: £320,000) advertising and
promoting our brands and we expect this level of spend to grow
slightly in the year ahead.
Other than the launches highlighted in the Divisional Reviews, the
most significant activities this year were the complete redesign and
relaunch of Lyme Regis’s market-leading fruit snacking range under
one umbrella brand, “Fruitus”, and the creation and launch of a
unique technology and brand proposition, “Fruit Fingers”, under 
the Sun-Maid brand. 
www.glisten.plc.co.uk
15545GLISTEN:Layout 1  2/10/08  09:22  Page 8 09 Glisten plc Annual Report 2008
Heading
15545 02/10/2008 Proof 6
Since relaunch in May 2008, Fruitus rate of sale has risen strongly 
and Fruit Fingers have achieved good initial distribution in retailers
such as Tesco, Aldi, Spar and Boots ready for their launch in
September 2008.
People
Following the acquisition of Dormen Foods, Snacks Unlimited and
Lindum Foods, Glisten Group now has 694 employees (2007: 616)
spread across 11 locations.
We place huge emphasis in ‘doing what we said we would do’ and 
I am very proud of the fact that our Group has delivered consistently
and grown strongly over the last six years. As always, I would like 
to express my thanks for the support and the will to win of all our
people who have made this possible. 
Together, we are building an exciting and fast-moving business
operating in parts of the market which have sustainable growth
potential and good prospects. 
Paul Simmonds
Chief Executive
5 September 2008
15545GLISTEN:Layout 1  2/10/08  09:22  Page 9
