 Stock code: GLI www.glisten.plc.uk 02
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Our Brands at a Glance
Our brands have delivered 
good growth, with sales 
up 20% for the year, and 
now represent 28% of 
total Group sales.
Glisten Plc
Savoury Snacks Division
Born from its heritage in supplying quality nuts to 
some of the finest hotels in Europe, the Dormen’s 
retail brand has quickly grown and taken over as an 
established premium brand offering an impressive 
range of ‘finest quality nuts’. The brand has a 
particular strength in its excellent distribution 
throughout the independent trade and garage 
forecourts across the UK, and is recognised by 
consumers for its quality and taste.
Through a brand licence partnership with Weight 
Watchers, Snacks Unlimited has delivered strong 
growth across the Weight Watchers range of 
low fat savoury snacks. With broad product 
capabilities and dedicated development resource, 
Snacks Unlimited is well placed to develop this 
brand within snacks. The total Weight Watchers 
brand is valued as £310m (Source: TNS52 w/e 
6th September 2009) and is the 14th largest 
grocery brand in the UK.
SAVOURY SNACKS
qu
SNACKS SNACKS
17020GLISTEN.indd   02 10/11/2009   16:56 Annual Report 2009 03 Glisten Plc
Our Governance Our Business Our Accounts
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Fruit and Cereal Snacks Division Confectionery Division
Through working with Traidcraft, the UK’s leading 
fair trade organisation, Glisten Confectionery 
has recently begun supplying products for the 
Traidcraft confectionery range.
Launched earlier this year, the Snax range of cereal 
and biscuit bars was developed to respond to the 
changing economic climate by offering everyday 
quality snacks at exceptionally good value for 
money. The range has seen rapid uptake and is 
already performing well, particularly in the discount 
retail channel.
From March 2009, following a new initiative with 
Weight Watchers, Glisten Confectionery has been 
supplying the brand with confectionery lines 
for sale to their loyal customer base via Weight 
Watchers meetings. The new products are packed 
in a handy pocket-size carton using a new packing 
capability within the division.
CONFECTIONERY
Skinny Candy is the first and only 99 calorie ‘guilt 
free’ confectionery range, with an all new range 
of five products. As a young, trendy brand with 
a niche cult following, Skinny Candy has been 
developed to bring ‘permissible indulgence’ to the 
confectionery category.
Under a licence agreement with California-based 
Sun-Maid, Sun-Maid Fruit Fingers were launched in 
August 2008. Fruit Fingers have no artificial colours 
or flavours and are made at Halo Foods using a 
new method which creates a ‘pressed fruit bar’ with 
a unique taste and texture.
The award-winning Fruitus range was relaunched in 
April 2008 supported with an extensive marketing 
and advertising campaign. The brand has been 
extended and repackaged to create a family of fruit 
snacks. Positioned as ‘Fruitful by Nature’, all the 
products in the range contain a whole portion of 
fruit per pack and have no added sugar, artificial 
colours, flavours or preservatives. Innovative new 
products, completely new for the category, have 
been developed for launch in the New Year.
17020GLISTEN.indd   03 10/11/2009   16:56
