 Stock code: GLI www.glisten.plc.uk 06
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Review of the Period
Overview
This has been a challenging year for our business. However, prior to 
the issues detailed below which were uncovered in Halo Foods late 
in the fourth quarter, we had considered that Glisten was performing 
reasonably well in the context of difficult market conditions typified by 
low consumer confidence and ‘trading-down’.
Some of our business units delivered excellent trading performance 
again this year but sadly this was overshadowed by the issues 
which arose within Halo Foods. This report — much delayed by the 
financing negotiations which followed the year end — demonstrates 
that there is considerable strength and momentum within the 
business.
In January, we acknowledged lower than forecast first half sales and 
downgraded our profit expectations for the first time ever and in mid-
June we identified accounting errors which masked under-delivery 
of profits in Halo Foods, one of our biggest operating units. This 
under-delivery together with our actions since then are detailed in this 
report.
Although our results for the year are below the levels we had originally 
planned, our confidence, optimism and determination to ensure that 
Glisten remains one of the very best young food businesses in its 
sector remain undimmed.
Sales in the twelve months to 30th June 2009 were £74.4m (2008: 
£73.8m), up 1%. This is a record sales level despite being behind our 
original expectations. Operating profits before exceptional items were 
down by approximately one-third to £5.1m (2008: £8.0m). Profits 
before tax and exceptional were £3.4m (2008: £6.7m).
All of our business units including Halo Foods were profitable and 
despite weakened headline numbers there have been some excellent 
performances within our Group which deserve mention:
l Nimbus Foods, Lyme Regis Foods and Snacks Unlimited each 
equalled or achieved record levels of both sales and operating profits 
l Dormen Foods reached its highest brand share within the 
snacking-nut market consolidating its position as Number two 
in the sector, and we were even able to recover strong foreign 
exchange-driven cost surges in some of our key raw materials, 
particularly pistachio nuts.
l Underlying sales growth in Halo Foods was £5.5m, which 
represents an increase of 25% year-on-year. Most of this new 
business commenced in the second half of the year filling the gap 
following the resignation of a non-profitable contract in June 2008.
l All our main manufacturing sites achieved British Retail 
Consortium (BRC) Higher Grade accreditation for their technical 
competence. As this new standard is higher than ever before, this 
is a testament to our food-technology teams around the Group. 
l Real progress was made throughout the year on working capital 
and cash management. As a result of a Group-wide focus, our 
net working capital requirement reduced by £1.0m (2008: outflow 
of £0.9m). This included tightly controlled stock levels and an 
excellent debtor/creditor performance.
l Net debt finished the year broadly level at £25.2m (2008: £25.1m) 
despite paying £3.25m deferred consideration in October 2008. 
This is despite lower than forecast sales revenues and once again 
demonstrates the strong cash generative qualities of our business.
l International sales grew by 6% during the year to £8.8m, which 
represents circa 12% of Group sales.
Halo Foods Issues 
Halo Foods is part of FCSD (Fruit and Cereal Snacking Division). It 
was acquired by Glisten in December 2004 and we regard it as one 
of our best businesses. It has a good reputation and is a clear leader 
in its marketplace, producing high quality, high-technology, ‘healthier’ 
snack bars. It operates in dynamic market segments where product 
development is extremely important. As a result, Halo Foods can 
develop and launch more than 30 new product lines a year, many 
of which go into the health, diet, sports or nutrition sectors. It has 
performed consistently well since it became part of the Glisten Group.
Chief Executive’s Review
We have made good progress again this year and, 
although this was overshadowed by shortcomings in 
the fourth quarter in Halo Foods, this has been quickly 
corrected. We are very pleased with progress since then 
and we feel that the prospects for the business
are excellent.
17020GLISTEN.indd   06 10/11/2009   16:56 Annual Report 2009 07 Glisten Plc
Our Governance Our Business Our Accounts
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Halo Foods’ plan this year involved a higher than average level 
of ‘newness’, partly as a result of exiting a significant contract-
manufacturing relationship in 2008. Our plan centred on new 
products within a range of important new customers and the 
launch of our own price-fighting range under the ‘Snax’ brand. 
In the event, core sales in the first half were weaker than planned 
and new business began to be concentrated into the final four 
months of the year. However, in the fourth quarter, as supply was 
not adequately planned and operating costs were not adequately 
controlled, the level of demand exceeded Halo Foods’ ability to 
supply cost-effectively. A failure to account correctly for these 
forced operational inefficiencies together with incorrect accounting 
for some specific running cost items masked poor profit delivery 
during this period.
Following discovery of these issues Group management 
immediately took the following steps:
l The leadership and finance management within Halo Foods 
was replaced from within the Group.
l Ernst & Young was commissioned to conduct a detailed 
independent forensic investigation.
The results of the Ernst & Young review are summarised throughout 
this Report. I am pleased to advise that all of the main causal 
factors behind Halo Foods’ Q4 issues were seen as isolated, 
one-off instances that were resolved efficiently and effectively. 
In addition, the external audit of the Group has been concluded 
and an unqualified report issued. The Auditors have reported to 
the Audit Committee that there were no significant control issues 
identified throughout the Group.
Significant progress has been made since the end of June and 
the Halo Foods’ team, under new leadership, have responded 
well to a dramatically changed short-term business agenda which 
has focused on returning a good business to its previous healthy 
position. 
This has resulted in improved operations planning and the 
elimination of premium working, a refocusing of new product 
development activity and a steady return to better customer 
service. 
As a result I am pleased to advise that Halo Foods was profitable 
and on target in July, August and September and although there is 
more change to implement, we are confident that it is now heading 
back in the right direction.
Divisional Breakdown
Glisten operates as three semi-autonomous market sector-focused Divisions. Sales and profits by Operating Division are set out below:
   2008/09   2007/08
 Sales EBIT  Sales  EBIT
Confectionery (‘GCD’) £30.3m £2.3m  £32.8m  £2.8m
Fruit/Cereal Snacks (‘FCSD’) £28.2m £2.1m  £29.4m  £4.1m
Savoury Snacks (‘SSD’) £16.2m £1.9m  £11.8m  £2.3m
Head Office/Plc (£0.3m) (£1.2m)  (£0.2m)  (£1.2m)
Total Glisten Group £74.4m £5.1m  £73.8m  £8.0m
Divisional Performance Review
Whilst Glisten Plc comprises three distinct market-facing Operating 
Divisions there is considerable interplay on selected initiatives 
across the Group, particularly in the areas of customer penetration, 
buying, marketing and supply chain. 
The following commentary details progress in each of our trading 
divisions:
17020GLISTEN.indd   07 10/11/2009   16:56 Stock code: GLI www.glisten.plc.uk 08
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Savoury Snacks
Division
22%
of Total Group Turnover
(£16.2m)
Our position in this part of the savoury snacking market is 
exciting and expandable and our products are high quality and 
positioned as premium. Early in the year, we saw the beginnings 
of downward pressure on price and a slowing in hotel demand. 
However, we held our rate of sale and increased distribution 
within the travel sector (mainly airlines and trains) and in the 
major multiples with Dormen’s listed in Morrisons for the first 
time.
Our low calorie/low fat snacks range was enhanced by the 
addition of ‘Baked Crinkle Crisps’ and ‘Curls’ sold under the 
Weight Watchers brand. Sales of Weight Watchers products 
grew by 24% year on year. 
This is a part of the market which is dominated by big brands 
and where promotional activity and price-discounting have 
increased markedly over the last 12 months. Our promotional 
spend in this area increased accordingly during the year and we 
expect to continue this level of commitment in the year ahead.
The Group’s biggest capital spend project this year was 
dedicated to doubling capacity by moving onto a new site 
with new forming, frying and baking equipment at the Snacks 
Unlimited base at Park Royal. The project commenced in 
October 2008 and was completed and commissioned in January 
2009 at a capital cost of £763,000. This has enabled us to bring 
out-sourced manufacturing in-house with improved margin and 
product quality. Given the growth in the business, this facility 
has been an excellent investment and is a springboard for future 
expansion in the UK and abroad.
Savoury Snacks Division (‘SSD’)
SSD was formed in Autumn 2007 when we acquired both 
Dormen Foods and Snacks Unlimited (and its small sister 
company, Lindum Snack Company). 
Dormen Foods is based in Swindon and is the UK’s leading 
speciality nuts brand with strong distribution in most of the 
leading retailers, virtually every garage forecourt and delicatessen 
in the UK, and most leading hotel groups.
Snacks Unlimited is based in Park Royal, London and produces 
lower-fat, lower-calorie baked snacks, many of which are sold 
under the Weight Watchers brand which Glisten is licensed to 
use.
This Division had an excellent year with sales at record levels 
and strong margins. Sales were £16.2m (2008: £11.8m) and 
operating profits were £1.9m, slightly down from 2008 (£2.3m) 
due to an increase in overheads as the new management team 
overlapped with departing vendors, higher promotional spend, 
and higher raw material costs mainly currency related.
17020GLISTEN.indd   08 10/11/2009   16:56 Annual Report 2009 09 Glisten Plc
Our Governance Our Business Our Accounts
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Fruit and Cereal Snacks Division (‘FCSD’)
This Division comprises our activities at three sites — 
Liphook, Hampshire (trading as Lyme Regis Foods), and two 
sites in Wales — Tywyn, Gwynedd and Newport, Gwent (both 
trading as Halo Foods Ltd). 
Lyme Regis Foods’ focus is on organic, all natural cereal and 
fruit bars, many of which are sold under one of our drive-
brands, ‘Fruitus’, and also high-tech protein/energy bars sold 
principally in continental Europe in gyms, body-building and 
other fitness outlets.
Overall Divisional sales were £28.2m (2008: £29.4m), slightly 
down versus the prior year. Operating profits reduced to 
£2.1m (2008: £4.1m) due entirely to Halo Foods’ year-on-
year performance.
Lyme Regis Foods had an excellent year. Following a 
reduction in sales of protein bars through our European 
partner in 2007/8, we developed a new range of sports/
energy snack bars and these were launched in December 
2008. 
Fruit and Cereal Snacks
Division
40%
of Total Group Turnover
(£28.2m)
Sales in this market sector have increased by 30% year-on-
year as a direct result of this initiative. As the sports/energy-
food market continues its development we continue to 
believe that there is an increased opportunity for us in the UK 
with this kind of specialised product. 
Despite the recession, sales of organic snack products 
including Fruitus increased by 18%. The Fruitus brand itself 
grew 9% year-on-year due to new listings and product 
innovation including the launch of Fruitus Chunky, the only 
fruit bar in the market made up of individual chunks, and 
the continued growth of key flavour-ways such as Fruitus 
Pomegranate and Blueberry. The Fruitus brand remains a 
key platform for the Group in the premium/healthy snacking 
sector and we have a very strong product development 
programme ready for implementation in 2010.
Halo Foods’ journey is well documented, but it is worth noting 
that 2008/09 was our strongest year for organic sales growth 
with more than £4m of new sales generated in new customers. 
Glisten has benefited from significant and continuing growth 
in the discount retail sector where Halo Foods in particular 
established a number of major new relationships based mainly 
on product quality and product innovation capability. 
Market growth in pure ‘cereal bars’ slowed to 5% in 2009 but 
despite the recession there remains an increasing consumer 
focus on alternative natural snacks with a health, dietary, 
functional or nutritional dimension. 
Our job is to make sure that these ‘better-for-you’ products 
are as natural, delicious and affordable as we possibly can, 
particularly in light of the continuing consumer focus on price.
17020GLISTEN.indd   09 10/11/2009   16:56 Stock code: GLI www.glisten.plc.uk 10
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Confectionery Division (‘GCD’)
This Division comprises our activities at three sites — Blackburn 
and Skegness (trading as Glisten Confectionery) and Dolgellau 
(trading as Nimbus Foods). The ‘consumer confectionery’ 
operation is involved in the manufacture of a wide variety of 
chocolate and yoghurt coated fruits and nuts, toffees, fudges, 
and high-fruit gums/jellies.
Nimbus operates in the ‘industrial confectionery’ market 
developing sophisticated coated inclusions for customers in the 
ice cream, bakery and dessert industries. 
Divisional sales were £30.3m (2008: £32.8m). Operating profits 
reduced to £2.3m (2008: £2.8m). 
This reduced profit performance in consumer confectionery 
resulted from:
l Removal of an underperforming supply agreement with 
a major retailer. Low margin sales were resigned early in 
the year and costs were removed from the business on 
a phased basis but there was a lag effect which reduced 
profits.
Confectionery
Division
38%
of Total Group Turnover
(£30.3m)
l Recessionary pressure on the smaller/independent 
retailers and distributors where GCD has always had good 
penetration caused this trade sector to decline. 
l Increased promotional activity and sustained price reductions 
from the major confectionery brands reduced the market 
share of own label confectionery where Glisten Confectionery 
plays a part. 
These downward pressures were somewhat mitigated by a 
very good performance in the industrial confectionery inclusions 
market where Nimbus Foods achieved record performance, 
principally driven by exports of new products to continental 
Europe and new breakthroughs in the UK desserts marketplace. 
Within consumer confectionery 2009 saw a marked shift in 
our business away from chocolate in favour of sugar-based 
confectionery where sales of our natural fruit gums/jellies and 
toffees grew strongly. 
17020GLISTEN.indd   10 10/11/2009   16:56 Annual Report 2009 11 Glisten Plc
Our Governance Our Business Our Accounts
17020 10/11/2009 Proof 5
People
This has been a very demanding year for our people. We take huge 
pride in what we do and after six years of unbroken growth we are 
not used to missing our targets. We are very clear about where we 
want to be and how hard it is to maintain a market-leading level of 
performance. 
Overall we made good progress again this year and although this 
was overshadowed by shortcomings in the fourth quarter in Halo 
Foods, this has been quickly corrected. We are very pleased with 
progress since then and we feel that the prospects for the business 
are excellent. My thanks go to our people throughout the business 
for their effort, commitment and skill.
Market and Outlook
We have had a good start to the new financial year with like-for-
like sales ahead 13% at £25.0m after 17 weeks of the year. Group 
margins are in line with forecasts and all parts of our business are in 
growth and profitable.
Halo Foods has started the year well with a profitable first quarter 
and growth ahead of the Group average.
We expect the year ahead to continue to be challenging for all food 
businesses but there are signs of more stability and consumer 
confidence. Deep-cut pricing promotions remain the main weapon 
of the big brands and they are setting the tone in the consumer 
marketplace. Glisten will need to respond carefully and focus on 
having lower real costs and more flexibility in both marketing and 
manufacturing. We are, however, confident of a much improved 
performance this year. 
Paul Simmonds
Chief Executive
30th October 2009
17020GLISTEN.indd   11 10/11/2009   16:56
