 6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Group Chief Executive’s review
We are pleased with this year’s
performance, which has been
delivered through our experienced
and focused management style and
devolved structure.
Overview of operating performance
Overall operating performance was
slightly ahead of our expectations, with
operating profit* of £123.6m underpinned
by record results from our bus operations
and good results from rail after a
particularly strong year to June 2008.
Strong cash management resulted in
a reduction in net debt to £91.0m
(2008: £197.8m).T otal capital
investment was in line with depreciation
to maintain our high quality asset base.
We remain highly disciplined in our
assessment of potential acquisitions
and franchise bids.We were delighted
to retain our Southern rail franchise
which we believe we secured on the
basis of current and prudent economic
assumptions and deliverable initiatives.
We did not complete any acquisitions
during the year but, as recently
announced, we have agreed to acquire
EastThames Buses fromTransport for
London (TfL) for £5m and Arriva’s
Horsham bus operations for £5m. Both
are due to complete in the second
quarter of the new financial year.
We remain financially robust, with
a strong balance sheet and secure
financing and propose to maintain our
full year dividend to shareholders at
81p per share (2008: 81p per share).
Divisional performance overview
Bus
Our bus division performed slightly
ahead of our expectations for the year,
reporting record results despite
adverse movements in fuel, pension and
accident claims costs.We increased
revenue in all six of our bus companies;
a result which endorses the economic
resilience of these operations. Our
devolved structure provided high levels
of service quality, customer focus and
strong local cost control.This was
supplemented by Group purchasing
power and de-risked through
comprehensive fuel hedging. Capital
investment above depreciation ensured
we continued to benefit from well
maintained freehold depot locations
and from one of the youngest bus
fleets in the sector.
Experienced
“Our strategy
is straightforward
and we remain
confident in the
underlying strengths
of the Group. ”
Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
Rail
Our rail operations performed well, in
line with our expectations.
Each UK rail franchise is different and
we believe our three franchises are
relatively robust given their focus on
high density, urban commuter markets.
Revenue continued to grow in all three
operations, albeit, as expected, at a
slower rate in the second half and
overall service quality remained strong.
We are making good progress with
cost control initiatives, particularly in
Southeastern and also in London
Midland where we have recently
appointed a new managing director to
lead the changes in that franchise.
Looking forward, we are well advanced
with preparations for the new Southern
franchise commencing in September
2009 and the UK’s first domestic high
speed rail service in Southeastern from
December 2009.
Aviation services
Aviation services delivered a
performance in line with our
expectations.This was despite difficult
trading conditions in ground handling
and cargo and the previously reported
loss of contracts in Meteor parking.We
recognised an exceptional non-cash
impairment charge of £38.4m in the
first half to reduce the carrying value of
our ground handling and cargo
operations to approximately £20m.We
will continue with the necessary
restructuring in this division to protect
against near term deterioration in
operating results and to strengthen our
medium term position.
Market environment
Public transport remains crucial to the
development of the UK and is strongly
supported by the main political parties.
We believe that it is likely to generate
long term growth if supported by
operators with strong local stakeholder
relationships providing high quality
services and innovation.
In the short term, we need to deal with
the current phase of the economic
cycle. Demand for our bus operations
has proven to be resilient. In rail, we
believe that the underlying passenger
revenue growth (before new services
and other initiatives) will broadly follow
the economic cycle.We expect the
market conditions for our aviation
services division to remain challenging
in the near term.
Our strategy
Our strategy remains to provide high
quality passenger transport in the UK.
The underlying elements of this strategy
are to:
•Run our companies in a socially and
environmentally responsible manner
•Provide high quality, locally focused
passenger transport services
•Prioritise high density, urban markets
in the UK
•Maintain strong financial discipline to
deliver shareholder value
These elements have a number of
performance indicators, both financial
and non financial, which are routinely
measured for improvement trends
and comparison between
operating companies.
In the near term, our priority is to
deliver value from our existing portfolio
of operations.
Key risks to our performance include a
major accident or incident, or an
unexpected reduction in demand for
our services.We operate a strong
governance structure and control
environment to mitigate these and
other risks as far as possible.
In summary
We are pleased with this year’s
performance. Our strategy is
straightforward and we remain
confident in the underlying strengths of
the Group. Going forward, we will
maintain our financial discipline and
prioritise the delivery of value from our
existing portfolio of operations.
Keith Ludeman
Group Chief Executive
2 September 2009
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance Financial Statements Directors’ Report: Business Review
Revenue and operating proﬁt* by division
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
2009 (£m) 2008 (£m) (£m) (%)
Revenue
Bus 584.7 557.7 27.0 4.8%
Rail 1,552.0 1,378.4 173.6 12.6%
Aviation Services 209.4 263.0 (53.6) (20.4)%
Total 2,346.1 2,199.1 147.0 6.7%
Operating profit /(loss)*
Bus 66.6 66.2 0.4 0.6%
Rail 61.5 77.2 (15.7) (20.3)%
Aviation Services (4.5) 1.5 (6.0) n/a
Total 123.6 144.9 (21.3) (14.7)%
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
