 “WE ARE A RELATIVELY MATURE
BUSINESS AND MAINTAININGTHE
DIVIDEND PER SHARE IS A HIGH
PRIORITY FORTHE BOARD. ”
Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive
T o date the specifics around how the cuts in the Department for
Transport’s budget will affect public transport operators are not
known. However, I believe the biggest potential risk for us lies in the
bus industry with the possible reduction in, or removal of, the bus
service operators grant (BSOG). BSOG currently reimburses
operators around three quarters of the fuel duty cost. For Go-
Ahead, this equates to £48m per annum, around 8% of total bus
revenues. In London, the bus network is vital to the capital and
hopefully BSOG relating to existing contracts would be preserved. In
the medium term, any changes are likely to be recovered fromTfL
on contract renewal. Outside London, the risk is that a reduction in
BSOG would lead to a combination of network reduction and price
increases.We believe the Government is aware of these potential
consequences and expect further information as part of the
Comprehensive Spending Review in October.
The UK market remains our priority, but after a review of potential
overseas growth opportunities, we identified North American
yellow school bus as an attractive market. It has many similarities
with the UK bus market and fits well with the Group’s strategy of
providing high quality, locally focused services.
Setting up a joint venture with an established local operator
represents a low risk means of market entry and we are very
pleased with our partner Cook Illinois.While we recognise that the
market is currently under pressure as school districts look to save
costs, the current climate presents a valuable opportunity for us to
learn about the business.We also believe in the market’s long term
growth prospects due to both demographic trends and potential
conversion to the private sector. However, as previously stated, we
will continue to maintain a cautious approach to further expansion
in this market.
Why have you entered the North American
yellow school bus market?
How will Go-Ahead be affected by the
Government’s budget cuts?
10 www.go-ahead.com
Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive, reviews investors’ key concerns and topical issues.
Keith joined Go-Ahead in 1996 and has been Group Chief Executive since 2006. He has nearly
40 years experience in the transport sector.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Q&A
DIRECTORS’ REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW 11 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
developing this business.
Y es I do. Fundamentally, rail is a very good business and the private
sector is best placed to deliver the service to passengers. Go-
Ahead has a good track record in winning bids and delivering high
quality services.The dilemma for the industry is how to translate
this into a more sustainable business model which appeals to the
private sector.The economic climate has highlighted the volatile
nature of the current rail franchising model. In 2008, we reported a
rail operating profit* of £77.2m, compared with £37.3m this year. I
would far rather we averaged a more stable level of earnings for a
longer period than the current franchise allows and believe
franchise reform can address these issues. I therefore welcome the
Government’s review of the future of rail franchising.
See pages 39-40 for more information about the UK rail market and franchise reform.
We are a relatively mature business and maintaining the dividend
per share is a high priority for the Board. Our strong balance sheet
and cashflows support this level of dividend whilst ensuring we can
continue to invest properly in our existing business.We will
continue to seek acquisitions where they add value, preferring bolt-
on transactions in UK bus and gradual expansion in North America.
I am pleased with the strategic progress we have made to
strengthen our core bus and rail operations. I believe in the
fundamentals of public transport and in our focus on local
management teams empowered to deliver high quality services to
local communities. I expect the near term to remain challenging as
we work through the economic recovery, but, in the medium to
long term, I believe that Go-Ahead is a good place to be.
Y our rail profits have halved since 2008. Do you still
think the UK rail market is a good place to be?
How do you see the medium/ long term future
of the business?
Y ou say you remain cautious on the outlook for the
Group.What does this mean for the dividend?
Financial Statements Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance Directors’ Report: Business Review
*
Before amortisation and exceptional items.
1
Macquarie equity research, school bus fleet, July 2009.
NORTH AMERICAN YELLOW
SCHOOL BUS MARKET
We believe that yellow school bus is an attractive market with
significant growth opportunities. However, we are taking a
cautious approach to entry.The market has many similarities
with UK bus, but is far larger and more fragmented.The total
market is approximately 450,000 buses of which around
150,000 are run by private operators.The chart below shows
approximate market share for the private sector.
The North American yellow school bus market is vast.T o
illustrate its size, we operate around 3,800 buses in the UK.
An equivalent sized operator in the privatised sector of the
North American yellow school bus market would have a
market share of around 2.5%.
Y ellow school bus market share (private sector)
1
Q&A
42%
4%
11%
4%
28%
2%
2%
7%
National Express
Student Transport America
Atlantic Express
Cook Illinois
FirstGroup
Petermann
Next 10 operators
Operators <800 buses
