 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14
GROUP Ch IEF Ex ECUTIv E’S REv IEW
e xcellent 
pr ogre SS in 
delivering 
our Strategy
In my first review as Group Chief Executive, I am pleased to 
report strong operational performance across our businesses. 
While the wider economy is still facing real challenges our local 
market focus has ensured we are in a strong position to meet the 
needs of our passengers while leveraging the benefits of scale that 
a large group can bring. The combination of strong government 
commitment to public transport and increasing modal shift from 
cars means the growth prospects for public transport, particularly 
in urban areas, are strong. We are therefore well placed to 
grow organically and, where appropriate, make value-enhancing 
acquisitions. The future still holds challenges, but the prospects for 
the business are good.
Summary of performance
In the year, our operating performance was in line with our 
expectations. The increase in operating profit
*
 to £115.1m was 
driven by increased profits in deregulated bus and rail, offset by the 
anticipated reduction in turnover and margin in our regulated bus 
business. As we completed the disposal of our aviation services 
division during the year, these businesses are classed as discontinued 
and, unless otherwise stated, their results are excluded from this 
review. The disposal of this division has enabled us to focus solely 
on our bus and rail divisions. As part of our constant review of 
We continue to deliver 
growth across our business 
through continued 
improvements in service 
standards, better marketing, 
and a local focus on high 
density urban markets Strategic Review
www.go-ahead.com 15
Operating profit
*
Deregulated Bus
£33.7m
2010: £27.2m
Regulated Bus
£33.4m
2010: £36.5m
£67.1m
2010: £63.7m
best practice we now report on our regulated and deregulated 
bus businesses separately and have reclassified some elements of 
insurance liability and leased asset dilapidations as provisions rather 
than accruals. In accordance with IFRS we have presented a restated 
balance sheet for the year to  
3 July 2010 to clearly show these changes.
Cash management remains a focus for the Group and this 
resulted in cashflow from operations being ahead of expectations 
at £137.9m (2010: £160.6m) and net debt reducing to £69.8m 
(2010: £88.3m). Capital investment remains slightly ahead of 
depreciation, due to ongoing franchise commitments in both 
Southern and London Midland but also due to maintaining the 
high quality asset base in our expanding bus division. 
We continue to seek bolt-on acquisitions and, on 24 May 
2011, we acquired Thames Travel, a quality operator based in 
Oxfordshire that strengthens our presence in and around  
Oxford and opens up new local markets for us.
Our refinancing was completed during the year. We replaced 
our revolving credit facility with a new five year £275m revolving 
credit facility, maturing in February 2016. This is in addition to  
our £200m sterling bond which matures in September 2017.  
Our investment grade credit ratings from Moody’s and Standard  
& Poor’s have retained their stable outlook. 
This financial strength and profitability ensures we can maintain our 
full year dividend to shareholders at 81.0p per share (2010: 81.0p). 
Market environment
While the wider economic environment remains challenging, we 
are encouraged by the level of growth across our business. The 
Government continues to strongly support public transport. Last 
year the industry was concerned about the impact of government 
spending cuts and, while these have indeed been difficult, the 
underlying growth in our business has more than compensated 
for the impact. We welcome the publication of the Government-
commissioned McNulty Report on rail franchising and look 
forward to playing a key role in transforming the rail industry in 
the months and years ahead. In the medium term, we fully expect 
to benefit from both a cyclical economic recovery and from the 
underlying strengths of public transport in the UK. 
Our strategy
The Board remains committed to the Group’s strategy to  
continue to focus on providing high quality passenger transport.
The underlying elements of this strategy are to:
• Run our companies in a socially and environmentally  
responsible manner;
• Provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services;
• Prioritise high density, urban markets; and
• Maintain strong financial discipline to deliver shareholder value.
Each element has a number of performance indicators, both financial 
and non-financial, which are routinely measured for improvement 
trends and comparison between operating companies. 
* Before amortisation and exceptional items.
Bus
Revenue
Deregulated Bus
£290.9m
2010: £273.4m
Regulated Bus
£351.5m
2010: £356.1m
£642.4m
2010: £629.5m
r ail
Revenue
£1,654.6m
2010: £1,537.8m
Operating profit
*
£48.0m
2010: £37.3m
Group
Revenue
£2,297.0m
2010: £2,167.3m
Operating profit
*
£115.1m
2010: £101.0m The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16
GROUP Ch IEF Ex ECUTIv E’S REv IEW CONTINUED
In the near term, our priority is to deliver value from our existing 
portfolio of operations and seek value-enhancing opportunities.
Key risks include a major accident or incident, or an unexpected 
reduction in demand for our services. We operate a strong 
governance structure and control environment to mitigate these 
and other risks as far as possible. Our key risks and uncertainties 
are detailed on pages 28 to 31.
Divisional performance overview
Deregulated bus
Our deregulated bus division performed well during the year, 
with strong growth achieved in our existing businesses and also 
in those acquired by the Group in the previous financial year. 
Operating profit
*
 was significantly ahead of last year at £33.7m 
(2010: £27.2m). This was driven by passenger numbers increasing 
by 4.7% and passenger revenue growth of 7.4% (2.3% and 5.1% 
respectively on a like-for-like basis, adjusting for acquisitions and 
the additional week in the prior year). Cost savings achieved 
through Group purchasing continue to support the businesses. We 
continue to de-risk fuel costs through a hedging programme which 
is now rolling forward into 2014. Capital investment continues at 
above depreciation, ensuring that we retain one of the youngest 
bus fleets in the sector and maintain our strategically important 
freehold depot locations. 
Go-Ahead North America, our joint venture with Cook Illinois, 
commenced trading in August 2010 with its first yellow school bus 
franchise in St Louis, Missouri. We have established ourselves as a 
reliable and credible operator in the market and while the 2011 
tendering round has not secured new work for the joint venture, 
we will use the experience gained in the 2012 tendering round.
Regulated bus
Our regulated bus division traded in line with management 
expectations. Revenue was down by 1.3%, primarily through 
reduced receipts through Quality Incentive Contracts (QICs) 
following the abolition of the QIC2 scheme, with profits of 
£33.4m (2010: £36.5m). Like-for-like mileage operated was slightly 
down on last year at 72.2 million miles and we continued to perform 
well in TfL league tables operating 99.6% of scheduled mileage. 
Following recent contract gains, we expect to see mileage and 
revenue growth next year. Tendering competition and the QIC 
bonus structure have stabilised although the costs of uninsured 
claims are increasing. Overall we expect margins to be relatively 
stable although there will be some impact from the decrease in 
the Bus Service Operators Grant (BSOG) in April 2012.
Rail
The results of our rail division remained resilient with operating 
profit
*
 of £48.0m, some £10.7m ahead of last year, underpinned by 
approximately £13m of non-recurring contract management benefits.
All of our three rail franchises deliver core commuter services 
to high density urban markets. Passenger revenue growth is 
fundamental to their success as the passenger revenue growth 
offsets the profile of reducing underlying DfT subsidy, or in 
Southern’s case, increasing premia. Like-for-like passenger revenue 
growth for the division was 8.5%, with 8.6% in Southern, 8.4% in 
Southeastern and 8.6% in London Midland. Growth in passenger 
numbers was strong in the year with overall growth for the 
division of 4.2% on a like-for-like basis. In Southern, Southeastern 
and London Midland passenger numbers grew by 2.3%, 5.0% and 
7.2% respectively. 
The Southern franchise continues to meet its core franchise 
commitments and is in line with its bid assumptions. Southeastern’s 
high speed service between St Pancras International and Kent 
is now fully established and is expanding. It has benefited, in 
particular, from excellent contract management. London Midland 
continues to improve its operational performance and has made 
steady progress in addressing key staffing issues.
in summary
We are pleased with the set of strong results we have reported. 
While the wider economy still faces challenges, we are making 
excellent progress in delivering our growth strategy. 
We stand ready to benefit from any recovery in the economy 
and, while we remain cautious in the near term outlook for the 
UK, we are confident in the underlying strengths of and growth 
opportunities for our business.
David Brown, Group Chief executive
31 August 2011 www.go-ahead.com 17 www.go-ahead.com 17
GROUP Ch IEF Ex ECUTIv E’S
Q&a David Brown returned to Go-Ahead in April 2011 and 
became Group Chief Executive in July 2011. h e has 
nearly 30 years’ experience in the transport sector.
“Maintaining the 
dividend per share is 
an absolute priority 
for the Board”
mixture of ambition, experience, and know-
how will allow me to serve the Group and 
shareholders well in the years ahead.
Q
Do you plan to radically change the direction 
of the Group?
a We have a successful business model, 
involving autonomous business units, and 
there is no need to radically change what 
works well. I do believe, however, that 
there is considerable potential to grow 
the business both organically and through 
bolt-on acquisitions and to use Go-Ahead’s 
scale to deliver business synergies that will 
improve our cost base. We are becoming 
significantly better at marketing our services 
and we are benefiting from higher costs of 
motoring as motorists move to the better 
value alternative of public transport. In the rail 
industry, a number of franchise opportunities 
will be coming up in the years ahead.
Q
How has Go-Ahead been affected by central 
and local government cuts?
a The whole transport sector was concerned 
about the potential impact of the 
Comprehensive Spending Review. I am 
pleased that our underlying performance 
has more than made up for the impact of 
the reduction in bus subsidies. This time last 
year, the sector was concerned about the 
future of the Bus Service Operators Grant. 
The Government chose to reduce rather 
than scrap this grant and, as the reduction 
is gradual, there is time for the business to 
Q
What do you bring to the role of Group  
Chief Executive? 
a A strong ambition for the future of the 
business, an in-depth knowledge of the 
transport sector, and an understanding 
of, and background within, the Go-Ahead 
Group. I am hugely proud to be leading 
a first class business which has significant 
opportunities for growth and business 
development. h aving spent almost 30 years 
in the transport industry I know the sector, 
and in particular the markets that Go-Ahead 
operates in, incredibly well. Before rejoining 
the Group, I spent five years as Managing 
Director for Surface Transport at Transport 
for London – running one of the world’s 
largest urban bus networks. Alongside that, 
I was responsible for London’s Red Route 
road network, congestion charging, taxi 
and private hire regulations, coach, river, 
and mobility transport as well as transport 
policing and enforcement. I also introduced 
the successful Barclays Cycle h ire Scheme. 
In the past, I was Chief Executive of Go-
Ahead’s London bus business and served 
as an adviser to the main Board before 
joining Transport for London. I hope that this 
adapt. Clearly local authorities are under 
pressure and this has impacted the wider 
industry. h owever, as the vast majority of 
our services are fully commercial rather than 
local authority contracts, we do not have 
any significant exposure. Concessionary fare 
negotiations continue to be tough but we 
are confident that we will be able to retain 
reimbursement at a level the business can 
live with. 
Q Q
How confident are you of your ability to 
operate in the UK rail market which is  
very competitive?
a Rail is a very good market in which to 
operate and I believe we excel at it.  
Go-Ahead delivers 30% of all UK 
rail passenger journeys and we have 
demonstrated an ability to win franchises. 
We have a very strong base from which to 
grow. The McNulty review is a chance for 
the rail industry to be put on a much more 
sustainable business model for the long term. 
We welcome that and the opportunities it 
might bring. 
Q
How secure is the dividend?
a Delivery of the dividend is a key priority for 
the Board. We have an excellent balance 
sheet and our cashflows support the level 
of dividend we are committed to delivering 
whilst ensuring we can invest to grow the 
business further. In line with our long term 
strategy, we will continue to seek acquisitions 
where they add value.
Strategic Review
