 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
Ch AIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Strength 
acro SS bu S 
and rail 
operation S
I am pleased with the performance of the Group this year. Despite 
facing challenging economic conditions in the last 12 months and 
the adverse weather in the first half of the year, all of our operations 
have seen growth in like-for-like passenger revenue and passenger 
journeys. We have worked hard to continue providing a high quality, 
value for money service to our customers and have made good 
progress in understanding who our customers are and what their 
priorities are. 
In the first half of the year, we disposed of the remainder of our 
aviation services division and began operating our first contracts 
through our yellow school bus joint venture in North America. 
The second half of the year saw the acquisition of the Thames 
Travel bus business. 
We welcomed the findings of the McNulty review in May and are 
working closely with the Government and key organisations within 
the rail industry to shape the future of rail franchising. 
We have refinanced our main bank facilities during the year and 
maintained our investment grade credit ratings. We remain in 
good financial shape and continue to believe in the fundamental 
strengths of public transport having seen an evident modal shift 
from private car usage to public transport over the last 12 months. 
Overall, revenue increased by £129.7m, or 6.0%, to £2,297.0m 
(2010: £2,167.3m), with increases in our deregulated bus division 
and our rail division more than offsetting a slight reduction in  
our regulated bus division. Operating profit
*
 was up 14.0%  
to £115.1m, in line with our expectations (2010: £101.0m).  
Adjusted earnings per share
*
 increased by 6.5% to 135.2p  
(2010: 126.9p). Basic earnings per share, including exceptional 
items and discontinued operations, was 157.1p (2010: 40.1p)  
and profit attributable to members was £67.4m (2010: £17.2m).
Business development and acquisitions
This year has seen us dispose of the remainder of our aviation 
services division. The residual operations disposed in the first half 
of the year are classified as discontinued and are excluded from 
the results discussed throughout this report. 
We have seen continued 
growth in the financial year, 
demonstrating resilience in 
our core business in what  
continues to be a difficult  
economic environment  Strategic Review
www.go-ahead.com 13
Our North American yellow school bus joint venture operations 
have been running successfully for a year, having started with two 
contracts in St Louis, Missouri in August 2010. We have established 
ourselves as a reliable and credible operator in the market.
T owards the end of the financial year we acquired Thames Travel, 
a small bus company based in Oxfordshire. This demonstrates our 
commitment to acquisitive growth through bolt-on acquisitions  
in our deregulated bus business. 
Dividends
We know that our dividend policy is key to the investment 
decision for many shareholders. The Board remains committed 
to maintaining the dividend per share which is supported by the 
Group’s strong balance sheet and cash generation. The Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 55.5p per share (2010: 30.0p) to 
maintain the total dividend for the year at 81.0p (2010: 81.0p). 
The final dividend is payable on 18 November 2011 to registered 
shareholders at the close of business on 4 November 2011.
The Board of Directors and Governance
Following a 40 year career in the transport industry, Keith 
Ludeman retired as Group Chief Executive in July 2011. It  
has been a pleasure to work with Keith and I wish him well  
in his retirement.
I am delighted to welcome David Brown and Keith Down to the 
Board of Go-Ahead. Both David and Keith bring new strengths to 
the Board and are committed to continuing the excellent progress 
we are making in line with our strategy. 
David Brown was appointed to the Board in April 2011 as Deputy 
Group Chief Executive and following a handover period he 
became Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011, following Keith 
Ludeman’s retirement. Keith Down was appointed to the Board as 
Group Finance Director in March 2011. Both David and Keith will 
stand for election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)  
in October 2011. 
In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council issued a new  
edition of the Combined Code, called the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which outlined a number of changes designed 
to reinforce Board quality, focus on risk and improve accountability 
to shareholders. The Board has implemented changes accordingly, 
including all Directors being subject to annual election by 
shareholders at the AGM, which took effect from October 2010.
In addition to this, we acknowledged the Financial Reporting 
Council’s new guidance on Board Effectiveness and changes to the 
code following the Financial Reporting Council’s consultation on 
gender diversity on Boards.
Corporate responsibility
For Go-Ahead, corporate responsibility is about operating our 
trains and buses safely, reducing the impact of our operations 
on the environment and being passenger focused. It also means 
developing our staff and enriching our local communities while 
growing our business profitably for our shareholders. Environmental 
and social issues have continued to play an important role this year. 
These issues are at the heart of our business and we work closely 
with our many stakeholder groups to innovate so we remain at 
the forefront of our sector. Our aim is to provide passengers with 
quality bus and rail services which are sustainable and meet the 
requirements of the communities in which we operate.
Our approach to corporate responsibility covers five main areas: 
safety, environment, passengers, employees and community. The 
safety and security of our passengers, our people and the general 
public is an absolute priority for the Group and we continually 
strive to improve our already high safety performance. We are 
committed to improving the energy efficiency of our bus and 
rail operations as this not only has important environmental 
benefits, but also helps to reduce operating costs. Our Driving 
Energy Further initiatives, aimed at reducing our CO
2
 emissions 
per passenger journey by 20% by 2015, have continued this year. 
Investment, innovation and the commitment of our employees 
means we have made good progress against our target, achieving a 
12% reduction against our 2007/08 baseline – a 3% improvement 
on last year.
employees
The average number of employees in the Group for the financial 
year was 22,201, below last year’s average of 22,570, primarily due 
to the disposal of the remainder of our aviation services division.  
I would like to thank our employees for their continuing dedication 
and hard work through these challenging economic conditions to 
ensure that we remain a strong and successful Group.
Outlook
Our bus and rail operations remain fundamentally strong and 
have benefited from passengers leaving their cars at home and 
choosing better value public transport alternatives. Whilst we are 
encouraged by our performance this year, we remain cautious on 
the medium term wider economic outlook.
Our outlook for the next financial year has not changed since 
our trading update in June 2011. We are assuming that the broad 
underlying operating trends experienced in the financial year will 
continue throughout the financial year to 30 June 2012 and that 
around £13m of the rail contract management benefits achieved 
in 2011 will not recur.
In bus, we anticipate that the performance of the business will 
remain strong despite the reduction in the Bus Service Operators 
Grant (BSOG) in April 2012 which will impact on the last  
quarter of the next financial year. Our fuel requirements are  
fully hedged for the next year at 41p per litre, in line with the  
cost in the financial year just ended. In rail, we will continue to 
drive revenue and control costs to help offset the challenges  
of reduced subsidies/increased premia in our franchises.
Our balance sheet, cash flow and financing are strong and we  
continue to view the maintenance of the dividend as a priority. 
We have started the new financial year well and trading has  
been in line with the Board’s expectations.
Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman 
31 August 2011
* Before amortisation and exceptional items. 
