 3 w w w . vph a s e . c o . u k 	 V Ph as e plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Richard H Smith
Chief Executive Officer
  
Mission:
Our mission is to be the leading supplier of •	
products for domestic and light commercial 
energy efficiency in the UK and selected 
international markets.
Vision:
Our vision is clear:
We will develop long term relationships with  •	
key partners and customers to drive consumer 
demand.
We will continuously innovate in the design, •	
manufacture and supply of products to satisfy 
changing customer needs and seek to expand 
our portfolio of products from both internal and 
external sources.
We will achieve this through committed  •	
people operating in an open and stimulating 
environment.
Values:
Efficiency  We will promote energy efficiency  
in our markets and efficiency in  
our own operations.
Innovation   We are committed to innovation in  
our products, processes, service 
and support.
Partnership  We will work closely with strategic 
partners to support our key 
competences, and with our 
employees to drive our business 
forward.
“Working with our 
strategic partners and 
our employees we will 
drive the business 
forward.”
Operating Review 2010
Since my appointment as Chief Executive Officer in September 
2010 I have made sure that both the strategic objectives and the 
short term targets for the business are clearly understood, both 
internally and by our shareholders, as we set out at the time of our 
interim results in September 2010.
Six Months of Progress
In December 2010, we announced our first Framework Agreement 
with Eaga, part of EAGA plc, and this has already resulted in a 
further supply agreement via Eaga with Everest Limited who now 
offer VPhase with every solar Photovoltaic (“PV”) or energy efficient 
boiler they sell. The Eaga agreement enables us to offer national 
fulfilment within our advertising and marketing campaigns, directed 
at both retailers and domestic customers.
The Group has completed or has ongoing trials with 27 different 
social housing groups and local authorities. This will be an area of 
considerable focus for the Group over the forthcoming period and 
a significant number of enquiries are currently being progressed.
CERT Accreditation
CERT (Carbon Emission Reduction Target) is seen as a key enabler 
to accelerate the adoption of our technology.
Over the last six months, an increased effort has been placed on 
securing CERT credits. The field trial results, as independently analysed 
by EA Technology, were submitted to Ofgem in October 2010, their 
peer review by AEA Technology was completed by December 2010 
and our response to that review submitted by the end of 2010. 
On 21 March 2011 Ofgem confirmed that VPhase has secured a 
CERT measure based around its initial Demonstration Action with 
Scottish and Southern Energy (“SSE”) and Ofgem; at 2.5 tonnes of 
carbon dioxide over a 20 year measure. The savings represent an 
excellent, proven approach to lowering household carbon 
emissions, yet the figure falls somewhat short of anticipated results, 
given that the device has been independently rated for a 36 year 
component lifespan. Other trials, for example Great Places and 
staff homes, have demonstrated carbon dioxide savings to be 
around 3.6 tonnes over a notional 20 year life. The CERT 
Demonstration Action that was conducted in association with SSE 
has indicated energy savings of 5.2 % (6.3% for a gas centrally 
heated home). Whilst this is an important energy saving figure, the 
