 2 V Ph as e plc 
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
Chairman’s Statement
“We have clarified our 
messages, VPhase is the low 
cost energy saving product 
that you simply fit, forget and 
save money instantly.”
I am pleased to present my first full year statement since my 
appointment in July 2010 and to report that VPhase has made 
significant progress in delivering its strategic objectives. These 
were set out at the time of our interims:
• to establish major framework deals with national players;
• to gain product specifications with social housing providers;
• to achieve Carbon Emission Reduction Target (“CERT”) 
accreditation and to progress the process of securing the 
Community Energy Savings Programme (“CESP”) and the code 
for sustainable homes; 
• to build awareness in our immediate customer base and with 
consumers in general; 
• to continue the training of independent electricians on the 
product, its benefits, the ease of the installation process and 
their margin opportunity; 
• to leverage our unique technology platform in the development 
of further innovative energy solutions; and
•   to establish a Board and management to deliver the full 
commercial benefit of the VPhase technology.
On 13 December we announced our first framework agreement 
with Eaga Heating Services Limited (“Eaga”) and the Group is 
making good progress with a number of other potential partners. 
The Group has clarified its powerful marketing message to 
consumers: VPhase is the low cost energy saving product that you 
simply fit, forget and save money instantly. We have developed 
better marketing tools and made extensive use of our website, 
television advertising, celebrity endorsement and social media as 
well as more traditional means of promotion.
The Company has won the Electrical Industry Awards most 
innovative residential/domestic product and was runner up in the 
Shell Springboard national competition having won the regional 
finals. All such accreditations add considerable endorsement to the 
product.
Subsequent to the year end we have also secured CERT 
accreditation at 2.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide over a 20 year 
measure.
Board appointment
To further strengthen your Board I am delighted to announce that 
Duncan Sedgwick will be joining as a Non-Executive Director on 
1 April 2011. With over 37 years experience in the electricity supply 
industry including five years as the CEO of the Energy Retail 
Association, Duncan brings extensive knowledge to the Board.
The year ahead is a critical one for the business as we execute our 
commercial strategy and build on the strong partnerships that we 
have in place. I look forward to updating shareholders as the year 
progresses.
Vanda Murray OBE
Chairman
22 March 2011
Vanda Murray OBE
Chairman
“VPhase has made 
significant progress 
in delivering its 
strategic objectives.”
