 Chairman’s Statement
02
GoIndustry plc Annual report and accounts 2005
I am extremely pleased to introduce the first Annual
Report of GoIndustry plc as a public company
following its Admission to AIM on 5 January 2006.
Admission to AIM
The company had a successful debut on AIM through
the reverse takeover of Grasshopper Investments plc
(“Grasshopper”), a cash shell, which was formed for
the purpose of investing in strategic and special
situations and providing the opportunity for financing
unquoted companies seeking a public quotation.
Grasshopper raised €4.4 million (£3.0 million) and
was admitted to AIM on 7 April 2005. Following the
reverse, Grasshopper was renamed GoIndustry plc.
I would like to thank our new and existing
shareholders for supporting the company through this
significant chapter in GoIndustry’s history. Admission
to the public markets was well received and enabled
the company to strengthen its balance sheet by
converting €7.7 million of debt into equity. On 9 May
2006 we raised a further €7.5 million (£5.1 million)
through the placing of 12 million new ordinary shares
at 17.5p per share with UK institutions and the issue
of redeemable, convertible loan notes.
Results for the period to 5 January 2006
The transaction with Grasshopper has been
accounted for using reverse acquisition accounting.
The year-end has been extended by 5 days and the
accounts have been prepared for the period to
5 January 2006 to reflect this in the consolidated
results; as a consequence the comparative figures for
2004 are those of GoIndustry AG. The company has
changed the accounting reference date to
31 December, effective from 2005. The financial
statements are reported in Euros, which is the
functional currency of GoIndustry AG. From 2006, the
financial statements will be reported in Sterling, the
functional currency of GoIndustry plc.
Overall, the period to 5 January 2006 was a positive
one for GoIndustry plc. It was, however, somewhat
disappointing in terms of total revenues, which were
down 11% at the group level compared with 2004.
This was primarily due to the performance of our
business in North America, where net revenues
declined by €8.7 million, due to a very competitive
market environment. On the positive side, revenues
improved in all other geographies and the company
succeeded in reducing loss before taxation and
exceptional items to €2.0 million (year ended
31 December 2004: €4.6 million) signalling a
successful reduction in expenses and improved
management within each business unit. Loss before
taxation was €10.6 million (year ended 31 December
2004: €17.1 million). The Chief Executive’s review of
operations is set out on pages 4 and 5 of this report.
Appointments to the board
In our AIM admission document, we stated that the
company intended to change the members of the
Grasshopper board following completion of the
transaction to reflect the company’s new status.
Malcolm Burne and Richard Lockwood resigned on
9 December 2005 and Nathan Steinberg resigned on
5 January 2006. David Bailey, the former Chairman of
Grasshopper remains a director, while on 5 January
2006 John Allbrook, M. Alexander Hoye, Kamal
Advani, David MacNamara and I were elected to the
Board. The directors have a great deal to offer the
company including public company board level
experience and knowledge of the industrial asset
disposal business. A further significant board
appointment was made on 26 June 2006, when 
David Horne was appointed to the Board, following
the decision of co-founder, M. Alexander Hoye, to
step down. Alex’s contribution to the company since
its inception in 1999 has been outstanding, and on
behalf of the entire board I would like to thank him
for his vision, passion and commitment during the
past seven years.
I am pleased to announce that 2005 was a very successful
year for your company in many ways. We relocated our head
office from Munich to London and made significant new Board
and Executive appointments to lay a strong foundation for
future growth. Remaining acquisition payments were made
enabling our four primary business units in the UK, Continental
Europe, North America and Asia to be completely integrated
under one global leadership team. We completed our listing of
the company on AIM through the reverse takeover of
Grasshopper Investments plc on 5 January 2006 and have
therefore extended the financial year-end to that date. 3
GoIndustry plc Annual report and accounts 2005
People
Our company critically depends on the commitment
of our employees in all of its geographies and I
would like to thank each and every one for their
dedication and loyalty over the years. GoIndustry
would not be what or where it is today, were it not
for the enthusiasm, commitment and vision of our
hard-working people.
Growth
The company has made a positive start to 2006 and
is well positioned to take advantage of the
accelerating trend of the movement of industrial
manufacturing from North America and Western
Europe to China, India and the emerging economies
of Eastern Europe. Profitable growth will be achieved
through an appropriate combination of organic
execution and carefully targeted acquisitions.
Foundations for growth were shaped during 2005
through initiatives to align sales efforts with the most
significant growth opportunities, to drive the
penetration of online auction sales and the full
integration of each geographic business unit. Results
so far this year show these initiatives delivering in
line with our expectations. Our strong technology
platform, multinational reach and experienced
employee base leave us well positioned to deliver
significant growth in 2006 and beyond.
Signature
William Z Fox
Chairman
4 July 2006
■ 1+ million buyer records
■ 688 auctions held in 205, up 7% over 2004
■ Equipment sold into more than 75 countries
■ 5+ million page views per month
03
