 04
GoIndustry plc Annual report and accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
Operationally during the period ended 5 January 2006, we focused on four key initiatives, which collectively
have positioned the company for future profitable growth:
■ Sales alignment with the most significant and profitable growth opportunities
■ Increased online auction penetration
■ Expanding the global buyer database
■ Improving operating margins
These initiatives are already delivering improved results and operating margins in 2006 and are enabling the
company to maintain its leadership position and enhance its reputation as the global destination web site for
buyers and sellers of surplus industrial assets.
As the final acquisition payments were made, so we launched another initiative, to complete the integration of
the businesses acquired in each geography by means of defined cultural and systems projects. The leadership
team has focused on creating a networked global entity with:
■ A learning and performance culture
■ Transparent priorities for effective technology integration
■ The sales force aligned to key client channels
In addition several key appointments have been made, from both within and outside the company, to
strengthen the leadership team, including:
■ Global HR Director
■ Global Marketing & Technology Director
■ Group Legal Counsel
■ CEO North America
Along with the recent appointment of new Chief Financial Officer, David Horne, the company is well placed to
optimise its position in 2006 and beyond.
Geographic overview
GoIndustry auctioned over €140 million worth of surplus industrial assets in the period ended 5 January 2006
to buyers in over 75 countries, continuing to expand our market penetration throughout our four primary
business units.
United Kingdom
The UK is the group’s largest division and represents 50% of total group sales. Total revenues increased in the
period ended 5 January 2006 to €21.9 million. Online Gross Asset Sales increased to €14.6 million in the period
ended 5 January 2006 (31 December 2004: €5.8 million), marking a tremendous shift for the business. This
excellent result reflected strong improvements in sales efforts and international marketing, as this division
significantly increased its activities outside the UK, winning transactions in the Czech Republic, Finland,
Denmark, France, Ireland, Spain and South Africa.
Continental Europe
With total sales of €10.0 million in the period ended 5 January 2006, Continental Europe was up 3% on the
year ended 31 December 2004. Revenues improved despite a decline in the number of insolvencies in Germany
During the past year we have enhanced our position by
expanding the reach of our global buyer database, increasing
the penetration of online auctions and aligning our sales force
with the most significant opportunities. 390 online auctions
were executed in the period ended 5 January 2006, up 90%
on 2004, confirming the scalability and reliability of a platform
we believe to be unmatched in the industry. 05
GoIndustry plc Annual report and accounts 2005
as overall economic conditions improved. Revenues in Belgium significantly increased to €884,000 thanks
mainly to new contracts secured with Coca Cola, Inalfa and Houthalen.
North America
Sales in North America declined in the period ended 5 January 2006 to €9.8 million, representing 22% of total
group revenues. This substantial decrease can primarily be attributed to intensely competitive market
conditions, and a reduction in the number of instructions from asset based lenders. Furthermore, aged
inventory was written down in the period. In January 2006 a new CEO for this region was appointed. Results so
far in 2006 have improved in line with our expectations.
Asia
The Asian division grew revenues by 62% to €2.9 million, representing 6% of total group sales. This strong
result reflected improvements in sales origination activities, increases in the buyers premium charged and close
cost control. The highlight of the year was the online auction of an Annealing and Pickling line for €1.3 million,
the group’s largest single lot sold online at that time; in March 2006 this record was broken when a textile mill
was sold for €2.1 million. Additionally a joint venture was established in India, which broke even in its first
6 months of operation. This entity was established not only to begin asset disposals within one of the world’s
fastest growing economies but also to drive sales of equipment from Europe and North America.
Corporate Accounts
GoIndustry has a dedicated global sales team responsible for originating long-term asset management and
disposal contracts with multi-national corporations. This portfolio of customers now includes General Motors
Corporation, Alcoa Limited, Parker Hannifin Corporation and Campbells Soup. In the period ended 5 January
2006 this sales team has grown its share to 7% of GoIndustry’s global revenues. Encouragingly, in June 2006
the company secured an exclusive global contract with Dana Corporation, which positions this sales team for
continued profitable growth in 2006.
Outlook
The period ended 5 January 2006 was a period in which the company laid significant foundations for the future.
Already these changes are yielding improved results in line with our expectations for 2006. As GoIndustry
enters the next exciting phase of its development, as a company listed on AIM, we are set to make more
investments in our core technology and systems, expand our sales force in key geographies and client channels,
and leverage our global leadership position. The company has a solid base from which to build in 2006.
John Allbrook
Chief Executive Officer
4 July 2006
