 2 GoIndustry plc annual report and accounts 2007 www.goindustry.com
Chairman’s statement
2007 was a year of significant progress for GoIndustry. Whilst Profit Before Tax under IFRS remained consistent with 
2006, the Group more than doubled its adjusted Profit Before Tax*, strengthened its balance sheet and, in early 2008 
completed the acquisition of DoveBid Inc. We now have the pre-eminent global market position in the used industrial 
equipment auction business, and have established a platform for robust profitable and cash generative growth, not just 
in 2008, but also for the foreseeable future. 
In the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group saw adjusted Profit Before Tax* grow by 134% to £652,000 (2006: 
£279,000), on Direct Profit of £17.8 million (2006: £19.3 million) and Gross Asset Sales of £96 million (2006: £102 
million). Adjusted Operating Profit* was £1.0 million (2006: £0.8 million). Adjusted Earnings per share* doubled to 0.2 
pence (2006: 0.1 pence). Reported Operating Loss under IFRS was £0.2m (2006: £0.02m), Loss Before Tax was £0.6 
million (2006: £0.6 million), and Loss per share was 0.3p (2006: 0.4p). The Group was operating cash flow positive.
In April 2007, the Company raised £6.6 million (net of expenses) through the placing of 40,000,000 new ordinary shares 
at 17p per share, to fund its plans to drive organic growth, particularly in the important North American market, expand 
its global reach by opening new sales offices in the European and Asia-Pacific regions, and develop a new global website, 
which will have improved functionality, enhanced ease of use and true multi-lingual capabilities. We used the remaining 
proceeds from the placing to further strengthen the Group’s Balance Sheet. 
The Group continues to focus on expanding its business organically through increased adoption of its online auction 
methodology. We launched a new type of online sale with the introduction of collective online “Exchanges”, which 
enable multiple sellers to consign similar equipment into the same online auction. These Exchanges enhance market 
liquidity, and provide a place where repeat buyers can come at regular intervals to acquire a choice of high quality used 
machinery & equipment. Exchanges were established in several asset classes during the year, and we expect, with the 
DoveBid acquisition, to capitalise further on this in 2008, as DoveBid has been pursuing a similar approach. 
In January 2007, we announced a significant brand initiative, which, by mid-year had resulted in the consolidation of all 
operating companies under the single “GoIndustry” brand and name, and the retirement of the Group’s legacy brands. 
This brand consolidation was well received by customers and employees demonstrating that the Group is unified in 
executing a single global strategy and is well positioned to integrate the newly acquired “DoveBid” brand in 2008.
We have continued to strengthen the management team during the year, with the addition of two key executives. In 
May, Christian McMahon joined as Chief Information Officer from Ovum Group plc, where he had been for the prior 8 
years, to lead the execution of the Company’s IT strategy and in particular the development of the new global website, 
which will be introduced during 2008. Additionally, Adrian Pang was hired during the final quarter of the year as Chief 
Executive, Asia-Pacific. Adrian, who is based in Hong Kong, was hired from Sun Microsystems, and has extensive 
experience of working in both the technology and financial services industries. Following excellent growth in the last few 
years in this region and the subsequent acquisition of DoveBid, Adrian’s local knowledge and experience will help take 
our Group to new heights. We are also joined now by Ross and Kirk Dove from DoveBid, who will bring many years of 
auction industry experience to the team.
On behalf of the Board and the shareholders I would like to thank the GoIndustry employees for their contribution 
during the year and welcome all the DoveBid employees to the Group. We are all excited about the future prospects 
for the business. Following the acquisition of DoveBid, the Group now operates in 22 countries and employs more than 
375 people. The acquisition brings many synergies and tremendous operating leverage, and we expect these to make a 
significant contribution to both earnings and long term growth of the combined business.
As announced earlier this year, I have decided to step down as Chairman of the Company with effect from the AGM in 
June. Neville Davis joined the Board as Deputy Chairman in January 2008, following many years as the Chief Executive 
of Compel Group plc, and will assume the role of Chairman. Neville is ideally placed to take the Group forward in 
conjunction with the other members of the Board, John Allbrook and his excellent management team. I look forward to 
continue serving on the Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
With a strengthened balance sheet, a talented and committed workforce and a compelling business model, we believe 
that the Group is well placed to make strong progress in 2008.
David Bailey 
Non-Executive Chairman
* Adjusted Profit Before Tax, adjusted Operating Profit, and adjusted Earnings per share are before exceptional items and share based payments.
