 www.goindustry.com GoIndustry plc annual report and accounts 2007 3 
 
Chief Executive’s review
2007 was another important year in the development of our Group, and following the acquisition of DoveBid we have the 
opportunity to accelerate revenue and earnings growth in 2008 and beyond.
Although we have made good progress in building more solid foundations for profitable growth over the last three years, 
the acquisition of DoveBid will certainly transform this business in 2008. Apart from the cost synergies, which we expect 
to be significant, it is the geographic and strategic fit that makes the deal compelling.
Let’s begin with geography. Although GoIndustry already had an established presence in North America, through 
the acquisition of Michael Fox International and Asset Trade in 2001, our direct profit from this pivotal region only 
represented 20% of our global direct profit. In a region that accounts, according to the Economist, for more than 25% 
of global manufacturing output, this left us with significant room to grow. However, identifying suitable sales people to 
hire and securing profitable new accounts has been difficult in an intensely competitive market. With the acquisition of 
DoveBid both challenges have been overcome in one fell swoop. DoveBid is not only the US market leader, but it also has 
long established relationships with many of the Fortune 500 and possesses arguably the best sales force in the industry. 
While DoveBid will enhance our presence in North America, GoIndustry’s market presence in the European and Asia-
Pacific regions will allow us to better serve DoveBid’s North American corporate customers in these markets. Despite 
DoveBid’s strength in North America, its ability to penetrate its corporate customers globally was compromised by its 
sub-scale operations in both the European and Asia-Pacific regions. 
The strategic fit of the two companies further underscores the attractiveness of this deal. After an initial series of 
acquisitions in 2000/2001, both companies embarked on converting a long established industry from physical, live 
auctions, which were often conducted for customers with one-off needs due to re-structuring or business failure, to web-
based sales conducted over the Internet for customers with needs that extended far beyond just factory closures. 
Over the last six years both companies have driven their business models online, such that in 2007 the enlarged group 
would have had 50% of its sales converted online had they merged a year earlier. Additionally, both companies have 
introduced new services for a growing number of multi-national customers, like Proctor & Gamble, Merck, Pfizer, Parker 
Hannifin and Dana. These services include ways of helping to reduce capital expenditure, sell smaller packages of 
surplus equipment, as well as introducing the Exchange concept, which enables multiple sellers to consign equipment 
into the same online auction. This enhances market liquidity and creates a regular sales event where repeat buyers can 
identify suitable high quality used equipment more easily, and now that the buyer databases of both companies have 
been merged, these Exchanges are set to become even more vibrant in 2008.
Additionally, both companies have well established Valuations Services practices, However, GoIndustry’s strength has 
historically been in Europe, while DoveBid’s has been in the US. The Company now has a leading global presence and 
many shared customers, from which to grow this attractive and profitable revenue stream.
Finally, it is the people that have made both companies what they are today. We are delighted to welcome all the 
DoveBid employees to the enlarged group. We have already built a strong team at GoIndustry, but we have now added 
both Ross and Kirk Dove to our global management team. In doing so we have introduced enormous industry experience 
as well as their undoubted leadership qualities. In fact at all levels of both companies we are blessed with a unique 
blend of asset and industry intelligence which will not only help us grow profitably in the future but also acts as a strong 
barrier to entry for those that wish to enter our market or play “catch-up”.
Our integration has been in full swing since the deal closed on 25 February. At the current time we are on-track to 
deliver our estimated cost savings in both 2008 and 2009. All necessary actions have been initiated with most of the 
employees that have either left or will be leaving the company in the near future. We have also made significant steps to 
integrate all our business processes, IT infrastructure and real estate. The outcome will be a unified company, operating 
under one name – “GoIndustry-DoveBid” - from an appropriate cost base. 
Many of the world’s major industrial economies are approaching a period of significant turbulence, traditionally a time 
when the volume of available surplus industrial machinery & equipment significantly increases. When you combine this 
with the already established trend for manufacturing to re-locate to lower cost countries at a time when the appetite for 
high quality used machinery & equipment is increasing in many of those countries, you have a convergence of market 
conditions that point strongly in our favour. 
Thanks to a committed Board and supportive shareholders, this Group is well positioned to deliver strong earnings 
growth in 2008 and beyond.
In conclusion, on behalf of the rest of the Board, all our staff and our shareholders, I would like to thank David Bailey 
for his enormous contribution to the Company as Chairman. It is not an overstatement to say that without him we would 
not be in the enviable position we are today.
John Allbrook 
Chief Executive
