 Chief Executive’s Review
www.go-dove.com GoIndustry-DoveBid plc annual report and accounts 2009 3 
 
This	is	m y	first	r eport	to	shar eholders	since	joining	GoI ndustry	Do v eB id	as	Chief	Ex ecutiv e.	I	am	pleased	to	be	a	part	of	
this organisation and am very excited by the opportunities. I am fortunate to have an opportunity to lead a talented and 
highly experienced group of employees who are dedicated to growing the business by providing industry-leading services 
throughout the world. Customer satisfaction is high and many customers are interested in a deeper partnership with the 
group.
The	gr oup	is	now	well	positioned	f or	gr owth	and	impr o v ed	pr ofitabi li t y	after	experiencing	extr emely	adv erse	business	
conditions as a result of the unprecedented global economic turmoil in late 2008 and early 2009. We are pleased that  
f or	the	second	half	of	2009	the	business	achiev ed	oper ating	pr ofitabi li t y ,	which	w as	our	top	priorit y ,	and	also	had	
posi tiv e	cash	flow	f r om	oper ations.	W e	wer e	also	able	to	gr ow	Dir ect	Pr ofit	of	the	gr oup	in	2009	to	£25.3	mi l lion	
(f r om	£23.2	mi l lion)	whi le	pr o viding	a	high	qual i t y	of	service	to	cl ients,	despi te	significant	r eductions	of	personnel	and	
consolidation of some operations. 
I n	the	first	half	of	2009,	the	gr oup	r educed	oper ating	costs	dr amatical ly	to	be	able	to	achiev e	pr ofitabi li t y	at	a	r educed	
lev el	of	r ev enues.	I n	the	second	hal f ,	we	str engthened	the	gr oup’ s	financial	posi tion	b y	suc cessf ul ly	r aising	addi tional	
capi tal	of	£4 .1	mi l lion	(net	of	expenses)	and	con v erting	£4 .5	mi l lion	of	debt	into	equi t y ,	r educing	our	inter est	expense	
significantly .	The	impr o v ed	second	hal f	r esul ts,	coupled	with	the	lower	cost	structur e	and	str onger	financial	posi tion,	puts	
the	gr oup	on	a	sol id	platf orm	financial ly	to	gr ow	the	business	and	continue	to	impr o v e	our	pr ofitabi li t y .	
Looking forward, we expect to continue to grow revenues in 2010, primarily from increased corporate customer 
penetration, improvement in asset values, and from an expansion of activity in the insolvency market, where we are well 
positioned. 
We believe that the group has several compelling differentiators upon which we will capitalise:
l
  Our exceptional knowledge of the used equipment market, combined with a broad service offering and global 
coverage, has put us in the forefront of helping large companies to pro-actively manage their surplus industrial 
assets.
l
  We offer them a comprehensive platform to recover value from used assets through our appraisal services, 
our	AssetZ one	r edeplo yment	tool,	onl ine	or	l iv e	auctions,	and	b y	participating	in	our	industry	specific	onl ine	
marketplaces, such as our highly successful BioPharma Exchange.
l
  Typically, our clients can achieve outstanding results through our platform, including Capex savings and cash 
generation from asset sales of several million dollars each year.
l
  Evidence of our success can be found in our winning Supplier Awards from both PepsiCo (2010 Supplier of the 
Year) and Proctor & Gamble (2009 Corporate Supplier Excellence Award) demonstrating GoIndustry DoveBid’s 
industry leadership and commitment to customer satisfaction. 
The global corporate market will continue to be an important area of focus for future growth, providing more recurring 
revenues than the traditional auction business, which is more transactional in nature. In late 2009 and early 2010 we 
made some substantial enhancements to our service offerings for corporate clients, as well as expanding our corporate 
sales team to better penetrate this market. 
Another area of focus is Asia, where we have operations in ten countries and where we had many successful 
engagements	f or	mul ti-national	companies	in	2009	comprising	o v er	£5	mil lion	in	Gr oss	Asset	Sales,	as	wel l	as	local	and	
regional auctions. We have substantially increased our marketing efforts to attract both Asian buyers and sellers, and 
are now seeing much greater participation of Asian buyers in online auctions. In particular, in 2009 we enjoyed excellent 
success in China, holding what we believe are the largest online auctions ever for used industrial goods in that country; 
these	highly	suc cessf ul	auctions	gener ated	o v er	£3	mil lion	in	cash	f or	our	client,	a	global	electr onics	manuf actur er .
GoIndustry DoveBid is committed to continually improve the quality of our services to clients and to improve our 
oper ational	ex cel lence,	efficiency	and	financial	r esul ts.	F or	example,	in	2009	our	gr oup	r eleased	major	upgr ades	to	our	
customer-facing systems to improve the user experience for both new and old customers, including our external website, 
AssetZone redeployment tools, and auction systems. These enhancements continue on a monthly basis, and are an 
important priority in 2010. 
Final ly ,	I	would	l ik e	to	thank	our	customers	and	shar eholders	f or	their	continued	confidence	in	our	business,	and	to	our	
employees for their dedication in providing outstanding services for our customers and improving our group every week. 
I	look	f orw ar d	to	a	suc cessf ul	and	pr ofitable	2010.
Jack Reinelt 
Chief	Ex ecutiv e	Officer
c102671Book.indb   3 20/5/10   11:45:06
