 3
GOLDPLAT Annual Report 2012
This has been another excellent year for
Goldplat, and our stated objective of
building a cash generative, profitable, debt
free gold producer focussed in Africa is
being realised. We have reached multiple
milestones during the period, including the
first gold pour at the new Kilimapesa gold
mine in Kenya, achieved record revenues
from the gold recovery operations in Ghana
and South Africa, and through defined
exploration programmes, we are expecting
to have in excess of a one million ounce
gold resource in the near future. 
With revenues and margins continuing to improve, a net
cash position of £4.573 million at the year end, and truly
exciting projects being expanded and developed, we remain
committed to building shareholder value and reflecting our
strong operational performance in our market value, which
we believe remains significantly below its fair level. 
Our mining and exploration portfolio consists of the
producing Kilimapesa Gold Mine in Kenya and the Anumso
and Nyieme gold exploration and development projects in
Ghana and Burkina Faso, which have near term resource
upgrade and production potential.
While good progress is being made on these projects, our
two gold recovery operations in South Africa and Ghana
remain key to our profitability and cash generation,
underpinning our share price. The success of these
operations has enabled us to recommend a maiden
dividend of 0.6p per share, totalling £1,030,000. To ensure
increasing profits of the recovery business, we intend to
establish a further operation in Burkina Faso, as described
below. We have also taken important steps to expand our
operations in South Africa, and in this context I should
stress that we have been completely unaffected by the well
publicised problems affecting mines in the Rustenburg
area. Our record of no reportable accidents demonstrates
the commitment of management and staff there, and
remains a source of pride.
With a balanced portfolio of producing and exploration
assets we expect to be able to finance the majority, if not
all of our development work internally or through project
finance, negating any need for further dilution on the
corporate level, which we believe is important when
considering our value against our peer group. 
FINANCIALS
The Group reports a 53% increase in pre-tax profit for the
twelve months to 30 June 2012 to £5,244,000 (2011:
£3,428,000) and a 57% increase in after tax profit to
£4,644,000 (2011: £2,956,000). Importantly, there was a
contribution from three areas of the business and for the
first time, the profits earned in Ghana exceeded those
earned in South Africa. Basic earnings per share (pence)
jumped to 2.77p against 2.12p for 2011, a 30% increase.
These profit increases are even more impressive when
taking account of the background of declining gold prices
in the second half of the year, a trend which has now
reversed with gold at near record levels. 
At the period end, the Group retained a strong cash balance
of £4.573 million, a 52% increase compared to £3.010
million last year. 
As a result of this and the cash generative nature of the
business, the Board is recommending the payment of a
maiden dividend of 0.6p per share, totalling £1.01 million.
If approved, this dividend is expected to be paid on 
16 November 2012 to shareholders on the register on 
26 October 2012. The ex-dividend date is 24 October
2012. In future we intend to pursue a progressive dividend
policy based initially on the profits and cash generation
from our gold recovery business.
GOLD RECOVERY OPERATIONS
Our gold recovery operations in Ghana and South Africa
continue to deliver and remain market leaders in precious
metal recovery from by-products of the mining process
such as woodchips, mill liners, fine carbon, slags, sludges
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
BRIAN MORITZ – CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“The Board is recommending the payment
of a maiden dividend of 0.6p per share” 4
GOLDPLAT Annual Report 2012
Woodchips to process gold at 
Gold Recovery Ghana Limited
and waste grease. They once again posted record results
during the period producing a total of 31,354 ounces of
gold (2011: 28,185 ounces) and 7,976 ounces of silver,
with 17,762 ounces of gold attributed from Ghana and
13,592 ounces of gold from our South African operations.
These businesses have significant stockpiles of material
for processing, continue to grow and remain important to
the business as they provide investment capital to advance
our other exploration and mining projects, which negates
the need to turn to other funding options. We have
therefore focussed on maintaining each plant’s operational
efficiency with profitability remaining a key focus. 
GOLD RECOVERY GHANA LIMITED ('GRG') – GHANA
This has been another record period for GRG which
operates a processing plant in Tema, in a Free Zone Status
area, which has favourable accompanying tax benefits.
The plant, which provides an economic method for mines
to dispose of waste materials while at the same time
adhering to various environmental obligations, has
excellent relations with the Ghanaian Government and we
see it as a hub for further growth within the region.
This successful period not only saw a marked increase in
revenue and profitability but also a rise in by-products
received for processing through clients including Goldfield
Limited, AngloGold Ashanti Limited and Golden Star
Resources Limited. Due to the increased level of by-
products purchased, a second Fluidised Bed Incinerator
was purchased and installed to increase capacity.
Furthermore we continue to build on our contract base and
have secured agreements with additional mining
companies regarding acquiring gold bearing by-products.  
The toll processing operation that GRG has in place with
Adamus Resources ('Adamus'), a gold mining company in
Ghana, whereby some by-product materials purchased by
GRG is processed off-site at Adamus' processing site, also
continues to perform well and is being improved by
sourcing materials closer to its plant to reduce the
transport costs. A second receiving area at Adamus' plant
has been constructed, which has enabled GRG to
increase the volumes of by-products delivered each month.
In addition, tailings at Goldplat's brownfield Anumso gold
mining project, also in Ghana, are currently being
investigated as a potential source of material for Adamus.
GOLDPLAT RECOVERY (PTY) LTD - SOUTH AFRICA
('GOLDPLAT RECOVERY') 
Goldplat's gold recovery operation in South Africa has
continued to perform strongly and has maintained its
dominant position in South Africa in its business sector. To
maintain its leading position, improve the plant's
operational efficiency and maintain profitability, we initiated
an investment programme, which we are already seeing
the benefits of. A Fluidised Bed Incinerator project for
processing fine carbon has now been commissioned and
enables Goldplat Recovery to compete for the higher
margin fine carbon business and reduce the current stocks
of fine carbon.
In terms of processing by-product stockpiles, the
Company is currently sorting a significant volume of gold
bearing material accumulated from screening material
delivered, which we believe will increase gold recovery at
the plant going forward and positively impact Goldplat
Recovery's bottom line. Additionally the procurement of
new gold bearing materials is on-going and stocks of raw
material are stable. New clients with higher grade margin
material have been identified.
We plan to reprocess selected tailings from Goldplat
Recovery's own operation. The laboratory and bulk
samples have shown that this operation will be successful
and we are now purchasing the required equipment. Once
commissioned, this project should have a significant
positive impact on the costs of transport and procurement
of raw materials for Goldplat Recovery and hence improve
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“With a balanced portfolio of producing
and exploration assets we expect to be
able to finance the majority, if not all our
development work internally or through
project finance”
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT 
(CONTINUED) 5
GOLDPLAT Annual Report 2012
profitability for years to come. In addition, the Company
has significant reserves of coarse material that has been
screened out of purchased material prior to processing.
We have commenced the crushing and screening of this
material to provide a viable grade fine fraction that can be
processed for gold recovery and the coarse fraction for sale. 
Due diligence is continuing based on an agreement with
Central Rand Gold, whereby Goldplat Recovery will
arrange for the mining of two of the shallow shafts at the
Crown East and CMR Bird Reef mines in the West Rand
area near Johannesburg in South Africa on a 5% net
smelter return basis. We continue to sample at CMR Bird
Reef, however our priority is Crown East where we have
established safe access for a travelling way. We have also
established a small hoisting capacity for equipment
required underground and sample hoisting. We are busy
opening up and developing to gain access to the main reef
and main reef leader reserves.
The intention is that Goldplat will employ contract miners
to supply ore to the Benoni processing plant, and that 
the mining right will be retained by Central Rand Gold.
Under these arrangements Goldplat will not incur the
onerous potential liabilities inherent in underground mining
in South Africa.
On a wider note, Rand Refinery, Goldplat Recovery's
strategic partner, has expressed its intention to expand the
cooperation between the two companies in South Africa,
East and West Africa. The strategy is to utilise Goldplat's
recovery operations to upgrade material to such a 
grade that it is viable for Rand Refinery to process the
concentrated material in its works. Joint ventures will be
considered if required. 
MIDAS GOLD SARL ('MIDAS') - BURKINA FASO
Research undertaken by us in Burkina Faso has indicated
that there are significant volumes of tailings at attractive
grades available for processing. With this in mind, we plan
to establish a new processing unit in Burkina Faso and
have registered a new trading company, Midas Gold SARL,
to operate it. 
Midas is preparing a feasibility report of setting up the new
processing unit and to this end initial designs have been
drawn and equipment sourced. An appropriate site in the
vicinity of Goldplat's brownfield Nyieme gold project also
in Burkina Faso has also been selected, the coordinates
of which are required to be included in the application for
an operating licence.
Midas is preparing an Environmental Report which is the
final document required in order to submit our mining
licence application. 
Importantly, the Company has good relations with the
relevant Government institutions which would give
approval to develop the plant, and it also has the support
of the local Mayor for this new initiative. 
MINING AND DEVELOPMENT 
Kilimapesa Gold - Kenya
Progress at Kilimapesa Gold, our wholly owned high grade
auriferous vein mine, located in the historically productive
Migori Archaean Greenstone Belt in western Kenya
continues at pace. Having received a 21 year Mining Lease
in November 2011, the first gold project to be given a
mining licence in the country since its independence in
1963, we completed the construction and commissioning
of a processing facility including an elution plant to enable
Kilimapesa to smelt and produce doré on site on an on-
going basis. 
Production of doré commenced in January 2012 and
continues on a regular basis, with the gold sold to Rand
Refinery Limited in South Africa. The plant is currently
operating primarily on stoping tonnage sourced from the
underground operations at Kilimapesa Hill, with grades and
recoveries as forecast, averaging 5-6 g/t and +85%
respectively. Self-financing ramp up at the mine remains
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“We remain committed to building
shareholder value and reflecting our strong
operational performance in our market value”
Mine workers at Kilimapesa Gold Mine in Kenya Exploration Drilling at Anumso Gold Project, Ghana 
on track, with annual production targeted at 10,000 ounces
in the next two years. To aid this programme, a 500 Kva
generator was bought to act as a power supply back-up
in the case of grid power outages. The plant has been
assembled, primarily in South Africa, for shipping to Kenya.
The target date for commissioning the new plant was the
beginning of 2013, but difficulties with shipping, clearance
and onward transportation mean that commission may be
slightly delayed.
Underground development is on-going, primarily focussed
on extending the 1.2km strike length of the auriferous
quartz veins over the Kilimapesa Hill. The current
development programme at Kilimapesa Hill comprises
three on-strike development ends on the auriferous quartz
vein aimed at extending the exposure of vein to the east
increasing the flexibility of the mining operation. The vein
structures across Kilimapesa Gold have been historically
worked in places and results indicate grade continuity.
Following extensive resource drilling, to expand the
resource beyond the current underground development
both along strike and at depth, we raised the total
underground JORC-Compliant gold resource estimate to
8,292,613 tonnes at 2.44 g/t gold ('Au') for 649,804
ounces Au at a cut-off grade of 1 g/t Au. This represents
a 402,320 ounces Au or 162% increase from previously
published JORC-Compliant 3,133,613 tonnes at 2.46 g/t
gold for 247,484 ounces Au announced in May 2012.
Importantly the resource limits remain open and we aim to
continue to extend the current known limits of
mineralisation on strike and in depth.
From the 649,804 ounces Au, a JORC-Compliant mineral
resource, 531,631 ounces Au at an average grade of 2.43
g/t at a 1 g/t cut-off covers the 1.2km strike length over
the Kilimapesa Hill target area. This is contained within
three sub-parallel east-west trending quartz veins intruded
into Archaean Banded Iron Formation and basaltic country
rocks. The main mineralisation is contained within the
quartz veins, which lie within a low grade halo in the
bounding country rocks. Access to the orebody is via a
northerly developed horizontal adit, that has intersected
the east-west trending quartz veins on which reef drives
and raises have been developed.
In particular, work has been carried out at the new Adit D,
which lies 60 metres vertically below Adit B, and will
contribute significantly to the increase of available ore 
at Kilimapesa Hill, as well as increasing mining tonnages
as part of the ramp up to 10,000 ounces per annum.
Underground development continues to progress well with
an exposed and sampled combined strike length over the
two main auriferous quartz veins of 425 metres. Selected
rock chip sampling stretch values include 13.55 g/t over
an average width of 1.27 metres across 54 metres of strike
and 8.65 g/t over an average width of 1.50 metres over a
strike of 57 metres. 
At the Vim/Rutha and Red Ray target areas 21 holes for a
total of 921 metres and 13 holes drilled for a total of 650
metres have been drilled at each target respectively. 
A maiden resource has been declared over the Red Ray
area of 118,173 ounces Au at an average grade of 2.48
g/t at a cut-off of 1 g/t. A further drilling programme has
been completed at Red Ray designed to extend the
resource strike limits to 2.5km – assay results are pending
with an update scheduled for Q3 2012. 
Anumso Gold Exploration (previously the Banka Gold
Project) – Ghana – 90% interest
In line with our strategy of developing brownfield sites, we
continue to advance the 29 sq km Anumso Gold
Exploration licence, located in the highly prospective
Amansie East and Asante Akim South Districts of the
Ashanti Region of the Republic of Ghana, 10km southwest
of Newmont’s 14 million ounces Akyem gold deposit. The
current non-JORC compliant resource is 262,107 ounces
of gold to a depth of 100 metres, however, we believe there
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6
GOLDPLAT Annual Report 2012
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT 
(CONTINUED)
“We have reached multiple milestones
during the period, including the first 
gold pour at the new Kilimapesa gold
mine in Kenya” is significant potential to upgrade and increase this with infill
drilling and increase the depth of drilling to 250 metres.
Previous diamond core drilling programmes defined
significant high grade gold intersections located within a
broad low grade mineralised zone along a 4 km strike with
surface outcropping. Results include best intersections of
0.8m at 13.2g/t gold and 1m at 11.30 g/t of gold and
historical mine records suggest artisanal miners were
exploiting a gold resource estimated to be at a grading of
up to 26.9 g/t gold.
A 33 hole 6,125 metre drilling exploration programme
commenced on 22 November 2011 aimed at converting
and supplementing the existing gold resource to a JORC
compliant status. The drilling programme is now complete
with all the assay results due in October 2012. Importantly,
the continuation of mineralised Tarkwaian conglomerates
has been confirmed, underlining the prospectivity of the
project. The final results will be collated and a suitable
action plan communicated. 
Nyieme Licence - Burkina Faso
The 246 sq km Nyieme project is located in the prospective
Birimian Greenstone Belt in southern Burkina Faso, West
Africa. A 3,100 metre drilling programme was undertaken
in 2011, which defined a resource of 1,395,000 tonnes at
2.06g/t gold for 92,589 ounces. This focussed on the
Nyieme Village high grade zone, which was extended at
depth and to the north. Multiple additional anomalous
zones were identified up to 15 metre thick. Additionally,
four newly discovered mineralised zones were identified in
the A1 zone, 1.5km south of the Nyieme Village Zone.
Goldplat is now constructing a work programme to target
additional areas of economic potential. This will include drill
testing the northerly extension of the Nyieme Village Zone,
the gap between the Nyieme Village Zone and the A1 Zone,
and the four zones at the A1 Zone, which remain open to
the north and south. It also aims to drill test the depth
extensions of the zones at A1 Zone, investigate the D Zone
for a possible new zone and drill artisanal workings located
3 km to the south of the A1 Zone. Further exploration work
will be conducted on the extension of considerable
artisanal workings immediately south of the Nyieme
Licence as well as other targets that were highlighted after
the initial early 2011 soil sampling programme. In addition,
a regional structural mapping and geophysical programme
is being considered.
We are also in discussions with other licence holders within
the Nyieme project vicinity regarding joint venture and
consolidation opportunities to increase our geographic
footprint in the country. 
OUTLOOK
Goldplat is developing into a very exciting, robust gold
company that is profitable, debt free and has a realistic
growth trajectory which I believe will significantly enhance
shareholder value. With revenue generated from three
separate areas, I am confident that our growth will continue
and we will build on our current value. If you evaluate us
on a cash basis we are currently trading on a PE of
approximately 6 which is a huge discount to our peers, and
the payment of dividends distinguishes Goldplat further still
from other companies in the junior mining sector. We have
a strong asset base and are looking to reinforce our
business through the enlargement of our gold recovery
business and the Kilimapesa mine in Kenya, as well as by
the definition of further ounces and the bringing into
production of our extremely promising brownfield sites.
Once again our management and staff in all the countries
where we operate deserve the thanks of the Board and
shareholders for their dedicated and successful efforts on
behalf of the Group. 
Finally and by no means least, I would like to thank Demetri
Manolis for his exceptional work in building Goldplat into
the company it is today. He has achieved what he set out
to do and has decided to hand over the reins to Russell
Lamming, who brings with him, international finance and
mining experience. Demetri will stay as a consultant to the
Company and I look forward to working with him and
Russell to ensure that the success and growth of Goldplat
is maintained over the coming years. 
BRIAN MORITZ – CHAIRMAN
28 September 2012
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
7
GOLDPLAT Annual Report 2012
Gold Recovery rotary kiln, South Africa
