 5
Overview
A year ago Goldshield embarked on a radical restructuring of its business. During many years of
rapid growth, group infrastructure played catch-up as we recruited and adapted to try to cope with
ever greater business demands. This ad hoc approach had to stop and we needed to rethink our
structure and systems.
Our Interims in December were also the occasion for the ﬁrst statement from our non-executive
Chairman, Peter Brown, another very important step in the development of Goldshield.
Another top priority during the year was the reduction in our debt. I am pleased to report that 
our total bank debt and deferred acquisition costs have been reduced to £5.6 million at 31 March
from £21.6 million a year ago. In order to achieve this we reduced marginal activities, drove
operational efﬁciencies and concentrated on better cash management. Financially, the group is
now in a much better position to build for the future. 
I am pleased to announce our results for the year ended March 2004. Overall sales are 
£87.1 million (2003: £104.9 million). They are a touch better than previously anticipated. 
Pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax and amortisation (EBITA) were £13.8 million 
(2003: £19.9 million). The exceptional costs for the year were £1.2 million (2003: £1.0 million).
I am pleased to announce that the board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 2.5 pence (2003:
1.45 pence) bringing the total for the year to 3.5 pence (2003: 2.9 pence).
As part of our ongoing efforts to integrate businesses and provide them with focus, we have
reorganised them into smaller Strategic Units with a clearly deﬁned cost structure and grouped by
Channels of Distribution. The channels through which we distribute our products and services are:
Direct to Consumer, Retail, Hospital, Country Distributors and the yet to be established Out-
Licensing. We have also rescaled our operation in the USA giving us a better platform to build a
proﬁtable business in this lucrative market.
All units, whether they are product or service led, are now proﬁt centres. All support units are
working with a clear understanding of generating revenues over and above servicing internal
clients and contributing to the group bottom line.
The Group is introducing new performance pay systems based on parameters that are 
scientiﬁcally measurable in terms of quality and quantity deliverable. The focus is on lifetime
learning teams of entrepreneurs with the purpose of recruiting, retaining and enhancing the
customer base. This coupled with a new system of proﬁt accountability will have a signiﬁcant
impact on staff motivation.
Plans for developing a Goldshield Academy to enhance technical and management skills at all
levels have started. We are committed to recruit and develop people for both our immediate and
our future business competencies and as such this initiative is very high on our strategic agenda.
Our Indian operation, initially set up to handle outsourced processes from our operations in both
the US and Europe, has created a number of new opportunities. Our operations here have seen a
substantial expansion with over 500 staff located in Mumbai. We have been able to access high
quality staff at much lower cost than in the UK and US, taking advantage of the large numbers 
of well educated people, experienced in business and ﬂuent in English. We have recruited people
with many competencies other than call centres. These include medicine, commerce, IT and
inventory control. A signiﬁcant effort is being made to train these new staff, making sure they are
well versed in corporate goals, capable of operating with a focus on proﬁt and able to adapt to a
system that rewards well those staff able to achieve internal targets.
Our focus is to build a successful call centre business to serve Goldshield customers in Europe
and the USA and leverage this knowledge by assisting in the expansion of call centres owned 
by other companies. The total space available there will provide over 400 call centre, 250
managerial and over 160 training seats. In addition Goldshield is accessing the increasing
numbers of FDA and MHRA approved pharmaceutical plants in India. We will leverage these low
cost manufacturing capabilities by contract manufacturing our products for sale in India, Europe,
United States and other international markets which include the Middle East, South Africa 
and Australasia.
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review 6
Marketing and Sales Review
Direct to Consumer – Europe
Sales declined to £18.0 million (£22.1million 2003). Much of the decline is attributed to a
maturing of the market and a shortage of new customers. However we have made good progress
in the last six months in this important channel of distribution. Sales here have stabilised and the
decline halted. 
A new telemarketing Centre was established in India in May 2003. Since this time we have
enhanced our customer relationship approach, resulting in increased customer values and loyalty.
We have now undertaken a strategic review of the business and as a result have become more
customer orientated. We have also established a more focused customer recruitment group to
enhance our database.
The Internet business continues to grow and now represents over 10% of all orders processed.
More initiatives are being developed to maximise the returns from the Internet. The French
business continues to grow and during this period doubled its income through mailing and
advertising activity. At the end of this year we moved our French Call Centre to France in order to
move closer to our customers and optimise service levels.
During the year, gross margins have increased through improved purchasing on key lines, selective
introduction of price increases and the introduction of premium high margin products.
Retail Generic – Europe
The UK generics market has became increasing competitive. We are still primarily UK led in 
this distribution channel, however our European options are being evaluated. Despite tough
competition, our generic business grew 11% over the previous year with sales of £8.8 million
(2003: £7.9 million).
Inventory management issues and lower selling prices limited growth. Better focus on the 
product mix, coverage and customer loyalty plan helped increase sales. New product launches,
improvement in customer service levels and better management of cost will drive this business in
the future.
Hospital – Europe 
The hospital business in Europe has achieved sales of £12.7 million (2003: £11.1 million), an
increase of 14% over the previous year. 
The core of this business remains the Antigen injectables product range in the UK and Ireland
accounting for some 80% of its turnover. This element of our business was up 8% on the previous
year with growth mainly due to extension of some existing NHS contracts and award of some 
new ones.
Remodulin, prescribed for pulmonary arterial hypertension on a ‘named patient’ basis (due to not
having completed registration in the UK), was subject to pricing negotiations with the NHS,
resulting in a doubling of patients treated.
Following the recent granting of European marketing rights to Goldshield by Indigo Orb Inc. USA
of their spring loaded Autodetect Syringe for Epidural Procedures, a pilot study is planned in the
UK prior to an autumn launch. This is the ﬁrst step in developing a total hospital service provision
extending beyond just injectable pharmaceutical products. 
The European business has seen the biggest growth with sales up 91% to £0.9 million. The
supply problems with controlled drugs, particularly Pethidine, has impacted similarly on this
business with delays of orders which would have pushed the sales up further. Whilst many of
these issues have now been resolved, we are focused on putting safeguards in place to prevent a
reoccurrence in the future. 
The Goldshield oncology business was up 9% to £1.6 million. This growth was due to
Methotrexate contract awards for both injectable and solid dose presentations. As reported in the
Interim Statement, this year also saw the ﬁrst award for an in-house developed oncology product
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
(continued) 7
complementing the products acquired from Wyeth. Within the coming year we will launch two
further in house developed oncology products into the UK market, with introductions into other
markets outside the UK planned.
Direct to Consumer – North America
During the period, we have reorganised our business in North America into two business units,
Goldshield Elite which focuses on multilevel marketing and Goldshield Direct which carries out
mailing and telemarketing activities. As reported earlier, we undertook considerable consolidation
here and our total operations here have been trimmed down signiﬁcantly. We had earlier in the
year sold our  products containing Ephedra, which together with rationalisation of other peripheral
activities had a marked impact on our sales which closed at £10.9 million. (2003: £26.8
million). The sales are now stable in the last 3 months and we have started the recovery process.
We are determined to build our presence here.
Since inception in June 2003, Goldshield Elite’s membership crossover from Changes
International, Golden Pride International/W.T . Rawleigh and Achievers Unlimited was slower than
anticipated. However, it increased during the ﬁrst quarter of 2004 due to various enrolment
campaigns offered to current members. Elite is in the process of consolidating all companies into
one. We expect to complete this by the end of June 2004.
Elite has adopted a new Corporate Customer Creation campaign to enrol new members. An
outbound sales campaign originating from India and a mini-web page email campaign originating
from the US will form the basis of this recruitment drive which aims to enrol 500,000 new
Members by 2010. Both campaigns were released on 1 June 2004.
Goldshield Direct, which was formed after merging PR Nutrition and Advanced Nutritional
Products, has started on recruiting new customers through outbound telemarketing campaigns
from India. This business is about a third of the size of Goldshield Elite.
Retail Brands – Europe
Sales in Retail Brands Europe reached £32.6 million this year, almost level with the previous 
year at £32.9 million. Sales in the UK increased from £22.2 million to £22.4 million, whilst in
Europe, sales declined from £10.7 million to £10.2 million.The majority of this decline is due 
to a combination of delays in technical transfers and out-of-stock situations.
In the UK, the Dispensing Doctor sales operation grew by 15% over the previous year. In January,
the Representatives started promoting Flexeze, a Glucosamine/Chondroitin product to General
Practitioners. The changes in the NHS resulted in more work focusing on Nurses, now an
important source of inﬂuence, who prescribe several Goldshield products. The Own Label business
has shown an increase in sales of 62% from £1.6 million to £2.6 million. In Ireland, traditional
Goldshield products have shown a 9% growth. 
In Europe, we have obtained a registration for Flexeze Capsules in Hungary and sales are expected
shortly. In Poland, we have submitted a registration for Flexeze Gel and in Kosovo, 8 registrations
were submitted for a variety of pharmaceutical products. As a result of Malta joining the EU, we
have had to register our products and we submitted 26 registrations. During the year, we have
identiﬁed many opportunities in the retail sector throughout Europe, which we will capitalise on.
Over the last year, the major change in the business has been the move away from a purely
prescription product business to one which markets a wider range of the Group’s products actively
through the retail channel and secondly to focus the unit on being a European wide business
ready for the expansion of the EU.
Country Distributors – Rest of World
This part of our portfolio saw a 3% decline in sales at £3.8million (2003: £3.9 million). Whilst
the Smith Kline Beecham (SKB) acquired products, which still account for more than 50% of this
Channel’s sales, grew by 11% it did not compensate for the downward sales trend in the Antigen
and Regina product sales. 8
South Africa was a source of excellent growth of over 63% over last year with Ecotrin (enteric
coated aspirin) remaining the leading product in its class for preventative use post-myocardial
infarction, coupled with the launch into the GP sector of various Flexeze (glucosamine)
formulations. Sales in Pakistan were up 34% fuelled by local sales growth across the SKB product
range. Australia/New Zealand saw a 15% growth attributable to the Goldshield product range 
and the last quarter saw preparations being ﬁnalized for the re-launch of Ecotrin in the New Year.
Thailand, which last year saw sales restricted due to product availability, recovered as soon as
supplies recommenced.
Regina business, which is mostly dependent on Duty Free Sales in the Far East, was down 18%
despite increased sales resulting from product inclusion with Thai Airways. The sales continued to
be hit by lower passenger air trafﬁc post the SARS epidemic and compounded during the year by
world-wide shortages in supply of raw material. 
Services – Global
This is a very new area of business for us. During the last 18 months of consolidation,
management restructure and the move of some of our back ofﬁce functions to India, we have
developed many competencies in the service sector. Most of these are simply an extension of what
is required for better functioning of our internal operations. Since all our service functions have
been broken down into smaller proﬁt centre units, it makes sense to offer these services externally
from our low cost base in India. In addition to incremental revenues, it will bring in better learning
and provide benchmarking against standards of others.
Whilst this is not our core business, we expect revenues to increase in the coming months.
Product Development
As part of the overall reorganisation, we have taken a fresh look at how Product Development
functions within the group. In order to fully maximise the potential of our acquired and own
developed products, we have created two product groups. Both of these are focused on their core
competencies which centre around the ability to get product registered and approved for sale. 
The unlicensed product group focuses on products that require minimum registrations and are 
a lot quicker to market, whilst the licensed product group manages the traditional prescription
product portfolio.
Both these groups will not only aim to maximize sales through all the internal Business Units but
also form relationships with external customers and promote out-licensing and sales of Goldshield
products under ‘own label’ supply. These groups are responsible for researching and developing
new products, increasing existing product leverage and developing marketing plans for all new and
selected existing products to be implemented by the internal Business Units. 
Within the unlicensed product group, we already have several exciting products in the pipeline,
focusing less on ‘me too’ and more on innovative and unique formulations, several of which will
be selected to undergo clinical evaluation in the coming months.
The focus for the Group with respect to Product Development for Licensed products over the 
last 12 months has been to consolidate the large number of product acquisitions made prior 
to March 2002. Effort has largely been concerned with transferring production into new
manufacturing sites to ensure long term continuity of supplies. This has involved the co-ordination
of Technical and Regulatory activity for these transfers especially on the signiﬁcant number of
injectable licenses acquired through the purchase of Antigen Pharmaceuticals. Despite the focus
on product transfers, the licensed product group has over the last 12 months, submitted product
license applications for 12 new molecules each representing a number of different presentations.
A number of new product licences have also been granted within European and some
International markets. The number of approvals achieved was less than our target, mainly as a
result of internal problems within the authorities.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
(continued) 9
Current Trading and Future Prospects
This year we will conclude the restructuring of the Group. We can then return to organic growth
and acquisitions. We now have a high-quality, highly-motivated team whose remuneration is
closely linked to their performance. Each business unit is tightly focused on its products and
markets. Our goal still remains that of better cash management. We expect to be debt free during
the current year. There is a great temptation to focus on immediate and short term results.
Nevertheless it is right to continue with the process of change started last year. I am conﬁdent
that with a better balance sheet, a more organised and efﬁcient infrastructure and a better quality
and motivated team, sales growth will resume during 2005/06 ﬁnancial year.
There is nothing new to report on either the SFO investigation or the DoH litigation. An update 
on the changes in the legal matters arising from our Irish acquisitions is set out in note 26 to the
ﬁnancial statements. We expect to continue defending our position until a proper and satisfactory
resolution has been achieved.
Ajit Patel
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
14 June 2004
