 5
Overview
I am delighted to announce a year of good results for the year ended 31 March 2005. The Group
has also made further progress over the last 12 months. After two years of change and
rationalisation, we are now debt free and on target for future growth. Whilst there are still a
number of challenges ahead, I am confident on the company’s future prospects.
Overall sales were £84.0 million (2004: £87.1million). Pre-exceptional earnings before interest,
tax, amortisation and impairment losses (EBITA) were £16.7 million (2004: £13.8 million). 
The exceptional costs for the year were £1.0 million (2004: £1.2 million). The EBITA margin 
is marginally ahead of our expectation and largely a result of a lag in marketing and sales
investment. The net cash at the year end was £6.2 million.
I am pleased to announce that the Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.5 pence (2004:
2.5 pence) bringing the total to 6.0 pence (2004: 3.5 pence).
During the year we have continued to work on the litigation front with the Department of Health
(DoH) and have fully assisted the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) in their investigation. We maintain
our belief that we did not act in any way that was unlawful or improper. We continue to defend
our position vigorously. Over the last three years the investigation has been a great burden on the
Company and its executives. We remain as keen as ever, for a speedy conclusion so that we can
all return our energies to developing the future of Goldshield.
During the year we implemented a performance pay scheme. This is based on parameters that 
are measurable and rewards sales and profit growth. This has benefited all of our associates
across the world. Whilst it is early days, the response so far has been very positive. The focus 
is on nurturing and developing entrepreneurs who will be empowered and rewarded for running
their own small to medium sized businesses within the Goldshield Group.
In line with our vision of developing a global network of entrepreneurs we have created an online
Knowledge Management Platform. This provides an instant and common plug-in for all our
associates across the globe. This allows them to work from anywhere in the world and gain
instant access to all of the Group’s knowledge and information sources at the click of a button.
We believe it will revolutionise the way we work and enhance our ability to recruit and retain
entrepreneurs. This will make Goldshield a truly competitive, global organisation. 
The move to India of most of our operational back office and critical functions is now complete and
already bearing fruit. We now have over 700 high quality associates based in India. This gives the
company a new, more competitive culture and fresh momentum. Goldshield has now developed a
reputation as one of the premier employers in Mumbai, the commercial capital of India.
The radical restructuring of our business that began two years ago is now almost complete. There
are still a number of other reorganisational changes in the pipeline. We expect to see these coming
through towards the end of the next financial year. We had originally expected to see an uplift in
sales and profits from the restructuring in the next financial year. However, I now feel that we were
slightly optimistic about the time scale required to implement these organisational changes.
Marketing and Sales Review 
Hospital – Europe 
The hospital business in Europe achieved sales of £12.2 million against £12.7 million last 
year. A marginal decline in sales is attributed mainly to regulatory delays and resulting stock
availability. Towards the end of the year the UK distribution model was changed. This reduced
the stock holding in the market place, adding to a temporary reduction in sales.
The new process of distribution will provide a greater degree of control over the supply to
hospitals. We have already seen the benefits through a marked reduction in hospital out-of-stock
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review 6
claims. The change in NHS purchasing from Regional contracts to a single national tender in
November 2004 saw the cancellation of several regional product contracts which adversely hit
the top line. This system is due to be replaced again in 2005 with another Multi-tender system.
The Oncology business grew by 25% over the year, and Remodulin continued its good first half
performance with sales finishing at £1.3 million (2004: £0.7 million). In total, the UK business
accounted for £11.2 million (2004: £11.1 million).
The European business failed to build on its growth last year achieving sales of £0.4 million
(2004: £0.9 million). The major problem was that product supply was restricted by pending
regulatory approvals for new supply sources. Similar delays were seen in Ireland where sales 
were down to £0.6 million (2004: £0.7 million). The prospects for the Hospital business for 
the coming year remain strong.
During the year, we launched Ranitidine Injection, which is the first generic of its kind in the 
UK market. We will be launching Autodetect syringes for Epidural Procedures with significant
promotional activity at all major European Anaesthetic conferences. On the back of French
registration of Remodulin, we are expecting registration for the UK during the next few months. 
Retail Generics – Europe
The sales for this unit were up 10.2% at £9.7 million as against £8.8 million last year.
Overall the UK generics market has remained stagnant over the year. Competition has been
intense and therefore prices are at an all time low. In spite of this situation the unit has remained
focused and kept itself away from pricing pressure with an emphasis on efficiencies and
maintaining a balanced product portfolio.
In an attempt to improve the performance for the coming year, the unit has been segmented into
smaller divisions. This should result in an increase in focus, flexibility and allow the team to make
quicker and more informed decisions. The existing telemarketing team is being doubled and will
be more focused towards building a strong, sustainable model of Retail business.
Our new marketing initiatives have resulted in us seeing much higher volumes of orders from
wholesale buyers. Our Own Brand business has been helped through our better understanding of
market dynamics which has created more niche opportunities. Goldshield is still primarily UK led
in this distribution channel. Talks with potential European partners are underway and we are
confident of achieving entry in these markets in the near future.
Retail Brands – Europe 
Sales in Retail Brands Europe reached £33.8 million this year, an increase of 3.4% on the
previous year at £32.6 million. Sales in the UK were flat at £22.3 million, whilst in Europe 
they increased from £10.2 million to £11.5 million, an increase of 11.8 %.
In the UK, the Dispensing Doctor sales operation grew by 20% over the previous year. This is as
a result of targeting key decision makers with products such as Codipar, Macrobid, Zapain and
Flexeze. During the year we launched Stelazine Forte Syrup, a line extension to complement the
Stelazine range.
Own label sales have decreased slightly from £2.6 million to £2.3 million. One of the key
challenges faced during the year has been the introduction of the new PPRS scheme. The scheme
has resulted in a 7% price reduction from January 2005. Irish sales increased by 13.9% from
£3.6 million last year to £4.1 million, with new product launches as the main driver. The OTC
business has shown an increase of 8% to £1.2 million. This is due mainly to better stock
management and new product introductions. 
Sales in Western Europe increased from £5.6 million to £6.1 million and in Central Europe from
£0.9 million to £1.1 million. During the year we obtained registrations for Econac suppositories in
Finland and Denmark and for 8 new products in Kosovo. We have a number of new registered
products ready to launch over the next twelve months and the outlook for this unit is good.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Operating Review
(continued) 7
Country Distributors – Rest of World 
The unit recorded sales of £4.1 million against £3.8 million for the previous year – a growth of
7.9%. 
The South African market has led this growth with two major products, Ecotrin and Flexeze,
growing market shares by 20% and 50% respectively. New registrations coupled with the new
distributors and expanding business in territories like Vietnam and Taiwan will help us to achieve
growth next year. The Middle Eastern business which is mainly comprised of injectable products,
suffered during the year due to inventory related problems.
In all, over 80 registrations for new products have been submitted with regulatory bodies in
various countries. These new products once registered will increase our opportunities for growth.
All future launches of new products will be through our specific distribution channels which we
will identify from their strengths to allow us to maintain a greater focus and accountability.
Services – Global 
For this relatively new unit the year has been one of progression and development. The majority 
of the year has been spent on building competencies in helping smaller businesses transfer their
back office processes to India. We have focused on putting procedures in place and developing
models to ensure clients’ expectations are exceeded and Service Level Agreements met keeping in
mind the Global standards.
The unit finished the year on revenues above £1.4 million. Having started the year with just one
project, we finished with four showing a growth in revenues of more than 25%.
Associate attrition remains an industry wide problem as the number of companies transferring
their back office operations to India increases. We are focused on training our staff for the present
and the future. We are keen to ensure their readiness to shoulder responsibility as well as to
provide value addition and more opportunities for growth. As a result the attrition level within the
unit has been controlled and a more stable team developed.
The prospects for the Global Services division are very healthy. The unit expects to add a few
more small to medium sized projects to the existing portfolio as well as increasing the size of 
the current ones. 
Direct to Consumer 
India 
Demand for quality natural healthcare products has grown dramatically over the past few years.
Indications show that this demand should continue to accelerate in the future. Goldshield will
commence its Direct to Consumer operations in India in the first quarter of next year. This is in
line with the Group’s long-term strategy of continued expansion in international markets.
The initial launch in India will focus on offering a range of ‘Just 4 You’ tailor-made products and
services. The initial product will be a tailor-made nutritional support program. This will involve a
personalised health assessment. Based on the assessment, products will be recommended and
designed to meet the customer’s need for nutritional support.
North America 
The North American business achieved sales of £6.8 million this year against £10.9 million from
the two units last year. The year ended in line with expectations. Going forward, we expect a
small increase in sales next year. 
Goldshield Direct has just finished its final stage of restructuring. The unit now has 95% of its
operational, management and marketing staff working from India. We are committed to keeping
and rewarding those strategic associates that drive the growth of the company.  8
We have identified a number of potential opportunities for Goldshield Direct. The Unit has recently
become very proactive in the development of its online presence and establishing a marketing
strategy to support its growth. This new financial year will also see the launch of a pet nutritional
product line. Other opportunities for the unit come from the development of a Health Benefits
Product and also the focus of Health Assessments to create loyalty with the customers.
The last twelve months has seen both consolidation and change within the Goldshield Elite unit.
It has come up against a number of challenges, most notably the loss of sales resulting from the
ban of ephedra containing products and the successful merger of three companies into Elite.
We are constantly evaluating ways in which we can continue to offer new and innovative products
to our customers. Testing and researching advanced products, as well as updating our current
lines, remains at the forefront of our business development.
We are beginning to see an increase in the number of people looking for supplementary income.
This is an area of focus for this business. In comparison to other direct sales businesses,
Goldshield Elite is well placed to benefit from this increase. We have a very attractive pay plan
structure and our rewards scheme is aggressive yet achievable which makes the businesses
attractive on both a full or part-time basis.
Europe 
The Direct to Consumer business in Europe has achieved sales of £16.0 million against £18.0
million the previous year. Market conditions remained tough both in business and regulatory
terms. Despite seeing growth in the average order value, there were reductions in both the
number of new customers and order frequency.
The year started with a mandate to expand the management base. New Divisional Heads and a
new Head of Strategy have been appointed. Successfully achieving such an extensive change was
a challenge. We have now split the overall business into six units to give more focus to the
different elements of this very strategic part of our business. Six new Business Unit Heads are
now in place and with the new perspectives we hope to see a reversal in recent trends. 
In the year ahead, we plan to intensify our internet marketing and several new products will be
launched. In addition we will be launching a new health insurance plan. On the back of our
success in France, where sales grew by 17%, we will launch small scale operations in both The
Netherlands and Germany.
Product Development 
The two units created to maximise the potential of our acquired and in-house developed products
are performing very well. Both are focussed on their core competencies of product registration and
approval processes. These groups are responsible for researching and developing new products,
increasing existing product leverage and developing marketing plans for new and selected existing
products. 
The focus with respect to the Licensed Product Group has been to identify new products and
business opportunities in order to drive growth. The unit has developed a range of liquid
formulations targeted at the palliative care market. It has identified several product opportunities
for either development and/or in-licensing. It has also identified several opportunities to Out-
License products and new business opportunities in the Clinical Research Services.
Within the unlicensed group, the focus has been on ensuring existing product compliance with EU
Directives as well as developing high margin and effective products to promote movement away
from the current price competitive product portfolio. The unit has identified Ayurvedic and Pet
lines as new opportunities for the future.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Operating Review
(continued) 9
Current Trading and Future Prospects 
We continue to assist the SFO and the Department of Health in their wider inquiries while
maintaining our firm belief that we did not act in an unlawful manner. We remain as keen as ever
for a speedy conclusion so that we can turn all our energies to developing the future of Goldshield.
Despite the considerable distractions of these enquiries, over the past 3 years the company has
been largely restructured with the move of many of the operational functions to India and the
implementation of a performance related pay scheme. The company is now in a much stronger
financial position as a consequence of strong cash generation, resulting in a net cash position of
£6.2 million at the year end. We are currently evaluating several new opportunities involving both
product acquisitions and start ups, as well as the launch in India of our Direct to consumer unit.
We remain cautiously optimistic about the outcome for the current year, but are increasingly
confident about the longterm future of the group.
Ajit Patel
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
13 June 2005
