 5
Introduction
It is my pleasure to report on the year ended 31 March 2006. I am delighted with the ﬁnancial
achievements during the year as well as progress made in operations and the future strategic
direction of the Group.
Our overall aims for the year were to maintain the current business, to build cash reserves and 
to develop new strategies to support future growth. This is the ﬁrst year that the company is
reporting in accordance with the new IFRS’s standards. For that reason, the sales and Proﬁt and
Loss accounts for previous years have been adjusted. In line with our aim for the year, I am
pleased to report that sales have been maintained at the same level as last year at £80.0 million.
Proﬁt before tax was ahead of last year at £6.8 million (2005: £4.5 million). Pre-exceptional
earnings before tax, amortisation and impairment losses (EBTA) were ahead of last year at £17.3
million (2005: £16.3 million). The exceptional costs for the year were £1.7 million (2005: £1.0
million). The net cash at the end of the year was £15.9 million (2005: £6.2 million).
Based on the results, I am pleased to announce that the Board is recommending a dividend of 5.1
pence (2005: 4.5 pence). The dividend paid during the year was 6.2 pence (2005: 4.0 pence).
In addition to maintaining and developing the current business, to be known as “Wellbeing
Products” and building cash reserves, a comprehensive review of strategic options for the future
has been completed. We have decided to extend the sphere of our activity and focus on the
market for Wellbeing services to include Wellbeing Clinics, Wellbeing Resorts and Wellbeing
Villages. These services are explained in more detail below.
The Indian economy is growing rapidly, attracting foreign direct investments at unprecedented
levels. India has been predicted to become the World’s third largest economy. Signiﬁcantly, for a
provider of healthcare services, the Indian population has a much younger age proﬁle than those of
the other large economies. With our managerial infrastructure now established in India, it makes
sense for us to concentrate our energies in this region over the next ﬁve years. Accordingly, the
overall strategy for the short to medium term will be to maintain the current Wellbeing Products
business. The initial wellbeing centres will be ﬁnanced from the Group’s existing cash ﬂows.
The last four years have been the most turbulent in our Group’s history. However, we are focusing
our resources on the business areas of the future. The Company still faces a number of
challenges; in particular we have to clear ourselves of the charges brought against the Company,
myself and Kirti Patel, by the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce. In relation to this matter, I am grateful for the
continuing support and conﬁdence shown by many shareholders as well as the Group Board
Directors. Despite these challenges, we remain conﬁdent that over the next few years the Group
will deliver signiﬁcant progress.
Operations
The emphasis during the year has been on maintaining the current business, building cash reserves
and evaluating our future options for growth. During the year we experienced failed transfers on
products earlier acquired from Wyeth. This resulted in a revenue loss in excess of £1.5 million. 
In our UK NHS business, we suffered an enforced price reduction of 7% from the Department of
Health (DoH). Despite these difﬁculties the overall sales for the year were similar to last year at
£80.0 million. Proﬁt before tax was ahead of last year at £6.8 million (2005: £4.5 million). Pre-
exceptional EBTA for the year was ahead of last year at £17.3 million (2005: £16.3 million).
The sales for our Hospitals business in Europe were £11.1 million (2005: £12.0 million), despite
loss of revenue resulting from product transfer failures. New product development has been slow
although three new products were launched during the period. One of which the Ranitidine
injection received immediate adoption via the tender system. On the other hand Autodetect and
Noseeze, two new medical devices will require more marketing and sales support to grow. Our
range of differentiated Bupivacaine epidural infusions have received DoH and NPSA endorsement
resulting in a large number of NHS trusts preparing to switch to our infusions. This should lead to
increased sales over the next few months.
The Retail Generics business recorded sales of £9.5 million as against £9.7 million last year. This
was achieved despite increased competition. Whilst volumes increased, the value and proﬁtability
declined. Going forward we will put less emphasis on volumes and greater emphasis on margins
which will result a reduction in sales revenue.
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review 6
Our European Retail Brands business, despite an enforced price reduction of 7% in the UK by the
DoH, has continued to deliver the expected results with sales of £32.3 million (2005: £30.9
million). Codipar, a key product has shown a steady rise in sales from £0.5 million to £1.8
million as a result of increased promotion throughout the year. Fenbid Gel range, Nitrofurantoin
Suspension, Fersamal Syrup and the Cytacon range have shown a positive growth. The launch of
Ostex, a high dose Glucosamine product in the second half of the year enhanced sales. The
Dispensing Doctor team has had another good year with sales increasing by 18%. 
Opportunities have been identiﬁed to bring some of the health food supplements into Retail
Pharmacy starting with Lubramine and Lubramine G in June 2006. Line extensions to the Mother
and Baby range are planned in the ﬁrst half of next year including our ﬁrst “device” product, the
Kamillosan baby soother thermometer, and Kamillosan nappy cream.
The North American Direct to Consumer businesses continue to be fairly ﬂat, however proﬁtability
has improved. We did marginally improve on the new customer recruitment front which has
helped stabilize the overall sales and proﬁtability. The market has become more generic in nature
and hence in the coming year we will spend time evaluating options for more branded products.
In India, where we are currently test marketing, the results have been mixed and it is too early to
comment.
Both the Country Distributor and the Third Party Services businesses continue to perform on
target. With increased resource allocation and new management teams in place, both these
businesses will see better performance during the next year or so. 
Our back ofﬁce operations in Mumbai, India are now well established. Going forward we will
maintain our regional head ofﬁce in Mumbai, which is the main commercial hub of India.
However to counteract rising inﬂation and costs that are occurring throughout India, we have
acquired more ofﬁce space in Goa for future expansion.
Future Developments
Our new initiative of building “Wellbeing Villages” across India is well under way. These villages
will cater for the Wellbeing of active people over the age of 50. Each village will have facilities
including a hospital, nursing home, restaurants, shops, along with sports and leisure amenities. 
It will also include a hotel for short stay visitors, residents’ friends and relatives. Various levels of
assistance, including domestic and nursing care will be available not just to residents of the village
but the wider community at large. Our target customers will include people from various
demographics both Indian and overseas. 
The land for the ﬁrst project, measuring over 1,000,000 square feet, has been acquired in South
Goa. The total project size, to be built in phases and subject to milestones, will be in excess of
750,000 square feet of built up area. The ﬁrst phase of over 250,000 square feet is expected to
complete before the end December 2007. 
Our aim is to build several of these Wellbeing Villages in various locations in India over the coming
years. Therefore we will commence a land acquisition programme during the next 12 months. 
The second initiative of building Wellbeing Centres across India has also commenced. The larger
Wellbeing Centres will be located in major population areas and will provide facilities to include
Health and Beauty, Homeopathic, Ayurvedic, Dental, Opthalmic, Skin, Diet, and Fitness related
services. Smaller clinics providing basic diagnostic services will strategically be located in smaller
towns and villages. 
The ﬁrst Wellbeing Centre is on target to open in Mumbai in the autumn of 2006. Based on
milestones, we expect to open a total of 24 centres and clinics in the next 36 months. The main
customer groups being targeted are corporate clients for their employees, families and local
communities and insurance companies for their clients. 
The last of the initiatives, Wellbeing Resorts, will target a new breed of medical tourist. Tourists
who are looking to combine holidays with medical services to save both time and cost. The land,
measuring about 810,000 square feet, to build the ﬁrst dedicated resort of its kind in India, has
been acquired in South Goa. This project is due to commence building by December 2006 and
the ﬁrst phase is expected to be completed by December 2007. It will house a Medical Centre,
Spa, a Hotel and Leisure Facilities. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review
(continued) 7
The ﬁrst phase of this project will provide 100 rooms with a total built up area of 150,000 square
feet with the capacity to build up to 500,000 square feet if required. The main target customers
will be European as well as wealthy Indians. Whilst wishing to take full advantage of the
opportunities within the rapidly growing Indian market your management is very conscious of the
risks of over expansion and will adopt a conservative ﬁnancing strategy. We will also seek to ensure
that the individual business models are established and viable before rolling out other sites.
As reported in my last review, we have undertaken a review of our product development. Whilst
this process is not entirely complete, we have reorganized the Group so that it is more marketing
driven. To that extent we are building a more marketing focused management team. We expect
this to be in place during 2006. Our aim is to develop more branded products with more “Fast
Moving Consumer Products” approach.
I would like to thank Peter Brown for his support and sound advice during his Chairmanship and
am pleased that he is able to continue to serve in a Non-Executive capacity. 
Current Trading and Prospects
The current business redeﬁned as, Wellbeing Products, is expected to perform at similar levels
during the next 12 months, with renewed focus on building brands. Signiﬁcant resources are now
being directed at the new initiatives whilst continuing to keep the cash ﬂow from current
business healthy.
The year ahead is very exciting and challenging. We have done extensive preliminary legal work
on both the SFO and the DoH cases in the last four years. The expected date of the hearing has
been delayed until 2008 and so we can now concentrate all our energies on building the Group’s
future and developing the new initiatives. 
Despite the difﬁculties of the past four years, all the members of the Board of your Company are
very excited about our new initiatives and their signiﬁcant prospects for growth.
Ajit Patel
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
26 June 2006
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review
(continued)
