 The threat of legal action against the Company and two of its Directors for alleged conspiracy to
defraud arising out of the sale of warfarin in the late 1990’s has had a detrimental effect on the
share price. A substantial amount of Directors time and millions of pounds in legal fees have been
soaked up as a result. However, the major clients and shareholders have continued to support the
business and the management team which is to their great credit. 
Since my appointment we have addressed the problems the Company faces in order to establish
more certainty for the future. In this regard, on the 22 June 2007, without admission of liability,
we reached a £4.0 million full and ﬁnal settlement with the Department of Health (DoH). We are
also pursuing through the Court of Appeal our belief that the “crime” the Company is charged with,
which we do not believe we committed, is not in fact a criminal offence. The Company is also
seeking clariﬁcation as to its potential liability in the event that that argument is not successful.
In April 2007, we announced we were undertaking a strategic review of our business. Our
conclusions were that we focus once again on our core Pharmaceutical and Healthcare operations
which I expand on below.
A consequence of the litigation is that our CEO, and founder of the Company, Ajit Patel decided to
step down from the Board in order to have more time to prepare his defence. 
The other founding member of the Company Kirti Patel, has also handed his resignation to the
Board in order to have more ﬂexibility in preparing for his upcoming trial. However, we are pleased
he has agreed to work his notice period. His expertise and contacts will be of considerable help as
we re-energise this activity.  
The Board wish them both well and thank them wholeheartedly for their vision in setting up the
business and their personal commitment and dedication to its success.
We are delighted to announce that Rakesh Patel, our Finance Director has been appointed CEO.
He has 15 years experience within Goldshield, is well respected by the staff and known within the
city. I feel sure he will make a huge contribution to the Company’s growth over the coming years.
We are looking to make an early appointment of a new Finance Director to replace him.
Strategy review
The review of our activities demonstrated the considerable potential of the Pharmaceuticals and
Healthcare divisions. We have two strong activities which need management time and
commitment to ensure that they deliver on their potential. This “focus” will be an important
aspect of the development of our Company.
Within Pharmaceuticals, the major drug companies are selling off the products as their patent
expires. Over a number of years we have developed considerable experience of acquiring and
developing these products. Indeed, it is interesting to note that in the period since 2003 the
performance of our existing portfolio of products has only marginally declined. Yet this has been a
period of no new product acquisitions and when management time has been focused on other
parts of the Company. I would add that the relocation of some of our administrative activities to
India has helped Goldshield to maintain margins in a highly competitive environment. We believe
that this efﬁciency will be of value to Goldshield as we focus on growth.
In Healthcare, there is change within the UK and European regulatory environment. These new
changes place regulatory requirements on all UK and European organisations which will require
them to have access to medical and regulatory infrastructure which Goldshield already has in
place in its Pharmaceutical division. The Directors believe that this will be beneﬁcial to
Goldshield. In addition, some of our new products such as LIPObind, a Medicines and Healthcare
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) approved medical device, have attractive growth prospects. 
During its development, Goldshield has established an extensive distributor base. We now have
distribution channels in over sixty countries with access to doctors, pharmacies and hospitals. We
need to exploit this potential with the acquisition of more products and more marketing
commitment. It is a good opportunity for the Group. 
4
Chairman’s Overview 5
It has been decided that we will dispose of certain of our non-core Indian business and assets and
we have entered into an agreement with Ajit Patel for him to acquire these operations. A circular
with full details of these disposals is being sent to shareholders. 
Both the Wellbeing villages and the resort in Goa offer long term potential. As soon as planning
permissions have been obtained, we will consider co-developing the land under a joint venture.
We will therefore commit no further signiﬁcant resources to these operations.
In addition to the changes at executive Director level, two important retirements mean further
changes. Peter Brown, the former Chairman of the Board and Ken Pelton, the longest serving non-
executive Director, have each decided not to seek re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
They have provided an invaluable service to the Group, for which I would like to offer my sincerest
thanks.
We are delighted to announce the appointment of one new non-executive Director. Nick Woollacott,
a main board member of Latice Group plc (now merged with the National Grid) and until recently
the senior independent Director of Enterprise plc, is expected to join the Board in August, 2007.
He brings with him a wealth of experience and a history of success which will contribute to our
progress. We are also interviewing other candidates for non-executive Director positions.
Conclusion
The last few years have been demanding for shareholders. The DoH and SFO charges together with
the development of new activities in India have all been distractions away from the core business.
Yet, it has continued to perform well. I am conﬁdent that the combination of the decisions outlined
above together with re-focused attention on the Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare divisions will lead
to a return to growth.
Commentary on the results for the Group are contained in the Report of the Directors, pages 11 
to 16.
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM
Chairman
26 June 2007
Chairman’s Overview
(continued)
