 6
It is my pleasure to report on the year ended 31 March 2007. We have made some good progress
despite facing difﬁculties over the past 12 months. I would add that the settlement with the
Department of Health (DoH) comes at a very important time.  
Despite the challenges the Group has experienced over the past 12 months, we have continued to
make progress. The Group reported sales for the year of £74.3 million, which is lower than the
previous year of £80.0 million. We have announced a proﬁt before tax for the year of £0.6 million
(2006: £6.8 million). Pre-exceptional earnings before tax, amortisation and impairment losses
(EBTA) were below last year at £14.7 million (2006: £17.3 million). We have been impacted by
exceptional costs for the year primarily relating to legal costs of £5.6 million (2006: £1.7 million).
However, the business has continued to generate cash and at the year end the net cash position
had improved to £23.3 million (2006: £15.9 million).
Given the conﬁdence in the potential of the underlying business and the strong cash position, the
Board is recommending a dividend of 5.1 pence. The total dividend paid during the year has risen
to 6.8 pence. This is an increase of 0.6 pence from 2006.
The Group continues to deal with the ongoing Serious Fraud Ofﬁce investigation, which began in
April 2002. Going forward, we expect the next 18 months to be more demanding on myself, Kirti
Patel and other Directors as we prepare our defences which are expected to come to trial in
2008/9.
As shareholders will have seen, the strategic review has highlighted the Group’s potential. We have
concluded that we should focus on our core business of marketing and selling Pharmaceutical and
Healthcare products. We are proposing to divest ourselves of most of our service businesses with
the exception of the Wellbeing Clinics in India. Whilst the Indian Wellbeing villages and resort no
longer form part of the core strategy of the Company, the Directors believe that shareholder value
can be delivered by developing the Care village and resort sites in Goa by entering into a joint
venture development agreement. 
In order to concentrate on my legal case and to focus on developing a more service-oriented
business, I will be stepping down as the Group CEO and leave the Board on 2 July 2007.
Over the last ﬁve years we have developed a strong management team and I am very happy to
leave the Group in the hands of Rakesh Patel, our Finance Director who will become Chief
Executive. Rakesh has worked for the Group since 1992 and he has an excellent understanding of
our business. I am conﬁdent that he will drive the Group forward.
Ajit R Patel
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
26  June 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review
