 5
I am delighted to present to shareholders my statement for my first year as Chief Executive of
Goldshield. 
It has been a good year for the Group. As I said this time last year our strategy was to move the
Group back to its core strengths of developing lifestyle consumer health brands and marketing
pharmaceutical products. I am therefore pleased to report that, as we progress with our development
programme, we are beginning to see the benefits of our strategy. An important part of this strategy
is creating a structure which can deliver long term growth in both profits and sales. This will be
achieved by attracting and retaining high quality people, the development of the ‘Goldshield’ brand
and the creation of systems which are both scaleable and provide first class information.
While our Chairman has already commented upon the House of Lords decision on the Serious Fraud
Office (SFO) charges, I would add that we were very pleased with the outcome. The next stage of
the legal process is reaching its conclusion and we remain optimistic as to the eventual outcome. 
The results for the year ended 31 March 2008 are very encouraging. Turnover is up 14.3% to £84.9
million (2007: £74.3 million) and profit before tax has risen to £12.4 million (2007: £0.6 million).
Pre-exceptional earnings before tax, amortisation and impairment losses (EBTA) are up 19.0% to
£17.5 million (2007: £14.7 million). As shareholders will be aware, the Group has nil gearing and
at 31 March 2008, our balance sheet was strong with £19.2 million of cash (2007: £23.3 million). 
The main factor behind the recovery in our profits is growth in the Pharmaceutical division revenues
by 19.7% to £63.8 million (2007: £53.3 million). The increase is mainly attributable to growth in
volumes on some key products and improved supplies. The Consumer Health division has shown
marginal increase in revenues to £19.2 million (2007: £19.0 million). We have been able to halt
the decline in values and volumes in this division with the introduction of LIPObind, a weight
management product. The detailed business review of the Group is provided on pages 9 to 13 in
the Report of the Directors.
In the light of this result, the Board is pleased to recommend a dividend of 5.5 pence (2007: 5.1
pence) per share. The dividend paid during the year was 7.6 pence (2007: 6.8 pence).
As well as dealing with the SFO case and our move back towards our core Consumer Health and
Pharmaceutical divisions, we have made some changes at Board level. As shareholders will be
aware, Kirti Patel left  at the end of December and we appointed Nick Woollacott and Paul Edwards
MBE as non-executive Directors in the late summer. We had hoped to make a number of small
disposals to our former Chief Executive, Ajit Patel, but regrettably, these did not happen and we are
in the process of reviewing these businesses.
There is, however, lots to be done. We have in LIPObind a market leading product in consumer
health. I am glad to add that we have a number of other products which are in the pipeline and
which we believe have similar potential. In our Pharmaceutical division we have a good relationship
with the NHS, but shareholders should be aware of the ongoing pressure on prices and, inevitably,
upon margins. Overall, a significant challenge for the business is to develop our ‘Goldshield’ brand
and to develop systems and people who can deliver at the highest level.
Systems are important. During the year much investment has been applied to our information
technology and Management Information Systems. This programme of upgrading is ongoing and
once complete during the first half of 2009/10, it will provide the information that we need to move
the Group forward.
Key people need to be recruited. These include a new Finance Director, where we expect to make
an announcement in the near future. We have recruited a Global Operations Director who will
oversee the entire supply chain, manufacturing and technical documentation functions. In addition
we have recruited the Head of Regulatory affairs and we expect the Head of Medical affairs and
Head of Quality to join us shortly. They will be part of our platform for the future. We must ensure
we deliver a quality product and that we have the skills and knowledge to anticipate what is
happening in the world of pharmaceuticals.
Quality and the value that the consumer places upon our brand will be important aspects of
protecting and developing our margins. Brand reputation will, therefore, move to the centre of our
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review 6
business. We will be paying close attention to building the reputation of Goldshield as a quality
brand and enhancing our performance so we can deliver products efficiently and competitively. It
must be a root and branch commitment.
Current trading and future prospects
The new year begins with Goldshield in good shape. Our balance sheet is strong and we are able to
make the investments we require. We will soon have improved systems and we have already
recruited many of the high quality people we need for our senior positions. Whilst I am very excited
about the future, we are still only part way through the transformation. It will be an evolution not a
revolution and we have a great deal more to do, but our results so far show what we can achieve.
Rakesh V Patel
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
25 June 2008
Chief Executive Officer’s Operating Review
(continued)
