 I am pleased to report our re-focus on the core elements of our business is already proving to be
successful as reﬂected in our increased performance. However, this transition will take some time to
complete.  
On becoming the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Rakesh Patel, initiated a review of our systems and a
number of staff positions to enable the business to grow, and as a result key changes were made.
Any change in direction brings uncertainty in the minds of the workforce. In order to counter this the
executive Directors have spent a great deal of their time outlining the Board’s intentions to personnel
from all levels within the Group. This has proved positive in gaining their support and bringing
forward good ideas.
We have appointed a number of senior staff. The recruitment of Nick Woollacott and Paul Edwards
MBE as non-executive Directors has been completed and we will shortly recruit a Finance Director
to complete the Board line up.
An important part of the change process has been an upgrade of our systems and operating
methods. This has resulted in our appointing outside consultants to help us install IT and other
networks, robust risk assessment programmes and personnel systems which build in the resilience
and sophistication to cope with our anticipated growth. Although this will cause some disruption,
and take up to 18 months to complete, I consider this work crucial to our future performance.   
As I reported to the City, the sale of our non-core businesses to the former Chief Executive, Ajit Patel,
failed and we are now in the process of reviewing these businesses.
It is signiﬁcant that matters concerning litigation against the Company can now be relegated to the
end of my introduction. For the ﬁrst time for many years there are no active civil claims against us
and we were successful in our appeal to the House of Lords. However, this did not deter the Serious
Fraud Ofﬁce from pursuing a case against this Company adding, to many people’s surprise, minor
charges. I am very disappointed by their action and we continue to defend our position. 
It is well to remember the allegations made against us relate to events of more than a decade ago,
the Company has been under investigation for 6 years, the cost in legal and other professional fees
exceeds £6 million, and we have satisﬁed all the civil claimants. Moreover, I cannot begin to assess
the damage these allegations have caused to the reputation and share value of Goldshield. The
matter comes before the Trial Judge in the near future where we are hopeful for a positive outcome. 
Mike Reardon, a main Board Director, decided to leave us during the year. I thank him warmly for
the contribution he made over the years and wish him much success for the future. 
I would particularly like to thank Rakesh Patel and Ajay Patel, who have been largely shouldering
the burden of change during the last twelve months, and all of our employees for contributing to our
increased performance, which I am quietly conﬁdent will continue. 
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM
Chairman
25 June 2008
4
Chairman’s Overview
