 On 3 December 2008, the Court of Appeal ﬁnally put an end to the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce’s endeavour
to prosecute the Company. Despite the outcome being positive the persistence and length of the
litigation, over six years, have caused damage to the reputation of the Group. It is a credit to the
management that through this turbulent time the business has delivered strong growth, proﬁts and
cash ﬂows. The Board is committed to continue to build its market position by providing quality
service and products, and focusing on strengthening mutually beneﬁcial business partnerships with
the Company’s stakeholders.
Our refocus on the Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health product businesses has delivered
encouraging results. During the year, senior managers have devoted a signiﬁcant amount of time to
restructure the business and upgrade its systems and processes for future growth. The systems
upgrade with a majority of SAP systems and processes implementation is due for completion by the
end of this calendar year.
The pharmaceutical side of our business continues to provide good margins and we are actively
pursuing the introduction of new products to ensure that this continues. Our Consumer Health
business remains “work in progress” and is undergoing strategic changes. There are encouraging
positive signs from the sale of our branded weight management products.
We also have developed strategies to increase our market share in the territories we cover outside
the UK and bring new quality products to the consumer in a more cost effective and efﬁcient way.
I hope to report positive progress during the course of the current ﬁnancial year.
We are in a very sound ﬁnancial position with substantial cash balance of £27.5 million and no
debt. We intend to spend our cash reserves on new product introductions, creating brands in the
future and paying dividends.
The Group has strengthened its corporate governance by having a strong non-executive Director
presence on the Board and a newly appointed CFO, Ram Swamy. We are fully committed to continue
to improve our corporate governance platform; for example, this year we launched our risk
management assessment program across the Group.
I am pleased to inform you that Kirti V. Patel has agreed to rejoin the Board as Group Executive
Director in August 2009. Kirti has been closely associated with the Company from its inception,
most recently as strategic advisor. I am conﬁdent Kirti’s undoubted knowledge and standing within
the pharmaceutical industry will add much value to our future success.
After a successful last ﬁnancial year, we have had an encouraging start to the current ﬁnancial year
but we expect to face a more challenging economic environment in the short-term future. I am
conﬁdent that Goldshield is a Group which can grow further, with the support of its dedicated
employees.
Dr. Keith Hellawell QPM
Chairman
24 June 2009
4
Chairman’s Overview
