 GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Chief 
Executive 
Ofﬁcer’s 
Statement
2012
For Gooch & Housego, 2012 was a year in which we made good progress in executing 
our strategy of establishing a more diversiﬁed, resilient and broadly-based business 
which enabled us to deliver results in line with our revised expectations despite a 
difﬁcult trading environment.
After a slower than expected start to the year, we saw a steady recovery in the second 
quarter and experienced sustained demand for our products and services throughout the 
second half of the year. This variability, exempliﬁed by a two fold increase in order intake 
between the ﬁrst and third quarters, presented signiﬁcant challenges for our manufacturing 
operations. Despite this we were able to achieve revenues only marginally lower than 
those of 2011, which was a record year for the company. Margins were impacted by the 
changing product mix, with lower, but more sustainable, levels of Q-switch sales in 2012 
compared to the year ended 30 September 2011.
Trading conditions at the start of the 2012 ﬁnancial year were challenging as adverse 
macro-economic factors together with a down turn in the semiconductor equipment and 
microelectronics sectors combined to create a difﬁcult business environment in our Industrial 
sector. In the Aerospace and Defence sector there were delays in placing a number of 
large contracts, which despite subsequently being awarded later in the year, combined 
with the business dynamics of our Industrial sector to create a difﬁcult ﬁrst quarter.
The second half of the 2012 ﬁnancial year was characterised by generally favourable 
market conditions. In the Industrial sector, the recovery experienced during the second 
quarter was followed by steady demand throughout the ﬁnal six months. Although there 
was probably a degree of restocking, the market has been reasonably measured without 
the ﬂuctuations experienced in the past. In the Aerospace and Defence sector, as reported 
in July, we received a number of previously delayed orders some of which were for the 
supply of higher-value sub-system products against what are forecast to be longer term 
programmes, in line with our strategic objectives.
We have made good progress with our strategy of diversiﬁcation into new markets and 
the move to sub-system products, evidenced by the reduction of Q-switch revenue 
contribution from 21% in 2011 to 14% this ﬁnancial year, on broadly ﬂat total Group 
revenues year on year. At this level of sales the Q-switch is close to the long term average 
in absolute revenue terms.
Having consolidated our leadership positions in core technologies and markets with the 
two acquisitions made in 2011, Gooch & Housego was ready to take the next step in 
2012. By leveraging our portfolio of world-class photonic products we have already 
demonstrated our ability to move up the value-chain into sub-system and system level 
products, especially in Aerospace and Defence and Life Sciences applications. The next 
step is to accelerate this process as we make the transition from components supplier to 
solutions provider.
Through the provision of design and engineering services that feed into highly vertically 
integrated manufacturing, Gooch & Housego aims to deliver sustained growth even in 
times of reduced economic activity. As an example, our largest contract in 2012 was the 
second phase of a design and engineering project that is forecast to transition to the 
manufacturing phase from 2014. While contracts of this type are still the exception today, 
we are engaged at an early stage in an increasing number of such programmes and we 
believe that they will account for more than half our revenues within ﬁve years. 
To achieve this will require fundamental changes throughout the business. The ﬁrst of 
these changes were implemented in 2012 with the appointment of a Chief Technology 
Ofﬁcer (CTO) and the creation of a business development team focused on the Aerospace 
and Defence sector. The CTO position was created in order to bring all research and 
development (R&D) and engineering functions across nine locations under common 
leadership to ensure that their focus and priorities are fully aligned with the Company’s 
strategic objectives. We were fortunate to be able to recruit Dr Murray Reed, a highly 
experienced and commercially focused photonics technologist for this key role. The 
Aerospace and Defence business development team was established to develop enhanced 
sector expertise in order to engage at a higher level with “tier 1” defence contractors on 
complex, high-value, sub-system and system level programmes. The Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer (CEO) of EM4, Inc., acquired by Gooch & Housego in 2011, has been appointed to  GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 9
“
Gooch & Housego 
has made substantial 
progress towards its 
goal of becoming a 
photonics solutions 
provider while 
delivering solid 
results in challenging 
trading conditions”
Gareth Jones
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
head up this team, and a new General Manager has been recruited (from 
the Aerospace and Defence sector) to run our operations in Boston.
Our initiatives to drive organic growth via re-focused R&D and engineering 
are already bringing a new focus to our most important product development 
initiatives. An example is our development of diagnostic systems for 
screening applications. We have recently appointed a senior executive with 
extensive experience in the life sciences and diagnostics sectors to lead the 
commercialisation of the technology. In parallel, we are engaging additional 
hospital research laboratory partners to accelerate our initial trials.
Looking forward, we will be exploring opportunities to strengthen further 
our capabilities in optical, mechanical, electronic, ﬁrmware and software 
design and engineering, as well as project management expertise, to 
support our strategy of moving up the value-chain. 
