 GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 6
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Despite a slower than expected start to the year, your company has delivered a 
satisfactory full year result, helped by a combination of internal cost control measures and 
an encouraging increase in activity in the second half. We have also made good progress 
in delivering our strategic objectives to diversify the earnings of your company and to 
make us more resilient in the face of on-going macroeconomic difﬁculties.
Headline revenues were ﬂat year on year, with approximately 55% of total sales in the second 
half. Due to a change to the product mix and the lower volumes in the ﬁrst quarter, there was 
a reduction in adjusted proﬁt before tax. We continued to focus on cash generation resulting 
in reduced net debt at the year end. Our banking facilities remain committed until April 2015.
Signiﬁcant progress was made in the year towards our strategic aim of broadening our product 
offerings and diversifying our markets. We are investing in new capabilities and have 
strengthened our management team considerably, to provide signiﬁcantly higher value 
sub-systems, rather than just components, for our customers. In 2011 we acquired EM4 and 
Crystal Technology; both businesses have now been fully integrated and are starting to deliver 
opportunities, not only by strengthening our position and expertise in our chosen markets, 
but also through cross selling value added products, particularly in the defence market.
During the year, we undertook a programme of rationalising some of our facilities. We will 
continue to look for opportunities to make the business more efﬁcient.
As we start our new ﬁnancial year, uncertainty continues in world markets. In Europe, the 
Eurozone difﬁculties are affecting both Government and other spending. In the US, the “ﬁscal 
cliff” remains which, if not resolved, will result in signiﬁcantly reduced Government spending 
impacting defence expenditure in particular. Whilst your company relies on a tiny part of 
these budgets and is focused on areas where expenditure is least likely to be reduced, the 
Group is not immune to tightening ﬁscal measures. As a result visibility is limited but we 
begin the new ﬁnancial year with a number of encouraging opportunities, as a more 
resilient Group and with a broader range of products.
At the end of October, Mr Jan Melles, one of Gooch & Housego’s Non-executive Directors, 
stepped down from the Board after 15 years. The Directors wish to thank Jan for his constructive 
advice and contribution during his tenure. I am pleased to welcome to the Board, Dr Peter 
Bordui and Mr Mark Webster who bring with them important sector experience. The Board 
and I would also like to thank all our valued employees for their important contributions to 
the success of the company during the year.
Dr Julian Blogh
 
Chairman’s 
Statement
2012 GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7
“
With a broader market 
and product portfolio, 
the business’s strategy 
of diversiﬁcation has 
put it on a more 
resilient footing”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dr Julian Blogh
