 GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 6
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that your company made good strategic progress in the last 
twelve months on many fronts, against a challenging market backdrop.
While revenues showed some growth in the year, adjusted profit before tax was 18.3% 
higher due to increased volumes and efficiency savings. This was achieved despite an 
increase in our investment in research and development. Cash management remains a 
focus for the Group and at the year-end we were in a net cash position. Following two 
acquisitions since the year end, this has moved to a very manageable modest debt.
The Board’s responsibilities include ensuring that Gooch & Housego has a robust and 
achievable strategy , investments are made without undue risks, we have the resources 
to achieve our objectives and that the Company operates efficiently. Our consistent 
strategy of diversifying the Company’s product range and customer base was effective 
in the year with the establishment of our new Systems Technology Group and the 
subsequent award of a number of early stage development contracts in the Space 
sector. It is expected that these activities will lead to business growth as the products 
progress from the development phase and enter production in the medium term. 
These contracts will assist in the business moving up the value chain into sub-systems 
in line with our strategic objectives. Gooch & Housego’s risks in this new sector are 
also minimised as these new product developments are mostly externally funded.
We continued to assess ways of improving the efficiency and the effectiveness of 
the business and management changes and organisational improvements were made 
this year to the marketing and sales activities of the group. We are also exploring if 
a reduction in the number of sites in the US by consolidating capabilities would 
increase efficiency. Progress was also made in sharing technology between 
operations, whilst recognising national security constraints. In manufacturing, 
plans were made to increase the use of our partner company in the Czech Republic 
where labour costs are significantly lower, whilst maintaining product quality.
The global environment in which we enter our new financial year remains unclear. 
In the US, budget uncertainties continue to cloud our vision and the reduction in 
Government spending could limit our opportunities in Aerospace & Defence. It is, 
however, important to note Gooch & Housego’s technology has the advantage of 
being relevant in areas where expenditure is likely to be least affected. In the Far 
East and Europe, some improvement in the economic situation is evident which we 
expect to benefit the Company in due course.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees for their efforts 
and contribution during the year to the success of the Company. With their support, 
the Board believes the company is well placed to continue its growth into the future.
Dr Julian Blogh
 
Chairman’s 
Statement
2013
“
Our consistent strategy of 
diversifying the company’ s 
product range and 
customer base has been 
successful in the year .”
Dr Julian Blogh
