 GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
Statement
2013
Trading conditions during the year were broadly positive, albeit set against a 
background of some uncertainty affecting most of the sectors in which Gooch & 
Housego operates. Order intake was at the level needed to sustain growth in the 
business. The order book ended the year at £27.8 million, an increase of 12% from 
the beginning of the year.
Gooch & Housego has seen continued growth in its Aerospace & Defence business 
despite the headwinds affecting this sector. While some significant programmes 
stalled or were subject to delays, other more mature programmes proceeded as 
planned and outweighed the setbacks. While this market continues to be challenging, 
the Company remains optimistic about continued growth prospects based on the 
strong customer relationships that have been developed in recent years and the 
breadth of opportunities currently being addressed.
In line with its strategy, the Company has continued to diversify its activities in the 
Industrial sector, with sensors and test and measurement systems growing in 
importance over the past year. In the industrial laser market Gooch & Housego has 
kept pace with the technology shift away from solid state lasers in favour of fibre 
lasers for many routine materials processing applications. The Company is now a 
major supplier to the fibre laser market at both component and subsystem level. 
In Life Sciences, the Company began to utilise its Systems Technology Group (STG), 
established mid-way through the year, to leverage its excellence in components to 
develop subsystems-level products to address new opportunities in laser surgery 
and to build upon its already strong presence in Optical Coherence Tomography 
(OCT). These initiatives, combined with established business in microscopy and 
research and development work in diagnostics, have reinforced Life Sciences as 
one of the Company’s main growth markets. 
Creating the means to deliver growth has been a primary objective during the past 
year. The aim has been to build a broad-based business that can deliver sustainable 
growth in flat economic conditions and is able to respond to economic recovery, 
while being sufficiently well-balanced to minimise the effects of market cyclicality. 
We have sought to deliver growth in a number of ways:
• Via organic growth and new product development
• By moving up the value-chain from components to sub-systems
•  By developing new application areas where Gooch & Housego can take  
a market leading position 
•  Through acquisitions, where they accelerate the delivery of our strategic 
objectives
•  By leveraging our supply chain and low-cost manufacturing relationships  
to increase competitiveness
•  By strengthening our presence in geographical markets with significant  
growth potential
Organic New Product Development
A more focused approach to research and development has paid dividends in 2013, 
with a significant number of new products being brought to market. These new 
products have ranged from acousto-optic, electro-optic and fibre optic devices, to 
sophisticated laser sources and optical amplifiers, spanning a broad range of 
application areas ranging from microelectronics to satellite communications. By 
carefully selecting our projects, based on enhanced market intelligence derived 
from increasingly close relationships with our major customers, we have been able 
to increase the success rate and value of the new products we have developed.
 
Organic Growth – Moving up the Value Chain
The Systems Technology Group (STG) was established to drive organic growth at 
the sub-systems level. Recognising that it is difficult to make the transition from 
components to systems, and inefficient to try to do this at multiple locations, the 
STG provides Gooch & Housego with a vehicle to undertake the development of 
complex photonic sub-systems without the constraints that apply to its 
component manufacturing operations. With optical, mechanical, electronic and 
software design and modelling capabilities, and the ability to integrate multiple  GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
photonic component technologies (for example, fibre optics, semiconductor lasers 
and acousto-optics), each of which may be manufactured at a different Gooch & 
Housego facility, the STG is able to lead and coordinate complex projects with 
commercial customers, space agencies and collaborative partners. Although still a 
small team (seven people at the year-end), the STG is expected to double in 
headcount during 2014. The STG is also able to call upon development and 
engineering resources from across Gooch & Housego, and works with outside 
partners and consultants, with the result that it is able to take on more demanding 
projects than its small size would suggest.
The STG has initially focussed on space photonics and optical coherence 
tomography (OCT). In both applications Gooch & Housego is experiencing customer 
pull to supply “black-box” solutions, rather than low-level components. In these 
new markets Gooch & Housego’s customers tend to be very large organisations 
that perform the role of systems integrator, and they are not well-equipped to 
interact at the component level.
In space applications, photonics technology has significant advantages over the 
equivalent electronic systems that are the norm today (specifically lower mass, 
higher bandwidth and reduced power consumption, all of which contribute to 
lower cost). A major technology shift in favour of photonics technology is taking 
place and represents an opportunity for Gooch & Housego to take a leading 
position in this rapidly developing new market. Gooch & Housego has a strong 
heritage in space qualified photonic components and the objective is to leverage 
this to develop a family of sub-systems for applications in telecommunications and 
earth observation satellites. Once proven in satellite applications it is anticipated 
that this technology will filter down to the much larger commercial and military 
aerospace markets. (Gooch & Housego has already participated in several 
collaborative projects with aerospace partners to investigate the application of 
fibre optic networks for data, sensing and control systems in next generation 
aircraft). The STG has successfully bid for a number of European Space Agency 
(ESA) and European Union Framework 7 (EU FP7) collaborative programmes and 
has recently completed a programme to design and demonstrate a fibre optic 
amplifier suitable for use in a satellite laser communications system.
Acquisitive Growth
Shortly after the year end Gooch & Housego completed the acquisition of 
Spanoptic Limited (“Spanoptic”), a manufacturer of precision optical components 
based in Glenrothes, Scotland.
Spanoptic specialises in spherical and aspheric lenses and diffractive optics for 
applications in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared regions of the spectrum. This 
capability is highly complementary to Gooch & Housego’s predominantly planar 
optics business and enhances the Company’s ability to provide complete  
sub-system solutions to its customers in line with its strategic objectives. 
Spanoptic’s capabilities in infrared optics and coatings are particularly relevant  
to Gooch & Housego’s activities in the Aerospace & Defence sector.
In recent years Spanoptic has invested heavily in state-of-the-art optical 
manufacturing, metrology and thin-film coating equipment. These investments 
have enabled Spanoptic to produce optical components at the upper end of the 
quality and precision scale while maintaining highly competitive pricing. As a  
result, Spanoptic has been able to win business and develop strong, mainly 
European customer relationships across a broad range of applications including 
analytical instrumentation, optical sensing, security, imaging, life sciences and 
aerospace and defence. 
Also following the year end, in late November 2013, Gooch & Housego completed 
the acquisition of Constelex Technology Enablers Limited (Constelex), a small 
Athens, Greece, based business specialising in the design and manufacture of 
low-noise, high power optical fibre amplifiers and lasers for applications in 
telecommunications, sensing and defence. The Constelex team will relocate to the 
UK in early 2014 and will be based at Gooch & Housego’s Torquay facility as part of 
the STG. Constelex brings highly relevant optical systems expertise to the STG plus 
“
In space 
applications, 
photonics 
technology  
has significant 
advantages over 
the equivalent 
electronic  
systems that are 
the norm today . ”
Gareth Jones GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
a number of ESA and EU funded collaborative projects in the space photonics field. 
The acquisition of Constelex will add valuable skills and experience to the STG and 
will help to accelerate the delivery of the Company’s strategic objective of 
becoming a leader in space photonics.
Increasing Competitiveness
Spanoptic’s competitive advantage is further enhanced by the strategic alliance 
that it has with a Chinese manufacturer of precision optics, optical sub-systems 
and instrumentation. This alliance is being developed and extended to provide 
Gooch & Housego with an enhanced foothold in the increasingly important 
Chinese market and to serve as a high-quality, low-cost manufacturing partner  
for both components and systems. With the ability to manufacture photonic 
sub-systems and instrumentation in higher volumes and at lower cost than would 
be possible elsewhere within Gooch & Housego this relationship will enable the 
Company to scale to higher volumes than would otherwise have been possible.
Similarly, we have made greater use of our established European contract 
manufacturing partner based in the Czech Republic to enhance the competitiveness 
of our products, a process that will continue in the current year. 
Strengthening our Presence in Geographical Markets with Significant 
Growth Potential
2013 has seen a number of initiatives to increase our penetration of Far Eastern 
markets. Over the past 25 years Gooch & Housego has grown its business in Japan 
with the assistance of its distribution partners. In order to gain access to new 
opportunities and to demonstrate commitment to this important market, Gooch  
& Housego Japan KK was established and an office opened in Nagoya in April  
2013. A number of significant new opportunities are already under development.  
In addition to the new relationships in China that came with the acquisition of 
Spanoptic, we have strengthened our applications engineering team there and 
opened a sales office in Singapore during 2013.
Summary
During 2013, Gooch & Housego has made considerable progress in line with  
its strategic objectives to yield a better balanced business with enhanced  
growth potential.
Gooch & Housego has become a more vertically integrated business. At the 
component end of the scale, the acquisition of Spanoptic has added highly 
complementary capabilities in precision optics. The STG has given Gooch & Housego 
a vehicle with which to provide its customers with sub-systems design and 
development services, and the acquisition of Constelex has enhanced the ability of 
the STG to develop complex systems for space and telecommunications applications.
Greater efficiency and volume has helped to deliver revenue growth at improved 
margins, resulting in strong cash generation and a net cash position at the year end.
Prospects
Gooch & Housego has taken a number of important initiatives in the past year – a 
re-focussing of Research and Development and Sales and Marketing, the creation 
of the STG and the identification of new markets such as space photonics. When 
combined with the acquisitions of Spanoptic and Constelex, these initiatives 
provide Gooch & Housego with the means to deliver growth in a flat economy, and 
the ability to respond to, and benefit from, market recovery.
With excellent customer relationships and a strong pipeline of new products Gooch 
& Housego is well-positioned to deliver sustained growth and continued margin 
improvement.
Gareth Jones
“
Despite what 
at times have 
been challenging 
market conditions, 
Gooch & Housego 
has traded well, 
whilst investing 
in initiatives that 
underpin long 
term growth.”
Gareth Jones
