 VPhase plc Group Financial Statements 2011 10
www.vphase.co.uk
201 1 was a year of steady progress in the Social 
Housing sector for VPhase. The Group is also beginning 
to attract significant interest from overseas markets and 
has sold product to Australia, France, South Africa 
and Poland.
Chief Executive’s Review
Growth Drivers
 > Rising energy bills
 > Carbon reduction 
targets
 > Fuel poverty agenda
 > Energy efficiency is 
the cheapest and 
most effective way  
of tackling our energy 
reduction and climate 
objectives
In 2011 we made steady progress against 
our stated objective of driving the business 
forward and finished the year with an order 
book of £178,000 (2010: £Nil). Since the 
year end the rate of sales has increased 
and the order book is healthy with a good 
pipeline of potential orders.
The Group’s increased focus on the Social 
Housing market, where our product 
addresses the key objectives of Registered 
Social Landlords, tackling fuel poverty and 
reducing the carbon footprint of their 
housing stock, has resulted in increased 
demand. We have entered into a 
framework agreement with Procurement 
for Housing, received an order for 1,200 
units with Stockport Homes as part of 
their Shine program, as well as an order 
for 980 units from British Gas to supply 
City South Manchester Housing Trust. 
Subsequent to the year end and following 
the installation of the first 500 units, City 
South Manchester Housing Trust has 
confirmed that all future rewires they carry 
out will have a VPhase unit fitted. 
Additionally, the relationship with Great 
Places Housing continues to strengthen. 
Building on the success of early trials, the 
VPhase VX1 unit is now specified on all 
Great Places new builds, rewires, voids 
and boiler replacements. Great Places 
have been so pleased with the product 
that they now present their experiences  
at Social Housing seminars sharing their 
positive feedback amongst their peer 
group. As a consequence, we have 
generated significant interest in the sector 
and there are now some 50 Registered 
Social Landlords trialling VPhase units.
March 2011 saw the award by Ofgem of  
2.5 tonnes of CERT credits for each 
VPhase installed. The changes to the CERT 
scheme shifting the emphasis to heating 
and insulation, which must now comprise 
67% of the total expenditure, has made 
accessing the value of these credits more 
challenging, but discussions continue with 
the major utilities on how to unlock value.
In June 2011 we were delighted to be 
one of only ten winners of the GE 
Ecomagination challenge out of some 5,000 
applicants. Discussions continue between 
the Group and GE as to how we might work 
closer together, and the award has already 
had the ancillary benefit of attracting other 
organisations to our product.
The supply of VPhase units to Tesco 
customers via Enact Energy, has, before 
going live necessitated the availability of 
a nationwide installation capability. I am 
delighted that this is now substantially in 
place and it is expected that sales would 
commence by the end of the second 
quarter.
Overseas opportunities are considered  
as they arise and I am pleased to announce 
that on 15 March 2012 we secured a supply 
agreement with Energy Home Solutions  
Pty Limited (“EHS”) in Australia worth  
up to £12.4 million over the next five  
years, subject to EHS meeting the minimum 
order levels.
The Group has developed an excellent 
team with a breadth of knowledge in our 
industry and has further added to and 
strengthened that team at both 
management and at the Board level.
Review of the Group’s strategic 
progress through 2011
As outlined in last year’s annual report,  
we continue to establish long term 
relationships with key partners and 
customers to drive demand and whilst our 
policy of establishing these relationships 
with larger organisations takes time to 
deliver, we believe it will provide the base  
for sustainable growth in the future.
In line with our stated objective of 
continuous innovation, we are launching 
two new added value versions of VPhase,  
a 2kW (“VX2”) version and 5kW (“VX5”) 
version each of which can be installed  
more easily, can offer wireless connectivity 
and which will be modular offering 6 way 
and 16 way distribution boards to extend 
the value proposition. VPhase plc Group Financial Statements 2011 11
www.vphase.co.uk
Carbon Footprint
A VPhase unit effectively reduces the 
carbon footprint of any property in which it 
is installed and this can be by as much as 
4,500 kgs of CO
2
 over the product’s 
installed life of 25 years. To ensure that this 
gain is not eroded by our chosen supply 
chain, we have worked with CTech 
Innovation Ltd under a European funded 
project, where we have tested the carbon 
impact of our chosen supply chain, 
component selection, manufacturing 
location and transport implications.
The overall carbon impact of the supply 
chain is around 53 kgs of CO
2
 which in turn 
means that a VPhase VX1 is carbon neutral 
within its first year and will continue to save 
carbon for the subsequent 24 years of its life.
The Compelling Case for VPhase
VPhase is the only voltage optimisation 
technology that can cost effectively 
optimise to a set voltage. 
VPhase has been extensively tested by 
SSE, Ofgem and Housing Authorities 
substantiating the claims that the benefits 
of VPhase unit are:
•	 a saving of up to 12% off a domestic 
electricity bill;
•	 a reduction in carbon emissions by up 
to 4.5 tonnes over its 25 year life;
•	 it becomes an integral part of the 
infrastructure of the property once 
professionally installed;
•	 it is a fit and forget product which sees 
the units of electricity consumed in the 
home reduced with no need for 
behavioural change on behalf of the 
customer; and
•	 a payback of three to five years 
dependent upon overall levels of 
electricity used and mix of appliances 
assuming a typical £300 installed cost.
We restricted headcount growth in 2011 
to those positions that could rapidly add 
value to the business and therefore have 
strengthened our sales, technical and 
supply chain teams as well as the Board 
of Directors with the appointment of 
Duncan Sedgwick as an additional 
Non-Executive Director on 22 March 2011. 
The Group’s headcount has increased 
during the period from 13 to 17 as at 
31 December 2011.
In addition to stand alone benefits, the 
device is complementary with other 
energy saving technologies. For example, 
installing a VPhase unit with a solar PV 
system can reduce the payback period 
and improve the return on investment.
VPhase is the next most affordable green 
option after loft, cavity and floor insulation. 
According to DECC it was estimated that 
at the beginning of 2011 out of 26.6 million 
homes in Great Britain, 23.3 million have 
lofts and 18.7 million have cavity walls of 
which 12.9 million homes had loft 
insulation of at least 125 mm (55.4% of 
relevant homes) and 10.6 million had cavity 
wall insulations (56.6% of relevant homes).
Less than 0.02% of UK homes have 
voltage optimisation.
Future Strategy
VPhase will continue to build on the 
excellent base it has established in the 
Social Housing market.
Our new products should substantially 
increase the footprint of properties that 
can cost effectively fit a VPhase unit and 
open the market for light commercial 
single phase applications.
The Group continues to look for 
opportunities to further accelerate the 
demand for VPhase and where the 
technology can be combined with other 
products/technologies to provide greater 
savings for the home owner.
Outlook
With a healthy and growing order book 
and pipeline of potential orders we are 
confident of making significant further 
progress in 2012.
Rick Smith
Chief Executive Officer
19 March 2012
 > CE Marked appliances 
must work across the 
EU range 207 volts to 
253 volts
 > Most appliances do 
not benefit from 
excess voltage
