 Pub Company
Our managed house division had an excellent year both in its
trading performance and its strategic progress. By adopting a
policy which encourages individual house manager initiatives
with strong operational disciplines, and which focuses on
developing the skills of our people within high quality
properties, we intend to operate the best managed pub estate
in the market.
This business now has a robust market position, comprising
mostly freehold properties in excellent trading locations, a
vibrant and expanding pub brand in Hungry Horse, two
premium food-orientated brands with exciting prospects in
Old English Inns and Appletons, and a strong foundation of
successful and progressive unbranded pubs focused on their
own local markets. This balance of complementary businesses
gives Pub Company a unique combination of potential profit
growth and operational resilience for the future.
Pub Partners
Our tenanted and leased pub division also combined strong
financial results with further operational success, which was the
result of Pub Partners’ determination to recruit the best licensees
and to adopt the highest operating standards in the market.
We achieved increases in the average sales of all drinks
categories per pub, bucking the national market trend, and a
further rise in the business’ return on capital. During the year,
we transferred 18 outlets from management to tenancy and
further trimmed the tail by the sale of 15 sites, as we continued
our policy of raising the average pub quality of the estate.
Brewing & Brands
Our brewing and wholesaling division pursued its strategy of
increasing the sales and distribution of our four key beer
brands – Greene King IPA, Abbot Ale, Old Speckled Hen and
Ruddles County – to secure clear leadership in the traditional
beer category, and has been providing customers with
excellent, cost effective service.
New marketing initiatives and sustained media investment
saw all four brands increase sales strongly, growing volume
and market share, while further service level and cost
improvement initiatives enabled the business to out-perform
the market in all distribution channels and to increase both
profits and capital returns to record levels.
‘Publican’ awards
The professionalism and dynamism of our business received
national recognition when both Pub Company and Pub
Partners were named the managed and tenanted pub
companies of the year in the ‘Publican’ newspaper awards in
March 2002. This success was further distinguished by Pub
Partners becoming the first business to win it’s award in
consecutive years. The winning of these awards not only
boosts employee morale, but also delivers a tangible business
benefit by improving our ability to attract the best employees
and licensees into our business.
Prospects
Our start to the new financial year has been positive, with
sales in our pub divisions running ahead of last year and our
beer brands continuing their sales and market share growth.
We intend to drive as much profit growth as we can from our
core business and will be continuing to integrate, and
improve, the Old English and the Morrells outlets we have
acquired. The company is well positioned to generate
consistent shareholder value in the future.
People
The quality and motivation of our people is our ultimate
competitive advantage and the company undertakes a wide
range of initiatives to improve skills and calibre. The success
of this strategy is measured by the results of our annual
employee attitude survey, which most recently indicated that
no less than 91 per cent of our employees enjoy their job.
The continuing rapid pace of progress in all areas of the
company has posed them a significant challenge, and the
strength of these results testifies to their commitment and
ability to embrace change in order that the company can
compete so successfully. I wish to thank every one of them
for all their hard work.
David McCall
Chairman
4 July 2002 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OLD MILL HOTEL, TOWN PATH, HARNHAM, SALISBURY, WILTSHIRE
Old English Inns’ exceptional sites provide excellent opportunities for
future profit growth.
6 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT |  2001/2002 7 The year saw further success
derived from our strategy of
consistently investing to improve
the quality of all facets of our
operations, while focusing on
achieving increases in the returns
we derive from the capital
invested, and using the strength
of our balance sheet to make complementary acquisitions.
The company is structured to support this growth strategy,
balancing the need for empowered management within the
operating divisions, to give them the freedom and resources
to compete successfully against their competitors, with that
of ensuring that we achieve our corporate synergies and
increase shareholder value.
Our structure of three different, but complementary, businesses
produces demonstrable benefits in terms of strategic flexibility,
cost synergies and corporate branding, which help each to be a
stronger player within their particular markets.
Pub Company
Our managed pubs division operates larger outlets which offer
greater profit potential under direct management. Comprising
a balanced mix of individual businesses, Pub Company is
organised into five operating segments focused on particular
markets, following the integration of Old English Inns as a new
sub-division and the merger of the ‘town local’ and ‘circuit bar’
businesses into the new ‘high street’ segment during the year.
Excluding outlets acquired with Old English Inns, the
number of pubs operated by Pub Company rose to 503 at the
year end as the site acquisition programme out-paced the
continuing rationalisation of those outlets which we did not
consider to be more profitable under management. Adjusted
for the relative timings of purchases and disposals, the
average number of pubs in the core estate fell by 9 to 495.
Turnover for the 53 weeks to 4 May 2002 rose 6 per cent to
£270.6 million and trading profit was 5 per cent ahead at £48.0
million. On an individual pub basis adjusted for a 53 week year ,
turnover and trading profit rose 6 and 5 per cent respectively
due to the improvement in the quality of the average pub.
The trading margin declined slightly to 17.7 per cent, partly
because of the additional costs caused by the significant
increase in minimum wage costs and partly through a further
increase in the proportion of food sales to 29 per cent, arising
primarily from the continued success of the Hungry Horse
brand. Underlying gross margin performance was excellent,
driven by improvements in purchasing terms and
management of the sales mix within the estate.
Like-for-like turnover performance was very strong,
registering a 3.6 per cent increase on the prior year in the 267
pubs receiving less than £20k of capital expenditure in the
year. This was one of the best results in the sector and
reflects the continuing improvement in management and
retailing skills within the business.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Old Speckled Hen
is now the
number one
premium bottled
ale brand and is
up 41 per cent
since 2000
8 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT |  2001/2002 9
Number Number
of outlets at of outlets at 
29 April 2001 4 May 2002
117 131
152 151
156 145
-95
71 79
Total 496 601
Traditional pubs in rural or edge of
town locations with a range of
quality food offers drawing
customers from a wide area
Inns
Traditional inns and hotels offering a
mix of high quality food, liquor and
accommodation in attractive, scenic sites
appealing to more affluent customers
Old
English
Inns
City, town and suburban centre
pubs with a complex mix of
consumers including shoppers and
business people at lunch or early
evening, and a younger profile later
in the evening
High
Street
Community pubs primarily serving
local customers, with an emphasis on
local trade building activities
Real Pubs
Larger branded pubs with a great
value food business, appealing to both
the local community and customers
travelling from a wider area
Hungry
Horse
WARWICK ARMS, KINGS ROAD, READING, BERKSHIRE
We believe the Warwick to be quite simply the best real pub in the
city centre – and our customers seem to agree… We undertook an increased capital development programme,
resulting partly from:
• an increase in the number of individual site purchases
to 15, with 14 being for conversion to Hungry Horse
• five site conversions to the Appleton’s brand, which
offers quality, fresh food at attractive price points in an
excellent traditional pub environment, and
• some further major developments within the Inns
segment.
In all, 123 major development schemes were undertaken
during the year and the average investment per scheme rose
from £79k to £106k. In total, £37.7 million was invested
(excluding Old English Inns), £17.1 million of which related
to site purchases. Initial returns on this increased level of
investment are well ahead of our cost of capital and should
generate additional profit growth in the next twelve months.
Beside its strong financial performance in achieving long-
term economic profit growth, Pub Company also registered
a year of strategic and operational progress as it continued to
reshape its business to meet the needs of the modern
consumer. The key areas of strategic focus in the year were:
1. Improving pub manager recruitment and development 
The quality of local management is the differentiating factor
between good and excellent pub estates. In recognition of
this critical ingredient of future success, we have upgraded
our recruitment and development function to ensure the
availability of high quality, fully trained licensees to run our
broad spread of outlets. The trainee and deputy management
programme was enhanced, the new manager induction
process was extended in scope and length, and manager
benefits improved to increase our attractiveness to potential
recruits. The early benefits of this initiative are encouraging
and have already resulted in a dramatic reduction in the use
of temporary relief managers.
2. Expanding and strengthening the Hungry Horse brand
The marketing and imagery of the Hungry Horse brand were
refreshed, re-emphasising the quirkiness of the brand’s
personality, whilst the quality and value of the food offer
have been strengthened. We also acquired a further 14 sites
for Hungry Horse. The effect of this energetic approach to
an already successful business has exceeded all expectations,
with like-for-like sales up 6.0 per cent and strong
performances being achieved by those new sites which had
been developed by the year end.
3. The development of a second pub brand
We identified a gap in the market for a food-led pub offer at
a higher specification than Hungry Horse, but providing much
higher levels of value than potential competitors. Successful
trials of the  Appleton’s concept were refined and extended to
six sites by the year end. Although much still needs to be
done before the brand can be grown significantly, we are
increasingly confident that Appleton’s has the potential to
emerge as a second sustainable, clearly differentiated pub
brand within our estate.
Much work was also undertaken to integrate the Old English
Inns acquisition, with 77 outlets identified for retention
within Pub Company. The principal challenges of winning
the hearts and minds of the Old English employees and
carrying out the integration of its infrastructure have largely
been completed. We are now addressing the need to invest in
improving the quality standards of the retained properties to
ensure that they deliver the promised premium experience.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that Pub
Company continues to grow on an economically profitable
basis and is the best operator of managed pubs in the market,
an achievement recognised at the ‘Publican’ newspaper
awards in March 2002 when it was voted the ‘Managed Pub
Company (over 100 outlets) of the Year’.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’SREVIEW 11
Pub Average number Turnover Trading profit Trading profit
Company of outlets (£m) (£m) margin (%)
2001 504 254.6 45.6 17.9
2002 495 270.6 48.0 17.7
10 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT |  2001/2002
GRANDSTAND, GRANDSTAND ROAD, HEREFORD
Right by the race course, Hungry Horse is a dead cert to romp home
against the competition.
Hungry Horse sells rump steaks
equivalent to the weight of the
international space station every
week Pub Partners
The year saw a significant level of property activity within
our tenanted and leased pub estate as it disposed of 15 non-
core outlets, passed 2 sites to management and accepted back
5 properties from management, as part of the ongoing
evolution of our estate. Pub Partners also took over 32 inns
acquired as part of Old English and completed 13 transfers to
lease, finishing with 1,071 pubs at the end of the year and a
further 19 Old English sites in the process of transfer.
The transfer of these Old English Inns to assignable lease
agreements is a major task, given the relatively large size and
complexity of the properties involved, and takes more time
than if transferred to our simpler nine year tenancy agreement.
Leases are needed to let these properties because of the greater
scale of the financial commitment required by the licensee, the
higher level of investment committed by us, and the greater
rental levels we seek to achieve our return. Finally, given the
specialist skills required, securing the right calibre of licensee to
operate such properties successfully is a significant undertaking
and one which we are not prepared to rush just to achieve
rapid lettings.
T rading at the 13 sites let by the year end has been encouraging
and a further 10 had been let by the end of June. We are
confident that these properties are an excellent addition 
to the top end of the estate and will produce attractive 
long-term returns.
Trading profit for the year increased by 6 per cent to 
£37.5 million on the back of a 6 per cent rise in turnover to
£95.7 million. Allowing for the time-weighted decline in the
number of outlets within the estate due to the sale of non-
strategic properties, and adjusting for a 53-week year, turnover
and trading profit per pub were both ahead by 8 per cent.
Operational performance was strong across a broader range
of trading measures, as follows:
• in the like-for-like estate of 908 pubs, turnover 
rose by 5 per cent
• average beer barrels per pub were up 1.6 per cent,
despite a market decline
• we achieved a £3.5 million improvement 
in working capital efficiency
• our return on capital rose to 14.4 per cent.
This strong performance at outlet level reflects the benefits
accruing from our strategy of improving the average quality
by means of:
• acquiring new outlets in the top quartile of the estate
• improving the calibre of licensees through better
recruitment and support
• investing prudently in pub developments
• disposing of those outlets which no longer meet our
criteria for sustainable quality.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
BAR 4, FRIAR STREET, READING, BERKSHIRE
Trading around the clock, from an early morning coffee with pastry
to late evening living it up, the right site and the right staff deliver a
good time…
Our success in selling our beers 
was complemented by a 9 per cent
increase in wine and spirit volumes
12 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’SREVIEW GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT |  2001/2002 13
Pub Average number Trading profit Trading profit Profit per pub
Partners of outlets (£m) change (%) change (%)
2001 1,091 35.3 +23 +12
2002 1,053 37.5 +6 +8
