 Chairman
I would like to begin by paying tribute to
David McCall, who retired on 1 May
2005 after ten years as the chairman of
the company. Personally, I count myself
very fortunate to have served under
him. He was highly supportive of me in
my role as chief executive and has led
the company and the board with great distinction. We have all
come a long way together in the last decade and have done so
with a very happy board of directors under David’s leadership. Our
thanks are due to him in great measure and we will miss the
invaluable mixture of his cheerful style and shrewd business
sense. I am sure that he will be a hard act to follow and we all wish
David the very best in his retirement.
Results
I am delighted to be reporting on another year of strong profit
growth for the fifty-two weeks ended 1 May 2005. Our three
trading divisions have all played their part in producing these
record results and we have also benefited from the first 39 weeks
of trading contribution from our acquisition of the Laurel
neighbourhood estate. Turnover for the year was up 33 per cent
to £732.6 million and trading profit increased by 39 per cent to
£155.7 million. Our profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional
items rose by 14 per cent to £94.0 million and adjusted earnings
per share by 14 per cent to 91.5 pence. We have increased our
earnings per share by more than 10 per cent per annum
compound over the last eleven years.
Laurel acquisition
We acquired the 432 pubs which made up the Laurel
neighbourhood estate for £654 million last summer, completing
the deal on 6 August 2004. The integration process, named ‘The
best of both worlds’ to reflect our aim of recognising and retaining
the particular operational strengths of both our own Pub
Company and Laurel, was completed very successfully in
February, ahead of schedule. We have been able to transfer 117
pubs from Pub Company to our Pub Partners division as a result
of the Laurel deal, which has further helped to improve the quality
of our pub estate.
Dividend
The board recommends a final net dividend of 25.85 pence per
share, which will produce an increase of 10 per cent in the total
net dividend for the year to 36.3 pence per share. The final
dividend, if approved, will be paid on 12 September 2005 to those
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 August
2005.
Finance
We have a very strong balance sheet which is backed by our
extensive freehold pub assets and highly positive free cash flow.
This allowed us to finance the Laurel acquisition by raising extra
debt rather than having to resort to the more costly option of
issuing more equity. At the year-end our debt stood at £1020.2
million, equivalent to a debt to equity ratio of 149 per cent and an
interest cover multiple of 2.5 times, figures with which we feel very
comfortable. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 3 4 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Securitisation
The initial funding for the Laurel deal was
arranged through a short-term bank
loan, with the intention that we would
renegotiate this quickly into a mixture of
securitised debt and a medium term
bank loan. We subsequently raised
£600 million through a securitisation
package, against 904 managed and
tenanted pubs, at very advantageous
terms and £450 million from a 5 year
bank loan. This complemented funding of £150 million already in
place. The re-financing exercise was completed in March 2005.
Assets
We sold 51 properties during the year, consisting of a mix of non-
strategic managed houses unsuitable for conversion to tenancy or
lease, non-sustainable smaller tenanted pubs, a few short
leasehold properties and some unlicensed properties. The asset
sales totalled £45.6 million, on which we made a surplus of £13.4
million over book value. 
Pub Company
Our managed house division began the year trading through 528
pubs. Pub Company then became the main beneficiary of the
Laurel acquisition and spent about six months in a climate of
considerable change, with the heavy responsibility of managing
the integration process. This was completed very successfully and
at the year-end, after a number of transfers to Pub Partners and
selective sales, Pub Company was running 820 managed houses.
The trading results were very solid, with positive like for like sales
and an increase in the trading profit margin across a much larger
business.
Pub Partners
Our tenanted and leased division started the year with 1153 and
finished with 1244 pubs after receiving the Pub Company transfers.
Their key task was to find the best possible new tenants and
lessees for the transferred pubs in considerable numbers within a
fairly short space of time. This has been done and the trading profit
for the division was well ahead of last year, not merely in quantum,
but in terms of average trading profit per pub.
Brewing Company
Our brewing division has had another great year and the reputation
of our own-brewed ale brands spreads ever wider.  Greene King IPA
became the biggest selling cask ale in Britain during the year, while
both Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale have seen their sales volumes
increase too. The fastest growing markets for us were our national
account sales to other pub groups and our take home sales to
supermarkets, but we also sold more beer through the independent
free trade and export markets. The trading profit and its percentage
margin to turnover have increased again.
Non-executive directors
Graham Greene retired from the board at last year’s AGM and we
included a valediction to him in our 2004 report. In March 2005
we were pleased to welcome Jane Scriven to our board as a non-
executive director. She was a director of Geest plc for the last 9
years running their continental European operations and is also a
qualified solicitor.  We believe she will be a great asset to us.
Since the year-end, we are equally pleased to have been joined by CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 5
John Brady as our fifth non-executive director. He has been a
consultant with McKinsey & Co for twenty-four years and we look
forward to benefiting from his extensive marketing and retailing
experience.
People
This has been another great year for the company and I want to
thank our employees and licensees very much for their skill, hard
work, commitment and loyalty which have made it possible. We
have welcomed large numbers of people from Laurel into Greene
King and we respect the special talents which they have brought
to us, just as we hope that they will benefit from being part of a
fully integrated company with three increasingly profitable trading
divisions. Together we are stronger and we all look forward to the
future with confidence.  
Tim Bridge
Chairman
5 July 2005 6 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
