 8 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
I am pleased to announce another year
of record results for the company, further
building on our 30 year track record of
uninterrupted, profitable growth. All
three of our trading divisions performed
well growing revenue and trading profits,
benefiting from 39 weeks trading from
the Laurel Neighbourhood acquisition. In
2004/05, Greene King plc delivered +33% revenue growth and
+39% trading profit growth. These results demonstrate the high
quality of our assets, our brands and the calibre and commitment
of our people.  
Strategy
The results have been achieved by executing a clearly proven
strategy to deliver shareholder value. Our emphasis is on
achieving organic growth, supplemented by a prudent
acquisition strategy, through three, horizontally integrated trading
divisions. The integrated model provides us with financial and
operational synergies, as well as the opportunity to share
intellectual capital across the group. It allows flexibility to transfer
pubs between our two estates, helping to maximise the returns
on our assets, as well as giving us balance and an element of
natural hedging.  
All three divisions are characterised by being highly focused
operations with an overriding commitment to the delivery of
quality and service to the customer. The businesses are
underpinned by the quality of our assets and brands, and a clearly
able and motivated team. They are positioned to trade
successfully without employing low pricing or discounts as the
primary competitive tool. We prefer to target discerning
customers who demand a differentiated, quality offer. We have
positioned ourselves by:
• Operating in, and revitalising, traditional sectors of the
hospitality and drinks markets
• Raising the quality of our assets via focused investment
• Marketing brands which possess a strong consumer appeal
• Nurturing our talent pool and constantly developing our unique
culture
• Targeting our businesses on achieving sustainable investment
returns.
The consistency of this strategy, and its execution, has enabled us
to achieve well above average earnings per share and dividend
growth over many years and provides significant scope for future
increases in shareholder value.
Laurel Neighbourhood Pubs
The acquisition of Laurel’s Neighbourhood Business for a
consideration of £654 million was completed on 6 August 2004.
The Laurel estate is made up of 432 high quality, well-invested
and largely freehold pubs that are focused on community and
traditional town locations.  These pubs complement our existing
operations well and are delivering benefits to all three of our
operating divisions.
In Laurel, we acquired excellent pub assets, led by a strong
management team, sector-leading operating systems and a very
good cultural fit.  The opportunity for us, therefore, was to extract
the best practices and systems from both Greene King Pub
Company and Laurel, and then roll these out across the combined
business.  This was more important to us than achieving a more CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
rapid integration by imposing purely Greene King practices on
Laurel, although we were still able to complete the integration
ahead of schedule in February 2005.  As a result, we developed
the ‘best of both worlds’ strategy which has enabled us to
significantly improve, amongst other things, the planning and
execution of our promotions, the communication process
between our pubs and our managers and the quality of our liquor
and food offer across both estates.  We remain on track to
achieve £6 million of synergies within our first full year of
ownership, a testament to both the strategic and financial logic of
this quality acquisition.
At the time, the deal was funded with a short-term debt facility.
Since then, however, we have developed our debt strategy to
allow the company the financial flexibility to continue to invest for
future growth whilst taking advantage of longer-term and lower-
cost bond finance.  On 2 March 2005, we announced a £600
million bond issue that received an excellent response from
investors leading to very attractive interest rates.  The highly
innovative bond was securitised on just under half of the pub
estate, including both managed and tenanted formats, so that
we could retain the ability to transfer pubs between the two.
Through this re-financing, we have been able to save around £6
million a year in interest costs and enhance total returns to
shareholders.
Pub Company
Pub Company, our managed house division, reported an increase
in turnover of 50% to £495.9 million and an increase in trading
profit of 65% to £93.8 million.  As a result of the Laurel acquisition,
the average number of pubs trading during the period increased
from 551 to 801.  
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 9
After the year end, in July 2005, we announced the
acquisition of Ridley's the Essex brewer.  Ridley's has a high
quality pub estate, some popular ale brands and a sound
local free trade business. The business is ideally located in a
strongly developing part of the country which is close to the
centre of our operations. We are delighted with the purchase
and believe Ridley's will benefit from Greene King's scale
and investment and our expertise in managing an integrated
tenanted and brewing business.  Some of the brands we will
continue to brew include Old Bob and Tolly Original. 10 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 11
Our total like-for-like sales were up 1.7%.  This figure includes a
total of 398 pubs, all of which were in the estate at the start of the
year ended May 2004.
Both Pub Company and Pub Partners benefit from our ability to
transfer pubs between the two divisions, thereby enabling us to
maximise the profitability in each individual pub. During the year,
we transferred 117 outlets from Pub Company into the separate
division that was set up following the acquisition of Laurel.  These
pubs were smaller than our managed estate average and, in an
industry environment of rising overheads driven by external and
regulatory cost, their earnings fell below the threshold needed to
sustain this model. Conversely, their transfer into tenancies puts
them at the upper end of Pub Partners’ estate, providing a very
good business for the right tenants and a stronger, more
sustainable profit stream for the company. Over the year, the total
size of the Pub Company estate increased by 292 pubs to 820.
The average sales per pub increased by 3% and the average
trading profit per pub was up 13%. Trading margins improved 1.7
percentage points to 18.9%. This strong improvement in margin
was achieved by improved sourcing arrangements and tighter
product mix management.
During the year, we continued our strategy of effective capital
expenditure in our estate and invested £31.0 million in the
development of our estate. We further improved both the
targeting and execution of capital investment and, as a result, we
have been able to bring down the average spend per pub without
compromising on the final result. Consequently, the returns that
we achieved on this investment increased to 16%.
Pub Company continued its focus on improving the customer
offer and service. During the year, we launched a state of the art
system that allows house managers to promote activities tailored
specifically to their local markets. This system then enables all our
managers to share these initiatives, helping to increase levels of
best practice and drive organic growth. Ten new food menus were
also launched to ensure we remain at the forefront of consumer
tastes. The focus of these is on high quality, healthy food at
reasonable prices. Examples of our new dishes include smoked
haddock fishcakes and porcini mushroom risotto.
Pub Company is run in four divisions; Hungry Horse, Real Pubs
North and South, Town Local and Inns.
Hungry Horse is our only overtly branded format and the pubs are
mainly located in urban communities.  The outlets retain individuality
but are linked by the ‘Hungry Horse’ branding and great value food
menus.  The brand, which we acquired as part of the Magic Pub
Company in 1996, is a considerable success with consumers and
was recently named ‘Pub Retail Food Brand of the Year’ at the
Publican Awards.  At the year-end, we had 135 Hungry Horse outlets.
Following the acquisition of Laurel, we implemented an initiative to
classify the range of Real Pub sites in order to help streamline our
Trading Trading Trading
Pub Turnover profit profit change profit margin
Company (£m) (£m) (%) (%)
2004 331.6 56.9 +4 17.2
2005 495.9 93.8 +65 18.9 12 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
marketing and site development
processes going forward. The exercise
has helped us to identify a number of
formats or models that can be introduced
to other houses within this division and
include:
• Quality Local: a more upmarket pub
offer offering a traditional, quality 
pub feel
• Champion: a concept retained from
Laurel with a sport/activity-led offer
trading to a local community   
• M Series: a more modern interpretation of a community local
business providing appeal across the age-range.
Real Pubs continued to have a strong focus on sporting events
and are predominantly located at the heart of the communities in
which they are situated. These pubs operate more successfully
and efficiently without a collective branding. During the year we
introduced business models to help our managers clearly define
areas within our pubs where customers can play or watch sport
helping to increase the number of customers and profitability. 
Over the course of the year, we changed the name of our High
Street division to Town Local. The change reflects the more
traditional town image of the majority of our properties with very
few being on the competitive high street.  Inns, our fourth division,
is made up of traditional coaching inns and hotels that provide
accommodation, and a strong emphasis on high quality food and
a wide range of wines and cask ales. During the year we
implemented accommodation workshops for all hotels to teach
the latest techniques in driving room and yield management as
well as a new booking system allowing us to improve the
utilisation of room stock.
Pub Company’s success relies on its ability to attract customers and
provide them with an overall experience to ensure that they return.
Our strategy hinges on giving those who understand their customers
the best – our house managers – the flexibility to run their pubs in a
way that meets the expectations of the customers whilst, at the same
time, maximising the returns for our business.  This ability to harness
the talent and enterprise of our managers whilst maximising the
benefits of our scale is a key factor in our success.
Pub Company divisions Number of Number of 
outlets at outlets at 
2 May 2004 1 May 2005
Hungry Horse Branded pubs 137 135
with great value 
food business
Real Pubs Unbranded 129 357
community pubs
Town Local Unbranded town 127 171
centre and town
local pubs
Inns Mix of inns with 135 157
rooms and destination 
food businesses
T otal 528 820 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 13
Pub Partners
Pub Partners, our tenanted and leased pub business, delivered
another strong performance.  Turnover was up 8.8% to £125.1
million.  Trading profit increased by 13.0% to £54.0 million with
trading margins that improved by 1.6 percentage points to 43.2%.
Volume sales of beer increased by 2.5%, wines and spirits by
4.7% and soft drinks fell by 2.4%.
Pub Partners began the year with 1153 pubs.  During the period,
we transferred 84 pubs from Pub Company and 33 from the
Laurel acquisition and made one individual acquisition. A total of
27 outlets were sold during the year. At the year-end we had 1244
tenanted and leased properties.  Average trading profit per pub
increased by 8% based on an average number of pubs during the
period of 1187.
The capital investment in our estate totalled £10.4 million of which
£4.5 million related to property improvements and £5.9 million to
maintenance capital. In addition we spent £3.8 million on property
repairs through the revenue account. The improvement capital was
spread between 42 pubs at an average of £107k each. The returns
on investment remained strong.
We offer a number of different agreements to ensure the right
match for both the individual pub and lessee.  We do, however,
The industry leading Pub Partners “Extranet” ensures that
Greene King licensees have a clear advantage over their
competitors.  The “Extranet” is the most comprehensive
resource tool of its kind providing 24/7 access to legislation,
advice and business building support as well as
performance and trading information specific to each pub.
Trading Trading profit Trading profit
Pub Turnover profit change margin
Partners (£m) (£m) (%) (%)
2004 115.0 47.8 +9 41.6
2005 125.1 54.0 +13 43.2 14 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
differ from many other industry
operators in that, for the majority of our
pubs, we prefer shorter, non-assignable
tenancies to longer assignable leases.
The shorter tenancy is a better fit for our
high quality and well invested
community pubs and provides a
number of advantages for both our
tenants and ourselves.  For the tenants,
it allows a lower cost of entry and
commits us to sharing the costs of
maintaining the building. The main
benefit for us is that we retain the role of recruiting a new tenant if
our existing one decides to leave. These shorter tenancies
accounted for 78% of our estate.  The balance of the agreements
are longer–term assignable leases. These play an important role in
attracting talented lessees to those pubs where there is a higher
entry cost because they are more food-led or include letting
accommodation. Many of the original Old English Inns would fall
into this category.
The ability of our tenants and lessees to run successful businesses
is fundamental to Pub Partners’ performance. As a result, we have
focused on providing the very best information and infrastructure to
licensees. Our industry-leading support package has been
designed to add value to all areas of their businesses including
online systems to give them valuable customer information that they
need to maximise their takings; initiatives to protect them from
growing regulatory costs, and significant marketing support.  During
2004, we were proud to win the British Institute of Innkeeping’s
NITAS Award for best licensee induction programme, which was
deemed by the judges to be a ‘role model for the industry’. 
Pub Partners set up a specialist team that, following six months of
planning and preparation, has worked on behalf of all our tenants
and licensees to tackle the problems associated with the recent
licensing reforms. The team produced and distributed a full
briefing pack to them all, as well as visiting each one to help them
complete the premises’ licence and to give advice on how to
complete their personal licence application form. Pub Partners
invested a total of over £1.5 million in this initiative and has saved
each of our tenants and licensees up to £2.5k.
Pub Partners has updated its ‘Share and Save’ buying brochure
which now includes over 50 suppliers offering licensees discounts
and saving them between 10%-20% against trade prices across
all product areas. We have also introduced ‘Starline’, a dedicated
maintenance and repair customer service line to ensure tenants
can report issues as they occur and receive a fast and effective
response. This new service is achieving over 98.2% response rate
to tenant calls and continues to be seen as one of the
cornerstones of our support package. We have further enhanced
our product and marketing support with the launch of the
‘Business Builder Toolkit’, in addition to our seasonal and monthly
sales building offers. Finally an enhanced pub investment package
was launched, designed to make it easier for the tenant to plan
how they might develop and improve their facilities in the future. 
Pub Partners’ success is built on attracting the best tenants to its
high-quality pubs and helping them to develop their businesses
with an industry-leading support package.  We will continue to
invest in all aspects of our operations and are confident of a
profitable future for both our tenants and our company.  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 15
Brewing Company
Brewing Company produced another strong performance.  Total
own-brewed volume grew by 3% and this was achieved at
maintained prices in an overall cask ale market that declined by
4% in volume.  All of our brands performed strongly with volume
sales of Greene King IPA up by 4%, Old Speckled Hen by 6% and
Abbot Ale by 4%. The performance of our brands led to an
increase in turnover of 5.2% to £111.6 million. Trading profit grew
by 10.6% to £17.8 million with an increase to the trading margin
of 0.8 percentage points to 15.9%.
2004 was an historic year for the company. Greene King IPA won
gold in the Champion Beer of Britain Awards and soon afterwards
(according to AC Nielsen) overtook Tetley’s Bitter to become the
Number One cask beer brand in the UK. These are fantastic
achievements. They are testament to the pride shown in the
brand by members of the Brewing Company team, and to the
hard work they have put into product quality, marketing and sales.
Overall, our share of the UK cask ale market increased by 0.7
percentage points against a market that continues to show
decline of around 4% per year.  According to data from AC
Nielsen, Abbot Ale continues to be the number one premium cask
beer in the South East. Old Speckled Hen further cemented its
In August 2004, Greene King IPA won Gold in the bitter
category of the Champion Beer of Britain Awards. We 
have always been proud of the beer, and this tremendous
accolade from CAMRA was a welcome endorsement. 
Our focus on quality and consistency over the past few
years means that our beer is the best it ever has been and
this is reflected in the continued sales growth of all our
brands. In spring 2005 Abbot Ale won a silver award and
was the highest placed English beer in the prestigious
International Beer Competition.
Trading Trading profit Trading profit
Brewing Turnover profit change margin
Company (£m) (£m) (%) (%)
2004 106.1 16.1 +21 15.2
2005 111.6 17.8 +11 15.9 16 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05 17
position as the number one premium ale brand in the multiple
grocery market, selling 11.4 million bottles this year.
The sale of our brands in all four external channels continued to
perform well. These represent the independent free trade, on-
trade national accounts, the take home trade and exports. During
the year, sales to these channels accounted for 79% of total own
brewed sales and highlights the continued demand for our
premium cask ales.
The effective advertising and marketing of our brands played an
important role in developing customer appeal, whilst supporting
our position at the premium end of the market. We remain the
largest advertiser of cask ale in the United Kingdom, successfully
launching new advertising campaigns for Greene King IPA and
Abbot Ale. Other marketing initiatives have included an Abbot Ale
Perfect Pub competition that attracted over 10,000 entries, the
Promotion of Six Nations Rugby and the continued support of the
Wasps and Laurence Dallaglio.
There were significant developments with our ‘Beer to Dine For’.
This innovative beer was launched in 2003 as part of our campaign
to encourage people to drink beer with their meals. As a result of
successfully positioning the beer with a stylish and contemporary
image and of promoting it through experiential marketing activity,
the brand now sells in over 40% of UK supermarkets, including
Tesco, who, during the year, added this unique beer to its range of
Greene King products.
Further successful promotions designed to widen our consumer
base included the March 2005 launch of the national ‘Beer with
Food Week’ in partnership with the Morning Advertiser, activity with
the All Parliamentary Beer Group and the BBC Good Food Show. 
The brewery at Bury St Edmunds continued to run at maximum
efficiency and is currently at 95% capacity on a two-shift system.
Running the brewery in this way means we do not have to resort
to lower margin contract brewing. Capacity can be increased
when necessary and at minimal cost. We have planning
permission for additional fermenting vessels and we have started
to run trials on the introduction of a third shift.
Brewing Company continuously strives to have the best brands,
products and customer service in the sector. The progress that
we have made in all of these areas brings us closer to realising our
ambition of being Britain’s Best Beer Business.
Industry Challenges
Applications under the Licensing Act 2003 for all of our pubs, in both
estates, will be submitted by the end of July 2005. This is in advance
of the August deadline. The trading hours in the majority of our pubs
will not change substantially but, where there is specific customer
demand, we do expect to benefit from minor extensions to existing
trading hours. In the November 2004 White Paper, the Government
set out its proposals for a ban on smoking in public places at the end
Market share Greene Greene
King King
2004 2005
(%) (%)
On-trade cask ale – Great Britain 11.4 12.1
Take home trade – Great Britain
-   Ale 8.0 9.0
-   Premium bottled ale 15.1 15.6
(Source:  AC Nielsen, Grocery Multiples, 11/06/05, MAT value) 18 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04/05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
of 2008. Consultation for these proposals continues but, in the mean
time, our planning is already at an advanced stage.  This is built on
our commitment to providing all of our customers – non-smoking
and smoking – with continued choice and a memorable experience,
as well as ensuring a healthy working environment for our staff.  Our
estate is weighted towards food-led and family-orientated pubs and
these are perceived to be at less risk from the ban.
Within Pub Company, both smoking at the bar and back of house
will be removed from all of our pubs by the end of 2005.  We are
also committed to increasing the overall non-smoking floor space
going forward.  At the same time, 83% of our managed pubs have
external space that will enable us, with limited investment, to
provide an attractive environment for smokers after the ban is
introduced.  So far in 2005, we have invested in 80 outlets and we
will be continuing this initiative in the current financial year.  
In Pub Partners, our tenants and lessees will decide how best to
respond to the proposed ban in the context of their own businesses.
As with our managed pubs, this estate has a high proportion of outlets
with external space at 89%.  We expect to begin consultation in
October 2005 to support our tenants in advance of the smoking ban
and to explore relevant capital investment in their sites.
Lastly, there has been considerable recent attention on responsible
drinking and this has focused on promotional activity and issues
surrounding city centre pubs, in particular.  We are not at the
forefront of this debate because very few of our pubs are on the high
street and we do not use pricing as a primary competitive tool.
However, this has not distracted us from our ongoing commitment
to running a responsible and sustainable business. In Brewing
Company, the message ‘Please take as much care enjoying our
beers as we do brewing them – Drink Sensibly’ will be on all of our
packaging by the autumn.  In Pub Company, we have strict
guidelines to ensure that alcoholic drinks are marketed and priced
appropriately, supported by extensive training programmes for our
employees.  These efforts were rewarded during the year when
Greene King Pub Company was named as a finalist in the Morning
Advertiser, Responsible Retailing Awards.
Prospects
Last year was one of significant progress for the group leading to
record results. The acquisition of Laurel, its successful integration
and an improved funding structure have made Greene King a
stronger business. 
Trading in the current year has begun well for all three of our
divisions and is in line with expectations. In the first eight weeks,
total like-for-like sales in Pub Company, excluding the Euro 2004
effect, were up by 1.9%. In Pub Partners, beer sales have
improved by 8.0% and Brewing Company's total beer sales by
volume have improved by 3.0%. We have a proven strategy that
delivers value for our shareholders and there are exciting
opportunities to deliver further growth in the future
Rooney Anand
Chief Executive
5 July 2005
