 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
3
Results
It is my welcome task to report a very good set of figures for the
52 weeks to 29 April 2007. The results this year include a first
time contribution of 34 weeks from Hardys & Hansons, which we
acquired in September 2006, and a full year from Belhaven, which
includes 22 weeks of non-comparable trading. All profit figures in
this statement are shown before exceptional items.
Our revenue for the year increased by 12% to £917.5m and
operating profit by 14% to £218.1m. We therefore raised our
profit margin once again and it now stands at 23.8%. I am
particularly pleased that all four of our trading divisions produced
profit figures which were ahead of last year’s, as this underlines
the strength we draw from our business model.
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 17% to
£139.8m and our earnings per share by 16% to 64.8p. This is the
thirteenth successive year in which we have delivered compound
annual growth in earnings per share of 10 per cent or more.
Dividend
The board has taken the decision to increase the total dividend for
the year by 14% which will help to raise the yield for
shareholders. We recommend a final dividend payment of 16.45p
which will produce a total dividend of 22.9p for the year. If
approved, the final dividend will be paid on 10 September to those
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 August. 
Acquisition
We acquired Hardys & Hansons plc on 5 September last year. They
had a long history as an integrated brewer and pub company,
based at Kimberley in Nottinghamshire, and their assets included
268 pubs, of which 83 were run under management and 185 as
tenancies or leaseholds. Many Hardys & Hansons people have
joined our business, and have been welcomed to contribute
towards our future success, and the properties have now been
fully integrated into our estate.
Disposal
As part of the continual process of wanting to improve the quality
of our trading assets, we have sold 191 pubs during the year. This
included one particular package of 155 properties, which were
widely spread across our trading area and raised £56.5m.
The board
We have two new members of the board this year. Ian Durant
joined us as a non-executive director in March and has become a
member of our audit committee. He formerly served as finance
director for two different listed companies in the Jardine
Matheson group and was more recently chief financial officer of
Sea Containers Ltd. We look forward to benefiting greatly from his
broad property, retail and financial experience.
In April we appointed Jonathan Lawson as managing director of
our local pubs division. This followed our decision to split Pub
Company into two specialist divisions, to provide more focus to
the business and to allow the potential further expansion of our
managed estate without prejudicing our flat line management
structure. Jonathan was retail operations director of Sainsbury’s
convenience stores and will, we believe, bring a valuable fresh
perspective to running our local pubs.
These two arrivals followed two departures. I thanked Alan
Bowkett for his service as a non-executive director in last year’s
report and he left after the AGM. I would now like to do the same
for Mark Angela, who was managing director of Pub Company
until leaving us in April this year. Mark was with us for just over
three years, during which time our managed estate expanded
greatly, particularly through the acquisition of the Laurel pubs in
2004. I would like to thank him for his contribution to the
continued success of our Pub Company during his time with us.
People
Our business is all about people and we have a huge number of
very good people. Some have worked for the company for many
years and some have joined in the last year, but everyone’s
efforts towards the well-being and success of Greene King are
fully appreciated and crucial to our future. I would like to thank all
of our people for being part of a proud and determined team.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006/07 
TIM BRIDGE
CHAIRMAN
2 July 2007 
