 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW
5
Once again, Greene King’s results for the financial year 2006/7
show strong growth right across our businesses. Revenue was up
12%, operating profit up 14% and profit before tax up 17%. As
throughout this document, the profit figures are shown before
exceptional items. This result has delivered adjusted earnings per
share up 16% to 64.8p, and has allowed the board to recommend
a full-year dividend up 14% to 22.9p.
We have thus continued our run of uninterrupted earnings
growth, which has spanned over four decades.
We aim to achieve sustainable, consistent growth in organic sales,
and in the value of our assets, augmented by appropriate
acquisitions at the right price. We focus on the efficiency of our
operations, and our success in this area allows us both to reinvest
in the business and to continue to grow margins.
We strive continually to evolve our offer to meet customers’ ever-
growing demands. Our focus is always on our customers, and our
approach is built on developing and leveraging our key assets to
meet their expectations: a high-quality estate, first-rate people,
and strong brands and trading formats.
With our largely freehold estate, we focus primarily on suburban
and community sites rather than the more volatile high street. We
will continue to evaluate appropriate acquisition opportunities
and attractive individual sites. Actively managing our property
portfolio is central to our business. As well as expanding the
estate, we churn regularly to uphold and improve the average
standard. Having both managed and tenanted/leased divisions
means we can also transfer sites both ways between these
business models, to optimise their individual potential.
We place great value on recruiting the best pub managers and
area managers, and on developing long-term partnerships with
tenants and lessees. It was a particular pleasure this year that in
the Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers’ area management
awards, Greene King managers were the winners in both the
managed and tenanted/leased classes. The team, from the board
down, features a blend of talents and diverse career backgrounds,
which combine to make a formidable force in the market. 
The Greene King brand is a powerful asset, both with consumers
and in the trade – representing all that is good not only in real ale,
but also in the great British pub. This year, we demonstrated our
commitment to it by taking our brand onto prime time television,
with our ‘Sign of a Great Pub’ sponsorship of ITV1’s Ant & Dec’s
Saturday Night Takeaway. We have long believed that there is a
vital role both for branded outlets, such as our Hungry Horse family
value pubs; and a diverse set of individual locals. At the end of the
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006/07  financial year we formalised this distinction, and better positioned
both strands for further growth, by creating two new divisions from
our managed estate: Destination Pubs and Local Pubs.
We are heavy investors in advertising and other brand marketing.
This, alongside our rigorous quality standards, enables us to ensure
that our ale brands continue to trade at a premium to the market. 
Pub Company
During 2006/7, we had an average of 781 managed pubs trading
in England and Wales in our Pub Company division. A combination
of strong organic growth, targeted investment, the Hardys &
Hansons acquisition, estate churn and careful cost control has
delivered strong profit growth.
Operating profit rose 8% to £110.7m on revenue up 6% at £546.0m. 
Total like-for-like sales were 3.4% ahead, continuing our record
over a number of years of steady, sustainable sales growth. We do
not chase sales growth for its own sake, but seek to build
customer loyalty and margin.
The operating profit margin was 20.3%, an improvement of 0.5
percentage points on 2005/6, continuing our long run of margin
growth, despite major cost pressures during the year, especially in
energy and Sky TV.
In the run-up to the smoking ban, we have pursued further
development programmes for our mealtime, late-evening food, soft
drinks and wine ranges, and added branded coffee offers in many
outlets, and improved the quality of our outside trading areas.
Within Pub Company, we invested £20.8m in some 70 major
property improvements. Additionally, £12.6m went on
maintenance capex, with a further £8.5m spent on repairs from
the revenue account. These figures exclude the investments we
have made in facilities relating specifically to the smoking ban.
Pub Company began the financial year with 761 pubs. 83 pubs
were added from the Hardys & Hansons estate, 32 pubs were
divested and 21 transferred to Pub Partners, as part of our
ongoing programme of estate re-balancing. 5 were transferred to
Belhaven and 2 were acquired. The closing balance was therefore
788 sites, segmented as follows: 
In March we won The Publican’s ‘Pub Company of the Year’ award.
This is the third time our managed division has won the accolade.
It is a great testament to the quality of our business, and the
efforts of all our employees.
The number of managed pubs in Greene King has risen by over
50% since 2000. At the end of the financial year, we re-shaped
our managed houses business, creating two new divisions. This
move creates headroom for potential further growth, while
retaining a flat management structure and keeping the whole
organisation as close as possible to the customer. It has been
achieved without any increase in cost. The new divisions are:
• Destination Pubs (278 sites): focused on branded or strongly-
formatted pubs, most of which are food-intensive. This division
is led by Jonathan Webster, formerly chief executive of Hardys
& Hansons.
• Local Pubs (510 sites): focused on community, town-local and
town-traditional pubs, where more decision-making on the
‘feel’ and activities of the outlet will be devolved to local level,
to reflect their individual markets. To lead this division,
Jonathan Lawson joins us from Sainsbury’s Local, where he was
instrumental in delivering top-line growth through
entrepreneurialism among local store managers.
Number of Pubs April 2006 April 2007
Hungry Horse 126 107
Real Pubs 341 371
Town Locals 152 140
Inns 142 170
Total 761 788
52 weeks 05/06 06/07 Change
Average number
of pubs trading 784 781 --
Revenue £516.5m £546.0m +6%
EBITDA £128.2m £138.0m +8%
Operating profit £102.1m £110.7m +8%
Operating profit margin 19.8% 20.3% + 0.5 %pts
Revenue per pub £658.8k £699.1k +6%
Operating profit per pub £130.2k £141.7k +9%
6
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006/07 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW  8
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006/07 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW
Pub Partners
Pub Partners is our tenanted and leased pubs division in England
and Wales. Underlying sales growth, margin management and
churning of the estate have combined to deliver a 6%
improvement in operating profits per pub. This, together with the
effect of an additional 107 pubs trading on average in the division,
has delivered operating profit growth of 15% year on year.
The operating profit of £74.7m was on revenue up 10% to £164.0m.
The operating profit margin was 45.5%, up 2.2 percentage points on
the previous year. Like-for-like sales rose 1.7%.
A total of £10.8m was invested across the Pub Partners estate,
including 55 major investments started in the year. An additional
£5.7m went on maintenance capex, and £4.6m on repairs from
the revenue account. These figures exclude additional monies
spent by licensees.
At the start of the financial year, 1,353 pubs were trading. The
Hardys & Hansons acquisition brought 185 more sites, and 21
pubs transferred in from Pub Company. We also sold the 142 pubs
which we felt were most exposed to the smoking ban, well ahead
of the ban. The closing balance was therefore 1,417 pubs.
An average of 1,431 sites traded over the year, 94% of them
bearing Greene King branding. Almost 80% are tenanted, with the
balance on a lease agreement. In both business models we are
aiming to build partnerships, and lead the industry in terms of
support and ways of working. This was acknowledged in the
Morning Advertiser annual survey (September 2006), where our
area managers scored the highest in terms of receiving an
‘excellent’ rating, and we were seen as making the most effort to
‘become a better partner‘ by licensees. 
To capture more sales in wines, spirits and minerals we have
introduced a new tenancy agreement which gives even more
attractive prices on these products. We are making more sites
available for lease, to attract a greater number of entrepreneurial
licensees. To retain control over the quality of the asset and the
trading style adopted by the licensee, we have launched a new
lease agreement, assignable only after four years.
We have provided extensive support to tenants to help them
prepare for the smoking ban, with an assisted purchase scheme
for smoking shelters, and provision of assistance with marketing
and planning applications.
Brewing Company
Brewing Company is our brand management, brewing and
distribution business in England and Wales. Following a very
strong second half performance, revenue was up 4% on the
previous year, to £91.1m, while operating profit was up 12% to
£23.0m. The operating profit margin was therefore 25.2%, an
improvement of 1.8 percentage points from 2005/6.
Our brand strategy leads on Greene King IPA in the on-trade and
Old Speckled Hen in the off-trade – each supported by the other;
by our other main brands Abbot Ale and Ruddles; and by an
extensive portfolio of specialist and seasonal ales. Both Greene
King IPA and Old Speckled Hen further grew their market shares,
and total own-brewed volume was up 2.1% against a beer market
down by -1.7%* and an ale market down by -7%*.
Greene King IPA, Britain’s No. 1 cask ale, became the Official Beer
of England Rugby in October. We are delighted to have Greene
King IPA associated with rugby in the year of the rugby World
Cup. The launch of Greene King IPA Chilled provides access to the
growing category of extra cold beer. 
Old Speckled Hen, the best-selling premium ale in supermarkets,
was re-launched in a new livery and bottle. In the on-trade, the
gravity was lowered to 4.5% ABV, to build distribution and rate of
sale. The results have been encouraging, with the brand growing
7% last year in the on-trade. 
*Source: BBPA Monthly MAT April 2007
52 weeks 05/06 06/07 Change
Revenue £87.7m £91.1m +4%
Operating profit £20.6m £23.0m +12%
Operating profit margin 23.5% 25.2% + 1.8 %pts
52 weeks 05/06 06/07 Change
Average number
of pubs trading 1,324 1,431 +8%
Revenue £149.6m £164.0m +10%
EBITDA £70.0m £80.6m +15%
Operating profit £64.9m £74.7m +15%
Operating profit margin 43.4% 45.5% + 2.2 %pts
EBITDA per pub £52.9k £56.3k +7%
Operating profit per pub £49.0k £52.2k +6% CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW
9
Belhaven
* 2005/6 numbers on pro-forma basis
Belhaven’s results were comfortably ahead of our expectations in
2005 when Greene King acquired the Scottish business, and we
are particularly encouraged by Belhaven’s strong finish to the
financial year.
Belhaven’s revenue, trading profit and trading profit margin all
grew year on year, a significant achievement in the first year of
the Scottish smoking ban.
Each part of Belhaven contributed to the success. Belhaven’s
brewing business significantly outperformed competitors with
on-trade beer volumes up 2.2% on the preceding year in a market
which was down by 7.2%. Belhaven brand sales volumes were up
2.4% with Belhaven Best, Scotland’s on-trade market leading
draught ale, improving volume by 5.6%.
Belhaven’s managed pubs grew both sales and margin. A
combination of new openings and over 25% growth in food sales
compensated for a slight decline in beer sales and machine income.
The tenanted/leased business also performed well, and benefited
further from estate churn and improved wholesale beer margins. 
26 pubs were added during the financial year mainly through
single site acquisitions and there were 17 disposals of smaller,
lower-quality units, leaving the estate at the close of the year at
299 houses (200 tenanted / leased and 99 managed).
Hardys & Hansons
On 5 September we completed the acquisition of Hardys &
Hansons plc. The acquisition brought us 268 sites: 83 managed
and 185 tenanted. 97% of the jobs at Hardys & Hansons were
retained. Most of the pubs are in the East Midlands, which is adjacent
to our heartland; and the acquisition has extended our core territory
in a very efficient way from a sales and distribution perspective. I
described it at the time as a “hand-in-glove fit” and so indeed it has
proved. At the time of the deal, we estimated £5m annual synergies,
£3m of them in the first full year. Capture of these synergies is on
track. Additionally, we are now gaining operational know-how about
the running of larger-format food pubs. I am delighted that Jonathan
Webster accepted my invitation to stay with Greene King and lead
our new Destination Pubs division.
Disposal of 155 pubs
On 1 December, we completed the sale of 155 pubs to Admiral
Taverns, for the sum of £56.5m. These pubs generated historic
pre-overhead EBITDA of £5.3m. Along with the deal, we secured
an attractive beer supply agreement with Admiral for their entire
estate in England. We will continue to dispose of, as well as to
acquire, sites in a timely manner and at the right price, in order to
optimise the quality of our estate.
Capital efficiency
We are committed to maximising value to shareholders through a
combination of acquisitions, organic investment and return of
surplus funds. Key to this is finding the appropriate balance
between retaining financial flexibility on the one hand, and
driving balance sheet efficiency on the other. Due to the strong
cash generation of our business, and the changes we have made
to our debt structure, our fixed charge cover currently stands at
2.8x, which we believe is now sub-optimal.
We therefore intend to move towards fixed charge cover of 2.3x
over the next twelve to eighteen months. This ratio we will
continue to keep under close review.
Of the funds thus generated, we intend to return at least £100m to
shareholders in financial year 2007/8, in the form of share buy-
backs, additional to the £28m of buy-backs already executed this
financial year. The balance will be available to fund a combination of
further acquisitions, on which we have a strong track record of value-
creative deals; organic investment; and the return of additional
funds to shareholders in the form of further share buy-backs.
Unlocking property value
Greene King has in place a securitisation arrangement covering
1,632, or 65%, of our pubs, representing EBITDA of £165.4m.
There remain, therefore, 872 or 35% of our pubs outside the
securitisation arrangement.
52 weeks 05/06* 06/07 Change
Revenue £115.1m £116.4m +1%
Operating profit £22.4m £23.3m +4%
Operating profit margin 19.5% 20.0% + 0.6 %pts
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006/07   The board has reviewed in detail a wide range of options to
maximise the value release from these unsecuritised assets,
including a separate Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), an
extension of the existing securitisation, and the creation of an
‘OpCo/PropCo’ structure with a joint-venture partner. 
The board believes that an OpCo/PropCo structure with a joint-
venture partner for all or a proportion of the unsecuritised part of
the estate may deliver the best balance between realising value
and retaining some operational control. With the right joint-
venture partner, and on the right terms, we believe that we could
benefit from additional skills and disciplines which will further
help us to unlock property value from our estate. Assuming the
right conditions, we would anticipate a transaction during the
course of this financial year. Throughout this process, we remain
committed to achieving and maintaining balance sheet efficiency.
The smoking ban in England
The smoking ban in enclosed public spaces in England has now
come into effect. Although it is too early to measure actual
results, we believe we are very well placed both to meet the
challenges and to capitalise on the opportunities presented by
the ban, for the following reasons:
• We have high-quality sites, over 95% of which have usable
exterior areas
• Our preparations for the ban have stretched over a number of
years, gradually introducing non-smoking areas and building
‘smoking solutions’ into developments
• We have also over a number of years been broadening both our
customer base among women and families, and our sales mix to
elevate the importance of food 
• Our exposure to all major trade channels in Scotland means we
have been able to ‘learn in advance’ and adapt plans from
Belhaven’s experiences
• Specific actions preparatory to the ban, including the
installation of smoking shelters and marketing and
communications programmes, have been delivered on schedule.
In total we will have spent £10m on smoking ban projects
Current trading and outlook
Trading in the first eight weeks of the current financial year has
been in line with our expectations. Total like-for-like sales in our
managed houses in England and Wales were up 1%; underlying
total like-for-like sales, excluding the World Cup effect, were up by
3%. Like-for-like sales at Pub Partners were up 1%, while Brewing
Company's own-brewed volume sales were up 6%. Belhaven Best
sales were up 6%.
We are well prepared for the smoking ban, which has just come
into force in England. The actions we have taken, combined with
the quality and positioning of our estate, will enable us to meet
the challenge and to grasp the opportunity, as we widen our
customer base.
We are confident that we will continue to deliver a strong
performance throughout the course of the year.
The intrinsic quality of our assets, combined with the talents of
our team, and the benefit of recent acquisitions, provide exciting
opportunities to deliver further underlying growth in the future.
Furthermore, our plans to release capital from our balance sheet
and to unlock value from our property estate will generate
substantial additional value for our shareholders.
ROONEY ANAND
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
2 July 2007
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW
11 
