 CEO’s Review
”The company is starting anew its voyage
to transform allergy treatment”
06 Following a period of heavy investment
since the IPO in 2004 – completing one of
the most extensive product development
programmes in the field of allergy vaccines
and also upgrading both the supply and
the commercial operations – the Group 
is now capitalising on those investments.
With a strengthened balance sheet and 
a new cornerstone investor, a product
proceeding through the registration
process in Europe (the biggest market 
for allergy vaccines), and a new Chief 
Executive with extensive and appropriate
experience in the sales and marketing 
of pharmaceuticals, the Company is 
starting anew its voyage to transform 
allergy treatment. 
Allergy vaccination continues its progress
from a niche treatment into the mainstream
of the pharmaceuticals industry. 
We welcome this development, as we
have long believed in evidence-based
medicine and registered products. 
This transition, as with all change, 
does bring challenges, one of which is 
responding to the requirements of the
Paul Ehrlich Institut (‘PEI’). The PEI 
Ordinance, which aims to implement 
the EU Directive on pharmaceutical 
regulation and so bring allergy vaccination
into regulatory line with mainstream
pharmaceuticals, will require Allergy
Therapeutics and other market participants
to undertake some work, quality and 
clinical, as well as administrative, 
to achieve national registration of products
treating the most common allergies. 
We have an extensive plan to meet these
new requirements and anticipate that the
competitive scene will change favourably
in Germany over coming years as the 
PEI Ordinance is implemented and some
products are removed from the market. 
Our development programmes in the USA
remain on FDA Clinical Hold. The situation
is still likely to be determined by the context
of an FDA review of vaccine adjuvants in
general. It is notable that although the
FDA has never approved a vaccine 
adjuvant, vaccines containing our adjuvant,
MPL, have been granted marketing 
approvals in approximately 100 countries
and, in GSK’s Cervarix, MPL has been 
approved by the World Health 
Organisation. Following the recent 
positive FDA Advisory Committee meeting
we remain optimistic that GSK’s recent
resubmission of Cervarix for US approval
will be successful and will mark the end
of the FDA adjuvant review, thereby 
providing an opportunity for us to open
discussions with the FDA regarding lifting
of our Clinical Hold. Such a discussion
will cover the risk:benefit profile of our
products and their ‘place in treatment’. 
It would be our hope to conclude these
discussions with an agreed way forward
to continue our development programme,
which will involve further safety and 
efficacy trials. It is however, not possible
to pre-judge the outcome.
It is worth remembering that for allergy
vaccines manufactured under GMP 
by ethical pharmaceutical companies, 
Europe remains the biggest market by 
far and that other markets are generally
considered to be undeveloped. We were
pleased to announce earlier this year the
granting of two further patents; one for
Japan, covering the technology behind
Pollinex Quattro, with the other covering
the entire EU for the sub-lingual use of
our MPL adjuvant for the oral vaccine 
delivery with any antigen. Our strategy
remains to further develop the Company’s
intellectual property with the assistance
of partners who will provide the financial
resources required. 
Allergy can be a debilitating condition,
and moderate to severe patients often do
not respond to pharmacotherapies such as
antihistamines. In these cases, specialist
treatment is required. Injected allergy
vaccines such as Pollinex Quattro are
well-suited to these patients. Compliance
is excellent and in the rare case of serious
adverse events the physician’s office is
the right place for these to be handled.
The European market for allergy vaccines
exceeds€600m; Allergy Therapeutics’
market share approximately 6%. 
We believe that with Pollinex Quattro,
which offers efficacy comparable to 
that of traditional allergy desensitising 
immunotherapy which often requires 20
or more shots, and to that of sublingual
allergy vaccines (SLIT), which requires
daily dosing for several months, this market
share can be grown. 
We are confident that Allergy Therapeutics
is well placed to capitalise on the 
investments of the past, win market 
share within Europe and grow profitably.
Keith Carter
Chief Executive Officer 
(up to 31 August 2009)
18 September 2009
Manuel Llobet
Chief Executive Officer
18 September 2009
“We are confident that Allergy Therapeutics
is well placed to capitalise on the 
investments of the past, win market 
share within Europe and grow profitably”
www.allergytherapeutics.com 07
