 Chairman’s Statement
”A major achievement was the submission in March
of our ultra-short course for injection grass allergy
vaccine for marketing approval in Europe”
04 This financial year has been an eventful
one in which we submitted Pollinex 
Quattro Grass for approval in Europe,
grew year on year sales by 22%, funded
the conclusion of a significant R&D 
programme, have been granted two 
further patents, enjoyed the best ever
supply performance from our 
manufacturing units, and just after the
year-end, in July, we refinanced the
Group and strengthened the board. 
Allergy Therapeutics is a strong business
and we were able to raise £22.1m from
shareholders in July 2009, with the 
Weinstein family, whose interests in 
pharmaceuticals span over 20 countries
from their South American base, acting
as a cornerstone investor. It is largely to
the credit of our shareholders that they
overwhelmingly approved the transaction
and several shareholders increased their
investment in the Company in a difficult
market. We thank all the shareholders,
new and old, for their support. 
The refinancing in July involved a £9.4m
repayment of debt to RBS and a revision
of the terms of the loan facilities, providing
the Company with ample financial 
headroom for the foreseeable future. 
The Group is now in a strong and stable
financial position and is able to focus on
the business of growing sales, achieving
a profit and treating allergy sufferers
across Europe. 
As a consequence of the financing there
have been changes to the board, 
with Keith Carter agreeing to step down
as CEO to allow Manuel Llobet, a highly
experienced executive from the Weinstein
family pharmaceutical businesses, to take
over the role. Keith will remain on the
board as a non-executive and be joined 
in that capacity by Alejandro Weinstein 
as senior representative of the Weinstein
family which now owns over 40% of the
Company. Keith is one of the founders of
Allergy Therapeutics, having played a
leading role in the buy-in from SmithKline
Beecham in 1998 and under his leadership
the Group grew from £11m to £37m in 
sales, completed its IPO, raised over
£90m in funding, conducted two 
successful development programmes,
made a submission for regulatory 
approval and comprehensively upgraded
all its operations. I thank Keith for his
great contribution. 
I welcome Manuel and Alejandro to the
board. They are both pharmaceuticals
professionals, with a wealth of experience
in many markets, geographical and 
therapeutic. Their expertise, in particular
with respect to sales and marketing, 
will be valuable to the Group as it continues
its drive to grow sales and increase 
market share. 
A major achievement was the submission
in March 2009 of Pollinex Quattro Grass
our ultra-short course four injection grass
allergy vaccine for marketing approval in
Europe. This represents the culmination
of a ten year journey from a pre-clinical
idea through an exhaustive series of 
clinical trials to the successful completion
of Phase III efficacy and safety studies.
Product launch is expected in Germany in
the second half of 2010 and subsequently
elsewhere in Europe, and will enable 
Allergy Therapeutics to increase prices
and accelerate sales growth in its current
markets as well as entering new European
markets.
Other highlights include another good
year from our manufacturing and supply
operations, providing excellent service to our
customers and continued compliance and
quality excellence. Investment continues in
improved methods and equipment to
both de-risk the business and improve 
future margins. Revenues grew 22% year-
on-year supported by a stronger Euro,
but despite a low pollen season which
impacts Allergy Therapeutics as our 
main Pollinex Quattro product exclusively
addresses the hay-fever market.
These last twelve months have been very
eventful and have presented many 
challenges to the management and staff
at Allergy Therapeutics. I am proud and
unsurprised to say that the team has
risen to these challenges, identified the
opportunities contained within them, 
and that the Group is now much stronger
as a result. We have strengthened the
balance sheet with major financing; 
and added to our development strength
with a major product submission; as well
as improving manufacturing, sales and
marketing operations capabilities.
Ignace Goethals
Chairman
18 September 2009
“The group is now
in a strong and 
stable financial
position and is 
able to focus on 
the business of 
growing sales”
www.allergytherapeutics.com 05
