 6
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Business review
I am pleased to report another strong
set of results for Greene King. For the
ﬁnancial year 2007/08, revenue was
up 5% at £960.5m, operating proﬁt
up 8% at £236.2m and proﬁt before
tax up 2% at £142.0m* . This has
led to adjusted earnings per share
up 14% to 74.0p, and has allowed
the board to recommend a full-year
dividend up 14% to 26.0p.
Pub and restaurant retailing delivered
encouraging growth in sales and proﬁt.
Pub Partners grew in both revenue and margins.
Our key beer brands achieved signiﬁcant
growth again, despite the declining ale market.
Common to all our businesses have been
the themes of:
 Delivering quality and value for money
 Mitigating cost increases and reducing
the ﬁxed-cost base
 Growing sales in strategic categories
 Investing for future growth
Trading conditions have become more difﬁcult.
We are a year into the English smoking ban
and consumer conﬁdence is at its lowest for
18 years. We have faced major cost increases
across a wide range of categories. Looking
forward, pubs will have to ﬁght even harder
to protect and grow their share of discretionary
spending, and on-trade beer sales will be
under considerable pressure. But there are
a number of our sales categories that continue
to grow, including eating out, premium drinks
and accommodation; and newer consumer
groups continue to be attracted to our outlets.
We are well placed to face the challenges.
We remain focused on what is most important
in our business: high-quality, good-value food
and drink in the unique setting of the British
pub. We have never chased sales for their
own sake, but rather sustainable proﬁt growth
over the long term – reﬂected in our strong
margins. We maintain a balance sheet with
comfortable headroom, asset-backed by a
well-invested and overwhelmingly freehold
pub estate. We continue to generate healthy
free cash ﬂow, and have a long-term record
of doing what is required to deliver
industry-leading results.
Over the past two years, we have been
implementing an accelerated programme of
change, to optimise our position relative to
expected market developments. A signiﬁcant
part of the estate has been churned and we
have continued to add quality sustainable
outlets and brought in further expertise via
Hardys & Hansons and Loch Fyne. Food sales
now stand at 34% of our Retail revenues:
adding in food-related drink sales, our dining
revenue now accounts for half of the total.
In ales we focus on a small number of brands
that can lead their categories. We have
rationalised the cost base in all businesses:
Retail, Tenancy and Brewing & Distribution.
Although all our divisions have performed
well in difﬁcult circumstances, I am
particularly encouraged by Belhaven’s result.
Scotland’s smoking ban came over a year
before England’s. In the second year of the
Scottish smoking ban, the Belhaven team
have developed the business signiﬁcantly
towards food and families, and delivered
operating proﬁt growth of 18%.
* As throughout this document, the proﬁt ﬁgures are
shown before exceptional items. The results are
positively impacted by an additional week’s trading
relative to last year. 7
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Key performance indicators
Strategic priority Performance Deﬁnition
Earnings per share
EPS grew just over 14% to 74.0p – the 14th
consecutive year of double digit EPS growth.
Excluding the impact of our share buyback
programme in the year, EPS growth would
have been 11%.
Dividend per share
Following the strong results achieved in the
year, the board has recommended a ﬁnal
dividend payment of 18.7p per share, producing
total dividend per share for the year of 26.0p,
an increase of 14% on last year.
PBTE
Proﬁt before tax and exceptionals grew 2%
to £142m. Excluding the impact of our share
buyback programme in the year, PBTE growth
would have been 8%.
Operating proﬁt margin
Our operating proﬁt margin grew 0.8% in the
year, a great effort given the cost pressures
the business faced. We do not pursue revenue
growth at the expense of margins as this
does not generate sufﬁcient cash to support
long-term growth.
Average proﬁt per outlet
In the year, we grew average proﬁt per outlet
in our Retail and in our tenanted/leased estates
by 3% and 8% respectively.
Fixed charge cover
We returned £149m to shareholders in
2007/08 via a share buy-back of 15.4m shares,
funded from debt. The higher interest payments
and slightly higher rental payments meant that
ﬁxed charge cover has fallen as planned to 2.3x
at the year end.
Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity
holders, excluding the effect of exceptional
items, divided by the weighted average number
of shares in issue during the period excluding
own shares held.
Total dividend per share paid and proposed
in respect of the period.
Group proﬁt for the period after ﬁnancing
charges but before tax and exceptional items.
Operating proﬁt, pre-exceptional items,
divided by group revenue for the period.
Operating proﬁt for the period,
pre-exceptionals, divided by the average
number of outlets in the period.
Fixed charge cover is calculated using the
formula EBITDAR (operating proﬁt before
depreciation, amortisation, rent and
exceptionals) less maintenance capex
divided by the sum of interest and rent.
74.0p 2008
2007 64.8p
26.0p 2008
2007 22.9p
£142.0m 2008
2007 £139.8m
24.6% 2008
2007 23.8%
Retail
£145,400 2008
2007 £141,700
2.3x 2008
2007 2.6x
Growth +14%
Growth +14%
Growth +2%
Growth +0.8%
Growth +3%
Pub Partners
£56,400 2008
2007 £52,200
Growth +8% Hungry Horse
“The new development has really
encouraged families into the pub.
We also have a playbarn which is
especially popular with the children.”
Laura Dixon
Waitress at the Ship
We have been undertaking a signiﬁcant programme of capital investment into our Hungry Horse pubs,
with over 26 having been redeveloped to date. The pubs now beneﬁt from a new livery and a rationalised
menu with additional value. The Ship in Mirﬁeld, West Yorkshire, has seen sales increase by over 40%
since re-opening.
8
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 9
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Retail
Business review
In Greene King Retail, made up of
our Local Pubs, Destination Pubs
and Loch Fyne Restaurants businesses,
sales were up 6% at £578.7m and
operating proﬁt up 5% at £116.5m.
Before the impact of the mainly
leasehold Loch Fyne restaurants,
Retail margins were up 0.5 percentage
points. Total like-for-like sales were
down 1%, while like-for-like food
sales were up by over 2%.
All businesses made meal deals more
prominent, many houses delayed passing on
the Chancellor’s budget increases in beer duty,
and, facing a strong euro, we introduced more
dollar-traded wines. We made major savings
from rationalising both menu items and
ingredients, energy savings have mitigated
increases in power costs, and we have
removed Sky from a number of pubs where
it made economic sense to do so.
Food and food-related sales now account for
half of our Retail sales and food remains our
top priority for sales growth. We have learned
much from Loch Fyne on development
planning, kitchen design, customer proﬁling
and direct marketing. The Locals team have
driven particularly high food growth this
year – focusing on top quality pub food, and
investing in kitchen upgrades to deliver this at
its very best. We have seen signiﬁcant growth
again in wine sales, and have agreed a wider
roll-out of Fairtrade coffee. The accommodation
business in Destination Pubs has been
upgraded with the replacement of all the beds
in Old English Inns, as well as improvements
to bathroom amenities and the breakfast offer.
Hungry Horse beneﬁts from a new livery, a
rationalised menu with additional value, and
an accelerated capital investment programme.
In the course of the year, we invested
£21.4m in 97 major property improvements.
Additionally, £27.0m went on maintenance
capex, with a further £7.5m on repairs from
the revenue account. Key strategic capital
projects included the upgrade of a further
tranche of pubs to the Premium Local format,
and beginning the conversion of a number
of pub sites to Loch Fyne restaurants, as well
as the major upgrades at Hungry Horse.
We began the ﬁnancial year with 788 Retail
sites. 36 sites were added from the Loch
Fyne acquisition, two new Loch Fyne sites
were acquired, 11 pubs were divested,
17 transferred to, and one from, Pub Partners,
and seven transferred to Belhaven. The closing
balance was therefore 792 sites, segmented
as follows:
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Average number
of pubs trading 781 801 +3% +3%
Revenue £546.0m £578.7m +6% +4%
EBITDA £138.0m £147.9m +7% +5%
Operating
proﬁt £110.7m £116.5m +5% +3%
Operating
proﬁt margin 20.3% 20.1% -0.1%pts -0.1%pts
Revenue per pub £699.1k £722.5k +3% +1%
Operating proﬁt
per pub £141.7k £145.4k +3% +1%
Outlets trading
Outlets at on average
year end during year
Local Pubs 492 500
Destination Pubs 261 273
Loch Fyne Restaurants 39 28
Total 792 801 10
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Business review
Pub
Partners
Revenue at Pub Partners, our
tenancy/lease division in England and
Wales, was up 2% at £167.2m, while
operating proﬁt rose 9% to £81.4m.
Hence the operating proﬁt margin
rose signiﬁcantly, by 3.1 percentage
points, to 48.7%. Like-for-like proﬁt
was unchanged year on year.
An average of 1,443 sites traded over the year.
At the start of the ﬁnancial year, 1,417 pubs
were trading. 53 sites were added from
acquisitions, mainly New Century Inns, while
12 were sold and 17 transferred in from the
Retail division, with one going the other way.
The closing balance was therefore 1,474 pubs.
Pub Partners is focused on our partners’
business health. We have cut the price of
soft drinks and bottled lager on many newer
agreements, to allow more attractive pricing
to the end customer. “Share & Save”, our
third-party purchasing programme, can add
10% to a typical participating pub’s bottom
line. We optimise rather than maximise
rents, balancing short-term rental yield against
tenant morale, viability and long-term security
of income. We offer both tenancies and leases
and we try to ensure we always have the right
licensee on the right agreement in the right
pub. However, in general we do favour
tenancies, which account for 79% of Pub
Partners sites. With a tenancy, the licensee’s
ﬁxed cost base is somewhat reduced
compared to a straight lease, and we retain
more control.
We are not immune to the difﬁculties in the
market, but we believe we are better placed
than many others. In the year, rent concessions
remained below 1% of rent roll and were
actually lower than the prior year, bad debts
accounted for just 0.3% of sales and 17 pubs
were closed. Applications remained healthy,
at 93% of the previous year’s level, and
we have appointed three new regional
recruitment and training managers, managing
the whole process from recruitment to the
end of a new licensee’s ﬁrst year.
During the period, a total of £8.7m was invested
across the Pub Partners estate, including 30
major investments. An additional £10.0m went
on maintenance capex, and £3.8m on repairs
from the revenue account. These ﬁgures
exclude additional monies spent by licensees.
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Average number
of pubs trading 1,431 1,443 +1% +1%
Revenue £164.0m £167.2m +2% +0%
EBITDA £80.6m £88.2m +9% +7%
Operating proﬁt £74.7m £81.4m +9% +7%
Operating
proﬁt margin 45.5% 48.7%+3.1%pts +3.1%pts
EBITDA per pub £56.3k £61.1k +9% +6%
Operating proﬁt
per pub £52.2k £56.4k +8% +6% Pub Partners Go for Growth training course is designed to help tenants grow their proﬁt to create long-term
sustainable businesses. Aimee and Ashley Winsbury-Cutts, licensees of the Dolphin, Stisted, Essex, attended the
course in May 2007. Following the advice, they repositioned the pub, changed food suppliers and, as a result,
increased both their food margin and their food covers by 100 to 500 per week. They also changed electricity
suppliers to achieve a signiﬁcant saving.
Pub Partners
“We learned a great deal on the
Go for Growth course, especially the
need to focus on constructive planning.
We are now ahead of the game and
intend to stay that way.”
Ashley Winsbury-Cutts
Licensee
11
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 Belhaven has undertaken a number of developments during the year, including to re-position young persons’
venues so that they appeal to a wider customer base. The City Walls, in Stirling, was redeveloped in the autumn
of 2007, and re-opened for business in December 2007. Previously with no natural light, the development
included the opening of an atrium roof, as well as a more welcoming entrance and increased seating inside.
It now offers freshly cooked value food and has seen sales increase by more than £25k per week.
12
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Belhaven
“The redevelopment of the pub has been
fantastic. With such a historic location
it was only right that we should make
the most of all that it has to offer.
Our customer base has increased
dramatically, and many come to
eat as well as to drink.”
Paul Young
Manager at the City Walls Chief executive’s review
13
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Business review
Belhaven
Belhaven, our Scottish division,
operates in managed pubs, tenanted/
leased pubs and brewing & drinks
distribution. In the second year of
trading following Scotland’s smoking
ban, the team delivered an outstanding
result, with revenue up 8% at
£126.1m, operating proﬁt up 18%
at £27.5m and the operating proﬁt
margin up 1.8 percentage points at
21.8%. All of Belhaven’s businesses
grew both sales and proﬁts.
The number of pubs trading grew during
the year from 299 to 321, including seven
pubs transferred from the English Retail
business just before the ﬁnancial year end.
95 of the 321 are managed and the balance
tenanted/leased. On average during the year,
306 pubs were trading.
In tenancy/lease, like-for-like rents and beer
supply income were both positive. Debt was
tightly controlled and support was given to
our tenants through various initiatives including
equitable beer pricing policies, ﬁnancial and
accounting guidance and catering planning
assistance; and we are taking the lead role
in ensuring that our tenanted and leased
pubs comply fully with the new Scottish
licensing regime.
Belhaven’s managed pubs enjoyed an excellent
year, with strong proﬁt growth being achieved
despite a reduction in the number of units
operated. Growth came from the successful
repositioning of a number of specialist pubs to
appeal to a broader consumer base, increased
focus on food and value for money, and
an impressive improvement in the rate of
conversion of sales to operating proﬁt. Food
business development has been a key theme
throughout the estate; overall, Belhaven’s food
revenue has increased by more than 50% over
the last two years.
Belhaven’s drinks business grew beer volume
and proﬁt in an on-trade market down 6%.
Net new business in free trade drove the
growth, and margins held up despite the
intensity of competition for market share.
Belhaven Best volume was up 4.6%, representing
another substantial increase in market share.
As planned, Stuart Ross is due to retire this
autumn, having led Belhaven for nearly 20 years.
Since he joined the Greene King top team at
the time of the acquisition, the whole business
has beneﬁted extensively from his experience
and exceptional talent. On a personal level,
I would like to extend my sincere thanks to
Stuart for his commitment and support, and for
his professional execution of the integration and
ongoing development of the Belhaven business.
The results achieved in Scotland this year
make a ﬁtting valediction. Stuart’s commitment
and work rate have been as strong in this,
his retirement year, as in any other year.
The process to ﬁnd a replacement to lead
Belhaven through its next stage of development
is well under way, and I am delighted that
Stuart has accepted my invitation to stay on
with Belhaven in an advisory capacity. Stuart
has always placed great emphasis on putting in
place a strong team around him; the Belhaven
team will, I am sure, maintain the momentum
of the last couple of years into the future.
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Revenue £116.4m £126.1m +8% +6%
Operating proﬁt £23.3m £27.5m +18% +16%
Operating
proﬁt margin 20.0% 21.8% +1.8%pts +1.8%pts 14
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Business review
Brewing Company enjoyed a strong
ﬁrst half but had a more difﬁcult
second half. Our own brands
performed strongly, and especially
so in the take-home market.
However, sales of third-party lager
and other drinks sales declined year
on year in an increasingly challenging
on-trade market, which in turn led
to under-recovery of our ﬁxed costs.
Nevertheless, the operating proﬁt
margin, at 24.4%, remains
sector-leading.
Own-brewed volume was up 6% on the prior
year, with Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen
and Abbot Ale growing 4%, 9% and 12%
respectively. Despite the UK beer market
declining by 5%, we grew both our share and
our absolute volume. In the on-trade, Greene
King IPA remains Britain’s number one cask ale
brand, and Greene King is the largest brewer in
both standard and premium cask ale categories.
We are also market leader in premium ale in
supermarkets, where in the year, Old Speckled
Hen grew its volume by 28% and its share
of the category by two full percentage points
to 11.9%, according to AC Nielsen data.
Beneﬁting from a single brewery, we run
a lean brewing and distribution operation,
which enables us to achieve our strong
margins and return on capital employed.
About half of Brewing Company’s sales are
“factored” product, meaning lager, wine, spirits
and soft drinks produced by other companies
that we sell to the on-trade, to offer a full
range for our customers. We were affected
this year by the overall decline in the on-trade
lager market, and we also withdrew from
a number of unsustainable wholesaler
relationships. In common with others we also
had to absorb major cost increases for energy
and raw materials. We believe that some of
these changes, especially the decline in lager
volume, are structural rather than temporary.
Accordingly, we have been rationalising our
ﬁxed cost base throughout the year and have
announced further changes since the year end.
In August we will close one of our distribution
depots, outsource deliveries to outlying areas
to a third party, bring certain other deliveries
back in house and improve working practices.
Together, these actions will result in savings
of around £0.5m in 2008/09 and around
£1m per annum thereafter.
Greene King remains committed to long-term
investment in its brands. A major new
advertising campaign has just been launched
for Old Speckled Hen and in the year under
review, we ran a highly successful £2m multi-
media campaign for Greene King IPA including
TV, press and outdoor advertising. Greene King
IPA is the ofﬁcial beer of England Rugby and, to
underline our relationship with rugby, we have
signed Lawrence Dallaglio as an “ambassador”
for the brand in a new two-year deal.
Brewing
Company
+4%
growth
+9%
growth
+12%
growth
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Revenue £91.1m £88.5m -3% -5%
Operating proﬁt £23.0m £21.6m -6% -8%
Operating
proﬁt margin 25.2% 24.4% -0.8%pts -0.8%pts Brewing Company brews Greene King IPA, the number 1 cask ale in England, which is also the Ofﬁcial Beer
of England Rugby. As well as promotional activity in the on and off-trade to drive awareness and sales, we
also operate a bar, the Rose and Crown at Twickenham, on England match days.
Brewing Company
“The sponsorship of England Rugby is an incredibly important
part of our plans, allowing us the opportunity to reach millions
of rugby fans across the country. There is a clear and natural
afﬁnity between the sport of rugby, its fans and cask ale drinking,
which is why we invest at all levels of the game – from high
proﬁle celebrities such as Lawrence Dallaglio to investment
in grassroots development at community club level.”
Keith Ironside
Greene King IPA brand manager
15
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 The Exchange Bar and Grill in Shefﬁeld is the ﬁrst former Greene King pub to be converted to a Loch Fyne
Restaurant. A complete refurbishment was undertaken in December, transforming an uninspiring pub into
an open and airy Loch Fyne Restaurant by opening up the kitchen, reducing the bar area and increasing
the external seating area. Since opening, the restaurant has been one of the best performing Loch Fyne sites.
Loch Fyne
“As a participant in Loch Fyne’s
Employee into Management training
programme, it’s great to work in a new
restaurant like this, especially as we are
so busy. I am already qualiﬁed to train
other staff on new openings, and would
hope to become a general manager
within the next few years.”
Simon James Hoey
Waiter
16
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 Chief executive’s review
17
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Business review
Acquisitions and disposals
On 7 August we acquired Loch Fyne
Restaurants for a ﬁnal consideration, including
net debt, of £64.2m, ﬁnanced from existing
debt facilities. Loch Fyne brings an important
new dimension to Greene King: its strong
position in premium casual dining complements
our pre-existing expertise in mid-market food-
led pubs. We have begun conversion of a
number of Greene King sites to the Loch Fyne
format. Trading at Loch Fyne for the year was
encouraging and like-for-like sales were up.
I am delighted that Mark Derry and his senior
team at Loch Fyne have agreed to continue
to manage the business’s growth. They and
all their employees are most welcome new
members of the Greene King team.
On 13 November, we acquired New Century
Inns for a total consideration, including net debt,
of £32.8m, also ﬁnanced from existing debt
facilities. These 49 high-quality tenanted and
leased pubs (all but one freehold), complement
our existing estate and strengthen our position
in the north and northeast. A programme
of improvements is under way, capture of
synergies is on track and trading in the estate
has been in line with our expectations.
We continually review our portfolio to identify
sites for disposal, namely those of lower quality,
limited potential or with a high alternative-use
value. In 2007/08, we disposed of 26 sites,
realising an exceptional proﬁt of £9.8m and
releasing cash of £41.4m to invest in higher-
potential sites and/or to acquire new sites
for the portfolio.
Real Estate Investment Trust
We stated our commitment to releasing
property value in our preliminary results
statement for 2006/07. Since then, we have
consulted with HM Revenue & Customs as to
the feasibility of a Real Estate Investment Trust
(REIT) for Greene King. They have indicated
that Greene King could in principle convert to
a REIT without de-merging the company. This
removes one key obstacle, but we still need to
be convinced that a REIT structure for Greene
King will deliver real long-term economic
value. We are also reviewing the operational
implications for the business. We will provide
an update at our interim results in December.
Current trading and outlook
Despite the difﬁcult economic conditions
our businesses are trading in line with our
expectations. In the ﬁrst eight weeks of the
new ﬁnancial year, Retail like-for-like sales
were 2.8% below last year, though we are
still seeing food and accommodation growth.
Like-for-like proﬁts in Pub Partners are level
with last year’s. Brewing Company’s own-
brewed volume is down by 2%, which we
believe to be ahead of the market. Belhaven
has maintained its strong performance into the
new ﬁnancial year, with retail like-for-like sales
up strongly again. Cost pressures continue
but we believe our margin and cash focus
will allow us to minimise the impact of these
pressures in the new ﬁnancial year. We are
better placed than many others due to the
resilience and ﬂexibility of our business, and
as a result we remain conﬁdent of meeting
our expectations for the year.
Rooney Anand
Chief Executive
2 July 2008
