 4
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chairman’s statement
Overview
Results
I am delighted that we have managed to
extend an unbroken run in earnings growth
that stretches back over 40 years. A strong
increase in operating proﬁt, up by 8% over
2006/07 to £236.2m, combined with effective
balance sheet management, has driven our
proﬁt before tax and exceptional items up
by 2% to £142.0m and our earnings per share
up by 14% to 74.0p.
Dividend
The results have led the board to recommend
a ﬁnal dividend payment of 18.7p which will
produce a total dividend of 26.0p for the year,
an increase of 14% on last year. If approved,
the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 8 September
to those shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 8 August.
Acquisitions and disposals
The company has been transformed in the last
two decades into a signiﬁcant national player
in the British eating and drinking out market.
We have added acquisitions to organic
growth to extend our product offer and our
geographical spread, and have made asset
disposals to improve the average quality
of our estate.
This year we acquired Loch Fyne Restaurants
in August 2007 for £64.2m. They had 36
outlets at the time, and now have 41, and
the acquisition marks an important further
step forward in the development of our
food retailing. We also acquired New
Century Inns for £32.8m in November 2007.
They had 49 tenanted and leased pubs mostly
located in the north east, and have brought
us much better representation in that part
of the country.
Board
Howard Phillips will be retiring at our AGM
in September. He has served as a non-executive
director for ten years and I would like to thank
him for the experience and good sense he has
brought to the board over that time.
People
These results are particularly encouraging in
view of the tough trading environment in which
we ﬁnd ourselves. They have been achieved
through the dedication, passion and enthusiasm
of our employees and our partners in the
licensed trade. I would like to express my
thanks to all of you for the part you have
played in producing such a strong set of ﬁgures.
I also welcome those who have joined us
through our acquisitions, bringing fresh ideas
and valuable experience to our business.
For all of us, the crucial attributes of hard work
and skill will be all the more important in the
difﬁcult times ahead and I am conﬁdent that
we have a great team to handle that challenge.
Tim Bridge
Chairman
2 July 2008
