 4
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chairman’s statement
People
For our many long-standing employees and
licensees, this year will have been as tough
as any of us can remember. However, they,
and the many talented and hard-working
people who have joined the company in
recent years, should be proud of what has
been achieved. The pressures have been
intense at times, but we continue to see
positive thinking, tenacity and hard work
throughout the business.
Our strong reputation and continuing success
are entirely dependent on everyone’s efforts
and I would like to express my sincere thanks
to you all for your personal contribution.
Looking ahead, conditions are likely to remain
challenging, but I am conﬁdent that the team
at Greene King will continue to drive the
business forward.
Tim Bridge
Chairman
1 July 2009
* As throughout, profit figures are shown before
exceptional items.
** As throughout, 2007/08 rebased to 52 weeks
for comparative purposes.
ahead of last year. The ﬁnal dividend will
be paid on 14 September 2009 to those
shareholders on the register at the close
of business on 14 August 2009.
Dividend policy
Looking ahead, the board expects to pursue a
dividend policy which targets a dividend cover
of around two times underlying earnings.
At this level, we believe we can maintain
a balance between the cash requirement
of the business to invest capital in our assets
and pay down borrowings, and the need
to ensure that shareholders will beneﬁt from
our strong cash ﬂow and successful growth.
Acquisitions and disposals
We did not make any acquisitions during
the ﬁnancial year, but have announced an
acquisition since the year end, having reached
an agreement to purchase 11 high-quality,
freehold managed pubs from Punch Taverns
for a total consideration of £30.4m. The deal
was completed on 1 July 2009.
Despite a difﬁcult property market in the
last 12 months, we have improved the
average quality of our estate by successfully
disposing of 128 of our non-core assets
for £44.2m, realising a net proﬁt of £3.7m
against book value.
Rights issue
On 23 April we announced a three-for-ﬁve
rights issue to raise net proceeds of £207.5m,
which will allow us to repurchase some of
our securitised debt at signiﬁcantly below
par value and to make selective acquisitions
of freehold retail pubs. The rights issue was
completed successfully on 29 May 2009
when dealing in the new shares began.
Dividend
Although earnings were lower than last year,
our ability to convert proﬁt into cash and to
manage our balance sheet tightly has allowed
the board to recommend a ﬁnal dividend
payment of 15.1p per share, being the
equivalent of 18.7p per share before adjusting
for the rights issue. This, and the adjusted
total dividend of 22.4p per share, is marginally
I am pleased to report that, in very demanding trading conditions, we have once more delivered
resilient results. This year was tougher than last, yet we managed to grow our revenue by 1.3%**
to £954.6m. Faced with signiﬁcant margin pressures, we generated operating proﬁt of £216.2m*,
which was 6.7% below last year. Our proﬁt before tax was £118.5m, down 15.0% on last year,
but ahead of the £115.0m proﬁt forecast at the time of the rights issue. We delivered earnings
per share, before exceptional items, of 66.5p, 8.4% below last year.
