 6
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
In addition, our successful rights issue, which
completed after the year end, will further
strengthen our competitive and ﬁnancial
position. We raised £207.5m to selectively
acquire freehold, managed pubs and
opportunistically pay down our securitised
debt at below par values. Already we have
moved forward in both aims, buying back
£22.4m of our securitised bonds at 51%
of their nominal value and acquiring 11 high-
quality, freehold, managed pubs from Punch
Taverns for £30.4m. We expect to make
further progress during the next 12 months.
Current trading
Recent trading, particularly in Retail and
Brewing in both England and Scotland,
has been strong. In Retail, not only have
our invested food-led businesses continued
to perform well, but our wet-led businesses
have also been stronger. The beneﬁt
of the realignment and adaptation of these
businesses continues to come through,
supported by the recent warmer and drier
weather. After eight weeks of the new year
to 28 June, like-for-like sales in Greene King
Retail are +5.2% and like-for-like sales in
Belhaven Retail are +10.2%.
Momentum in our brewing businesses has
also been sustained. Own-brewed volumes
in Brewing Company remain well ahead
of the market at +12.1%, helped by the
renewed success of Ruddles in the on-trade
and the better weather, whilst Belhaven Best
volumes in the year-to-date are +9.0%.
Pub Partners’ trends have stabilised and
remain in line with the underlying
performance from the second half of 2008/09.
The actions we have taken to support our
licensees are beginning to take effect and
we have seen a better volume performance
in the past ﬁve weeks.
In each of our divisions the operating focus
is on achieving proﬁtable sales growth and
growing market share. This is achieved by
three main elements; ﬁrstly, providing value
for money offers for customers supported
by industry-leading service and standards;
secondly, consistently raising the quality
and performance bar of employees, licensee
partners and suppliers; and thirdly, rigorously
controlling costs to preserve cash and help
fund internal investment.
We believe we are in a stronger position
now than we were two years ago, when
the initial warning signs of an impending
slowdown appeared at the front line of our
businesses. The sector is polarising with the
weaker players underperforming and reducing
investment, whilst the stronger players
have healthier proﬁts and cash conversion,
are maintaining investment, accelerating
market share gains and selectively targeting
acquisitions. Within the overall strategy
framework, in order to strengthen our
position as one of the stronger players,
we have continued to realign our businesses.
During the past ﬁnancial year we have:
 Reduced our net debt by £46.9m.
 Further repositioned our Retail operations
toward growth categories such as food,
wine and coffee.
 Continued the repositioning and
adaptation of the Pub Partners
business model.
 Reduced Brewing Company’s ﬁxed cost
base whilst maintaining sector-leading
brand investment.
 Grown food sales in Belhaven Retail
to 25% of total sales.
Our consistent and long-term strategy has
stood Greene King in good stead through
both prosperous times and recessionary
periods. The primary objective of our strategy
is to create shareholder value by delivering
organic growth across our divisions,
augmented by value accretive investment
in our core brand and property assets,
a selective acquisition strategy and the
disposal of non-core assets.
The execution of the strategy is driven by
a number of key elements of the business
model including:
 A commitment to both managed and
tenanted pubs supported by a leadership
position in brewing.
 A high quality, freehold asset base.
 A focus on generating proﬁtable
sales growth for cash generation
and brand stability.
 A broad geographic spread but with
a primary focus on the prosperous
South East and resilient Scotland.
 Decentralised business units and ﬂat
management structure to stay close
to our customers.
These results represent a resilient performance by Greene King in what has proved to be one
of the toughest trading periods for many years. For the 52 weeks to 3 May 2009, revenue was
£954.6m, 1.3%** ahead of last year, operating proﬁt was £216.2m*, down 6.7% against last
year and proﬁt before tax was £118.5m, 15.0% below last year. Adjusted earnings per share
were down 8.4% at 66.5p. The board has declared a ﬁnal dividend of 15.1p per share, marginally
ahead of last year, being the equivalent of 18.7p per share before adjusting for the rights issue.
* As throughout, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
** As throughout, 2007/08 rebased to 52 weeks for comparative purposes. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
7
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Locals
Events are playing an
increasingly important role
for our Local Pubs with
promotions offering value
for money on food and
drink for occasions such
as Valentine’s Day and
Christmas as well as key
sporting events. The recent
Father’s Day promotion
proved a great hit with
regulars at the Lady Bay
in Nottingham. 8
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Destinations
Our popular Hungry Horse family pubs, such as the Four Seasons
in Laindon, Essex, have seen a rise in the numbers of meals sold during
the year, driven by menus offering even greater value than ever. Last year
we continued to invest in the brand with 28 major refurbishments aimed
at appealing to families of all ages with attractions for youngsters such as
play zones and fun days and for adults with sports events, entertainment
and curry nights. Retail
Greene King Retail achieved sales of £569.5m in the year, 0.3% above last year despite trading
in 3% less sites. Operating proﬁt of £105.6m was down 7.6%. After an improved second half,
total like-for-like sales were +1.7%, driven by both liquor and food growth, including strong
performances from strategically important categories such as cask ale, wine, coffee and soft
drinks. Food is now 35% of total Retail sales. Hungry Horse, following its repositioning and
upweighted investment programme throughout the past 18 months, achieved like-for-like sales
growth of 8.1%. The underlying pub operating margin, excluding the impact of the mainly
leasehold Loch Fyne Restaurants, was just 1.2 percentage points down on last year, despite
the ongoing machine income decline, fewer sites and above inﬂationary cost increases.
Chief executive’s review
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
9
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Estate numbers
We began the ﬁnancial year with 792
Retail sites. Four new Loch Fyne sites were
acquired, 18 pubs were sold and a net six
transferred to Pub Partners. The closing
balance was 772 sites, segmented as follows:
As always, we have managed our costs very
tightly. Investing in value for the customer
has not been at the expense of gross margins,
due to improved liquor and food yields and
further menu engineering. Our pub operating
margins, due to a number of factors, remain
industry-leading: wage efﬁciencies have
improved with the total wage cost falling; and
we have increased our use of “smart meters”
across the estate to drive outlet electricity
usage down 7% this year, partially offsetting
much higher rates.
Raising the calibre of our people has been a
further focus for the year. We have improved
the quality of our operations teams at area and
outlet level, taking advantage of our strong
appeal in a weaker employment market. We
have also stepped up our training programmes
across each of the three businesses within
Retail, concentrating on improving the
internal talent pool. Almost 40% of new
House Manager appointments came through
our Rising Star training programmes.
Unlike much of the pub and restaurant
sector, we have maintained a signiﬁcant
level of investment in our Retail business.
During the period, we invested £24.6m of
expansionary capital, a further £25.1m was
invested in maintaining our pubs and £8.1m
was spent on repairs from the revenue
account. The focus on Hungry Horse has
continued, where we have invested c. £10.0m
across 33 developments in the year, whilst we
also completed a “sparkle programme” across
20 pubs in the Locals estate. We converted
ﬁve Greene King sites to Loch Fyne in the
year and opened four other new sites.
Enhanced value-for-money across liquor and
food has been the main driver of Retail’s sales
performance. At Hungry Horse, a fall of 9%
in the average price of a main meal over
the year drove covers up 14%, whilst the
introduction of two meals for £9.95 in Inns
turned cover decline into cover growth in the
second half of the year. In Loch Fyne, we have
steered clear of the two-for-one offers that
are common place in the restaurant sector,
but have broadened our ﬁxed-price menu
offer and introduced regional pricing. Our
Local Savers value initiative now covers 77
pubs within the Local Pubs estate. At the end
of the ﬁrst quarter, when we launched Local
Savers, we reduced liquor prices on a number
of key lines in these pubs by 13%, which
led to a subsequent 12 percentage points
improvement in like-for-like sales for the
rest of the year. All main meals on the Local
Savers menu are now at £3.50 or below.
Value is not just about price. We have further
improved our customer offers, we continue
to invest in our sites, we are recruiting better
quality employees and we are improving
standards and customer service across the
business. For example, our “Beds, Baths,
Breakfasts” investment in Inns has driven
market outperformance with REVPAR up
1.5% in the year. All our Retail businesses
take part in Mystery Guest programmes and
scores have consistently improved during
the year and are benchmarking well against
competitors. Sport and other big events have
also increased in importance as part of our
value offer to our customers, with signiﬁcant
uplifts on key dates through well targeted
and communicated activities.
52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Average number of sites trading 801 779 -2.7%
Revenue £567.7m £569.5m +0.3%
EBITDA £145.1m £139.8m -3.6%
Operating proﬁt £114.3m £105.6m -7.6%
Operating proﬁt margin 20.1% 18.5% -1.6%pts
Outlets trading
Outlets at on average
year end during period
Destination Pubs 275 266
Local Pubs 449 468
Loch Fyne Restaurants 48 45
Total 772 779 Pub Partners
Revenue at Pub Partners, our tenancy/lease division in England and Wales, was down 5.4%
at £155.2m, with operating proﬁt down 11.3% to £70.9m. Operating margins were 45.7%.
During the period, a total of £7.0m was invested across the Pub Partners estate, an additional
£6.3m went on maintenance capex and £3.3m on repairs from the revenue account. An average
of 1,445 sites traded over the period. At the start of the ﬁnancial year, 1,474 pubs were trading,
three were added from acquisitions, while 92 were sold or closed and a net six were transferred
in from the Retail division. The closing balance was therefore 1,391 pubs.
10
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
As a result of the various initiatives and
investment we and our licensees have been
making, the vital signs of licensee health have
remained stable through the year. At the
year end, we only had 30 pubs closed for
reopening, just 2% of the entire estate,
there were 272 licensees on cash-with-order
against 245 at the end of last year and 137
temporary agreements against 131 last year.
We are monitoring developments following
the recent Business & Enterprise Committee
report. We have been successfully operating
a tie for over 200 years with short-term
tenancies currently representing 78% of our
agreements and long-term leases representing
just 22%. Tenancies offer the lowest cost
entry route into the pub industry for potential
licensees and the model ensures we share in
the upside and the downside of an economic
cycle with our licensees. We were the ﬁrst
to introduce a Code of Practice in 1998 and
it has been continuously evolving since then.
Going forward, our business model will
continue to adapt in order to ensure
Greene King remains appealing and fair
to both prospective and existing licensees,
whilst delivering attractive returns to
our shareholders.
existing licensees: 137 training courses were
held in the year, including 37 “Go for Growth”
induction courses. These helped to improve
ﬁrst year licensee retention rates up to 88%.
Finally, we launched a specialist tenant trainer
programme and we now have 20 licensee
trainers providing “on the job” training to
new licensees.
However, for some of our licensees, this
support has not been sufﬁcient to offset the
unprecedented pressures they have faced.
For these, we have provided over £4m of
additional ﬁnancial support during the year,
via rent concessions and product discounts.
This additional support is not given on the
basis of “charity”, but is conditional on our
licensees changing elements of their business
to increase their consumer appeal. This
support includes “Crunch Time”, an initiative
to ensure many of our licensees can compete
more effectively in the current environment,
guaranteeing licensees gross margins on
leading products at competitive prices.
120 pubs were fully operational on “Crunch
Time” by the year end, a further 80 have
signed up since then and the resulting
volume performance of these sites is very
encouraging so far. We have also introduced
the Pelican Buying Company to our licensees,
allowing them to beneﬁt, in terms of supplier
accessibility and cost savings, from its
economies of scale, and we have upgraded
our food and marketing support to licensees
by further utilising our Retail infrastructure.
In recognition of the pressures our licensees
are facing in the current environment,
we have been repositioning and adapting the
Pub Partners business model to make it more
pragmatic and more agile. In the ﬁrst half
of the year, we split the business into two:
in the Core estate we reduced the size of each
area to 44 pubs per Business Development
Manager (BDM) to get closer to our licensees
and to ﬁnd mutually beneﬁcial solutions
more quickly; and in the Independence Pub
Company, the ﬂexibility of our agreements
is industry-leading. By the year end, we had
12 totally Free of Tie agreements and 46
partially tied agreements, putting Pub Partners
ﬁrmly in the vanguard of industry business
model evolution. During the second half of
the year, we also took a prudent view of
both inventory values and potential bad debts
within the tail-end of the Pub Partners estate,
resulting in a P&L charge of £1.9m. Excluding
this and investment to strengthen the model,
underlying EBITDA per pub was -6.7%.
The most important element of the
tenanted/leased model is licensee quality.
During the year we received 1,241 applications
for our pubs and let 331 pubs, and at the year
end there were 495 fully vetted applicants on
our database. Our recruitment campaigns are
increasingly innovative. Both our Civvy Street
and Public Housewives campaigns are proving
successful, with the ﬁrst licensee recruits
starting to run their pubs. We continue to
offer industry-leading training to new and
52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Average number of pubs trading 1,443 1,445 NC
Revenue £164.0m £155.2m -5.4%
EBITDA £86.5m £78.1m -9.7%
Operating proﬁt £79.9m £70.9m -11.3%
Operating proﬁt margin 48.7% 45.7% -3.0%pts Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
11
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Pub
Partners
During the year, we provided
over £4 million of additional
ﬁnancial support to our tenants
in the form of rent concessions
and product discounts. As
part of this package of support,
Pub Partners launched a
major value for money drinks
promotion entitled “Crunch
Time” which offers top brands
at value prices. The Victory,
in Walton-on-the-Naze, is
one of over 200 pubs across
the UK now beneﬁting from
the promotion. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Belhaven
Food has become an increasingly important part of the Belhaven offer
where sales rose 49% last year. The seven pubs redeveloped into Eating
Inns, such as the SpringKerse View in Stirling, with its new décor, waitress
service and great menu offering plenty of value, lead the way with sales
almost doubling after refurbishment. 52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Revenue £123.7m £136.0m +9.9%
EBITDA £31.1m £34.9m +12.2%
Operating proﬁt £27.0m £30.2m +11.9%
Operating proﬁt margin 21.8% 22.2% +0.4%pts
Belhaven
Belhaven revenues grew 9.9% to £6.0m in the year and Belhaven achieved a record operating
proﬁt of £0.m, growth of .9% with increased contributions from all three divisions.
Even though there were signiﬁcant cost pressures in the year, very tight cost control in all
businesses helped deliver an operating margin of .%, up 0.4 percentage points. The number
of pubs trading grew from  to 5 and on average  pubs were trading during the period.
Despite the demanding conditions and senior management change in the year, the Belhaven team
has yet again performed very strongly. However, we remain cautious on the outlook, mainly due
to the risk to Scottish public sector employment levels as we move into 00.
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
Yet again Belhaven Best, Scotland’s leading
ale brand with a 21.5%* share of the
Scottish on-trade ale market, outperformed
that market. In an ale market down 9.0%*,
Belhaven Best grew its volumes in the year,
supported by a return to TV advertising in
the ﬁnal quarter. Industry-leading customer
service levels and an attractive brand
portfolio combined to help our highly
motivated and successful free trade team
win further market share through growing
their free trade account base without
sacriﬁcing margin; in the year, trading proﬁt
per barrel grew 1.2%.
* AC Nielsen, Volume MAT to March 2009.
Belhaven’s retail operations went from
strength to strength during the year. By the
year end, like-for-like sales were up 5.4%,
driven by food like-for-like sales growth of
16.0% and liquor like-for-like sales growth of
2.6%. Total food revenues were up 49% and
food is now 25% of total revenues, up from
15% just two years ago. The seven pubs
redeveloped as Eating Inns contributed much
of the growth, with average weekly sales
growth almost doubling post refurbishment.
The average return on investment on these
pubs is 25%. The rest of the estate achieved
like-for-like sales growth of 3.3%, driven by
the repositioning of four high street venue
sites into more food-led offers, growing
post-refurbishment sales 48%.
Whilst conditions for our licensee partners in
Scotland remain challenging, we have further
increased our support to them, including
towards the end of the year reducing the
already unrivalled 40 pubs for each BDM
to 36. This ensures we maintain very close
relationships with our licensees leading to
stronger licensee performance and lower
potential risk. At year end, we only had six
closed pubs and 20 temporary agreements,
in line with the position at the start of the
year. Tenanted operating proﬁt rose 12.1%
in the year, driven by a 7% increase in the
number of pubs, like-for-like rental income
growth and improved gross margins. 52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Revenue £86.8m £93.9m +8.2%
EBITDA £25.1m £25.4m +1.2%
Operating proﬁt £21.2m £21.2m NC
Operating proﬁt margin 24.4% 22.6% -1.8%pts
Brewing Company
A stronger second half for Brewing Company drove own-brewed volume growth of .8% in the
year. This led to signiﬁcant market share gains in a UK ale market down 5.6%**. Revenues grew
8.% to £9.9m, whilst operating proﬁt was unchanged at £.m. The margin decline in the
year of .8 percentage points is mainly a technical issue driven by a decline in internal volumes,
which have no associated revenue, but do contribute to Brewing Company trading proﬁt.
However, with a £.5m increase in fuel, energy and raw materials, we were pleased with
second half margins being held to within 80bps of last year.
4
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
No.1 premium ale in the off-trade with a
13.3%*** volume share of the premium ale
market in multiple grocers. In the year we also
launched Old Crafty Hen and both brands
won gold medals at the recent international
Monde awards. Just after the year end, Old
Speckled Hen began sponsoring Prime Time
TV on the Dave channel.
We have continued to both remove cost
and switch from ﬁxed to variable cost to
improve efﬁciency. During the year we
outsourced our Totton and Crayford depots
to Tradeteam. Not only does this make
our business model even more efﬁcient,
but increased delivery frequencies should
improve customer service levels and lower
HGV mileage and CO
2
emissions which
will help protect the environment.
* AC Nielsen On-Trade MAT to March 2009.
** BBPA MAT to April 2009.
*** AC Nielsen Off-Trade MAT to April 2009.
Brewing Company’s continued
outperformance is driven by a consistent,
focused strategy: most importantly, we brew
high quality beer from an efﬁcient, single-site
brewery; we have a focused brand portfolio,
minimising the complexity and cost of a multi-
brand strategy; we invest more than any other
cask ale brewer; we rigorously attack costs at
all levels of the business; we recruit and retain
the best people in the market; and we retain
a passionate focus on our customers.
Greene King IPA remains the UK’s No.1
cask ale with a 20.5%* volume share of the
standard cask ale market and the fastest rate
of sale of all brands with over 5%* distribution.
During the year, we upgraded our livery and
branding to reﬂect the Suffolk heritage of
the brand, we further leveraged our England
Rugby sponsorship through Lawrence
Dallaglio’s role as brand ambassador and
we began the roll out of the innovative Cask
Revolution font. Old Speckled Hen is the Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
5
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Brewing
Company
Greene King IPA was
rebranded this year to
reﬂect the proud Suffolk
heritage of the UK’s No1
cask ale. This year also saw
the launch of our new
Revolution font – the ﬁrst
major innovation in cask
dispense for over 200 years.
Revolution offers drinkers
a choice of pours – “clean
and crisp” (looser bubbles
and softer froth), or “smooth
and creamy” (a tighter head
that holds until the end
of the pint). 6
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Loch Fyne
The focus for Loch Fyne has been to continue to invest in the expansion
of the brand and on broadening its customer base with popular set price
menus and a wider range on offer. Aimed at attracting the younger diner,
the Loch Fyne in Oxford’s vibrant Jericho district is the ﬁrst Loch Fyne
Bar and Grill. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
Outlook
I am encouraged by our performance,
both last year and through the ﬁrst few
weeks of this year, in what are demanding
circumstances. We have strengthened our
position within the sector through our
resilience, the ongoing realignment of our
businesses and, post the year-end, our
successful rights issue. Our balance sheet
is in good shape, our cash ﬂows are healthy
and our proﬁt conversion is strong. We are
unique amongst the major companies within
our sector in paying down debt, continuing
to invest in our business and maintaining
dividends to shareholders. Greene King’s
reputation within the industry ensures our
team remains highly motivated to succeed
and we continue to attract high calibre
people from both within and outside the
industry. The future remains uncertain,
but I believe we will continue to grow
our market share and outperform our
competitors, further strengthening our
leadership position.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
1 July 2009
