 06
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
CHIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEW
Greene King has delivered another strong 
performance. For the 52 weeks to 2 May 2010, 
we achieved record revenues of £984.1m, up 
3.1% on last year, despite the difficult trading 
environment. Operating profit* of £211.3m was 
2.3% below last year but profit before tax* was 
3.8% up on last year at £123.0m. Adjusted 
earnings per share was down 18.7% at 43.4p, 
due primarily to the higher number of shares 
following the rights issue. The board has 
recommended a final dividend of 15.6p per 
share, 3.3% ahead of last year. 
market and business overview
Our performance was delivered in another year 
of challenging market conditions. Although the 
UK consumer was better off than in the previous 
year following various government stimuli, bank 
lending remained low and the savings ratio grew. 
In addition, we had a tough winter, duty and VAT 
rises and the increasing consumer uncertainty 
over the election. The overall eating out market 
remained subdued and on-trade beer volumes 
again fell. 
Within this environment there were excellent 
achievements in all of our businesses; we delivered 
record revenues close to £1bn, strong Retail 
like-for-like-sales growth, second half profit 
per pub growth in Pub Partners, own-brewed 
volume growth and another record profit from 
Belhaven. We successfully balanced our revenue 
growth with effective cost mitigation and margin 
management to protect our margins and we 
generated sufficient cash to reduce our debt, pay 
an attractive dividend and increase our targeted 
investment in our assets, brands and people. 
We are operationally focused on delivering 
outstanding value, exceptional service and 
unbeatable quality throughout Greene King. 
We have consciously enhanced the value 
proposition to our customers over the last two 
years and while the UK consumer continues to 
demand exceptional value, we will deliver it, at 
the same time maintaining our commitment to 
generating healthy cash margins. 
Strategy update
Greene King has been providing its customers 
with authentic pub and beer experiences for 
over 200 years and central to this longevity is 
our ability to develop our business to reflect 
changing consumer preferences and economic 
conditions. This has been particularly true in the 
last three years as we successfully adapted to the 
challenges of the smoking ban, the banking crisis 
and the recession. 
We have a strong business which has been 
augmented in the last two years by two significant 
initiatives. Firstly, we have invested over £100m 
from our rights issue in high quality, freehold, 
retail outlet acquisitions from our competitors 
and below par debt buybacks. T o date, the 
average return on the capital invested in the 
acquisitions is 19.4%, as we use our operating 
expertise and brand strength to drive material 
uplifts in sales and profit. Secondly, we have 
continued investing in our estate, particularly 
in our leading pub restaurant brands, which has 
delivered exceptional returns in recent years. 
The success of these initiatives has enabled 
Greene King to emerge from the recession in a 
stronger position to take advantage of the further 
opportunities for growth and market share gains 
that exist. Whilst risks still remain, this success 
gives us confidence to accelerate the pace of 
change and growth at Greene King towards a 
more retail and branded focus.
Rooney Anand Chief executive
CONSISTENT FoCuS
Greene King has been providing its customers 
with authentic pub and beer experiences for over 
200 years and central to this longevity is our ability 
to develop our business to reflect changing consumer 
preferences and economic conditions.
Summary of chief executive’s review
Profit before tax* was 3.8% up on last year 
at £123.0m
We have invested over £100m from our 
rights issue in high quality, freehold, retail 
outlet acquisitions from our competitors 
and below par debt buybacks
We have continued investing in our estate, 
particularly in our leading pub restaurant 
brands, which has delivered exceptional 
returns in recent years 
Greene King Retail achieved record revenue of 
£589.2m, 3.5% above last year, and operating 
profit of £106.4m, up 0.8% on last year
Having made excellent progress, particularly 
in the last six months, we believe Pub Partners 
is now leading the sector on performance 
and stability
Belhaven again delivered a record result. 
Revenue was up 11.7% to £151.9m with 
operating profit up 8.3% to £32.7m
Brewing Company has once again strongly 
outperformed the UK ale market over the 
last 12 months. Our own-brewed ale brands 
achieved volume growth of 3.6% against a 
market down 6.3%
*  
As throughout this document, profit figures are shown 
before exceptional items.
  07
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
Business Review
The main elements of our strategy over the next 
three to five years are:
1. Expand branded retail
Drive growth through expanding our branded, 
food-led, retail estate. We are targeting 1,100 
outlets, from our current base of 888, through a 
combination of acquisitions and internal transfers 
from tenancy. We see opportunities for growth 
in our destination pubs and restaurants, pubs 
with rooms and traditional suburban pubs.
2. Improve quality and reduce size of 
tenanted estate
Generate sustainable and improved rates 
of cash returns from a higher quality, more 
customer focused, tenanted estate. As part of 
this process, we will reduce the estate from our 
current base of 1,584 outlets to c. 1,200 through 
a combination of disposals and transfers to retail. 
We will further leverage our purchasing scale and 
retail infrastructure to deliver higher returns for 
our licensees and our shareholders. 
3. Increase core beer brand investment
Deliver continued profitable growth in our 
branded beer business through additional 
investment in Greene King IPA, the UK’s leading 
cask ale, Old Speckled Hen, the UK’s leading 
premium ale and Belhaven Best, Scotland’s 
leading ale brand.
Overall, our aim is to be the best pub and 
beer business in Britain and we believe this retail 
expansion and brand investment strategy will help 
us achieve that over the next three to five years. 
It will generate faster, profitable sales growth, 
supported by enhanced purchasing and operating 
synergies, to deliver a step change in our focus on 
retail and increase our exposure to the long-term 
growth of the eating out market. This acceleration 
in our retail expansion will be financed through 
our existing funding headroom, the remaining 
rights issue proceeds and the accelerated tenanted 
disposal programme. We will continue to generate 
strong trading cash flows to maintain our ongoing 
investment requirements, meet our debt obligations 
and pay dividends to shareholders. 
Our focus in Retail is about 
delivering outstanding value, 
exceptional service and 
unbeatable quality across 
the different segments of our 
business – an approach that 
enables us to consistently 
deliver a compelling customer 
offer , whilst ensuring local fit. 
Our recent success 
gives us confidence 
to accelerate the pace 
of change and growth 
towards a more retail 
and branded focus. 08
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
CHIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEW
Greene King Retail
Greene King Retail achieved record revenue of 
£589.2m, 3.5% above last year, and operating 
profit of £106.4m, up 0.8% on last year . Like-for-like 
(LFL) sales were also strong at +3.5%. This was 
driven by the repositioning of the estate towards 
food, in which we achieved LFL sales growth of 
8.8%. As a result, food has grown a further 
200bps to 37% of sales. We also achieved full 
year growth in LFL drink sales and second half 
growth in machine income. Although operating 
margins fell 40bps in the year, due to mix and 
first half cost pressures, second half margins 
were in line with last year. A key element of our 
operational strategy in Retail is to reposition the 
business towards long-term growth categories 
and all of our target product categories achieved 
growth in the year. On a per pub basis, food sales 
were up 10%, wine sales were up 7%, soft drink 
sales were up 5% and coffee sales were up 2%. 
We direct the greatest share of our capital 
investment programme towards Retail as we 
focus on driving profitable sales growth via the 
expansion of our food-led pub restaurant brands. 
In the year, we invested £20.6m of expansionary 
capital, a further £24.4m was invested in maintaining 
our pubs and restaurants and £9.0m was spent 
on repairs from the revenue account. We invested 
£13.4m in 43 Hungry Horse outlets, taking the 
total number of Hungry Horse outlets to 147, 
and we invested over £2m in 12 Old English Inns 
outlets, as we step up the pace of our redevelopment 
programme. The Local Pubs ‘sparkle’ programme 
has now covered 160 outlets with an average 
investment of £49k per outlet. We have now 
invested in 54% of the Retail estate in the last 
three years, still leaving a significant opportunity 
for further investment and brand expansion. 
Our operational focus in Retail is on delivering 
outstanding value, exceptional service and unbeatable 
quality (VSQ) across the different segments of our 
business. Within both of our Retail divisions we have 
tailored our offer by brand or operating template. 
This approach enables us to consistently deliver 
a compelling customer offer, whilst ensuring local 
fit where necessary. 
Hungry Horse (147 outlets) 
Hungry Horse has had another exceptional year, 
in which the brand has grown from 119 outlets 
at the start of the year to 147 by the year-end. 
It has delivered LFL sales growth of 11.6% this 
year, following growth of 8.4% last year and the 
average weekly turnover (AWT) grew 7.7% to 
£18.3k. We have further improved our value 
offer this year, with ‘2 for £8’ meal deals in the 
week and a ‘2 for £10’ Sunday lunch deal. This 
has helped to drive cover growth of 28%. Food 
is now almost 50% of the sales mix. We have 
introduced new technology to ensure consistent 
15 minutes food service time, which has helped 
to push Hungry Horse mystery guest scores 
above 90% for the first time, and we have 
continued to innovate our food offer with new, 
quality dishes such as the ‘Hell’s Chicken Burger’. 
Old English Inns (101 outlets) 
Old English Inns (OEI) has also performed 
well this year. Following our investment in 
‘beds, breakfasts and bathrooms’ within our 
accommodation sites, the introduction of a ‘2 
for £9.95’ meal offer across the estate and the 
redesign and redevelopment of the brand, OEI 
has delivered strong LFL sales growth of 4.6%. 
T otal cover growth of 13.0% more than offset 
an 8.0% decline in average spend per head. 
We added further value to our meal offer by 
including starters and desserts and to our function 
ENHANCING vAlue
ReTAil
Our operational focus in Retail is on delivering 
outstanding value, exceptional service and 
unbeatable quality (v SQ) across the different 
segments of our business.
52 weeks  08/09 09/10 Change
Average number of sites trading  779 778 -0.1%
Revenue  £569.5m £589.2m +3.5%
EBITDA  £139.8m £141.9m +1.5%
Operating profit  £105.6m £106.4m +0.8%
Operating profit margin  18.5% 18.1% -0.4%pts
EBITDA per site  £179.5k £182.4k +1.6% Business Review
09
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
Value has become part of 
everyday life over the past 
two years and our Hungry 
Horse brand continues to 
delight by offering outstanding 
value in a family friendly 
environment. Last year we 
invested over £13m in 43 
Hungry Horse outlets taking 
the total number of these 
popular pubs to 147. 
room offer through our ‘Grand Wedding’ 
package, starting at £999. We improved service 
standards by introducing a ‘part-table service’ 
operational standard and we improved the 
quality of the specialist whisky and gin ranges. 
Loch Fyne Restaurants (44 outlets)
Midway through the first half of the year, 
we completed the integration of Loch Fyne 
Restaurants (LFR) into the Destination Division. 
LFR has performed in line with the UK restaurant 
sector this year with LFL covers down and spend 
per head up. In line with our other brands, we 
have selectively introduced additional value to 
our menu to drive cover growth at the planned 
expense of the average meal price, while ensuring 
we continue to deliver the high quality standards 
and service our customers expect from LFR.
Hardy’s House (37 outlets)
Hardy’s House is a suburban, destinational 
food-led brand, located predominantly in the 
Midlands and the north of England. As with our 
other destination pub brands, Hardy’s House 
grew its covers strongly, up 11.6%, with average 
spend per head in line with last year. Initiatives in 
the year included Fish and Chips ‘your way’, 
adding flexibility to the customer offer and free 
side dishes for customers who were not offered 
one when they ordered their meal, driving 
better service. 
Premium Locals (123 outlets)
Premium Locals achieved total sales growth 
of 9.0% in the year driven by LFL sales growth, 
a strong underlying performance in our London 
pubs and the acquisition of eight pubs from 
Punch T averns. LFL food sales grew 10.6% and 
food participation is now 27%. Food growth 
was due to both average cover growth of 5.7% 
and spend per head growth of 4.5% as we 
introduced better quality and targeted menus 
and incentivised employees on selling up starters, 
desserts and side orders. We improved our female 
appeal through a more attractive product range 
including Prosecco, sharing platters and our 
exclusive and award-winning wine list. 
Mainstream Locals (193 outlets)
Mainstream Locals achieved LFL food sales up 
and LFL drink sales down. Food participation is 
now 17.0%, up 1.5%pts on last year, and we 
grew both covers and spend per head in the year. 
Our Mainstream Locals segment benefits from its 
convenience to our customers with particularly 
strong community and high street locations. 
We introduced additional value through a food 
‘Rhythm of the Week’ offering daily meal deals 
and offering Carlsberg at £1.99 per pint during 
selected sports events and we completed a 
comprehensive upgrade of our television screens, 
both internally and externally, well ahead of the 
World Cup. 
value Locals (120 outlets)
During the year, we took the most successful 
elements of our Local Savers ‘Every Day Low 
Pricing’ promotion and extended them across 
the  whole Value Locals estate. For example, 
we introduced ‘known-value item’ pricing such 
as Carlsberg at £1.79 per pint, Ruddles at £1.59 
per pint and Blossom Hill at £5.99 per bottle. 
Machine income was much improved in the year, 
helped by the speed of our implementation and 
the quality of our merchandising around the £70 
jackpot introduction.
Visit the Retail division online
ww7.investorrelations.co.uk/greeneking/ 
greeneking0910/retail 10
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
CHIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEW
Pub Partners
On an estate with 5.1% fewer pubs, revenue 
was down 6.5% at £145.1m and operating profit 
was down 8.9% to £64.6m. Average EBITDA 
per pub was down 3.2% but, in the second half 
of the year, due to better volume trends, tighter 
controls and the impact of the non-core disposal 
programme, average EBITDA per pub was +0.2%. 
During the year, £8.7m was invested in the 
estate, the majority in the second half, of which 
£4.7m was maintenance capex and £4.0m was 
expansionary capex, including our investment 
in Brulines’ i-draught technology. An additional 
£2.0m was spent on repairs through the revenue 
account. An average of 1,372 sites traded over 
the period. At the start of the financial year, 
1,391 sites were trading, nine were transferred 
to Retail and 65 were sold, of which 38 were 
closed. The closing balance was therefore 
1,355 sites. 
The inherent strengths of Pub Partners include: 
our geographic bias to the South East, which 
offers relative protection from economic 
downturns; our preference for tenancies over 
leases, which facilitated the changes required 
to stabilise the business; our high quality assets; 
our relationship with our beer brands and our 
corporate brand, which ensures a consistently 
high level of service and quality to our licensees; 
and our high standards of recruitment and 
training, which aims to ensure all of our pubs 
are run by talented, professional licensees. 
The simplicity and flexibility of our agreements 
is also an attraction to prospective licensees. 
We offer three substantive agreements: a one 
year foundation agreement for first-time licensees 
(20%); a three year rolling tenancy agreement 
with built-in tie flexibility (53%); and a ten to 
25 year assignable lease, free of all wine, spirits 
and minerals (WSM) ties (20%). As a result, 52% 
of all agreements are free of any WSM tie and 
only 55% of our licensees use a machine tie. 
Building on these strengths, we are now around 
halfway through our turnaround programme for 
Pub Partners, having made excellent progress, 
particularly in the last six months, and we believe 
Pub Partners is now leading the sector on 
performance and stability. There are clear 
indications of the business beginning to stabilise 
and this is directly linked to a number of key 
initiatives we have taken through the recession 
and in the last six months, including:
G  Creating the Independence Pub Company 
(IPC) to separate out those pubs that required 
a more flexible, focused and practical approach. 
There are currently 256 pubs in IPC, down 
from 404 at its launch, of which 83 have been 
disposed, eleven are closed for disposal and 
54 have returned to the core estate. We will 
re-integrate IPC back into the core estate 
during this year. 
G  Investing an industry-leading level of tenant 
financial support, totalling £5.1m or £3.7k per 
pub this year, split between our Crunch Time 
price initiative to drive licensee volume growth 
through enhanced value to their customers, 
and selective rent concessions and reductions 
to improve licensee profitability and cash flow. 
Further product enhancements to Crunch Time, 
which we have now rebranded ‘Love Y our 
Local’, have also been introduced, including an 
updated range of value-for-money food offers.
PuB P ARTneRS
PROVIDING Qu AliTy
The inherent strengths of Pub Partners include: our 
geographic bias to the South East; our preference 
for  tenancies over leases; our high quality assets; our 
relationship with our beer brands and our corporate 
brand; and our high standards of recruitment 
and training.
52 weeks  08/09 09/10 Change
Average number of pubs trading  1,445 1,372 -5.1%
Revenue  £155.2m £145.1m -6.5%
EBITDA  £78.1m £71.8m -8.1%
Operating profit  £70.9m £64.6m -8.9%
Operating profit margin  45.7% 44.5% -1.2%pts
EBITDA per pub  £54.0k £52.3k -3.2%
G  Investing in Brulines i-draught technology, 
being rolled out across 900 pubs in our estate, 
which has been mutually beneficial for us and 
our licensees. This has helped drive improved 
beer volumes for Pub Partners and it has been 
instrumental in helping our licensees better manage 
product quality, improve yield management 
and limit staff issues. Post deployment, volume 
uplifts are 5% ahead of our expectations. 
G  Investing in improving the calibre of our 
senior operations team, combined with the 
introduction of PDAs across the operations 
team, which has enabled a step change in the 
ways of working, effectiveness and efficiency 
in the field.
The benefits from these initiatives and the strengths 
of the model have not only delivered an improved 
financial performance trend for Pub Partners, they 
have also helped to improve our key licensee health 
measures. An industry-leading 93% of the estate is 
now on substantive agreements, with 74 temporary 
agreements at the year-end, the reduction over the  Business Review
11
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
Ensuring the right fit is crucial 
when it comes to matching 
people with the right pub 
in our tenanted and leased 
business. Our detailed 
induction programme plays 
a key role in an on-going 
development plan in which 
our specialist tenant trainers 
also share their knowledge 
and experience with 
new licensees.
second half helping to reduce the level of tenant 
support required. There was just one pub closed for 
reopening at year-end, against 30 12 months ago, 
bad debts have reduced 40bps in 12 months to 
1.1% of sales and the average tenure of our licensees 
has grown to three years and nine months. 
Even though Pub Partners is now leading the 
industry in terms of performance and key licensee 
health measures, we believe there are still two 
specific challenges that Pub Partners is facing in 
common with the whole tenanted sector; the 
ongoing regulatory pressures on the tied model 
and the long-term viability of many tenanted and 
leased pubs, given their comparatively weak offer 
against managed pubs, branded restaurants and 
the supermarkets. We have therefore decided 
to implement two specific strategies to further 
cement Pub Partners’ position as the best 
tenanted and leased operator in the UK:
G  Use our new Code of Practice as a catalyst 
for organisational change within Pub Partners. 
Our aim is to create the most customer-focused 
  tenanted business with the strongest retail 
skills in the sector. We will drive significant 
improvements amongst our licensees, our 
offers and our pubs to enhance Pub Partners’ 
competitiveness through a repositioning 
towards a more retail-led approach. 
G  Accelerate the rate of disposals and transfers, 
across both Pub Partners and Belhaven, to retail 
to reduce the overall tenanted estate from 1,584 
outlets currently to c. 1,200 outlets, ensuring a 
capability to deliver sustainable cash returns for 
both our licensees and our shareholders.
We believe a smaller, more retail-focused 
business can ensure a profitable long-term future 
for Pub Partners, allowing it to take an active role 
in the development of Greene King. Our plan to 
only operate high quality, sustainable pubs run by 
customer-focused licensees and supported by 
better control and direction from Pub Partners, 
should see Pub Partners move back into 
sustainable per pub profit growth over the 
next 12 to 18 months. 
Visit the Pub Partners division online
ww7.investorrelations.co.uk/greeneking/
greeneking0910/pubpartners 12
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
CHIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEW
BelhA ven
52 weeks  08/09 09/10 Change
Revenue  £136.0m £151.9m +11.7%
EBITDA  £34.9m £38.4m +10.0%
Operating profit  £30.2m £32.7m +8.3%
Operating profit margin  22.2% 21.5% -0.7%pts
Belhaven’s continued success in Scotland is built upon 
its unique focus on the Scottish market, its high quality 
pub estate, a strong and stable management team, 
support and investment from Greene King and, most 
crucially, a retention of its Scottishness.
Continuing to invest in our 
pubs as well as our people 
is a key part of our success. 
The Old Post Office in 
Livingston, a brownfield 
development, turned the 
old post office into the new 
heart of the community as 
an Eating Inn. 
Visit the Belhaven division online
ww7.investorrelations.co.uk/greeneking/
greeneking0910/belhaven Business Review
13
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
Belhaven
In the last 18 months, there has been more 
change at Belhaven than in all the previous years 
of Greene King’s ownership combined, including 
senior management transition, the closure of the 
bottling plant and a critical back-office integration 
project. Y et, notwithstanding this, Belhaven again 
delivered a record result. Revenue was up 
11.7% to £151.9m with operating profit up 
8.3% to £32.7m. The operating margin was 
marginally behind last year in the second half of 
the year and ended the year at 21.5%, 70bps 
down on last year, entirely due to changes in the 
channel mix. Profits grew strongly in both retail 
and brewing with underlying profit per pub only 
marginally down in tenancies. The number of 
pubs trading grew from 325 to 334 and, on 
average, 331 were trading during the year.
Belhaven’s continued success in Scotland 
is built upon its unique focus on the Scottish 
market, operating a high quality pub estate in 
a fragmented market, supplemented by quality 
acquisitions, selling the leading ale and lager 
brands both within the Belhaven estate and to 
its free trade customers, a strong and stable 
management team, the ongoing support and 
investment from Greene King and, most 
crucially, a retention of its Scottishness in a 
market in which this is highly valued. 
In retail, Belhaven achieved LFL sales growth of 
5.5%. This was led by the strong performance from 
our destination food-led pub restaurant brand, 
Eating Inn. Both drink and food LFLs were positive, 
with food up 15% in the year taking food participation 
to 29% of sales. Including the impact of acquisitions, 
total sales grew 20% in the year, driven by 
strategically important categories such as food 
+28%, wine +29%, soft drinks +19% and 
coffee +21%. We made a total of fourteen 
acquisitions in the year including packages from 
Punch and Mitchells & Butlers. They are trading 
well and in line with our expectations. 
Our tenanted and leased business in Scotland 
has delivered a solid performance. Although LFL 
volumes were down, the wholesale margin per 
barrel and rent were both up, leading to gross 
profits in line with last year. We have shared 
many of the learnings from Pub Partners’ 
experiences since the recession hit and 
Belhaven’s tenanted business is well prepared 
for any further economic pressure in Scotland. 
Licensee health measures have remained stable 
throughout the year. 
Belhaven Best, Scotland’s no.1 ale brand, has 
again led a strong performance from Belhaven’s 
brewing division. Best volumes grew 15.4% in 
the year, whilst our other own-brewed volumes 
grew 28%. We therefore made significant market 
share gains and increased the awareness of the 
Belhaven Best brand. We grew the number of 
free trade accounts by 8% to over 2,100 and 
we again came first in the annual Dram customer 
service survey. 
CONTINUING inveSTmenT 14
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
CHIEF ExECUTIvE’S REvIEW
Brewing Company
Brewing Company has once again strongly 
outperformed the UK ale market over the 
last 12 months. Our own-brewed ale brands 
achieved volume growth of 3.6% against a 
market down 6.3%, according to the BBPA. 
As a result, our share of the ale market rose 
90bps to over 9%. Sales to external channels 
account for 80% of our own-brewed volumes 
and all channels achieved volume growth in the 
year, with particularly strong performances from 
Free T rade and T ake Home. Our volume growth 
translated into revenue of £97.9m, 4.3% above 
last year, and operating profit of £21.4m, 0.9% 
above last year. Margins fell 70bps due to mix 
and higher input prices from third party suppliers.
Our aim is to be the best branded beer company 
in England by delivering the best value, service and 
quality to our customers across all trade channels. 
Our success can be measured by the fact that we 
produce three of the top ten ales in the on trade* 
and three of the top ten premium ales in the off 
trade.** Additionally, we won Cask Brewer of the 
Y ear in the Morning Advertiser’s Supplier Awards, 
and more recently, we earned six Gold medals in 
the prestigious Monde Quality Awards.
We are strengthening our position through 
continued market-leading investment; our 
support of England Rugby; our focus on local 
provenance; and our advertising on Dave TV 
Channel. We concentrate brewing in one historic 
but highly efficient brewery in Bury St Edmunds 
and focus our brand investment in Greene King 
IPA, the country’s no.1 cask ale; Old Speckled 
Hen, the nation’s no.1 premium ale; and Abbot 
Ale, the UK’s no.2 premium cask ale. 
We are well positioned to capture the benefits 
of the increasing interest in provenance and 
quality given our historic and long-term commitment 
to best ingredients and traditional brewing. Over 
85% of our barley is grown locally and malted 
within two miles of the brewery; our water is 
drawn from artesian wells below the brew 
house; our unique yeasts are cultivated on site 
and 98% of the hops we use are English. We are 
the only brewer to have Red T ractor status across 
all of our brands.
Greene King IPA continues to expand its national 
footprint, whilst maintaining its traditional heartland 
in the south east of England. Our innovative Cask 
Revolution font is now installed in over 1,000 outlets 
and we are planning to double that number this 
year. It is generating a strong return on investment 
and, on average, increasing Greene King IPA 
outlet rate of sale by 9% over traditional fonts. 
The brand’s status as ‘Official Beer of England 
Rugby’ has been extended to 2012 and we 
continue to sponsor Sale Sharks, Wasps, 
Harlequins and grass roots rugby across 
the country. 
Old Speckled Hen, which last year celebrated 
its 30th anniversary, continues to strengthen 
its position, particularly through its advertising 
campaign on the Dave TV channel. It is ‘the 
brand that ale drinkers most want to see on the 
bar next time they go to the pub and on the 
shelves next time they go to the supermarket’***, 
and it achieved volume growth of over 7% this 
year. In T ake Home it has reached a 12% value 
share and the brand now accounts for two thirds 
of our exports, growing particularly strongly in the 
important US craft beer market.
 * Publican Brands Report, May 2010.
 ** Nielsen, MAT value, Grocery Multiples, 12 June 2010. 
 *** HPI Cardinal Brand T racking, April 2010.
BReWinG ComPAny
BUILDING BRAnDS
52 weeks  08/09 09/10 Change
Revenue  £93.9m £97.9m +4.3%
EBITDA  £25.4m £25.6m +0.8%
Operating profit  £21.2m £21.4m +0.9%
Operating profit margin  22.6% 21.9% -0.7%pts
Our success can be measured by the fact that 
we produce three of the top ten ales in the on 
trade* and three of the top ten premium ales 
in the off trade.**  Business Review
15
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010
ouTlooK
Britain’s leading premium ale, 
Old Speckled Hen, is just one 
of our stable of famous beers, 
which includes Greene King 
IPA and Abbot Ale plus a host 
of special and seasonal beers.  
Continuing to invest and build 
our three core brands is 
central to our strategy for 
our beers going forward.
Visit the Brewing Company division online
ww7.investorrelations.co.uk/greeneking/ 
greeneking0910/brewing
Current trading and outlook
We have continued to trade strongly in the first 
eight weeks of the new financial year to 27 June, 
particularly in our retail operations. Retail LFL 
sales are +6.0% and Belhaven retail LFL sales 
are +1.5%. Pub Partners continues to stabilise 
with average EBITDA per pub broadly in line with 
last year. Brewing Company total volumes are 
+3.6%, own-brewed volumes are –2.7% and 
Belhaven Best volumes remain strong at +7.1%. 
The overall Greene King performance in the first 
two months of the year has been encouraging 
and ahead of our expectations for the period. 
Looking ahead, we are hopeful that the coalition 
government will be more supportive of our industry 
and look forward to working closely with them 
on responsible drinking, the tie and alcohol duty. 
Given the possible impact of the emergency 
budget on consumer spending, trading conditions 
are likely to remain challenging. However, we are 
confident that our current trading momentum 
and our plans for future growth, underpinned 
by our high quality assets, industry leading brands 
and talented people, will ensure that we deliver 
another successful year for Greene King and 
its shareholders. 
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
30 June 2010
