 business review
www.greeneking.co.uk 8 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011
chief executive’s review
This has been another strong year for 
Greene King with good progress across all 
businesses delivering record revenue and 
profit. Revenue was £1,042.7m, up 6.0% on 
last year, with strong growth in Greene King 
Retail and Brewing and Brands. Operating 
profit was £222.0m, 5.1% ahead of last year, 
with a healthy operating margin of 21.3%. 
Profit before tax and exceptionals was 
£140.0m, up 13.8% on last year and another 
record performance, while adjusted 
earnings per share was up 11.1% at 48.2p. 
The board is recommending a final dividend 
of 16.8p per share, 7 .7% ahead of last year, 
taking the total dividend for the year to 
23.1p per share, up 7 .4%.
Market and business overview
We have delivered a record performance in 
a year in which the UK economy moved out 
Key performance indicators
3. PBTE
Summary
EPS grew 11.1% to 48.2p as a result of record 
revenues being converted into record PBTE. 
Summary
Following record results and strong cash 
generation, the board has recommended a final 
dividend payment of 16.8p per share, 7 .7% ahead 
of last year, producing a total dividend per share 
for the year of 23.1p, 7 .4% ahead of last year. 
Summary
We achieved a record profit before tax and 
exceptionals of £140.0m, up 13.8% on last year. 
This was driven by 5.1% operating profit 
growth and lower interest charges. 
Definition
Profit for the period attributable to equity 
holders, excluding the effect of exceptional 
items, divided by the weighted average number 
of shares in issue during the period excluding 
own shares held.
Definition
Total dividend per share paid and proposed 
in respect of the period.
Definition
Group profit for the period after financing 
charges but before tax and exceptional items. 
48.2p £140.0m 23.1p
43.4
48.2
53.4
2010 2011 2009
123.0
140.0
118.5
2010 2011 2009
21.5
23.1
21.0
2010 2011 2009
of recession but failed to deliver anticipated 
growth levels. Real household income fell and 
is expected to do so again in 2011, impacting on 
consumer confidence. We also saw changeable 
trading in the second half of the year due to 
the weather, with snow across the country in 
December but much better Spring weather. 
We also benefited from a successful Royal 
Wedding weekend.
The pub and beer industry also continues to 
face political and social challenges. The duty 
escalator is penalising responsible drinkers 
and accelerating the closure of pubs and 
clubs in communities across the country, 
as alcohol is increasingly consumed in the 
home. We believe the government should be 
doing more to reverse current consumption 
trends, starting with setting a credible and 
meaningful minimum price for alcohol to 
target irresponsible retailers and drinkers 
without penalising the responsible majority. 
T o deliver a record performance in this context 
demonstrates the success of our strategy 
for growth and the strength of the people, 
the brands and the pubs at Greene King. 
We believe the best way to deliver long-term, 
profitable growth is to focus on expanding 
our Retail business and growing our share 
of the eating out market. This strategy is 
supported by improving the quality of our 
tenanted and leased estate via targeted 
disposals, agreement innovation and enhanced 
control of the offer, and investing in our 
leading ale brand portfolio. 
Across all businesses, our operational 
focus on delivering industry-leading Value, 
Service & Quality (VSQ) to our customers 
has driven our record performance. In this 
austere age, our customers are looking for 
‘affordable treats’, which we are delivering 
by continuously adding value to our offers, 
particularly in food, by exceeding customer 
expectations on service, and by maintaining 
industry leading product and offer quality. 
We are focused on increasing our share 
of the growing eating-out market. In Retail, 
food and food-related sales are approaching 
60% of total sales following another year of 
strong growth. We have upgraded kitchen 
facilities across the estate, further developed 
our menus and targeted cover growth and 
share gains through delivering exceptional 
value to our customers. Similarly in Pub 
Partners, our investment is focused on 
improving the food capability of our pubs. 
Our recruitment and training is increasingly 
geared to improving the overall food 
expertise amongst our licensees and we 
continue to utilise our Retail expertise to 
offer licensees a range of food solutions to 
grow their food sales.
We are investing in the development of the 
Greene King brand. We have launched our 
‘proper pubs’ and ‘proper pint’ campaigns, 
investing £2.5m, and since the year-end, we 
have launched the new Greene King brand 
identity. We have updated brand imagery, 
brand colours and the company website, to 
1. Adjusted earnings per share 2. Adjusted dividend per share Business review
9 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
4. Average profit per outlet 5. Free cash flow 6. Fixed charge cover
Summary
Despite another challenging year, Greene King 
Retail average profit per outlet grew 9.6% and 
Pub Partners average profit per outlet grew 1.5%. 
This was achieved through strong revenue growth 
and tight cost control. 
Summary
Increased EBITDA and strong working capital 
performance has helped to generate positive free 
cash flow in the year of £51.2m, a 28% increase 
on last year. 
Summary
Fixed charged cover improved to 2.6x in the 
year due to increased EBITDA and reduced 
interest costs.
Definition
Operating profit for the period, pre-exceptionals, 
divided by the average number of pubs in the period.
Definition
Free cash flow is the movement in net debt due to 
operating cash flows, after interest payments, tax 
payments, core capex and dividends, but excluding 
exceptional items, acquisitions, disposals and 
share movements.
Definition
Fixed charge cover is calculated using the 
formula EBITDAR (operating profit before 
depreciation, amortisation, rent and exceptionals) 
less maintenance capex divided by the sum of 
interest and rent. 
£148k £47 .9k
retail pub partners 135
2010
148
2011
47 .3
2010
47.9
2011
£51.2m
40.0
51.2
2010 2011
23.7
2009
2.4
2.6
2010 2011 2009
2.1
2.6x
reflect Greene King’s reputation for delivering 
authentic hospitality to its customers. 
We have completed the integration of 
Belhaven, maintaining business continuity 
and capturing anticipated synergies of £1m 
per annum. Belhaven has been a great success 
story for Greene King. Profits have increased 
by 77% since the 2005 acquisition, following 
another good year this year. Investment in 
Scotland continues: our new brewhouse 
opened for business in May 2011 and we 
acquired another four Retail pubs in the 
year. I am confident that the fully integrated 
Scottish operations will continue to be 
successful going forward. As a result of this 
integration, our Business Review is presented 
on the basis of the post integration model.
Strategy update
Our strategy for growth is three-fold: first, 
expanding the number of sites in Retail, 
our biggest and fastest growing division, to 
1,100, and improving the overall quality of 
the estate; second, reducing our tenanted 
and leased business to around 1,200 sites, 
and taking more control over the offer in the 
core estate; and third, increasing investment 
and driving growth of our core ale brands. 
Following good progress in the year, we 
remain on track to meet our targets. 
Retail expansion
We started the year with 888 sites and 
ended the year with 915 sites. We acquired, 
or transferred in from Pub Partners, 39 sites 
and disposed of a small number of sites, 
mainly from the value high street segment. 
In addition, we exchanged on eight 
greenfield sites. All acquisitions should 
improve the overall quality of the Retail 
estate by either driving greater exposure 
to the eating out market or driving the 
premiumisation of our overall offer. The net 
acquisition cost of the acquired sites was 
£130.7m and these acquired sites are expected 
to deliver an average site EBITDA of £436.4k, 
more than double the average for the 
existing estate. 
We acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants on 
28 January 2011 for £55.7m. Cloverleaf 
consists of 12 freehold, food-led sites, 
delivering, at the time of the acquisition, an 
average weekly turnover (AWT) of c.£40k 
and average EBITDA per site of c.£540k. 
Food is 69% of sales. Cloverleaf brings us 
carvery expertise and another concept to 
expand through our new-build programme. 
The Cloverleaf pipeline of new sites will 
deliver a minimum of ten additional sites 
trading by the end of April 2013 and we are 
looking to expand the concept further south 
and into Scotland. 
We acquired Realpubs on 27 April 2011 for 
£52.2m. Realpubs consists of 14 London pubs, 
all but one freehold, trading a well developed 
premium pub dining concept. AWT is c.£25k 
and EBITDA per site is c.£450k. Food is 
currently 33% of sales and growing strongly. 
We are looking to work closely with the 
team at Realpubs to spearhead our premium 
growth by converting a number of Greene 
King London pubs to the Realpubs concept, 
acquiring additional sites in London and 
expanding the Realpubs concept outside 
of the M25. 
Tenanted quality improvement
We reduced the number of tenanted 
and leased pubs by 4% and grew average 
EBITDA per pub in Pub Partners by 1.9%. 
We are increasingly operating Pub Partners 
as a more customer focused business, 
becoming more directive and influential 
over our licensees’ offers. This is reflected in 
the agreement innovation we have delivered 
in the year, including the launch of Blueprint, 
our new and innovative franchise-style 
agreement, which is delivering site profit 
increases of £65-£70k per annum. We are 
recruiting better quality licensees through 
a more demanding recruitment process, 
we are reducing direct licensee support 
and we have increased investment in our 
pubs by 33%. 
Core ale brand growth and investment
In the year we launched ‘Man Deserves 
a Proper Pint’, a £1m media campaign for 
Greene King IPA. The campaign is expected 
to reach around 14m men through the 
national press and male targeted magazines. 
We also increased our ‘above-the-line’ media 
investment in Belhaven Best with a new TV 
advertising campaign. Greene King IPA is 
the official beer of England Rugby and 
Old Speckled Hen sponsors prime time 
on the Dave TV Channel. Total investment 
in our brands in the year was £6.8m. business review
10 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
retail We have increased the size 
and quality of our Retail estate 
through outstanding value, service 
& quality delivery, a focus on food 
growth and development, and 
targeted acquisitions.
Food is now approaching 40% of sales with LFL 
sales growth of 8.1%.
During the year we acquired 39 additional Retail 
sites including acquisitions of Cloverleaf Restaurants 
and Realpubs.
Our brands
KPIs
average number 
of sites trading 892
+1.5%
879
2010
892
2011
revenue (£m)
£710.7m
+8.1%
657 .7
710.7
2010 2011
ebitda (£m)
£173.0m
+9.8%
157 .5
173.0
2010 2011
operating profit (£m)
£118.7m
+11.2%
132.0
118.7
2010 2011
operating profit margin (%)
18.6%
+0.6%pts
18.0
18.6
2010 2011
ebitda per site (£000)
£193.9k
+8.2%
179.2
193.9
2010 2011
Greene King Retail has again demonstrated its 
ability to generate profitable, industry-leading 
sales growth, both through underlying organic 
growth and by growing the size and quality 
of its estate. Revenue was £710.7m, up 8.1% 
on last year on 1.5% more sites. LFL sales 
growth was 4.9%. Operating profit was 
£132.0m, up 11.2% on last year with operating 
margins growing 60bps in the year. In the 
year, all brands and segments performed 
well, as did all strategic growth categories, 
including food, wine, soft drinks, coffee 
and cask ale.
Our strong growth has been achieved 
through a focus on three strategic pillars: 
1.  delivering the best VSQ in the industry 
to drive volume and value growth;
2.  investing behind our food offer to drive 
industry-leading growth and a greater 
share of the sales mix; and
3.  focusing on operating branded and 
segmented offers.
Value, service and quality
We only operate pubs, restaurants or 
hotels if they can deliver the best VSQ in 
their markets to drive both organic volume 
and value growth. We have improved value 
across the estate through menu management, 
targeted promotional activity and known 
value item (KVI) drink pricing. We have 
enhanced our service standards as measured by  Business review
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 11
The eating out 
market in the UK is 
worth over £40bn 
and is expected to 
deliver long-term 
growth.
Greene King is 
outperforming the 
market with food sales 
in the year of £263m, 
up 13% on last year, 
and LFL food sales 
growth of 8.1%.
Cloverleaf Restaurants
With large, freehold, quality pub 
restaurants across the Midlands and 
the North of England, Cloverleaf 
Restaurants are well positioned 
to capitalise on the growing 
carvery market.
We acquired Cloverleaf 
Restaurants in 
January 2011.
a 230bps improvement in our Net Promoter 
Score and by rolling out table service through 
the Eating Inn brand. On quality , we are rolling 
out illy coffee, which is driving a 9% increase 
in sales per site, we have won a series of awards 
for our exclusive wine range, we have signed 
up 400 apprentices to our new apprenticeship 
scheme and we have invested £76m in 
improving the fabric and facilities of our 
pubs, restaurants and hotels.
Food
The eating out market in the UK is 
worth over £40bn and is expected to 
deliver long-term growth. Greene King is 
outperforming the market with food sales 
in the year of £263m, up 13% on last year, 
and LFL food sales growth of 8.1%. We sold 
over 36m meals, of which two million were 
fish & chips, and food is now almost 40% 
ofsales with food-related sales approaching 
60%. We are investing in kitchen 
improvements to drive higher maximum 
cover turns and improve service standards. 
Our growing scale, which has facilitated 
moving to a central distribution (CD) system 
in Local Pubs, taking the total food 
distributed through CD to 94%, and 
increasing buying and food development 
expertise, are allowing us to offset rising 
cost pressures. And, we are acquiring 
food-led businesses, such as Cloverleaf, 
and expanding existing food-led brands, 
such as Eating Inn and Hungry Horse.
Branding and segmentation
Greene King Retail operates a focused branded 
and segmented structure. In Destination 
Pubs, every pub or restaurant is branded, 
operating a strict, centralised commercial 
and operating structure. Each brand appeals 
to specific segments of the population and 
is targeted at specific occasions during the 
week. In Local Pubs, we operate under a 
segmented operating policy, but each pub 
appeals to a broad cross-section of the local 
community and each house manager has 
significant opportunity to stamp their own 
flair and imagination on each business, to 
cater for specific local needs. This brand 
and segmented approach gives us significant 
buying scale, facilitates a higher level of 
customer understanding and analysis, and 
simplifies our acquisition strategy and capital 
expenditure programme. All brands have 
their own market positions and are taking 
market share.
Destination Pubs
It was another strong year in Destination 
Pubs. Hungry Horse delivered good growth, 
with LFL sales up over 10% for the third 
year running and average weekly turnover 
(AWT) up 7 .0% to £19.0k. VSQ improvements 
delivered cover growth of 17%, with further 
dish innovation such as the ‘Leaning Tower 
of Pizza Burger’.  business review
12 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
retail continued
‘‘  All our brands have 
their own market 
positions and are 
taking market share.”
Find out more 
greenekingreports.com/ 
ar11/ceo
Eating Inn 
Our mid-market dining brand, 
Eating Inn, offers full table service 
and, with its contemporary design, 
excellent value for money and a 
fresh, healthy food offer, it appeals 
to all ages, from families to couples, 
old and young.
Branding and segmentation continued
Destination Pubs continued
Our success over the last two to three 
years has led to Hungry Horse winning 
the 2011 Great British Pub Food ‘Concept 
of the Year’ award.
Old English Inns (OEI) also had a good year 
with good LFL sales growth and all major 
categories in growth. AWT grew 6.6% to £18k. 
Food covers grew 12% and we introduced a 
cultural change programme to OEI, putting 
service and people at the heart of the 
customer offer.
Our mid-market family dining brand, 
Eating Inn, is now up to 14 sites with a 
further 19 to be developed this year. Eating 
Inn offers full table service, a contemporary 
design, excellent value for money and a fresh, 
healthy food offer. Food is 68% of sales. 
Loch Fyne Restaurants (LFR) saw LFL sales 
slightly down. We launched the first loyalty 
card in Greene King across a number of trial 
sites in LFR, signing up an average of 300 
customers per trial site, of which 72% were 
new to the database. Their average transaction 
value is 7% higher than the LFR average. 
We introduced new feature dishes such as 
the ‘Fisherman’s Plate’ sharing platter and 
Awatere Pass Sauvignon Blanc, exclusive 
to LFR, won a gold medal in the recent 
Sommelier Wine Awards. 
It was another successful year for 
Belhaven Retail. LFL sales were +4.1% 
with all major sales categories in growth. 
Coffee sales grew 71%, LFL wine sales were 
up 6.4% and food grew 130bps to over 30.0% 
of sales. 
Local Pubs
Our V alue, Mainstream and Premium segments 
all achieved strong LFL sales growth. In V alue, 
we extended food trading hours and improved 
our value proposition with total food spend 
per head falling 7 .0% to below £5, driving 
covers up 32%. We made another step-change 
in product quality including introducing 
‘hand-battered’ Fish & Chips. 
In Mainstream, LFL sales growth accelerated 
in the second half of the year driven by strong 
growth in food sales with spend per head 
flat at just over £6 and food covers up 14%. 
We enhanced our lunchtime meal deals, 
improved our mystery guest scores and 
increased the amount of fresh food on 
the menu. 
Excluding Realpubs, Premium is now 40% 
of Local Pubs sales value. LFL sales growth 
was strong and food is up to 28% of sales. 
Spend per head was flat, at over £8, while 
covers grew 9%. We revamped our segment 
operating policies, focusing on improved 
service standards, we extended our range 
of world beers, including San Miguel and 
Estrella Damm, and we began rolling out 
illy coffee. Business review
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 13
Food
Our priority is to invest 
behind our food offer
During the year we sold over 36 million meals 
and saw food-related sales approach 60%.
Over two million of the meals we sold were 
fish and chips. business review
14 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
pub partners
Profitability has improved, for 
both Pub Partners and licensees, 
through agreement innovation, 
increased customer offer control 
and targeted investment.
Our three-year Greene King tenancy is our most popular 
agreement and is supported by innovative agreements 
such as Blueprint, our new franchise-style agreement. 
We have also increased our control of the customer offer 
via value, service and quality contracts with licensees.
Capital investment into estate has increased by 33% to 
support licensee recruitment and the profit sustainability 
of each pub.
KPIs
Our agreements
— One year Greene King foundation
— Three year Greene King tenancy
— Six to ten year Blueprint franchise agreement
— Ten year Greene King lease
average number 
of pubs trading 1,554
-3.0%
revenue (£m)
£166.4m
-1.4%
ebitda (£m)
£82.6m
-1.2%
operating profit (£m)
£74.5m
-1.6%
operating profit margin (%)
44.8%
-0.1%pts
ebitda per pub (£000)
£53.2k
+1.9%
1,554
1,602
2010 2011
168.7 166.4
2010 2011
83.6 82.6
2010 2011
75.7 74.5
2010 2011
44.9 44.8
2010 2011
52.2
53.2
2010 2011
Pub Partners has delivered profit per pub 
growth and made good progress in further 
improving the quality of its agreements, its 
licensees, their offers and its pubs. This was 
in the context of another challenging year 
for the tenanted and leased sector and the 
successful integration of the Belhaven 
tenanted estate. Our strategy to reduce the 
size and improve the quality of the estate is 
on track. We are also driving customer focus 
throughout Pub Partners, have launched, 
and embedded into the business, our new 
BII accredited Code of Practice, and we have 
recently won the HIM Tenant Tracker Pub 
Company of the Year, based on a survey 
of licensees across the industry. 
Revenue was £166.4m, up 1.7% on a per 
pub basis, while operating profit was £74.5m, 
up 1.5% on a per pub basis. In the original 
Pub Partners estate, excluding Belhaven, 
LFL EBITDA was +1.0% and average EBITDA 
per pub was +2.9%. Operating profit margin 
was 44.8%, only 10bps below last year. Business review
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 15
Business Development Manager Training
Pub Partners has developed a training 
programme for their Business Development 
Managers to ensure that they provide 
first class business consultancy advice to 
their licensees. T welve Pub Partners BDMs 
are taking a post graduate diploma in 
multi site retailing with Birmingham City 
Business School, with the remainder 
commencing it in October 2011. 
Mike Mannion, BDM in the South says, 
“I’ve been in this business for 16 years 
so have plenty of experience. 
But the Post Graduate Diploma is 
helping me support my licensees much 
more strategically, planning long term 
for the future rather than just 
considering the next couple of years”.
Recruiting and retaining the best licensees 
to run our pubs remains the most important 
factor in a successful tenanted and leased 
business. W e have upweighted our recruitment 
team and campaigns, with particular focus 
on our online programme, and we have 
toughened the recruitment process, including 
holding final interviews for every prospective 
licensee with an operations director and 
delivering mandatory training for all new 
licensees. By the year-end, we were receiving 
seven enquiries for each vacancy in the 
English estate, compared to four at the end 
of the first half, while licensee churn fell 
six percentage points. Including Belhaven, 
there were just seven pubs closed for 
reopening and 76 TAWs at the year-end, 
while bad debt was 0.7% of sales. 
‘‘ We are unique 
amongst our main 
competition with 
our mystery customer 
programme and 
our training for 
our Business 
Development 
Managers.’’
Pub Partners is driving innovation in 
its agreements, including:
1.  Blueprint – a franchise-style agreement 
within which Pub Partners directs and 
controls the product offer, driving a 
minimum forecast franchisee profit 
of £45k per year;
2.  Business Builder – lower wholesale 
prices are linked to VSQ contracts with 
licensees and Pub Partners invests up 
to £15k; and
3.  Local Hero – the pub is transformed into 
a ‘local’ pub, selling local ales and local 
food, supported by local licensees and 
the local community.  business review
16 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
pub partners continued
Customer satisfaction survey
Long term licensees, Dave and Trish 
McManus have run their upmarket 
destination food pub, The Hare Arms, 
for 35 years. They welcomed the 
initiative , using the results to reward 
great service and improve their offer.
Speaking about it, Trish said, “The 
mystery shops are a very good idea. 
When you get such great results back, 
it’s a big boost for our team. Our recent 
survey highlighted some areas in our 
garden which could be improved. 
We took that honest feedback on board 
and now keep an even closer eye on 
maintaining really high standards outside. 
It was helpful to bring that to our 
attention and make us see what our 
customers were seeing. 
Having a fresh pair of eyes look around 
the pub and giving you their honest, 
impartial advice is certainly helpful. 
It means we can make small changes to 
maintain the high standards for which 
we have become renowned and which 
our customers expect.”
Investment in our pub estate, to support 
our agreement innovation and our efforts to 
improve returns for both Pub Partners and 
its licensees, has increased 33% to £16.3m. 
Our investments are strategic and focused 
on improving the long-term profitability 
of an outlet, through improving both the 
external décor and the internal facilities, 
particularly by improving the provision of 
food. The average return on expansionary 
capital was 37%.
There are 60 of these agreements in place, 
with a further 150 planned for the new 
financial year. This would take the share 
of the core estate under an element of 
Greene King control to almost 20%. 
We are also unique amongst our main 
competitors in two innovative ways. 
First, we have introduced a mystery 
customer programme, called ‘Missing 
Something’, to improve service levels and 
encourage return visits and spend per head. 
Second, we have introduced a diploma for 
our Business Development Managers (BDM) 
in Multi-Unit Leadership in conjunction 
with Birmingham City University. The first 
group of our BDMs, across England and 
Scotland, have already started using their 
learnings from the course to improve their 
ways of working and effectiveness in the 
business, to the benefit of our licensees. 
Find out more 
greenekingreports.com/ 
ar11/ceo
‘‘ We are also 
driving customer 
focus throughout 
Pub Partners. Our free 
customer surveys 
have helped many of 
our licensees improve 
the retail offer to their 
customers.’’ Business review
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 17
Innovation
Pub Partners is driving innovation 
with a range of new agreements 
and offers.
Our new Blueprint agreement is a franchise 
style agreement designed to improve tenant 
profitability and drive improved levels of 
value, service and quality for customers.
This is the Orange Tree at Braintree, a Blueprint pub. business review
18 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
KPIs
Our efficient route to market drives 
industry-leading investment in an 
iconic national ale brand portfolio.
Our leading portfolio of national ale brands includes 
Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen, Abbot Ale and 
Belhaven Best. Operating from just one English and one 
Scottish brewery helps us to optimise our production 
efficiencies to reinvest in our brands.
revenue (£m)
£165.6m
+5.0%
operating profit margin (%)
20.0%
-0.2%pts
Our brands
ebitda (£m)
£38.3m
+1.9%
operating profit (£m)
£33.1m
+4.1%
165.6
157 .7
2010 2011
20.2 20.0
2010 2011
37.6
38.3
2010 2011
31.8
33.1
2010 2011
brewing and brands
Brewing and Brands is the UK’s leading 
independent brewer with the best ale brand 
portfolio: Greene King IPA, the UK’s No.1 
cask ale brand; Old Speckled Hen, the UK’s 
No.1 premium ale brand; Abbot Ale, the UK’s 
No.1 premium cask ale brand; and Belhaven 
Best, Scotland’s No.1 ale brand. Our profitable 
growth is driven by our focus on using an 
efficient production and distribution model 
to maintain the best product quality and 
consistency in the market and to invest 
ahead of the market in our core brands. 
Own-brewed volumes were -2.0% against 
the UK ale market down 6.3%, while total 
volumes, driven by another excellent year 
in Free Trade and Belhaven, were up 2.5% 
against the total UK beer market at -2.1%. 
This was converted into revenue up 5.0% to 
£165.6m, driven by price and mix benefits, 
while operating profit grew 4.1% to £33.1m. 
The margin was just 20bps lower at 20.0% 
despite cost increases in the year of £3.4m. 
Old Speckled Hen was our biggest selling 
brand in the year and is the UK’s No.1 
premium ale. Its leading share of the 
growing premium off-trade ale market 
rose 70bps to 13.2%. The brand’s success is 
supported by sponsorship of prime time on 
Dave TV , which reaches 17m ale drinkers 
through the year. The future for the brand 
looks strong: in recent research by YouGov, 
Old Speckled Hen ranked second in ‘brand 
health’ within the long alcoholic drinks  Business review
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 19
Old Speckled 
Hen – the UK’s No. 1 
premium ale. Its leading 
share of the growing 
premium off-trade ale 
market rose 70bps 
to 13.2%.
In recent research by 
Y ouGov, Old Speckled Hen 
ranked first in all age 
categories in terms of the 
ale brand customers most 
want to see in their pub or 
on their supermarket shelf.
category, while it ranked first in all age 
categories in terms of the ale brand 
consumers most want to see in their 
pub or on their supermarket shelf. 
Greene King IPA outperformed a weak UK 
standard ale market. It is the UK’s No.1 cask 
ale brand, a truly national brand with top 
five market positions in nine UK regions. 
The official beer of England Rugby saw over 
2,000 on-trade outlets activating our rugby 
promotional activity. Installations of our 
innovative Revolution font are up almost 
70% to over 1,500 and we are targeting a 
further 1,000 this year. Revolution continues 
to deliver excellent rates of sale increases 
and strong returns. We invested £1.0m in 
launching our Proper Pint campaign and 
Very Special Greene King IPA won its first 
Monde gold award. 
We successfully completed the integration 
of Belhaven, while Belhaven Best, Scotland’s 
No.1 ale brand, grew again, with volumes up 
2.2%. We again came first in the DRAM 
awards for customer service in Scotland, 
including achieving 100% for delivery 
times, despite the particularly inclement 
weather. Belhaven Scottish Stout won a 
silver medal at the International Beer Awards, 
maintaining its record of winning an award 
every year since its launch. 
Brewing and Brands has an intense 
focus on product quality. We complete 
over 100 quality checks on each product 
batch, which includes the approval of an 
independent panel. No product leaves the 
brewery without meeting our exacting 
quality standards. We are currently awarded 
an A* by the British Retail Consortium for 
our quality and food safety standards and we 
have ISO9001 accreditation and Red Tractor 
status for all brands. We invested £80k in 
cellar upgrades in Local Pubs, delivering 
an average 12% cask ale volume uplift, 
while 3,000 employees have taken our 
new Cask Beer Masters course.
Brewing and Brands 
is the UK’s leading 
independent brewer 
with the best ale 
brand portfolio.
Old Speckled Hen 
was our biggest selling 
brand in the year.
Greene King IPA is 
the UK’s No. 1 cask 
ale brand. business review
20 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
outlook ‘‘ We remain confident 
of the prospects 
for Greene King 
with our Retail 
expansion strategy 
and strong group-wide 
operational performance. ’’
Current trading and outlook
Trading conditions in this calendar year 
have been variable and recently this has 
been even more pronounced. As we have 
previously reported, April was unusually 
strong. Consumers then reined in their 
expenditure in May. June has seen more 
normalised trading, notwithstanding the 
tough comparatives with last year’s 
World Cup. 
In the first eight weeks of our new financial 
year, Retail LFL sales growth is 1% with 
underlying LFL growth, excluding the impact 
of the World Cup, of 3%; Pub Partners average 
EBITDA per pub growth is 1% with LFL 
EBITDA at -1%; and core brand own-brewed 
volume in Brewing and Brands is -2%. 
We anticipate another challenging year as 
continued high inflation and the impact 
of government cutbacks limit consumer 
spending power. Despite this, we remain 
confident of the prospects for Greene King 
as our Retail expansion strategy and strong 
group-wide operational performance, 
driven by value, service and quality, will 
underpin another year of growth and 
significant progress.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
29 June 2011
Find out more 
greenekingreports.com/ 
ar11/ceo Business review
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 21
A year driven by 
value, service 
&quality
