 review of the year
4 Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 4 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk
chairman’s statement
Summary of 
Chairman’s statement
—  For the first time, our turnover 
for the year has topped the billion 
pound mark.
—  The total dividend payment for 
the year will be 23.1p, up 7 .4% 
on last year.
—  We acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants 
and Realpubs during the year as part 
of our retail expansion strategy.
Results
We have had a very successful year with 
record results and strong growth across 
the business. For the first time, our turnover 
for the year has topped the billion pound 
mark at £1,042.7m, up 6.0% on last year, 
with operating profit up 5.1% to £222.0m*. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items also 
reached a record level, up 13.8% on last year 
to £140.0m, with earnings per share up 
11.1% to 48.2p. 
Dividend
As a result of the company’s strong 
earnings growth and cash generation, 
the board is able to recommend a final 
dividend payment of 16.8p per share. 
This will take the total dividend payment 
for the year to 23.1p per share, up 7 .4% on 
last year. The final dividend is expected 
to be paid on 12 September 2011 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 12 August 2011. 
Acquisitions 
The company’s strategy is focused on 
driving long-term growth and profitability 
by expanding and continuing to improve the 
quality of the Retail estate. In line with this 
strategy, in January we acquired Cloverleaf 
Restaurants for £55.7m. At the time, Cloverleaf 
had eleven food-led sites trading in the 
North of England and the Midlands. We have 
since opened a twelfth site and have a healthy 
pipeline of further sites.
*  As throughout this document, profit figures are 
shown before exceptional items.
Then, in April, we acquired Realpubs for 
£52.2m. This group comprised 14 premium 
local pubs in London. We also acquired a 
further 13 sites for £22.8m and exchanged 
on eight greenfield sites. 
Disposals
During the year, we disposed of 108 
non-core pubs and other properties for 
£27 .8m, ahead of book value. 
Board
In March, we bid farewell to Jane Scriven, who 
had served on our board as a non-executive 
director for six years. I express my thanks to 
her for the sound and reliable contribution she 
made at board and committee meetings over 
that time. We wish Jane well in the future.
I would also like to thank Ian Bull, our 
group finance director for the last five years, 
who is leaving us at the end of June. He has 
played a most important role in driving our 
performance and continued success and he 
leaves us in a strong position, both financially 
and operationally, with our best wishes for 
the future. 
We have appointed Matthew Fearn as group 
finance director to replace Ian and he will 
be joining us at the beginning of September. 
£55.7m
Acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants
At the time of acquisition, Cloverleaf had eleven 
food-led sites trading in the North of England and 
the Midlands. We have since opened a twelfth site 
and have a healthy pipeline of further sites. Review of the year
Greene King plc   Annual Report 2011 www.greeneking.co.uk 5 www.greeneking.co.uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 5
We operate, rent and lease 
pubs and restaurants 
throughout England, 
Wales and Scotland.
With our base in Suffolk, we serve over 1,800 
communities throughout mainland Britain. 
Our place at the heart of those communities 
is as important to us as our reputation 
with our shareholders for consistently 
delivering industry-leading results.
northern scotland
3%
central scotland
10%
borders 1%
north east 2% lancashire 4%
yorkshire 5%
midlands 17%
east 23%
wales and west 3%
london 19%
south 12%
south west
1%
People
I would like to welcome all those who 
have joined us during the year, not least 
those who were working in the businesses 
we have acquired. We look forward to 
benefiting from the skills they bring and 
wish them every success with the company.
May I also extend my thanks to everyone 
at Greene King for the important part 
they have played, and continue to play, in 
helping us to deliver these record results, 
particularly given the challenging conditions 
that we face. We have a strong team and we 
want to be the best.
Tim Bridge
Chairman
29 June 2011 
£52.2m
Acquired Realpubs
This group comprised 14 premium local pubs in 
London. We also acquired a further 13 sites for 
£22.8m and exchanged on eight greenfield sites.
