 Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC www.greeneking.co.uk
5
Chairman’s statement
ANOTHER 
SUCCESSFUL YEAR
“ On the back of our strong growth, 
we are recommending a final dividend 
of 19.45p per share, up 7.5%.”
Results
We have achieved another set of record 
results, despite the difficult weather 
conditions in the second half of the year. 
Revenue was £1,194.7m, up 4.8%, and 
operating profit before exceptionals was 
£248.2m, up 5.1%. Profit before tax and 
exceptional items was £162.0m, up 6.6%, 
while adjusted earnings per share was 
57.0p, up 7.5%.
Dividend
On the back of these record results and 
strong growth, the board has recommended 
a final dividend of 19.45p per share, up 7.5% 
on last year. This takes the total dividend 
for the year to 26.6p per share, up 7.3%. 
The final dividend is expected to be paid 
on 9 September 2013 to those shareholders 
on the register at the close of business 
on 9 August 2013.
Acquisitions
In the year, we have made further progress 
with the expansion of our Retail business. 
We spent £35.3m on 24 new pubs and have 
exchanged or completed on a further 30 sites 
for development.
Disposals
We also remain focused on disposing of sites 
that we consider no longer have a long-term 
sustainable future within our estate. 
These mainly come from Pub Partners, 
from which we disposed of 103 sites in the 
year. In total, the disposed properties 
raised proceeds of £28.0m.
Board
At the end of December, we bade farewell 
to Norman Murray, who served on our board 
as a non-executive director for nine years, 
and acted as chairman of both the audit and 
the remuneration committees during that 
time. I would like to express my sincere 
thanks to him for the substantial contribution 
he made to the board and wish him well for 
the future. 
In October, we welcomed Lynne Weedall 
to our board as a non-executive director 
and member of the remuneration committee. 
She has subsequently become chairman of 
that committee. She is the HR and strategy 
director at Carphone Warehouse and we 
expect her business background to be a 
great asset to us.
Governance
The board continues to set itself high 
standards of corporate governance, 
supported by its nomination, remuneration 
and audit committees. The corporate 
governance section in this report shows 
details of our compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and our 
directors’ remuneration report incorporates 
a number of additional disclosures 
consistent with the government’s proposed 
new regulations on remuneration reporting. 
These regulations will apply to the company 
next year.
People
Our consistent growth and success could 
not have been achieved without the hard 
work and efforts of our 22,000 employees 
across the business. They combine to make 
Greene King the company that it is and 
deliver the greatest source of competitive 
advantage for our shareholders, particularly 
in such a demanding trading environment. 
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks 
to every one of our team for their personal 
and collective contribution. Looking ahead, 
we do not expect short-term conditions to 
improve but I am confident that the team 
at Greene King will continue to drive the 
business forward and deliver further success.
Tim Bridge
Chairman
26 June 2013
