 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.greeneking.co.uk
2
REVIEW o F THE YEAR
At a glance 
We are the leading pub retailer and brewer in the UK, focused on 
delivering the best value, service and quality to all our customers.
Our business
Greene King is the leading pub retailer 
and brewer in the UK.
Our strategy
Our overall objective is to be considered 
the best pubs and beer business in the UK.
 Mo RE ABo UT o UR BUSINESS
pages 6 and 7
 Mo RE ABo UT o UR STRATEGY
pages 12 and 13
2,000+
We run 2,250 managed and 
tenanted pubs, restaurants 
and hotels
200+
We have been brewing 
award-winning ales for 
more than 200 years
Greene King is made up of three main businesses:
•	 Our Retail business comprises the pubs, restaurants 
and hotels that we manage across the UK.
•	 Our Pub Partners business offers people the 
opportunity to run their own pubs across the UK 
on a tenanted, leased or franchised basis.
•	 Our Brewing & Brands business operates breweries 
in Bury St Edmunds and in Dunbar. 
•	 We employ around 22,000 people across the UK, 
and we have 2,500 apprentices working at Greene King.
•	 Operationally our strategy is to deliver outstanding 
value, exceptional service and unbeatable quality across 
all of our businesses.
Our strategy to drive growth and returns 
to our shareholders has three main elements:
•	 Expand our biggest and fastest growing business, 
Retail, to 1,100 sites and at the same time increase 
the overall quality of the estate by increasing our 
exposure to long-term growth categories such as 
food, wine and coffee.
•	 Reduce the size of our tenanted estate to 1,200 while 
taking more control over the licensee offer and 
introducing innovative agreements into the estate.
•	 Deliver long-term market out-performance through 
industry-leading investment and innovation in our 
core ale brand portfolio. Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC www.greeneking.co.uk
3
Our brands
We have a number of well-known pub 
and restaurant brands and ales. 
Our markets
We compete in the drinking out, eating 
out and staying out markets in the UK.
Mo RE ABo UT o UR MARKETS
pages 8 and 9
 o PERATIo NAL REVIEW
pages 14 to 24
No.1
We brew the UK’s no. 1 
premium ale and Scotland’s 
leading ale brand 
200+
There are now over 
200 Hungry Horse 
pub restaurants across 
the country
•	 We also operate unbranded local pubs, ranging from 
sport led local pubs to those that offer a more premium 
pub dining experience.
In each market, we have again outperformed 
the overall market over the last 12 months:
•	 Food sales growth of 9.7% against the market up 1.6%.
•	 Drink sales growth of 6.7% against the market up 1.3%.
•	 Our accommodation business delivered RevPAR 
growth of 2.0% against the market down 0.5%.
Our range of pub, restaurant and ale brands 
includes the following:
•	 Popular national pub restaurant and restaurant 
brands such as Hungry Horse and Loch Fyne 
Restaurants.
•	 A range of historic coaching inns, elegant country 
houses and old timbered buildings which form part 
of our Old English Inns hotels.
•	 Well-known ale brands such as Greene King IPA, 
Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale, as well as 
Belhaven Best in Scotland.
•	 This has been achieved in another difficult trading 
environment, with consumer confidence low and 
volatile and limited or no real household disposable 
income growth.
•	 And although the government scrapped the beer duty 
escalator in the budget, the industry remains a heavily 
regulated one with the latest government consultation 
on the proposed statutory code for tenanted pub companies 
potentially bringing significant changes to the industry.
