 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.greeneking.co.uk
10
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief executive’s review 
ANOTHER 
STRONG YEAR
“ The robustness of our business and our proven 
strategy ensured we delivered further strong 
growth and record results for our shareholders.”
Performance summary
It has been another strong year for Greene 
King, delivering record results for our 
shareholders. This was led by a successful 
trading performance from our largest and 
fastest growing business, Greene King Retail, 
achieving 12.1% operating profit growth:
 • Group revenue was £1,194.7m, up 4.8%.
 • Operating profit before exceptional items 
was up 5.1% at £248.2m.
 • The operating margin was up ten basis 
points to 20.8%, despite the business 
mix change.
 • Profit before tax and exceptional items 
was £162.0m, up 6.6%. 
 • Adjusted earnings per share grew 7.5% 
to 57.0p.
 • The board has recommended a final 
dividend of 19.45p per share, up 7.5%.
 • ROCE improved a further 40 basis points 
to 8.9%. 
Even though we experienced a long, cold 
and wet winter, the robustness of our business 
and our proven strategy ensured we delivered 
further strong growth in revenue, up 4.8%, with 
Retail leading the way with growth of 7.4%. 
We continue to focus on providing our 
customers with the best value, service and 
quality across our three main markets of 
eating out, drinking out and staying out. 
This helped us deliver like-for-like (LFL) 
sales growth of 2.3% in Retail, split 4.3% 
growth in the first half and 0.6% growth in 
the second half (reflecting the more difficult 
trading conditions experienced after the 
New Year). This underlying growth was 
supported by another positive contribution 
from new sites. Retail now generates over 
72% of group revenue.
Further productivity improvements in labour, 
tight cost control and acquisition synergy 
benefits drove strong margin growth in 
Retail, which more than offset the negative 
impact of our changing business mix on the 
group operating margin. Operating profit 
before exceptional items grew 5.1%.
Our strong performance delivered adjusted 
earnings per share growth of 7.5% and 
dividend growth of 7.3% for our shareholders 
in the third year of our retail expansion plan. 
The impact of estate changes, growing the size 
and quality of our retail estate and reducing 
the size, while improving the quality, of our 
tenanted and leased estate, has driven further 
improvements in our ROCE. In the year, 
ROCE rose 40 basis points (bps) to 8.9%, 
ahead of our cost of capital. 
We made substantial financial progress in 
the year helping to further strengthen our 
balance sheet and financial resilience. After 
the year end, we refinanced our revolving 
credit facility, using an additional £60m to 
buy back our AB1 bonds ahead of their step-up, 
and we completed the latest triennial pension 
review, leading to a lower annual cash 
funding requirement.
This was the first year of our three year 
partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support 
to raise £1m. It has been successful so far, 
raising £300,000 in the first year, including 
raising £100,000 for the ‘World’s Biggest 
Coffee Morning’.
Overview
Our strong performance and record results 
were delivered in another year of tough 
economic conditions, a generally difficult 
regulatory environment, highly competitive 
markets and constantly shifting consumer 
trends. We also had to deal with a year of 
unprecedented weather, particularly in some 
of our most important trading months. Both 
June and July were abnormally wet, while 
October and March were abnormally cold. 
While we hope for better weather in the 
new financial year, we do not expect 
to see material change in the economic 
or political environment.  Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC www.greeneking.co.uk
11
Economic conditions through the year 
remained subdued. After five years, we have 
still not returned to the real GDP levels of 
2007, before the economic slump began. 
Numerous key measures, such as house prices, 
consumer confidence and household earnings 
are sluggish, although there is a degree of 
resilience to the employment market.
From a regulatory perspective, there are 
three key issues facing the industry:
1.  Beer Duty. The scrapping of the beer 
duty escalator was a welcome move and 
we are hopeful of additional duty reform 
going forward. 
2.  Statutory Code. We believe the proposal 
for a statutory code to govern the 
relationship between pub companies and 
licensees is unnecessary. We have fully 
participated in the consultation process 
and have argued for more time to be 
given to the current, legally-binding, 
self-regulatory code to prove its worth, 
particularly for brewery-tied tenanted 
operators like Greene King.
3.  Minimum Unit Pricing. We remain 
supporters of a minimum unit price 
(MUP) for alcohol. We believe it would 
help to reduce the costs to society of 
irresponsible retailing and consumption 
of alcohol, although we do not expect 
legislation on MUP in this parliament. 
We primarily operate in three UK markets: 
informal eating out, worth £54bn*, drinking 
out, worth £22bn** and staying out, worth 
£27bn***. These are large, profitable and 
fragmented markets with long-term growth 
potential and opportunities for us to grow 
market share. Our focus on delivering industry 
leading value, service and quality, providing 
‘affordable treats’ to customers, combined 
with accelerating offer innovation, gives us 
a significant competitive advantage. It ensures 
we optimise the opportunities within each 
market, particularly in accessible growth 
segments and occasions such as breakfasts 
and takeaways in eating out, the trend towards 
premiumisation in drinking out and pub 
accommodation within staying out. 
We can also deliver competitive advantage 
through improved understanding of 
consumers and their evolving preferences. 
We anticipate trends such as health, 
convenience and customisation to grow 
in importance over the next few years and 
we are positioning our offers accordingly. 
Improving customer information and insight 
is therefore crucial to delivering sustainable 
sector-leading growth and margins. As a 
result, we made further investment in our 
digital platform and customer insight, 
covering areas such as targeted voucher 
offers, maintaining a regular dialogue 
with customers through social media 
and facilitating online table reservations. 
* Allegra Eating Out Report 2013.
** CGA Brand Index.
***  Eurostat, PWC, Allegra, Company.
Strategic progress
We are three years into our five-year strategy 
to improve growth and returns to shareholders 
through increasing our exposure to more 
attractive categories in our markets. We made 
further progress in all areas as we continue to 
invest in a successful future for Greene King:
1.  Expanding Retail to 1,100 sites and 
improving estate quality. We acquired 
or transferred in 38 sites to take the estate 
to 987 pubs, restaurants and hotels. 
Of the 38 sites, 15 were new Hungry Horse 
openings and 11 were Meet & Eat transfers. 
We opened our 200th Hungry Horse just 
after the year end. Since we began our 
strategy, the acquired sites have delivered 
an average site EBITDA ROI of 15.0%. 
2.  Reducing the Pub Partners estate, 
improving estate quality and increasing 
our offer influence. In Pub Partners, 
we disposed of 103 non-core sites and 
transferred 14 sites to Retail. Average 
EBITDA per pub grew 4.2% and there 
were 38 franchise and franchise-style 
sites at the year end. There are 331 sites, 
or 26% of the Pub Partners estate, under 
central offer influence. 
3.  Maintain industry-leading brand 
investment to strengthen leadership 
position. We again invested in our 
core ale brands to drive core own brewed 
volume (OBV) growth and UK ale market 
outperformance in Brewing & Brands. 
We relaunched TV advertising for Greene 
King IPA, Old Speckled Hen and Belhaven 
Best and our investment took a 45%* share 
of all ale media spend in the year. 
* Nielsen MAT to 31 March 2013.
Current trading and outlook
In the first eight weeks of the new financial 
year, we have delivered another strong trading 
performance, against tough comparatives 
with last year, which benefited from the 
Jubilee and Euro 2012. LFL sales in Retail 
were up 3.3%, helped by improved weather 
on both Bank Holiday weekends. Both food 
LFL sales and room LFL sales have been 
particularly strong. Average EBITDA in 
Pub Partners was up 5.1% and core OBV 
in Brewing & Brands was up 1.5%, taking 
further market share and continuing the 
momentum from the second half of the 
previous financial year. 
Although we have made a strong start, the 
overall outlook remains subdued and we are 
not assuming a pick-up in the economy this 
year. However, our strategy is designed, and 
proven to be appropriate, for these conditions 
as we shift our business towards higher 
growth areas of our markets and constantly 
improve our customer offer. We are confident 
of maintaining this momentum and delivering 
further value to our shareholders.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive officer
26 June 2013 
