 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC www.greeneking.co.uk 5
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Results
We have delivered a strong financial result 
for the year, achieving record sales and profit. 
In a 53 week year, our revenue was up 8.9% 
to £1,301.6m and our operating profit before 
exceptional items was up 7.0% to £265.6m. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items was 
up 9.4% to £173.1m, while adjusted earnings 
per share were up 10.4% to 61.4p. 
Dividend
As a result of another year of strong growth, 
the board has recommended a final dividend 
of 20.8p per share, up 6.9% on last year. 
This takes the total dividend for the year to 
28.4p per share, up 6.8%. The final dividend 
is expected to be paid on 15 September 2014 
to those shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 15 August 2014.
Acquisitions
We continued to expand, and improve the 
overall quality of, our Retail business. We 
added 48 sites to our Retail estate through 
a combination of acquisitions and transfers 
from Pub Partners. The total cost of acquiring 
sites during the year was £24.3m. At the 
year end, we had a Retail estate of 1,032 sites, 
up from 888 sites when we started our 
Retail expansion strategy in 2009.
Disposals
We made further, significant progress on 
our non-core disposal plan in the year, selling, 
or transferring to Retail, 148 sites, taking 
the Pub Partners estate down to 1,165 sites, 
below what had been our strategic target of 
1,200 sites. The total proceeds raised from 
disposals in the year were £38.4m, in line 
with book value. Since the year end, we 
have sold 275 non-core Pub Partners’ pubs 
to Hawthorn Leisure, backed by May Capital, 
for £75.6m. 
Board
In March, Matthew Fearn, our group 
finance director, began a period of extended 
absence due to serious illness. He has been 
undergoing treatment and we are hopeful 
that he can make a full recovery. While 
Matthew is away, we have appointed David 
Brown, our corporate finance director, to 
fulfil the role of interim group finance director. 
In this role, David is attending all our board 
meetings, but is not a main board director.
At the end of July, we will be saying goodbye 
from our board to John Brady. He will have 
served for nine years, during which time he 
has been a member of all three of the board 
committees. I would like to thank John for 
the contribution he has made through his 
independent views and valuable insight 
and we wish him well in the future.
People
We now have 23,000 people working for 
Greene King and every one of them has 
contributed to our success this year. The 
dedication that they show on a daily basis, 
particularly when interacting directly 
with our customers, is a key driver of our 
long-term record of growth. 
I would like to express my thanks to all of 
them for the work they have done during 
the year in helping us to deliver these strong 
results. Going forward, they will remain 
crucial to further success as we remain 
focused on delivering sustainable value 
creation for our shareholders. 
Tim Bridge
Chairman
2 July 2014
The total dividend for the year will be 
28.4p per share, up 6.8%, maintaining our 
long-term track record of dividend growth.”
RECORD RESULTS
“
