 Strategic report
GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.greeneking.co.uk 12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
ANOTHER  
SUCCESSFUL YEAR
Performance summary
It has been another successful year for 
Greene King with record sales and profits. 
In a 53 week year, we achieved profit growth 
of 11.9% in our key Retail business, further 
profit per pub growth in Pub Partners and 
a return to growth, on the back of market 
outperformance, at Brewing & Brands. We 
also made good strategic progress across the 
business, culminating in the announcement, 
at the end of the year, of the disposal of 275 
non-core sites from Pub Partners. 
Strong group revenue growth of 6.9%* was 
driven by a combination of Retail like-for-like 
(LFL) sales growth of 4.1%, supplemented 
by the positive impact of acquisitions and 
transfers during the year, and a contribution 
from the strong volume growth in Brewing 
& Brands. Staying close to our customers 
and meeting their needs through industry-
leading value, service and quality are key to 
our continued LFL sales growth and in the 
year this approach drove LFL sales growth 
across all three of our markets – eating out, 
drinking out and staying out. Most months 
of the year also delivered strong LFL sales 
growth, although customers spent less in 
September after their summer spending, while 
February was held back by record rainfall. 
Our revenue growth converted into operating 
profit growth of 5.0% at a slightly lower margin 
due to the impact of the changing channel mix 
as Retail grows its share of revenue, now at 
74%, up from 72% last year, while Pub Partners 
becomes a smaller part of the business. 
Encouragingly, despite the continued pressure 
on margins from input costs, we managed 
to expand the Retail margin by ten basis 
points (bps). 
Our strong operational performance led to 
profit before tax and exceptionals (PBTE) 
growth of 7.4%, adjusted earnings per share 
growth of 8.3%, free cash flow generation, 
after capital expenditure and dividends, 
of £67.9m and a 30bps increase in our 
return on capital employed (ROCE) to 
9.2%, comfortably above our cost of capital. 
These strong financial metrics gave the 
board the confidence to announce a dividend 
per share increase of 6.8%, maintaining our 
long-term track record of dividend growth. 
Looking forward, while the impact of 
selling a significant number of non-core 
pubs will slow growth in the new financial 
year, a combination of an improving external 
environment, maintained sales momentum in 
Retail and the continuation of our successful 
Retail expansion programme should deliver 
strong and sustainable earnings and dividend 
growth for our shareholders.
*  Unless otherwise stated, all numbers in this 
review are based on a 52 week year.
Strategic progress
We have now completed four years of our 
current five-year strategic plan to improve 
growth and returns to our shareholders. 
During the year we made further 
significant progress:
1.  Expanding Retail to 1,100 sites and 
improving estate quality. We acquired 
or transferred in 48 sites to take the 
estate to 1,032 pubs, restaurants and 
hotels. The average weekly take (AWT) 
of the acquired or transferred sites was 
£30k, 68% above the existing estate 
average. Of these additional sites, 21 were 
“
We achieved record sales and profits during 
the year and also made good strategic 
progress across the business.”
Operating profit before exceptional  
items was up:
5.0%
Group revenue was:
£1,301.6m
Adjusted earnings per share grew:
8.3%
Profit before tax was:
 £1 7 3.1 m Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC www.greeneking.co.uk 13
Hungry Horse sites, six were Old English 
Inns (OEI) and five were Metropolitan 
sites. We remain on track to reach 1,100 
sites by the end of the five-year plan. 
2.  Reducing the Pub Partners estate, 
improving estate quality and 
maintaining our offer influence. 
Against an initial target of 1,200 sites, 
we reached an estate of 1,165 by the year 
end following the disposal of 133 non-core 
sites and the transfer of 15 sites to Retail. 
This helped to drive average EBITDA* 
per pub up 5.3%. Just after the year end, 
we completed the sale of a further 275 
non-core sites.
3.  Maintaining industry-leading brand 
investment to strengthen our leadership 
position. We again invested in our 
core ale brands to drive own-brewed 
volume (OBV) growth and UK ale market 
outperformance in Brewing & Brands. 
We increased our volume share of the UK 
ale market by 70bps to 11.3%**. We also 
invested £750k in the St Edmund Brewhouse 
to supplement our core brands with a 
range of innovative ale brands to further 
meet the growing consumer demand for 
choice, provenance and quality.
*  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and exceptional items.
**  CGA Brand Index MAT to 19 April 2014, 
Nielsen Scantrack MAT to 24 May 2014.
Strategy update
As we near the end of our current five-year 
plan and given the pace of change in consumer 
behaviour, we are evolving a new five-year 
plan to take us to 2020, building on the 
progress we have made so far. 
We have taken steps already to get even 
closer to our customers and to understand 
their behaviour. For example, we increased 
investment in our digital platform and we 
launched the Greene King Leisure Spend 
Tracker during the year, reporting monthly 
GB household spending on eating out, 
drinking out and other leisure activities. 
Customer behaviour is increasingly 
dynamic, presenting constant challenges to 
the industry. Consumers are going out less 
but when they do they are demanding more 
choice and more control over what they eat 
and drink. Increasingly, they also like to 
treat themselves to more premium products. 
We responded to these trends by broadening 
our offering in key drinks categories such 
as premium lager, craft ale, wine and cider, 
and by offering increased customisation 
on our menus. 
Customers are also demanding higher 
quality, more healthy options and better 
consistency in what they eat and drink. We 
carried out two benchmarking exercises on 
key menu items to ensure we stay ahead of 
our competitors. As a result, we redesigned 
our burger offer, upgraded the quality of our 
steaks and added a number of healthier dishes 
to our menus. Importantly, we continue to 
win awards for the quality of our fish and 
chips, still our customers’ favourite dish. 
People are still looking for value and we 
saw an increase in the share of our sales from 
promotional activity, especially in food. In 
Loch Fyne Seafood & Grill, we increased 
communication of our offers through electronic 
direct mailing to our extensive customer 
database, while across Retail we broadened 
the number of sites with known value item 
pricing on lager.
In addition to addressing current trends, 
we have been working closely with the 
Trajectory Partnership, a leading consumer 
insight and futures consultancy, to analyse 
and identify forthcoming consumer trends 
in order to get a clearer understanding of 
how eating out and drinking out might 
change between now and 2025. 
The main trends we have identified include: 
1. ‘ Vertical families’ – indicates the 
rising importance of inter-generational 
leisure occasions. 
2. ‘ Digitalisation of leisure’ – the increase in 
use of and access to technology in leisure.
3. ‘ Value hunters’ – demonstrates that cost 
of living is likely to remain a central 
consumer issue.
4. ‘ Deregulation of life’ – where different 
activities are less associated with specific 
times of day. 
The implications of these trends for our 
business are significant and include the 
need to:
 – develop sites and offers that cater for 
different generations at the same occasions;
 – continue investing in our digital platform 
and our colleague training programmes 
to meet the challenges of a more demanding 
consumer, providing instant feedback 
to other customers;
 – maintain focus on delivering great value 
for our customers, even as the economy 
improves; and
 – make our sites more convenient for our 
customers by increasing the occasions they 
use our pubs by expanding our daytime 
offer and becoming less reliant on ‘traditional’ 
pub eating and drinking occasions.
Using the analysis of current and future 
consumer trends, we will evolve the current 
strategy to accelerate our Retail expansion 
and to move beyond conventional pub offers. 
Specifically, our future strategy will focus 
on six key elements:
1.  Open a minimum of 30 new Retail sites 
per annum.
2.  Reposition and simplify the existing Retail 
estate to optimise growth and returns.
3.  Further improve value, service 
and quality to our customers.
4.  Investigate options to diversify the Retail 
offer, including potential acquisitions.
5. Reduce Pub Partners to 750 sites.
6.  Maintain investment in Brewing & Brands 
to drive market outperformance.
Current trading and outlook 
After eight weeks of the new financial 
year, LFL sales in Retail were up 1.1%. 
This performance mirrors the trends seen 
in recent industry reports, including the 
latest Greene King Leisure Spend Tracker, 
which showed a softening in GB eating and 
drinking out from April to May. We have 
also seen regional differences in trading 
with LFL sales at Metropolitan, our 
premium London pubs, up 7.4%, and LFL 
sales overall in the south up, while LFL 
sales in the north are down.
We have seen strong starts to the year in 
our other businesses. LFL net income in our 
core Pub Partners estate was up 3.5%, with 
Brewing & Brands OBV, helped by strong 
Take Home sales due to the World Cup, 
up 6.2%.
Looking ahead to the rest of the year, we 
anticipate an improvement in LFL Retail 
sales and continued momentum in both Pub 
Partners and Brewing & Brands. We also 
expect to add 50 to 60 new Retail sites in 
the year. As a result, we are confident of 
achieving another year of strong progress. 
Rooney Anand
Chief executive officer
2 July 2014
