 08 AllergyTherapeutics Annual Report 2010 Chairman’s
Statement
“The last twelve months has
seen AllergyTherapeutics
pass a significant milestone.
The Group is in a strong
financial position, now profit-
making and with a transformed
balance sheet. Operationally
the Group is stronger, not only
in the targeted sales and marketing
areas but also across the board in
manufacturing and regulatory
activities. I am proud of all that
we have achieved and that our
people have not only risen to their
many challenges but identified
the opportunities contained
within them. ”
Chairman’s
Statement
09 Our Business – Chairman’s Statement www.allergytherapeutics.com 10 AllergyTherapeutics Annual Report 2010 Our Business – Chairman’s Statement www.allergytherapeutics.com
I am very pleased to report that in the
financial year ended 30 June 2010,
AllergyTherapeutics has delivered against
its strategy: for the first time as a public
company it is now profitable, both at
the operating and profit after tax levels.
This has been achieved by investing in our
European sales and marketing operations
whilst improving the efficiency of the cost
base. Immediately after the year-end the
European commercial infrastructure was
further strengthened by the acquisition
ofTeomed AG in Switzerland.
It was vital for the Group’s success that
it should achieve operating profitability.
A £6.6m turnaround from an operating
loss of £5.1m in the previous year to
an operating profit this year of £1.5m
is a tremendous achievement. Allergy
Therapeutics is now one of few in its
life sciences peer-group to be able to
claim to be a profitable company. It is a
milestone and I would like to thank each
and every one of our employees for their
efforts in helping to make this happen.
It also merits highlighting that our
manufacturing and supply operations
delivered considerable cost reductions
and efficiencies whilst maintaining its
excellent service to our customers with
continued compliance and quality.
Investment continues in improved
methods and equipment both to reduce
risk and further improve future margins.
On 1 July 2010 we announced the
acquisition ofTeomed AG, a Swiss
speciality distribution company.
Teomed is the first acquisition following
the increased emphasis in the Group’s
strategy towards strengthening its
European market position and will
provide additional revenue growth and
an opportunity to improve earnings.
Chairman’s Statement
”AllergyTherapeutics is now one of
few in its life sciences peer-group to be
able to claim to be a profitable company. ” 11 AllergyTherapeutics Annual Report 2010 Our Business – Chairman’s Statement www.allergytherapeutics.com
The Group raised £25.7m in the year
from its shareholders. £20.3m was
raised from shareholders in July 2009,
with a cornerstone investment from
theWeinstein family, whose interests in
pharmaceuticals span over 20 countries
from their South American base. A further
£3.4m was received from the exercise of
warrants by theWeinstein family and a
further £2.0m fundraising in March.
We thank all our shareholders, new and old,
for their support.The refinancing in July
2009 enabled the Group to make a £9.4m
repayment of debt to RBS and resulted
in a revision of the loan facilities terms.
As a consequence of the financing there
were changes to the board. Keith Carter
agreed to step down as CEO in September
2009 to allow Manuel Llobet, a highly
experienced executive from theWeinstein
family pharmaceutical businesses, to take
over the role. AlejandroWeinstein joined
the board as non-executive director as the
senior representative of theWeinstein
family. As we progress during the next
year it is our aim to reduce the total size of
the board and appoint a new independent
non-executive director.
On the regulatory front, the submission
in March 2009 of Pollinex Quattro
Grass, our ultra-short course four
injection grass allergy vaccine, remains
under assessment by the Paul-Ehrlich
Institute in Germany. Marketing approval
is planned for Germany in early 2011
and subsequently elsewhere in Europe.
This will enable AllergyTherapeutics
to accelerate sales growth in its
current markets as well as entering
new European markets. Plans for the
submission of 10 further marketing
authorisations in Germany remain on
track to achieve the end of November
2010 deadline, ultimately strengthening
the Group’s position in its most
important market.
The last twelve months has seen Allergy
Therapeutics pass a significant milestone.
The Group is in a strong financial position,
now profit-making and with a transformed
balance sheet. Operationally the Group is
stronger, not only in the targeted sales and
marketing areas but also across the board
in manufacturing and regulatory activities.
I am proud of all that we have achieved
and that our people have not only risen to
their many challenges but identified the
opportunities contained within them.
Ignace Goethals
Chairman
17 September 2010
