 CEO’s Review
12 AllergyTherapeutics Annual Report 2010
“I am still as excited today by
the opportunities available to
AllergyTherapeutics as I was
the day I took over as CEO.
It is now a strong Group
operating in a dynamic market;
I believe that, thanks to a great
team, we will build on this
base and create significant
value for shareholders and
all stakeholders. ” CEO’s Review
13 Our Business – CEO’s Review www.allergytherapeutics.com 14 AllergyTherapeutics Annual Report 2010 Our Business – CEO’s Review www.allergytherapeutics.com
I have enjoyed my first year as CEO and
I am pleased that the Group is progressing
well and in line with its strategy. One of our
key ambitions for this year was for the Group
to make a profit and I am very pleased to
report that this has been achieved.
Operating profit for the year is £1.5m (2009:
loss £5.1m) and profit after tax for the year
is £0.6m (2009: loss £11.8m).
During the year, one of the key areas I
have focused on was sales and marketing,
with the aim of strengthening sales
performance in our markets.Total net sales
for the year are £40.8m, an increase over
the prior year by 8%; at a constant currency
the growth was 5%. In Germany, the Group’s
most important market, we have simplified
our portfolio in order to prepare the Group
for the new regulatory environment and,
despite the resulting reduction in the
number of products we offer, sales grew
by 5% at a constant currency.With the
restructuring of the sales and marketing
team now complete and an excellent
marketing campaign focusing on the
clinical benefits of Pollinex Quattro,
we are doing all of the right things to
improve sales in Germany further in the
future. Sales teams in other key markets
have also been reinforced and performance
in most markets has been good.
The Group has a broad product portfolio
that addresses the needs of the market:
injectable (both short and longer course),
oral and diagnostics.The flagship product
is Pollinex Quattro; an injectable short
course vaccine which requires only
4 injections over a period of 3 weeks.
Pollinex Quattro is currently sold across
a number of European countries on a
named patient basis. Completion of the
regulatory process outlined below will
open up new markets to Pollinex Quattro
and enable AllergyTherapeutics to
improve pricing and market share in
those countries where only named
patient sales are currently possible.
On the day after the year-end the Group
acquiredTeomed AG of Switzerland for
a consideration of CHF1.2m (£0.7m).
Teomed specialises in the field of allergy
and was the distributor for the Group’s
products and other companies’ products
in the Swiss market.Teomed was
established in 1989 and employs
12 people with an office in Zurich. In its
last full trading yearTeomed delivered
revenues of CHF3.1m (£1.9m) and made
a small operating profit. Following this
transaction AllergyTherapeutics will have
a direct sales and marketing presence
in 7 countries: Germany, Italy, Spain,
UK, Austria,The Netherlands and
Switzerland. The allergy vaccine market
in Switzerland is sophisticated and well
established, worth around€10-15 million
per annum.This is a great opportunity
to improve earnings and provides us
with an established infrastructure from
which to launch Pollinex Quattro in
the future.
The Group has also recently set up its
own operation in the Netherlands where
we expect to benefit not only from the
sales of our own products but also from
in-licensing complementary products
to those already in our portfolio.
Another significant focus for the Group
has been to improve its gross margin.
Naturally, increasing the top line helps
achieve this objective, but we have also
been engaged in improving our
manufacturing cost base.Through
improving efficiencies within the cost
base, focussing on the reduction of
waste and rationalising the portfolio,
the gross margin percent has improved
from 64% to 73%. In turn, improving
efficiency in the manufacturing plant
will release production capacity
permitting future growth without
adding resources.
CEO’s Review
“One of our key ambitions for this year
was for the Group to make a profit and
I am very pleased to report that this
has been achieved. ” 15 AllergyTherapeutics Annual Report 2010 Our Business – CEO’s Review www.allergytherapeutics.com
The year opened with the granting of two
key patents in Europe and Japan and then
later in the US for Pollinex Quattro but for
the majority of the year the R&D focus has
been on regulatory activities.TheTherapeutic
Allergen Regulation in Germany will change
the allergy vaccination sector and we have
made great progress to begin to meet the
challenge in the preparation of regulatory
dossiers for 10 products to be submitted in
November 2010. In Germany, the Pollinex
Quattro grass 0.5ml submission remains
under the review of the Paul-Ehrlich
Institute whilst further exciting data from
the G301 study emphatically confirms the
benefit of the product.The situation in the
US is still on hold although, following the
approval of GlaxoSmithKline plc’s (GSK)
Cervarix
®
(containing the same
monophosphoryl-lipid A (MPL)
®
adjuvant
as Pollinex Quattro), we have now
re-opened discussions with the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA).
Outlook
As a result of the new regulations in
Europe, a new global market of registered
allergy vaccine products is going to be
created. Immunotherapy is receiving
more attention and is the only segment of
the Allergic Rhinitis market that is expected
to show significant growth in the next few
years according to a recent Datamonitor
report.We are preparing the Group to
take advantage of this opportunity.
The first objective was to make the
Group profitable; this we have achieved.
Secondly, we have to strengthen our
position in Europe.This process is now
underway; restructuring of the German
operation is now complete, marketing
spend has been increased, a portfolio
strategy has been adopted and new market
operations have been set up in Switzerland
andThe Netherlands. Lastly we need to
prepare the Group to move into new
markets outside Europe and further
develop our portfolio of products.
We are very excited by the opportunities
we have in the dynamic marketplace,
we believe we can create value from it
and I am sure we will succeed thanks to
the great team we have.
The current economic climate may affect
certain markets: in reimbursed markets
there are pressures on authorities to lower
the cost of medicines for the state and
where products are not fully reimbursed
there is pressure on the patient’s pocket.
I am still as excited today by the
opportunities available to Allergy
Therapeutics as I was the day I took over
as CEO. It is now a strong Group operating
in a dynamic market; I believe that,
thanks to a great team, we will build on
this base and create significant value for
shareholders and all stakeholders.
Manuel Llobet
Chief Executive
17 September 2010
