 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 11 10
Introduction
It is a pleasure to present Greenko’s 
pr eliminar y	 unaudit ed	 financial	 r esults	
for the year ended 31 March 2013, 
our sixth year as a public company.  
W e	 demonstrat ed	 pr o fitable	 gr owth,	
with a 19.9% increase in EBITDA and 
continued to build a portfolio that 
establishes Greenko as a strong utility 
in the Indian energy market.  During 
the year, we agreed a £100 million 
investment into our ordinary equity 
with GIC.  This gives us the balance 
sheet strength to readily reach our 
2015 target of 1,000 MW and puts 
in place the foundations for growth 
beyond that.  Our total portfolio 
currently available to generate 
power is 309.2 MW, with a further 
51.2 MW completed and 446.2 MW 
under construction.  We expect to 
commission several projects in the 
coming months and substantially 
increase our generating portfolio.
Financial Review
For the full year, the Company’s 
revenue was €38.3 million (2012: €36.9 
million), with generation of 886.0 
GWh (2012: 769.8 GWh).  The Rupee’s 
depreciation against the Euro by 
appr o ximat ely	 6.4%	 ov er	 the	 financial	
year has again led to foreign currency 
translation differences in our accounts. 
Although generation increased 15.1%, 
reported revenue only increased 3.8%, 
due to a change in the generating mix 
and	 mor e	 significantly ,	 the	 w eakness	
of our functional currency (the Indian 
Rupee) relative to our reporting 
currency (the Euro).  On a constant 
currency basis, revenue would have 
increased by approximately 10.4% and 
adjusted EBITDA by 27.5%. 
Adjusted EBITDA, a key performance 
indicator for Greenko, increased 
19.9% to €32.8 million (2012: €27.3 
million), despite the adverse currency 
movements. 
We demonstrated profitable growth and continued 
to build a portfolio that establishes Greenko as a 
strong utility in the Indian energy market.
Anil Kumar Chalamalasetty CEO	&	MD
Chief Executive officer & 
Managing Director’s Statement
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 10
Summary
Adjusted EBITDA increased 
19.9% to €32.8 million 
Power assets grew 69.0% to 
€516.7 million
Invested €219.9 million in 
power assets 
Business Analysis Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 11 10
Adjust ed	 pr o fit	 befor e	 tax	 was	 down	
slightly at €12.0 million (2012: €13.9 
million) as EBITDA growth was offset 
by the depreciation and interest 
charges attributable to the 61 MW of 
hydropower  added during the year. 
This was exacerbated by the timing of 
the Sumez acquisition, which occurred 
towards the end of the northern 
generating season. Adjusted fully 
diluted EPS was 5.42 cents (2012: 6.37 
cents)	 r eflectin g	 the	 imp act	 o f	 the	
shares issued in June 2011 and June 
2012.
The adjusted EBITDA margin increased 
from 74.0% to 85.4% and was affected 
by a number of one offs.  The impact 
of the non-cash charge for the 2008 
LTIP (€4.0 million), reported in our 
interim results, was partly offset 
by the sale of an unused biomass 
project licence (€1.2 million) and 
compensation received by the AMR 
(24.75 MW) and Rithwick (24.75 MW) 
hydro plants for reduced generation 
due to water abstraction by the State 
(€1.8 million).  Underlying EBITDA (i.e. 
excluding share payments and the fair 
value adjustment) increased 18.4% 
to €25.3 million (2012: €21.4 million) 
on a reported basis and the margin 
increased to 65.9% (2012: 57.8%), while 
in constant currency terms underlying 
EBITDA would have increased 25.9% 
to approximately €26.9 million.
During	 the	 fina ncial	 y ear ,	 w e	 inv est ed	
€219.9 million in power assets through 
on-going construction activity and the 
hydropower acquisitions.  This resulted 
in a 69.0% increase in Plant, Property 
and Equipment and Intangible Assets 
to €516.7 million (2012: €305.8 
million).  Cash (including deposits) at 
the end of the year was €35.8 million 
(2012: €63.2 million) as planned 
construction activity and acquisitions 
were funded by a mix of debt and 
equity .	 	 In	 the	 y ear ,	 the	 final	 US$60	
million was drawn from the Standard 
Chartered and GE commitments. Total 
borrowing at the end of the year was 
€247.9 million (2012: €153.1 million) 
and Greenko currently has €205.6 
million of committed but undrawn 
debt facilities in place. 
Post the year-end, the £100 million 
equity investment was received as 
expected from GIC.
Market Environment and Group 
Strategy
The macro environment within India 
continues to support Greenko. Over 
a third of India’s population does 
not have access to power and the 
country’s GDP growth is still estimated 
to be in excess of 5% per annum. 
Given the continued population and 
GDP	 gr owth,	 a	 wider	 electrification	
programme and growing urbanisation, 
the country’s installed capacity is 
expected to reach 290 GW by 2017, 
from a current base of approximately 
205 GW. Therefore, with fossil fuel’s 
difficulty	 in	 deliv ering	 sufficient	 cost -
effective power capacity, Greenko 
remains well positioned to become a 
leading Indian power producer.
 
Our	 pr ojects	 benefit	 fr om	 long	 t er m	
power purchase agreements (“PPAs”) 
that are not available to conventional 
power producers, thereby enhancing 
the security and long-term visibility 
of our revenue. Most of our projects 
are registered under the Clean 
Development Mechanism (“CDM”) 
and provide the Group with Carbon 
Emission Reduction (“CER”) revenue.  
As disclosed last year, we are selling 
CERs on a consistent basis and, while 
carbon revenue enhances project 
pr o fitability ,	 our	 pr oject	 asses sments	
continue the existing prudent 
approach of excluding it from the 
fundamental economic analysis.  
There is a trend towards rising tariffs, 
supported by the Central Electricity 
Regulatory Commission guidelines.  
This	 is	 p ar ticularly	 beneficial	 in	 wind	
pow er ,	 wher e	 zone	 classification	 and	
general industry practices are used 
as a benchmark, which complements 
Greenko’s strategy of developing 
top-quartile projects. The Generation 
Based Incentive scheme, which 
provides an incremental incentive of 
INR 0.5/kWh was restarted in April 
2013 for new projects and should 
benefit	 all	 the	 wind	 cap acity	 w e	 expect	
to commission this year.  Recent tariff 
increases have meant our wind and 
hy dr o	 pr ojects	 can	 operat e	 pr o fitably	
at or below grid parity.  As a result, 
we are starting to develop PPAs with 
commercial off-takers, beginning with 
our 15 MW Matrix wind farm, which is 
expected to improve returns through 
a	 mix	 o f	 higher	 prices	 and	 inflation	
linking.
Greenko’s projects also have access to 
R enewable	 Ener gy	 Cer tificat es	 (“RECs”)	
where the generator sells the local 
component of electricity at market 
prices and trades the environmental 
attribute in the form of RECs separately 
through an established Power 
Exchange.  REC revenue was €1.6 
million in the year (2012: nil) from our 
tw o	 qualified	 pr ojects.	 	 Although	 REC	
revenue is expected to be substantial 
in	 the	 next	 four	 t o	 fiv e	 y ear s,	 b ased	 on	
the present renewable energy capacity 
shortfall, we are prudently limiting 
the number of projects exposed to 
the scheme until this new market’s 
teething problems have been resolved.
Operational and Development 
review
Greenko reports on its capacity 
as: operating assets, projects in-
construction and concessions under 
active development.  Together, 
these represent approximately 2.34 
GW .	 	 Behind	 this	 is	 a	 significant	
pipeline of potential development 
pr ojects,	 which	 ar e	 only	 classi fied	 as	
‘active development’ once the key 
concessions, resource assessment and 
agreements are in place.  Overall, we 
have today:
•	 Operational: 309.2 MW
•	 Completed/being commissioned: 
51.2 MW
•	 Under-construction: 446.2 MW
•	 Active development: 1,529.4 MW
We expect to complete construction 
of over 250 MW projects before 
the end of March 2014, and started 
construction on a further 179.5 MW of 
projects.
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 11 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 13 12
totalling 33.6 MW under construction. 
A new development concession (115 
MW) consisting of two cascading 
hydro projects in the Chamba District 
is due to begin site work later this year.  
These are near our existing projects 
and located on a tributary of the Ravi 
River, which has good hydrology data 
and relatively easy site access. 
 
Our largest hydro project under 
construction, Dikchu (96 MW) in Sikkim, 
remains on track for commissioning to 
start in late 2014-15. Key components 
of the project are progressing 
w ell,with	 the	 fir st	 Alsthom	 turb ine	 and	
its associated balance of plant on-site, 
along with initial deliveries for the 
second turbine. Project debt of INR 5.2 
billion is being provided by an IDBI led 
banking consortium.  
The	 Kar nataka	 clust er	 has	 fiv e	
operational run-of-river hydro projects 
totalling 94.25 MW. There are three 
projects, totalling 58 MW, that are 
under construction and that should 
be commissioned in 2014-15, all with 
key contracts in place and site work 
underway.
The Arunachal Pradesh projects 
form a new regional cluster and 
consist of four cascading run-of-river 
hydro projects. Arunachal is one of 
India’s most mountainous states 
and is substantially covered by the 
Himalayas. This region is one of the 
few areas remaining in India where 
large run-of-river projects are feasible, 
due to the steep topography and high 
quality hydrology. The projects are 
located on the perennial Yargyap Chu 
River (a tributary of the Tato River) 
in the West Siang District and have 
a catchment area of approximately 
839 sq km. The sites are particularly 
attractive, as they have good road 
access, reliable power evacuation and 
relatively little need for tunnelling.
Overall, we believe run-of-river hydro 
is the most attractive power asset in 
India today.  However, shareholders 
will only see the tangible delivery of 
our extensive work from next year, as 
projects start to commission. 
In the interim, we are continuing 
to assess several acquisition 
opportunities that are consistent with 
our strategy, although we will only 
proceed where an attractive return 
is achievable.  In the next eighteen 
months, our wind portfolio will show 
the most tangible growth, as we 
expect to commission a substantial 
number of projects.
Wind
Our wind strategy is based on 
extensive analysis aimed at delivering 
a	 r eliable	 long	 t er m	 generation	 pr o file,	
using validated wind data, robust 
project design and economic return 
hurdles.  Execution is differentiated 
from the broader Indian wind energy 
market by focusing on utility scale 
pr ojects	 that	 can	 be	 efficiently	 built	
in phases around core infrastructure.  
As previously announced, we have 
934.0 MW of wind assets in active 
development, plus three 100+ MW 
utility scale wind power projects that 
are in varying stages of construction.
Shortly after the year-end, we signed 
a turbine supply and construction 
agreement with Gamesa to support 
the build out of our wind portfolio.  This 
complements our existing GE turbine 
supply agreement, but provides useful 
t echnology	 div er sification	 and	 r educes	
the risk of supply constraint delays.  
The agreement is for the Gamesa G97-
2.0 MW IIIA turbine, with a binding 
obligation for 200 MW and an option 
for an additional 100 MW. The G97-2.0 
is a specialised 2 MW low wind speed 
turbine, with a hub height of 90m and 
rotor diameter of 97m.  The contract 
includes	 a	 tw o-y ear	 warrant y ,	 fiv e	
years’ operations and maintenance, 
a 100% power curve guarantee and 
attractive availability guarantees 
linked to the Indian wind season.  
This contract helps Greenko maintain 
its growth rate, while diversifying its 
technology and delivery risk.  An initial 
order of 100 MW was placed and the 
fir st	 G97	 equipment	 has	 arriv ed	 at	 	
Basavana Bagewadi Phase-2 (50.0 
MW). A second order is likely to be 
placed in the next few weeks, for 
Hydro
Greenko’s hydro portfolio is made 
up of run-of-river projects, grouped 
in four clusters.  The northern hydro 
portfolio has clusters in the states 
of Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and 
Arunachal Pradesh.  Our southern 
hydro portfolio has only one cluster, 
in Karnataka.  The southern cluster is 
made up of relatively large projects 
on rivers that are primarily monsoon 
dependent.  The northern hydro 
portfolio is all high-head projects that 
typically run for most of the year, due 
to hydrology based on snow melt, 
glacier melt and rainfall. Underpinning 
each cluster is a larger pipeline of 
active development project companies 
that are acquired once they have 
secured the key concessions, resource 
assessments and agreements.
During the year we added 61 MW of 
operating hydro assets in Himachal 
Pradesh and 425 MW of development 
assets in Himachal Pradesh and 
Arunachal Pradesh.  Today, we are 
one of the largest operators of sub-
100 MW hydro projects in India and 
will continue to add medium sized 
hydro projects to ensure portfolio risk 
is spread geographically and across 
technologies. The hydro portfolio 
now consists of 165.25 MW of 
operating assets and 187.6 MW under 
construction.
Greenko’s hydro portfolio performed 
well, with an average Plant Load 
Factor (“PLF”) of 34%. A very weak 
monsoon impacted the southern 
hydro projects, although the effect on 
the portfolio was offset by a strong 
performance from the northern hydro 
assets, which delivered an average 
PLF of 58% across the year, despite a 
number of projects still being in post-
commissioning stabilisation.  In the 
south, Jasper Power (Sonna) had a 
p ar ticularly	 poor	 y ear	 due	 t o	 difficult	
rainfall patterns linked to its position 
on an irrigation canal.
The Himachal cluster has 11 
operational run-of-river hydro projects 
totalling 71 MW and two projects, 
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 12 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 13 12
national IT Park via a 10-year PPA. 
The attractively priced ReGen 1.5 
MW V87 turbine is being used and 
all the turbines are on site.  Project 
commissioning is planned for the end 
of the 2013 wind season.  
Current regulatory uncertainty in 
Rajasthan means we have delayed our 
T anot-Jaisalmer (100 MW) and Devgarh 
(49.5 MW) projects until there is more 
clarity. Although we believe Rajasthan 
remains an attractive location, the 
strength of our development portfolio 
means we have the option to redeploy 
resources to more predictable near-
term opportunities.
Thermal projects
The 36.8 MW LVS gas plant continued 
t o	 generat e	 operating	 pr o fits	 under	
the contract’s quasi-tolling structure in 
line with expectations.  Our 58.4 MW 
Greenko Godavari gas plant remains 
delayed by the well-publicised 
uncertainty over output from the 
Reliance Krishna Godavari KG-D6 
basin. As a result, we have moved the 
project to the tail end of our active 
development pipeline, in order to free-
up management resources for projects 
with greater near term certainty.  We 
may revisit these timings when there is 
more certainty over the gas supply, as 
construction is relatively swift.
The Group’s 41.5 MW of biomass assets 
continued to perform below long-
term expectations, with individual 
operating PLFs ranging from 19.9% to 
80.4%. Whilst biomass power offers 
stable generation, it does not offer the 
scope for growth that can be achieved 
with our hydro or wind assets.  As 
such, we realised €1.2 million through 
the sale of an unused biomass project 
license and are currently evaluating 
all options to improve the return on 
capital from the existing operating 
assets.
Business Development
In addition to the 2.34 GW already 
secured, we have a large pipeline of 
potential opportunities. 
The Company’s infrastructure, brand 
and standing within the industry 
provide it with unrivalled access to deal 
flow .	 Gr eenk o	 will	 continue	 t o	 pur sue	
a dual strategy in hydro, assessing 
both potential acquisitions as well as 
new concession tenders. The Greenko 
team is currently analysing a number 
of assets, but will only take forward 
the most attractive opportunities.  
However, our growth plans are 
unchanged and continue to assume 
a preference for new concessions, 
particularly in the wind sector where 
our strategy is highly differentiated and 
focussed on maximising shareholders’ 
returns through high quality resource 
data and utility scale assets. 
“There can however be attractions 
in acquiring existing larger hydro 
operating assets which offer 
immediate returns, by comparison 
with the long construction period 
for new Hydro developments. This is 
significantly	 less	 significant	 for	 wind	
projects where construction periods 
are quite short, particularly where 
existing grid connections may already 
have been created for earlier phases 
of the wind farms”.
First quarter 2013-14 performance
In	 the	 fir st	 thr ee	 months	 o f	 our	 new	
financial	 y ear	 the	 ov erall	 por tfolio	
performed marginally ahead of 
management expectations.  Northern 
hydro achieved 89% of its budget, as 
a relatively harsh winter delayed the 
initial snowmelt, with approximately 
110.9 GWh generated.  However, 
generation in June was ahead of 
budget, as snowmelt picked up and 
the monsoon arrived early.  Southern 
hydro generated 118% of budget (18.8 
GWh), due to technical improvements 
at AMR and Rithwick that increased 
the projects’ net head, and the early 
monsoon.  Ratnagiri Phase-1 achieved 
good performance, with 25.8 GWh 
generated, or 132% of expectations, 
helped by the early monsoon.  Total 
thermal generation was equivalent 
to 79.6 GWh, which was in-line with 
management expectations, net of 
various planned shutdowns.  
delivery beforethe end of 2013. 
Phase-1 of our Ratnagiri Wind Farm 
(65.6 MW) in Maharashtra has been 
commissioned.  Phase-2 (36.0 MW) is 
on track to begin construction in late 
2013 and the order for the enhanced 
GE 1.6 XLE turbine has now been 
placed.  On past experience, the access 
roads are likely to require remediation 
after the monsoon, before we can 
reliably get the sixty-six 40.3m long 
blades to site.  This remediation takes 
only a matter of weeks, but can only 
start once the monsoon ends.    
Basavana Bagewadi Wind Farm 
(145.2 MW) is our second major wind 
project in construction.  This is in 
Karnataka and Phase-1 (51.2 MW) is 
fully completed using the GE 1.6 XLE 
turbine.  The electrical sub-station 
is currently being tested and delays 
with the transmission line mean that 
power sales will only begin in August.  
However, approval for total power 
evacuation from the project was 
increased from 101.2 MW to 145.2 
MW (158 MW including Matrix) and 
this capacity is included in the existing 
transmission line. Phase-2 (50.0 MW) 
will use the Gamesa G97-2.0 machine 
and should be commissioned in early 
2014. 
Our third major wind project is 
Balavenkatpuram
1
 Wind Farm (200.0 
MW) in Andhra Pradesh.  Phase-1 
(57.6 MW) will use the enhanced 
GE 1.6 XLE turbine, with full 
commissioning expected around the 
end of the 2013 monsoon. Phase-2 
(50.0 MW) will use the G97-2.0 turbine 
with commissioning in early 2014, 
and we are now moving Phase-3 
(50.0 MW) into construction.  Half the 
Phase-1 turbines are already up and 
the sub-station is two-thirds through 
construction.  Approved capacity was 
recently increased to 200 MW and 
we are starting the land acquisition 
process for this additional capacity.
Our fourth wind project, Matrix Wind 
Farm (15.0 MW – Karnataka), effectively 
extends our Basavana Bagewadi site, 
but sells its power directly to a multi-
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 13 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 15 14
While we cannot control wind or water 
flows,	 having	 the	 plant	 av ailable	 t o	
run when the resource is available is 
critical.	 In	 the	 fir st	 quar t er ,	 nor ther n	
hydro achieved 99.8% availability and 
southern hydro 99.9%. This means 
southern generating capacity was only
unavailable for less than two hours 
over a three-month period.  This was 
exceptionally good performance by 
the northern and southern hydro 
assets, and a testament to the teams 
running those projects. 
Outlook
The backdrop for power in India 
remains positive, as conventional 
power assets are struggling to supply 
power to the grid, due to fuel supply 
and off-take price issues. The grid 
parity achievement of the Group’s 
wind and hydro portfolio, coupled 
with increased demand, means that 
Greenko is well positioned to provide 
financially	attractiv e	r etur ns.
The Group enjoyed a successful 
twelve months in which we secured 
the	 fina nce	 t o	 deliv er	 our	 strat egy	
and	 a	 significan tly	 lar ger	 dev elopment	
pipeline.  Commissioning Ratnagiri 
was an important milestone, as wind 
power will accelerate our growth 
and	 cr eat e	 a	 div er sified	 generating	
portfolio that delivers strong returns 
to shareholders.  We are pleased 
with progress at our projects under 
construction, as these underpin the 
significant	 gr owth	 w e	 plan	 t o	 deliv er	
this year.
We strongly believe that Greenko’s 
div er sified	 por tfolio	 o f	 pr ojects,	
both operating and under active 
development, is the most attractive 
long-term power asset in the Indian 
market.  We are on track to meet our 
2015 target of 1,000 MW and there are 
considerable further opportunities to 
pr o fitably	 gr ow	 our	 business	 bey ond	
that.
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 14
Anil Kumar Chalamalasetty
Chief	Ex ecutiv e	o fficer	&	
Managing Director Hemavathy Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 15 14
Mahesh Kolli 
Founder, President & Joint Managing 
Director
As a co-founder of Greenko ,Mahesh 
has been on its Board from Oct 
2007. Mahesh is experienced in the 
Emissions trading markets and was co-
founder, with Anil Chalamalasetty, of 
Lytag Asia, an environmental solutions 
comp any	 focused	 on	 Co al	 Gasification	
and transforming waste from thermal 
power plants into light weight building 
products. Within Greenko, he is responsible for driving the 
vision, business development and new project initiatives of the 
Group.
Anil Kumar Chalamalasetty 
Founder, Chief Executive & Managing 
Director
Anil has  co-founded and developed 
Greenko with Mahesh Kolli in 2004 
and incorporated it in early 2006 and 
has been on the board since Oct 2007.
He was involved in evolving start-up 
businesses in Information Technology, 
Infrastructure and Environmental 
sectors in the UK and India . Anil 
is	 experienced	 in	 M&A ,	 transition	
and project management with a successful track record of 
managing operations involving large remote teams.He is 
responsible for effectively implementing the strategic business 
road map of Greenko Group.
Hari Kiran Vadlamani 
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Greenko Board on Oct 2007. Kiran is the 
CEO and Founder of Advaita Energy Partners Pte 
Ltd, a Singapore based investment management 
company in the energy sector. Prior to Advaita, Kiran 
was the co-founder of KSK Energy Ventures Pvt Ltd. 
(KSK) a project development and asset management 
company based in Hyderabad, India. KSK Power 
Ventur plc, the parent company of KSK, is listed on 
AIM, London. At KSK, apart from developing power 
plants he was in charge of “small is beautiful”, a 
private equity fund investing in the power sector. Before promoting KSK, he 
was a consultant working in energy and infrastructure projects.
Vinodka Murria 
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Board in March 2010. Vin is a partner 
at Elderstreet Investments and CEO of Advanced 
Computer Software Plc. Vin was also CEO of 
Computer Software Plc, which she took private in 
2007, merged with IRIS in 2007 and sold to the USA 
based private equity vehicle Hellman Friedman. 
Vin was the Chairman of Leeds Group Plc, NED at 
Concateno Plc. She has over 20 years of experience 
in the developing and building technology and high 
growth companies and extensive knowledge of UK 
corporat e	 gov er nance	 and	 M&A.	 Vin	 has	 w on	 the	 “ Asian	 Businessw oman	 o f	
the year” award in March 2010 and was also the recipient of “Asian Woman of 
Achievement Award” in May 2009.
John Leonard Rennocks 
Sr. Non-Executive Director
Joined the Board in April 2013. John has had a 
long and successful career with a range of public 
companies. He is a Chartered Accountant and spent 
much	 o f	 his	 early	 car eer	 at	 Smith	 &	 Nephew	 plc,	
where he served as Finance Director and Company 
Secr etar y .	 He	 subsequently	 became	 the	 fir st	 Finance	
Director of the publicly listed PowerGen plc, before 
assuming Executive Director Finance at British Steel 
plc and Corus plc. Since then, he has served on a 
wide range of public and private company boards in 
non-executive roles, either as Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and currently he is the Chairman of Diploma plc and Deputy Chairman of 
Inmar sat	 plc.	 He	 is	 also	 Chair man	 o f	 Bluefield	 Solar	 Income	 Fund	 L t d,	 a	 newly	
formed investor in large scale Solar projects in the UK.
Vasudeva Rao Kaipa 
Executive Director & Chief Financial 
Officer
Joined the Board in Feb 2012. Prior 
to Greenko , he  was an Executive 
Director for XL Energy Ltd (from 
2005)	 which	 has	 div er sified	 int er ests	
including	 significant	 solar	 pow er	
operations and organized its IPO to 
the Indian Stock Exchange in 2006. He 
also served on the Board of Directors 
of GSS America Infotech Ltd Software 
Services Company which he advised and helped organize its 
IPO and NEST Ltd.  Vasu also served as an Executive Director 
at Goldstone Technologies Ltd  and also worked for Kirloskar 
Electric,	in	a	number	o f	k ey	finance	r oles.
Greenko Group plc Annual Report 2013 15
Dikchu HEP
Board of Directors as of 1
st
 April 2013
Keith Nicholas Henry 
Non-Executive Chairman
Joined the Board in Aug 2012 and 
became Chairman in April 2013. Mr. 
Henry is currently Chairman of Regal 
Petroleum Plc, Mediterranean Oil 
&	 Gas	 Plc,	 the	 senior	 independent	
Director of Sterling Energy plc, and 
non-executive Director for HPR 
Holdings Limited. Previously Mr. Henry 
served as Chairman of Burren Energy 
plc, Helius Energy plc and Petrojarl 
ASA and as as Chief Executive of National Power plc, Brown 
&	 R oot	 Limit ed,	 and	 K v aer ner	 Engineering	 &	 Construction	
Limited.
Dr. Vivek Tandon 
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Board on Oct 2007. Prior to forming Aloe, 
Vivek co-founded a number of technology companies. 
He held several senior executive management 
positions in corporations including UK Managing 
Director of Viventures (a USD 700m Venture Capital 
Fund), CIENA, Kymata, British Telecommunications 
PLC and Motorola.Vivek currently sits on the boards 
of Allied T echnology Group (an Environmental Group), 
Recupyl (a global recycling company), EnvironCOM (a 
WEEE recycling company), Maxsys (a UK company 
selling energy saving equipment) and AlphaPET (a PET recycling company). 
He has a PhD from University College, London. He has published numerous 
papers and has several patents to his name.
