 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011   www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 08
Chairman’s Statement
We are at an exciting stage in the 
development of our business. During  
the period we have achieved a number  
of regulatory milestones, strengthened  
our financial position and established  
a presence in the lucrative Emerging  
Markets (starting with some important  
Latin American markets) to improve  
future growth prospects outside Europe. 
Chairman’s Statement © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 09
Chairman’s 
Statement
Chairman’s Statement © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011   www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 10
I am delighted to have this opportunity to write to you  
for the first time as Chairman. In particular, I would like  
to thank Ignace Goethals, from whom I took over the 
role on the 1 January this year, for a smooth and helpful 
transition and I welcome Ignace’s continued presence  
on the Board as a non-executive director.
I am pleased to report that, despite being impacted by  
a weak German market and a weaker Euro against Sterling 
on average over the year, the Group again reported an 
operating profit; albeit smaller than the previous year due 
in part to fair valuation of the foreign exchange hedges. 
This has been achieved by the acquisition of Teomed AG 
in Switzerland and other initiatives to improve revenue 
outside Germany whilst reducing costs in other areas, 
including reducing head count by approximately 10%.  
The lower operating profit and higher finance charges 
resulted in a £2.7m loss after tax (2010: £0.6m profit).  
The financial review on pages 30 to 35 describes the 
results in detail. 
We achieved the key regulatory goals we set for the 
year. Firstly in Germany, we submitted 10 MAAs to the 
Paul Erlich Institute (PEI), beginning to focus the portfolio 
on ‘registered finished products’. Secondly, in the 
United States, the Company met with the Food & Drug 
Administration (FDA) and they stated their intention to lift 
the clinical hold on all three programmes (Grass, Ragweed 
& Tree) and we are now preparing detailed protocols for 
discussion with the FDA to lift the hold officially. Finally 
we received the PEI report on the Pollinex
®
 Quattro 
Grass Complete 0.5ml MAA. We are reviewing the report 
and believe that the issues raised can be satisfactorily 
addressed and expect to submit a response by the end  
of November.
With a clear strategy for expanding our  
business we are well positioned to deliver  
growth for our shareholders.
Peter Jensen    
Chairman   
16 September 2011
Chairman’s Statement 11 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
Earlier in the year the European commercial infrastructure 
was strengthened by the acquisition of Teomed AG,  
a Swiss speciality distribution company. Teomed is  
the first acquisition following the increased emphasis  
in the Group’s strategy towards strengthening its 
European market position. Our new operation in the 
Netherlands further reinforces our European base. Both 
operations are now fully integrated and delivering value.
Following our decision to reduce the size of the Board, 
Keith Carter retired as a non executive director on  
31 December 2010 and both Tom Holdich and Christian 
Gratz left the Board on 30 September 2010. On behalf 
of my fellow directors I wish to thank them all for their 
contributions to the Group’s development.
We are at an exciting stage in the development of  
our business. During the period we have achieved  
a number of regulatory milestones, strengthened  
our financial position and established a presence in  
the lucrative Emerging Markets (starting with some 
important Latin American markets) to improve future 
growth prospects outside Europe. We will look for  
a partner to develop our Pollinex
®
 Quattro assets for  
the US market and we will seek to register Pollinex
®
 
Quattro Grass Complete 0.5ml in Germany and  
beyond through the European mutual recognition  
process. With a clear strategy for expanding our  
business we are well positioned to deliver growth  
for our shareholders.
Peter Jensen 
Chairman
16 September 2011
Chairman’s Statement
