 12 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011   www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
CEO’s Review
A key strategic goal is to expand the  
revenue base outside Europe, and the  
Group therefore intends to pursue 
opportunities in the Emerging Markets. 
Initially the Group will focus on Argentina, 
Columbia, Venezuela and Chile before  
moving into other Latin American markets.
  
CEO’s Review 13 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
CEO’s Review
CEO’s Review 14 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011   www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
Now in my second year as CEO, I am pleased that  
the Group is progressing well despite challenging market 
conditions and is delivering in line with its strategy.  
One of our key ambitions for this year was for the Group  
to maintain operating profitability and I am pleased to 
report that despite difficult market conditions in Germany 
this has been achieved. Operating profit for the year is 
£0.1m (2010: £1.5m), which included a non-cash charge  
of £0.8m (2010: £nil) at the balance sheet date for the  
fair valuation of outstanding foreign exchange contracts.
Operationally, the results for the period were  
impacted by a weaker German market, with gross  
sales (before German statutory sales rebates)  
marginally higher at £43.0m (2010: £42.0m).  
On a constant currency basis however, revenue  
increased by 5%. Gross sales of Pollinex
®
 Quattro  
grew by 2% on a constant currency basis.
The market in Germany has declined for the first time 
in the Group’s history as a result of various factors 
changing in the market place, including a new regulatory 
environment - the Therapeutic Allergen Regulation (TAV) - 
which has led to the withdrawal of certain minor product 
ranges and pressures from German health insurance 
companies on doctors to reduce spending.
The Group has initiated a number of measures to 
offset the impact of weaker sales in Germany including 
strengthening our sales teams in other major markets 
outside of Germany, all of which have been showing  
good growth. 
The Group has also recently set up its own operation  
in the Netherlands where sales have progressed well and 
we have taken advantage of the infrastructure to in-license 
complementary products to those already in our portfolio. 
On the first day of the financial year, the Company 
acquired Teomed AG of Switzerland for a consideration 
of CHF1.2m (£0.7m).Teomed specialises in the field of 
allergy and was the distributor for the Group’s products 
and other companies’ products in the Swiss market. 
Following this transaction Allergy Therapeutics has a 
direct sales and marketing presence in seven countries: 
Germany, Italy, Spain, UK, Austria, The Netherlands and 
Switzerland. The allergy vaccine market in Switzerland  
is sophisticated and well established, and is worth  
around £10 million per annum. The Pollinex
®
 Quattro  
Grass Complete 0.5ml dossier was submitted to the 
Swiss regulators in April 2011. These two new operations 
are a great opportunity to improve earnings and provides 
us with an established infrastructure from which to  
launch Pollinex
®
 Quattro in the future.
Over the past 6 years the Group has invested around £66m across 
three development programs for grass, tree and ragweed in Pollinex
®
 
Quattro and in proving the benefit of MPL in an oral vaccine.  
We have started the process to identify the right partner to help 
finish this development program, seek registrations in markets 
outside Europe and subsequently to commercialise the products. 
 
Manuel Llobet    
Chief Executive Officer   16 September 2011
CEO’s Review 15 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
A key strategic goal is to expand the revenue base outside 
Europe, and the Group therefore intends to pursue 
opportunities in the Emerging Markets. Initially the Group 
will focus on Argentina, Columbia, Venezuela and Chile 
before moving into other Latin American markets. Allergy 
Therapeutics has established the necessary infrastructure 
to begin building a presence in these markets, including 
creating a subsidiary in Argentina and putting distribution 
agreements in place to support its sales representatives. 
Allergic Rhinitis (“AR”) is a common chronic condition in 
Latin America, with a recently reported prevalence rate 
of 7% (approximately 40 million people) in a population-
based study. We want to maximize this opportunity 
for our products and anticipate that Emerging Markets 
will account for a significant proportion of the Group’s 
revenues in 5 years time.
At a meeting with the U.S. FDA in March this year,  
the Group was informed that the FDA intends to lift the 
clinical hold in order to allow the development of MATA-
MPL
©
 products to move forward. We are now preparing 
detailed protocols for discussion with the FDA to lift the 
hold officially and these will be submitted by December 
2011. This is a significant step forward for the Group.  
It is estimated that some 60 million people suffer from 
allergy in North America, an estimated 25 million of whom 
have been diagnosed as suffering from moderate to severe 
allergy. In many cases the disease and allergy symptoms 
are not well-controlled, and thus there is a significant unmet 
need for better treatment. It has recently been estimated 
that up to 3 million Americans are being treated with a 
vaccine prepared by the treating physicians themselves, 
who buy the base products in bulk from manufacturing 
companies. No registered products for allergy 
immunotherapy are currently available in North America.
Over the past 6 years the Group has invested around 
£66m across three development programs for grass, tree 
and ragweed in Pollinex
®
 Quattro and in proving the benefit 
of MPL in an oral vaccine. We have started the process to 
identify the right partner to help finish this development 
program, seek registrations in markets outside Europe  
and subsequently to commercialise the products.
CEO’s Review 16 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011   www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
At the end of November 2010 the Group submitted  
10 Marketing Authorisation Applications (MAA’s) to the 
Paul Ehrlich Institute (PEI), the Regulatory Authority for 
biological products in Germany. This achievement has 
been in response to the introduction of the TAV, which  
has changed the regulatory landscape in Germany.  
To date many products have been available in Germany  
on a ‘named patient’ basis. However, as a result of the 
TAV, all immunotherapy products containing common 
allergens (grass, trees, house dust mites and insect 
venoms) will need Marketing Authorisations by 2017. 
Since 2008, Allergy Therapeutics has reviewed its  
product portfolio and has submitted MAA’s for its top  
10 products in the Pollinex
®
 Quattro, Tyrosin TU t.o.p.  
and Oralvac Compact ranges. This has been a major 
project that has required significant investment over the 
past two years and will result in the Group continuing to 
offer an attractive portfolio of products. These regulatory 
changes should favour the Group as the market will 
become focused on evidence-based, approved, value-
added immunotherapy products and Allergy Therapeutics  
is well-placed to deliver a range of such products.
The Group has a broad product portfolio that addresses 
the needs of the market: injectable (both short and longer 
course), oral and diagnostics. The flagship product is 
Pollinex
®
 Quattro, an injectable short course vaccine  
which requires only four injections over a period of  
three weeks. Pollinex
®
 Quattro is currently sold across  
a number of European countries on a named patient  
basis. Completion of the regulatory process outlined 
below will open up new markets to Pollinex
®
 Quattro  
and enable Allergy Therapeutics to improve market  
share in those countries where only named patient  
sales are currently possible.
During the year we have added to our portfolio through  
a number of agreements.
The Anapen
®
 auto-injector adrenaline (epinephrine) pen 
has been licensed in from Lincoln Medical Ltd. in certain 
markets. Anapen
®
 is a device to administer adrenaline  
and treats anaphylactic shock. This can be caused by  
an allergic reaction to foods such as nuts and shell fish,  
or to a wasp or bee sting, as well as contact with 
materials such as natural latex. Auto-injector pens are 
commonly carried by people at risk of anaphylactic shock 
as the adrenaline can be self-administered and is very  
fast acting. Adrenaline also features in emergency  
drug kits frequently held by GP surgeries and dental  
practices to treat patients prior to the emergency  
services arriving on scene. It is estimated that up  
to 4 million people in Europe and the USA carry  
an adrenaline auto-injector. 
CEO’s Review 17 © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 
DAP , a diagnostic product for people who are allergic  
to penicillin, has been licensed from Diater Laboratorios 
S.A. for certain markets. Millions of patients believe they 
are allergic to penicillin. However, it is estimated that 
only approximately one in ten of these patients is actually 
allergic. If not diagnosed properly, patients who believe 
they are allergic to penicillin will be treated with broad 
spectrum antibiotics. Improved diagnosis can limit the  
use of broad spectrum antibiotics, thereby lowering 
treatment costs and the risk of developing multi drug 
resistant bacteria.
Avamys nasal spray is co-promoted in Germany on  
behalf of GSK. People who suffer from nasal allergies 
(allergic rhinitis) can experience a variety of symptoms  
as a result of their allergy, including a runny, itchy or 
blocked nose, sneezing and sinus discomfort.  
These symptoms are a result of inflammation in 
the nasal passages. Avamys contains the active 
ingredient fluticasone furoate, which is a corticosteroid. 
Corticosteroids are hormones produced naturally by 
the adrenal glands that have many important functions, 
including control of inflammatory responses. Fluticasone 
is a synthetic corticosteroid and is administered by nasal 
spray to decrease inflammation in the nasal passages. 
 
 
Outlook
As a result of new regulations in Europe, a new global 
market of registered allergy vaccine products will be 
created. Immunotherapy is receiving more attention and 
is the only segment of the Allergic Rhinitis market that 
is expected to show significant growth in the next few 
years, according to a recent Datamonitor report. We are 
preparing the Group to take advantage of this opportunity. 
Key objectives have been achieved to make the Group 
profitable and to strengthen our European business. 
During the year we have consolidated our position in 
Europe and remained profitable at the EBITDA level. 
We anticipate building on our profitability in the coming 
years as we focus on the Emerging Markets and on the 
continued expansion of our portfolio of products through 
in-licensing. The work we have already undertaken to 
reduce and carefully control our costs means we are  
now well placed to maximise the long-term potential  
of our business by moving into new territories and  
adding new products for our sales force to sell.  
Work will also continue to find a partner to help develop 
and commercialise our products in North America.
 
The current challenging economic climate may affect 
certain markets, with reimbursed markets seeing 
increased pressure on payors to lower the cost of 
medicines and greater pressure on discretionary spending 
in markets where products are not fully reimbursed. 
Variations in the Euro/Sterling exchange rate will also 
continue to affect performance in the second half.  
We will also continue to move forward with regulatory 
activities in Germany and the US.
There are many opportunities that will enable us to create 
a bright future for Allergy Therapeutics. With operating 
profits delivered for the second year running giving 
the Group a strong financial base and excellent market 
potential, I believe we will build on this year’s performance  
and create significant long-term value for shareholders and  
stakeholders, as well as making a real difference to patients.
Manuel Llobet 
Chief Executive Officer
16 September 2011
CEO’s Review
