  CEO’s review

®
 
 enables the Group to move forward in this important and currently poorly served market.   
 Diversiﬁcation into other geographies and product in-licensing opportunities continue to  
 
© Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012  www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 12 CEO’s review CEO’s review
© Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 13 CEO’s review © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012  www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 14 CEO’s review
 CEO’s review
 
 

 Manuel Llobet    
 
 14 September 2012
The most recent signiﬁcant achievement was the lifting of 
 a partner to help fund the remainder of the development 
 ®
,  
 
agonist which acts to stimulate and re-direct the immune 
response in decreasing allergenicity and increasing 
 
which are already commercialised in a number of European 
 injections per year and have the potential to transform  
 
and effective vaccination for allergic rhinitis sufferers.  
 
by being the ﬁrst subcutaneous immunotherapy vaccine  
to reach that market.
Looking at the ﬁnancial results, I am pleased to report that 
 favourably with the loss reported in the corresponding  
 to a return to proﬁt, including good cost management as  
we focus on protecting net margins.
 but in some parts of Europe sales were hampered by government 

 
the Company has in fact grown sales thanks to an outstanding 
 annual adjuvant congress held in early July this year, where 
the values of adjuvants in immunotherapy were reviewed.  
The Austrian market continues to have opportunities for 
allergy vaccines, in particular where vaccines offer an 
 Quattro. The success in Ireland during the year has been 
generated by the introduction of Anapen
®
, an epinephrine 
 
Medical, the producer of Anapen, in May 2012, the Company  
is working with Lincoln towards re-establishing normal supply.  © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 15 CEO’s review 
CEO’s review
The Group has continued to decrease its reliance on Germany, 
the Group’s largest market which has been impacted by 
general austerity measures and the withdrawal of de-notiﬁed 
products. This has contributed to a shrinking market that is 
only now showing signs of stabilising. The weaker market and 
the increase in the rebate payable to sick funds, operated by 
German insurance companies have impacted sales. In spite  
of this, the Company has improved its competitive position  
in the number of units sold against the prior year with a strong 
improvement in sales of the registered TA range. The outlook 
for Germany remains cautious given the on-going uncertainty 
in the Eurozone. 
Sales in Spain have also been affected by austerity measures 
introduced to counteract the impact of a weaker economy  
and broader Eurozone related pressures. 
During the period the Group shipped initial supplies of 
vaccines to Colombia, Chile, Argentina and most recently, 
 
 
made, it has been slower than originally anticipated.  
The Group is undertaking an educational programme  
with physicians and continues to develop these markets. 
The Group continues to identify potential new markets and 
in-licensing product opportunities. The Group’s in-licensed 
 for people who are allergic to penicillin, which is licensed by 
Diater Laboratories S.A and Anapen, an emergency device 
 licensed from Lincoln Medical. © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012  www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com CEO’s review
As reported previously, a complete response was submitted 
 Quattro Complete grass formulation. The Company addressed 
 volume of 0.5ml; compared to a 1.0ml injection volume for 
 Complete, the Company will pursue further registrations 
 European countries. 
 marketing authorisation applications have been made in 
response to the introduction of the Therapeutic Allergen 
 in Germany. To date many products have been available in 
 of the TAV, all immunotherapy products containing common 
 
The Group has reviewed its product portfolio and has 
submitted marketing authorisation applications for its top  
 applications must have been obtained. The Company currently 
 applications which are likely to result in the Group incurring 
 There have also been changes in the reimbursement regime  
in Germany. As announced in the Company’s annual results last 
year , there has been a price freeze in Germany on reimbursed 
 
The rebate paid to sick-funds increased from August 2010 
 the end of 2011, it is currently uncertain as to whether 
 however it continues to discuss this with the authorities. © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com CEO’s review
Outlook
Despite the uncertain economic times in the Group’s  
main markets, the outlook for revenue growth in Europe  
 
 in this important and currently poorly served market. 
Diversiﬁcation into other geographies and product in-licensing 
 strategy for growth. 
 
new, growing and established markets, we are conﬁdent  
of the future prospects of the Group to deliver shareholder 
value in the medium to long term.
Manuel Llobet
 14 September 2012
CEO’s review
