  Chairman’s statement
 
 
 
© Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012  www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com Chairman’s statement Chairman’s statement
© Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com Chairman’s statement © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012  www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 10 Chairman’s statement
 Chairman’s statement
 
 

 Peter Jensen
 Chairman 
 14 September 2012
I am pleased to write my second statement as Chairman  
of Allergy Therapeutics and comment upon a year that has 
been important in the continued development of the Group. 
 employees for their contribution to the continued success  
of the Group for the year.
 
 ®
 Grass product was a signiﬁcant event  
and milestone for the Company. This decision allows the 
Group to commence a pivotal clinical trial programme for 
 
 identifying a suitable development and commercialisation 
 The successful fundraising that took place in April this year 
 
 
as the cornerstone investor. The resolutions were approved  
 
 
 
 concentrate on the Group’s continued and future growth. © Allergy Therapeutics plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 www.allergytherapeutics.com www.pollinex.com 11 Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
The ﬁnancial results for the year show consistent sales and a 
 This improvement has arisen as a result of favourable foreign 
 introduced during the year. In addition, the Group’s strategy  
 reducing the Group’s reliance on the German market,  
is clearly reﬂected in this year’s results.
I am pleased to welcome Dr Thomas Lander, who joined the 
 
with major pharma and biotech companies, including  
positions in German and Swiss pharmaceutical companies.
I would also like to thank, on behalf of all the stakeholders, 
 
to the development of the Group over a number of years. 
They both stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2012.
Despite challenging market conditions, prospects for the  
Group remain positive, particularly given the lifting of  
 
 
year, both of which bode well for the Group to continue  
to grow the business and deliver shareholder value.
Peter Jensen
Chairman
14 September 2012
