 CEO’s Review CEO’s Review 10 © Allergy Therapeutics plc www.allergytherapeutics.com
The lifting of the FDA ’s clinical hold on the Group’s Pollinex
®
 
Quattro vaccine in the US at the beginning of the financial 
year was a major achievement for the Group. Elsewhere in 
the business the Group continued to focus on expanding into 
new markets and to diversify its product portfolio. 
Allergy Therapeutics has continued to grow its revenues 
in markets outside Germany, the Group’s largest market, 
as part of its broader strategy to reduce its reliance on 
revenues from this territory. The Group reported revenue 
in Germany of £23.6 million, accounting for 60% of the 
Group’s revenue compared with 73% reported in 2009.  
During the last six months of the year, the Group’s sales in 
Germany have shown signs of improvement, outperforming 
the market by 13 points in volume during the period. The 
European Commission has recently opened an investigation 
into whether the exemption from the increase in rebates in 
Germany constitutes state aid. If it is eventually concluded 
that the exemptions constitute state aid, then all unlawful aid 
may have to be repaid.
In other markets, sales in Italy and Austria increased by 3% 
and 8% respectively at constant currency. UK sales were 
down owing to the termination of the Anapen distribution 
agreement as announced in December 2012, but before 
Anapen sales were positive. Sales in the Spanish market have 
shown signs of recovery due to improvements implemented 
by management, after a decline over a number of years, 
resulting in a turnaround of the subsidiary.
In December 2012 the Group signed a new distribution 
agreement for Pollinex
®
 Ragweed, replacing the existing 
distributor with Paladin Labs, one of Canada’s leading 
specialty pharmaceutical companies with extensive 
experience marketing in-licensed products. I am pleased to 
report this is going well with sales increasing by 8% against 
the previous year.
Although we are beginning to see an improvement in certain 
markets, sales across the Group’s principal geographical 
markets continue to reflect the impact of challenging market 
conditions, governmental austerity measures and the 
weakening average Euro against sterling.  As a consequence 
the Group’s operating profit for the year was £0.7 million 
(2012: £1 .1 million). 
Measures implemented over the last two years to improve 
our competitive position in Europe are beginning to show 
positive results. Market data, which is available for the 12 
months to June 2013 showed a positive performance against 
the market across our main European markets. Germany was 
seven points above the market when measured by volume; 
by value improvements above the market were recorded as 
follows: Austria 12, Italy 15 and the Netherlands 17 points.
The partnering process for Pollinex
®
 Quattro in the US, 
although it has not entirely completed, has not generated 
a suitable partner to date for the company and as a 
consequence work is underway to explore alternatives to 
develop the US opportunity; an update will be provided on 
developments in due course. In Europe, a response to the 
MAA for Pollinex
®
 Quattro Grass 0.5ml submitted to the PEI 
is still awaited. The PEI has not disclosed when an update on 
the review can be expected.
During the year the Group has made good progress on 
its strategy to diversify its portfolio, expand into new 
geographical markets and identify new in-licensing 
opportunities. To this end the Group introduced three new 
probiotics products during the year: Kallergen-Th, ATI Prob 
and Pollagen, each targeting different forms of allergic 
disease. The Group also made progress with another product, 
Acarovac Plus, which has been launched in Spain. Acarovac 
Plus is a novel tyrosine-adsorbed, modified-allergen product 
developed for treatment of perennial mite allergy. 
Research and Development costs during the financial year 
have increased to £2.5 million (2012: £2.1 million) to reflect 
the Group’s focus on diversifying the business. Registrations 
have been undertaken in Peru and Venezuela for mite allergy 
products. Under the Therapeutic Allergen Regulation in 
Germany, progress has been made with the Pollinex Quattro 
Birch dose ranging study: clinical trial and ethics applications 
have been submitted in Germany, Austria and Poland and the 
dosing of patients starts in September 2013. The registration 
of various allergy vaccines in Portugal will be concluded in 
September 2013.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review © Allergy Therapeutics plc www.allergytherapeutics.com 11
Outlook 
The lifting of the clinical hold by the FDA in August 2012 
has allowed the Group to resume its Pollinex
®
 Quattro 
development programme in the US, where the search for 
a suitable development and commercialisation partner 
continues. In Europe we are also moving forward, 
implementing efficiencies and strengthening our position by 
winning market share and diversifying our revenue base. With 
these developments alongside expected news from PEI, we 
remain confident of the future prospects of the Company.
Manuel Llobet
Chief Executive Officer
13 September 2013
