 Chairman’s Statement Chairman’s Statement 06 © Allergy Therapeutics plc www.allergytherapeutics.com
During the year Allergy Therapeutics has focused on 
diversifying the Group’s product portfolio whilst evaluating 
potential partnering opportunities to commercialise our 
Pollinex
®
 Quattro product in the US. 
At the beginning of the financial year we were pleased to 
report that the clinical hold on the Group’s development 
program for Pollinex
®
 Quattro in the United States had been 
formally lifted by the US FDA (Food and Drug Administration). 
The Group is focussed  on securing a suitable partner with 
whom it intends to complete late stage clinical development, 
submit a BLA (Biologics License Application) to the FDA, and 
launch Pollinex
®
 Quattro in the important US market.  The 
Group has continued to work with the FDA to support the 
protocol for the Pollinex Grass 304 study and will update the 
market in due course with any developments. 
In the absence of a registered subcutaneous vaccine in the 
US for grass-related allergic rhinitis, commercialisation of 
Pollinex
®
 Quattro could revolutionise treatment in the US by 
providing effective, fast-acting treatment to allergy sufferers. 
Pollinex
®
 Quattro involves four pre-seasonal allergy vaccine 
injections administered over a month, making it an attractive 
alternative to the prolonged course of weekly to monthly 
injections over three years that is currently available with the 
allergen extract vaccines used in the US.
Outside of the US, the Group anticipates regulatory news 
in Germany, where it submitted a Marketing Authorisation 
Application (MAA) for Pollinex
®
 Quattro Grass 0.5 ml to the 
Paul Ehrlich Institute (PEI). PEI has not disclosed when an 
update on the review process can be expected owing to 
the significant increase in its workload as a result of the 
introduction of Therapeutic Allergen Regulation (TAV).
 
I am pleased to report that the Group has made good 
progress with its strategy to diversify the business, enter 
new markets and expand its product portfolio, resulting 
in reduced reliance on the historically important German 
market. The Group is progressing the registration process 
for products in Italy and Portugal and continues to invest 
prudently in promising R&D programmes. In addition, the 
Group has introduced three probiotics products – Kallergen-
Th, ATI-Prob and Pollagen, which have been well received in 
Italy and are expected to be launched in other markets later 
this year. The Group also launched Acarovac Plus in Spain, 
a modified-allergen product developed for the treatment of 
perennial mite allergy.
Although certain market conditions in Europe remain 
challenging, the Group is pleased to report an operating 
profit of £0.7 million (2012: £1 .1 million), the fourth year in 
succession an operating profit has been reported, coupled 
with continued investment in increasing the Group’s markets 
and research and development. Encouragingly, the Group’s 
sales in Germany have shown signs of improvement over the 
last 6 months in addition to increasing its market share and 
the Group as a whole is confident of its prospects, based on 
expected news and its strategy to expand the business into 
new and existing markets.
Peter Jensen
Chairman
13 September 2013
Chairman’s Statement 
