 GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
3
The Online Business operates in both 
the consumer and the SME marketplace under 
four brands offering a full range of domain name, 
shared hosting and email services through fully 
transactional websites.
Easily.co.uk has more than 120,000 customers with 
a focus on offering low cost, good quality products 
backed up by exceptional support. The brand 
targets a number of niche markets, including the 
small business start up market, and has strategic 
partnerships with, amongst others, HSBC Business 
Banking and Orange.co.uk, to provide services to 
their customers. More recently it has launched an 
ecommerce package that is targeted at businesses 
making their first steps in trading online.
The Speednames.com brand operates throughout 
Scandinavia, having provided domain name services 
since 2000. Speednames.com offers a wide range 
of domain name suffixes, coupled with excellent 
service. The main focus of Speednames.com is the 
business customer who wishes to secure a number 
of domain names in a variety of overseas markets. 
NetNames and NetBenefit both provide services 
online. Although these brands are targeted at 
customers for managed services they retain unique 
or specialist services for which there is continued 
demand from customers who buy online.
NetBenefit provides managed hosting 
services in the UK and France. It is focused on 
providing reliable and flexible managed hosting 
solutions designed to meet customers’ business 
requirements. Customers range from small start‑ups 
looking for scalable solutions that will grow with 
their business requirements to financial services 
companies and major UK retailers for whom just 
minutes of downtime would translate into 
thousands of pounds in lost revenue.
NetBenefit works with customers directly and through 
an indirect channel model comprising digital agencies 
and IT consultancies. NetBenefit partners with 
a number of the UK’s top 100 digital agencies 
providing the hosting for online advertising 
campaigns for some of the world’s most 
recognisable brands. 
Services range from single server solutions to complex 
database clusters, they include high availability or 
disaster recovery solutions through multiple data 
centres allowing the provision of resilient web 
hosting deployed over dual sites. NetBenefit also 
provides Content Delivery Network services; backup 
and recovery services with eVault; and virtual services 
which consist of either VM Ware or Microsoft’s Hyper‑V .
NetBenefit has recently opened a fourth data centre 
which is entirely powered by green electricity. This 
combined with the adoption of virtualisation, where 
a physical server is split up into a number of virtual 
machines, will allow NetBenefit to be more efficient 
in the way that it uses power in its data centres.
Ascio provides a white‑label domain name 
registration service for partners such as Internet 
Service Providers (ISPs), Telcos, domain name 
resellers and Intellectual Property law firms. Ascio 
works exclusively through partners with a clear focus 
on providing the premium quality and exceptional 
service that domain name professionals need. 
Ascio’s is an automated service with a broad range 
of ccTLDs. It provides a registration engine that offers 
access to 250 top level domains (TLDs) through 
one standard interface. It is easily integrated into 
any existing order provisioning system using an 
XML‑based API or standard email template. 
Ascio has over 300 partners throughout the world 
with particular emphasis on Continental Europe and 
has more than 500,000 domains under management. 
Partners include Cable and Wireless, Hostpoint 
and Telenor.
Partners are able to offer their customers a wide 
selection of TLDs without needing to invest in the 
infrastructure required to register names globally.
Ascio also provides powerful, packaged marketing 
campaigns to help its partners stimulate new business. 
These may be topical, themed or geographically 
targeted campaigns in a variety of different 
forms and media.
Online
Managed 
hosting
Reseller 
services
www.speednames.com www.netbenefit.com www.ascio.com
www.easily.co.uk GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
4
Chairman’s Statement
Group NBT achieved an excellent performance in the year ended 30 June from our family of internet services. These results demonstrate the success of our 
strategy of concentrating on services for growing corporate markets generating strong recurring revenue at high profit margins.
We enjoyed a healthy contribution from the Danish business we acquired in January 2007, where integration is well advanced. We made a smaller investment 
in July 2007 acquiring Envisional, a Cambridge‑based business with innovative techniques for protecting online brands and detecting internet piracy , and it 
is trading in line with our expectations.
Total revenue for the year grew by 58%, and excluding those two acquisitions, organic revenue growth was 19%. Revenue from services managing portfolios 
of corporate domain names was up 72% in total, and organic growth of the NetNames Platinum Service was 36%. 
Underlying pre‑tax profit* for the Group was up 49% at £5.51 million (2007: £3.70 million). The operating profit margin of the Group remained strong, and 
fully‑diluted underlying EPS* increased by 32% to 16.26 pence (2007: 12.29 pence). The Group also continued to be strongly cash‑generative. In line with 
our ongoing dividend policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.6 pence, making a total dividend of 2.4 pence for the year, 33% ahead of 2007.
Group NBT has pursued its consistent strategy for more than five years with unbroken success. Since 2004 underlying diluted EPS* has more than tripled, 
growing at a compound annual rate of 32%. Total shareholder returns over the same period are 28% per annum compound. I thank all our management 
and staff: this first‑class outcome owes much to their skills, energy, and commitment.
Outl OOk We have not, so far, felt any negative impact from the current economic climate, and we continue to maintain our growth momentum. With 52% of our revenue 
now recurring or repeat corporate business with very high renewal rates, our forward visibility is good.
We remain committed to our policy of seeking steady organic growth coupled with acquisitions from which we can extract good value. We have a good 
competitive position, an attractive business model with strong economics, a product line which we are continually strengthening and sound management. 
In addition our core markets remain attractive. I am confident, therefore, that Group NBT has the fundamental attributes in place to deliver further sustainable 
growth in the current year. 
JOhn Parcell chairman *excluding amortisation and restructuring costs.
“
We have a good competitive position, 
an attractive business model with strong 
economics, a product line which we 
are continually strengthening and 
sound management.
”
