 2
GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
NetNames Platinum Service allows 
organisations and Intellectual Property (IP) professionals 
to implement and maintain an effective domain name 
management and online brand protection strategy. 
Customers come from a wide variety of industries 
and include Unilever, Barclays and ladbrokes.com. 
NetNames is an Internet Company for Assigned 
Names and Numbers (ICANN) accredited 
registrar with the ability to register domain names 
in all available suffixes worldwide. NetNames provides 
comprehensive coverage of country code Top Level 
Domains (ccTLDs) such as .de and .es. Following 
the acquisition of Ascio Technologies in January 
2007 NetNames became Europe’s largest domain 
name management specialist. 
NetNames guarantees renewal of domain names 
and provides a secure, high performance Domain 
Name Server (DNS) infrastructure. Platinum Service 
clients also have access to SSL certificates from 
VeriSign to further secure their online presence. 
NetNames provides a recovery service to assist 
clients in purchasing domain names that have been 
registered by other organisations and supports 
customers during domain name disputes. 
NetNames Platinum Service includes a suite of online 
brand monitoring products. Using Envisional’s 
technology to monitor the Internet, brand violations 
from suspect domain name registrations to brand 
abuse such as auction sites carrying fake consumer 
goods can be identified and action taken. 
Envisional provides automated internet search 
and monitoring services to identify and deal with 
internet based brand abuse, counterfeiting, piracy 
and fraud. Its Discovery Engine can identify, filter 
and prioritise information on websites, blogs, forums, 
newsgroups and Internet Relay Chat. The technology 
applies advanced artificial intelligence techniques 
to the task of classifying information and pinpointing 
the most important findings for clients. 
Customers include banks and insurers, major film 
studios, copyright holders and their trade bodies, 
luxury goods firms, multi‑brand corporations and 
the legal firms and marketing agencies that work 
with them. 
Envisional’s brand protection services include: the 
ImageFlare image matching software, providing 
accurate identification of logos and images even 
where a logo has been modified; an eBay monitoring 
service; and a service for companies with large 
networks of affiliates or resellers to enable them 
to ensure compliance. 
Envisional has started to exploit the cross‑selling 
opportunities for brand protection services within 
the large NetNames customer base. June 2008 saw 
the launch of the first group of products to be sold 
through the NetNames sales force. These products 
– Domain Alert, Domain Monitor, Brand Monitor 
and eBay Auction Monitor – are standard packages 
of services, based on Envisional’s intelligent 
search technology. 
 at a Glance
Our business consists 
of five market 
leading services
Domain  
name 
management
Brand 
protection
www.netnames.com www.envisional.com
