 04
GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Group NBT made further strong progress over the year to 30 June 2009, demonstrating the strength of our business in the face of testing market conditions. 
We continue to benefit from the ongoing structural shift towards internet commerce.
Performance was especially strong in our two chief activities, which generate recurring revenues from corporate clients by managing their portfolios of internet 
domain names and by hosting their websites. We also achieved good growth in the Ascio Partner business providing infrastructure to companies who retail domain 
names to consumers.
Underlying pre-tax profit increased by 22% to £6.7 million, and underlying diluted EPS increased by 24% to 20.17 pence. These underlying figures exclude amortisation 
and restructuring costs. We had net gains from currency movements, and excluding these the growth rate would have been 13% for both underlying pre-tax 
profit and underlying diluted EPS.
In view of this performance, we are increasing the final dividend by 25% to 2.0 pence, subject to shareholder approval, making 3.0 pence for the full year – 
also 25% up from the previous year.
My thanks and best wishes for the future go to Jonathan Robinson, one of the founders of the Company, who stood down from the Board in June to pursue other 
interests. Following his departure, we have restructured our management team around our key services. My thanks also go to Tim Ashley who stepped down from 
the Board in October. Tim has been a Non-executive Director of Group NBT since 2000 and has played a significant part in the Group’s success. He will be replaced 
in due course.
The world economic slowdown has had some limited effects on us: specifically, slower new contract wins for corporate domain names, a higher churn rate 
in managed hosting, and a slower than anticipated take up of the innovative internet brand protection services of Envisional which we acquired two years ago.
Nevertheless, with our solid competitive position and attractive business model we see further good growth in the current year.
John Parcell chairman “
The strength of our business 
model is demonstrated by the 
strong progress we have made 
in these testing market conditions. 
”
