 GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
05
Group NBT has made excellent progress during the year under review, with good growth for both revenue and profit. This result has been achieved despite 
difficult and slowing markets and is testimony to the strength of our business model. As a result, during these turbulent times, Group NBT has consolidated 
its position as one of the leading international providers of brand protection and domain name management services and has become a significant provider 
of domain names to other ISPs through its reseller services.
Strategy Our ongoing strategy is to focus on our core markets, building streams of recurring revenue with further improvement in profitability . We have developed 
premium brands with high levels of added value for customers and will build on this position through geographic growth, continued automation of processes 
and by extending products into new markets.
Much of the Group’s revenue is contracted and most services provided are an essential part of our customers’ businesses. As a result, renewal rates have remained 
strong and new customer acquisition has been good. We also benefit from having customers from a broad spectrum of businesses internationally and from having 
a range of services that we provide to them.
market conditionS
Market conditions in the year under review were more challenging than in previous years. Customers’ projects took longer to come to fruition and lead times 
on new sales have extended. The market for domain names has had lower growth than in previous years. Overall there are around 183 million domain names 
registered with growth slowing from 26% in the previous year to 12% last year. 
Group NBT continues to be innovative, building new products to keep pace with technology and also to add value for our customers. This year we have redesigned 
our online management portal for domain names bringing additional functionality to create a market leading product. We have also replaced our network using the 
latest technology enabling us to provide highly resilient services.
Financial overview 
Revenue for the Group was £41.5 million for the year to 30 June 2009, up 18% on the previous year and up 10% on a constant currency basis. This growth 
is all organic but has benefited from currency movements as a significant part of our revenue is in other currencies. 
Profit before tax was £5.0 million, up 19% on the previous year. On an underlying basis excluding amortisation and restructuring costs, profit before tax was 
£6.7 million, up 22% on last year and up 13% on a constant currency basis. Underlying fully diluted earnings per share (EPS), excluding amortisation and 
restructuring costs, were 20.17 pence, up 24% on last year. As the integration of acquisitions made in the previous two years is largely complete we do not 
expect to incur significant costs related to this in the future.
The Company continues to be cash generative and at the end of the financial year the Group had net cash of £5.2 million, up from £0.7 million at the end 
of the previous year.
“
Group NBT has delivered an excellent set of 
results despite a challenging business environment. 
Our strategy remains constant and is focused 
on building increasingly profitable recurring 
revenue streams. Development of our premium 
services and brands combined with increased 
process efficiency will underpin long term 
profitable growth. The Board remains 
confident of further good performance.
”
Chief Executive’s Review GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
06
c orPorate Brand ServiceS
Group NBT provides domain name management services and brand protection services to a wide range of companies internationally. We are the European market 
leader and one of only a small number of companies able to provide management of domain names from all registries worldwide. Our services, which we provide 
largely through the NetNames brand, allow users to keep control of their valuable intellectual property and help to protect against misuse of their name and brands 
on the Internet. Brand protection is provided through Envisional and is increasingly sold with domain name management services. Companies use our services to 
guard against fraud, the sale of counterfeit goods online, digital piracy and other infringements against their brands, products and services.
Revenue for Corporate Brand Services for the year under review was £20.7 million, up 21% on the previous year, up 13% on a constant currency basis. Within this, 
revenue for domain name management was £19.3 million and for brand protection services was £1.3 million. 
NetNames Platinum Service is the key product in this area, used by many large brand owners around the world. Companies are taking the management of their 
domain names more seriously as their use of the Internet grows and they understand the need to protect their brands. We continued to acquire new customers 
at a good rate during the last financial year, although at a slower pace than in the previous year. Performance was particularly good in the US, France, Switzerland 
and Germany. 
Speednames Business services are being integrated with NetNames; some customers will move to NetNames Platinum Service and the rest will form the basis 
for a lower tier service under the NetNames brand. Speednames will remain as an online brand. This process is under way and will be completed during this year. 
As the Internet matures it is increasingly difficult for companies to register their first choice of domain names, as a result our customers are using our services 
to buy names in the secondary market. Revenue from this service more than doubled in the year under review.
Envisional provides our brand protection services. Revenue for the year to 30 June 2009 was flat at £1.3 million. During the year we changed the structure of the 
product with the result that several unfavourable contracts were lost, without these losses revenue grew by 6%. In addition, during the year we launched a range 
of new products for sale to our NetNames Platinum Service customers with which we made good progress.
managed hoSting 
The Group provides managed hosting services in the UK and France. This market is not particularly international as the requirements for hosting have a local 
dimension better met by local suppliers. Revenue for managed hosting in the last financial year was £6.0 million, up 18% on the previous year . Our growth slowed 
last year for a number of reasons: we lost customers due to poor trading conditions, our customer base in this market proved to be less resilient than in domain 
management, growth in the market slowed globally with the UK particularly impacted, and we concentrated on improving our infrastructure which diverted 
resources from our sales effort. Nonetheless our performance remained solid and we are well placed to improve performance as the market improves.
During the year we completely replaced our technical infrastructure to allow the Group to provide resilient services to an increasingly demanding market. This significant 
investment in infrastructure included a completely new network capable of running a significantly larger number of customers. We also opened a new data centre 
facility and moved a significant number of customers to this new facility allowing us to close several older less efficient facilities. Technology changes in this market 
have moved rapidly, we are now able to offer customers the use of the latest technology including virtualisation and cloud computing.
aScio Partner BuSineSS
Ascio, our brand for resellers, had a very good year with revenue of £7.8 million, up 45% on the previous year and up 24% on a constant currency basis. 
Ascio allows ISPs and other companies to provide domain name services by linking to our technology on a white label basis. Ascio is particularly strong 
in Continental Europe where the requirement to register domain names with many different country suffixes gives Ascio a real competitive advantage.
The growth during the year was to some extent the result of exceptional sales made in the previous year where the transfer of these new customers’ business 
to Ascio was completed in the year under review. It is likely that this level of growth will not be repeated this year although the business continues to do well.
During the year under review we have added new partners at a steady rate similar to the previous year. These partners usually take time to build their business through 
the API so they will have more impact on revenue for this year than last year. We have been particularly successful in Eastern Europe but continue to build on our 
very good position in the Nordic countries. 
online ServiceS 
We provide a range of online services through multiple brands. We do not intend to compete in the mass markets, preferring to remain niche players where we can 
provide higher levels of service and charge premium prices. We concentrate on selling online services through Easily in the UK and Speednames Online in Europe. 
Revenue of £7.1 million for the year under review was down 8% on the previous year. This result is in line with expectations as we move sales in the NetNames 
and NetBenefit brands away from the online market. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
07
ProFit 
The overall gross margin rate was 73.2% in the year down from 77.5% in the previous year. This reduction was attributable to a number of factors; a change in revenue 
mix, data centre costs increasing, largely due to price rises; and higher domain name costs as the result of a stronger US Dollar relative to European currencies. 
Underlying operating profit, excluding amortisation and restructuring costs, at £6.7 million, increased 18% year-on-year and 10% on a constant currency basis. 
On this basis the margin was 16.2%, unchanged from last year. This was largely the result of a lower gross margin rate which was mitigated through cost control 
with normal operating costs increasing modestly on a constant currency basis. The result also benefited from net foreign currency gains arising from translation 
of monetary balances in the first half of the year. 
Underlying profit before tax, excluding amortisation and restructuring costs, at £6.7 million, increased 22% year-on-year and 13% on a constant currency basis. 
On this basis the margin was 16.2%, up from 15.6% last year, an improved net cash position and lower interest rates resulted in a lower net interest charge which 
increased the profit margin from last year. 
Given that a large proportion of the Group’s revenue and profit now arises outside the UK, currency fluctuations during the year have had a significant impact 
on the Group’s results through translation of the results of its foreign operations. Overall, this translation has had a beneficial impact on the Group’s results and 
to facilitate comparison, constant currency results have been provided as appropriate. The Group manages its currency exposure on an ongoing basis as part 
of its risk management process. 
On a statutory basis: operating profit was £5.0 million, up 14% from £4.4 million last year; profit before tax was £5.0 million, up 19% from £4.2 million last year; 
basic EPS was 15.68 pence, up 20% from 13.02 pence last year and diluted EPS was 15.30 pence, up 21% from 12.64 pence last year.
t aSxation A tax charge of £1.1 million (2008: £0.9 million) arose in the year representing an effective tax rate of 21.1% (2008: 22.3%). The effective tax rate on profit 
excluding amortisation, restructuring costs and related tax credits was 22.3% (2008: 23.4%).
The effective rate of tax is below the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 28% due largely to utilisation and recognition of trading losses and other timing 
differences previously unrecognised given the uncertainty relating to their recoverability, and varying tax rates in non-UK jurisdictions. 
As a result of acquisitions made over recent years, the Group now operates in eight tax jurisdictions. The overall tax charge comprises the results from these 
businesses together with utilisation of losses as they become available. At 30 June 2009, the Group had estimated losses in excess of £11 million which had 
not been recognised as the timing of their utilisation and availability cannot be assessed with sufficient certainty at this time. 
caSh Strong cash generation in the second half of the year resulted in net cash balances of £5.2 million at year end, up from £1.8 million at 31 December 2008 
and £0.7 million at 30 June 2008.
Net cash inflow from operating activities in the year was £7.3 million compared to £7.8 million last year. While this level of cash generation is satisfactory, cash 
collection has been slower than anticipated due to a number of factors including economic conditions. We continue to monitor and manage our receivables closely. 
Expenditure on tangible fixed assets decreased to £1.5 million from £2.2 million last year, as anticipated, as the programme of upgrading our technical infrastructure 
started last year was largely completed during the year. During the year £0.2 million (2008: £1.0 million) was paid in respect of deferred consideration relating to 
the Envisional acquisition. 
At 30 June 2009, the Group had cash balances of £8.2 million (2008: £4.7 million) and debt of £3.0 million (2008: £4.0 million) before unamortised facility fees, 
resulting in a net cash balance of £5.2 million (2008: £0.7 million). The debt relates to a five-year bank loan of £5.0 million arranged in connection with the 
acquisition of our Danish business in January 2007 and is repayable in equal amounts over the loan term.
dividend An interim dividend of 1.0 pence was paid on 21 April 2009. A final dividend of 2.0 pence is proposed bringing the total for the year to 3.0 pence (2008: 2.4 pence). 
Subject to its approval at the Annual General Meeting on 26 November 2009, the final dividend will be payable on 11 January 2010 to shareholders on the register 
on 4 December 2009. 
geoFF wick S
chieF executive oFFicer
