 02
GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
NetNames Platinum Service allows 
organisations and Intellectual Property professionals 
to implement and maintain an effective domain name 
management and online brand protection strategy. 
Customers come from a wide variety of industries 
and include Unilever, Barclays and ladbrokes.com. 
NetNames is an Internet Company for Assigned 
Names and Numbers (ICANN) accredited registrar 
with the ability to register domain names in all available 
suffixes worldwide. NetNames provides comprehensive 
coverage of country code T op Level Domains (ccTLDs) 
such as .de and .es. Following the acquisition of 
Ascio T echnologies in January 2007 NetNames became 
Europe’s largest domain name management specialist. 
NetNames guarantees renewal of domain names 
and provides a secure, high performance Domain 
Name Server (DNS) infrastructure. Platinum Service 
clients also have access to SSL certificates from 
VeriSign to further secure their online presence. 
NetNames provides a domain name acquisition 
service to assist customers in purchasing domain 
names that have been registered by other organisations 
and supports customers during domain name disputes. 
NetNames Platinum Service includes a suite of online 
brand monitoring products. Using Envisional’s 
technology to monitor the Internet, brand violations 
from suspect domain name registrations to brand 
abuse such as auction sites carrying fake consumer 
goods can be identified and action taken. 
Envisional provides automated internet search 
and monitoring services to identify and deal with 
internet based brand abuse, counterfeiting, piracy 
and fraud. Its Discovery Engine can identify, filter 
and prioritise information on websites, blogs, forums, 
newsgroups and Internet Relay Chat. The technology 
applies advanced artificial intelligence techniques 
to the task of classifying information and pinpointing 
the most important findings for clients. 
Customers include banks and insurers, major film 
studios, copyright holders and their trade bodies, 
luxury goods firms, multi-brand corporations and 
the legal firms and marketing agencies that work 
with them. 
Envisional’s brand protection services include: the 
ImageFlare image matching software, providing 
accurate identification of logos and images even 
where a logo has been modified; an eBay monitoring 
service; and a service for companies with large 
networks of affiliates or resellers to enable them 
to ensure compliance. 
Envisional has started to exploit the cross-selling 
opportunities for brand protection services within 
the large NetNames customer base. These products 
– Domain Alert, Domain Monitor, Brand Monitor 
and eBay Auction Monitor – are standard packages 
of services, based on Envisional’s intelligent 
search technology. 
 at a Glance
Our business consists 
of five market 
leading services
Domain name 
management
Brand 
protection
www.netnames.com www.envisional.com GROUP NBT PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
03
The Online Business operates in both 
the consumer and the SME marketplace under 
four brands offering a full range of domain name, 
shared hosting and email services through fully 
transactional websites.
Easily.co.uk has more than 120,000 customers with 
a focus on offering low cost, good quality products 
backed up by exceptional support. The brand 
targets a number of niche markets, including the 
small business start up market, and has strategic 
partnerships with, amongst others, Virgin Media 
and Orange.co.uk, to provide services to their 
customers. More recently it has launched an 
ecommerce package that is targeted at businesses 
making their first steps in trading online.
The Speednames.com brand operates throughout 
Scandinavia, having provided domain name services 
since 2000. Speednames.com offers a wide range 
of domain name suffixes, coupled with excellent 
service. The main focus of Speednames.com is the 
business customer who wishes to secure a number 
of domain names in a variety of overseas markets. 
NetNames and NetBenefit both provide services 
online. Although these brands are targeted at 
customers for managed services they retain unique 
or specialist services for which there is continued 
demand from customers who buy online.
NetBenefit provides managed hosting 
services in the UK and France. It is focused on 
providing reliable and flexible managed hosting 
solutions designed to meet customers’ business 
requirements. Customers range from small start-ups 
looking for scalable solutions that will grow with 
their business requirements to financial services 
companies and major UK retailers for whom just 
minutes of downtime would translate into 
thousands of pounds in lost revenue.
NetBenefit works with customers directly and through 
an indirect channel model comprising digital agencies 
and IT consultancies. NetBenefit partners with 
a number of the UK’s top 100 digital agencies 
providing the hosting for online advertising 
campaigns for some of the world’s most 
recognisable brands. 
Services range from single server solutions to complex 
database clusters, they include high availability or 
disaster recovery solutions through multiple data 
centres allowing the provision of resilient web 
hosting deployed over dual sites. NetBenefit also 
provides Content Delivery Network services; 
backup and recovery services with EVault; and 
virtualisation services which are based upon 
either VMware or Microsoft’s Hyper-V .
NetBenefit’s newest data centre is entirely powered 
by renewable energy . This combined with the adoption 
of virtualisation, where a physical server is split up into 
a number of virtual machines, will allow NetBenefit 
to be more efficient in the way that it uses power 
in its data centres.
Ascio provides a white-label domain name 
registration service for partners such as Internet 
Service Providers (ISPs), Telcos, domain name 
resellers and Intellectual Property law firms. Ascio 
works exclusively through partners with a clear focus 
on providing the premium quality and exceptional 
service that domain name professionals need. 
Ascio’s is an automated service with a broad range 
of ccTLDs. It provides a registration engine that offers 
access to 250 top level domains (TLDs) through 
one standard interface. It is easily integrated into 
any existing order provisioning system using an 
XML-based API or standard email template. 
Ascio has over 300 partners throughout the world 
with particular emphasis on Continental Europe 
and has more than 1,000,000 domains under 
management. Partners include Cable and Wireless, 
Hostpoint and Telenor.
Partners are able to offer their customers a wide 
selection of TLDs without needing to invest in the 
infrastructure required to register names globally.
Ascio also provides powerful, packaged marketing 
campaigns to help its partners stimulate new business. 
These may be topical, themed or geographically 
targeted campaigns in a variety of different 
forms and media.
Online Managed 
hosting
Reseller 
services
www.speednames.com www.netbenefit.com www.ascio.com
www.easily.co.uk
digital
