 group NBT pLC annual report 2010 4
“ Given our large base 
of recurring revenue 
and forward visibility, 
we are confident 
of further good 
growth in this 
financial year, which 
has started well.”
Group n Bt continued to achieve solid revenue 
growth and good profit growth throughout the year 
to 30 June 2010, in market conditions which remained 
challenging. r evenue increased by 6% and underlying 
pre-tax profit increased by 21% thanks to good control 
of cost growth, even as we continued to enhance our 
It infrastructure, lifting underlying operating margin 
by 230 basis points to 18.5%. (t he effect of currency 
movements was insignificant.)
u nderlying diluted epS increased by 18% to 
23.71 pence. all these underlying figures exclude 
amortisation as well as minor restructuring costs 
last year at previous acquisitions. In view of our 
performance and our strong balance sheet, we are 
confident in increasing our final dividend by 40% 
to 2.8 pence, making 4.2 pence for the full year – 
also up 40% from the previous year.
progress was good in our chief business activity, 
managing and protecting portfolios of domain 
names, which represents just over half our revenue. 
In particular we achieved very strong growth in our 
anti-piracy services under the brand name envisional, 
the high-intellect business based in Cambridge 
which we acquired three years ago.
We seized the initiative in saving our domain 
name clients money – for example, by helping large 
clients rationalise their large worldwide portfolios 
of names, and by helping transfer some smaller 
companies to our lower-cost services. n et revenue 
in domain names and brand protection grew by just 
6% over the year, but we have reinforced customer 
loyalty, and are now excellently positioned to profit 
from the continuing structural shift to online commerce.
t he domain name market continues to be very 
attractive with growth set to continue. Changes, likely 
to be agreed later this year, will mean that many more 
domain name extensions will become available. 
t his will help to fuel growth in the coming years.
our other businesses also performed well. We achieved 
7% revenue growth in our managed hosting business 
providing web-hosting to corporate clients and 9% growth 
in our reseller business.
Given our large base of recurring revenue and 
forward visibility, we are confident of further good 
growth in this financial year, which has started well. 
I want to thank t im a shley, who left the Board this 
year, for his unfailing encouragement and his 
technological insight over a whole decade. I am 
delighted to welcome to the Board Martin Bellamy, 
whose formidable record in the private and public 
sectors includes success at some of the uK’s 
toughest It projects.
above all, I thank all our management and staff for 
a fine performance this year.
John parcell
Chairman
chairman’s statement
