 5 group NBT pLC annual report 2010
“ We are pleased 
with this strong 
result that once 
again demonstrates 
our robust business 
model. We have 
been affected by 
the economic 
downturn but we 
are confident that 
we are in a strong 
position to take 
advantage of better 
market conditions.”
Corporate brand services
Group n Bt provides a range of services to companies 
to manage and protect their online presence. t he 
core service is the management of domain names. 
Companies often register large numbers of domain 
names in order to protect their intellectual property 
and managing these can be time consuming and 
complex as domain names are registered in over 
250 jurisdictions worldwide. a dditionally Group 
n Bt helps its customers to protect against online 
fraud, digital piracy, counterfeiting and other online 
infringements of their brands through a range of 
products provided through the n etn ames and 
envisional brands.
revenue for Corporate Brand Services for the 
year under review was £22.0 million, up 6% on 
last year . Within these numbers, revenue for domain 
name management was £20.3 million and revenue 
for brand protection services was £1.7 million. 
n etn ames platinum Service revenue grew 7% during 
the year. t his was impacted by lower one-off revenue 
from project work however the recurring domain 
name management element grew by 9%. 
Growth for domain name management was slower 
than previous years as we continued to experience 
longer lead times to close new business and as we 
worked with our customers to help them optimise 
their portfolios of domain names. We believe this 
responsible practice will help us to maintain our 
customer base for the longer term. o ur Domain 
a cquisition service, where we act for our customers 
to buy names for them in the secondary market, 
grew 21% on the previous year but with the first half 
recording most of this revenue.
envisional’s brand protection services did particularly 
well with revenue for the year to 30 June 2010 
of £1.7 million, up 26% on the previous year. t his 
market remains in its infancy and we believe that 
over time companies will need to spend more on 
protecting their brands. t ypically new sales are to 
companies which do not have a budget for this 
activity and so this result is particularly pleasing 
in these more difficult markets.
Managed hosting
Managed hosting services are provided to 
companies in the u K and France. r evenue for the 
year under review was £6.4 million, up 7% on the 
previous year. We are attracting new customers at 
a good rate as our product range is continually 
updated to keep pace with new technologies. 
However growth has been affected, partly by a higher 
level of cancellations, as some small companies have 
been unable to continue with their services and also 
by projects requiring hosting being delayed. 
partner and reseller services
a scio is our partner and reseller brand offering other 
ISps the ability to register a wide range of domain 
names using our technology and systems. r evenue 
for the year was £8.5 million, up 9% on last year. 
revenue has grown well even though our partners 
have experienced lower growth. We are encouraged 
that we have been able to build our base of partners 
at a faster rate than previously which has helped 
during the year.
I am pleased to report that Group nBt continued to 
grow its business and improve margins in what was 
a challenging year. a lthough revenue growth was 
lower than in previous years, this was in part driven 
by our strategy of taking a longer term view and 
working with our customers to ensure they were 
able to achieve best value wherever possible. t he 
business environment across all our markets was 
difficult as our customers were generally feeling 
the effects of the global recession. However, the 
underlying markets in which we operate remained 
strong with new developments during the year. 
t his is especially so in the domain name market, 
providing good growth opportunities for the future. 
We are particularly pleased with our brand protection 
products which made excellent progress as companies 
become increasingly aware of the need to protect 
their brands in the online market. 
Strategy
We continue with our strategy to build recurring revenue 
by delivering excellent products and high levels of 
service to our customers. t he quality and the resilience 
of this high value revenue has proved itself over the last 
two years. It has helped to ensure that we have a stable 
revenue base in our core markets and provides a platform 
for growth. We have built on our market leading 
position in europe and we will continue to develop 
our market position geographically and through 
service improvement and product enhancement.
Market conditions
t he year under review was particularly difficult as 
customers and prospective customers were generally 
restrained by tighter cost controls. a s a result we 
acquired new customers at a slower rate than normal 
and some of our customers took this opportunity to 
rationalise their portfolios of domain names. More 
positively sales of additional products including 
netnames Brand p rotection products improved.
t owards the end of the last financial year changes 
within the market meant that we had a number of 
new domain name extensions to offer customers. 
t hese changes made little difference to revenue in 
the year under review but will provide opportunities 
for additional revenue in the current year and more 
importantly in subsequent years. 
Financial overview
revenue for the Group was £43.9 million for the 
year to 30 June 2010, up 6% on the previous year 
and up 5% on a constant currency basis. t his 
reduced rate of growth reflects market conditions 
and our strategy to maintain our customer base 
by helping our customers manage costs in these 
difficult markets.
profit before tax and amortisation was £8.1 million, 
up 21% on the previous year and up 20% on a 
constant currency basis.
Cash generation remained strong and at the end of 
the financial year the Group had £11.4 million net cash, 
up from £5.2 million at the end of the previous year .
chief executive’s review group NBT pLC annual report 2010 6
Taxation
a tax charge of £1.7 million (2009: £1.1 million) 
arose in the year representing an effective tax rate 
of 23.2% (2009: 21.1%). t he effective tax rate on 
profit excluding amortisation, restructuring costs 
and related tax credits was 23.5% (2009: 22.3%).
t he effective rate of tax is currently below the uK 
statutory rate of corporation tax of 28% as a result 
of utilisation and recognition of trading losses and 
other timing differences previously unrecognised 
given the uncertainty relating to their recoverability. 
Cash flow
Strong cash generation resulted in net cash balances 
of £11.4 million at year end, up from £5.2 million 
at 30 June 2009.
net cash inflow from operations for the year was 
£9.4 million compared to £7.2 million last year. 
Cash conversion was ahead of last year and the net 
cash position at year end reflects the results of our 
increased efforts to reduce receivables. 
During the year expenditure on tangible fixed assets 
decreased to £1.2 million from £1.5 million last year, 
£0.1 million (2009: £0.2 million) was paid in respect 
of the final tranche of deferred consideration 
relating to the acquisition of envisional and £0.3 million 
(2009: £0.1 million) was received from share 
option exercises. 
a t 30 June 2010, the Group had cash balances of 
£13.4 million (2009: £8.2 million) and debt of £2.0 million 
(2009: £3.0 million) before unamortised facility fees.
Dividend
an interim dividend of 1.4 pence was paid 
on 1 a pril 2010. a final dividend of 2.8 pence is 
proposed bringing the total for the year to 4.2 pence 
(2009: 3.0 pence). Subject to its approval at the 
a nnual General Meeting on 25 n ovember 2010, the 
final dividend will be payable on 14 January 2011 to 
shareholders on the register on 3 December 2010. 
geoff Wicks
Chief Executive officer
partner and reseller services continued
new customers take time to link their systems to 
ours so the sales made to new partners during the 
year under review will have greater impact during 
this current year. We are particularly pleased that we 
have acquired several larger ISps as partners during 
the year. europe continues to be our most important 
market for these services where we focus on higher 
margin business from ISps based more on country code 
domain names which are more complex to manage.
online services
Group n Bt ’s online services register and renew domain 
names and provide hosting and email services through 
the websites of several of our brands, primarily the 
easily brand in the u K and Speednames in europe. 
r evenue for these services for the year under 
review was £7.1 million, 1% down on last year. t his 
improvement on the previous year’s rate of decline 
is in part caused by the movement of some hitherto 
domain name management customers to our online 
business. Without this transfer of business, revenue 
would have reduced by 6%.
We expect this part of our business to continue to 
decline as customers for our legacy brands move, 
however the performance of the easily and Speednames 
brands was significantly better than the other brands. 
profit 
t he overall gross margin of 73.6% was slightly ahead 
of last year’s 73.2% with the revenue mix remaining 
largely unchanged.
u nderlying operating profit, excluding amortisation 
and in the previous year, restructuring costs, at 
£8.1 million, increased 20% year-on-year and 
19% on a constant currency basis with the margin 
increasing to 18.5% from 16.2% last year. t he 
year-on-year change arose from a combination 
of revenue growth with largely unchanged gross 
margins and a relatively modest increase in overheads. 
t his was achieved through careful cost management 
and continuing efficiency gains through process 
improvements. Domain acquisitions continued to 
contribute to operating profits with an increase over 
the previous year which itself was a record year. 
While we believe that the market for valuable domain 
names will continue to be increasingly active this 
revenue is one-off in nature and for larger 
transactions, driven by specific customer activity. 
underlying profit before tax, excluding amortisation 
and restructuring costs, at £8.1 million, increased 
21% year-on-year and 20% on a constant currency 
basis with the margin increasing to 18.6% from 
16.2% last year. 
o n a statutory basis: operating profit was £7.1 million, 
up 42% from £5.0 million last year; profit before tax 
was £7.2 million, up 43% from £5.0 million last year; 
basic epS was 21.48 pence, up 37% from 15.68 pence 
last year; and diluted epS was 20.99 pence, up 37% from 
15.30 pence last year.
chief executive’s review C ontInueD
