 group NBT pLC annual report 2010 2
group nBt at a glance
our business consists of five market leading services…
www.netnames.com www.envisional.com
Domain name management
NetNames platinum Service allows organisations 
and Intellectual property professionals to implement 
and maintain an effective domain name management 
and online brand protection strategy . Customers come 
from a wide variety of industries and include u nilever, 
Barclays and ladbrokes.com. 
netnames is an Internet Company for assigned 
n ames and n umbers (ICann ) accredited registrar 
with the ability to register domain names in all 
available suffixes worldwide. netnames provides 
comprehensive coverage of country code t op l evel 
Domains (cctl Ds) such as .de and .es. Following 
the acquisition of a scio t echnologies in January 
2007 netnames became europe’s largest domain 
name management specialist. 
netnames guarantees renewal of domain names 
and provides a secure, high performance Domain 
n ame Server (Dn S) infrastructure. platinum Service 
clients also have access to SSl certificates from 
VeriSign to further secure their online presence. 
n etn ames provides a domain name acquisition 
service to assist customers in purchasing domain 
names that have been registered by other 
organisations and supports customers during 
domain name disputes. 
n etn ames platinum Service includes a suite of 
online brand monitoring products. using envisional’s 
technology to monitor the Internet, brand violations 
from suspect domain name registrations to brand 
abuse such as auction sites carrying fake consumer 
goods can be identified and action taken.
Brand protection
Envisional provides automated internet search and 
monitoring services to identify and deal with internet 
based brand abuse, counterfeiting, piracy and fraud. 
Its Discovery engine can identify, filter and prioritise 
information on websites, blogs, forums, newsgroups 
and Internet r elay Chat. t he technology applies 
advanced artificial intelligence techniques to the task 
of classifying information and pinpointing the most 
important findings for clients. 
Customers include banks and insurers, major film 
studios, copyright holders and their trade bodies, luxury 
goods firms, multi-brand corporations and the legal firms 
and marketing agencies that work with them. 
envisional’s brand protection services include: the 
ImageFlare image matching software, providing 
accurate identification of logos and images even 
where a logo has been modified; an eBay monitoring 
service; and a service for companies with large 
networks of affiliates or resellers to enable them 
to ensure compliance. 
envisional has started to exploit the cross-selling 
opportunities for brand protection services within 
the large netnames customer base. t hese products 
– Domain a lert, Domain Monitor, Brand Monitor 
and eBay auction Monitor – are standard packages 
of services, based on envisional’s intelligent 
search technology.
designer to check logos 3 group NBT pLC annual report 2010
 
www.ascio.com www.easily.co.uk 
www.speednames.com
www.netbenefit.com
digital
online
The online Business operates in both the consumer 
and the SMe marketplace under four brands offering 
a full range of domain name, shared hosting and email 
services through fully transactional websites.
easily.co.uk has more than 120,000 customers 
with a focus on offering low cost, good quality 
products backed up by exceptional support. 
t he brand targets a number of niche markets, 
including the small business start up market, 
and has strategic partnerships with, amongst others, 
Virgin Media and orange.co.uk, to provide 
services to their customers. More recently it has 
launched an ecommerce package that is targeted at 
businesses making their first steps in trading online.
t he Speednames.com brand operates throughout 
Scandinavia, having provided domain name services 
since 2000. Speednames.com offers a wide range 
of domain name suffixes, coupled with excellent 
service. t he main focus of Speednames.com is the 
business customer who wishes to secure a number 
of domain names in a variety of overseas markets. 
n etn ames and n etBenefit both provide services 
online. although these brands are targeted at customers 
for managed services they retain unique or specialist 
services for which there is continued demand from 
customers who buy online.
Managed hosting
NetBenefit provides managed hosting services in 
the u K and France. It is focused on providing reliable 
and flexible managed hosting solutions designed to 
meet customers’ business requirements. Customers 
range from small start-ups looking for scalable solutions 
that will grow with their business requirements to 
financial services companies and major uK retailers 
for whom just minutes of downtime would translate 
into thousands of pounds in lost revenue.
n etBenefit works with customers directly and through 
an indirect channel model comprising digital agencies 
and It consultancies. n etBenefit partners with a number 
of the u K’s top 100 digital agencies providing the 
hosting for online advertising campaigns for some 
of the world’s most recognisable brands. 
Services range from single server solutions to complex 
database clusters, they include high availability or 
disaster recovery solutions through multiple data 
centres allowing the provision of resilient web hosting 
deployed over dual sites. n etBenefit also provides 
Content Delivery n etwork services; backup and 
recovery services with eVault; and virtualisation 
services which are based upon either VMware or 
Microsoft’s Hyper-V .
netBenefit’s newest data centre is entirely powered 
by renewable energy . t his combined with the adoption 
of virtualisation, where a physical server is split up 
into a number of virtual machines, will allow n etBenefit 
to be more efficient in the way that it uses power in 
its data centres.
reseller services
Ascio provides a white-label domain name 
registration service for partners such as Internet 
Service providers (ISps), t elcos, domain name 
resellers and Intellectual property law firms. ascio 
works exclusively through partners with a clear focus 
on providing the premium quality and exceptional 
service that domain name professionals need. 
ascio’s is an automated service with a broad range 
of cctl Ds. It provides a registration engine that offers 
access to 250 top level domains (tl Ds) through one 
standard interface. It is easily integrated into any existing 
order provisioning system using an XMl-based apI 
or standard email template. 
a scio has over 300 partners throughout the world 
with particular emphasis on Continental europe 
and has more than 1,000,000 domains under 
management. partners include Cable and Wireless, 
Hostpoint and t elenor.
partners are able to offer their customers a wide selection 
of tl Ds without needing to invest in the infrastructure 
required to register names globally.
ascio also provides powerful, packaged marketing 
campaigns to help its partners stimulate new business. 
t hese may be topical, themed or geographically 
targeted campaigns in a variety of different forms 
and media.
designer to check logos
