 5 group NBT pLC annual report 2011
Financial overview
revenue for the Group was £49.5 million for the year to 30 June 2011, up 
13% on the previous year including the impact of the acquisition of Indom, 
a French competitor, in December 2010. excluding the impact of this acquisition, 
Group revenue was £45.7 million, up 4% year-on-year and up 5% on a constant 
currency basis.
underlying profit before tax was £9.6 million, up 18% on the previous year and, 
excluding the impact of Indom, up 9% year-on-year and up 10% on a constant 
currency basis.
Cash generation was particularly good during the year and at the end of the 
financial year the Group had £6.2 million net cash before unamortised facility fees. 
t his compares with £11.4 million at the end of the previous year and includes 
the subsequent acquisition of Indom for £12.0 million in net cash.
Corporate brand services
Group nBt , through its subsidiary netnames, provides a range of services to 
manage and protect companies’ online activities. Companies are able to register 
domain names in over 250 jurisdictions around the world and frequently build 
significant sized portfolios of domain names which, like trademarks, often form 
part of their valuable intellectual property assets. netnames manages these 
portfolios for many companies to ensure that they are registered properly, 
renewed in a timely manner and used appropriately.
additionally, Group nBt helps its customers to protect their brands against 
online fraud, digital piracy, counterfeiting and other online infringements. 
t his range of products is provided by the netnames and envisional brands.
revenue for Corporate Brand Services for the year under review was £23.6 million, 
up 7% on last year , or 9% at constant currency rates and excluding domain acquisitions, 
revenue was up 10% on last year, or 11% at constant currency rates. Within these 
numbers, revenue for domain name management was £21.5 million and revenue 
for brand protection services was £2.1 million. revenue for netnames p latinum 
Service, the Group’s flagship domain name management product, grew 12% 
during the year, 13% at constant currency rates.
Growth for domain name management has improved on the previous year as we 
have seen better levels of new sales and lower levels of cancellations. overall growth 
was held back by lower revenue from domain acquisitions, where we act for our 
customers to buy names for them in the secondary market. Domain acquisitions 
experienced exceptional sales in the year ending 30 June 2010 which, as we 
noted in previous communications, was unlikely to be repeated in the year 
under review.
envisional’s brand protection services did particularly well with revenue for the 
year to 30 June 2011 up 28% on the previous year. not only have we acquired 
some excellent new customers but we have also improved customer retention. 
Growth is also, in part, due to an enhanced product offering, allowing customers 
the ability to remove infringing websites and auctions.
Managed hosting
Managed hosting services are provided to companies in the uK and France. 
revenue for the year under review was £7.0 million, up 10% on the previous year. 
t echnology has played an important role in the improvement of our performance 
as much of our new revenue comes from our new cloud based services. We have 
also experienced an improvement in market conditions which is reflected in higher 
levels of new business.
partner and reseller services
ascio is our partner and reseller brand which offers other ISp s the ability 
to register a wide range of domain names using our technology and systems. 
revenue for the year was £9.0 million, up 6% on last year, or 9% at constant 
currency rates. Some of our larger partners have experienced lower growth 
as a result of the prevailing market conditions which, in turn, affects our revenue. 
We have, however, continued to add new partners at a similar rate to last year 
and this will help to maintain growth rates in the future.
Group nBt is pleased to announce another year of good growth. t he Group 
continued to grow revenue both organically and through acquisition and at the 
same time maintained its margins, despite markets remaining difficult throughout 
the year . our domain name management business was a key focus for development 
and we are particularly pleased with the excellent revenue growth achieved in 
our brand protection business. t here are signs of improving market conditions 
especially for domain name management where the potential for new domain 
name extensions is being pursued vigorously. 
t he Board announced on 23 September that it had agreed terms with newton 
Bidco limited, an investment vehicle owned indirectly by certain funds managed 
by HgCapital llp , in respect of a recommended Cash offer for the Company at 
a price of 550 pence per share, valuing the entire issued and to be issued share 
capital at approximately £153 million. t he Cash offer values the Company’s shares 
at an attractive premium to both the current and recent closing prices at which 
the shares have been traded and exceeds the highest price at which the shares 
have traded at any time in the last ten years. t he Cash offer is to be implemented 
by means of a scheme of arrangement (the Scheme). Investors will be invited 
to approve the Scheme at a Court Meeting and General Meeting, details of which 
have been posted to shareholders. 
Since commencing the strategy of developing a corporate domain name management 
and hosting business nearly a decade ago, the Company has made good progress 
in establishing itself as a market leader in europe. In HgCapital the Board believes 
it has found a partner which will support Group nBt in achieving its commercial 
and strategic objectives and will help it grow both organically by investment and 
through securing acquisition opportunities that would otherwise be beyond its 
current financial resources as a quoted company.
Strategy
our strategy is to build recurring revenue by delivering excellent products 
with a high service content. t his strategy has served us well and will remain 
in place while the markets continue to grow and companies need to outsource 
the management of the services we provide. t his model has been a key part of 
sustaining the steady progress we have made over a number of years. In the year 
under review we achieved good growth in Continental europe and in the uS, 
while maintaining steady growth in our home market. 
Market conditions
Higher levels of new business, combined with lower levels of cancellations, 
indicate some improvement in certain areas of our business although economic 
conditions remain uncertain. as a result, customer activity has not yet reached 
the levels we have seen in previous years. In the domain name management 
market there has been a great deal of interest in the new domain name extensions 
which were finally agreed by ICann in June. Whilst this did not have any impact 
on revenue during the year it did serve to raise awareness of the need to manage 
what are increasingly valuable domain name assets. 
“We have experienced another 
good year and although growth is not 
back to levels seen before economic 
conditions deteriorated we have seen 
some improvement. t he acquisition 
of Indom during the year supports our 
position as a market leader for domain 
name management services in europe 
and we will continue to look for similar 
acquisition possibilities.”
ChiEf ExECUtivE’s REviEw group NBT pLC annual report 2011 6
Cash flow
at 30 June 2011, the Group had net cash balances of £6.2 million (2010: £11.4 million) 
before unamortised facility fees. t his comprised cash balances of £12.4 million 
(2010: £13.4 million) and debt, before unamortised facility fees, of £6.2 million 
(2010: £2.0 million).
Cash conversion remained strong over the year with cash generated from 
operations increasing to £10.7 million including Indom, up from £9.4 million 
last year. Free cash flow, comprising cash flows from operations, interest, tax 
and capital expenditure, was up 9% to £7.8 million from £7.1 million last year 
with tax payments increasing by 68% to £1.9 million.
net cash outflow in connection with the acquisition of Indom was £12.0 million. 
While this was funded mostly through existing cash resources, a £4.5 million 
three-year term loan together with a three-year revolving credit facility of 
£1.5 million, currently undrawn, was secured in December 2010. t his is in 
addition to the existing debt of £1.0 million which is repayable by July 2012.
In February 2011, an unexpected financial loss arose from our primary Danish 
clearing bank filing for bankruptcy following which, after a distribution of 66%, 
£0.3 million of our cash balances were lost. t he bank, which is now under state 
ownership, has announced that the eventual distribution may increase to 84% 
in total but this is subject to a legal process and therefore no further recovery 
has been provided for in the financial statements. t he Group’s policy in respect 
of surplus funds is to distribute them amongst various banks and this policy was 
in place at the time of the bankruptcy.
Dividend
an interim dividend of 1.68 pence was paid on 15 april 2011. as a result of the 
Cash offer, no final dividend is proposed.
geoff Wicks
Chief Executive
partner and reseller services continued
We continue to be focused on Continental europe where we have a resilient 
customer base and we have extended this focus into eastern europe in order 
to drive new business.
online services
Group nBt’s online services register and renew domain names and provide 
hosting and email services through the websites of several of our brands, primarily 
the easily brand in the uK and Speednames in europe. revenue for these services 
for the year under review was £6.1 million, 14% down on last year, or 13% at 
constant currency rates. t he previous year’s result benefited from the transfer 
of some revenue within the Group which did not recur this year. However, we 
expect to experience decline in this segment of the market as we continue 
to concentrate on our managed services.
Indom
Indom, a market leader for the provision of domain name management services 
in France, was acquired by the Group on 14 December 2010. Since the acquisition 
Indom has continued to perform ahead of initial expectations. We have embarked 
on restructuring and integration which will take up to two years to complete. 
over time Group nBt France and Indom will be merged and the Indom business 
will be transferred to the Group’s systems. t his project is progressing well and 
we are already experiencing some of the benefits of the acquisition. t his acquisition 
also brings significant expertise into the Group. Stéphane Van Gelder who will 
manage the Group’s business in France is an expert in the domain name market 
and is the chairman of a key ICann committee.
profit
t he overall gross margin of 73.3% decreased from 73.6% last year . excluding Indom, 
gross margin was 72.6%, below last year’s rate, as the result of relatively small 
changes to the revenue mix.
underlying operating profit at £9.6 million increased 19% year-on-year and 
the margin at 19.5% was up from 18.5% last year. excluding Indom, underlying 
operating profit was up 10% at £8.9 million at a margin of 19.6%. excluding both 
Indom and domain acquisitions, the underlying operating profit grew strongly 
at 16% year-on-year with a margin of 18.0%, up from 16.3%, as overheads 
remained largely flat and revenues grew.
on a statutory basis operating profit was £7.3 million, up 2% from £7.1 million 
last year, and profit before tax was £7.2 million, up 1% from last year . t he amounts 
by which these statutory profit measures were adjusted to arrive at the underlying 
profit measures used, comprise amortisation of intangible assets acquired through 
acquisitions of £1.3 million (2010: £1.0 million) which increased as a result of the 
acquisition of Indom; advisory and professional fees in respect of the acquisition 
of Indom of £0.4 million (2010: nil) which were expensed instead of being capitalised 
in accordance with the revised accounting standard on accounting for acquisitions; 
technical and other one-off costs relating to the integration of Indom of £0.3 million 
(2010: nil); and the unexpected financial loss arising from our Danish bank as 
described below of £0.3 million (2010: nil).
Basic epS was 20.04 pence, down 7% from 21.48 pence last year, and diluted 
epS was 19.46 pence, down 7% from 20.99 pence last year . Both these measures 
were impacted by the adjusting items mentioned above, namely amortisation, 
restructuring costs, acquisition related expenses and the financial loss, which 
in total amounted to £2.3 million compared to £1.0 million last year. 
Taxation
a tax charge of £2.0 million (2010: £1.7 million) arose in the year representing 
an effective tax rate of 28.3% (2010: 23.2%).
t he effective tax rate on underlying profit before tax (excluding amortisation, 
restructuring costs, acquisition related expenses and the financial loss together 
with associated tax credits) was 27.0% (2010: 23.5%). t here were numerous 
factors that drove up the effective rate of tax from last year including the addition 
of Indom. t he main factors were non-uK regions where the effective tax rates 
moved towards higher statutory rates as anticipated; and the proportion of uK 
profits, taxed at a relatively higher rate, increasing within the mix.
ChiEf ExECUtivE’s REviEw continued
