 group NBT pLC annual report 2011 4
ChAiRmAN’s st AtEmENt “t he Company’s strategy is to build 
recurring revenue by delivering excellent 
products with a high service content. 
t his strategy has served the Company 
well and will remain in place while the 
markets continue to grow and companies 
need to outsource the management 
of the services we provide.”
amid the turbulence caused by an offer for the Company I thought it appropriate 
to reflect on the achievements of the Company against the key tenets of our 
growth strategy that I set out in my last statement.
  Focus on strong value-added services for our customers and recurring 
“sticky revenue” for us
  our core offering with these characteristics, netnames p latinum, Brand 
protection and Managed Hosting have grown revenue 13%, 28% and 10% 
respectively. Sales to new customers continue to be challenging as budgets 
are constrained; but once we have secured clients we have been gratified by 
their propensity to increase their spend with us. our focus on these services 
has once again been vindicated by the increasingly competitive environment 
in online domain name sales. revenue in this segment of our business fell by 
14%, a disappointing outcome. It should be noted, however, that this segment 
now accounts for only 12% of our revenue.
  provide our core brand management expertise in multiple geographies 
and through multiple channels 
  Much of the growth in Brand protection has been driven through sales 
to netnames customers. We are particularly excited by the early success 
of the sales to uK customers and the enthusiasm with which our sales 
force internationally has embraced the opportunity to provide this 
additional service.
  Extend our product offering through adding complementary products
  We are constantly adding functionality across all of our offering. I will pick out 
three examples for particular mention. We have launched platinum Manager 
which represents a significant development in the flexibility we afford to our 
customers in the management of their domain name portfolios. at envisional, 
we have added technology to enable Brand protection customers to identify 
pirate websites and to issue “take down” orders. and finally the launch of our 
“cloud” initiative has been a driver of sales in our hosting business. 
 Deploy our capital to extend both geographical and product expertise
  t he acquisition of Indom in France was clearly the major event of the year 
in this area. t he business has performed better than we had anticipated and 
the paris based team is making a very positive contribution to the Group as 
a whole. Furthermore we have been penetrating a number of new territories 
in Central and eastern europe with our reseller products.
  Improve our operations and technology to increase efficiency 
and serve our customers better
  We have invested in the integration of our systems infrastructure to deliver 
a single, robust and scalable platform for the whole Group. t his is a work 
of constant improvement but we have achieved significant milestones during 
the year and we are now managing all new domain name management 
customers from our new platform. t he acquisition of Indom adds a further 
integration project but the system developments and our expertise in such 
projects leaves us confident that we will deliver a strong result.
once again I am pleased to report a year of progress in challenging markets – 
a year in which our underlying earnings (excluding domain acquisitions) grew 
by 15% and our share price by 51% in the year to June 2011.
richard Madden
Chairman
