 group NBT pLC annual report 2011 2
gROUP NBt A t A glANCE
our business consists of five market leading services…
www.netnames.com 
www.indom.com
www.envisional.com
Domain name management
NetNames platinum Service allows organisations 
and Intellectual property professionals to implement 
and maintain an effective domain name management 
and online brand protection strategy . Customers come 
from a wide variety of industries and include unilever, 
Barclays and ladbrokes.com.
netnames is an Internet Company for assigned names 
and numbers (ICann) accredited registrar with the 
ability to register domain names in all available suffixes 
worldwide. netnames provides comprehensive 
coverage of country code t op l evel Domains (cctl Ds) 
such as .de and .es. Following the acquisitions of 
ascio t echnologies in Denmark and InDoM in 
France, netnames became one of europe’s largest 
corporate domain name management specialists. 
netnames guarantees renewal of domain names 
and provides a secure, high performance Domain 
name Server (DnS) infrastructure. p latinum Service 
customers also have access to SSl certificates and 
other providers to further secure their online presence. 
netnames provides a domain name acquisition service 
to assist customers in purchasing domain names that 
have been registered by other organisations and 
supports customers during domain name disputes. 
netnames p latinum Service includes a suite of 
online brand monitoring products. using envisional’s 
technology to monitor the Internet, brand violations 
from suspect domain name registrations to brand 
abuse such as auction sites carrying fake consumer 
goods can be identified and action taken.
Brand protection
Envisional provides automated Internet search and 
monitoring services to identify and deal with Internet 
based brand abuse, counterfeiting, piracy and fraud. 
Its Discovery engine can identify, filter and prioritise 
information on websites, blogs, forums, newsgroups 
and Internet relay Chat. t he technology applies 
advanced artificial intelligence techniques to the task 
of classifying information and pinpointing the most 
important findings for clients. 
Customers include banks and insurers, major film 
studios, copyright holders and their trade bodies, 
luxury goods firms, multi-brand corporations and 
the legal firms and marketing agencies that work 
with them. 
envisional’s brand protection services include: the 
ImageFlare image matching software, providing 
accurate identification of logos and images even 
where a logo has been modified; and a service for 
companies with large networks of affiliates or 
resellers to enable them to ensure compliance. 
envisional has started to exploit the cross-selling 
opportunities for brand protection services within 
the large netnames customer base. t hese products – 
Domain alert, Domain Monitor, Brand Monitor and 
eBay auction Monitor – are standard packages 
of services, based on envisional’s intelligent 
search technology. 3 group NBT pLC annual report 2011
www.ascio.com www.easily.co.uk 
www.speednames.com
www.netbenefit.com
digital
online
The online Business operates in both the consumer 
and the SMe marketplace under four brands offering 
a full range of domain name, shared hosting and email 
services through fully transactional websites.
easily.co.uk has more than 75,000 customers with 
a focus on offering low cost, good quality products 
backed up by exceptional support. t he brand 
targets a number of niche markets, including the 
small business start up market, offering ecommerce 
solutions for trading online. easily.co.uk also has 
strategic partnerships with, amongst others, t esco 
and orange.co.uk to provide online services 
to their customers.
t he Speednames brand operates throughout 
Scandinavia, having provided domain name services 
since 2000. Speednames offers a wide range of domain 
name suffixes coupled with excellent service. t he main 
focus of Speednames is the business customer who 
wishes to secure a number of domain names in a variety 
of overseas markets. 
netnames and netBenefit both provide services 
online. although these brands are targeted at 
customers for managed services they retain unique 
or specialist services for which there is continued 
demand from customers who buy online.
Managed hosting
NetBenefit provides managed hosting services in 
the uK and France. It is focused on providing reliable 
and flexible managed hosting solutions designed to 
meet customers’ business requirements. Customers 
range from small start-ups looking for scalable solutions 
that will grow with their business requirements to 
financial services companies and major uK retailers 
for whom just minutes of downtime would translate 
into thousands of pounds in lost revenue.
netBenefit works with customers directly and through 
an indirect channel model comprising digital agencies 
and It consultancies. netBenefit partners with a number 
of the uK’s top 100 digital agencies providing the 
hosting for online advertising campaigns for some 
of the world’s most recognisable brands. 
Services range from single server solutions to complex 
database clusters, they include high availability or 
disaster recovery solutions through multiple data 
centres allowing the provision of resilient web hosting 
deployed over dual sites. netBenefit also provides: 
Content Delivery network services; backup and 
recovery services with eVault; and virtualisation 
services which are based upon either VMware 
or Microsoft’s Hyper-V .
netBenefit’s newest data centre is entirely powered 
by renewable energy . t his combined with the adoption 
of virtualisation, where a physical server is split up 
into a number of virtual machines, will allow netBenefit 
to be more efficient in the way that it uses power 
in its data centres.
reseller services
Ascio provides a white-label domain name registration 
service for partners such as Internet Service providers 
(ISps), t elcos, domain name resellers and Intellectual 
property law firms. ascio works exclusively through 
partners with a clear focus on providing the premium 
quality and exceptional service that domain name 
professionals need.
ascio is an automated service with a broad range 
of cctl Ds. It provides a registration engine that offers 
access to 250 top level domains (tl Ds) through one 
standard interface. It is easily integrated into any existing 
order provisioning system using an XMl-based apI 
or standard email template.
ascio has over 350 partners throughout the world 
with particular emphasis on Continental europe 
and has approximately two million domains under 
management. partners include Cable and Wireless, 
Hostpoint and t elenor.
partners are able to offer their customers a wide 
selection of tl Ds without needing to invest in the 
infrastructure required to register names globally.
ascio also provides powerful, packaged marketing 
campaigns to help its partners stimulate new business. 
t hese may be topical, themed or geographically 
targeted campaigns in a variety of different forms 
and media.
