 The Group has made excellent progress during the year and 
I am pleased to be able to report another strong set of results.
Results
For the year ended 31 July 2003, operating profit rose by 18% 
to £2.96m (2002: £2.50m) and profit before tax by 20% to
£2.87m (2002: £2.38m), maintaining our record of consistently
high profit growth. While turnover increased by 6% to £86.13m
(2002: £80.98m), this increase does not reflect the Group’s
underlying rate of growth, since we withdrew from a number 
of contracts over the period. This streamlining of our portfolio
followed a review of our contract base to ensure that all contracts
generate an acceptable level of return. GSH’s underlying rate of
growth was significant, with a total of £100.6m of new business
secured during the year. At the year end, our order book stood at
approximately £435m.
During the twelve months, pre-tax margin strengthened to 3.3%,
compared to 2.9% for the previous year. Our cash position
remains very healthy, with net cash balances at £3.8m at the 
year end. 
Operations
The year has seen the Group take some significant steps forward.
We have secured a number of important new contract wins and
customer retention remains very high. Reflecting the success we
have achieved in both expanding the scope of our contracts and
extending average contract terms, we have reorganised the way 
in which we support major clients. All major clients are now
managed by dedicated Key Account Directors. This enables us 
to provide superior service levels and sets the basis for a closer
working partnership. 
We have continued to add to the range of services we offer 
our clients. Our energyplus business, introduced two years ago,
continues to grow strongly. From a standing start, the business
which enables our clients to take advantage of significant cost
savings on their energy expenditure with no loss in efficiency, 
now represents a meaningful proportion of Group turnover. 
The service has potential for our entire customer base and 
we therefore expect its growth rate over the next few years 
to remain high. We have therefore decided to manage energyplus
separately with representation at Group level. The benefits of our
investment in new IT systems in 2001/02 and new IT initiatives
over the year have been very much in evidence. Our systems not
only provide us with the most up-to-date information in real time
but also enable our clients to access management information via
our in-house developed portal. We firmly believe our emphasis on
using the latest information and communication technology helps
to underpin our high service standards as well as ensure that we
operate with maximum efficiency as a Group. We view staff
training and product innovation in the same light and these will
remain cornerstones of our growth plans. 
The Future 
The Group’s history goes back to 1895 when my grandfather
started the business. Now, over 100 years later, I am proud to be
able to say that GSH has established itself as a leading provider of
facilities management services in the UK, providing consistently
superior service levels. Our client base today, which includes many
leading blue chip companies, such as Land Securities Trillium,
Hewlett Packard and HBOS, reflects our increasing success. It is
also pleasing to note that our growth to date has been achieved
organically.
The Group’s prospects remain very encouraging. Outstanding bids
at present total in excess of £300m and we are ahead of targeted
revenue growth for 2004. In particular, energyplus represents an
exciting new income stream and we expect it to continue to grow
vigorously. This, together with our record of success in winning
new bids and the highly visible nature of our earnings, gives me
great confidence of reporting another year of excellent progress. 
Finally, I would like to thank all our staff for their energy and
commitment over the year. GSH’s continuing success is based 
on their hard work and contribution. 
Ian Scarr-Hall
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
“The Group has made excellent progress during the year, 
with profit before tax rising by 20%. ”
04 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003
2003 Achievements
■ Excellent organic growth.
■ Profit before tax up by 20% to £2.9m.
■ Record level of new business secured over year.
■ Very healthy order book at £435m at 31 July 2003.
■ Prospects remain very encouraging.
