 Introduction
The year to 31 July 2003 saw continuing strong organic growth
across all our markets and our excellent results maintain our
track record of double-digit profit growth. Over the period, we
secured 319 new contracts, worth approximately £100.6m in
total and maintaining our target of winning one in three new
bids. The total number of contracts the Group now manages
stands at 1,731. 
Significant new contract wins include, Hewlett-Packard, Diageo,
Hilton Hotels and the Office of Public Works in Ireland which
covers 7million sq ft of government buildings.
Our success in the management of clients’ complex service
requirements is reflected in our high level of contract retentions
and extensions. HBOS has extended its partnership with us to
the end of 2006. We now manage over 2million sq ft of HBOS
properties in England, Wales and Ireland. Our contract with T-
Mobile has been expanded to incorporate all of T-Mobile’s base
stations in over 6,000 locations. Marks & Spencer has expanded
our portfolio to include the North West region in addition to the
Midlands, Wales, Scotland and Ireland, taking the total number
of stores that we manage to over 190. Our work with Land
Securities Trillium for the Department for Work and Pensions
has been highly successful and reflecting this, our contract has
been extended to a new term of 14 years. 
Business Development
Our focus remains on enhancing our service offering and 
its delivery and, during the year, we introduced a number 
of important new initiatives in both these areas. 
Reorganisation
An important operational change this year was the roll out of
Dedicated Client Teams across all our major contracts. These
Teams, headed by Key Account Directors, complement our
existing service network. Each Team operates with a high
degree of autonomy and is well positioned to manage contracts
on any scale, national or international. Most importantly, this
approach promotes a closer working relationship with our major
clients and feedback has been very positive indeed. Clients who
now benefit from this new approach include British Airways
Avionic Engineering, Merrill Lynch and Tesco.
New Services
The year saw us continue to make very good progress in further
enhancing the range of services we offer. While we continue to
use sub-contractors to deliver certain services, we now provide 
a wider range of services as principal, allowing for margin
improvement. Reviewing our progress over the year, it has been
encouraging to see that a significant portion of our growth has
been as a result of add-ons to existing contracts and I expect 
the increasing breadth of our service offering to support our
success in this area. 
Our energy management service, energyplus, which we
introduced as a branded product two years ago, continued 
to make excellent progress over the period. The service 
enables us to offer clients significant cost savings on their
energy expenditure as well as other benefits. Savings, which 
we can guarantee, are achieved using our expertise in
engineering and property & asset management. Clients benefit
not only from reduced energy costs but also higher service
standards, which invariably exceed recognised ‘best practice’. 
We are very excited by the tremendous growth potential of
energyplus and over the year secured new contracts worth a
total of £4.4m. Our energyplus clients now include Carpetright,
Sheraton Hotels and American International University.
Chief Executive’s Review
“I am excited at the opportunities ahead and confident 
that we will achieve our objectives in the coming year.”
GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003  05
2003 Achievements
■ Significant wins include: Hewlett Packard, HBOS and New Jersey Transit Company.
■ High level of contract extensions, including Marks & Spencer and T -Mobile.
■ Continuing excellent growth of energyplus, our energy management service.
■ Product offering enhanced.
■ Ahead of target revenue growth for 2004. Technology and Staff Training
We have always believed that in order to deliver first class
service levels and ensure a solid platform for continuing
successful growth, it is important to invest in new technology
and staff development.
The new ICT systems implemented over the last financial year
are now yielding real benefits. We have continued with our
programme to enhance functionality and, during the period,
introduced new initiatives. Our data gathering and analysis has
been strengthened, enabling us to mobilise new contracts 
faster and improve asset lifecycle management. Operational
information is now available in real-time and access is more
flexible. Information can be delivered via hand-held computers,
extranets and our global wide area network. This means that, 
at the point of delivery, the most current information is always
to hand. We have also enabled our clients to access
management information via our portal, improving visibility 
of our service delivery. In October 2003, we were delighted 
to appoint Maxwell Segal as Group Technology & Innovations
Director. Maxwell, who joined GSH in 2001 and has over 24
years of IT experience, is now responsible for the design, 
delivery and maintenance of the Group’s ICT strategy. 
As an Investors in People accredited Group, we focus on
training at all levels within the Group. Our fast-track graduate
development programme attracted some excellent candidates
this year and continues to provide the platform of opportunity
for ambitious young professionals. Alongside this, our
management development programme enables our employees
to develop their skills in a structured way, with all the necessary
support and guidance. 
Awards 
In October 2003, we were delighted to win the IMBM British
Building Maintenance Award 2003 for Energy Management.
Our service was commended for its innovation and high levels 
of customer satisfaction. During the period under review, we
also received our ISO 14001 accreditation and the prestigious 
Energy Star Partnership award (a symbol often seen on white
goods). We are one of the first companies in our industry to
receive this recognition.
Prospects
Much has been achieved during the year in all aspects of the
business. I am very pleased with the significant contract wins
we have made, the Group’s level of profitability and the overall
shape of the business. The management team is highly
experienced and our operational and administrative teams
second to none.
With our strong operational delivery, tight financial controls and
importantly, excellent client base, we have a strong platform to
build on going forward.
Our strategy is to continue to establish long-term relationships
with blue chip clients. We will continue to differentiate
ourselves by our innovative use of technology and our
energyplus programme. We remain totally committed to
developing long-term, multi service contracts throughout 
our geographic marketplaces.
I am excited at the opportunities ahead and confident that we
will achieve our objectives in the coming year. With our range 
of product offering and geographical coverage, I believe we are
ideally placed to take full advantage of the expanding facilities
management marketplace.
Colin Tennent
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s Review cont.
“I am very pleased with the significant contract wins we have
made, the Group’s level of profitability and the overall shape
of the business.”
06 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003
