 Our Group at a Glance
GSH’s core strengths lie in its professional 
skills and cutting edge technology.
02 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Our Offer
GSH is a leading provider of facilities management services
in the UK. The Group operates from a network of offices
across Great Britain and Ireland and undertakes every
aspect of facilities management, tailoring contracts to
clients’ individual requirements. GSH also has a presence 
in the United States and Continental Europe.
The Group advises clients in a range of sectors, including
banking, industrial, retail, media, telecomms and 
manufacturing as well as governmental. Our contracts are
scaleable and we also offer existing customers an innovative
energy management service, which provides guaranteed 
savings on energy expenditure. 
Our expertise is based on substantial experience and 
knowledge of clients’ requirement and we have a well-
established reputation for delivering first class service levels.
The range of services we offer encompasses: 
■ Building Engineering
■ Energy Management
■ Environmental Services
■ Fabric Maintenance
■ Helpdesk
■ Landscaping
■ Security
■ Specialist & General Cleaning
■ Waste Management
Training & Staff Development
We place great importance on staff development and GSH was
one of the first facilities management companies to attain an
Investors in People accreditation. We pay considerable attention
to training at all levels in the Group, from graduate level through
to management, so that employees are able to develop their 
skills in a structured way. We also provide one of the best 
trade apprenticeship training programmes in our industry. 
Our culture fosters professionalism and integrity and we 
were delighted when a recent Investors in People assessment
praised our “innovative programme”.  Our Technology
Over recent years, we have made significant investment in 
our operating systems and have adopted and integrated
new technologies. 
Our clients now benefit from tailored solutions that utilise the
latest information and communication technology. Management
information is held in real-time and can be accessed remotely
via a secure on-line connection. Wireless hand-held devices
enable both our staff and clients to retrieve information and
update files whenever and wherever it is required. 
We believe our powerful combination of exceptional people and
cutting edge technology will continue to ensure that our service
levels remain the highest in our industry. 
Lying at the heart of GSH’s systems is Maximo. Delivered 
over a dedicated and private data network, contract data 
is available to staff, operatives and clients alike.
GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003  03
Vehicle Management 
GSH tracks its fleet of operatives’ vehicles via a Global
Positioning System (GPS). This enables our helpdesk to rapidly
locate engineers by skill and proximity to a work request. As
well as speeding up our response times, we can also provide
clients with estimated times of arrival and other key benefits.
With effective logistics management, our vehicle tracking
capability also means that we can reduce our own operational
costs. All in all, this makes the GSH mobile fleet more efficient
and more cost effective.
2003: Award for Information and 
Communications Technology
