 04 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Introduction
2004 was another strong year for the group, both financially and
operationally. 
Our growth has been accelerated by listening to our marketplace. We
have reflected customer demand for an integrated FM and contract
energy management service that is available nationwide. 
We continue to differentiate ourselves by our innovative use of
technology and excellence in service delivery and I am pleased to
report another year of growth in both turnover and profits.
Operations
Our approach has always been one of total commitment to our
customers. We understand that every business is different, having an
individual history, matrix of products and profile of its own customers
and therefore each customer requires a unique strategy to deliver its
FM requirements.
During the year we secured a total of 200 new contracts worth £105
million, giving us a total number of contracts under management of 1,076.
In particular, we have won new contracts for HP and Diageo, providing
a wide range of FM services including energyplus for Diageo.
We place a great deal of emphasis on client retention and it is an
important element to our strategy. Relationships with many of our
customers go back over many years and this is reflected in our rates of
contract renewal and enhancement. Of the top ten contracts (by
revenue) during the year to 31 July 2004, I am pleased to report that
half of these contracts were represented by renewed contracts. Also
this year, we have focused on enhancing our range of services which
has resulted in the expansion and extension of a number of existing
contracts. 
Our contract with HBOS goes from strength to strength. We have
continued to expand the range of services that we are providing to
them and in April this year we were awarded a further contract for the
provision of mechanical and electrical services for approximately 1,400
retail branches in England, Ireland and Wales. 
The T-Mobile contract is another good example of the strength of our
client relationships. In February 2004 we secured a further contract to
supply T-Mobile with mobile emergency generator units throughout
the UK.
We have continued to invest in our cutting-edge ICT systems ensuring
that our data management systems continue to lead the market. The
system has been implemented over the last two years and is now
bringing significant benefits to the group. This year we completed the
roll-out of Blackberry hand held technology units and developed
convergent ‘real time’ delivery models. 
Another recent product innovation has been the launch of an online
statutory compliance monitoring product — “the virtual log book”. This
product is linked directly to our Maximo system and enables customers
to search for, interrogate and print electronically stored statutory
certificates relating to the plant and properties managed by the group.
We will continue to develop this product by adding additional
functionality but early indications from clients have been very positive.
energyplus
Our contract energy management solution, energyplus, was formally
launched in January 2004 and we have won a number of new
contracts in the period including Ikea and Diageo. Energy management
accounted for approximately £7.8 million of turnover in the period
compared with £4.7 million in 2003.
An increased emphasis in the FM marketplace is now being placed on
energy efficiency through increasing legislation, and this represents a
significant opportunity for GSH. We are already maximising
opportunities to cross-sell this service to existing clients and, given the
changing marketplace, we remain confident of the growth potential
for this important product.
We are constantly refining and developing multi-service, tailor-made
packages for clients. Energy management will be a key customer
requirement going forward and we believe we have competitive
advantage as the market evolves.
International
Our overseas businesses in Continental Europe and the USA have
performed well and our international business now accounts for 20%
of group turnover.
Our business in the USA has been growing steadily since we first
opened an office in Chicago in 1996. Since then we have built up a
strong business and we now operate a total of 115 contracts in the
USA. This year we were delighted to be awarded our first contract in
New York City. The company has been awarded the facilities
maintenance contract for the new global headquarters of blue-chip
Chief Executive’s Review
Key Highlights 2004
/ £105m new contract wins including J D Williams, Ikea and Diageo
/ A number of key contract renewals and extensions
/ Formal launch of innovative energyplus
/ Established national contact centre
/ Launch of “Virtual Log Book”
“We continue to differentiate ourselves by our innovative
use of technology and excellence in service delivery . . .” GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05
property management company, The Gale Company, based on 5th
Avenue in mid-Manhattan. 
In Europe we won a significant number of new contracts, including
KPN Cyber Center, Orange and The Sheraton Hotel, Schiphol Airport.
Customer Relationship Management
Last year we completed an important operational change in the roll-
out of dedicated client teams across all our major contracts. Each
account is headed by a Key Account Director in order to interface with
the client at a strategic level. National service delivery is managed from
an operational headquarters located usually within the vicinity of the
customer’s premises. 
This approach has been well received by customers. On a day-to-day
basis there are clear benefits from a single overall point of contact and
strong communications between GSH staff and their customer
counterparts. 
This is further enhanced by our integrated IT solutions ensuring
customer, account management and operatives can quickly access up-
to-date job status information.
We have established a National Mobilisation Team to ensure a seamless
and fast start-up on contracts.
National Contact Centre
Utilising new and best of breed software we have developed a
National Contact Centre at our Head Office in Stoke-on-Trent. This
provides helpdesk facilities with 24/7 coverage, 365 days a year across
the group’s contract base in the UK, Eire and USA.
Training
As a group we invest an average of 15% of our profit into a dedicated
training fund. Training is key to our service delivery at all levels within
the business and to promote this we operate an apprentice scheme,
graduate trainee scheme and mentoring process. As a result, our staff
retention far exceeds the industry average.
Our apprentices are offered comprehensive training programmes to
make sure they all gain key skills. This scheme is a key investment in
the future for GSH as we bring people through the business who have
been properly trained in modern FM practices in line with our overall
development strategy. 
Awards
Accreditation is an important way of recognising our efforts and
achievements and is valued both internally by our employees and
externally by our clients. This year we were delighted to become the
joint winner of the e-business award at The National Business Awards.
One of our employees also won the Apprentice of the Year Award and
was highly commended by the BIFM in the e-business category. 
For the second consecutive year our ICT system won the Sentinel ICT
Award for Innovation. 
Current Trading and Prospects
The new financial year has started well and will benefit from a number
of significant contracts that were won or renewed in the year to
31 July 2004. Our firm contracted order book already stands at £491.7
million. This does not take into account new business that will be
added throughout the year, contract renewal or any additional works
on existing contracts that historically has amounted to an additional
56% of firm contracted revenue.
Since the period end we have won a number of new contracts
including a five year contract to manage two million square feet of
retail locations on behalf of Standard Life, which includes the 
Whiteleys Shopping Centre in Queensway, London and the Churchill
Centre in Brighton.
Our market is constantly changing and we anticipate over the next few
years that full FM contracts will become more prevalent as customers
seek to simplify their FM structure. GSH is well positioned to take
advantage of the significant opportunities this trend offers as 
contracts become larger and more complex and cover an increasing
number of sites.
Colin Tennent
Chief Executive Officer
31 July 2004
42
TESCO
5
M&S
7
L S TRILLIUM
11PRUDENTIAL
8
2
DIAGEO
5
HBOS
1
HP
21
4
T MOBILE
THORNTONS
AT&T
Our longest standing customer has
been with us for 42 years!
