 2 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004 02 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman’s Statement
GSH: Innovation drives us
“GSH has continued its excellent progress
in the year and has been awarded a
significant number of new contracts.”
I am pleased to report that the last year has been a very successful one
for GSH Group with further growth in both turnover and profits.
At GSH success is not just measured in financial terms, but also in
growth and development of the group, delivering against our strategic
goals and also in terms of our people, as good results are a reflection
of their skill and hard work.
Financial Results
Group turnover has increased 18.2% over the period to £101.8 million
and was achieved despite our strategic withdrawal from a number of
underperforming contracts. Operating margins have improved as our
energy management related turnover starts to build and the effects of
our restructuring in the previous year have a positive effect.
Profit after tax in the year to 31 July 2004 was £2.05 million and our
order book stands at £491.7 million.
Our business is consistently cash generative and cash reserves at the
year end were £5.5 million. 
Trading Review
GSH provides a comprehensive range of bespoke facilities
management solutions and operates in the top tier in its marketplace
with the highest levels of service delivery capability.
GSH has continued its excellent progress in the year and has been
awarded a significant number of new contracts as well as expanding
the scope of a number of existing contracts and extending average
contract terms.
The group’s ongoing strategy is focused on the growing trend towards
contracted-out FM, currently a highly fragmented market which is
estimated to be worth £59.3 billion in the UK and growing at an
annual rate of 3%. 
Board Changes
I was pleased to announce, in  July 2004, a strengthening of the
management team with the appointment of two main board directors. 
Bob Gilbert will take on the role of Non-Executive Chairman and I will
continue to serve on the board in the non-executive role of Group
President. Bob is a highly experienced, senior corporate lawyer and is
the former chairman of Everest Foods and Plumb Holdings plc. 
Rob Painting joins the board as a Non-Executive Director. Rob is a
Chartered Accountant and has spent more than 20 years in senior
positions with blue-chip companies, including 15 years as Finance
Director of Keller plc. 
These appointments are in line with the group’s strategy as we grow
and develop, to bring new skills and expertise to the board to support
our ambitious growth plans.
People
Across the group I am encouraged by the quality and enthusiasm of
the people in our business. In a business that relies on collaborative
working and innovative solutions, it is critical that we have the right
team who are well trained and motivated to continue to deliver
excellent results and the superior level of service our customers have
grown to expect.
Our employees are key to the group’s success and I would like to thank
each and every one for their considerable efforts in making this such a
successful year. 
Outlook
The group enters the new year in a strong financial position. Our order
book stands at £491.7 million and we have a full pipeline of
opportunities. As the market continues to grow and develop, GSH
remains at the forefront offering innovative value added services.
We have a team of directors who bring considerable experience,
knowledge and skill to the business and I look to the future with
confidence and to delivering another period of progress and growth.
Ian Scarr-Hall
Chairman
31 July 2004 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3 GSH Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004 03
Our range of services:
/ BUILDING ENGINEERING
/ ENERGY MANAGEMENT
/ ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
/ FABRIC MAINTENANCE
/ HELPDESK
/ LANDSCAPING
/ SECURITY
/ SPECIALIST & GENERAL CLEANING
/ WASTE MANAGEMENT
Our Technology:
Sophisticated, comprehensive and robust information
and communications technologies sit at the heart of
every GSH contract. As the industry moves towards the
delivery of full-service FM contracts, our centralised
global facilities management system continues to give
us a competitive edge. We have invested significantly
in our operating systems and new integrated
technologies, which not only improve our own
operational efficiencies but also enable us to further
improve customer service levels, saving our customers
time and money.
Training & Staff Development:
Our staff are key to the group’s success and training is
vital to our service delivery at all levels within the
business. Staff are motivated to achieve excellence
through our innovative training and there is a
comprehensive programme for every employee at
every level. GSH is a true investor in people. We have
developed our commitment to all staff, identifying
good practice results in continuous improvement. All
employees are actively encouraged to develop through
the company.
