 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 GSH Group plc 03
Chairman’s Statement
This is my first report as Chairman in what has been an
important year for the company. After 110 years as a private
company the group was successfully admitted to the
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) on 21 April 2005.
Colin Tennent, CEO, and David Simons, CFO, have worked
closely together over the last 5 years delivering outstanding
growth, profitability and cash generation for the group and 
I am very pleased to be working alongside them. The non-
executive directors bring a wealth of experience and I would
like to take this opportunity to thank the board for their support.
Financial Results 
I am delighted to report another very strong trading
performance and another year of record results. Group
turnover has increased by 16% to £118.6 million (2004: 
£101.8 million) and profit before tax (and flotation expenses)
has increased by 27% to £4.5 million (2004: £3.5 million).
The business continues to be cash generative with a cash flow
from operating activities of £6.1 million (2004: £4.1 million)
and cash reserves at the year end of £6.3 million. 
Trading Review
During the year significant progress has been made in
developing and upgrading our range of services and client
delivery and the group has been awarded a number of 
major contracts. 
We have seen substantial growth in the UK, particularly from
sales of energyplus, our contract energy management
solution, which increased 141% in the period. In addition, we
have continued to enhance the scope and length of existing
contracts where possible. Examples are our contracts with
Hewlett Packard which has now been extended from 1 to 5
years, and T Mobile where the original contract of 3.5 years
has been extended by a further 5 years.
I am also pleased to report strong growth in our international
businesses during the year. The US operation has added two
significant contracts including GVA Williams and, since the
year end, Douglas Developments Corporation. As a direct
result of new business wins, the group now employs over 100
people in the US. Our Benelux operations have also achieved
a major milestone by winning their first contract worth over 
£1 million per annum. This is with Schiphol Airport and is
currently for three years.
The group’s strategy remains focused on the growing trend
towards contracted-out facilities management with an
estimated market worth £96 billion in the UK, growing in the
year to March 2005 by 5%.
People
One of the main reasons for the flotation of the group was to
retain and reward existing employees and continue to attract
high quality new staff. We have a strong management team
across all our operating divisions with well-qualified and
experienced technical staff delivering the various services we
provide. Over 300 of our employees either own shares or
have share options in the group. 
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all our staff for
their valued contribution during the period. They are key to
our success and our good results are a reflection of their hard
work and efforts.
Outlook
The group enters the new year in a strong financial position,
with a good business pipeline in all of the markets in which
we operate. I believe that we are in a very strong position and
there are many exciting opportunities ahead for both organic
and acquisitive growth.
This has been an excellent start to life as a listed company
and I am confident that with the support of my board and the
staff, we will deliver further progress and growth in the future.
Bob Gilbert
Non-Executive Chairman
18 November 2005
“I am delighted to report another very
strong trading performance and another
year of record results.” 04 GSH Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Training & Development
Our staff are key to the group’s success and training is vital to
our service delivery at all levels within the business. Staff are
motivated to achieve excellence through our innovative
training and there is a comprehensive programme for every
employee at every level. GSH is a true investor in people. 
We have developed our commitment to all staff, identifying that
good practice results in continuous improvement. All employees
are actively encouraged to develop through the group.  Our Client Base
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 GSH Group plc 05
Netherlands
Amsterdam
Eindhoven
Hoofddorp
Rotterdam
Utrecht
USA
New Jersey
Virginia
UK
Nationwide with
Head Office in 
Stoke-on-Trent
Ireland
Belfast
Dublin
Belgium
Brussels
We pride ourselves on our blue-chip client base.
YOUR
M&S Forum for the Future
06 GSH Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
GSH is at the forefront of sustainable development in the
facilities management sector, becoming the first major player
in the sector to join forces with Forum for the Future as a
Foundation Corporate Partner. 
Forum for the Future is recognised as the UK’s leading
sustainable development charity. Their mission is to promote
sustainable development and to educate different groups 
in sustainable development, in order to accelerate the
building of a sustainable way of life, taking a positive
solutions-oriented approach. They work with businesses, 
local authorities, government, regional bodies and universities
to build their capacity to overcome the many barriers to more
sustainable practice. Their aim is for nothing less than
transformation — irreversible change towards sustainability.
Working closely with the Forum, GSH will embrace the
implications of sustainability in all areas of corporate activity
and at all levels. 
