 Chief Executive’s Review
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 GSH Group plc 07
“We are now in a stronger position,
both operationally and financially, than
at any other time in our long history.”
Introduction
2005 was yet another excellent year for the group. We are
now in a stronger position, both operationally and financially,
than at any other time in our long history.
The key to this success is our focus on the continued
provision of innovative solutions for our customers
underpinned by the quality and commitment of our people. 
Operations
UK
In 2003 we restructured the business to recognise the
customer requirements in different market sectors. In 2004 
we refocused this business, exiting the very small contracts
and refining its branch structure. This has worked
exceptionally well and in 2005 we have seen improving
margins and cash flow.
We have redefined our client dedicated service delivery
model to our larger clients such as HBOS, HP , Channel 4 and
many others. This continues to go from strength to strength
with turnover growth of 31% and client retention of 94%. Our
Regional business ensures that we retain the opportunity to
grow the smaller contracts through targeted marketing efforts.
International
I am particularly pleased with the progress made by our
overseas businesses in Continental Europe and the USA.
International now accounts for 16% of group turnover, an
increase on last year.
In the USA, our order book has increased during the year
from $33 million to $63 million representing 14 new contracts
awarded in the period.
In April 2005 we were appointed by GVA Williams, a privately
held real estate advisory services firm, to provide
maintenance services to commercial office buildings on the
eastern seaboard. In addition, we have been awarded a
contract to supply services under the General Services
Administration (GSA) Federal Supply schedule, effective
August 2005. 
We have also recently been awarded an energy management
contract with IKEA at its flagship store in Elizabeth, New
Jersey. The agreement is an extension of GSH’s successful
working relationship with IKEA in the UK and demonstrates
our expanding international capability. 
We have also seen robust growth from our businesses in the
Netherlands and Belgium where the combined order book
has grown by 25% to €113 million. In Amsterdam, we were
awarded a 3 year contract with Schiphol Airport servicing
275,000 square metres of the buildings. This is a prestigious
contract for the group, worth over £1 million, and a major
appointment for our European business.
energyplus
In June 2005 we launched our new Energy Bureau, designed
to maximise conservation and improve sustainability and help
businesses in the UK and Republic of Ireland tackle soaring
energy costs.
This facility is an in-house centre of excellence devoted to
improving clients’ energy performance and to help counter
the wholesale price increases in gas and electricity of 60% and
50% respectively in the past year. 08 GSH Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Our new Energy Bureau has been created to focus entirely on
GSH’s energy management products for our clients. 
The Energy Bureau’s staff will, as part of an energyplus
contract, reduce a client’s energy consumption through a
combination of increased energy awareness and the
maintenance of their buildings’ internal conditions. They can
advise on and then install and manage investment in energy
saving devices, building management systems, metering,
monitoring and lighting controls.
Energy Bureau
Jan
Dec
Innovative Energy Tracking
The Energy Bureau monitors all aspects of energy usage
utilising custom-built processes and systems.
Consumption (k/W)
GSH energyplus guarantees reduced consumption
previous consumption
consumption with GSH energyplus Annual Report & Accounts 2005 GSH Group plc 09
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
The opening of the Bureau coincides with new legislation
designed to support efficient sustainable building
management. In January 2006, the European Energy
Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD), and new Part L
Building Regulations are due to come into force. The effect
will be to tighten the requirements for record-keeping and
introduce energy certification of buildings. From a corporate
reporting perspective, UK quoted companies face greater
transparency in the reporting of environmental issues. 
Sustainability
GSH is at the forefront of sustainable development in the FM
sector becoming the first major player in the sector to join
forces with Forum for the Future as a Foundation Corporate
Partner. The Forum’s Business Partners are selected according
to their commitment to continuous improvement of
their environmental and social performance and include
Marks & Spencer, HBOS and Vodafone Group among others.
Working closely with the Forum, GSH will embrace the
implications of sustainability in all areas of corporate activity
and at all levels. The Forum has an international reputation for
driving improvements in the sustainability performance of
businesses. GSH will gain expertise in good sustainability
practice which will be implemented internally and shared with
its extensive client base
Innovation
Innovation in our service delivery and technology is a core
differentiator for GSH. We continue to drive new services
and imaginative use of Information and Communications
Technology (ICT) to provide our clients with value-added
services that deliver genuine benefits.
During this past year we have introduced several new initiatives
including web-based statutory certification, environment
monitoring and balanced scorecard reporting. As with all our
ICT -based services, these are delivered from our centralised and
integrated contract management system, Maximo. 
Our Statutory Logbook system provides on-line storage and
interrogation of statutory certificates against building and
assets, an important facility for our customers. 
All of this information is available on-line and in real-time 24
hours per day to our clients through our Portal technology,
which has been upgraded to provide simpler access to
more information and has been extended to incorporate
new services.
A number of state-of-the-art service initiatives are available
via our new Energy Bureau including: electronic bill
processing, half-hourly data collection and a ’dashboard’
demonstrating utility performance at site. Real-time data
retrieval is also carried out. 
In addition, we have developed a ‘Smart Box’ that can be
fitted at site to monitor all utility readings and any other items
of mechanical or electrical equipment. This is particularly
useful for critical equipment or remote locations.
continued overleaf
energyplus
The Carbon Trust estimates that approximately £12 billion
worth of energy is wasted in the UK every year.
Energy has risen to the top of the facilities management
agenda as a result of rising prices combined with a raft of
measures from the Government and EC. According to the
UK Government’s Energy White Paper, energy performance
is set to become a commercial priority in the pursuit of a
low carbon economy. In January 2006 the EC’s European
Energy Performance of Buildings Directive will introduce
compulsory energy certification and change the way
buildings are operated.
Consequently, businesses need to improve their energy
performance and energyplus has been developed to meet
this need.
energyplus is an innovative consumption saving, energy
management service that guarantees our clients a minimum
of 5% consumption saving (at no cost to them) whilst reducing
their carbon emissions by approximately 15%.
Typically we carry out an initial analysis of a building’s energy
usage, costs and requirements based on parameters such as site
occupancy rates, function and the level of energy hungry plant. 
Over the course of the contract, energy consumption levels
are reduced by a combination of the promotion of energy
awareness and the maintenance of the building’s internal
conditions. Where appropriate, we advise on making
investment in energy-saving devices such as building
management systems and metering, monitoring and
lighting controls. Our Technology
10 GSH Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
  Flexible contact centre
  Transparent performance reporting
  Accurate asset management
  Reduced mobilisation timescales
  Standardised platform for further innovations
  Swift job delivery and closure
  On-line real-time tailored reporting
  Statutory compliance
  Environmental monitoring Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 GSH Group plc 11
Smartbox is one of our key environmental monitoring
innovations. Linked through GPRS wireless technology,
Smartbox monitors, for example, lighting usage, security,
temperatures and humidity. Information is collected centrally
and available for interrogation through our Portal and wireless
Blackberry hand-held devices. Consequently, our customers
are always aware of how buildings under our management 
are performing.
People
Always following the principles of our Investor in People
status, we continue to encourage and support individuals
and teams in their career development and the last financial
year has seen a great deal of progress on the drive to
continually improve our employee development programmes.
All levels of employees have benefited from both
improvements to existing initiatives and some exciting new
programmes launched this year.
Our recognition by the Sunday Times in their survey, Top
Companies To Work For, is a ratification of our continued
commitment to be the best employer in the FM industry.
One of the cornerstones of our success is our cutting
edge technology.
We have invested significantly in our business operating
systems and in new integrated reporting and wireless
technologies. Our information and communication
technologies are sophisticated, comprehensive and robust.
We operate a centralised international private data network,
utilising the latest internet and wireless technologies. 
Maximo, a world-renowned facilities management system, is
our core business and contract operations system. We run
Maximo centrally and are able to deliver contract
management and our innovative technologies internationally,
connecting all GSH and client sites. 
This enables improved reporting throughout the business with
real-time visibility of job and asset status. This means that
customers are better informed about the facilities management
status of their property portfolio than ever before.
Current Trading and Prospects
The group operates as a subcontractor providing engineering
services to the BBC. During the year the BBC initiated a
procurement exercise covering our services plus all their other
facilities management activities. As is often the case on such
contracts, there is a likelihood that we will remain at the BBC
working for their preferred partner.
I am pleased with the year’s results and we go into the new
financial year with confidence. Our contracted order book
stands at £482 million and since the year end we have won
new contracts with My Travel and Iron Mountain in the UK and
Douglas Developments Corporation in the USA. 
As customers seek to simplify their FM structure, we remain
positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that will arise.
We intend to improve our position further through the
acquisition of businesses that complement our existing activities
and move us forward in this exciting and growing market.
Colin Tennent
Chief Executive Officer
18 November 2005
We have developed a number of key innovations, fully
integrated with our main system, in order to address the
concerns of clients wishing to outsource their facilities
management:
  Electronic web-based statutory certification
  Web-based extranet reporting services
  Wireless hand-held job delivery and closure system
  Hand-held device-based electronic asset tagging
  Wireless reporting system
  SMS text-based interaction with Maximo
  Automated labour loading and scheduling
  On-line asset history
  Integrated environmental monitoring
Our centralised business operations network coupled with
the use of wireless hand-held devices has accelerated
contract mobilisation timescales by 30% and also significantly
improved both job response and job closure times.
The need for research and development and continual
innovation within the product range is critical. Not only does
it improve our own operational efficiencies but enables us to
improve customer service levels further and saves our
customers both time and money.
Innovation and Technology Long-term Partnerships
12 GSH Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
At GSH we realise that a co-operative and collaborative rather
than adversarial approach is vital to successfully managing long-
term client relationships. On such contracts we have increasingly
worked with Ashridge Business School. Ashridge has an
outstanding international reputation. In the Financial Times
Education Supplement rankings published in May 2004, Ashridge
was ranked among the top two executive education business
schools in the UK and among the top five in Europe.
On our behalf, Ashridge has developed an exclusive
programme designed to develop further the cohesiveness in
which we work together as a team with our clients to our
mutual benefit. The programme is intended to:
  promote even greater levels of team cohesiveness
and resilience
  identify and use more of the team’s complementary
strengths in order to enhance the team’s effectiveness
in relationships, problem solving and business outputs
  generate a climate in which individual differences are 
not just tolerated, but valued as assets
  develop the team’s ability to identify and 
manage any gaps in the team’s unique mix 
of personal styles.
12
years
PRUDENTIAL
43
years
TESCO
22
years
THORNTONS
6
years
M&S
5
years
T MOBILE
8
years
L S TRILLIUM
2
years
HP
9
years
AT&T
3
years
DIAGEO
6
years
HBOS
