 08 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report Strategic Report 
CEO’S REVIEW
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2014.  
GMS carried out the business strategy we set out at IPO, 
maintaining high utilisation levels of 97% for the SESV  
fleet and achieving charter rates in line with expectations. 
The new build programme, which will expand the fleet by 
two-thirds during the period 2014 to 2016, progressed  
as scheduled with a Large Class vessel delivered to its  
first contract in Q4 2014, and two further new vessels 
contracted well ahead of their Q2 2015 scheduled build 
completion. As our fleet continues to grow we believe 
2015 will be a year of progress.
201 4: WELL -
POSITIONED 
FOR GROWTH
GMS delivered a solid performance in the year, 
successfully implementing the business 
strategy we set out at IPO as we expanded both 
our fleet and operations. 
Group Financial Performance
Revenue improved by 7% compared to 2013  
to US$ 196.6 million and adjusted net profit 
increased by 13% to US$ 81.3 million (net profit 
was US$ 75.6 million). EBITDA (adjusted for IPO 
costs) has remained stable year on year at a 
robust US$ 124.8 million, with a healthy EBITDA 
margin of 64%. The Group’s IPO raised primary 
gross proceeds of approximately US$ 111.0 
million. For 2014, we declared a maiden interim 
dividend of 0.41 pence per share, which was  
paid on 27 October. The final dividend for the 
year will be 1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per share 
subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
6 May 2015 and this will be paid on 12 May 2015.
High Fleet Utilisation
GMS has continued to focus on providing 
cost-effective offshore support solutions  
to its clients and this, combined with the 
Group’s extensive operational expertise,  
is reflected in a high SESV utilisation rate  
of 97%.
 
Strong Order Book
Demand for our assets continues to be excellent 
in the MENA region and solid in Europe. The Group 
has entered 2015 with a very healthy secured 
backlog, comprising firm and extension 
options, of US$ 707 million as at 1 March 2015.  
GMS had an encouraging total of six new 
contract wins since the beginning of 2014  
to date. Two of these were for SESVs in our 
existing fleet, with a four-year charter for  
a Large Class vessel in the North Sea, and  
a 12-month charter for a Small Class vessel  
in MENA. A newly-built Large Class SESV  
was initially contracted for four months and 
directly followed by a long-term contract  
of four years in MENA. The remaining two new 
long-term contracts, each being five-year  09 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
charters, were secured for our new build SESVs 
well ahead of the vessels’ scheduled delivery 
dates, for operations in the MENA region. 
Operations 
The Group’s current SESV fleet is one of the 
youngest in the industry, with an average age  
of eight years. This is based on 11 years for  
the Small Class SESV fleet and two years for  
the Large Class SESV fleet. At the time of our 
IPO we set out our new build programme for 
the years 2014 to 2016. On its completion, 
which will see an increase in our SESV fleet to  
15 vessels, the average age of the SESV fleet 
will reduce still further. The GMS fleet offers 
clients not only the cost-efficient deployment 
of our vessels, but also the prospect of 
substantial operational efficiencies in their  
own maintenance activities that would not  
be available from less modern vessels.
Utilisation of the SESV fleet for the year was 
97%, with day rates in line with those previously 
indicated at IPO. The Group has built its 
reputation on the reliability of its fleet. Across 
our entire fleet, we only had 12 days of unpaid 
technical downtime (for repairs/maintenance) 
in 2014 and we would seek to maintain this level 
of performance in 2015.
Health, safety and environment (HSE) is a top 
priority for GMS, with the lives of our personnel, 
our contractors and others who are impacted 
by our activities dependent upon us upholding 
our high standards. The Group’s strong HSE 
track record has been maintained throughout  
a period of considerable expansion, with zero 
lost time injuries both onshore and offshore 
throughout our global business and operations. 
I would like to commend all our personnel for 
their diligence and vigilance. 
The recruitment and training of highly 
specialised crew to operate our vessels  
is always important. 
With a relatively small pool of SESV-qualified 
senior officers worldwide, it is essential to 
ensure we have enough appropriately-skilled 
crew to meet not only the needs of our current 
fleet, but also that of our expanding fleet. 
During the year we substantially enhanced the 
training opportunities for our crew, forming  
a partnership with Abu Dhabi Ports Company  
to develop the world’s first self-propelled  
SESV manoeuvring and jacking simulator 
course. This excellent facility allows us to  
repeat difficult and complex operations  
until the trainee is well-practised in any given 
scenario. A number of new training initiatives 
were introduced during the year for both land 
and sea-going personnel. The Group also 
continues to build a good pipeline of ‘home-
grown’ qualified staff to ensure the continuity  
of efficient operations as we grow the business. 
markets 
middle east
2014 has been characterised by excellent 
demand and high levels of utilisation across  
the SESV fleet. We completed two charters  
on Small Class vessels in 2014 which were 
immediately re-chartered on new contracts. 
Two further Small Class units that had 
outstanding options with existing long-term 
contracts had these options exercised by their 
respective clients during the year. Our entire 
Small Class fleet and one Large Class vessel  
are operational in the Middle East. They will be 
joined by the Group’s first new build Mid-Size 
Class SESV and a new enhanced Small Class 
vessel, which will commence contracts during 
the first half of 2015. 
GMS has long-term confidence in the Saudi 
Arabian market and, as announced previously, 
subject to the normal regulatory approvals  
by the relevant government authorities,  
plans to increase its ownership in its KSA joint 
venture to 75% by purchasing a 15% interest 
from its existing partner, which will at the  
same time sell its remaining 25% stake  
to a well-regarded KSA conglomerate. 10 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
europe
Two Large Class SESV units have been operating 
in the Southern North Sea throughout 2014. 
One is chartered under a long-term oil and gas 
contract, and the second vessel that undertook 
a mixture of shorter-term contracts in both the 
oil and gas and renewables sectors during the 
year, will be directly chartered in Q2 2015 under  
a long-term contract for up to four years' work  
in the Dutch sector of the Southern North Sea.  
A number of other opportunities remain within 
the oil and gas sector in this region despite the 
current low oil price. While the renewables sector 
continues to provide short-term opportunities, 
demand in the wind farm segment is unpredictable. 
The flexibility of our SESVs will allow us to 
maximise opportunities should this sector  
pick up, subject to vessel availability. 
CEO’S REVIEW
Continued
Rest of World
During the year, the Group entered into 
cooperation agreements with local partners  
in Malaysia and Brunei, and these are providing 
greater levels of access and support within 
these new markets. While we believe the NOC 
client base in the South East Asian region is 
receptive to the SESV concept, development  
of this market has been restricted by a lack of 
available vessels within our current fleet. Going 
forward, we expect demand in South East Asia 
to be more sensitive to lower oil prices due  
to the higher production costs in that region 
compared to the Gulf. It is difficult to gauge 
what the impact is likely to be on demand over 
the next three to five years, but we believe that 
there will continue to be opportunities for GMS. 
 
The level of tendering activity for new business 
in West Africa during 2014 has been significantly 
lower than in previous years, in part due to the 
uncertainty associated with elections in some 
countries, but we are continuing to track 
opportunities in this market. 
enhancing our Offering
During the year, we continued to build up our 
in-house expertise in well services in order to 
engage more effectively with our clients and 
their sub-contractors, with a view to providing 
SESVs with increased capabilities specifically 
suited to their needs. As a result, we are seeing 
significant new opportunities developing across 
all of our current markets for enhanced well 
intervention services that can be performed 
from our vessels where clients may previously 
have used more expensive drilling rigs. Our 
ability to provide innovative and cost-effective 
new options to clients will continue to drive 
demand for our services and contribute towards 
maintaining high levels of utilisation in future.
n ew Build Programme
The Group’s new build programme, which will 
expand the fleet of SESVs from nine to 15 vessels 
during the period 2014 to 2016, progressed as 
planned throughout the year. GMS continues  
to benefit from the competitive advantage our 
well-established in-house quayside construction 
facility in Abu Dhabi provides, which allows us to 
build our vessels approximately 30% cheaper 
than our peers who rely on third party shipyards. 
This also allows us to control the quality of the 
entire construction process and manage the 
timely delivery of the completed vessel.
The first of the six new SESVs, GMS Enterprise, 
was completed ahead of schedule and under 
budget. The hull of the next new build, the 
Mid-Size Class vessel GMS Shamal, arrived  
at the yard in Q4 2014 and is scheduled for 
completion in Q2 2015. An Enhanced Small 
Class vessel, Pepper, will be completed in Q1 
2015, and a second Mid-Size Class vessel, GMS 
Scirocco, will be completed in Q3 2015. A third 
Mid-Size Class vessel, GMS Sharqi, is scheduled 
for Q1 2016 and a further Large Class vessel, 
GMS Evolution, is planned for Q4 2016. Various 
enhancements are being incorporated into  
the design of GMS Evolution in order to expand 
the well service offering on board to clients. 
These include higher deck loads and increased 
free deck space, and a cantilever crane that will  
not only further enhance the efficiency and 
cost-effectiveness of existing interventions, 
but will also extend the range of possible  
well interventions to include ESP (electric 
submersible pump) systems replacement  
or Plug and Abandonment for example.
The estimated cost to complete the remainder 
of the new build programme for the period 2015 
to 2016 is approximately US$ 175 million.
Our People 
Our people are at the very core of our business 
and are the strength behind the Group.  
GMS employs personnel from more than 50 
countries and this rich diversity ensures we look 
at ourselves, and the way we work, from many 
different viewpoints. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our staff for their great 
dedication and support as we prepared for  
our IPO and throughout our first year as a  
listed company. 
I would also like to extend my gratitude to the 
management team for its hard work in ensuring 
the Group has the correct strategy in place for 
our future growth, and to my colleagues on  
the Board of Directors, who provide us with  
the benefit of their extensive knowledge  
and experience.  11 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S
THE 2014 TO 2016 FLEET EXPANSION PROGRAMME  
IS FULL Y -FINANCED AND WILL HELP DRIVE GROWTH  
IN 2015 AND 2016.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Outlook
The Group is continuing to increase its SESV 
fleet throughout 2015 with the delivery of three 
new vessels; a further two vessels are scheduled 
for 2016. This 2014 to 2016 fleet expansion 
programme is fully-financed and will help drive 
earnings growth in 2015 and 2016. It is our 
intention to continue to expand the fleet 
beyond this at an appropriate rate to capitalise 
on the continuing strong demand we see for our 
vessels. Future growth will be paced responsibly, 
based on the Group’s view of market demand 
and investment returns. Whilst we will always 
have regard to our earnings progress and the 
capital required for investment in our new build 
programme, we expect the increasing strength 
in our cash flows to be reflected in a step up in 
our dividend payments ratio.
The recent rapid decline in the oil price is  
clearly already having significant effects  
across the oil and gas sector. Whilst we cannot 
say with certainty how GMS will be affected by 
this, any effects to date have been limited and 
we believe that we are well-placed to continue 
to grow our business. The Group has a strong 
backlog (over $700m) of firm and option-based 
contracts, and all of the activity in the backlog is 
in Opex rather than Capex-based work meaning 
that none of our contracts are vulnerable  
to the major cutbacks to capital expenditure 
that are already taking place. In addition,  
over 70% of the Group’s backlog will be derived 
from our work mainly for NOCs in the low cost 
production areas in the Middle East. The low  
oil price could well also lead to the acceleration 
of abandonment and decommissioning work  
by our clients which would provide further 
business opportunities for GMS.
We will monitor carefully any emerging effects  
of the low oil price environment and, if necessary, 
adjust our strategy accordingly. However,  
the outlook, based on our current pipeline of 
contracts under negotiation and other tender 
opportunities, is for continued strong demand 
driven primarily by our core Opex-related 
brownfield oil and gas client base, and in 
particular in the Middle East.
We are well-positioned for continued growth 
and I look forward to 2015 and beyond  
with confidence. 
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer 
23 March 2015
