 02 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Introduction
Gulf Marine Services was founded in Abu Dhabi in 1977  
and is the operator of one of the world’s largest fleets of 
advanced self-propelled Self-Elevating Support Vessels 
(SESVs). The Group listed on the London Stock Exchange 
in March 2014.
A WORLD 
LEADER IN 
SESVs
GMS A T A GLANCE
GMS’ assets provide the stable platform for the 
delivery of a wide range of services performed  
by the Group’s clients throughout the total 
lifecycle of offshore oil, gas and renewable 
energy activities. The vessels are capable of 
operations in the Middle East, South East Asia, 
West Africa and Europe. 
The Group constructs and maintains its vessels  
at its yard in Abu Dhabi; its extensive new build 
programme makes the GMS fleet the most 
sophisticated in the industry. The current  
fleet of SESVs comprises 11 vessels; GMS  
will increase this to 15 vessels by 2016.
The Group’s SESV fleet is technically 
advanced and amongst the youngest in the 
industry, with an average age of eight years. 
The SESVs are four-legged vessels that 
move independently, with no requirement 
for anchor handling or tug support. They 
have a large deck space, crane capacity  
and accommodation facilities that can  
be adapted to the requirements of the 
Group’s clients. These vessels support  
GMS’ clients in a broad range of offshore  
oil and gas platform refurbishment and 
maintenance activities, well intervention 
work and offshore wind turbine maintenance 
work (which are Opex-led activities) and 
offshore oil and gas platform installation  
and offshore wind turbine installation  
(which are Capex-led activities). 
Further details on our Business Model and vessel 
flexibility can be found on pages 12 to 13.
OUR OFFERING
Gm S Supports:
 – Well intervention services and 
enhanced oil recovery
 – Drilling support, completions  
and testing
 – Platform construction, hookup  
and commissioning
 – Platform restoration and 
maintenance
 – Coil tubing, wireline, snubbing
 – Well abandonment and 
decommissioning
 – Wind turbine installation  
and maintenance MENA
NORTH WEST EUROPE
03 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Three classes of vessels serve a range of client needs
• 8 units
• Average age: 11 yrs  
(7 yrs excl Naashi)
• Water depth: 45m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• 3 units under construction
• Average age: N/A
• Water depth: 55m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
• 3 units + 1 to be constructed
• Average age: 2 yrs
• Water depth: 65–80m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Small Class Mid-Size Class Large Class
OUR OFFERING
Market dominance in the MENA region.
Continued successful operations  
in North West Europe.
WHERE WE CURRENTL Y OPERA TE HISTORY
GMS was established in Abu Dhabi, UAE in 1977. 
In 2007 the Group was acquired by a consortium 
of investors, led by private equity firm Gulf 
Capital, and a new senior management team was 
appointed, headed by the current CEO Duncan 
Anderson. At this time, the Group was operating 
three self-propelled SESVs (with a fourth 
undergoing refurbishment) and had another 
under construction. Within just seven years, 
GMS has successfully expanded its fleet and 
geographical coverage, from a local operation  
in Abu Dhabi to become the number one player 
in the Middle East, and now one of the largest 
operators of self-propelled SESVs in the world. 
The Group’s current SESV fleet stands at  
11 vessels (as at March 2015); it also has an 
accommodation barge and two anchor- 
handling tug support (AHTS) vessels.
Gm S Fleet of SeSVs
Small c lass Vessels Year of Build
Naashi 1982
Kamikaze 1999
Kikuyu 2005
Kawawa 2006
Kudeta 2008
Keloa 2009
Kinoa 2012
Pepper 2015
l arge c lass Vessels Year of Build
GMS Endurance 2010
GMS Endeavour 2011
GMS Enterprise 2014
The Group’s first Large Class vessel, which 
opened up a market sector where vessels can 
operate in harsh weather and deeper water 
environments, was constructed in 2010,  
with a second delivered in 2011. In 2010 when 
GMS Endurance was completed it was initially 
deployed in Saudi Arabia, whilst the second,  
GMS Endeavour, was mobilised to the North  
Sea; both markets were a first for GMS and 
allowed the Group to continue its growth 
strategy and to expand its geographic and  
client footprint beyond the UAE where it had 
predominantly been working up to that time. 
GMS operated entirely in the oil and gas  
sector until 2011 when it entered the offshore 
wind power installation market in North West 
Europe with one of its Large Class vessels,  
GMS Endeavour. 
 In 2014 GMS embarked on a three-year new 
build programme to expand its fleet by a further 
six SESVs. The first of these, GMS Enterprise, 
was completed in 2014 and in the same year 
construction commenced on the first of  
three newly-designed Mid-Size Class vessels, 
with these due for delivery in 2015 and 2016.
