 04 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Introduction Introduction
During the year, we secured five new contract 
awards, totaling an aggregate contracted period 
of approximately 15.5 years (including options), 
which equates to around US$ 272.6 million of 
additional backlog. Our order book continues to 
be very healthy, and as the year drew to a close 
we negotiated a new four-year contract, signed 
in January, for one of our Large Class vessels  
in the MENA region, culminating in a secured 
backlog of over US$ 700 million as at 1 March 
2015. We delivered a strong set of results for 
2014. Total revenue and adjusted EBITDA for 
the year were US$ 196.6 million and US$ 124.8 
million respectively, with adjusted diluted 
earnings per share of 23.71 cents.
Central to our growth has been both the 
continued high utilisation of our existing fleet 
and the commencement of the delivery of 
additional SESVs under our fleet expansion 
programme. The Group’s continued positive 
development is testament to its long track 
record of successful operations, its excellent 
reputation and robust financial performance 
under the leadership of its CEO Duncan 
Anderson and his executive team. 
As GMS prepared for the IPO it appointed a new 
Board, which I am delighted to lead as Chairman. 
The Board is highly experienced and provides 
sound stewardship; it has also ensured that the 
appropriate Corporate Governance standards 
are in place. 
It gives me great pleasure to introduce Gulf Marine 
Services’ inaugural Annual Report. The Group’s  
IPO in March and admission onto the main market  
of the London Stock Exchange, which raised primary 
gross proceeds of approximately US$ 111 million, was 
a major highlight of 2014. GMS has since gone from 
strength to strength. We are implementing our 
business strategy to expand our fleet and operations 
as planned, we have maintained a strong balance 
sheet and achieved good revenue visibility. 
201 4: A YEAR 
OF DELIVERY
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT 05 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The Group’s dividend policy looks to maximise 
shareholder value and reflect GMS’ strong 
earnings and cash flow characteristics, whilst 
allowing the retention of sufficient capital to 
invest in long-term growth for the Group.  
For 2014, we were pleased to declare a maiden 
interim dividend of 0.41 pence per share, which 
was paid in October. The final dividend for the 
year will be 1.06 pence per share subject to 
shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 6 May 
2015 and this will be paid on 12 May 2015. 
GMS has maintained its excellent health and 
safety record and we remain committed to 
upholding the highest standards across all areas 
of our business. Focus on our employees has 
been important, as it is every year. We have 
supplemented our workforce at all levels and 
across all departments to support our expansion 
requirements. I would like to thank all employees, 
both onshore and offshore, for their energy and 
dedication to GMS during a very busy first year  
as a listed company. 
We are, of course, keeping a watchful eye on 
current challenging macroeconomic conditions. 
While we are not immune to low oil prices, we are 
more cushioned from the effects than others in 
the energy sector due to the Opex nature of our 
business and to the fact that the majority of our 
fleet is working in the MENA region, which gives 
us a greater resilience to ride out the current 
industry fluctuations. 
Looking to the future, the Group has a strong 
financial base from which to deliver the organic 
growth strategy we set out at IPO and this will 
be driven through the support services we 
provide to our core clients’ Opex-related oil  
and gas operations. 
We will continue to capitalise on strong demand 
for our assets in the MENA region, and will seek 
to increase our operations in Europe. Expansion 
into new geographies will be a longer-term goal 
aligned to the availability of our new tonnage. 
With a clear strategy and a proven management 
team, we are well-positioned to deliver 
shareholder value. The Board views the coming 
years with confidence and enthusiasm and  
I look forward to reporting on our progress.
Simon Heale
Chairman
23 March 2015 06 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
STRA TEGIC 
REPORT
CEO’s Review 08
Business Model 12
Our Strategy 14
Key Performance Indicators 18
Risk Management 20 07 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
