 06
Job: 13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: gem Date: 12 April 2010 8:20 PM 
Server: studio 2 Set-up: Steve First Read/Revisions
Chairman’s statement
A year of solid progress
We ended the year with unrestricted cash balances  
of $57.6 million and no debt.
Andrew West Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
It gives me much pleasure to report on 
another year of solid progress towards 
our goal of becoming a leading 
independent exploration and production 
company in the Middle East and North 
Africa (“MENA”) region. A number of key 
achievements are worthy of mention.
Proven and Probable working interest 
reserves increased by 25% to more than 50 
mmboe, all of which increase related to our 
assets in Syria.
We ended the year with unrestricted cash 
balances of $57.6 million and no debt. This 
strong financial position has been crucial to 
our ability to continue to function unimpeded 
by the very difficult financial circumstances of 
the past 18 months and leaves the Group 
well placed to fund our plans for development 
and exploration in Syria from our own 
resources. 
The “investment profile” of the Group 
improved significantly during the course of 
the year. We are now covered actively by 
research analysts at eight independent 
brokerage firms. Liquidity in our shares has 
improved considerably, with an approximate 
average daily volume of 420,000 shares 
during the first two months of 2010. More 
than 200 institutional investors are now 
represented on our share register, while our 
previous Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer have ceased to be substantial 
shareholders following sales of their shares.
We made a number of key management 
appointments during the year, the foremost 
being that of Khalid Almogharbel, a Syrian 
citizen with many years experience working 
for Schlumberger in the Middle East, as our 
Operations Manager for Syria and as General 
Manager of our joint venture with the Syrian 
Petroleum Company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the Syrian Government, the Syrian Petroleum 
Company and Syria’s General Petroleum 
Corporation for the exemplary level of 
support and cooperation we continue to 
receive from them. As but one example, the 
increase in the capacity of the early 
production facility in Khurbet East to 18,000 
bopd was achieved at minimal cost and 
within a timeframe of months that would not 
have been possible without such assistance. 
Your Board regards the strong relationship 
we enjoy with our Syrian partners as one of 
the Group’s most important intangible assets.
I would also like to welcome Sinochem, our 
new Chinese partners in Block 26 and we 
look forward to a long and fruitful 
collaboration.
Against this backdrop we approach the 
coming year with confidence. Our overriding 
priority is to complete the full field 
development of the Khurbet East field but we 
are also proceeding “full ahead” in our pursuit 
of the remaining exploration potential of Block 
26.
As this Report goes to press, there are 
modestly encouraging signs of a pending 
improvement in relations between Syria and 
the United States. Any progress in this 
direction can only be to the Company’s 
advantage.
Our efforts to secure additional exploration 
opportunities in a new country in the MENA 
region have recently borne fruit in the form  
of the farm-in to two exploration licences  
in Tunisia, where we believe there is 
significant potential.
Finally, we continue to believe that our 
longstanding efforts in Iraq will begin to show 
tangible results as the obstacles to 
development of that country’s massive oil 
and gas resources have at last begun to be 
removed. We are cautiously optimistic of 
being able to report positive progress in this 
regard during the year.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew West
Chairman
29 March 2010
Analyst Coverage of Gulfsands*
Ambrian
Canaccord
Collins Stewart
Fox Davies
Matrix
Oriel
Royal Bank of Canada
Royal Bank of Scotland
* independent published research only
13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW.indd   6 13/4/10   19:10:19 Gulfsands Petroleum Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
1
2
3
4
Overview
Business Review
Job: 13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: gem Date: 12 April 2010 8:20 PM 
Server: studio 2 Set-up: Steve First Read/Revisions
13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW.indd   7 13/4/10   19:10:22
