 08
Job: 13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: gem Date: 12 April 2010 8:20 PM 
Server: studio 2 Set-up: Steve First Read/Revisions
Chief Executive’s statement
Potential for growth
2009 was a very successful year  
for the Group as a whole.
Richard Malcolm Chief Executive
In Syria, the focus was primarily on 
increasing oil production and reserves 
through the drilling of the Khurbet East oil 
field. This resulted in a 70% increase in 
production over the year to approximately 
17,000 bopd (gross) by year-end, exceeding 
our year-end target of 16,000 bopd (gross). 
2P oil reserves at Khurbet East have 
increased by 28% to 38 mmbbls and 
Yousefieh 2P oil reserves have increased 
42% to 8 mmbbls. After production of 2.3 
mmbbls in 2009, we now have 46 mmbbls of 
2P oil reserves in Syria compared with 35 
mmbbls a year ago (all reserves numbers on 
a working interest basis).
This production performance from Syria has 
delivered the Group its first profit after tax of 
$27.8 million and has placed us in a strong 
financial position with net cash of $57.6 
million at year-end. Assuming no unexpected 
surprises, we anticipate being able to meet all 
capital expenditure requirements in Syria and 
the USA throughout the forthcoming year 
from operating cash flow.
Syria
At Khurbet East, seven wells were drilled, 
three of which were delineation wells and four 
were producers. The upgrading of processing 
facilities at the early production facility (“EPF”) 
from 10,000 to 18,000 barrels of oil per day 
(“bopd”) capacity was completed safely in 
July, and tenders were issued in October for a 
new central production facility (“CPF”) with a 
capacity of 50,000 barrels of fluid per day 
(“bfpd”), the contract for which is expected to 
be awarded imminently. In addition, two 
appraisal wells on the Yousefieh oil field were 
successfully completed. Both wells flowed oil 
to surface on test, and approval by the Syrian 
Government to develop the field was received 
in January 2010.
A large three dimensional (“3D”) seismic 
survey of approximately 850 km² of good 
quality data was acquired in the first six 
months of the year on time, safely and within 
budget. In combination with seismic data 
acquired from a previous adjacent 3D survey, 
a total of approximately 1,100 km² of data has 
now been processed and a preliminary 
interpretation completed. Four exploration 
prospects and two leads have been identified. 
The exploration well on the first prospect 
(Zaman-1), completed in February 2010, 
discovered only a small non-commercial oil 
pool. Drilling of the second exploration well, 
Hanoon-1, is nearly complete and the results 
are anticipated in April.
A second smaller 3D seismic survey was 
acquired on a sole risk basis in November 
over the Taramish anticlinal structure located 
in the north east corner of Block 26. The 
processed data was delivered in March 2010 
and interpretation is under way.
In order to accommodate our expanding 
workforce in Syria, now numbering over  
70 people (including contract staff), we have 
moved to new offices located just outside  
the city of Damascus and strengthened our 
management team with appointment of 
Khalid Almogharbel as Operations Manager. 
A new HSE policy and management system 
was adopted by the Group during the year 
2010 Objectives 
Syria
n Bring Yousefieh into commercial 
production
n Install 22 km pipeline to SPC delivery 
point to replace trucking operation
n Construct 2,000 m³ fixed roof oil 
storage tank at the EPF
n Manage initial phases of Central 
Production Facility EPC contract
n Drill four exploration wells and five 
production wells on Block 26
n Achieve average production of  
18,000 bopd gross (9,000 bopd WI) 
n Secure an additional exploration or 
development licence in Syria
13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW.indd   8 13/4/10   19:10:24 Gulfsands Petroleum Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
1
2
3
4
Overview
Business Review
Job: 13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: gem Date: 12 April 2010 8:20 PM 
Server: studio 2 Set-up: Steve First Read/Revisions
and a HSE Manager appointed to the 
Damascus office. I am pleased to report that 
Gulfsands’ excellent safety record has been 
maintained in 2009 with no lost-time injuries 
being reported during the year, nor indeed 
since operations began in 2006. 
USA
Results for the year in the USA were very 
disappointing from a number of perspectives. 
The delay in repair of third party infrastructure 
has been significantly more protracted than 
anticipated following damage incurred by 
Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008. At  
the time of writing our working interest 
production is approximately 1,700 boepd, 
significantly below budget due to a number  
of facilities still not being fully operational. In 
addition, gas sales prices fell from an average 
of $9.4/mcf in 2008 to an average of $3.9/mcf 
in 2009. As a result of these and other 
difficulties, the US business made a loss for the 
year of $14.2 million before intra-group interest 
(2008 as restated: $0.3 million). However, we 
anticipate the US will make a positive 
contribution during 2010 assuming a 
reasonably trouble free hurricane season and 
oil and gas prices remaining at or above current 
levels. This will include some investment 
expenditure with possibly two exploration  
wells in addition to a number of work-overs.
The USA assets are now non-core to the 
Group and we intend to commence the 
process of divestment during 2010.
New business initiatives
The focus for the Group continues to be the 
active exploitation of potential in Block 26 in 
Syria. However, we are also looking to 
expand our footprint in Syria and are 
proactively seeking new opportunities. 
In Iraq, participation in the Maysan Gas 
Project remains an objective for the Group. 
During the year, a thorough technical and 
commercial audit and review of the project  
by third parties, was undertaken that has 
reinforced our desire to pursue the project 
and finalise negotiations as soon as possible. 
We are also looking for opportunities in Iraq 
that would allow direct participation in 
enhanced oil recovery projects that, if 
appropriately structured, have the potential to 
deliver a relatively attractive rate of return.
We have expanded our search for new 
business opportunities to the Middle East 
and North Africa region generally and 
recently announced a farm-in to two 
exploration permits in Tunisia, one onshore 
and one offshore, held by AUDAX Resources. 
This will involve us in the acquisition of 3D 
seismic and the drilling of two exploration 
wells during the course of 2010.
Objectives for 2010
We believe that a significant quantity of oil 
remains undiscovered in Block 26 and 
requires an active exploration programme to 
capture this potential, prior to the end of the 
exploration period in August 2012. We plan  
to drill four exploration wells in 2010 on newly 
defined prospects and to acquire another 
large 3D seismic survey in order to delineate 
future exploration targets. 
Production for 2010 is anticipated to average 
approximately 18,000 bopd delivered to the 
export pipeline via a newly built 22 km pipeline 
and storage facility at the EPF. We aim to bring 
Yousefieh into production by mid-year.
Development drilling will continue at the 
Khurbet East field with four development 
wells and at the Yousefieh Field with one well, 
in preparation to ramp up oil production 
through the CPF once this has been brought 
into operation. 
Outlook 
2010 and 2011 will continue to be capital 
intensive years in Block 26 as we continue 
to explore aggressively and construct and 
commission the CPF, but all costs are 
anticipated to be met from cash flow. At the 
date of this statement, we are in a strong 
financial position with a cash balance of over 
$70 million, no debt and a forecast surplus 
cash flow for 2010. Thereafter, surplus cash 
flows generated in Syria will be reinvested in 
new projects, both within Syria and 
elsewhere in the Middle East. 
We believe that a solid foundation for the 
Group has now been achieved in Syria that 
enables Gulfsands to look to the future with 
great excitement and optimism and to 
continue to build an ever stronger E&P 
company by focusing on our strengths and 
capitalising on the opportunities that lie 
before us. 
Richard Malcolm
Chief Executive Officer
29 March 2010
USA
n Restore production to pre-hurricane 
levels by year-end
n Identify additional potential reserves  
via drilling and work-overs
n Commence the process of divestment
Tunisia
n Complete farm-in to Chorbane and 
Kerkouane permits
n Acquire 3D seismic and drill two 
exploration wells
Business development
n Progress Maysan project or another  
oil and gas exploitation project in Iraq
n Actively review opportunities to farm- 
in to or acquire E&P assets elsewhere 
in the MENA region
We believe that a significant 
quantity of oil remains 
undiscovered in Block 26 and 
requires an active exploration 
programme to capture this 
potential, prior to the end of the 
exploration period in August 2012.
13447_GulfSands_R&A_FRT_AW.indd   9 13/4/10   19:10:24
