 4 | Page 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
Dear Shareholder, 
 
The past twelve months have been, without question, the most difficult period in the Company’s history and among the most 
trying episodes I can recall in any business venture in which I have been involved.   
 
The Company received no revenue whatsoever from our Syrian assets during 2012 and it is impossible to make any sensible 
prognostication as to when we may once again begin to do so.   
 
The terrible tragedy that continues to unfold in Syria remains the subject of intensive media coverage and there is nothing that I 
can usefully add to that commentary.   
 
I am relieved to report that, to the best of our knowledge, all of our Syrian personnel remain safe, albeit suffering severe disloca-
tion to their personal lives. Nor have our assets in Block 26, at the date hereof, suffered any significant damage or depredations.   
 
In line with our previously stated intent, we continue to employ a significant number of our Syrian personnel and are beginning 
wherever possible to redeploy suitably qualified staff to work on our newly acquired assets in Morocco.   
 
We continue to take all available steps, in strict compliance with EU sanctions, to try to protect the value of our Syrian assets and 
to ensure that, as and when conditions permit, we are able to recommence operations in Block 26. We also continue selectively, 
despite the difficulty of the circumstances, to implement our established programme of Corporate Social Responsibility.  
 
Difficult as the circumstances have been, your Board and management have made substantial progress during the year in apply-
ing the Company’s technical and financial strengths to new business opportunities.  
 
We have entered Morocco, where we have acquired operatorship of a large and highly prospective area of approximately 13,000 
square kilometres, encompassing both a near term opportunity to generate meaningful cash flow through the exploitation of the 
biogenic gas reservoirs in the Rharb Permit areas and longer term, higher risk/reward exploration opportunities in the Fes and 
Taounate Permit areas. 
 
We have increased our participation in the Chorbane Permit, onshore Tunisia, and have become operator of that acreage, there-
by taking control of the direction and timing of the work programme. 
 
Finally, we have diversified beyond the MENA region by securing the award of two licences in Colombia that will, we anticipate, 
provide the Company with leveraged exposure to the exploration potential of two prolific oil producing basins. 
 
These developments are discussed in greater detail in the Chief Executive’s Report and the Operations Review. 
 
Following these initiatives, the Company remains well funded, with free cash balances (after paying for the Moroccan acquisition) 
of approximately $68 million and no debt as of the date of writing this report. As you will imagine, the husbanding and optimum 
deployment of this cash is your Board’s single highest priority, pending the Company’s return to positive cash flow. All reasona-
ble efforts are being made and will continue to be made to contain expenditure.  
 
I am not going to offer hostages to fortune by making any prognostication, at this juncture, as to the timing of a return to produc-
tion in Block 26. All that I can usefully say in that regard is to echo the heartfelt wish of all reasonable people that the violence 
cease and some semblance of normality be restored to the lives of the people of Syria, who have suffered and continue to suffer 
so terribly. 
 
As to the Company’s new initiatives, I am unashamedly enthusiastic. We now have before us some fine opportunities. I believe 
we know how to make the best of them. As a Board and senior management we have done it before, building the Syrian opera-
tion from scratch in little more than three years, and I see no reason why we should not repeat the trick given hard work, sensible 
commercial judgement and some reasonable luck, which latter is always an essential ingredient of success in the exploration 
business. The coming twelve months will be of crucial importance in proving my confidence well-founded. I can but hope that I 
will be writing to you with better news this time next year. 
 
It remains only for me to extend my personal gratitude and that of the Board to our long term shareholders, our loyal employees 
and our Block 26 joint venture partner, Sinochem, all of whom who have remained absolutely staunch in their support throughout 
these trying times. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew West 
Chairman 
8 April 2013 
  
