 6 | Page 
 
Chief Executive’s Report 
 
 
Gulfsands move into Morocco and Colombia is an exciting development for the Group as we re-establish ourselves as an 
active operator. 
 
Introduction 
Gulfsands has continued to focus its strategy on exploration and production efforts onshore in the Middle East-North African (“MENA”) 
region where our strengths and expertise lie.   During 2012 we evaluated a very large number of opportunities for investment, both 
within the MENA region and in certain other target countries that we considered complimentary to our skill set and that had the 
potential to generate real growth and significant shareholder value.  We set ourselves the target of consolidating our position in Tunisia 
and building a new non-Syrian leg to the business.  With the acquisition of Cabre Maroc in Morocco, the successful award of two 
permits in Colombia and operatorship onshore Tunisia, these objectives have now been achieved.   
 
The situation in Syria has unfortunately not improved during 2012 with the Company being precluded from operating in country by 
virtue of the military activity and European Union sanctions.  The safety of our Syrian staff is and has been a top priority and we 
continue to do whatever we can to provide security during this difficult period. 
 
In seeking new business opportunities, our strategy has been based around a two-pronged approach of pursuing significant interests 
in high materiality exploration projects together with opportunities generating near term cash flow in order to sustain our ongoing 
general, administrative and some exploration costs.  This search included possible farmins, applications for new acreage and 
corporate transactions.    
 
Morocco 
In December 2012 we announced that agreement had been reached with Caithness Petroleum Limited to acquire their wholly owned 
subsidiary, Cabre Maroc Limited. This transaction completed in early January 2013 and delivers to the Group, operatorship of a large 
contiguous and highly prospective onshore acreage position of 13,352 km
2
, with two very distinct components.  Firstly, potential for 
high impact oil discoveries in a thrust and folded tectonic environment within a proven petroleum system, and secondly, an established 
business of gas exploration with near term production potential. The total consideration for this transaction was $19.0 million in cash 
plus an agreement to fund up to $11.0 million of Caithness’s remaining exploration commitments. 
 
Our first goal in Morocco will be to bring forward, as soon as possible the discovery, production and commercialisation of gas, ideally 
within the second half of the year.  The prospects are shallow biogenic gas accumulations identified on seismic data as “bright spots” 
in the Rharb Centre Permit that, although characteristically small, can be brought into production relatively inexpensively and 
commercialised relatively quickly.  We anticipate generating our first revenue stream from this country entry as early as the last quarter 
of the year.  A new 3D seismic survey is also planned to be acquired this year in order to mature additional drilling targets for 2014 and 
beyond. 
 
An active exploration programme is also planned in the Fes Permit during 2013 and 2014 where a number of potentially large 
structures have been identified, based on the application of new technology (Full Tensor Gravity), lying adjacent to existing oil fields.  
We are in advanced discussions with contractors to commence 2D seismic acquisition of approximately 600 line km of data in 2013 
and a further 400 line km in 2014. Once this data has been acquired and interpreted we anticipate that it should be possible to mature 
three or four drillable prospects, one of which is likely to be drilled in 2014 and two drilled in 2015.  In the event of success, the 
Taounate Permit provides a very significant extension of the play fairway.  
 
Colombia 
In 2012, the Group participated in the Ronda 2012 bid round in Colombia and was successful in acquiring 100% interest in two frontier 
permits located in prospective areas on trend with existing oil discoveries.  This move, beyond the core area of the MENA region, 
maintains our focus on attractive oil prospects with attractive fiscal terms, in addition to providing an element of country risk 
diversification to the exploration portfolio.   We are currently in negotiations with a number of parties to join us in a consortium to 
explore these permits.   
 
Tunisia 
In November 2012 agreements were reached with ADX Energy Limited, Xstate Resources Limited and Verus Investments Limited to 
extend the Group’s interests in the Chorbane, Kerkouane and Pantelleria permits. The total consideration for these transactions was 
approximately $1.15 million plus an agreement to fund ADX’s remaining share of a seismic survey to be carried out in the onshore 
Chorbane Permit during 2013.  
 
Subject to government approval in Tunisia, which is expected imminently, we hold a 70% operated interest in the Chorbane Permit 
and 40% interest in both the offshore Kerkouane and Pantelleria permits.   
 
Additionally, the Company will continue to evaluate value adding opportunities in Tunisia and, to this end, announced a strategic 
alliance with Rift Basin Resources to jointly pursue new projects in Tunisia and more generally across the MENA region. Under the 
terms of this alliance, Gulfsands has the opportunity to participate in any such projects at up to 70% equity and to act as operator. 
 
Syria 
The Syrian government’s General Petroleum Corporation (“GPC”) has during the year, intermittently produced minor quantities of oil 
from our fields in Block 26, but otherwise the fields have been shut in and remain in good order.  Although we have not conducted any 
operations during the year in full compliance with European Union sanctions, we have continued to maintain a presence in Syria and 
employ the majority of our Syrian staff throughout this difficult period as we believe the situation will be resolved in due course, at 
which time the Company will be able to resume operations.  We are using the skill set available amongst our workforce in Syria to 
assist in the establishment of our new business in Morocco, with the secondment of selected staff members. 
 
    7 | Page 
 
Financial Performance 
The Group has endured a difficult period since the implementation of sanctions against the oil industry in Syria and this year recorded 
a loss of $27.0 million and a cash outflow from operations of $14.6 million. During 2012 we have focused on reducing the rate of cash 
burn and we will continue to keep a tight grip of overheads to ensure that the maximum benefit is derived from the Group’s cash 
resources through exposure to exploration. 
 
We anticipate that the Group’s performance will improve during 2013 and with the cash on hand at 31 December 2012 our future 
exploration obligations for 2013 and beyond are fully funded. We do not preclude the option of raising further capital, either through 
equity or debt, in the near future should the need and opportunity arise.   
 
Outlook 2013 and Beyond 
The entry into Morocco and Colombia and operatorship onshore Tunisia will result in a busy year ahead, with emphasis on acquiring 
seismic and gravity data in addition to the drilling of at least five exploration wells in the Rharb Centre Permit.  2014 will also be an 
active year as we aim to drill up to seven exploration wells in our Moroccan and Tunisian permits.  
 
The move into Morocco and Colombia is an exciting development for the Group as we re-establish ourselves as an active operator 
with exploration acreage we believe has the potential to mirror elements of the technical success that we achieved in Syria.  The 
Group has no debt and is well funded with cash resources of $91 million at 31 December 2012.  We are now well positioned to use our 
existing resources to deliver real growth and significant value for shareholders. 
 
 
Ric Malcolm 
Chief Executive Officer 
8 April 2013 
 
 
  
