 4 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement
Your Board remains confident in 
the opportunities before us and 
in the Company’s ability to bring 
those opportunities to fruition. 
Andrew West
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
The past year, insofar as the Company has been concerned, 
has been one of steady but considerable progress and 
consolidation rather than one of dramatic events. Notwithstanding 
the absence of early exploration success in Morocco, progress 
with re-building a viable business and a credible vehicle for long 
term value creation has been tangible and enhanced our reputation 
as efficient operators.
I would like to highlight several principal areas of achievement.
First, following the restructuring of our Tunisian interests, the 
Company now has operatorship of all its exploration licences. 
Control of our own destiny in this regard was the key to our 
success in Syria and will be equally crucial to repeating that 
success elsewhere.
Secondly, we have extensively restructured our senior management 
team and our staffing, resulting in both a more effective 
organisation to meet the challenges of capturing and developing 
new business opportunities and a significantly reduced cost base.
Thirdly, we have moved swiftly and effectively to commence 
operations in Morocco and Colombia and, in the latter case, 
to farm down our interest. The credibility and goodwill this 
has bought us with, in particular, the authorities in Morocco 
is incalculable and will be of great benefit as we move into a 
more serious exploration phase.
These themes are discussed in greater detail in the Chief 
Executive’s Review and the Operations Review.
 > Achieved operatorship of all 
our exploration licences.
 > Restructuring of senior 
management and staff now 
complete, resulting in a more 
effective organisation.
 > Operations commenced in 
Morocco and Colombia.
Progress in 2013 Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  5
Although we continue to husband our cash we have not yet 
generated cash flow from these new business initiatives. 
Your Board is acutely aware of the imperative to do so and of the 
need to ensure the continuing availability of adequate financial 
resources until the point at which the Company is once again 
self-sustaining. This is an important reason for having structured 
our affairs and interests as we have. Although the institutional 
appetite for investment in E&P companies at the corporate level 
remains tepid at best, from ongoing discussions with potential 
investors, debt providers and industry partners, it is evident that 
we have a range of options open to us to fund our operations at 
the asset or field level. You may be assured that your Board is 
evaluating and pursuing those opportunities with vigour. Further 
assessment of the Company’s going concern status is made in 
note 1.3a of the Financial Statements.
There is little of substance to be said about the situation in Syria 
beyond what you read daily in the media. A tragic situation 
shows, all too sadly, very little discernible sign of near-term 
improvement. The Company remains in strict compliance with all 
relevant sanctions while at the same time taking all possible steps 
to preserve the value of our Syrian assets, including retaining a 
modest level of staffing in country. We continue to believe that the 
Company will in due course return to active operations in Syria but 
we do not pretend to have any special insights into timing.
Your Board remains confident in the opportunities before us and 
in the Company’s ability to bring those opportunities to fruition. 
The task of rebuilding is neither an easy nor a swift one but we 
never anticipated that it would be. The important thing is to build 
the foundations thoroughly, as we are doing, and to maintain 
our focus.
As ever, I would like to express my personal gratitude and that 
of the Board to all our shareholders, employees and commercial 
partners, the staunchness of whose support is the bedrock upon 
which we build.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew West
Chairman
3 April 2014
