 These are my first annual results as Chairman, although 
I have been a director of the Company for the two 
years since it was listed on the London Stock
Exchange. I am pleased to report that Halfords has
again demonstrated its resilience, benefiting from its
unique market position as the UK’s leading auto, leisure
and cycling products retailer, operating predominantly
from out of town locations. 
Our total sales increase of 8.5% is encouraging against
the background of the broader UK retail market, which
is widely described as “challenging”. Earnings per
share were 23.6p and the Board is recommending a
final dividend of 8.75p per share in addition to the 4.0p
interim dividend already paid, bringing the total
dividend for the year to 12.75p per share, up from 
12.0p per share last year. 
The strong group of independent non-executive
directors have been together since the flotation in 2004,
working closely with our Chief Executive, Ian McLeod,
and Finance Director, Nick Carter, who successfully
lead a wider and equally talented executive
management team. Upon my appointment as
Chairman, Nigel Wilson was appointed Senior
Independent Director, alongside Keith Harris and Bill
Ronald, our existing non-executive directors. The Board
works well together as a balanced team to consider the
full range of issues that matter to our shareholders.
During the year, CVC Capital Partners significantly
reduced their shareholding in the Company, which
stood at 7.3% by the year end, and we thank Jonathan
Feuer, the CVC-nominated director who resigned from
the Board on 11 January 2006, for his contribution to
our success. Rob Templeman led the Company from
March 2003 and resigned as Chairman at the end of the
financial year on 31 March 2006. Rob made a huge and
enduring contribution to the Company and we wish him
well as he pursues his responsibilities elsewhere. 
The results for the year to 31 March 2006 are a credit to
the hard work of the entire Halfords team working in our
stores, our distribution centres and in head office. All of
our people are dedicated to bringing our customers a
great range of products and services and this gives the
Board continuing confidence in the future of the
Company.
Richard Pym, Chairman
7 June 2006
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 04 Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
Richard Pym
“Halfords has again demonstrated
its resilience, benefiting from its
unique market position as the
UK’s leading auto, leisure and
cycling product retailer.” Leisure
Chairman’s Statement 05
The Halfords cycling proposition goes
from strength to strength, with one in
three bikes in the UK now being
purchased from Halfords. Our own brand
Apollo cycle range is the best selling
cycle brand in the country and our higher
end Carrera brand is also performing well.
There are now 339 Bikehut subshops 
in Halfords stores and we have 511
colleagues trained in cycle repair skills.
Going forward, we will be establishing 
cycle training stores of excellence
nationwide and in the Republic of Ireland,
to ensure that we maintain and build
even greater capability across our
business.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006
