 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
06/07
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
During the financial year, Halfords has continued to deliver further
growth, demonstrating strong resilience to both a challenging
retail environment and changing market dynamics through a
combination of a differentiated offer, our unique service
proposition and a proactive trading approach.
The essence of Halfords’ successful business model lies in our
range differentiation, our service and strong defensive
characteristics. We are both market leader and store of first choice
in each of our key markets. We have the UK’s largest range of car
parts, a third of the UK cycle market and are now clearly
established as the UK’s leading provider of In-Car Technology
solutions. Our product offer is delivered from a portfolio of 426
stores, the significant majority of which are located in popular
retail parks throughout the country.
Our breadth of range and our scale of stores across the UK and
also within the Republic of Ireland, are underpinned by the
competitive advantage provided by the informed service and
product fitting capability of our store-based colleagues. Halfords
therefore possesses a combination of characteristics which
continue to provide a strong defence against any material form of
scale competition.
During the financial year, Halfords has built on its strong
performance in previous years by delivering a year-on-year sales
increase of 9.1% which includes growth across each of our key
categories. As well as maintaining sales momentum through a
similar sales growth profile in each half year, a proactive
management of the product mix and supplier base has also
enabled us to grow cash margin and significantly arrest the level
of percentage margin dilution experienced in the previous 
financial year.
We continue to successfully focus on each of the four key
elements of our business strategy: 
■ Investing in the store portfolio
■ Leveraging the Halfords brand
■ Improving the supply chain
■ Marketing the Halfords service proposition
■■ INVESTING IN THE STORE PORTFOLIO
In recent years our focus has been on reinvesting in the existing
store estate, to ensure that our store environment remains
contemporary and our customers are presented with our latest
offer. This programme, involving varying degrees of re-
invigoration, is now essentially complete. 
A combination of investment in our existing stores, often
increasing capacity through the addition of mezzanine floors, and
the opening of new stores has added 32% of space to our
portfolio since 2001. We believe our market leading position can
be further enhanced by the development of at least 130 further
stores across the UK and the Republic of Ireland. Our portfolio
investment emphasis will now move towards a stronger store
opening programme.
The Halfords Group now has 376 Superstores, with well over half
in a mezzanine format and over 100 stores in a supermezzanine
format, which remains our format of choice. As at 30 March 2007,
Halfords Group had a total of 426 stores trading, including two
stand-alone Bikehuts.
Ian McLeod “The essence of Halfords’
successful business model
lies in our range
differentiation and strong
defensive characteristics.”
■■ LEISURE
BOARDMAN BIKES
The new Boardman range of bikes designed by Olympic and triple
world champion Chris Boardman MBE (pictured above), places
Halfords at the forefront of specialist bike development offering
superior quality products at the most competitive prices. The
range of bikes and accessories available exclusively at Halfords
and standalone Bikehut stores includes road, mountain and
commuter bikes.
CAMPING RANGE
On the back of our success in 2006, we have further developed
our range for 2007 with the introduction of our Urban Escape
premium camping range. Product development continues to drive
sales growth in this attractive market, while a newly re-branded
sub shop identity has provided range clarity.
CARRERA
Fifty new models of the Carrera range have been introduced this
year. Carrera is Britain’s best selling premium cycle brand and
continues to grow supported by positive reviews from the
specialist cycling media. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
08/09
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The Halfords re-branding strategy is complete with all stores now
in our orange livery (with the exception of three, which will close
this year). We will continue to invest in our existing estate through
ongoing mezzanine introduction, complemented by a series of
refresher activity and space rebalancing programmes, to ensure
that our current estate continues to benefit from improvements in
product display and adjacency. 35 such space rebalances took
place last year, with a similar level of activity planned for 2007/08.
Most of our store portfolio is located on prime retail parks with A1
consents, where an increasing number of retailers wish to
participate. Given our destination store status, this additional
demand enables us, in certain circumstances, to readjust our
store size (by introducing a mezzanine for example) or by
relocating completely. As this activity frees up incremental rental
space within the park we are able to negotiate contributions from
landlords to facilitate our portfolio programme.
Stores involved in such activity benefit from portfolio investment
either as a newly built replacement store or receive an upgrade to
the latest footprint. Significantly, each of the stores impacted by
these changes in the last two years has remained located in its
existing retail park, and achieved above average sales growth
following the change.
Recognising the quality of our store portfolio and our destination
status in the minds of our customers, we would envisage such
opportunities continuing at a similar level for the foreseeable
future.
Rental inflation has been accelerating in recent years, which has
proved challenging given the inherent cost growth. However, it has
become evident that rental inflation is now decelerating, which will
clearly be beneficial at future rent reviews.
■■ NEW FORMATS
We continue to develop new store formats and have focused on
two different customer propositions:
■ Neighbourhood stores
■ Stand-alone Bikehut
■■ NEIGHBOURHOOD STORES
Complementing Halfords’ traditional focus on full offer
Superstores, we have developed a smaller store format, known
internally as the Neighbourhood store. Stores of this nature
typically operate from a retail footprint of 4,000 ft
2
and carry 6,000
product lines compared to 9,000 ft
2
and 10,000 lines in a
Superstore.
These stores are proving successful in bringing the Halfords brand
to smaller catchments, such as Midsummer Norton and Aberdare.
The performance of the Neighbourhood stores opened to date has
proved encouraging, generating payback periods very similar to
our current Superstore portfolio. These stores will be located in
either market towns or urban infill sites and we believe there are
opportunities to develop about 60 stores in this format in the UK
over time.
The new travel and touring sub shop has been introduced to 249 stores
providing a dedicated shopping environment for customers. New products,
new packaging and in-store communications enable customers to better
understand the choices between different ranges and sales have shown an
increase since the introduction of the sub shop concept.
TOURING SUB-SHOP We have opened 15 of these stores to date, with a further six
stores planned to open in the Neighbourhood format in the new
financial year.
■■ STAND-ALONE BIKEHUT
Halfords has steadily grown its cycle and cycle accessory
business in recent years and established Bikehut as a credible
sub-brand within the market.
Our Apollo and Carrera own brand cycles have developed
considerably and now arguably lead the market in terms of value.
We have successfully supported the product offer with the
recruitment and training of specialist colleagues to advise
customers and also build and safety check their bikes for them. In
addition, Bikehut branded parts and accessories are now
established as an authoritative range of private label products and
an accredited cycle repair and full maintenance programme has
also been introduced.
This has placed us in a strong position to launch a number of
stand-alone specialist cycle shops under the Bikehut brand. Our
visible commitment to the premium sector of the market has also
attracted a broader range of specialist cycling brands to be
available in these stores, including Condor, De Rossa, Pashley,
Marzocchi, Endura and Gore-Tex.
Two initial pilot stores have opened in Brighton (November 2006)
and Putney (February 2007) with encouraging results. Compared
to our overall market share, we are under-represented in the
premium cycle market, which is characterised by a fragmented
population of independent specialist stores. We are confident we
can compete very effectively and through Bikehut can grow share
in this sector.
The store look and feel is completely different to a Bikehut sub-
shop within a Halfords store. It has a clear individual identity and a
large range which has a 60% difference to our Superstore offering,
in order to appeal to the specialist consumer.
We anticipate operating from six stores by the end of this year as
an extended pilot project and assuming success, intend to roll out
to approximately 50 stores across the country.
■■ INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
The Republic of Ireland has been a very successful market entry
for Halfords with above average returns on investment being
generated from those stores opened to date. From only two stores
trading in January 2005, we are now trading from 12, with six
opening during the current financial year.
There is scope for approximately 20 Superstores in total with
further potential provided by our Neighbourhood format for
smaller catchments.
The Bikehut stand-alone concept was first
introduced in November 2006 and there
are now two stores trading in Putney and
Brighton with encouraging results. Sold by
dedicated and informed store colleagues,
product ranges are 60% differentiated from
those in mainstream Halfords stores to
cater for the specialist demands of the
cycling enthusiast.
BIKEHUT STAND-ALONE STORE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
10/11
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Building upon the success and learning from our expansion into
the Republic of Ireland in recent years, this year has seen
unprecedented levels of activity in pursuing opportunities to take
the Halfords brand to new international markets.
Our first major step to the internationalisation of the Halfords
brand has been the establishment of an office in Prague in the
Czech Republic, complete with a local team with retail and buying
expertise, supported by functional experts in the UK. 
A full product offer has been created for the Central European
market, with over 10,000 lines evaluated to meet the needs of the
local market with product sourced either locally in Central Europe,
or through our UK and global supply partners. A complementary
in-country logistics infrastructure has been developed and
systems implemented.
The first store will open in Prague in the first half of this financial
year, to be followed by two further stores in the third quarter. The
combination of our wide and extensive ranges, high levels of
customer service and a full garage-servicing offer, will bring a
highly differentiated retail proposition to the Czech market. 
A programme of site identification and evaluation is under way to
take advantage of the growing and attractive market in the Czech
Republic and expansion in adjacent territories will follow after
evaluation of the pilot stores.
■■ LEVERAGING THE HALFORDS BRAND
The Halfords product portfolio comprises three major categories:
Car Maintenance (Car Parts and Servicing Consumables), Car
Enhancement (In-Car Technology and Performance Styling) and
Leisure (Cycling, Touring and Camping).
■■ CAR MAINTENANCE
Car Maintenance provides an underlying strength and stability to
our business, given the needs-driven nature of the product ranges
and we are pleased to see continued sales growth in this area.
Servicing consumables such as car bulbs, wiper blades, batteries
and oils comprise the significant majority of sales within this
category and benefit from two favourable dynamics. Firstly, they
inevitably need replacing if the consumer wishes to maintain a
legal and reliable vehicle on the road, providing Halfords with a
dependable customer stream given our ‘store of first choice’
status and breadth of range. Secondly, these products are non-
discretionary, needs-driven purchases with low price elasticity.
Our comprehensive stock of 3 million car parts (covering
approximately 93% of cars in the UK) and our market leading
authority ensures Halfords has strong product availability
consistent with consumer demand. A good example of our range
authority is that we carry over 80 different product lines of oil,
acting as a real competitive advantage as manufacturers become
increasingly specific about the oil that they recommend to owners
of their marque.  “Car maintenance provides
underlying strength and
stability to our business . . .
and we are pleased to see
continued sales growth in
this area.”
■■ CAR MAINTENANCE
CAR MAINTENANCE
Through our authority in car bulbs, wiper blades, batteries and
oils, this category provides an underlying resilience to our
business. Car maintenance products have continued to grow from
needs driven purchases, where extensive range breadth and high
levels of availability give Halfords a competitive advantage.  
SCRATCH, CHIP AND DENT REPAIR SERVICE
Customers across the country are now benefiting from this service
that rolled out nationally in October 2006.  With instant quotes
available from all Halfords stores, our Car Care Service offers
convenience and quality from the UK’s leading car parts retailer.
Services are performed by body shop trained technicians and
guaranteed for three years and include scratch, chip and dent
repair, bumper scuff repair, alloy wheel refurbishment and
professional valeting. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
12/13
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
New mobile phone legislation that came into
effect in February 2007 resulted in strong
sales of hands free phone solutions. In line
with Halfords profile as the UK’s leading
retailer of in car technology, all stores now
feature vibrant imagery and clear point of sale
allowing customers to choose from our
market leading range from Bluetooth
earpieces through to professionally, fully fitted
hard wire solutions.
HANDS FREE LEGISLATION
✔
✘
■■ CAR ENHANCEMENT
Car Enhancement continued to show growth during the year
reflecting an increasing emphasis, particularly by the younger
consumer, on enhancing the interior as opposed to the exterior of
their vehicles.
Targeting those customers, we have introduced new and
enhanced ranges aimed at broadening the appeal of our interior
accessory offer and have benefited from encouraging sales
growth as a result. 
The changing dynamics of the in-car electronics market has also
had a major impact, driven by innovation in technology and an
increase in own brand products. Our combination of market
leading range, knowledgeable colleagues and unique fitting
capability ensures that Halfords has the right technology solution
to meet customers’ requirements. Reflecting this service
advantage, across the total car enhancement category we fitted
over 275,000 technology solutions into our customers’ cars.
The trend towards digital music devices such as the iPod and
MP3 players and the desire to use these devices in-car has been
met with new product ranges being developed that allow the
customer to play their digital music through their car speakers.
This changing technology mix increased average retail prices
within this sector of the market in the second half of the year. Own
label mix of business has also significantly increased year on year
through the successful introduction of a number of own brand
products, including satellite navigation, in-car DVD and CD
players. Own brand accounted for over 20% of CD audio sales in
the year, driven by Ripspeed, which is now a top 5 UK in-car
entertainment brand in its own right. 
New mobile phone legislation that came into effect at the end of
February 2007 resulted in strong sales of hands free phone
solutions. Motorists caught using a mobile phone in their car now
risk a three points penalty and a £60 fine. Halfords range of Hands
Free Phone Kits covers all solutions from bluetooth earpieces
through to professionally, fully fitted hard wire solutions.
The satellite navigation market continued to grow strongly during
the last 12 months and Halfords continues to be the pre-eminent
retailer for these products, given our range strength, product
knowledge and unique “Set Up and Demo” proposition. 
We have enjoyed good relations with all key suppliers within this
sector and our improved forward planning of range activity and
marketing has enabled us to both grow sales and improve
profitability. Industry estimates vary, but a consensus would place
total car parc penetration for satellite navigation at approximately
10% of the 33 million cars on the road in the UK, indicating that a
combination of market potential and product innovation will
continue to drive growth in this category. 13562
“Our combination of market
leading range, knowledgeable
colleagues and unique fitting
capability, ensures that
Halfords has the right
technology solution to meet
customers’ requirements.”
■■ CAR ENHANCEMENT
IN-CAR TECHNOLOGY
As the UK’s number one retailer of in-car technology, Halfords is
committed to sourcing market-leading products at competitive
prices. This financial year saw continued range development and
included the successful introduction of private label electronics
under our Ripspeed brand, offering customers yet more choice. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
14/15
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
■■ LEISURE
Two-thirds of leisure sales are driven from our Cycling category.
Through Apollo, the UK’s best selling bike brand, and Carrera, the
UK’s leading premium cycle brand, our reputation for bikes and
cycle accessories continues to be enhanced by the evolution and
development of these private label products by our specialist
cycle team.
During the year we continued to serve more customers, with one
in three bikes bought in the UK being purchased from Halfords.
Further development of our Apollo brand, across a number of
consumer segments such as Kids, Junior, BMX, Adult and the
recently introduced Folding Bike ranges, has been recognised by
customers who have made Apollo the UK’s best selling bike brand.
The Carrera range was relaunched in September 2006, with bold
new designs and specifications designed around the needs of the
enthusiast cyclist with greater choice across Road, Hybrid,
Mountain and with more women specific variants. The Carrera
range now includes carbon fibre frame components for the first
time and a new All Terrain Mountain Bike — the Banshee X that
takes Carrera above the £600 price point for the first time. The
new Carrera Subway 1 was awarded 10/10 with a Best Buy Award
by Cycling Plus Magazine in March 2007.
All these cycle ranges are good examples of our ability to source
directly from the Far East with improved cost prices but also
improved quality and specification of individual models as we
have a direct influence on the final specification. This allows us to
provide quality bikes that deliver both competitive retail prices and
improved buying margins. 
Working in collaboration with GT, a recognised worldwide
premium cycle brand based in the US, a completely new and
exclusive range of bikes was designed in direct discussion with
Halfords and launched exclusively in our stores in October. The
response from customers and specialist press has been excellent,
with the new GT I Drive 5 XCR voted a test winner and receiving a
Gold Award in What MTB magazine.
For the new financial year we have also been developing further
specialist premium ranges in support of further sales opportunities
in this sector. Voodoo, an exclusive product range from the USA,
will be launched in Bikehut stand-alones and our better
performing Bikehut sub-shops.
Our most exciting development for 2007/08 will be the launch of
an exclusive range of premium cycles under the Boardman brand.
30 frame sizes across nine different models are the fruition of two
years’ development with Chris Boardman, Olympic gold medallist
and the best cyclist Britain has ever produced. Bikes will be made
to a very high specification but priced very competitively within
this sector of the market.
When new child seat legislation was
introduced in September 2006, Halfords
stock levels were increased to take full
advantage of increased customer demand.
Our marketing programme heightened
awareness of the impending legislation
change and our 2000 trained colleagues
enabled our customers to make an
informed product choice for their child.
CHILD SEAT LEGISLATION The continued roll-out of the supermezzanine format has helped
support additional product and brand choice within Bikehut at
Halfords. Bikehut sub-shops are now in place in all of our 376
Superstores across the country. Each includes a bike workshop
that adds credibility to the Bikehut sub-brand as a specialist bike
retailer. An increasing number of customers are recognising the
quality of bikes and service at Halfords, which is why more
consumers purchased a bike from Halfords than from all the
independent cycle retailers in the UK added together.
The extension of Bikehut from a retail brand to a product brand
through a range of premium cycle accessories has been well
received by customers who are looking for high quality
accessories at affordable prices. The Bikehut brand is our fastest
growing accessory brand with many products sourced directly
through Halfords Asia which ensures direct control over product
design and quality delivering competitive retail prices, strong
buying margins and exclusivity. Sales of Bikehut accessories are
now close to £10m, only two years after their launch.
On 18 September 2006, legislation was introduced which made it
a legal requirement to place all children under 12 years old or 
135 cm in height on a booster seat in a car, as well as wearing a
safety belt. Demand for such child seats increased considerably
immediately prior to and also after the legislative change. In
anticipation, we increased our stocks of these products and
reaped the sales benefit of the demand surge as a consequence.
Clearly such sales were beneficial but, placed in context, child
travel products still remain a relatively small proportion of our total
sales mix. 
Changes to our travel and camping ranges and managing the
price architecture within travel products generated encouraging
sales growth and improved profitability across these product
areas. Travel has now been developed as a clearly defined sub-
shop within the store in time for 2007 summer period and we
would anticipate the category growth to continue.
Within Camping considerable effort was made to source products
directly from the Far East that would appeal to the Halfords
customer. Family tent packs were introduced under the Halfords
brand name and sales exceeded our expectations. Equally, the
move to private label enhanced profitability. On the back of 2006
success, we anticipate further growth in this attractive market and
have further developed our range for 2007 with the introduction of
our Urban Escape premium camping range. 
■■ IMPROVING THE SUPPLY CHAIN
A further key element of the Halfords strategy has been to
increase the proportion of product, predominantly private label,
which is sourced directly from the Far East. This objective enables
our sourcing teams both in the UK and in Asia to exercise far
greater influence and control over the specification, quality and
functionality of products, often influencing manufacturers in their
own product development strategy, given the level of expertise
and market understanding our trading teams possess. 
A further material benefit is that by sourcing directly and avoiding
the requirement to source through agents we also benefit from
improved cost prices.
Price benefits are either reflected in our margin, or reinvested in
price or product specification to grow sales and market share or a
combination of both. Given the relatively low stock-turn of our
product range, some of these benefits agreed with suppliers
during the last financial year will continue to flow during the
forthcoming year as the new product becomes available.
In June 2004, our sales penetration of product directly sourced
from the Far East was 7%. We set an initial target of 20%
penetration within three years and have now achieved that target
ahead of schedule. We now source directly from eight different
countries in the Far East.
“Increasing numbers of
customers are recognising the
quality of bikes and service at
Halfords, which is why more
consumers purchased a bike
from us than from all the
independent cycle retailers in
the UK added together.” CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
16/17
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
In recent months we have recruited individuals with sourcing
expertise in electronics and as a result we have been able to
introduce a series of own brand in-car technology products,
including Satellite Navigation, In-car DVD, and In-car CD players,
which also include functionality to play music downloaded onto
MP3 hardware (e.g. the iPod).
These new product developments (often market leading) within in-
car technology have supported the early achievement of our
penetration target and give us confidence that we can achieve
greater levels of sales penetration in the future. 
■■ ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION
We are naturally aware of the increasing need for all companies to
operate responsibly with regard to their impact on the
environment. During the year, we have put in place a series of
initiatives that will, over time, see further improvements and
economies generated from Halfords operations. These initiatives
include:
■ improved efficiency of our transport fleet
■ improvements in cardboard recycling
■ improved energy efficiency from stores
During the course of the year, through a combination of engine
selection on new tractor units, fuel consumption efficiency training
for drivers, and more efficient vehicle loading, we have seen an
increase in weight of product carried per kilometre by 6%. This
means that fewer vehicles were required to deliver our product
supply requirement to stores and also used less fuel doing so, as
fuel efficiency improved by 7%.
The cardboard recycling scheme was extended to all stores
during the year, such that over 95% of all cardboard waste
generated is recycled. We have also reduced the level of waste
consigned to landfill year on year by around 35%.
Within our stores, a three year plan has been agreed in
partnership with the Carbon Trust to reduce store emissions by a
further 8% over that period.
■■ MARKETING THE HALFORDS PROPOSITION
Halfords continued to develop its service offering and delivered
another strong year in its fitting and repair services. Almost 1.2
million customers experienced our professional “we fit” and “we
repair” services, an increase of 13% over 2006. Further research
conducted during the year confirmed the brand enhancement and
loyalty-driving qualities of these services, with 70% of customers
who had a product fitted by Halfords indicating a likelihood to visit
Halfords more often in the future. 
We continued to invest in store colleague training via the launch of
our training stores network with 700 colleagues now capable of
hardwire technology fitting and almost 2,000 trained to
professionally and safely install child seats. We also now have
over 1,500 colleagues trained to deliver our unique satellite
navigation “Set up and Demo” service. Sales of our “Bike Care”
bike maintenance and warranty product improved during the year,
helping to deliver a 25% increase in repair jobs.
We also rolled out nationally our unique “Scratch, Chip and Dent”
repair service, where customers can have minor bodywork marks
repaired at a fraction of the cost of bodyshops, with pleasing
levels of early customer uptake.
Halfords are continually improving measures to understand and reduce its carbon
footprint. As part of our ongoing initiatives within our transport fleet our fuel
efficiency has improved by 7% through a combination of engine selection on new
tractor units, fuel consumption efficiency training for drivers and more efficient
vehicle loading.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION Developing and increasing the level of uptake for our services will
remain a key focus for us in the coming year as we continue to
differentiate ourselves in the retail marketplace. 
Work was also undertaken during the year to align store team
rotas to better meet customer demand patterns for our fitting
services in order to deliver higher levels of “on demand” fitting for
products such as wiper blades, bulbs and batteries.
A monitoring system was implemented within store operations,
allowing us to interrogate current in-store rota construction. We
have re-engineered store rotas to optimise the percentage of
hours available at weekends to meet customer footfall. All stores
achieved their optimum rotas during the second quarter of the
year and these have been maintained since that time. 
The consumer trend towards greater levels of on-line usage seen
in the retail and broader consumer market was also felt in Halfords
with an extremely pleasing performance from Halfords.com.
Significant growth was achieved in website visitors, as well as on-
line sales and conversion. Improvements in our website navigation
also help customers more easily research on-line before buying
either on the site or in store. 
During the year, we implemented a new e-commerce fulfilment
system providing flexibility and scalability for future growth. With
the Internet continuing to influence a growing proportion of retail
sales, we will continue to develop our site to ensure we meet the
needs of Halfords’ customers. Developments are planned to
further improve our customers’ research and shopping experience
and we expect to introduce a “reserve on line, collect in store”
service in 2007 as part of our plans for multi-channel
development.
■■ OUTLOOK
The financial year ended 30 March 2007 is the third year since
Halfords became a listed company and in each of these years we
have delivered like-for-like sales growth. Active margin
management across all categories has arrested the margin dilution
effect of the previous year and we expect to maintain a broadly
neutral margin position in the forthcoming year, generating gross
margins in excess of 50%.
Our strategic focus remains to consolidate our position further
within our key markets, deliver additional growth from new
product areas, proactively source product directly from
manufacturers, wherever possible, and enhance our store portfolio
through opening new stores across each of our formats as well as
internationally. 
We have a disciplined reinvestment policy. Following on from the
success of our investments in the Republic of Ireland we are on
track to develop our international portfolio. Although at an early
stage, we also see clear potential for the success of new formats
such as Neighbourhood and our stand-alone bike retailing format
Bikehut.
The combination of our category sales and margin initiatives, our
space growth and the unique service advantage pursued through
the hard work of our colleagues continue to give us confidence in
Halfords’ future prospects and optimism for the delivery of further
growth in the forthcoming year.
Ian McLeod, Chief Executive
6 June 2007
Now currently established as our Number
One store, Halfords.com generated
encouraging increases in both unique
visitors and conversion year on year.  We
will continue to extend our multi-channel
offer, including improvements in product
imaging and a reserve on line and collect
in-store initiative planned for the new
financial year.  
HALFORDS ONLINE
