 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04/05
Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
I am pleased to report that Halfords has delivered a strong set of
results. Sales growth of 9.1% has been achieved which, with
reduced margin dilution, has generated earnings per share 
growth of 9.3%.
These results, together with the Board’s confidence in the
business strategy, enable the Board to recommend a final
dividend of 9.50 pence, which, with the interim dividend of 
4.35 pence, takes the total dividend for the year to 13.85 pence,
representing growth of 8.6% on last year’s dividend of 
12.75 pence.
Following Nick Carter’s resignation, the Board was pleased to
announce the appointment of Nick Wharton as Finance Director,
with effect from 3 February 2007. Paul McClenaghan was also
appointed to the Board with effect from 31 March 2007. On behalf
of the Board I would like to thank Nick Carter for his contribution
to Halfords and wish him well in his future career.
Nick Wharton is a Chartered Accountant and has been a member
of the senior management team at Halfords for five years, having
played pivotal roles in both Halfords’ separation from Boots
Company plc in 2002 and Halfords’ listing on the London Stock
Exchange in 2004. Through his role as Business Development
Director, Nick has been instrumental in developing the
international expansion strategy and new trading formats,
including the stand-alone Bikehut proposition.
Paul McClenaghan joined Halfords in 2005 as Trading Director. In
his time at Halfords, Paul has implemented strategies focused on
developing Halfords’ market leading positions in its core markets,
as well as expanding the product and service offerings into new
markets.
Nick and Paul join a strong Board team. The business is very
effectively led by our Chief Executive, Ian McLeod, and our
capable non-executive team of Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill
Ronald bring a wide range of experience to Board discussions.
The entire Halfords team, from colleagues based in stores through
to those in our head office and distribution centres, share a
common purpose of delivering market leading knowledge, choice
and service to our customers. Their hard work and dedication has
generated these strong results.
The Halfords brand was established in 1907, and it is encouraging
in our centenary year 2007 that the business is trading
successfully and we have every reason to be confident in the
future of Halfords.
Richard Pym, Chairman
6 June 2007
Richard Pym “The hard work and dedication
of the entire Halfords team has
generated these strong results.”
■■ COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE OFFERINGS
SERVICE EXPERTISE
With over 1.2m fitting jobs completed during the year, Halfords
wefit Service continues to enhance our product offering,
differentiates us from our competitors and positions store
colleagues as experts in their field.
Halfords comprehensive training programme delivered through a
combination of on the job training and 42 designated training
stores has resulted in: 
■ 2,000 trained and accredited child seat fitters
■ 1,500 specialists delivering our unique sat nav ‘set up and
demo’
■ 700 trained hard wire (in-car entertainment) fitters
