 08
18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
 Introduction
Chairman’s Statement
Financial year 2011 has seen an extended period of economic 
uncertainty and a fragile consumer market, a new Government in 
May 2010, an austerity budget in June and an increase in VAT to 
20% in January 2011. Recognising this backdrop, management 
has focused on strengthening the core Halfords Retail division 
and on delivering its development plan for the recently acquired 
Autocentres business. 
In Retail, revenue was down 5.2% reflecting the tough trading 
environment, but operating profit rose by 1.5% (excluding Central 
Europe) due to both margin expansion and costs being tightly 
managed. A number of significant change initiatives including the 
reconfiguration of the Group’s warehouse and distribution 
network and the remodelling of staffing structures began to bear 
fruit, albeit after some disruption during the year, and the closure 
of our Central European operations was completed as 
scheduled. Our Autocentres business contributed £7million 
operating profit in its first full year and, although below our initial 
target, we are pleased with this investment. 
As a result, growth in both underlying profit before tax of 7.2% 
and in earnings per share of 8.8% was achieved. Importantly, 
cash generation was robust, as is the Group’s financial position. 
This has enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of 14 
pence per share resulting in a total of 22 pence for the year, an 
increase of 10% over the dividend of 20 pence paid last year. 
The strength of the Group’s cash flows and financial position will 
enable the Board to ensure that shareholders continue to enjoy 
an attractive dividend distribution in the years ahead.
In November 2010, we secured a four year £300m revolving 
credit facility. This provides the Group with sufficient headroom 
and undrawn financing facilities to service its operating activities, 
working capital and on-going capital investment. In addition, in 
April 2011 we commenced a £75m share buyback programme. 
This reflects the Board’s policy of maintaining an efficient capital 
structure.
Halfords Retail maintains market-leading positions across a 
unique blend of product categories that are made available to 
customers via a truly national 466 store network and a highly 
responsive multichannel offer. To complement the product offer, 
store colleagues are charged with providing expert customer 
advice and delivering a suite of value-for-money wefit services. 
Dedication to this high service mantra for our customers is 
sacrosanct and non-negotiable.
Having acquired Nationwide Autocentres in February 2010, we 
have embarked upon a re-branding of the entire network. This 
was concluded in March 2011 and was heralded by the launch 
of a new radio advertising campaign and revamped website. 
Since then, the boost in revenues has been most encouraging. 
The plan remains to open some 30 stores in FY12. 
As the Group entrenches its reputation as the UK’s natural 
destination for “Life on the move”, products and services, we 
launched a consolidated national advertising campaign “that’s 
helpful that’s halfords”. The objective is to reinforce the service 
proposition that Halfords offers to its customers through a simple 
message.
At a time when the environment has been difficult for customers, 
David Wild, our Chief Executive Officer, and his experienced 
executive team have managed the business with vigour. They 
have adopted a trading strategy that offers great value, expert 
services and many new products, including the re-launch of our 
entire Premium Cycle range and the re-branding of the Halfords 
Autocentres, whilst maintaining a clear focus on cost control 
across the Group.
“To complement the product offer, 
store colleagues are charged with 
providing expert customer advice and 
delivering a suite of value-for-money 
wefit services. ”
Dennis Millard
Chairman Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
09 Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2011.com
18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
This year we welcomed to the board, Claudia Arney, who provides the 
board with broad multichannel experience, David Adams, with deep 
experience in retail and finance and who now chairs the Audit 
Committee, and Andrew Findlay as Finance Director with strong retail 
and finance credentials, latterly with Marks & Spencer. Nigel Wilson has 
stepped down from the board after seven years having been Audit 
Committee chairman and latterly our SID. Nick Wharton, our previous 
Finance Director also left the board after four years as a director with 
Halfords. We wish them both well and thank them for their dedicated 
service. 
The Board has endeavoured to provide strong entrepreneurial 
leadership and governance. We have met on a number of occasions 
outside the scheduled nine meeting calendar as the need arose to 
consider new opportunities and challenges. Each member is actively 
engaged in interacting frequently with the management and my key role 
as chairman is to provide an open and challenging environment on the 
board. Given the recent changes to the board, we decided to postpone 
our annual board review until late in the year to give the new members 
the opportunity to settle in to Halfords. We then undertook a more 
personalised Board evaluation process than in the past, the learning’s 
of which will be adopted in the year ahead.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank the 9,300 loyal and 
dedicated Halfords colleagues in the store network, head office and 
distribution centres who have responded so positively to the needs of 
our customers and to the many initiatives implemented this year, and 
also to the 1,700 Autocentre staff who have performed so well in their 
first year as Halfords colleagues. 
Since the beginning of the 2012 financial year, the underlying UK 
consumer environment has remained difficult though the unusually 
warm weather and proximity of numerous bank holidays in April 
resulted in a surge in retail spending. This was particularly evident in our 
Cycling and Travel Solutions categories on the back of an improving 
trend in the last quarter of FY11. Within Autocentres, the customer 
response to the re-branding has been heartening and the long-term 
growth opportunity of this business remains compelling. We have, 
however, drawn up our plans for the year ahead on the assumption of a 
challenging environment for the remainder of the year and will continue 
to pursue a strategy that further strengthens Halfords’ unique market-
leading product, multichannel and service propositions. 
Dennis Millard 
Chairman 
8 June 2011. 18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
10
Business Review
10
Business Review
Business Review
Market Review 12
Retail Strategy and KPIs 14
Autocentre Strategy and KPIs 18
People and Culture 22
466
halfords.annualreport2011.com/br Go
Use your phone’s 
bar code app and 
go directly to the 
relevant page on 
our website. Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2011.com
18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
11
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
11
