 Business Review
26
18559 17/06/2011 Proof 5
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
The UK and ROI retail sector is going through one of the 
toughest times for many years. A combination of low economic 
growth, higher taxes and successive increases in VAT to 20% 
have reduced disposable income while higher raw material and 
fuel costs have put pressure on input prices.
Halfords’ response has been to do what we do best — to offer 
great value to our customers through the quality and price of our 
products and the expertise and service of our colleagues. In our 
Retail business we have also built sales through Halfords.com, 
made progress with our store portfolio refresh programme and 
significantly extended our wefit services. We have done this 
whilst managing costs sensibly and investing for the future. Our 
Autocentres business, acquired in February 2010, was 
rebranded during the year and is now positioned to leverage the 
Halfords brand in the automotive aftercare sector.
We completed the closure of our operation in Central Europe to 
focus on the growth opportunities in the near term.
Review of Trading
In what has been a difficult trading year the Group generated an 
7.2% increase in underlying PBT and continued cash generation 
for shareholders through good cost management and margin 
control with free cash flow of £54.7m, after paying dividends of 
£46.2m.
Group sales were £869.7m, up 4.6% overall. This reflected the 
acquisition of our Autocentres business, which added £98.1m of 
sales to our Retail sales of £771.6m. 
Within Retail, sales across the year on a like-for-like basis  
(“LfL”) averaged -5.5% as customers responded to economic 
conditions. Our sales performance was also affected by some 
one-off factors like supply issues from the Far East following the 
Chinese New Year, reduced availability during the commissioning 
of our new Distribution Centre and the product balance in our 
bike range.
Car Maintenance had a solid performance growing by 0.6% LfL 
and a raise in market share. We saw strong sales during 
December’s severe winter weather when products like anti-
freeze, de-icer and scrapers sold in record volumes. 
Our wefit service has seen another year of strong growth. We 
now fit 23.5% of the bulbs, blades and batteries we sell as more 
customers look to Halfords for expert help with basic car 
maintenance. 
Car Enhancement suffered from the continued market 
contraction of Sat Nav and Audio. Halfords consistently gained 
share in a declining Sat Nav market across the year. Audio 
gained market share in the last three months, through better 
deals with branded suppliers and a focus on accessory sales.
In Leisure we again saw increases in the sales of tents and 
camping equipment and increased market share. Cycle sales 
were less buoyant, due in part to the range issues in the Spring/
Summer and winter snow that slowed sales pre-Christmas. 
Halfords.com business has grown strongly across the year.  
Sales have increased by 36.4% and now represent 9.2% of total 
Retail sales. We have invested in better technology, site 
information and deals. 
David Wild 
Chief Executive
“In our Retail business we have also 
built sales through Halfords.com, 
made progress with our store 
portfolio refresh programme and 
significantly extended our wefit 
services.” Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
27 Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2011.com
18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
Sales at our Autocentres business were also affected by 
economic conditions and sales decreased by 0.6% LfL as drivers 
cut back on mileage and deferred some repair work. We also 
decided to delay our marketing spend until the completion of 
rebranding and refurbishment of the whole Autocentres estate so 
that we could advertise on a national basis. Since the relaunch of 
the centres and a new Autocentres Website we have seen 
encouraging signs of increased awareness and sales. 
Operational progress
While the sales performance has been challenging, this year has 
been a period of significant operational progress for the group. 
Our major initiatives have enhanced customer service, reduced 
costs and established a solid platform for future growth. 
We successfully reconfigured our distribution network with a new 
Distribution Centre at Coventry, equipped with state-of-the-art 
logistics technology. Following some initial disruption, the new 
DC is now running smoothly and was a major contributor to the 
excellent availability of winter products in our stores pre-
Christmas. The second element of our revised logistics is our 
Redditch warehouse dedicated to cycles.
We also reorganised our store staff structure and rostering 
schedule and strengthened store management. This makes 
more staff available to serve customers during peak periods, 
provides a clearer career path for colleagues and brings savings 
in our overall cost of labour.
New brand campaign 
Our plans for the year ahead are supported by the launch of our 
new brand campaign “that’s helpful, that’s halfords”. This 
reinforces our unique service proposition, demonstrating how we 
understand our customer’s needs and can help them live life on 
the move. These initiatives give us the potential to trade more 
strongly in the year ahead.
Retail
Our consistent strategy continues to provide a roadmap for the 
development of our retail business.
Whilst the economic environment will remain tough in the year 
ahead, we remain confident that our leading positions in strong 
markets, and the continued development of our multichannel 
offer will continue to provide good opportunities for future 
growth, backed by active gross margin management and tight 
cost control.
Our ongoing focus is to offer great value to our customers 
through the quality and price of our products and the expertise 
and service of our colleagues.
“While the sales performance has 
been challenging, this year has been a 
period of significant operational 
progress for the group.”
Car maintenence
31% £242.6m
Car enhancement
29% £219.6m
Leisure
40% £309.4m
Retail 
88.7% £771.6m 
Autocentres
11.3% £98.1m
Group
Revenue
£869.7m
Group Revenue
wefit/werepair
jobs
‘000s
+5.9%
2,136
2,263
+5.9%
+35.5%
+97.0%
2009 2010 2011
1,576
800
2008 28
18559 17/06/2011 Proof 5
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review continued
We will:
1. Extend our range and service advantage
2. Invest in our store portfolio
3. Continue to focus on cost control
4. Leverage the Halfords brand in multichannel
1. Extending our range and service advantage
Range 
Halfords Retail maintains market-leading positions across a 
unique blend of categories with ranges of unrivalled breadth and 
depth. Our scale provides a unique ability to develop and source 
high quality, own brand alternatives to branded ranges. These 
offer customers real value through innovative, high specification 
products at great prices and create a competitive advantage for 
Halfords. This programme complements the close association 
and exclusivity we have with many leading global manufacturers 
brands.
Halfords Apollo is the nation’s leading bike brand and this year 
we completely relaunched the range with 16 new models with 
stronger designs and a focus on the trend towards hybrid bikes 
for adults. In our Travel Solutions ranges we successfully 
launched a new exclusive brand of child seats called Pampero 
and a redesigned range of Exodus roof boxes. We developed 
and extended our camping range and were particularly 
successful with our Halfords and Urban Escape branded tent 
packs. Meanwhile in Car Entertainment we were the first movers 
in the development of a digital radio offering through the 
introduction of our new own-brand Sonichi units. 
Looking to the year ahead our focus on product innovation 
continues. We have launched a 2011 range of Boardman cycles, 
designed exclusively for Halfords in the UK by former Olympic 
Champion Chris Boardman. This completely new range of 17 
models has already been widely acclaimed for its leading 
designs, construction and price competitiveness and is endorsed 
by world famous riders like Alistair Brownlee, the reigning World 
Triathlon champion. Halfords also has an exclusive arrangement 
to sell Voodoo bikes in the UK, designed by Joe Murray, the 
award-winning American mountain biker. This range offers a 
premium product to the serious mountain bike rider and we have 
introduced a new range for this year. 
Most of the bikes we sell we also build for our customers. This 
year we are extending our range to include our Trax brand sold 
boxed for self assembly. This quality bike will be available at 
entry-level prices and gives Halfords a competitive offer against 
supermarkets and other non-specialist outlets. These innovations 
mean that Halfords is uniquely positioned to compete strongly at 
all levels of the cycle market from entry level boxed bikes to 
premium cycles for the competitive rider. 
Extending our Service 
The expert knowledge, advice and service of our instore 
colleagues are at the heart of the Halfords customer offer. They 
sell and fit many of our products and this differentiates Halfords 
from our competition, acts as a barrier to market entry and 
generates attractive levels of return.  Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
29 Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2011.com
18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
We build 95% of the bikes we sell and all new bikes come with the offer 
of a free six-week first service. Sales of our Bike Care Plan, which 
provides repairs free of labour charges, increased by over 28.3% during 
the year and have contributed to a 16.3% increase in our service sales 
revenue. 
All product categories include a core service element, for instance, 
more than 2,000 colleagues are professionally trained and accredited 
by RoSPA to fit child seats to cars. The foundation of our fitting 
proposition though is wefit, the on-demand fitting of Car Bulbs, 
Windscreen Blades and Batteries, (3Bs), by our trained in-store 
colleagues. During the year some 1.91 million wefit jobs were 
completed and 23.5% of all 3Bs sold were also fitted. 
Our strategy is to grow awareness of our fitting capability and to 
continue to invest in technical and skills training of colleagues so that 
we can further increase fitting levels. We have set stretching targets for 
the year ahead to increase awareness, uptake and revenue from our 
service offer.
Our colleagues, in all areas of our business, are of paramount 
importance to the provision of both our services and our helpfulness to 
our customers. Their passion and abilities are central to the delivery of 
our strategic objectives and we are extremely proud of their 
commitment and enthusiasm.
“Sales of our Bike Care Plan, which 
provides repairs free of labour 
charges, increased by over 28.3%” Business Review
30
18559 17/06/2011 Proof 5
2. Investing In The Store Portfolio
The location, assortment and layout of the Halfords Retail store estate 
is a key element of our customer proposition. 
With 466 stores trading throughout the UK and Ireland our scale 
supports our position as the store of first choice. 90% of our customers 
live within a 20-minute journey of one of our stores. 
We have refurbished 26 stores with plans for 50 more in the next  
twelve months. The sales uplifts are encouraging and represent a good 
return on the invested capital. In London we are exploring new formats, 
reflecting the shortage of suitable Superstore opportunities.
3. Ongoing focus on cost control
We are committed to an ongoing focus on cost control. This ensures 
efficient use of resources, the correct operating base for the prevailing 
economic environment and the headroom to fund strategic investments 
in future growth. 
Our three major initiatives this year included the reconfiguration of our 
distribution network, the review of our store labour structure and 
favourable negotiations with landlords. 
We have a flexible sourcing policy and work closely with suppliers 
around the globe to ensure we achieve the most competitive product 
costs. Our sourcing team based in Asia control all aspects of the supply 
chain to eliminate unnecessary costs in transport, shipping and stock 
holding. 
Looking to the year ahead, payroll, energy and occupancy costs are 
expected to increase the underlying cost base by around 2.5%. 
Planned investments in incentives and IT infrastructure will add a further 
1.5%. Product cost pressures are also increasing, but our market 
leading positions and sourcing options provide some flexibility.
4. Leveraging the Halfords brand in multichannel
Online sales have grown rapidly during the year by 36.4%, ahead of the 
industry average of 19.9%. Online sales currently represent 
approximately 9.2% of Halfords Retail sales.
We have made enhancing our online offer and further extending our 
multichannel presence an investment priority. In line with market trends, 
we continue to increase the amount of advertising dedicated to this 
medium. This year customers have also added 26,000 ratings and 
reviews, which together with our “Ask and Answer” facility allows 
customers to tap into the expertise and experience of other users. 
In addition to extending the site functionality, we have increased the 
range of products we offer online. Much of the additional inventory is 
managed in partnership with 3rd party suppliers, this reduces stock 
costs and obsolescence risk.
Our strategy is to seamlessly integrate halfords.com and our store 
operations. Our product mix lends itself to this strategy, as customers 
often want further advice, or a demonstration and fitting. Our online 
ordering service offers customers the option of direct delivery or to 
reserve and collect items at their local store. 85% of online transactions 
are collected in store. The ability to add further expert advice and 
service to our online mix gives Halfords a differentiated offer and a 
competitive advantage.
Autocentres
This has been a year of significant progress and integration since we 
acquired the business in February 2010. We carried out detailed 
customer research on how to apply the Halfords brand into the auto 
servicing market and then rebranded and refurbished the whole estate 
of 240 service centres as Halfords Autocentres in a rolling programme 
across the year. Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
31 Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2011.com
18559 20/06/2011 Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
Since rebranding was completed we have been actively promoting 
Halfords Autocentres through a national radio campaign and online 
marketing with encouraging results. 
Halfords Autocentres is an excellent complement to Halfords Retail, 
building on our growing car parts and wefit service business. Car 
aftercare is a large and highly attractive sector with a value of £9bn. 
Capacity is shrinking as the number of independent garages declines 
leading to increasing demand from motorists for a reliable, quality 
independent operator. 
The long-term growth opportunity of this business remains compelling 
given the market size, its fragmentation, the strength of the Halfords 
Autocentres proposition and the potential to leverage the Halfords 
brand. During the year we also opened 16 new centres, 30 new centres 
are targeted in FY12 and in the medium term we believe there is an 
opportunity for up to 600 centres nationally. Further growth 
opportunities exist from fleet customers and accelerating tyre sales. 
Benefits of the operational gearing of the Autocentres business are 
expected as sales improve, supported by cost and purchasing 
synergies.
Summary and outlook
Halfords retains clear leadership in its core retail markets of cycling and 
car maintenance. We are a resilient business with an excellent brand 
and have adapted to the changing needs of our customers by creating 
innovative, quality products at great prices supported by the expertise 
and service of colleagues.
We believe Halfords unique, market-leading position provides strong 
potential for us to consolidate further the fragmented markets in which 
we operate. Our Autocentre business gives us a market leading 
position in a large and unconsolidated market and opens another 
exciting avenue of growth for Halfords. 
We expect the consumer environment to remain challenging, but we 
have demonstrated that our business can make good progress in these 
conditions. Our market leading positions, ongoing actions to reduce 
costs and strong cash flow characteristics provide a solid platform for 
medium term growth through our core strategic growth initiatives.
Through this focus on creating value for our customers and active 
management of the business, the Board believes the Group is well 
positioned for the year ahead.
This has been a demanding year for the business and our colleagues 
have risen to the challenges of the year with energy and determination. 
It is a pleasure to lead such a great team of people and I would like to 
thank them for their adaptability and hard work in the tough 
environment in which we currently operate.
David Wild 
Chief Executive Officer 
8 June 2011
Keeping “Life on the Move” 
Shareholder 
Value
Operational
specialisation
Extending Range & Service 
Single face
to customer
Least cost
back-ofﬁce
Drive growth in 
core business
Leveraging the Halfords brand
Ongoing focus on cost control
Investing in the store portfolio
That’s helpful that’s Halfords
That’s helpful that’s Halfords
That’s helpful that’s Halfords
That’s helpful that’s Halfords
SHAREHOLDERS
S H A R E H O L D E R S
     G R O U P S T R A T E G I C P I L L A R S
O P E R A T I O N A L - S T R A T E G I C P I L L A R S
