 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Business Review 26
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
The last year continued to be a challenging time for the UK and 
ROI consumer sector. People had less disposable income and 
managed their discretionary spend tightly. Motorists particularly 
were affected by higher fuel prices and insurance costs. 
Halfords’ response has been to help customers by creating value 
through the quality and price of our products and the expertise 
and service of our colleagues. Our significant growth areas of 
Cycling, Fitting Services and Autocentres have all performed 
strongly. 
We also continued our store portfolio refresh programme, 
invested for the future in IT infrastructure, introduced new 
products and developed our team. We have done this whilst 
managing costs sensibly. 
The progress in our growth areas both demonstrates how we are 
evolving Halfords from a traditional out-of-town retailer to a 
significant service provider and creating the route to strengthen 
our business further. We are planning to take advantage of these 
opportunities in the year ahead.
Review of Trading
In what has been a tough environment for customers the Group 
generated an underlying profit before tax of £92.2m and 
continued cash generation for shareholders through good cost 
management and margin control with free cash flow of £70.4m 
after taking into account taxation, capital expenditure and net 
finance costs.
Group revenues were £863.1m, down 0.8% overall (Retail 
£752.3m; Autocentres £110.8m). 
Within Retail, revenues across the year on a like-for-like basis 
(“LfL”) were down 2.7%. 
Sales of Car Maintenance products at -4.5% LfL, suffered as 
motorists drove fewer miles and reduced their spending on 
vehicles where possible. The lack of a prolonged spell of winter 
weather, as in the preceding year, also reduced demand for cold 
weather products like de-icers, screen wash and batteries.
The demand for “Do It For Me” fitting continues to build and our 
wefit services have seen another year of strong growth. We now 
fit 26.2% of the bulbs, blades and batteries we sell, as we build 
on Halfords’ unique customer offer and more customers look to 
us for expert help with basic Car Maintenance. 
“In the year ahead we plan to develop this vision to take 
advantage of the opportunities offered by our key growth 
areas and accelerate our transition from traditional retailer 
to a contemporary provider of products and services.”
David Wild
Chief Executive 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
27
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2012.com
The decline in Car Enhancement sales continued as the markets 
for Sat Nav and audio products contract. We have also seen falls 
in sales of Performance Styling and Car Cleaning products 
reflecting the pressure on motorists spending and the changing 
nature of the auto accessory market. 
In Leisure we saw strong growth throughout the year, up 5.0% 
LfL, driven by increases in our cycling revenues through our 
relaunched ranges. 
Halfords.com business, representing c.9% of total Retail sales, 
had a less buoyant year. While we had significantly more visitors 
to our site, fewer of these converted to sales. Cycle Accessories 
and in-car entertainment products performed well, but the sales 
of Sat Navs and child seats declined. During the year we have 
invested in better technology, site information and deals. 
Sales at our Autocentres grew strongly by c.6% LfL and c.13% 
overall, driven by the growing awareness of the Halfords brand in 
the garage servicing sector and recognition by motorists of the 
value we offer. This performance is especially strong when 
compared to the overall auto aftercare market. 
Strategy
Vision
Our customers lead busy lives and each year they make 
thousands of essential journeys. They need to keep moving for 
work and family and they want to travel for their holidays and 
enjoy active leisure time. 
Halfords’ products and services are an essential part of the 
everyday life of millions of people; and we are evolving our offer 
in line with the changing nature of our customers’ needs. 
Our vision is to Help and Inspire Customers with their Life 
on the Move. 
In the year ahead we plan to develop this vision to take 
advantage of the opportunities offered by our key growth areas 
and accelerate our transition from traditional retailer to a 
contemporary provider of products and services. 
We have carried out detailed research to map our areas of 
strength against the requirements and aspirations of our 
customers. This work has identified, and confirmed, that we have 
a significant opportunity to grow in the medium to long term by 
Read online: halfords.annualreport2012.com/cer
Online Product Ranges
Metro
Compact
Superstore
Online
16,000
10,000
6,000
4,200
Option to
“Reserve & Collect” 
16,000 lines from
every stor
Figures quoted are for 
typical store examples
e type
Car Maintenance
27%
Car Enhancement
22%
Leisure
38%
Retail 
87%
Autocentres
13%
Group Revenue £863.1m 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Business Review 28
Chief Executive’s Review continued
building on and evolving our current offering and service 
capability. We have identified three areas where customers 
specifically want our help and which provide opportunities for 
growth and the development of our business.
These three strategic pillars are the Friend of the Motorist, the 
Best Cycle Shop in Town and the Starting Point for Great 
Getaways. 
In each of these areas Halfords can create value for our 
customers through a unique blend of the quality, innovation and 
the price of our products and the expertise and service of our 
colleagues.
Strategic Pillars
The Friend of the Motorist 
The last year has been a particularly challenging time for drivers 
who have faced higher costs. Halfords is uniquely placed to be 
the Friend of the Motorist by providing end-to-end solutions for 
their auto aftercare needs. Through the Car Maintenance parts in 
our Retail stores, in-store fitting services and Autocentres, we 
can provide real value through our products, services and the 
expertise required to take the hassle out of motoring and make 
driving more enjoyable. We can help motorists look after their 
cars, or we can take care of their cars for them.
We stock the widest selection of replacement car parts and 
accessories of any retailer. We can help the motorists who do 
their own maintenance find the right part for their make and 
model and offer alternative price points through our good, better 
and best ranging. 
Halfords also helps motorists with motoring consumables like 
screen-wash, de-icers and car-washing products, plus we are 
the market-leading destination for Sat Navs, Car Audio and 
Performance Styling. While the market for these products is 
declining, we have extended our leadership position and these 
sales continue to contribute to our overall performance.
There is a strong trend towards “Do It For Me” in Car 
Maintenance and Halfords has seen a growing demand for our 
wefit services. The foundation of our fitting proposition is the 
fitting of car bulbs, windscreen blades and batteries (“3Bs”), by 
our trained in-store colleagues. During the year some 2 million 
wefit jobs were completed and 26.2% of all 3Bs sold were also 
fitted. This compares with 23.5% fitted in FY11.
The 3Bs market, selling both product and fitting, is estimated to 
be worth £950m and Halfords only has a small percentage share 
of the market while garages and dealerships have a 75% share. 
Our offer is unique, 7 days a week on-demand fitting at the most 
competitive prices, so there is good potential to win sales and 
grow revenues. Fitting is also a high margin revenue stream and 
an economically favourable one, as labour costs are based on 
retail wage rates as opposed to the mechanics’ rates that 
garages and dealers charge. 
Our strategy is to maintain our DIY parts proposition while driving 
awareness and sales of our fitting capability. We have set 
stretching targets to increase uptake and this year we are 
budgeting for extra marketing, new point-of-sale materials, extra 
colleague hours and training. We are confident that because of 
the historic strong performance in this area, and the extra 
resources we are committing, that fitting is a significant avenue of 
growth for our business.  20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
29
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2012.com
The final element of being the Friend of the Motorist is delivered 
through our Autocentres. We provide MOTs, car servicing and 
repairs and this is a natural extension of Halfords’ retail service 
offer. 
This has been a year of significant progress for Halfords 
Autocentres. As at 30 March 2012, we have 260 autocentres 
and since rebranding we have actively developed our offer and 
promoted Halfords Autocentres through a national radio 
campaign, online marketing and national TV advertising. 
The results have been extremely encouraging and we have seen 
strong sales growth throughout the year as we win new 
customers. Our progress during a period when motorists are 
cutting back is a clear sign that the Halfords brand is increasingly 
viewed as the destination for all auto aftercare needs and as the 
Friend of the Motorist. 
In the year Bill Duffy was promoted to CEO of Halfords 
Autocentres, and Simon Benson recruited as Operations 
Director. We have also relocated our Autocentres Head Office 
from Olton to our Group Head Office site in Redditch; this is 
already bringing benefits in cross-functional working.
The long-term growth opportunity of this business remains 
compelling. There are 32m cars on the UK’s roads and the  
auto aftercare market is large and worth £8bn – £10bn. 
Competition is fragmented; there are around 24,000 garage 
outlets in the UK but numbers are in long-term decline due to 
economic factors. Halfords Autocentres has a good opportunity 
to grow in this environment due to the strength of our proposition 
and the potential to leverage our brand. 
We are developing and investing in our customer relationship 
management. Car MOTs and servicing are linked to the age and 
mileage of vehicles and this lends itself to advanced data 
management systems. A key way we can help customers is to 
anticipate their vehicle’s needs and make the right marketing 
offer to take the stress out of vehicle maintenance and attract 
them to use our autocentres. 
We intend to build on success through the roll-out of new 
autocentres. During the year we opened 20 new autocentres and 
we are targeting up to 30 more in FY13. Further growth 
opportunities exist from fleet customers and accelerating tyre 
sales. We will also continue to invest in growing awareness and 
developing our proposition through innovative products. For 
example our recently launched brakes-4-life offers customers 
free replacement brake parts once they have bought and had 
these parts fitted at Halfords. 
Linking all the elements of our auto aftercare offer together 
means that we can provide all aspects of car maintenance for 
our customers. Our products, services and value, backed by our 
trusted brand, offer real help to drivers and underpin our ambition 
to be the Friend of the Motorist.
The Best Cycle Shop in Town
Our research shows that the cycle shop and its web offer are 
central to the enjoyment and experience of cycling. We recognise 
that although we are the biggest provider of cycles to the UK 
market, at a local level and online we are not necessarily always 
the best cycle shop in every town. This must be our aspiration.
The core of our strategy to be the Best Cycle Shop in Town is 
Halfords’ own and exclusive ranges of cycles. We address the 
whole cycle market from entry level to high performance. 
Our great value Trax range, that is sold boxed for self-assembly, 
gives Halfords a competitive offer against supermarkets and 
other non-specialist outlets. 
Apollo is the UK’s best-selling cycle brand and offers value, 
quality build and good components. 
Carrera provides performance specification and contemporary 
design without the price tag associated with global brands. 
Our exclusive Voodoo range is designed by Joe Murray, the 
award-winning American mountain biker, and is a premium 
product for the serious mountain biker. 
Top of the Halfords’ cycle range are Boardman cycles, designed 
exclusively in collaboration with Halfords by former Olympic 
champion Chris Boardman. This range has been widely 
acclaimed for its leading designs, construction and price 
competitiveness and is endorsed by world famous riders such as 
Alistair Brownlee, the reigning World Triathlon champion.
During the year we redesigned and relaunched many of our 
cycles, including the entire Carrera range of 22 cycles and the 
Voodoo range of 10 cycles. It meant that at Christmas 2011 
broadly half of our cycles were newly designed. 
We will continue to develop and improve our existing brands and 
introduce new ones that offer value and appeal to our 
customers. A good example of this is the Carrera Virago, a 
carbon-fibre road racer for under £1,000, a very competitive 
price for such a quality performance cycle. It has been extremely 
positively reviewed by both the mainstream media and 
specialised cycling press. 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Business Review 30
In addition, to take full advantage of the heightened interest in 
the Olympics, we have introduced limited edition, in British 
colours, Carrera cycles. We have also launched an exclusive 
range of ladies cycles under the Pendleton brand, designed by 
Olympic and World champion cyclist Victoria Pendleton. These 
are aimed at women who want to incorporate some cycling into 
their everyday routine. 
Our innovative and competitively priced ranges mean that 
Halfords is uniquely positioned to compete strongly at all levels of 
the cycle market, providing customers with one of the best 
selections of designs and prices in any cycle shop.
In addition to cycles, we stock a wide range of cycle parts and 
accessories from locks and lights to high visibility jackets and 
cycling helmets. The Parts, Accessories and Clothing (“PACs”) 
market is estimated to be worth £615m annually and we have a 
lower share of this market than our share of the cycle market. 
This offers Halfords a significant opportunity to grow in this 
higher margin area. A high proportion of PACs sales occur online 
so an important part of our strategy for growth will be to improve 
our range and order fulfilment for these products online. We are 
planning to develop this category to capture an increased share 
of this market. 
We also support our cycle offer through the advice and service of 
our colleagues; c.95% of the cycles we sell we also build and we 
offer a free six-week first service. Our Bike Care Plan that 
provides repairs, free of labour charge, is another opportunity to 
develop a service based revenue stream. 
In the last year we have grown cycling sales by c.10%, and 
gained share in a growing market. This demonstrates the 
strength of the Halfords brand and our cycling offer.
The cycle market is estimated to be currently worth £1.4bn. We 
now plan to take advantage of this opportunity to drive further 
growth in this category through the combination of great service, 
reliable maintenance and repair, the best value bike range in the UK 
and new ranges of PACs. Our ability to deliver our biggest ranges to 
our customers next day is a winning formula within our strategy to 
be the Best Cycle Shop in T own.
The Starting Point for Great Getaways
As well as essential travel, our customers also want to enjoy their 
active leisure time and use their cars to go on trips. Our range of 
products and services is designed to equip people for their 
journey and help them make the most of their time out of doors. 
A great example is our exclusive ranges of Exodus roof boxes. 
These significantly increase the carrying capacity of a car. They 
create extra space for luggage and other holiday essentials and 
leave more room in the vehicle for the family. We also supply the 
roof bars and cycle carriers and have trained colleagues ready to 
fit everything for customers while they wait. 
We stock all the products motorists need to reach their 
destination: tyre pumps, warning triangles and high visibility 
jackets. At our autocentres we can check and service cars 
before they set off on long journeys. 
Halfords’ offer extends beyond the journey. We also stock  
tents and a whole range of camping and outdoor equipment. 
These items provide the basis for the holiday itself. Halfords is 
helping with great value offers, like our 4-person family tent  
pack, which contains a tent, sleeping bags, airbeds and a  
pump for less than £100.
Chief Executive’s Review continued 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
31
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2012.com
It is predicted that this year more families than ever will holiday in 
Britain or look for lower cost ways of spending their vacation 
time. Thousands will come to Halfords as the starting point for 
their great getaway and catering for this demand provides a clear 
avenue for future growth.
In summary, through a focus on our three strategic pillars we 
plan to deliver sustainable revenue growth over the medium 
term. In the year ahead we intend to invest an additional c.£6m 
of Retail operating expenditure to create growth in these 
strategic areas. Of the total, £3.5m will be spent in support of our 
ambitions in fitting, £1.0m to enhance our multi-channel offer to 
complement our range and product development plans and 
£1.5m on training, capability and customer relationship 
management. These drivers will be broadly profit neutral in  
FY13 and will contribute to growth in top line and profitability 
from FY14.
Enablers
To deliver our strategic pillars we are focused on five key areas of 
our business which are central to improving our customer 
proposition and hence the progress of our business.
Portfolio
Our stores and our autocentres are the key ingredient of our 
multi-channel customer proposition. Their location and layout are 
central to how we deliver our ambition and our promise. 
We have 467 retail stores and 260 autocentres trading 
throughout the UK and Ireland. Approximately 90% of our 
customers live within a 20-minute journey of our stores. 
Through our store refresh programme we refurbished and 
reconfigured over 80 stores during the year. The sales uplifts 
achieved at these stores represent a good return on the invested 
capital and ensures a short payback period. Over 100 stores 
across the estate have now been refreshed over the last two 
years.
In London our High Street format stores provide a potential route 
for further expansion in an area where there is a shortage of 
suitable superstore opportunities.
We have had considerable success during the year in our 
negotiations with landlords in reducing occupancy costs. Within 
our store portfolio our lease expiry profile means that we have 
c.130 leases expiring over the next five years, which provide the 
opportunity to accelerate our work on reducing occupancy costs.
The nature of the shopping trip is changing as customers 
combine online shopping, stock checking and research with 
more traditional store visits. At Halfords, our stores must also 
facilitate our fitting and cycle repair services. Stores in the future 
will need to combine all these elements to provide a seamless 
experience. To test ideas that could provide future solutions and 
an enhanced shopping experience for our customers we have 
opened three laboratory stores. These will be used to test 
concepts and, if successful, it may be appropriate to include 
some of these concepts in future store designs. In the meantime 
our store refresh programme is on hold pending the feedback 
from these laboratory stores. 
 
Strategic Pillars
Enablers
We help and inspire
our customers with their
life on the move
Portfolio
Marketing People Operations
Web
Values 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Business Review 32
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Web
Our commitment is to be a true multi-channel retailer, so that we 
seamlessly integrate our web offer with our in-store experience. 
Our development work is aimed to join together all aspects of the 
shopping trip and to leverage within that the growing power and 
use of the web as part of it. Enhancing our online offer and 
further extending our multi-channel presence is an investment 
priority. 
To drive our ambition we have appointed a dedicated Digital 
Director, Clive West, reporting to me. He is responsible for all 
aspects of our online offer from the online site to the delivery 
process for orders.
The launch of the mobile version of our site has been very 
successful. It enables our customers to research and purchase 
online while they are on the move. Mobile traffic and revenues 
experienced significant growth and almost a fifth of all visits and 
over 10% of our online sales are now through these devices. 
The introduction of the Halfords App and offering quick response 
(“QR”) codes at the point of sale are other mobile innovations 
that Halfords has introduced to enhance the shopping 
experience for our customers. Customers can scan barcodes 
and access rich content like videos and product information, or 
get help in finding the right part for their make and model of 
vehicle. We have experienced over 370,000 visits to our App last 
year and over 15,000 QR codes were scanned. 
We have also made considerable progress in enhancing our  
IT infrastructure and improving our on-site experience. We 
continue to develop the site with additional functionality aimed  
at improving our customer journey. We are focused on the entire 
customer journey from accessing the site to order fulfilment.
Our product mix lends itself to a multi-channel offer as customers 
often want further advice, a demonstration or fitting. Online 
purchasing patterns reflect this, with 86% of sales on Halfords.
com reserved and then collected from a store. We recently made 
a further improvement to this service. Customers who buy an 
item online before 6.00 pm from the vast majority of Halfords 
16,000 online product range can now choose to collect it the 
next day from their local store for free, even if that store does not 
normally stock the product. Direct delivery to home represents 
14% of our online sales and we also continue to focus on 
improving this proposition for our customers. We now offer free 
delivery on a wide range of products as well as Saturday delivery. 
The Halfords Autocentres website has provided a significant 
route to grow our Autocentres business. In the fragmented 
garage sector the relaunched website, with improved 
functionality, has provided a point of difference and resonated 
with customers. The revenue derived from online bookings was 
up by c.40%. Online bookings now account for 25% of all 
Autocentres bookings with 7% of bookings coming from the 
Halfords.com Retail site. Further integration of the Retail and 
Autocentres websites is a focus. The Autocentres website has 
also successfully supported our ambition in tyre sales, with online 
tyre sales up 170% in the year.  
Operations
While the sales performance has been challenging, the Group 
has made significant operational progress this year. We have 
focused on enhancing customer service, reducing costs and 
continuing to build a solid platform for future growth. 
Our new Distribution Centre at Coventry, equipped with 
state-of-the-art logistics technology, has operated smoothly and 
is a major contributor to good availability in our stores. One 
innovation has been the commissioning of 24 new double-
decker lorry trailers. These can carry extra product, which helps 
decrease road miles and saves fuel.
To reduce the costs of goods not-for-resale we have 
implemented new processes. Some contracts have been 
renegotiated with specifications and suppliers changed. We have 
also appointed a new Head of Procurement responsible for 
goods not-for-resale buying to continue our focus on driving 
down costs in this area. One innovation is a new process for the 
recovery of the 3,000 tonnes of waste cardboard from our stores 
to our distribution centres, where it is baled and sold for 
recycling.
To fulfil our ambitions in fitting we are actively recruiting and 
training new colleagues. We have also put in place new 
programmes for customer engagement to improve the in-store 
experience and the help we offer people when they visit a 
Halfords store.
Autocentres continued to develop and enhance the technical 
expertise of colleagues. This meant executing the tyre sales 
opportunity whilst developing compelling offers such as 
brakes-4-life. Additional investment in centre capability was 
complemented by trials of extended hours and Sunday 
openings.
Marketing
Our new marketing campaign “that’s helpful, that’s Halfords”  
has helped build awareness of the value we offer through great 
prices, quality and innovative products with the expert service of 
our colleagues. Our Christmas campaign was critically acclaimed 
and developed this theme highlighting the lasting value of 
Halfords’ products like cycles which provide pleasure for years. 
Our summer campaign demonstrates how Halfords has helped 
customers for many years make the most of their holidays. Using 
the strapline, The Best Trips Last a Lifetime, it focuses on 
how customers use our products to make the best of their 
summer holidays.
We also extended our national advertising of Autocentres from 
radio to TV with a series of idents around the motoring 
programmes on the Dave channel. These illustrate the delighted 
response of motorists who have been helped by Halfords 
colleagues.  20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
33
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2012.com
People
Our colleagues, in all areas of our business, are of paramount 
importance to help our customers. Their passion and abilities are 
central to the delivery of our strategic objectives and I am 
extremely proud of their commitment and enthusiasm.
In addition, their expert knowledge, advice and service 
differentiate us from our competition, especially the online pure 
plays, and generate attractive levels of return. In the year we 
have invested in extra training for colleagues through our 
programmes to encourage higher levels of engagement with 
customers. We are also investing in extra training to increase  
the number of colleagues who carry out fitting and cycle  
repair services.
We track our success in customer service through Empathica 
customer surveys and our detailed quarterly customer research; 
these show that increasingly customers recommend our service 
to others.
Values are central to all successful organisations and this year we 
have more clearly defined the central tenets of the way we want 
to work together. We launched these at our first Company-wide 
managers’ conference. The values are:
 
Strategic Pillars
Enablers
We help and inspire
our customers with their
life on the move
Portfolio
Marketing People Operations
Web
Values
In the year ahead we are running an engagement survey for all 
our colleagues which will help us to understand how to support 
and offer the best training possible.
As well as the appointments already mentioned, my Executive 
team has been completed during the year with the promotion of 
Kevin Thomas as Retail Director and the appointment of 
Jonathan Crookall as Group HR Director. 
I would like to thank all our colleagues for their hard work and 
their immense contribution to the progress of our business.
Summary and Outlook
Halfords continues to be highly profitable and strongly cash-
generative, and is maximising its performance in a demanding 
retail environment.
While this is a challenging time, Halfords has delivered significant 
growth in Leisure, including cycles, fitting services and 
Autocentres throughout the past and prior years. This 
demonstrates how we are evolving our business from a 
traditional out-of-town product retailer to a significant service 
provider.
Some other areas of the business like Car Enhancement are 
shrinking while others like DIY Car Maintenance are mature and 
have been affected by the pressures on motorists and the 
reduction in mileages being driven.
The strong performance of Halfords’ growth areas is proof of the 
relevance of our offer in the busy lives of our customers. By 
Helping and Inspiring our Customers with their Life on the 
Move we play a vital role for millions of people. Our three 
strategic pillars — the Friend of the Motorist, the Best Cycle Shop 
in Town, and the Starting Point for Great Getaways — give us an 
attractive route to evolve our business over the longer term. 
We plan to take advantage of these opportunities and to 
accelerate the transition through strategic investments in the year 
ahead. We anticipate that this will contribute to growth in our 
sales and profits in the medium term. 
David Wild 
Chief Executive Officer 
30 May 2012
