  Introduction 06
20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement
This has been a challenging year for the UK consumer and 
Halfords was not immune to this difficult trading environment. 
Our customers have tightened their purse strings in response to 
increased taxes, an uncertain employment landscape and a lack 
of confidence in the face of recessionary conditions for much of 
the year. Our automotive customers were particularly hard hit by 
continued rises in fuel prices to unprecedented levels and by 
further increases in motor insurance which, in turn, was reflected 
by a decrease in miles driven in the UK. There were, however, 
some bright spots and we made good progress in our key 
growth areas, Car Maintenance parts fitting, Autocentres and 
Cycling, where the market continued to grow as more people 
recognised both the pleasure and beneficial health aspects of 
cycling.  
Against this backdrop, Group revenue declined by 0.8% with 
Retail down 2.3%, partly offset by strong growth from 
Autocentres where revenue grew by 12.9%. An adverse mix 
effect and input cost pressures for Retail and an increase in lower 
margin tyre sales by Autocentres resulted in an overall 100 basis 
point decrease in the Group’s gross margin. Our Retail cost base 
was closely managed but upward pressure on occupation, 
staffing and support costs, albeit mitigated by lower warehouse 
and distribution costs, resulted in a 3.6% rise in operating costs, 
whereas those of Autocentres rose in line with revenue growth. 
As a result, Group underlying profit before tax was down 26.6% 
to £92.2m.
A pleasing feature of the year was the Group’s continued robust 
cash flow performance with free cash flow, before dividends and 
capital transactions, of £70.4m being generated. This enabled 
the Board to recommend an unchanged final dividend of 14.0 
pence per share which would amount to 22.0 pence for the year, 
1.53 times covered by earnings per share of 33.7 pence and 1.6 
times by free cash flow. In addition, a share buyback programme 
was initiated in April 2011 with £62.3m being outlaid in the 
period. In total, £106.5m was returned to shareholders in the 
period and, with a Net Debt:EBITDA ratio of 1.1 at 30 March 
2012, the Group’s financial position remains sound.
During the year, management embarked upon a deep and 
wide-ranging review of the business, its strengths, weaknesses, 
opportunities and threats. The Board has been an integral part of 
this process; contributing, challenging and supporting the output. 
The resultant vision for Halfords to “Help and Inspire our 
Customers with their Life on the Move” is underpinned by three 
pillars of the strategy:
 ■ the Friend of the Motorist
 ■ the Best Cycle Shop in Town
 ■ the Starting Point for Great Getaways
The underlying shift in emphasis of the strategy is recognition of 
the changes in customer preferences and the opportunities it 
presents for Halfords. The strategy plays to the strengths of 
Halfords, recognises and addresses the opportunities and 
challenges and underscores the uniqueness of the Group’s range 
of products and services, its heritage and strong brand. 
Importantly, it sets out a clear direction of travel for all of our 
stakeholders. The strategy will seek to  accelerate the transition 
of Halfords from a “traditional retailer to a contemporary provider 
of products and services”. 
Targeted investments in the key enablers of the strategy — our 
Retail store and Autocentre portfolio, IT and operating systems, 
web offerings, marketing and, most importantly, in our people 
— have been and are being mapped out and will commence in 
the year ahead. However, the transition will unfold more fully over 
the years ahead to ensure that we have a business that is fit for 
purpose for many, many years to come.
The backbone of the business and the key to the success of 
Halfords is, and will continue to be, our service ethic and our 
service offerings, backed by the very best product ranges. We 
will be relentless in our pursuit of service excellence and the 
mantras “Helpful” and “Trust”. Without this, our strategy and 
customer proposition will not resonate with our customers. 
Management will strive to ensure that every member of the 
Halfords Group is attuned to this message. I am sure that the 
12,000 colleagues in our Retail and Autocentres businesses and 
Head Office will rise to the challenge. In this regard, the Board 
thanks them for their dedication in this difficult trading year and is 
confident that they will continue to focus on delivery of the very 
best products and services to our customers.
This year, our Chief Executive, David Wild, set out to build a 
management team of contemporary skills and experience that 
would be best suited to face the challenges ahead. He has 
succeeded in doing so and the Board would like to thank David 
and his team for managing a difficult trading environment with 
some skill whilst dedicating much time and effort to crafting the 
strategy and plans for the future. Lastly, I would like to thank my 
Board colleagues for their support and for their passion to help 
Halfords achieve the very best for its shareholders.
“The key to the success of Halfords is, and will 
continue to be, our service ethic and our service 
offerings backed up by the very best product 
ranges .”
Dennis Millard 
Chairman Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
07
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2012.com
20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Read online: halfords.annualreport2012.com/cs
Since the beginning of the year, economic conditions have remained 
difficult and the uncertain and worrying situation in the Eurozone has 
cast a cloud over the UK economy. In addition, the record rains in April 
and early May have dampened the normal early spring spending on 
Leisure products which has affected our business. Nevertheless, we 
believe that our colleagues will be able to meet the inevitable 
challenges in the year ahead and that the execution of our strategy 
means Halfords is in good stead to grow the business in the years 
thereafter.
Dennis Millard  
Chairman 
30 May 2012 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
Business Review 08 20989.04   13-06-2012   Proof 6
09
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012
Online version 
halfords.annualreport2012.com
Introduction Business Review Resources Governance Financials
About Halfords
Market Review 10
Group Strategy 12
Strategic Pillars 14
Shareholder KPIs 16
Retail KPIs 18
Autocentre KPIs 20
People Powering the Next Generation 22
Performance
Chief Executive’s Review 26
Finance Director’s Report 34
Risks and Uncertainties 40
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility Report 44
BUSINESS 
REVIEW
Read online: halfords.annualreport2012.com/br
