 14
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
 
This has been another difficult year for the UK consumer and Halfords 
was also faced with its own particular challenges. Our customers 
continued to have their discretionary incomes squeezed and high 
fuel prices and insurance costs once again resulted in a decrease in 
miles driven by our automotive customers. Whilst reluctant to blame 
the weather, the wet summer and record cold winter were certainly 
not conducive to the pursuit of outdoor activities by our cycling 
and camping customers! Nevertheless, the spirit of the nation was 
uplifted by the joy and the resounding success of the Olympics and 
Paralympics. All of these macro factors had, in their own way, an effect 
on the performance of Halfords and provided us with both challenges 
and opportunities.
Group revenues increased by 1.0% with a decline in Retail sales 
of 0.9% offset by 13.5% growth in Autocentres. In Retail, the Car 
Maintenance category grew strongly, Cycling was down marginally, Car 
Enhancement declined at a much lower rate than in prior years and 
Travel Solutions, which includes our camping products, also declined. 
The growth in sales for Autocentres was due to our investments which 
have increased market share, boosted tyre sales and added 23 new 
centres. Group gross margin was unchanged at 54.8% with a marginal 
rise in Retail and a decrease in Autocentres, due primarily to product 
mix. Total underlying operating costs rose by 6.2% due to investment 
in colleague headcount, recruitment and training, increased occupation 
costs, a rise in marketing spend and investment in new Autocentres. 
Interest costs also rose. As a result, underlying profit before tax 
decreased by 21.9% to £72.0m and basic EPS by 17.8% to 27.7p 
per share. Free cash flow of £71.8m was generated and net debt was 
down £28.6m to £110.6m with net debt to EBITDA at 1.1 times.
In July 2012, the Board felt that a change at the top of the organisation 
was necessary and David Wild, who had been Group Chief Executive 
since August 2008, left the Company. I was asked by the Board to step 
up as Interim Executive Chairman until a new Group Chief Executive 
was in place. In October 2012, Matt Davies joined Halfords as CEO 
and I resumed my non-executive role in November 2012. We are 
delighted with Matt’s appointment. It follows his considerable success 
at Pets at Home where he had been CEO for some eight years. We 
were particularly taken by the exceptional colleague engagement 
and customer service levels he had achieved at Pets at Home. These 
were two areas that had worryingly slipped in Halfords and the extent 
became more evident to me during my executive tenure; it was 
therefore critical that this be urgently addressed.
Following his appointment, Matt was tasked with reviewing the current 
strategy and plans for the business and the organisational capability. 
This has now been completed and the outcome – set out below – is 
fully supported by the Board who, along with Matt’s executive team, 
were an integral part of the review process.
Firstly, the three pillars of the existing strategy were considered to be 
sound but were redefined to the following to inject more passion and a 
clearer purpose:
 ■ Supporting Drivers of Every Car
 ■ Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age
 ■ Equipping Families for their Leisure Time.
Secondly, it was considered that the plans in place for the Autocentres 
business to increase its network by 20 to 30 centres per annum and 
invest in capability were also sound, and that the returns that would be 
generated and the opportunities to continue to take market share were 
attractive.
Chairman’s Statement
Dennis Millard
Chairman 15
Introduction
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Driving attachment sales and return customers with bike care plans
For the Retail business, the review underscored the need to invest in 
our colleagues to enable them to best serve customers and to invest 
in our store, operations and IT infrastructures. The most pressing need 
was to address the root causes of our less than optimum service 
offer and ethic. Crucially, the key to success was to put in place plans 
to deliver top line growth that, in turn, would restore profitability and 
produce attractive and sustainable returns for our shareholders. These 
plans, which have been named Getting Into Gear 2016, are fully laid 
out in the Annual Report and will be implemented over the next three 
years. They are summarised as follows:
 — Service Revolution: introducing a marked step change in the 
quality of our service offer by investing in training, staffing and in-
store capability.
 — The H Factor: reasserting our authority across our key categories 
to excite our customers.
 — Stores Fit to Shop: investing in our store estate to raise standards 
and improve our customer experience.
 — 21st Century Infrastructure: investing in systems and 
infrastructure.
 — Click with the Digital Future: creating a contemporary and 
competitive service-led digital offer.
The specific initiatives underpinning these plans are now in place and 
the key milestones, or KPIs, by which we will measure our progress are 
set out in this report. Crucially, both our annual and long-term incentive 
plans will be similarly aligned. Over the three year period it is envisaged 
that some £100m of Retail Capital Expenditure will be necessary, 
c.£40m more than prior run rates. In addition, revenue investment of 
£7m–£14m will be made in FY14 primarily in our colleague capability; 
however, this will be dependent upon performance and revenue 
generation. This will have the inevitable consequence on earnings and 
cash flows in the next three years but will set up the business for an 
attractive and sustainable future in the years ahead.
We have carefully considered the financial implications of the new 
strategy and concluded that, given the need to maintain a robust 
balance sheet and our desire to rebuild our dividend cover to a more 
sustainable level, our dividend should be rebased. The Board has thus 
recommended a final dividend of 9.1 pence per share, a reduction of 
35.0% on the prior year, resulting in a full-year dividend of 17.1 pence, 
down 22.3%. The intention would be to reset the full year dividend 
for the next three years to around 14 pence per share which would 
enable us to remain within our gearing target of net debt to EBITDA of 
1.5 times and, over the period, converge towards a more sustainable 
dividend cover of 2 times.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our 12,000 
colleagues for their patience and commitment during a difficult year. 
Also, I thank them for the enthusiastic manner in which they have 
embraced the new direction and for their dedication to raising service 
levels for our customers. The new executive team under Matt is 
taking shape well and they are up for the challenges and opportunities 
ahead. Lastly, I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their 
dedication, counsel and support in what has been a very eventful 
year. Paul McClenaghan, who left the Board last month, did so with 
our best wishes.
In conclusion, the new financial year has started in a positive vein 
and encouraging progress is already being made on some of our key 
initiatives. Most notably, however, is the sense of purpose, excitement 
and engagement that is evident throughout the organisation – this 
bodes well for the years ahead.
Dennis Millard
Chairman
23 May 2013
 The three pillars of the 
existing strategy were 
considered to be sound but 
were redefined to inject 
more passion and a clearer 
purpose.  16
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Read online:
halfords.annualreport2013.com/strategy 17
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Strategy
Strategic Pillars 18
Group Strategy 20
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 24
Transforming Halfords 34
Service Revolution 36
The H Factor 38
Stores Fit to Shop 40
21st Century Infrastructure 42
Click with the Digital Future 44
Finance Director’s Report 46
Risks and Uncertainties 52
Corporate Responsibility Report 56
Strategy
