 24
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
 
Introduction
Halfords Retail sales performance in FY13 reflected a demanding 
trading environment. Sales were affected by unseasonal weather in 
the first and last quarters and by a summer of sport in between which 
particularly benefitted cycle sales. In the year under review, Halfords 
Retail delivered three quarters of positive like-for-like (“LfL”) sales 
growth, following a number of consecutive negative LfLs in preceding 
quarters, supported by online Retail revenue growth of 15.9%.
Our Autocentres performance was satisfactory against a backdrop of a 
declining market and particular challenges in the fleet sector.
Throughout the period the business has taken advantage of the 
opportunities presented and we have focused on improving our offer 
through service. Particular progress was made in the Car Maintenance 
category where we have invested in training and extra colleagues to 
carry out our wefit fitting service; this has driven extra sales.
FY13 Review
Summary of Group Results
Sales were £871.3m, up 1.0% and up 0.3% on an LfL basis. Group 
gross margin was flat at 54.8%. Total underlying operating costs rose 
by 6.2% due to the continuing inflationary environment, our strategic 
investments to support our Retail service offer and the continued 
expansion of our Autocentres business. Underlying Group earnings 
before interest, tax and non-recurring items were £78.1m, which 
compares with £97.2m in FY12. Profit before tax and non-recurring 
items was £72.0m and earnings per share before non-recurring items 
were 27.7p, down 21.9% and 17.8% respectively.
Group inventory and capital expenditure continued to be managed 
tightly, with Retail stocks down 9.2% on the prior year. Autocentres 
inventory was £1.3m, flat on the prior year. The cash flow performance 
was robust with free cash flow of £71.8m generated against £70.4m in 
the prior year. Net debt at the year-end was down £28.6m to £110.6m, 
with net debt:EBITDA remaining at a ratio of 1.1:1.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 9.1 pence per share, 
a reduction of 35.0% on the prior year (FY12: 14.0 pence). If approved, 
this will be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders on the register at 
the close of business on 5 July 2013. The proposed full-year dividend 
is 17.1 pence (FY12: 22.0 pence). The 35.0% reduction of the final 
dividend would have the effect of similarly rebasing future dividend pay-
outs. It is anticipated that the FY14 full-year dividend would be reset 
to around 14 pence per share and that the full-year dividend would 
potentially remain around this level as the business approaches nearer 
2x dividend/earnings cover over the medium term. This would reflect 
a more-sustainable level for the business, the requirement to invest as 
set out later and the maintenance of a robust balance sheet.
Retail
Sales for the year were £745.5m, down 0.9% on the prior year and 
down 0.7% on an LfL basis. The sales mix and continued focus on cash 
returns resulted, as expected, in a broadly-flat Retail gross margin.
Cycling
After a disappointing start to the year, it was a particularly strong summer 
for Cycling sales. The enthusiasm surrounding British successes in 
the Tour de France, Olympics and Paralympics helped fuel a stronger 
demand for cycles, cycle products and cycle accessories and we 
capitalised on this with our agile trading stance. The strong demand for 
premium cycles continued throughout the year, particularly our exclusive 
Boardman and Pendleton ranges. We were pleased to add to our ranges 
with the introduction of Pinarello cycles, the brand ridden by Team Sky 
and used by Sir Bradley Wiggins to win the Tour de France.
During the second half overall cycle sales were affected by a poorer 
Christmas for kids and mainstream bikes, which continued into the final 
quarter as the prolonged winter weather delayed the start of the family 
cycling season. Cycling LfL sales were down 0.6% for the year. Online 
Cycling Parts, Accessory and Clothing (“PACs”) sales were up 26.5% in 
the final quarter as we began to introduce new ranges ready for a full-
scale launch of our enhanced PACs proposition in the new financial year.
Car Maintenance
LfL sales of Car Maintenance products and services grew by 5.1%, 
helped by the prolonged period of winter weather. Demand for our 
wefit service continues to build as we invest in this category and more 
customers look to us for expert help with basic Car Maintenance 
solutions. We fitted 35.2% of the bulbs, wiper blades and batteries we 
sold, up 890 basis points on last year. We invested in training, payroll, 
colleague numbers and national marketing to fulfil the demand and 
make more customers aware of our unique offer. The 3Bs parts and 
labour market is estimated to be worth around £950m and we only 
have a c.11% share*. In the year we also leveraged our market-leading 
position with timely promotions like our deals on Castrol oil.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Matt Davies
Group Chief Executive 25
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Strategy
Encouraging engagement with qualified staff
 We now fit 35.2% of the 
bulbs, wiper blades and 
batteries (“3Bs”) we sell, 
up 890 basis points on 
last year. 
Car Enhancement
In Car Enhancement LfL sales decreased by 4.2%. This was a much 
slower rate of decline than in previous periods. Sat Nav sales have been 
a significant drag on the business over the last few years but during the 
second half of the year sales were flat. We also made market-share gains 
in both Sat Nav and Car Audio. Audio sales grew by an encouraging 
2.8% due to good execution and the authority of our range, established 
through our close partnership with the world’s leading technology 
brands. We are closer to the significant medium-term opportunity around 
Digital Radio and further share gains here mean we have now captured 
around three-quarters* of this growing market.
Travel Solutions
There was reduced demand for camping and touring products due to 
the generally poor weather both last summer and this spring. Our Travel 
Solutions category saw an LfL sales decline of 6.8%. One highlight was 
the sale of breathalysers during the summer and again this spring as 
they became a requirement for Continental travel and motorists visited 
Halfords for our exclusive Alcosense range. Child Car Seats remain a 
product range facing intense pricing and competitive pressure and, 
during the year, we continued to manage this category for cash.
Online
Online revenues grew by 15.9% and represented 10.3% of Retail sales 
which compares with 8.9% in the prior year. We continue to focus 
on improving our online experience for customers and we invested 
in website capability; for instance the launch of a new search engine, 
Fred Hopper, that will make it easier for online shoppers to search 
and navigate our site. We also introduced our new 24-hour Reserve 
& Collect service and rebalanced our promotions to focus more on 
product price rather than percentage discounting.
Autocentres
Autocentres sales were £125.8m, up 13.5% overall and represented 
a 7.0% LfL uplift on the prior year. The second-quarter LfL sales 
growth of 12.4% was the strongest since we acquired the business in 
February 2010 and the business has now enjoyed nine consecutive 
quarters of LfL growth.
Growth was driven by our investment in marketing, the development 
of our tyre proposition, our exclusive brakes4life offer and the 
contribution from new centres. The significant increase in lower-margin 
tyre sales resulted in a 221bps decline in gross margin, with margins in 
our non-tyre business benefitting from scale.
We continue to acquire new retail customers whilst retaining a high 
level of existing customers. However, fleet-customer acquisition has 
been less satisfactory with material short-term challenges in this sector. 
Twenty-three new centres were opened in the year bringing our total at 
the end of the year to 283 centres. We will continue to selectively and 
appropriately invest in new centres to significantly grow our network 
over the years ahead, targeting a further 20 to 30 new openings in 
FY14.
Halfords Business Review
Introduction
The fall in Group profitability over recent years illustrates the need 
for sustainable and profitable revenue growth over the medium and 
long-term to offset ongoing cost inflation. We must strengthen our 
proposition and customer offer in an environment where shopping 
patterns are changing and competition is increasing. As a result 
the Board asked me to carry out a review of the business with the 
management team and bring forward a plan to reposition Halfords to 
meet the challenges now and that lie ahead.
My conclusion is that Halfords is a good business with a clear strategic 
framework in place. However, there is some repositioning necessary to 
move Halfords from being good to being great; we must act now. Our 
single most important objective is to drive profitable sales growth and 
to do this through leveraging our expertise.
Following our review we have launched Getting Into Gear 2016, 
a clear programme of operational plans designed to significantly 
improve our Retail customer experience. This programme will focus 
on supporting our colleagues to deliver consistent friendly expertise, 
improve our store environment, strengthen the authority of our offer 
and build our infrastructure and digital capabilities. The investment 
required is anticipated to reduce short-term Retail profitability but is 
designed to deliver sustainable revenue and profit growth together with 
sustainable shareholder value.
* (Source: management estimates) 26
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Three-Pillared Strategy
Last year Halfords launched a new strategy that focused on three 
core pillars:
 ■ Friend of the Motorist
 ■ Best Cycle Shop in Town
 ■ Starting Point for Great Getaways
We believe this is the right strategic framework and the new 
programme of activity we are initiating is designed to support and 
drive these three pillars which we have redefined slightly to introduce a 
clearer purpose and more passion.
Our mission is to Help and Inspire Customers with their Life on the 
Move. The existing pillars have evolved to become:
 ■ Supporting Drivers of Every Car
 ■ Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age
 ■ Equipping Families for their Leisure Time
Our two critical pillars are Auto and Cycling with the third pillar giving 
us the flexibility to extend our range, introduce innovative products and 
leverage space. Ninety percent of our focus needs to be on Auto and 
Cycling as these markets are significant and, with good execution, we 
can grow our share as well as the overall market.
Halfords Autocentres
A central part of our strategy of Supporting Drivers of Every Car is our 
newest business, Halfords Autocentres.
Halfords is a trusted brand in the automotive sector, so the move into 
garage servicing was a natural extension of the Halfords business 
model. We now offer customers end-to-end solutions, from car parts 
to the fitting of bulbs, blades and batteries in our Retail stores and full 
servicing, MOTs and repairs at our Autocentres.
Our review concluded that our strategy for Autocentres is sound and 
the Autocentres business provides a significant growth opportunity 
for the Group. However, we also concluded that the short-term profit 
expectations discussed at the time of acquisition were overly optimistic. 
These short-term expectations didn’t fully consider the implications of 
a rapid expansion of the chain through new-centre openings, nor the 
impact of the auto-aftercare market environment which has been more 
difficult than expected in the period since acquisition. The economic 
down turn has particularly hit motorists through escalating fuel and 
insurance costs. In response motorists have reduced mileage and cut 
back on other costs where possible – including car servicing. As a 
result we estimate the overall market has contracted by around 5% in 
the last three years*.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
  27
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Strategy
Despite this Halfords has grown its Autocentre retail LfL sales by 4.3% 
in the same period, over 9% better than the market. This was achieved 
through better use of existing Autocentres capacity. We have recruited 
thousands of new customers by rebranding the estate and nationally 
advertising. We also offer customers a wider range of products like 
tyres and our innovative brakes4life offer.
The Auto-Aftercare market provides Halfords with an opportunity for 
further growth. It is estimated to be worth around £9bn* and Halfords 
only has a small share – our 283 centres represent less than 2% of 
the market.
The market is also highly fragmented and capacity is declining. There 
are some 22,000 garage sites and 1–2% leave the market each year. 
The complexities of new cars and the investments required make it 
more difficult for small operators to compete. By contrast Halfords has 
increased Autocentre chain numbers by around 27% since acquisition 
and invested heavily to support growth.
Halfords is well placed to take market share. We are a recognised 
strong brand in Auto-Aftercare which is a key advantage – as trust 
is one of the main factors affecting motorists’ choice of garages. So 
our proposition of dealership quality work at more affordable prices, 
supported by a high level of customer service is a compelling one. We 
can also leverage national advertising and cross-sell between Retail 
and Autocentre customers.
The short-term issue for the business is the drag created by our 
new-centre opening programme. Our core centres are performing 
well and, as we expand, our buying leverage creates value. However, 
the contribution from new centres is outweighed by the investments 
needed for the opening programme. It is predominantly these new-
centre investments that are holding back overall short-term profitability 
together with investments in the infrastructure to support a business 
growing at the pace of Autocentres.
Having reviewed the business, we believe that Autocentres is a great 
growth opportunity for us. We have a clear strategy for the future 
being executed by the Autocentres management team and we can 
build a business of significant scale. Operationally we will increase 
what we sell to our existing customers by focusing services on the 
“Big4”: Service, MOT, Repair and Tyres. We will support these sales 
through innovations like Sunday openings, new product packages and 
refreshing our website to make booking a service or selecting a tyre 
even easier.
Through proven marketing routes we will drive more footfall to our 
Autocentres. We will grow our share of the fleet market by developing 
our presence with existing customers and attracting and developing 
new customers.
Our new-centre opening programme will continue with 20–30 new 
centres planned per annum requiring a capital investment of around 
£6m per annum. We also anticipate that the market will return to 
growth as maintenance and repairs return to more normalised levels. 
Over the medium-term we expect to see profitability build as critical 
mass is reached in the business.
 
* (Source: management estimates using data from Halfords Autocentres, SMMT, DFT and 
Castrol Trend Tracker) 28
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Halfords Retail
Our review of Halfords Retail addresses the significant challenges we 
face and sets out a programme of activity to reposition the business; to 
move us from good to great as we prepare Halfords for the future and 
put it on a path to consistently drive profitable top-line growth.
Halfords has a very strong place in UK retail. We have an excellent 
brand that shoppers in Britain have grown up with and there’s no doubt 
in a customer’s mind what Halfords stands for and what we sell. We 
are the nation’s leading cycle retailer, selling over 1m cycles a year 
and we are the go-to destination for motorists. So our products and 
services are relevant for today’s customers and key parts of our offer, 
especially those which are service related, are unique to Halfords.
The categories in which Halfords operates provide good opportunities 
for growth. For instance, the Cycle market is buoyant and the 
popularity of Cycling is growing. The market for Cycles is worth around 
£700m* and Halfords has a c.20–25% share*. The market for PACs 
is a similar size; we only have c.15% share in this market. Last year 
the entire Cycling market grew by 8.5% and over the next five years 
is anticipated will grow by around 23%**. In the Cycle Repair market, 
worth c.£100m*, we estimate having only a c.8% share. Our focus in 
FY13 on Cycle Repair produced sales growth of 25.3% and we are 
implementing a strategy for further growth in this category in FY14.
Halfords also has good potential for growth in Retail Car Maintenance. 
The 3Bs parts and labour market is estimated to be worth around 
£950m* and we only have a c.11% market share. Wefit is a unique 
offer and we have invested in colleagues, training, advertising and held 
wefit weekends to raise awareness. The 50.5% growth this year in the 
number of 3B fitting jobs and the associated growth of 10.9% in parts 
sales illustrate how much customers welcome this service and what an 
area of ongoing opportunity it is.
Halfords is in a strong position to make the best of these market 
opportunities if we can present the right offer to customers. We 
have great expertise and heritage and a nationwide store network. 
Meanwhile our global sourcing infrastructure can supply excellent 
products from the world’s leading manufacturers at least-cost to our 
customers – for instance our exclusive range of Boardman cycles, 
which combine industry-leading designs with prices that are around 
15% lower than a cycle of comparable specification.
Our sales are supported by a core of colleagues who are 
knowledgeable experts. On our day the service we provide is hard to 
beat. However, our review shows that service levels are inconsistent 
and this and other aspects of the Halfords experience frustrate 
customers; many are now choosing to shop elsewhere.
One measure of this is the Halfords Net Promoter Score, which 
assesses the propensity of customers to recommend our services to 
others. The Halfords score was, until very recently, close to that of a 
value retailer; this is a long way adrift from the score of a specialist, 
where we ought to be.
Meanwhile the competition is escalating in our core categories, such 
as from online Cycling specialists. As a result our profitability is being 
eroded. In the last 13 quarters, 10 have seen Retail LfL sales declines. 
Our revenues have gone from c.£812m in FY10 to c.£746m in FY13.
Halfords must generate profitable revenue growth over the medium and 
long-term; the key action that will drive sales is better customer service. 
We have thousands of amazing people but we haven’t supported them 
to do the job they aspire to. This was evident in the 12,000 comments 
we received in last year’s Colleague Engagement Survey which was 
packed with suggestions on how to support colleagues in their roles 
and help them help customers.
Our conclusion is that we must focus on customer service and deliver 
a great customer experience. To do this we have to improve colleague 
engagement, develop their friendly expertise consistently across our 
estate and use it to drive sales. Through our colleagues’ product 
knowledge and our range authority we can re-build our credentials as 
a specialist retailer. We must also improve our stock availability, retail 
disciplines, our store environment and overall customer experience. 
All these improvements must be made as we position ourselves for a 
digital future.
Our focus is to create a business with belief in the quality of its 
products and services and where friendly expertise is at its core.
To deliver this the Getting Into Gear 2016 programme has been 
launched and is specifically designed to drive profitable and sustainable 
top-line growth. Whilst a lot of work is already underway the complete 
programme will take around three years to deliver.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
 
 Service is at the heart 
of our proposition as we 
estimate two thirds of our 
products require some level 
of assistance. 
* (Source: management estimates)
** (Source: Mintel 2013) 29
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Strategy
 
Getting Into Gear 2016
Getting Into Gear 2016 has the following key elements for our Retail 
business:
1. Service Revolution – introducing a step change in customer 
service across Halfords stores.
2. The H Factor – reasserting our proposition authority to Support 
Drivers of Every Car, Inspire Cyclists of Every Age and Equip 
Families for their Leisure Time.
3. Stores Fit to Shop – investing to raise the Halfords store estate to 
a standard that is acceptable and operable.
4. 21st Century Infrastructure – systems and infrastructure to 
support service and sales.
5. Click with the Digital Future – creating a service-led digital 
proposition.
1. Service Revolution
Service is Halfords’ key area of focus. Service is at the heart of our 
proposition as we estimate around two-thirds of our Retail products 
require some level of assistance. Increasingly we are making a merit of 
this and service is becoming a product in its own right.
The level of service we aspire to is something that supermarkets will 
never be able to deliver. It also gives us a competitive advantage 
over the online, pure-play retailers who have no stores or colleagues 
on the ground to support their sales. But we have to improve to deliver 
the promise.
Friendly, expertise-based service is fundamental to profitable and 
sustainable sales growth. When customers have a better experience 
at Halfords they will spend more with us and recommend us to their 
friends. The Service Revolution will ensure customers are served by 
colleagues who are enthusiastic about their role at Halfords and the 
products and services we offer.
Unfortunately, we have let other pressures and processes get in 
the way of service and our focus on recruitment, development and 
retention has not been what it should be; consequently colleague 
turnover is very high.
Our new programme makes our people a focus of our KPIs and our 
store-incentives programme will now be linked to service as well as 
sales. We are changing the way we recruit and develop, revising rotas 
and scheduling and amending contracted hours to make sure we 
always have colleagues available to serve customers.
We are opening new Halfords Academies to provide the training 
that colleagues need; we are also launching 3-Gears, a qualification 
programme that trains and rewards colleagues for gaining expertise.
Gear 1
Gear 1 applies to all colleagues and is completed over their first three-
month period with Halfords. We use structured e-learning modules 
that cover retail skills, product knowledge and customer service. The 
outcome is that all store colleagues will be qualified to serve customers.
Gear 2
Gear 2 involves a nine-month training programme which leads to an 
expert level of product knowledge, with a specialism in either Auto & 
Leisure or Cycling. Tuition is both through e-learning and face-to-face 
training programmes. There are regular refresher courses for Gear 2 
colleagues and a pay award for those who attain this level.
Gear 3
Gear 3 colleagues are our Gurus. They are product experts who are 
qualified to train others. They keep their skills and knowledge current 
and market leading - through workshops, attending product and trade 
shows and by linking with and visiting suppliers. Our Gurus also receive 
leadership development and a pay award. We anticipate having two 
Gurus per store.
The 3-Gears programme profoundly changes our expectations of our 
colleagues and sends a clear message on the focus of their role and 
the importance we place on helping them succeed.
This particular investment is one of the most important we will make 
as we commit a total of £7m Retail operating-cost investment in FY14 
across the Service Revolution and the pay review. A further £7m of 
operating cost will be invested in Retail colleagues this year across  30
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Growing success with extended range of Pendleton branded bikes
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Cycle Repair, Fitting and incentives, depending on volumes and 
performance.
To give customers better service we are also working on our basic retail 
disciplines. We have not been delivering to a high enough standard on 
many of these; that is now changing.
There is a lot of work underway to improve our retail disciplines. For 
instance we are removing unnecessary task from colleagues so they 
can focus more time on customers. Store-friendly deliveries will take 
place out of hours and won’t interfere with service. Deliveries will also 
be organised in a way that takes less time to check in and unload. 
Finally we are moving to pick-friendly warehouses so colleagues can 
easily find and replenish stock.
We also know that availability has been a key area where our service 
has disappointed customers. To improve we have introduced efficient 
hand-held scanners in each store that support us counting stock and 
maintaining the overall integrity of our stock file.
The business is currently holding an historic low of stock as a result of 
some improved processes and old stock clear-outs; however, in some 
areas this has impacted store availability and overall trading capability. 
During FY14 we anticipate investing an incremental £15m–20m in 
Retail stock. Part of this is natural rebuild but the majority will support 
improved in-store availability and our ambitions in PACs.
2. The H Factor
Reasserting our proposition authority is a priority we are labelling the 
H Factor.
Halfords has some award-winning products in many areas of the 
business but our analysis concludes we need to do even better 
for our customers. This means better product development and 
design, stronger value and better space allocation to support growth 
opportunities in new or existing ranges.
By the end of the summer we plan to have rebalanced c.100 stores, 
moving child seats downstairs in stores with mezzanine floors, 
releasing space to cycling, better segmenting our Cycle offer and 
reallocating space away from the Car Enhancement category.
Our research also demonstrates the need to focus on our core areas 
and to rebuild our credentials as a specialist retailer across the Auto 
and Cycling ranges. We believe more authority is a route to competitive 
advantage and that specialism is something we should celebrate.
Innovation is key and we will work harder to delight our customers and 
colleagues. We plan more special buys and to use our third pillar to 
trade against. For instance we have just bought 1,000 inflatable kayaks 
that we will retail at £99.99 as an exciting addition for family holiday 
adventures this summer.
Our initiatives within our motoring pillar include a new partnership with 
battery supplier, Yuasa, to introduce electronic diagnostic terminals into 
every store. This allows us to reset a car’s electronic system after work 
on the battery of a modern stop/start car, something no other retailer is 
doing on such a large scale.
The government is expected to commit to a digital radio switch-over 
later this year. We are preparing for this opportunity with new audio 
ranges built through excellent relations with the world’s leading radio 
manufacturers.
To Inspire Cyclists of Every Age we are planning to make this The Year 
of the Cycle at Halfords, building on the momentum created around 
the Olympics last year. We have a series of range re-launches planned, 
including our exclusive Voodoo and Boardman ranges. We are adding 
several new models to the successful Pendleton range and later in the 
year we are re-launching a new range of Apollo bikes. We have also 
just been appointed by Sky as their technical partner for Sky Rides 
across the country. This will help promote our Cycle Repair offer to the 
150,000 participating cyclists alongside the Sky brand.
Meanwhile the launch of 15,000 PACs lines is going live this month and 
we are advertising our Cycle Repair offer on the radio and in the press.
To Equip Families for their Leisure Time we have just launched our 
new camping range, incorporating Vango for the first time, a brand 
synonymous with camping, as well as a new range of camping 
accessories.
This momentum will continue, with greater innovation to create more 
excitement for our customers.
 Halfords has some award 
winning products in many 
areas . . . better product 
development and design, 
stronger value.  31
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Strategy
3. Stores Fit to Shop
We have reviewed our store estate and concluded there is no good 
reason to reduce our store numbers significantly, as c.99% of our 466 
stores generate a cash profit.
Our focus on driving profitable sales growth will keep the number of 
loss-making stores to a minimum. Over the next three years we will 
resize where we get the opportunity and will close a few stores as part 
of business as usual. We plan to make the space we occupy work 
harder and utilise our estate to support our digital ambitions. Nearly 
90% of online transactions are already picked up in-store; once in 
store, we have the advantage of offering extra service.
We do need more stores in Greater London where we are currently 
under-represented. Over the coming years we will focus on achieving a 
higher level of store-penetration inside the M25.
We intend to maximise lease flexibility so we can manage our estate 
efficiently from a trading perspective. This involves securing more 
break clauses on lease renewals with our landlords and leveraging our 
position to mitigate rent-increase pressures.
In summary we don’t anticipate any significant change in overall store 
numbers.
In terms of the look and feel of our stores there’s a lot of work to 
do. Much of our estate is no longer at an acceptable standard of 
presentation and significantly lags behind our customers’ expectations, 
especially cyclists, where a fresh and modern store environment is 
so important.
Last year we began to design a store format for the future with a trial 
of a number of so-called ‘laboratory stores’. We have reviewed the 
progress of these stores throughout the year. There are some very 
positive learnings but overall we don’t believe the design is right for 
roll-out. We have initiated a project to define a format that combines 
a more coherent customer journey, a focus on one centralised desk 
to support sales and service, introduces more live displays, brings our 
Cycle Repair and wefit offer to the fore and supports us to trade the 
overall store environment harder.
Work is well underway and we expect to have three stores up and 
running in the new format (York, Coventry and Evesham) by the end 
of the summer; we anticipate c.10–15 stores in the new format by the 
end of FY14.
Over the next three years we expect to fully refurbish c.150 stores and 
modernise all our cycling departments. This will require an investment 
of c.£50m of capital expenditure.
4. 21st Century Infrastructure
The business has successfully completed the reorganisation of our 
distribution network around a central distribution centre in Coventry 
and a specialised cycle centre in Redditch. We are now focusing our 
supply-chain work on supporting our service in-store, consistent 
stock availability and digital ambitions. We have started a trial of 
air-lock deliveries where stock is delivered overnight, to be worked on 
before the store opens in the morning so that it doesn’t detract 
from colleagues serving customers and doesn’t incur the costs of a 
night shift.
We are also reviewing our multichannel infrastructure as well as the 
operations of our fleet. Like many other retailers, the Halfords IT system 
has much room for improvement. Our systems have been modified to 
reflect increasing demands but are no longer suitable for our current 
or future needs. In the short-term, we have a number of ‘must do’ 
core projects to complete, including a data-centre relocation, a SAP 
upgrade and a new store voice and data network. We are investing in 
our IT infrastructure and have recently recruited an IT Director to lead 
this work.
Together with our digital plans we will invest c.£38m of capital 
expenditure over the next three years in our IT and Digital plans.
5. Click with the Digital Future
Building our digital proposition is a key route to driving future top-line 
growth and maintaining our ongoing relevance.
Our ambition is to create a service-led digital proposition. Of all retailers 
Halfords has the opportunity to be truly multichannel – combining 
the best of the web with friendly expertise in-store. Our digital review, 
in conjunction with an external consultancy, shows that our current 
multichannel proposition doesn’t provide a satisfactory customer 
experience. We are therefore putting in place a schedule of work that 
centres on a new website aligned around our three strategic pillars so 
that customers can shop in dedicated product zones. The site will be 
optimised for tablets and mobile devices, as these currently account 
for around 24% of online Retail sales; usage is expected to double over 
the next few years. We will also develop community features, live chats, 
integrated dynamic content, improved customer account management 
and help pages.
We are working to improve our online fulfilment, especially on Reserve 
& Collect, stock availability, our returns capabilities and staff training 
to improve service levels in-store. Our recent focus on stock in the 
second half of the year has already resulted in improvements in our 
Reserve & Collect net promoter scores.
Investment
Through our review we believe we now have the right key priorities and 
have detailed and clear action plans in place.
We have the opportunity to be a specialist retailer with real service and 
product authority in core categories. Our ranges will be more innovative 
and will be designed to excite and delight customers. Our stores will 
be more inspirational environments where customers want to shop 
and where they will be greeted by knowledgeable colleagues who offer 
friendly expertise.
Under Getting Into Gear 2016 we will be investing around £100m 
in Retail capital expenditure over three years which is an incremental 
£40m against previous run-rate guidance. Around £50m of the 
investment will be targeted directly at stores.
We also intend to invest around £21m in Retail operating costs in FY14 
over and above our FY13 expenditure, of which c.£11m is volume and 
performance dependent. Key elements of this will be to support the 
Service Revolution and to support an uplift in LfL sales. 32
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Milestones
We have set operational milestones for both internal and external use. These are not financial metrics but sustainable profitability will flow from the 
delivery of these milestones. The following are some of the milestones that will support our target of £1bn of Group revenues in FY16:
Milestones: Colleagues
FY14 FY15 FY16
3-Gears All qualifying colleagues through Gear 1
✔
50% colleagues through Gear 2
✔
80% colleagues through Gear 2
✔
Two Gear 3 colleagues per store
✔
Reduce % of colleagues 
leaving within 3 months
<12.5%
✔
<10%
✔
Colleague Engagement 
(Group)
>85%
✔
Milestones: Operational
FY14 FY15 FY16
Autocentres opened 20–30 20–30 20–30
Launch PACs
✔
Annual PACs sales growth 20% 20%
Cycle Repair sales growth 25% 25% 25%  
Cycle departments brought up to date 100 180 180 
Full store refits 10–15 c.60 c.75
Launch new Retail website
✔
Mobile & tablet optimised site launched
✔
Milestones: Customers
FY14 FY15 FY16
Net Promoter Score >60%
✔
>65%
✔
>70%
✔
Stores working stock outside 
peak trading hours
25%
✔
Majority of stores
✔
Current Activity
Many of our strategic projects that will reposition Halfords Retail are already underway.
The results of this year’s Colleague Engagement Survey shows that we have made significant progress from last year’s results – taking our Group 
colleague engagement score from 64% to 77%.
We are already seeing a step change in retail standards across our business.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 33
22357-04  11/06/2013 FRONT Proof 11
Halfords Group plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
online version
www.halfords.annualreport2013.com
Strategy
Halfords engaging the next generation of cyclists through our Kids Holiday Bike Clubs
The new management team is taking shape. Rob Swyer was 
appointed as Retail Director, David Durie as Marketing Director, 
Anna Barsby as IT Director and, most recently, Emma Fox as 
Commercial Director.
The 3-Gears programme was launched to our store managers at our 
recent spring conference and the first training has taken place. Our 
new recruitment website is already in operation and our new store 
format plan is taking shape.
We have appointed a new advertising agency, Mother; they are 
currently working on our summer campaign.
We have begun trialling out-of-hours delivery to stores.
Thousands of new PACs lines are being launched online this month, 
which is the culmination of a long period of planning and preparation.
We have also started to improve our credentials within the communities 
in which we operate. We have run a series of Kids Bikes Workshops 
over the Easter period, teaching thousands of kids basic bike 
maintenance skills and hopefully enthusing the next generation of 
cyclists and Halfords customers.
Conclusion
Our review concludes that Halfords fulfils an important role for its 
customers. Their busy lives and leisure time rely on the products and 
services that we provide. We have a huge competitive advantage if we 
can deliver on our promise of friendly expert service and inspire and 
excite more people to shop with us.
The plans we are putting in place are essential to reposition Halfords 
to meet the challenges ahead. We are targeting delivering profitable 
revenue growth over the medium and long-term.
There is a lot of activity now underway at Halfords to execute this 
programme. At this stage we anticipate that profits in FY14 may reduce 
as we invest. It is anticipated that Group EBITDA may not exceed 
current levels until FY16.
The Board is acutely aware of the importance of Halfords’ dividend to 
our shareholders. However, our need to invest whilst maintaining both 
an appropriate level of earnings cover and a robust balance sheet has 
led the Board to recommend a rebasing of the dividend. Taking this 
action will ensure Halfords has a robust foundation on which to build 
and to maximise longer-term shareholder returns.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our colleagues for 
their immense contribution and commitment to the progress of our 
business and the implementation of our plan to reposition Halfords.
Matt Davies
Group Chief Executive
23 May 2013
