 23157.04 Proof 7  10-06-2014
strate GiC r eport > strate Gy
CHief exe Cuti Ve’s int rodu Cti on
halfords Retail delivered a strong 
performance in the year as the 
business repositions to offer a 
significantly-enhanced customer 
experience. t he work undertaken 
in areas such as stock availability, 
product ranges and marketing was 
accompanied by a material uplift in 
investment.
The Retail categories are in better shape and the 
Retail management team has been strengthened 
by several key appointments. Getting into Gear 
has got off to a busy start and the early signs are 
encouraging; there will be much work to do over 
the coming years. New leadership of Autocentres is 
aligned with the Group’s service-based priorities so 
that, in the fullness of time, Halfords will offer an even 
better end-to-end customer experience. 
suMMary of Group r esul ts  
Halfords Retail produced a strong sales performance 
with like-for-like (“LFL”) revenue growth of 7.6% and 
online growth of 17.7% reflecting a number of factors 
including improved stock availability, colleague 
engagement, stronger product ranges and a more-
effective marketing approach. Average weather 
conditions were also more favourable for Cycling 
during the year. Despite improvements in the second 
half that delivered 2.0% LFL sales growth, the 
Autocentres performance did not reflect its market-
share potential over the full year, with FY14 revenues 
increasing by 8.6%, accompanied by flat LFL sales; 
new leadership of Autocentres was appointed at the 
end of the year. 
Sales of £939.7m were up 7.9% year-on-year and 
up 6.5% on a LFL basis. Group gross margin fell by 
110 basis points to 53.7%. Total operating costs rose 
by 6.9% primarily as a result of the increase in store-
colleague investment and incentives. Investment in the 
expansion of our Autocentres business continued as 
the business added 20 centres (net). Group earnings 
before finance costs, tax and non-recurring items 
(“EBIT”) were £77.8m, which compares with £78.1m 
in the prior year. 
Earnings before non-recurring items, finance costs, 
depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) were down 
2.3% to £101.1m. Profit before tax and non-recurring 
items was £72.8m and earnings per share before 
non-recurring items were 28.8p, up 1.1% and 4.0% 
respectively.  
Group inventory and capital expenditure continued 
to be managed tightly, although the planned levels of 
additional Retail stock to improve on-shelf availability 
led to a 12.8% increase in Group inventories on the 
prior period; Autocentres inventory was up £0.1m on 
the prior year. Against the backdrop of a significant 
uplift in investment and a one-off tax settlement of 
£21.0m, the cashflow performance was robust with 
free cashflow of £39.5m generated against £71.8m 
in the prior year. Net debt at the end of the year was 
down £11.0m at £99.6m, with a non-lease-adjusted 
12-month net debt: EBITDA ratio of 1.0:1 versus 
1.1:1 in the prior period.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 
9.1 pence per share (FY13: 9.1 pence), taking 
the full-year dividend to 14.3 pence per share. If 
approved, the final dividend will be paid on 1 August 
2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 4 July 2014. In the light of the guidance 
given twelve months ago, the Board will now look to 
maintain a c.2× dividend cover over the medium 
tH e CyCl inG 
Cat eGor y Was t He 
st andout perfor Mer 
t hRou Gho ut the yea R, 
with l fl Gro Wt H of 
19.4% Refl ectin G 
fu Rth eR maRKet -sha Re 
Gains.
Gettin G i n to Gear i n te Gr ated a n nual r e port for the Year ended 28 March 2014
16
Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.indd   16 12/06/2014   14:21:10 23157.04 Proof 7  10-06-2014
term, growing full-year dividends broadly in line with 
earnings per share. Given the operating cash flow 
profile of the business the Board also now anticipates 
the ratio of future interim and final dividend payments 
to move toward 30:70.
operational r eVieW: r etail
Sales were £803.1m, up 7.7% on the previous year 
and 7.6% on an LFL basis. 
In FY14 Cycling was the largest Retail category by 
sales and was the standout performer throughout 
the year. LFL growth of 19.4% reflected improved 
execution, a successful Christmas for children’s bikes, 
more-conducive weather conditions and sustained 
interest in Cycling as a leisure activity. The cycle offer 
was enhanced during the year, with refreshes of the 
Apollo and Boardman ranges particularly engaging 
customers. Representing over one third of premium-
cycle sales, Cycle-To-Work revenues grew by 14.8%. 
Halfords also implemented a major acceleration of 
its presence in the Cycling Parts, Accessories and 
Clothing market (”PACs”). This activity was combined 
with the appointment of additional Cycling capability, 
including the creation of a Head of PACs role and, with 
a more-effective marketing approach, every Cycling 
sub-category grew, including 15.8% growth in PACs, 
28.6% growth in Cycle Repair and 29.9% growth in 
Premium Bike sales.
LFL sales of Car Maintenance products and services 
grew by 4.9%. Sales in the second half were 
hampered by mild winter conditions versus a cold 
and snowy prior year. However the sale and fitting of 
bulbs, blades and batteries (“3Bs”) again represented 
the largest single element of the category and 
growing demand emanated from the building of 
awareness of the wefit service, this year via the TV 
and radio ‘Cheaper than a Favour’ campaign. 
Car Enhancement LFL revenues decreased by 0.1%. 
Representing nearly a quarter of category sales, Car 
Cleaning revenues grew by 13.7%, boosted by the 
re-merchandising of the range to emphasise the 
strength of Halfords’ branded offer. Key price points 
were also targeted to improve value perception. Sat 
Nav sales, down 8.1% in the year, continued to be 
impacted by the effects of a structurally-declining 
market, whilst Audio sales grew 1.1%.
Travel Solutions LFL revenues increased by 2.1%, 
with additional clearance and more-compelling 
offers driving improved sales of camping and travel-
equipment products. 
Online Retail revenues grew by 17.7% and 
represented 11.3% of total Retail sales (FY13: 
10.3%). The growth was driven by the first phase of 
Halfords.com’s relaunch in November 2013, leading 
to substantially-increased conversion rates. Whilst 
over half of online Retail sales were represented by 
the Cycling category, a consistent 88% of online 
orders were collected in store during the period.  
In the year total in-store service income included 
within all of the above categories increased by 17.4% 
to £24.3m, with the majority of revenues flowing from 
3Bs fitting and Cycle Repair.
operational r eVieW: auto Cent res
Total Autocentres revenues were up 8.6% and, on a 
LFL basis, down 0.1%. Despite improvements in the 
second half, this performance reflected operational 
and market challenges the business faced. 23 new 
Autocentres were opened and three were closed 
in the year, taking the total number of Autocentre 
locations to 303. Halfords is committed to the 
continued investment in the Autocentres business to 
secure medium-term growth, though the business 
plans to refocus the centre-opening programme on 
fewer and larger new centres. Halfords will continue to 
close sub-optimal centres as a matter of course.
operational r eVieW suMMar y
The Halfords Retail performance was strong, 
driven by self-help actions and, although weather 
conditions were favourable for the Cycling category, 
they were adverse for Car Maintenance. The results 
illustrate how Halfords is beginning to build both 
its proposition and a significantly-enhanced Retail 
customer experience. With Autocentres focusing 
on the enhancement of its service proposition, 
underpinned by further investment, the business will 
deliver a more consistent and engaging experience 
for its Autocentre customers.
Halfords Business r eVieW
Halfords’ mission is to Help and Inspire our 
Customers with their Life on the Move within the 
following categories: Supporting Drivers of Every 
Car, Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age and Equipping 
Families for their Leisure Time.
Equipping Families for their Leisure Time gives the 
flexibility to extend the range, introduce innovative 
products and leverage space. However the vast 
majority of management’s focus is currently on Auto 
and Cycling as these markets are significant and, 
with strong execution, management anticipates 
sustainable opportunities for growth.  
The Retail strategy, Getting into Gear, is based on 
the following five elements designed to significantly 
enhance the customer experience:
1. Service Revolution — introducing a step change 
in customer service across Halfords stores
2. The ‘H’ Factor — reasserting our proposition 
authority to Support Drivers of Every Car, Inspire 
Cyclists of Every Age and Equip Families for Their 
Leisure Time
3. Stores Fit to Shop — investing to raise the 
Halfords store estate to a standard the business 
is proud of   
4. 21
st
 Century Infrastructure — systems and 
infrastructure to support service and sales
5. Click with the Digital Future — creating a  
service-led digital proposition
t he Results  
illust Rate how 
hal fo Rds i s BeGinnin G 
to Build Bot h its 
PRoPos ition and 
a si Gnif iCantly-
enHan Ced r etail 
Custo Mer e xperien Ce.
halfords.annualreport2014.com s to ck c o de: hfd
h a lfords Group plc a n nual r e port and accounts  2014
s trate Gic r eport s trate Gy s trate Gic r eport o verview s trate Gic r eport p erformance s trate Gic r eport risk Governance f inancials s hareholder i nformation 17
Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.indd   17 12/06/2014   14:21:10 23157.04 Proof 7  10-06-2014
strate GiC r eport > strate Gy
CHief exe Cuti Ve’s intro duCt ion Continued
ser ViCe r eVol ution
Highlights include a new recruitment process that 
involves centralised online application, telephone 
screening, interviews in store with role play and an 
in-store audition before an appointment is made. 
Since launch nearly 55,000 applicants were screened 
for around 1,000 vacancies. This new approach 
significantly raised the quality of new colleagues. 
The 3-Gears training programme was launched with 
virtually all eligible colleagues having completed Gear 1 
by the end of the year. A number of colleagues began 
Gear 2 before the end of the year. 50% of colleagues 
are anticipated to complete Gear 2 by March 2015. 
Two colleagues per store will pass the Gear 3 guru 
level by the end of FY16. 
Colleague engagement is central to the Getting Into 
Gear strategy, so it was particularly encouraging to see 
an increase in the latest Group colleague engagement 
survey score to 80% (FY13 77%). The result was 
underpinned by the good news that Halfords was 
recently voted as one of the 25 Best Big Companies 
to Work For in the UK (see The Sunday Times Best 
Companies To Work For 2014). These scores were 
reflected in a rise in the Retail net promoter score to 
72% from a run rate of around 55% in the prior year.
tH e ‘H’ f aCto r
A revitalisation of the Retail product range was 
enhanced by the appointment of a new Commercial 
Director in September 2013. Examples of the refresh 
in the period included upgraded ranges of Boardman 
and Apollo cycles, trials of cycle finance in-store, 
extended ranges online, the introduction of wearable 
fitness technology and a revised private-label hierarchy 
that included the new Halfords Essentials brand. 
The business also focused on the balance between 
third-party and private-label brands. The third-party 
Tenn brand in Cycling clothing was introduced in 
the period, whilst the upweighted focus on Kärcher 
pressure washers compared against a reduced focus 
on the Halfords-branded offer in Car Cleaning. Global 
brands such as General Electric were also introduced 
within the Car Maintenance category. Attention has 
been paid to the execution of marketplace offers 
at the front of store, as well the introduction of 
interactive merchandising. 
stores f it to sHop
Three refreshed stores were opened at the end of July 
2013 wherein Halfords created a modern, engaging 
and friendlier store environment that encourages 
browsing and more interaction with colleagues. At the 
period end, 27 stores were trading in the new format, 
with a further c.50 stores planned for refresh in the new 
financial year. The stores refreshed so far are delivering 
results in line with management’s plans and investment 
criteria. Halfords will continue improving its portfolio 
of Cycling departments by the end of FY16 after 100 
were refreshed in the period.
21
st
 Century infr astru Ctur e
A key focus within the Getting Into Gear programme 
is infrastructure, particularly across IT systems and 
capability. Examples of the progress made include 
the upgrade to SAP , the core Retail operating system, 
completed in May 2014. New chip & PIN pads in 
store saved customers an average of 19 seconds 
per transaction, and to help colleagues, the business 
installed laptop computers in stores to make it easier 
to progress through the 3-Gears training programme. 
New VOIP technology across the store estate also 
enabled colleagues to serve customers more effectively 
and at reduced cost. 
halfo Rds c Reated  
a Mod ern, en GaGinG 
an d friendlier store 
enVir on Ment t hat 
encou RaGes BRow sin G 
an d mo Re inte Rac tion 
with collea Gues.
1
3
2
iMaGes
1 Further wefit growth.
2 Improved customer 
experience from our 
Service Revolution.
3 Training fuels our 
differentiated offer.
Gettin G i n to Gear i n te Gr ated a n nual r e port for the Year ended 28 March 2014
18
Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.indd   18 12/06/2014   14:21:13 23157.04 Proof 7  10-06-2014
The appointment of a new Supply Chain Director was 
followed by a trial to deliver more frequently to store, 
benefitting stock availability and potentially saving a 
significant element of courier cost related to the Click 
& Collect proposition.
Cli Ck Wit H t He diGit al f ut ure
The goal of Click with the Digital Future is to create 
a much-improved online and omnichannel Retail 
experience. Phase One of the website relaunch went 
live in November 2013, with a different tone of voice 
to make the website more emotionally engaging and 
inspiring. A new home page included more-intuitive 
navigation to help all customers find what they are 
looking for more easily and with far fewer clicks. The 
system of checkout was reshaped to help customers 
complete their transaction more simply; this was 
designed to reduce the risk of abandoned baskets. 
Customers also now pay for their entire Click & 
Collect transactions in store. Further enhancements 
will be completed in due course, including social-
network interactions and upgraded ‘my account’ 
functionality.
auto Centres
The investment plan continued as new centres 
were opened and the business looks to improve the 
consistency of in-centre service. Expenditure was 
directed to improving the infrastructure, from new 
IT systems to more-efficient processing systems, 
enabling more effective centre management. As service 
is central to the Halfords strategy, colleague incentives 
were changed in the year to embed customer-service 
metrics, such as net promoter scores; colleague 
engagement continued to improve this year.
This customer-centric plan is vital as the business 
extends its differentiation from key competitors. 
Autocentres will also better leverage the relationship 
with the Retail stores. Andy Randall was appointed 
in March 2014 to lead the business and is focused 
on delivering a significantly-enhanced experience for 
Autocentre customers. 
CoMMunity enGaGeMent
This was the first year of a major step-up in activity 
designed to leverage Halfords’ specialist credentials in 
local areas through community engagement.  
In FY14 over 20,000 children and parents attended a 
Kids’ Bike Workshops in store to learn the basics of 
how to look after their bike, with 97% of parents likely 
to recommend the summer workshop to others. In 
FY15, together with the Easter holiday, stores will run 
the workshop in the summer and during the October 
half-term week, promoted through schools and links 
with children’s organisations such as UK Youth and 
Children’s University. Halfords now partners with the 
Scouts Association and supports the Cub Cyclist 
Activity badge. Building on this success, Halfords will 
also offer a tailored workshop in schools, focused on 
year-six pupils as they progress through Bikeability 
(formerly called cycling proficiency), as well as teachers 
seeking additional life skills to support their pupils’ 
transition to senior school. 
The partnership with Re~Cycle (the charity that sends 
unwanted bikes to Africa) went from strength to 
strength. In FY14 Halfords helped Re~Cycle double 
the number of containers sent to Africa through the 
world’s largest bike trade-in event, with over 10,000 
unwanted bikes donated at Halfords stores, diverting 
over 150 tonnes of waste to a sustainable alternative 
and generating £1.5m in new bike sales. In addition 
to more trade-in events in FY15, Halfords will also 
trial accepting bike donations at over 75 stores and 
will continue fundraising to support the £10 it costs 
to send a bike to Africa, with over £90,000 raised so 
far.  In FY15 stores will also receive ‘community’ hours 
to support additional local-community activity, helping 
them to build closer relationships with their local 
communities. 
Halfords has also been confirmed as the Official 
Mechanics Partner for the 2014 Sky Ride Big Bike 
series, spanning 14 events nationwide and supporting 
over 100,000 cyclists this summer. These free one-day 
events offer cyclists of all ages and abilities the chance 
to ride their bike on traffic-free streets or on cycle 
paths and parks in the heart of towns and cities across 
Britain. Halfords cycle mechanics will be a key part of 
the day, keeping cyclists on the move assisting with 
essential adjustments, cabling and tube replacements.
Halfords is also trialling a Cycle Repair Academy in 
Onley Prison, where a number of prisoners close to 
their release dates are being trained as bike mechanics 
with a view to being employed in Halfords stores, once 
released. This programme will provide Halfords with 
potentially very loyal, trained and motivated colleagues 
whilst at the same time supporting the broader goal of 
rehabilitation of offenders.
Current aCti Vity
As Halfords becomes more of a Cycling business in the 
first half of the year, a Summer Of Cycling lies ahead, 
with major launches imminent within the Halfords 
cycle range. The fastest growing and second-largest 
volume brand in the range, Carrera, will undergo a 
complete refresh in the summer. I am particularly 
pleased to see Kona and Mongoose, two formidable 
global Cycling brands, added to our growing list of 
superb cycle options. The Pinarello brand of cycles will 
soon be available at 43 stores  with around 50 models 
onlin today. These launches will coincide with a busy 
summer of Cycling events, with the recent Giro d’Italia 
Big Start in Belfast, the Tour de France’s Le Grande 
Départ in Yorkshire in July and the Commonwealth 
Games in Glasgow in July and August.
Halfords Retail’s auto business also has a busy period 
ahead, with the launch of Car Parts Direct by the end 
of summer 2014, wherein around 130,000 car-part 
SKUs will be available for prompt pick-up at Halfords 
stores or through home delivery. A number of smaller 
accretive opportunities will be progressed, including 
the sale of powersport and leisure batteries, the sale 
online of car registration plates as well as the ranging of 
scooter helmets.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all 
colleagues for their immense contribution and 
commitment to the progress of Halfords and the 
implementation of the plan to reposition the  
business. It has been a pleasure to work with you over 
the past year.
Matt Davies  
Chief Executive 
21 May 2014
We were finalists in the Business Charity Awards 
in two categories: Charity Partnership – Retail 
and Leisure; and CSR Team. The Business 
Charity Awards are run by Third Sector magazine 
to recognise the outstanding contribution made 
by businesses in the UK to good causes.
We are also pleased to have been confirmed as 
an International CSR Excellence Award winner, 
in recognition of our commitment to community 
and corporate social responsibility. 
aWard Winnin G ye ar
halfords.annualreport2014.com s to ck c o de: hfd
h a lfords Group plc a n nual r e port and accounts  2014
s trate Gic r eport s trate Gy s trate Gic r eport o verview s trate Gic r eport p erformance s trate Gic r eport risk Governance f inancials s hareholder i nformation 19
Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.indd   19 12/06/2014   14:21:13
