 Strong and active management delivers record profits
The Group performance has been strong despite market conditions remaining
difficult. We achieved record profits* of £50.3 million on a lower level of operating
assets, despite a net £1 million profit hit from currency movements. Widespread
improvement in sales performance across the Group’s businesses and regions
produced 9% sales growth. These results reflect our active management approach
through which we achieve growth through focused acquisitions, efficiency
improvementsandtheorganicdevelopmentofourexistingbusinesses.Iampleased
that excellent efforts from our management teams produced a return on capital
employed* of52%,outstanding foranyengineering andmanufacturing company.
Intheyearwesoldthreenon-corebusinessesfromourOpticsandSpecialistsector
thatwerenotcompatiblewithourtargetsforgrowthandfinancialreturns. Sincethe
year end we have made two important acquisitions for a total initial sum of
£22 million, significantly strengthening this sector. Looking forward we expect to
gain useful benefits from our acquisition and disposal activities. Two further
businesses were also consolidated to achieve the benefits of greater integration.
We remain strongly cash generative, creating net cash of £22 million during the
year. We funded our acquisitions from profits and also paid a record sum in
dividends to our shareholders.
Well positioned for growth
Our growth has come primarily from new products, the new customers they attract
and new applications for long-term repeat ordering customers. We spent a record
amount on research and development which now accounts for 4% of sales and
launched many new products. Our cost base has been well managed so that we
maintained our 17%return on sales* foryet anotheryear. TheGroup is in astrong
position to benefit from improvements in our end markets although we saw no
upturninthe2003/04financialyearandarenotreliantonamarketrecoveryforour
future growth.
*see Financial Highlights
‘‘strong and active
management delivers
record profits’’
Stephen O’Shea,
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review HALMA
Halma p.l.c. 2004 7 Management team strengthened
There has been a seamless transition with our Chairman, Geoff Unwin, stepping up
fromhispreviousroleasDeputyChairmaninJuly2003andwiththeappointmentof
anewnon-executiveDirector,StephenPettit,inSeptember2003.Themanagement
team has been further strengthened with the recruitment of two additional senior
managers,NigelTroddandAndyRichardson,whomwewelcomeintotheGroup.We
said goodbye to David Barber, the founder and architect of the Halma culture who
servedtheGroupoveranoutstandingtenureof31years.Weowemuchtohimand
all of us wish him well in his retirement.
Widespread sales and profit growth
I am encouraged by the number of countries where we have built up stronger
positions. Territorial sales were grown to the UK, Europe, USA, Middle and Far East
and Other Countries. The US Dollar weakened considerably during the year so that
although sales in the USA grew by 12% in local currency, this translated to a 2%
increaseinSterlingterms.WemakeoveraquarterofourprofitsfromourUSbased
companies.TheyincreasedUSDollarprofitsalthoughinSterlingtermsthisconverts
toasmalldeclineof5%,£0.7million.Wewerehelpedintheearlypartoftheyearby
the strength of the Euro.
SalesfromourEuropeancompanies grewby42%to£43.7million.WeownedBEA,
the world market leading supplier of automatic door sensors, for the whole of the
year(comparedtoa6monthcontributionlastyear).Thisverysuccessfulacquisition
continuestodeliverimpressiveresultsbyproducingexcellentproductsandgrowing
its customer base across the world. We have rolled out one of BEA’s innovation
techniques across the whole of the Group, demonstrating our commitment to
transferring best practice.
Just over half our sales and profits are made by the UK companies. Continuing
operationsearnedprofitsof£26.6million,reflectingorganicgrowthof£1.9million,
and increased sales by £10.6 million. Profits from our companies outside of the
UK and USA, helped by £2.7 million from BEA, rose by £3.2 million.
New Elevator safety products
OurElevatorandDoorSafetysectorperformedparticularlywelldemonstratingboth
organicandacquisitiongrowth.Itsprofitsarenow£12.1million,24%oftheGroup’s
total. The Far East and Asia are increasingly important territories and we extended
our premises in Beijing and our manufacturing facilities in Shanghai and Beijing, as
well as growing in Singapore. Important product innovations include new
emergencycommunicationequipment,demandforwhichislikelytogrowfollowing
new European legislation in this area.
Repositioning in Optics and Specialist sector
We are increasing the focus on higher technology products and more technically
advanced customers. Evidence of this can be seen in both the disposals made this
year and in the acquisitions of Diba and Ocean Optics since the year end, both of
which significantly broaden ourcapabilities inour Opticsand Specialist sector. Diba
productsextendourproductrangeofferedtoinstrumentmakersinthegrowingfield
oflifesciences.OceanOpticsmakespectrometers thathelpanalyse substancesvia
their reaction to light. They are closely related to our water purity measuring
photometers and other optical diagnostic equipment. Our trading in this sector
Chief Executive’s Review continued
HALMA
Halma p.l.c. 2004 8 produced increased profits. However within the sector we report our Head Office
companiesandtheimprovedtradingwasmorethanoffsetbythecostsofincreasing
senior management and lower income from subsidiaries who reduced their capital
employed whilst growing profits. The net effect was a reduction in profits of
£0.4 million to £7.1 million.
Organic growth in Fire and Gas sector
TheFireandGassectorincreasedbothsalesandprofitswithnewfiredetectorsand
personal gas warning monitors. They earned £1.6 million of organic profit growth.
This sector increased its already effective use of assets, producing a return on
capital employed of 85%, exceeding even the Group’s strong ratios.
Resistors sector as predicted
As expected, our Resistors sector continued to suffer a depressed market,
particularly in US heavy industry. There are some indications of improvement in
one of our customer areas, mass transit systems. The sector has been managed
vigorously in terms of both cost and working capital reductions though we have yet
to reverse the decline in profits.
Investment in new products
Our Process Safety sector did not quite match last year’s sales and profits. The UK
market proved difficult although there are now improving conditions in the
petrochemical sector, which look likely to continue. New applications and specially
developed products are particularly important in this sector. New products
introduced late in the year that improve safety at delivery bays and provide
enhanced emergency pressure relief, are examples of increasing innovation in this
otherwise stable sector.
Product leadership helps Water sector to increased profits
Our Water sector increased both sales and profits this year. We believe we are now
offering customers the best UV sterilisation systems for drinking water on the
market.SalesofwaterleakdetectionandcontrolequipmentaregrowingintheUSA
and there are prospects of capital spending by UK water utilities beginning to rise.
We see this as a long-term growth sector.
Sustained growth based on sustained innovation
Our focus on innovation and investment in research and development is bringing
forwardincreasingnumbersofnewproductsandacceleratingtheacquisitionofnew
customers. The free cash generated by our businesses and through disposals has
been invested in maintaining this momentum and building our range of products
through judicious acquisitions. We will benefit significantly once our markets
improve but we are not dependant on this. We have the talent and the resources
weneedtobuildonourprogressthroughourownefforts.Theevidenceforthisisthe
record sales and profits earned this year and the confidence we have in continuing
our rapid rate of dividend increase. I look forward to the coming year.
Stephen R O’Shea
Chief Executive’s Review continued
HALMA
Halma p.l.c. 2004 9
