 In my first year as Chairman of Halma, I am delighted to announce record profit
before tax* of £50.3 million.
Observations from a new Chairman
However, before turning to more of the headline numbers, I thought it might be
useful, as a new boy to the Group, to share some of my initial observations, and to
glimpse behind the scenes at some of the issues we have been tackling.
FirstlyletmesaythatIwasattractedtoHalmabyitsextraordinarytrackrecord(one
of the top performing stocks on the London Stock Exchange over 20 years), its
management style and the robustness of demand for its products even under
difficult market conditions. I was intrigued. My induction into the Group, guided by
DavidBarber,wasexemplary.HeleftmealonetogowhereIwanted,askwhatever
I wished, yet was always available to discuss, debate and question what I had
observed.
Over the first few months I visited operations accounting for about half our profits.
I saw companies both large and small; some fighting in tough markets, many
successful – the picture became clearer. The strengths were evident:
* demand related to health and safety provided a driver or (at least) support to
demand.
* high market shares gave some protection to pricing.
* autonomously run companies gave clarity of responsibility and ownership of
performance.
* high returns on sales and capital.
* financial control was tight.
* a track record of which to be proud.
* many truly excellent and dedicated people.
*see Financial Highlights
‘‘...no shortage of
ideas, determination
or actions...’’
Geoff Unwin,
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement HALMA
Halma p.l.c. 2004 4 However, over the last few years, performance as measured by our high historic
standards had not moved ahead as we would have wished. This was undoubtedly
due, to a certain extent, to the tough economic conditions we have seen recently,
but had other factors crept in that were holding us back?
Our Response
This was the question that was posed to the Board and senior management.
Extremely thoughtful answers came in followed by very lively debates – no factor
remained unexamined, no cow, sacred or otherwise, undisturbed. The outcome?
Work was accelerated on a number of potential bottlenecks:
* management: much strengthening (from both within and outside) and
training programmes increased.
* incentives:newbonusschemestoexplicitlyalignperformancetoshareholder
value.
* knowledgetransfer:‘‘wiringup’’theGrouptofacilitatetransferofknowledge
without destroying the foundations of autonomy.
* reducedspanofcontrol: remarkably, senior management felt they could be
more effective if they had fewer companies to manage and could therefore
implement necessary change faster. Done.
* sales:renewedemphasisonallaspectsofsellingandsharingofthebestideas
for tackling new markets across the Group.
* innovation:morefundsallocatedtoinnovationandnewtechniquesintroduced
to get improved or new products to market, faster.
* resource allocation: the beginnings (more to come) of a more rigorous
allocation of resources (capital and management) to higher growth areas. This
year we have made three non-core disposals.
Have the actions on these issues had some effect on performance? Impossible to
quantifybutnooneisinanydoubtwearethebetterforfocusingonthesepriorities.
However, what is undeniable is that the results from these actions are due to the
hard work and single-mindedness of the management team together with the
dedication from all our employees towards our customers.
The Results
Profitbeforetax*wasarecord£50.3millionandearningspershare*,alsoarecord,
increased by10%to9.44p.Returnoncapital*was52.4%andnetcashattheyear
end was £22 million.
Turnover grew by 9% to a record £292.6 million. During the year we disposed of
three businesses deemed to be non-core, and shortly after the year end acquired
Diba Industries, Inc., strengthening our position in the life sciences market, and
Ocean Optics, Inc., extending our optical technology.
TheBoardrecommendafinaldividendof3.75pencepershare,givinganincreaseof
7% for the year.
*see Financial Highlights
Chairman’s Statement continued
HALMA
Halma p.l.c. 2004 5 Prospects
There is no shortage of ideas, determination or actions and these should show
through next year, as they have this year, in our results. We continue to focus on
those areas that are clearly under our control or influence, notwithstanding that
there is still little evidence of any significant uplift in our markets.
Geoff Unwin
Chairman’s Statement continued
HALMA
Halma p.l.c. 2004 6
