 06 Halma p.l.c. 2006
We have had an outstanding year producing profit growth 
from continuing operations* of 20% (18% on a statutory basis)
and revenue growth of 16%. Organic growth* was 15% and 11%
for profit and revenue respectively .
This is a record performance by a significant margin and 
was achieved against a background of major strategic change.
This is a testament to the robustness of our growth strategy 
and the quality of the contributions made by our employees.
We now report our results under three market-defined sectors:
Infrastructure Sensors, Health and Analysis and Industrial Safety .
These replace the previous six product-based divisions and
more closely reflect the coherent nature of our activities and the
way we operate, as well as making it easier for shareholders 
to gain a better understanding of what we do. Y ou will find 
details about each sector in the comprehensive business review
which follows.
Our return to organic growth was widespread across the Group
and was underpinned by a tremendous performance in the
Health and Analysis sector . Strong organic growth was boosted
further by a rapid recovery by our Water business. Infrastructure
Sensors started to show promising revenue growth in the second
half, although continued investment in the sales and support
structure for the longer term suppressed short-term profits. 
All parts of our Industrial Safety sector performed strongly 
with the buoyant oil and petrochemical market contributing 
to healthy revenue and profit growth.
I am very pleased with the record Return on Capital Employed
(“ROCE”)* of 57% achieved during the year . Our success in
achieving growth has not come at the expense of diluting the
quality of our returns. Another year of strong cash generation
has funded organic growth, acquisitions and, for the 27th
consecutive year , enabled a further increase in our dividend 
of 5%. Between self-generated cash and a longer term debt
facility of £60 million, we have sufficient capital resources to 
support our growth plans for the coming year .
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Record profit and revenues 
achieved against a background 
of major strategic change.
*See Financial highlights. Halma p.l.c. 2006   07
We completed three acquisitions, all of which are performing
ahead of expectations. Netherlocks, acquired in July , increased
our presence in the oil and petrochemical market and
strengthened further our leadership in valve safety interlocks.
Radio-T ech, acquired in August, brought important wireless
communications technology to our Water business and offers
new opportunities elsewhere in the Group. In November , we
acquired T execom giving us an entry into the strategically
important security sensor market. T execom offers us attractive
growth potential in its own right. It has common sales distribution
channels with Fire and similar technology platforms to our 
Door Safety activities, providing additional opportunities for 
the longer term.
The disposal of eight businesses demonstrated our commitment
to actively allocate capital and people resources. In February 
we sold our high power Resistors business for £14 million. 
While this business had generated good value for shareholders
over many years, its recent performance relative to other Halma
companies, and in absolute terms, fell short of expectations. 
The net result of the acquisitions and disposals made this year 
is that we are making more profit, we have allocated more
resource to markets with higher growth potential and we have
10% fewer companies.
We are expanding geographically . We have opened additional
sales and technical support offices in China, India, Malaysia,
Spain, Ireland, US and, most recently , Dubai. In addition, we have
established new manufacturing facilities in Eastern Europe and
T unisia. Although we have manufactured Infrastructure Sensor
products in China for over a decade, we are increasing our direct
presence in this important long-term growth market at a faster
pace. For example, we are creating new Halma “hubs” in
Shanghai and Beijing to help our companies get new activities
established or develop their existing activities more rapidly . We
expect those companies which are successful to spin-out and
develop as strong, independent operations in their own right.
Last year , I mentioned the need for us not only to maintain our
high level of investment in Research & Development (“R&D”),
currently 4% of revenues, but improve speed to market too. 
This year we launched over 100 new products. There are some
early signs of improvement in speed to market in some parts 
of the Group, although we can still do more. For example, high
quality R&D resources in lower cost territories, such as India, 
can supplement our essential in-house technical capabilities to
achieve shorter product development cycles.
Our highly decentralised operating structure makes us
particularly dependent on the quality of our local management
teams. Following the significant people changes made at
operating company board level over the past two years, 
it is pleasing to see this action translate into improved results. 
T o build further momentum, we have created a bespoke
development programme for our senior management at 
Henley Management College, a leading UK business school. 
This leadership development programme not only helps our
management become even more successful in their current role,
but also gives us a stronger pool of talent to draw on as new
opportunities arise.
I thank all the employees for their contribution during an exciting
and successful year . We can take great confidence in the
exceptional results that have been achieved during the year 
but recognise there is no room for complacency . Our goal is to
achieve growth and create value for shareholders every year .
We have made tremendous progress in 2005/06 in terms of both
achieving organic growth in the short term and improving our
growth potential for the future. Our underlying growth prospects
remain good and we enter the new year better placed to exploit
them due to the rapid recovery in our Water business and new
acquisitions. I look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive
Strategic achievements 
> Organic profit growth* 15%, organic revenue growth* 11%
>
3 acquisitions inject new technology and new markets
> 8 disposals generate £15 million cash
> New Chinese, Indian and Middle East sales offices
> New manufacturing facilities in low cost areas
> Over 100 new products launched
>
Management development programme launched
> 57% ROCE* funds organic growth, acquisitions 
and dividend increase
> Ungeared at year end
Strategic directions
> Organic growth to exceed 5% p.a.
>
Continued management development
> Establish “hubs” in China 
> Maintain strong new product innovation
> Acquisitions – particularly in Health and Analysis
*See Financial highlights.
