 Halma p.l.c. 2006   05
Chairman’s statement
During the last year , Halma has 
made significant progress.
During the last year , Halma has made significant progress. 
First of all, the headline numbers. The total Group including
discontinued operations, which is what we were responsible 
for throughout the year , increased revenue by 12.8% to 
£337.3 million (2004/05: £299.1 million). Profit before tax and
amortisation of acquired intangibles on this basis increased by
19.4% to £59.6 million (2004/05: £49.9 million*). Revenue and
profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles from
continuing operations increased by 15.7% to £310.8 million and
20.3% to £58.1 million respectively. Statutory profit before tax
increased by 17.9% to £56.6 million. All these figures are clear
records for the Group. These results reflect organic revenue
growth** of 10.8% and organic profit growth** of 14.9%. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.12p per 
share, an increase of 5% for the year , in line with our policy of
progressively increasing the dividend but also increasing cover
which now moves to 1.6 times (2004/05: 1.5 times). Return on
total invested capital** improved to 12.8% (2004/05: 12.1%). 
Over the last few years our focus has been on re-establishing
organic growth; a point emphasised and supported by
shareholders at last year’s annual general meeting. In previous
statements I highlighted some of the areas that may have been
holding us back and some of our actions to address them, 
for example – more and faster innovation, upgrading our sales
capabilities, more investment in training our people, sharpening
and simplifying our devolved management structures, rethinking
management incentives and so on. Well, the action we took
certainly worked last year . The statistician in me would love to 
be able to determine what benefit we got from what changes –
intriguing, but impossible to do with precision. What I can say , 
is that we are not resting on one year’s results and we continue 
to examine and debate each and every factor that may be
impeding us.
What is also very noticeable is the impact of our new CEO
Andrew Williams. Our strategy is clearer than it has been since 
I arrived on the Board (this is articulated later in this report both
at the Group level and for each of the three new major operating
sectors). Speed of decision making has improved dramatically
(the same piece of paper rarely gets picked up off his desk
twice) and this is spreading throughout the Group, although
Andrew would be the first to modestly say “it’s a team effort”, 
and he’s right.
With this strategy as a template, the direction of cash allocation 
is much clearer . In line with this, we have disposed of eight
businesses during the year and acquired three, so, in turn, 
our structures and focus are also far clearer . Our balance sheet
remains strong – at the year end we had net cash of £4 million
despite investing £36 million in acquisitions and receiving 
£15 million from disposals. Including £60 million of debt capacity ,
we have significant firepower to acquire more companies in line
with our strategic directions. We are also investing in more sales
and production infrastructure in the new fast-growing economies
– particularly China, the aim being to make it easier for our
individual companies to make further , and in some cases first,
steps there in developing more business.
I should like to thank all of our employees for their dedication 
to our customers and their constant ability to come up with
innovative ideas. The increased investment in people seems to 
be having a very significant payback with a healthy queue of
excellent internal candidates now clamouring to participate 
in our customised management training.
So, behind these record results also lies record investment – in
people, innovation and new markets as well as new acquisitions.
This, together with clarity of direction and increased momentum
gives us confidence for the future.
All in all, an excellent vintage.
Geoff Unwin Chairman
*Restated under IFRS see note 1 to the accounts.
**See Financial highlights.
