 Halma p.l.c. 2007   03
Chairman’s statement
*See Financial highlights.
The last financial year has again seen good progress for 
Halma. Revenue from continuing operations increased 14% to
£354.6 million (£310.8 million in 2006) with underlying organic
growth* of 8.1% despite adverse currency effects of 2.3% i.e.
10.4% at constant currency . Profit before tax and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles on continuing operations was £66.1 million
(2006: £58.1 million) an increase of 14%, organic growth* at
constant currency was 10.1%. This organic profit growth*
compares with an equivalent figure of 14% in 2006 where we
benefited from the rebound in the Water business, so in the year
under review we faced slightly tougher comparables. Statutory
profit before tax increased by 11% to £62.6 million. The Board is
recommending a final dividend of 4.33p per share, an increase 
of 5% for the year and our 28th consecutive year of dividend
increases of 5% or more. Our dividend cover has increased to
1.74 times (2006: 1.61 times). Return on total invested capital*
was 14.0% (2006: 12.8%).
We have also made a number of acquisitions during the year:
Mikropack, Baldwin Environmental and Labsphere in the Health
and Analysis sector and T ritech and System T echnologies in 
the Industrial Safety sector . In total we invested £27 million in
acquisitions with a maximum potential of a further £5 million in
deferred consideration. After the positive action taken in the
previous year , no disposals were made during the period under
review . At the end of the year our net debt was £7.7 million.
During the year we have seen a continuous flow of new
products, some of which are detailed in this report. We are 
also beginning to see results from our investments in China.
During the year seven additional companies within the Group
established a local presence there and during the coming year
we expect several more to commence.
Our investment in people continues apace with enthusiastic
attendance at our management training programmes and it is
pleasing to see the energy with which attendees return to their
companies, refreshed, invigorated, having learnt much, but more
importantly , with a network of colleagues who actively support
each other on all aspects of our business such as selling,
innovation, technology and quality .
All of these investments, together with our investments in
strengthening our selling and distribution resources, feed 
and support our strategy for healthy organic growth, so it is
encouraging to see that this focus continues to bear fruit. 
This also gives us even more confidence that we can deliver
significant value for shareholders from acquisitions that fit our
strategic framework and meet our strict acquisition criteria.
Furthermore we have significant financial resource at our
disposal to do more.
In March, Andrew Walker stepped down from the Board and 
I should like to record our thanks for all his contribution during 
his four-year tenure as a non-executive Director of the Group 
and wish him well for the future.
On behalf of the Board, I should also like to thank all our
employees for producing such a good performance.
In summary , another good year with continuing investment 
in people, innovation, market development and acquisitions. 
This, together with strong and effective leadership from our
management team, gives us confidence for the future.
Geoff Unwin Chairman
Another good year with continuing
investment in people, innovation,
market development and acquisitions.
