 04 Halma p.l.c. 2007
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Record revenues and profits once
again demonstrating our ability to
deliver organic growth.
Record results with 8% organic profit growth*
We have achieved record revenues and profits once again,
demonstrating our ability to deliver organic growth which is the
primary measure of our success. For continuing operations, total
revenues increased by 14%, including 8% organic growth*, with
total profits before amortisation of acquired intangibles also
increasing by 14%, including 8% organic*. Impressively , these
significant increases were achieved despite a 2% to 3% adverse
currency impact during the year .
Strong returns and cash flow supports record dividend 
and investment
Return on sales* (2007: 18.6%; 2006: 18.7%), Return on 
capital employed* (2007: 60.1%; 2006: 56.9%) and Return on 
total invested capital* (2007: 14.0%; 2006: 12.8%) all remained
strong or increased in accordance with our objective of
generating growth without diluting the quality of our returns.
Cash flow was good and we ended the year with £7.7 million net
debt having funded five acquisitions, significant organic growth
and a further dividend increase of 5%.
Acquisitions completed in targeted markets
The Group completed five acquisitions during the year . 
Two of these acquisitions, Mikropack (April 2006) and Baldwin
Environmental (September 2006) added new products to 
two of our leading Health and Analysis businesses and 
were merged with these existing businesses immediately 
on completion. Of greater significance were T ritech/System
T echnologies (November 2006) and Labsphere (February 2007)
who are world leaders in subsea asset monitoring (Industrial
Safety) and light measurement (Health and Analysis) respectively .
All five businesses have performed well since joining the Group.
We have allocated more resources to our acquisition search
activity as acquisitions continue to be an important element 
of our long-term growth plans.
Growth in all business sectors and all global regions
Each of Halma’s three business sectors achieved record
revenues and profits.
> Infrastructure Sensors grew strongly with profits up 16% from
17% revenue growth following the increased investment in
sales and product development made last year .
> Health and Analysis performed well generating a 7% increase
in profits from revenue up 9%. This sector makes just under
half of all the Group’s sales into markets where the currency is
US$ (or US$-related) and bore the brunt of adverse currency
movements during the year .  Halma p.l.c. 2007   05
Strategic achievements
> 8% organic revenue and profit growth drives record results
> Five acquisitions add technology and a new 
sub-sector business
> Seven Group companies newly represented in Halma hubs 
in Shanghai and Beijing
> 60 senior managers completed Halma Executive 
Development Programme
> More than 70 new products launched during 2006/07
Strategic directions
> Organic growth to exceed 5% p.a.
> T argeted acquisitions
> Build on Chinese hubs and grow revenues in Asia
> Continued management development
> Maintain strong new product introduction
*See Financial highlights.
> Industrial Safety proved once again to be a strong and
consistent performer with revenue growth of 15% driving
profits up by 19%.
Geographically , revenues and profits increased in each major
territory . The UK and mainland Europe proved to be particularly
strong and our Industrial Safety businesses benefited from
continuing high investment in the oil, gas and petrochemical
industries – especially in the Middle East.
Many of our products are used to protect or improve the
environment which offers us exciting opportunities for growth. 
In addition, we recognise that we can do more to minimise the
impact that our business activities have on the environment and
believe we can do this by increasing efficiencies thereby creating
further value for shareholders. Examples of the actions we are
taking are included in the Business and financial review .
Greater activity in Asia
Revenues to Asia Pacific and Australasia grew by 7% and
continue to represent around 10% of Group sales. Over the
medium term, this region offers growth rates in excess of the
Group average and, as announced previously , we created Halma
“hubs” in Shanghai and Beijing in August 2006 to accelerate
business development by our subsidiaries in the region. 
This is a good example of how the Group can help our
businesses to develop more quickly without compromising 
their autonomy and freedom. We regularly review the
opportunities for similar Group initiatives in other regions, 
markets or functional areas.
Product and process innovation driving organic growth
We maintained a healthy level of investment in Research &
Development (R&D) (4.3% of revenues) and capital expenditure.
These investments are critical factors in our ability to sustain
growth through increasing innovation in products and processes.
Over 70 new products were launched by Halma companies
during the year , providing encouragement for our future growth
prospects. Some of these products resulted from collaboration
amongst Group companies.
Increasing investment in talented people
Developing and growing businesses already performing at a
high level is a challenging task and I would like to thank each
employee in every Halma company for their contribution to
another successful year for the Group.
We have worked hard in recent years to change our culture 
from being too inwardly focussed on managing returns. This has
included major people changes with over 65% of our subsidiary
managers having joined the Group in the past four years. 
Increased investment in training and development, including the
flagship Halma Executive Development Programme (HEDP)
launched 18 months ago, is translating into improved financial
performance and greater strategic clarity throughout the Group.
By the end of 2007, over 80 of our senior managers will have
benefited from the HEDP . 
This commitment to improving our people resources means that
internal promotions are now a more realistic and frequent option.
Accordingly , it was pleasing for me to promote Mark Lavelle to
the Executive Board in April 2007 following five successful 
years as Managing Director of Keeler , one of our Health and
Analysis businesses. This coincided with a change of divisional
responsibilities in the Executive Board to ensure we continue to
provide fresh insights and new approaches for our businesses.
Halma’s long-term growth record continues
Since 1970, Halma has increased revenue every year bar 
two. T oday we have very modest net debt of £7.7 million having 
self-funded organic growth, acquisitions and paid dividends to
shareholders over the years totalling £235 million, excluding the
final dividend proposed for this year .
So what has changed over the past two years to give us a new
confidence that we can attain even higher levels of success?
Simply that our proven ability to choose sustainable growth
markets is being boosted with greater ambition, customer focus,
more innovation, new technologies and stronger management
resources all driven with a clear strategy for each part of our
business. These results demonstrate that we are making good
progress and we remain positive about our prospects for the
year and the longer term.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive
