 Hamworthy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 04
Results
I am delighted to report Hamworthy’s
first set of annual results since joining
AIM in July 2004. These results are in
line with the management’s anticipated
outturn for the twelve months ending
31 March 2005 at flotation.
2004/05 represented a further year of
growth by the Group. Turnover for the
year increased by 25.7% to £113.9 million
(2004: £90.6 million). Operating profit
increased by 36.1% to £7.1 million
(2004: £5.2 million). On a pro forma*
basis operating profit increased by 24.4%
to £7.3 million (2004: £5.9 million).
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
increased by 52.2% to £6.4 million (2004:
£4.2 million). Basic earnings per share
decreased by 35.6% to 17.7p (2004:
27.5p). This decrease principally is driven
by the increase in the issued share capital
immediately prior to the admission to
AIM. Pro forma* earnings per share rose
by 38.3% to 14.8p (2004: 10.7p).
Your directors are recommending a final
ordinary dividend of 3.24p per share which
is consistent with the intention stated
at the time of the flotation. Subject to
shareholders’ approval the final dividend
will be paid on 24 July 2005 to all
shareholders on the register at 1 July 2005.
Business progress
The Group won significant orders during
the year and all business sectors saw
an increase in order intake compared
with the previous year.
The largest order, worth £48 million,
was for Liquid Natural Gas (LNG)
reliquefaction systems for eight QatarGasII
LNG carriers. These advanced vessels are
the largest LNG carriers so far ordered
and puts the Group in a strong position
to compete for LNG reliquefaction
systems in future. Indeed, since the year
end orders for four further shipsets of
equipment have been won. Other
significant orders included those for
wastewater systems on five new cruise
ships ordered by Carnival, including the
Queen Victoria for Cunard, a specialised
inert gas system on the offshore facility
to be built by Daewoo for the Chevron
Texaco Agbami field in Nigeria, and the
launch order for the new CKL 200 electric
deepwell pump for tankers being built for
a German owner.
The major contributors to the strong
turnover and profit performance were the
gas reliquefaction and inert gas businesses
offset by reductions in non-deepwell pump
spares and wastewater management
systems for the cruise sector. Non-deepwell
pump spares can be expected to continue
to decline as a result of declining field
population following reduced turnover of
these products over the last two decades.
The opposite trend is in progress for
Chairman’s Statement
The Group won significant orders during the
year and all business sectors saw an increase in
order intake compared with the previous year.
* Pro forma operating profit and earnings per share have been calculated to exclude certain items of a non-recurring nature
and present consistency between the two financial years including consistency of financial structure. These calculations are
detailed in the Financial Review on pages 10 and 11 and in note 27 to the financial statements.
2004/05 represented a further
year of growth by the Group.
Turnover for the year increased
by 26% to £113.9 million
(2004: £90.6 million).
Operating profit increased
by 36% to £7.1 million
(2004: £5.2 million). 
_0HAM_2004_arf.qxd  20/06/2005  15:44  Page 04 wastewater spares where rising new
product volumes are producing increased
spares turnover.
Corporate governance
You will see from the other sections of
this report that much progress has been
made in developing the governance
systems of the Group beyond those
strictly required for AIM companies. Many
of the details and policies are available on
the Group’s web site. Wherever practical
the Group will seek to comply with the
requirements of the Combined Code and
is planning to adopt International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the year
ending 31 March 2007, one year earlier
than the requirement for AIM companies. 
Strategy
The Group’s focus on technical innovation
has been a significant source of organic
growth and this will continue to be
a priority. This innovation is often in
response to environmental legislation
that creates new markets. The Group
is focused on providing equipment
and systems for specialist ship types,
particularly those concerned with oil
and gas transportation and production.
Owners of these ship types and the
offshore sector both require products
with extremely efficient through-life
economics and very high reliability as
do the world’s major cruise operators,
who represent the other main ship type
targeted by the Group.
This emphasis on quality is of paramount
importance in China where the Group’s
assembly and procurement activities have
expanded considerably. The assembly
activity was established in 1998 ahead
of its competitors.
In the period since float the Group
has concentrated on delivering organic
growth. It is now considering opportunities
to augment this by selective acquisition.
It is seeking acquisitions which fit the
existing skills and activities of the Group
and which will enhance shareholder value.
The strength of the Group lies in the skills
and commitment of its 670 employees
and on behalf of the board I thank them
for their continued energy and dedication.
Strong order intake has continued in most
business sectors except for the offshore
market which has experienced delays to
a number of projects. We look forward
to a year of continued growth.
Gordon Page
Chairman
Hamworthy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05
Summary of the chairman’s statement
• Results in line with expectations
at flotation.
• The Group won significant orders
during the year and all business
sectors saw an increase in order intake
compared with the previous year.
• The major contributors to the strong
turnover and profit performance 
were the gas reliquefaction and
inert gas businesses.
• Strong order intake has continued
in most business sectors.
• Opportunities to augment organic
growth by acquisitions.
The Group’s focus on
technical innovation has been
a significant source of organic
growth and this will continue
to be a priority. 
_0HAM_2004_arf.qxd  20/06/2005  15:44  Page 05
