 “ A key element of the Group’s strategy is to 
serve a diversity of market segments with a 
balanced portfolio of products. This, coupled 
with a continued emphasis on market-led 
innovation together with market share 
gains, often through leadership in low cost 
manufacture and procurement, is a formula 
suited to the long term and provides the 
best prospect of continuing the impressive 
organic growth rate.”
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The Group continued its record of achieving strong organic growth increasing 
turnover by 20.3% and operating proﬁt before amortisation by 21.5%. The 
proﬁt increase was across most of the business with the biggest contributor 
being pump systems which produced £3.8 million of operating profit  
(2005: £2.4 million). 
A key element of the Group’s strategy is to serve a diversity of market 
segments with a balanced portfolio of products. This, coupled with a 
continued emphasis on market-led innovation together with market share 
gains, often through leadership in low cost manufacture and procurement,  
is a formula suited to the long term and provides the best prospect of 
continuing the impressive organic growth rate. 
The Group’s order performance was another record. Order intake for the year 
at £208.0 million was 36% ahead of the prior year and the closing order book 
at £206.8 million 71% ahead with all product groups up. This leaves the 
business poised for further growth in the years to come. Spares and service 
turnover improved to £21.2 million (2005: £19.9 million), the growth coming 
from pumps and inert gas systems with a contribution from the embryonic  
gas spares and service business.
For the ﬁrst time over half the Group’s turnover was sold in the Far East with 
6% in the UK and 35% in the rest of Europe. The Group has over the years 
established particularly strong positions in Korea and China through its own 
sales and service companies. Korea is the number one shipbuilder in the world 
with a formidable position in sophisticated vessels such as liqueﬁed natural gas 
(LNG) carriers. China is now challenging Japan for the number two position.
The Group’s success in obtaining record orders and the continuing strong 
prospects places emphasis on the need to accelerate further the increase in 
capacity, not just in manufacturing facilities, but also recruiting qualiﬁed staff  
of the highest calibre and supporting them with ﬁrst class IT infrastructure.  
In 2006/07 capital expenditure on expansion of manufacturing capacity and  
IT systems will be higher than previously anticipated.
MARKET CONDITIONS
Overall the market remains favourable. Industrial production across the Asian 
economies is growing at close to 8% per annum with the US and Europe at 
1.5% per annum. One of the consequences of this high industrial growth is a 
high oil price which has increased the level of upstream activity in oil and gas. 
That in turn has led to a sharp upturn in new projects and strong order levels 
for offshore production and storage vessels (FPSOs), LNG carriers and liqueﬁed 
petroleum gas (LPG) carriers.
Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 06 Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 07 SUMMARY OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Continued development of market led innovation
Closing order book increases in all businesses
Favourable market outlook
In aggregate 2,000 ships were ordered in 2005, the third year at this historically 
high level. Ship yards are full until 2008 and now selling berths in 2009 and 
2010. Delivery forecasts for all ship types of importance to the Group are 
strong in the medium term with the exception of product and crude tankers 
where a reduction in ship deliveries is expected from 2009. The product 
development and market planning policies of the Group take this data into 
account and direct resources to those areas with the best medium term 
demand prognosis. One example is very large crude carriers (VLCCs) which are 
expected to exhibit continuing strong deliveries beyond 2009 in contrast to 
smaller tankers. Hamworthy has engineered a new cargo pump system for 
these vessels and has already had success in China in obtaining orders worth 
£5 million in the early part of 2006/07 . Hamworthy’s broad product range and 
global presence gives it more strategic ﬂexibility than most of its competitors  
in this respect. 
GAS SYSTEMS
Turnover rose to £57 .7 million (2005: £44.8 million). Operating proﬁt rose to 
£3.0 million (2005: £2.7 million). There was a change in mix with the ﬁrst 
QatarGas II LNG reliquefaction contracts and an upturn in LPG reliquefaction 
more than replacing the North Sea volatile organic compound (VOC) contract 
which dominated the prior year. The aggregate order intake in the year grew 
strongly to £111.9 million (2005: £69.3 million). To support this burgeoning 
order intake there has been a signiﬁcant increase in infrastructure and staff 
numbers, up from 46 in April 2004 to 127 in April 2006. 
During 2005/06 the Group took orders for 12 further shipsets of LNG 
reliquefaction equipment for the QatarGas II contract, worth in excess of  
£50 million, bringing the total number to 20. To date the Group’s market share 
of this business is 100% but it is unwise to assume a single supplier position 
can be maintained. The Group’s medium term goal is to maintain a substantial 
market share and to diversify into LNG ships for other fields as well as 
QatarGas. Innovative development of the technology means that Hamworthy 
can now offer a lower energy consumption version of its existing LNG 
reliquefaction technology bringing both operating cost and environmental 
beneﬁts to the ship owner.
The Group secured an important breakthrough by obtaining its ﬁrst orders  
for LPG reliquefaction equipment from Hyundai Heavy Industries, the world’s 
largest shipbuilding group, which constructs more LPG carriers than any other 
yard. In aggregate, contracts for ﬁve shipsets worth in excess of £20 million 
were obtained from Hyundai as well as a further ﬁve shipsets for other Korean 
and Japanese yards. 
The third important order success was the contract to build an onshore small 
scale LNG liquefaction plant for Norwegian gas distribution company, Gasnor, 
at Kollsnes outside Bergen. The Group sees further opportunities elsewhere for 
sales of onshore systems both for applications similar to that at Kollsnes or for 
smaller systems principally for the recovery of organic waste gas from landﬁll. 
It has been conﬁrmed in the Norwegian press that the Group has been 
engaged with the Norwegian ship owner, Leif Höegh & Co, in the 
development of onboard LNG regasiﬁcation plants. The market will arise 
where the preferred solution for the discharge of LNG is to maintain the vessel 
offshore and regasify onboard in order to avoid the need for a terminal on 
land. Many new terminals will be built to handle the increasing volumes of 
LNG particularly in the US. Hamworthy’s technology meets the environmental 
requirements of the US authorities and prototype plants have already been 
built to test the new technology.
The Group is actively working on the development of its technology to meet 
the need for dealing with gases associated with offshore oil production. 
Recent environmental legislation prohibits the continued flaring of such 
associated gases and oil companies are thus seeking alternatives.
The Group has set up an after-market organisation for gas systems designed 
to handle preventative maintenance, spare parts and supervision, and 
commissioning at yards. The rapid growth in new product sales in recent  
years is the basis for this opportunity.
INERT GAS SYSTEMS
Turnover fell slightly to £16.5 million (2005: £16.6 million). Operating proﬁt fell 
to £0.8 million (2005: £1.0 million). The reduction in sales and proﬁt followed 
the delayed order intake of offshore contracts and the unusually high costs of 
development expenditure.
This business has for a while been focusing on improving its product offering 
and market share in the offshore sector on FPSOs and on LNG and LPG carriers, 
not least because of the weakness in the demand forecast for tankers from 
2009 onwards. For the ﬁrst time in 2005/06 the order intake for inert gas plant 
for FPSOs and gas ships exceeded that for tankers, an indication of the success 
in targeting these sectors. 
Within the next few months the development and testing of the inert gas plant 
for the largest sizes of LNG carrier will have been completed in the specialist 
test facility in Moss, Norway.
The move of standard products to Suzhou in China has continued with  
the proportion of components sourced domestically increased to 95%. As a 
consequence the number of manufacturing employees in the Moss plant has 
been reduced, and the renegotiated lease terms for the Moss site allow for 
ﬂexibility in the amount of factory space in future years.
Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 06 Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PUMP SYSTEMS
Turnover rose to £44.0 million (2005: £38.2 million). Operating proﬁt rose  
to £3.8 million (2005: £2.4 million). Both deepwell and conventional pumps 
improved proﬁtability with increases in market share in some key areas plus 
the beneﬁt of the cost saving by rationalising sales and order processing out  
of Norway for pump room systems and spares completed in 2004/05. 
For deepwell pumps turnover increased by 36% to £24.9 million driven by 
increased market share for our new ranges of oil-lubricated cargo pumps on 
ships and the beginning of the upturn in the offshore business. Order intake 
was well ahead of sales at nearly £40.0 million powered by orders for 
deepwell pumps for LPG ships, where the Group enjoys a high market share, 
and the success of the offshore pump unit based in Norway. This relatively 
young unit is responsible for sales to FPSOs of Hamworthy deepwell and 
conventional pump room pumps and third party products. Working with oil 
companies, oil contractors and shipyards it had its most successful year ever 
since its inception , in total taking orders for products on six FPSO projects 
destined for ﬁelds as far apart as China and Mexico.
The rest of the pump business comprises conventional pump room cargo 
pumps, ﬁre ﬁghting pumps, and general purpose engine room pumps together 
with replacement pumps and spares. The order intake at £21.9 million was 
modestly ahead of sales at £19.1 million but a few large orders were deferred 
into the early part of 2006/07 including the Group’s ﬁrst orders for pump room 
pumps on VLCCs worth around £5 million. The engine room pump order 
intake was particularly strong notably for offshore and replacement marine 
applications both of which are higher margin products.
This strong performance on order intake has put pressure on capacity at both 
the Singapore plant for conventional pumps and the Aalborg, Denmark plant 
for deepwell pumps. Capacity has been increased in both plants and this will 
be accelerated in the current year. In Singapore capacity will be increased 
immediately by 25% by a range of measures with a further increase in late 
2006 after the installation of two new CNC machining centres costing  
£0.9 million. In Aalborg 2006 will see an expansion in assembly space. 
Output from both plants has already been assisted by an increase in sub-contract, 
particularly in the case of Aalborg where more machined stainless steel 
castings have been purchased from China.
The Singapore business is exposed to a limited extent to increasing bronze 
prices stemming particularly from the copper content. Since these are suffered 
also by competitors the impact is mitigated, but for some long lead time 
contracts the business is unable to secure supplies of bronze ingots as far 
ahead as required by the delivery. It is estimated that the cost of bronze ingot 
inﬂation in 2005/06 was no more than £150,000.
WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
Turnover rose to £18.8 million (2005: £14.3 million). Operating proﬁt rose to 
£2.9 million (2005: £2.2 million). The increase was driven by sales of advanced 
membrane bioreactor and conventional sewage treatment systems for the 
cruise sector, for a superyacht and for the second of the Type 45 destroyers  
for the Royal Navy. £1.0 million of the turnover increase arose from a high 
pressure compressor business which falls within the responsibility of 
wastewater systems management. It is a mature niche product range which 
ﬁnds application in the exploration and production of oil and gas offshore and 
on land. In total its sales were £4.0 million of that accounted for within the 
wastewater systems product group.
The rate of building of new cruise ships moved further into its recovery phase. 
For larger cruise ships over 60,000 gross tonnes the rate of delivery is expected 
to rise from four in 2005 to an average of twelve annually through the period 
from 2008 to 2012. Some of these ships will be ﬁtted with conventional waste 
treatment and others with advanced membrane treatment. The Group expects 
that the proportion of the more expensive advanced system will increase in 
the latter part of the period. Hamworthy’s intention is to retain its share of 
wastewater systems on these cruise ships at around 50% and that ﬁgure is 
borne out by the orders for wastewater systems so far placed for cruise ships 
on order. 
The Group continues to maintain a leading market share on the ships ordered 
by all parts of the Carnival Group, the world’s largest cruise line. An important 
breakthrough was to obtain the ﬁrst order on a Royal Caribbean cruise ship  
for retroﬁt of an advanced system. The order was obtained and the contract 
concluded during the year. Royal Caribbean is carrying out retroﬁt of its ﬂeet 
and the Group believes it can obtain a respectable share of this business 
following a successful ﬁrst contract.
The high volume small wastewater business for merchant vessels continues to 
grow with unit sales up to 490, 15% above the prior year. This success is based 
on high quality, low cost production from the Suzhou facility of the Group 
which now manufactures all wastewater systems and the majority of inert  
gas systems. This facility increased its output by 33% above the prior year.
THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group intends to seek formal accreditation to environmental standard  
ISO 14001 for all sites during 2007/08. As a pilot the site at Moss, Norway  
will undergo ﬁnal assessments to this standard during 2006/07 . During 2005/06 
there were no notiﬁable environmental impacts at any Hamworthy site. 
Solid progress was made to achieve the target of gaining accreditation to  
the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001) for all 
Hamworthy manufacturing sites before the end of 2006/07 . Three sites will 
complete their ﬁnal external assessment this summer with the other sites 
being completed by the autumn. The health and safety performance of each 
site is continually reviewed and compared with the industry benchmark.  
During the year there were no fatalities or major injuries on any site.
Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 08 Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 09 ACQUISITION
The Group is now seeing increased prospects for selective acquisitions. 
Given the satisfactory growth rate achieved organically management is not 
under pressure to conclude an acquisition which is not strategically desirable 
and sensibly priced. 
PROSPECTS
The Group is well positioned to continue growing strongly, exploiting its global 
presence and innovation capabilities to target higher growth market segments 
or entirely new market opportunities. The Group’s highly qualiﬁed, experienced 
and dedicated employees provide a key foundation for its continued growth.
The strength of the current order book gives us conﬁdence that the results  
for the new year may exceed the Company’s expectations. In addition, the 
Company intends, in due course, to complement organic growth by strategic, 
well priced acquisitions.
KELVYN G DERRICK
Chief Executive
Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 08 Hamworthy plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005/06 09
MARKET LED INNOVATION
With an excellent understanding of our markets, strong customer 
relationships and an ability to innovate and develop technologies, 
Hamworthy is well positioned to understand its customers 
and anticipate their needs so as to deliver the right product at 
the right time.
Hamworthy is working closely with progressive Norwegian liquid 
natural gas (LNG) ﬂeet operator Höegh LNG to develop a new 
regasiﬁcation system for a niche market developing in the growing 
natural gas distribution infrastructure.
The shuttle and regasiﬁcation vessels (SRVs) operated by Höegh 
LNG will be ﬁtted with an innovative vaporisation technology 
making it possible to regasify LNG on board at an offshore 
terminal from which the gas is then sent onshore via a pipeline. 
Objections based on environmental and safety considerations 
make it increasingly difﬁcult to ﬁnd suitable onshore locations 
and to obtain permissions to build traditional LNG receiving 
terminals. SRVs and offshore receiving terminals offer a safe 
and environmental alternative.
