 Chief Executive’s strategic review
06 Hamworthy plc
I came to Hamworthy plc in September 2007 with high
expectations and those expectations have been more than
fully met.The Company has a well respected brand and has
delivered impressive returns to shareholders since flotation
in 2004. I am pleased to say that I believe we have both the
opportunities and the capability to continue to deliver sustained
earnings growth and enhanced shareholder value. Company overview Business review Governance Accounts
07 Hamworthy plc
Our goal is to continue to deliver enhanced
shareholder value through long-term earnings
growth and we have a new strategy in place
to deliver this.
Our Group strategy
I have visited all of our operations worldwide and
met with many of our employees and customers.
I have also undertaken a strategic review of the
business and implemented a thorough strategic
planning process throughout the Group.The purpose
of this process is to ensure that we have the best
information available to inform the development of
our Group strategy and to involve our key people in
determining the changes we will need to make to
continue the success of the Group.
Our goal is to continue to deliver enhanced
shareholder value through long-term earnings growth.
Our strategy to deliver this is outlined below.
Balanced business in long-term growth markets
In order to protect our shareholders against individual
market cycles, we aim to have a balance of earnings
across a number of specialist markets. In doing so
we target markets with long-term growth prospects.
Our main market today is the new building of
specialist ship types, predominantly oil and gas
carriers and cruise ships. Looking forward, we are
putting increased focus on growing our position in
related markets with different cycles with particular
emphasis on oil and gas production. We are also
increasing our aftersales services across our whole
range of existing and new businesses. In addition to
maintaining a balanced business we believe these
markets will deliver higher margins and thus improve
Group returns.
Leadership through market-led innovation
We aim to be market leaders in our target market
segments.We achieve this leadership by having a deep
understanding of our customers’ needs and responding
quickly to those needs by developing innovative
solutions both for today and in the future. Developing
world-class solutions is crucial to our continued growth
and we plan to increase our investment in research and
development to achieve this.
Operational excellence
We are putting increased emphasis on margin
enhancement through improved operational
efficiency throughout our businesses.This spans
the introduction of new processes for project
management, continued development of lean
methodologies in our manufacturing plants and
expansion of our Group sourcing capability in China.
By putting more focus on operational effectiveness
we believe we will improve our returns to
shareholders and fund an increased level of
investment in research and development.
Flexible cost base
We aim to reduce our fixed cost base by focusing on
the parts of our value chain where the most value is
added. In doing this we will have a structure which is
better able to flex with market demand and also
minimise the invested capital in the business.
Acquisitions
We have a strong track record of organic growth and
we expect this to continue. We will seek acquisitions
to augment this growth by buying new technologies,
gaining access to new markets or enhancing market
positions for our existing businesses.
We recognise that any strategy is only as good as
the people who implement it. Hamworthy has a
highly skilled and experienced workforce and we are
implementing a more formal talent management
process to develop and grow that skill base across
the Group. We continue to believe we have an
exceptional team capable of delivering the strategy.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
Group strategy
Balanced businesses
in long-term growth markets
Leadership through
market-led innovation
Operational excellence
Flexible cost base
Acquisitions
