 12
Chief Executive’s review
Hamworthy has achieved another record
financial performance and we have made
good progress in achieving our strategic
objectives. The Group has delivered strong
growth in profits, improved operating margins
and continues to achieve healthy rates of
profit-to-cash conversion. Operating profit
grew by 42.3% to £23.2 million, partly due
to exchange rate movements during the year.
On a constant currency basis operating profits
grew by 26.0% compared to 2008.
Hamworthy plc Business review
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
Hamworthy_13082AR 2009_p12_p33:Layout 1  10/6/09  13:57  Page 12 13
Company overview Business review Governance Accounts
Operating margins improved to
9.1% (2008 restated: 7.0%) with
particularly strong performance
from the Pump Systems and
Water Systems businesses.
Order intake slowed in the second half of the year as
our markets felt the impact of the deterioration in world
economic conditions. As a result order intake for the
full year decreased by 22.1% to £177.6 million
(2008: £228.1 million) and the closing order book reduced
by 16.5% to £260.4 million (2008: £311.8 million).
The performance of the individual businesses is reviewed
in the divisional review on pages 22 to 29. The Group’s
Aftersales business operates with a matrix structure, with
capability embedded in each of the operating businesses
and a common network of service centres to provide the
highest level of in-service support to our customers. Aftersales
revenue grew by 23.8% to £36.3 million (2008: £29.3 million),
the constituent parts of which are included in the divisional
revenues on pages 22 to 29.
Strategy
A year ago I outlined our Group strategy, explaining
how we will deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
We have made good progress on the key aspects of this
strategy, a summary of which is given on page 15.
In particular we have achieved successes in the key elements
of improving operating margins and expanding our business
into markets outside new shipbuilding. We have focused
on growing in the offshore and aftersales service markets
and as a result have achieved a better balance to the Group
with significant growth in both areas. In the year 58%
of Group order intake in the financial year 2009 was in
areas outside new shipbuilding, compared to less than 20%
two years ago. We have improved operating margins in
three of our four businesses through a focus on improving
operational efficiency. Whilst some of the margin
improvement in the year was due to beneficial product mix,
we remain on course to achieve our target of sustainable
double digit operating margins.
We continue to increase investment in research and
development across the Group. In the period this investment
increased by 53% to £2.9 million. Our development efforts
are focused on ensuring that we have leading technologies
to maintain our market leading positions and developing
new solutions to meet new market opportunities.
We have made two acquisitions during the year to expand
our technology base. We acquired a majority stake in Baltic
Design Centre in November 2008 which brings both ship
design capability and access to lower cost highly skilled
engineering talent in Poland. Baltic Design Centre has been
integrated into our Gas Systems business. Greenship BV ,
which has developed a leading technology for ballast water
treatment systems for the marine market, was acquired in
March 2009. Such systems will be required to be fitted
to all ships by forthcoming international environmental
legislation. Greenship has been integrated into the Water
Systems business.
Health, Safety and Environment
The safety of our employees is of the highest priority.
Whilst having the correct policies and procedures is important,
safety is also about how people think and act. Our goal is
to eliminate injuries by continually seeking safer workplaces,
processes and behaviour. We have increased our activities
over the past year to raise the awareness of health and
safety throughout the business and have established safety
performance as one of our Key Performance Indicators
(‘KPIs’) as set out on page 21.
The Group takes seriously its responsibilities to the
environment. All principal sites are now compliant with
Environmental Standard ISO 14001 and many of its products
help customers to reduce the impact of their operations on
the environment.
Prior year adjustment
As reported in our half year report for the six months
ended 30 September 2008, the Group has corrected an
overstatement of inventory value in the Inert Gas Systems
business historic accounting. The prior year adjustment
announced at the time has been confirmed and details are
contained in note 5 to the financial statements. The board
confirmed that this was an isolated incident and has taken
action to strengthen the internal controls across the Group
and prevent recurrence.
Hamworthy plc
Hamworthy_13082AR 2009_p12_p33:Layout 1  10/6/09  13:57  Page 13 14
Chief Executive’s review continued
Markets
The Group operates in a number of specialist markets
predominantly within the oil and gas sector. We target
markets that have long-term growth characteristics, driven
largely by environmental legislation, investment in oil and
gas production and the need to transport gas from the
point of production to the point of consumption.
Whilst our markets have these long-term growth characteristics,
they are not immune to the effects of the current challenging
economic environment and we have seen a slowdown in
ordering activity in many of our markets.
The new shipbuilding market in particular has been affected
by both the deterioration in world economic conditions and
the lack of available finance. Although build activity remains
high and shipyards have significant order books there have
been very low levels of new vessel ordering across all ship
types since October 2008. The level of cancellations seen in
our specialist markets is relatively low and we have suffered
a reduction in our order book of only 1.6% as a result of
cancellations since October 2008.
The Group has experienced strong demand during the
period from the offshore market, in particular for FPSOs and
semi-submersibles. These projects are typically on multi-year
development cycles and therefore tend to be less sensitive
to short-term economic volatility. Enquiry levels for projects
within this sector continue to be robust. However, it is
apparent that some offshore projects are experiencing
delays in part due to an expectation of future deflation
in construction costs.
The field population of the Group’s products continues
to grow and as a result demand for the aftersales market
remains steady.
Outlook
Despite the lower order intake in recent months, the Group
enters the new financial year with a sizeable and robust
order book, giving good near-term visibility and sales
coverage. In addition our Aftersales business, which
operates on short lead times, continues to have steady
order intake. The Board is therefore confident of meeting
expectations for financial year ending 31 March 2010.
We are not immune to the effects of the current economic
slowdown and we expect market conditions to be challenging
for all of our businesses in the year ahead, particularly
with regard to order intake. We have carried out a detailed
scenario and contingency planning exercise to ensure that
we are ready to adjust our cost base to match market
demands if and when this becomes necessary. As a result
of this work we have already taken action to reduce costs
including headcount reductions in our Gas Systems business
of 25% and in Hamworthy Serck Como of 11% as it is
clear that these businesses will have lower activity levels
in the coming year.
In the medium-term we expect the offshore market
to remain healthy but activity levels to fall in the new
shipbuilding market as the current low levels of
contracting for new vessels flow through to deliveries.
In the longer term the Group has exciting growth prospects
with a range of significant new market opportunities driven
by new environmental legislation and increasing demand
for energy and its transportation, in particular LNG. We
remain committed to investing in developing world leading
technologies in order to exploit these future opportunities.
With a strong balance sheet and high rate of profit-to-cash
conversion, measured on a three year average, the Group
expects to strengthen its market positions during the current
challenging economic conditions and be well positioned to
capture new growth opportunities as they arise.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
Hamworthy plc Business review
Growth drivers
Economic drivers:
3 Growing demand for energy
3 Increasing geographic dislocation
3 Move towards natural gas
Environmental drivers:
3 Increasing environmental legislation
3 Increasing environmental awareness
Our markets
3 Gas transportation and production
3 Oil transportation and production
3 Cruise ships
3 Merchant shipping
Hamworthy_13082AR 2009_p12_p33:Layout 1  10/6/09  13:57  Page 14
