 Business review
Company overview Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
6 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Chief Executive’s review
Revenues were underpinned by both a robust order book 
as we entered the year and continued solid performance 
from our Aftersales business through the period. 
Nevertheless revenues were impacted by the weakness in 
our end markets and decreased by 15.2% to £214.3 million 
(2009: £252.8 million). The beneficial effect of exchange 
rate movement on translation was £10.9 million of 
revenues. On a constant currency basis and excluding 
acquisitions made during the year revenues decreased 
by 20.1%. 
Operating profit decreased in line with revenue by 15.2% to 
£19.5 million (2009: £23.0 million). On a constant currency 
basis and excluding acquisitions made during the year 
operating profit decreased by 13.4%.
As a result of our strategic drive for margin improvement 
through operational excellence and swift actions to 
reduce costs where necessary, we maintained a healthy 
operating margin of 9.1% (2009: 9.1%) whilst increasing 
our investment in research and development by 33.7%. 
The Pump Systems business again performed strongly with 
increased margins compared to the previous year, offsetting 
lower margins in the Gas Systems business.
Order intake was significantly impacted by the weakness in 
our end markets, in particular for newbuild projects in both 
the marine and offshore segments. As a result total order 
intake fell by 44.3% to £99.0 million (2009: £177.6 million).
The performance of individual businesses is reviewed 
in the divisional review on pages 16 to 23. Aftersales 
activities across the Group continued to perform well 
with order intake increasing by 2.6% to £36.8 million 
(2009: £35.9 million) and revenue increasing by 2.8% 
to £37.3 million (2009: £36.3 million). The constituent 
parts of the Aftersales revenue are included in the 
divisional revenues.
“As a result of our strategic drive 
for margin improvement we 
maintained a healthy operating 
margin of 9.1%, whilst increasing 
our investment in Research 
and Development.”
  Joe Oatley 
Chief Executive
The Group has faced extremely challenging market conditions throughout the year 
and the robust financial performance is both a reflection of the strength of our 
business model and a credit to our employees who have been able to continue 
to develop the business despite these difficult markets. Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
7 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Company overview
Business review Chief Executive’s review
Strategy 
We have continued to make good progress on the 
implementation of each of the key elements of our strategy:
Balanced business in long-term growth markets
We are expanding the business into related markets outside 
the marine newbuild segment that has been the historical 
core of the Group. In so doing we are seeking to achieve 
a greater sectoral balance to the Group and the sustained 
weakness in the new shipbuilding market has served to 
confirm the importance of this strategy. We target markets 
that exhibit strong long-term growth prospects with our main 
focus for expansion being upstream oil & gas, aftersales and 
opportunities driven by the need to meet new environmental 
legislation in the marine and offshore markets. We have 
expanded our technology offering in both the upstream oil 
& gas and environmental markets during the year both by 
acquisition and organic development. We have continued 
to develop our Aftersales business and strengthened the 
Group executive committee with the recruitment of a Group 
Aftersales Director to lead this business across all divisions. 
Whilst sales to the marine newbuild market fell by 27% 
compared to the prior year, sales to markets outside new 
shipbuilding remained at the same level and now represent 
50% of total Group sales (2009: 42%).
Leadership through market-led innovation
We seek to achieve leading market positions in our chosen 
sectors and to support this we continue to increase our 
investment in research and development across the Group. 
This investment focuses on not only the development of 
new products but also the improvement of our existing 
products as both are key to the long-term success of the 
business. In the period, investment in internally-funded 
research and development grew by 33.7% to £3.9 million. 
Every division increased research and development expenditure 
as a proportion of sales and we have continued to invest 
in the technologies brought into the Group through 
acquisition over the last year. 
Margin improvement through operational excellence
Operating margins, cost efficiency and operational excellence 
remain a key focus. Despite lower turnover and an increase 
in research and development expenditure, Group operating 
margin remained at 9.1%. Good progress was made during 
the year in improving our operational effectiveness, in 
particular in procurement where we have strengthened our 
low-cost sourcing team located in China and introduced 
a group-wide category management system for our key 
components and materials. This will enable us to realise the 
benefits of our scale in procurement whilst maintaining the 
flexibility of our decentralised operating structure. 
 
We have continued our process of moving operations 
from European countries to our manufacturing locations 
in Asia where they are both closer to our main customer 
base and enjoy lower costs. During the year we transferred 
the manufacture of the Dolphin range of pumps from the 
UK to our plant in Singapore where it has been integrated 
with the existing centrifugal pumps manufacturing facility. 
We established the capability for order processing and 
contract management in our facility in China to enable the 
transfer of these activities from our Inert Gas business in 
Norway which is planned for completion during 2010.
We achieved the milestone of securing the land for a 
new 15,000m
2
 manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China, 
to replace our existing plant in this region. Construction 
work is now well underway with production scheduled to 
commence at the new site during the summer of 2010. 
This investment cost less the compensation for the release 
of the existing site is expected to result in a net addition 
to tangible fixed assets of £3.8 million when complete. 
In the year to 31 March 2010 the Group has paid out 
a net amount of £1.1 million. 
In response to the weakness in our end markets, we 
developed a group-wide plan in January 2009 that set 
out detailed cost reduction actions specific to each of 
our businesses. Since each of our businesses has differing 
market exposure and order book coverage the timing and 
scale of these cost reduction actions varies across the Group. 
In addition to the headcount reductions carried out in 
March last year in our Gas Systems business in Norway and 
Water Systems business in Germany, we have taken further 
steps to reduce costs in all four of our divisions during the 
last year. Since January 2009, we have reduced employee 
numbers across the Group by 17%, with the majority of this 
being carried out in the last financial year. In all cases we 
have been careful to ensure that we achieve our targeted 
cost reduction whilst maintaining our core capabilities. 
We have maintained our programme of both capital and 
research and development investment which are key drivers 
for our future growth.
These collective cost reduction actions and operational 
efficiency measures will help to support our margins against 
any pricing pressures emerging as a consequence of the 
current economic climate.  Business review
Company overview Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
8 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Strategy (continued)
Strategic acquisitions
We seek to complement our organic development with 
strategic acquisitions, both to expand our technology base 
and to strengthen our market positions. During the year 
we completed two acquisitions. On 29 September 2009 
we acquired the business and assets of Krystallon Limited. 
Krystallon Limited has developed a leading technology 
for systems to address the emerging market for marine 
sulphur emissions reduction. On 30 September 2009 
we also completed the acquisition of the Technology & 
Products division of Aibel AS. This business provides leading 
technologies for the upstream oil & gas industry and 
expands the Group’s presence in this target market.
We continue to be active in the search for strategic bolt-on 
acquisitions and, supported by our strong balance sheet, 
expect that these will continue to form an important part 
of the development of the Group in the years ahead. 
Health, safety and environment
We have invested in a group-wide commitment to 
improving our safety culture and I am delighted to be able 
to report good progress on our goal to eliminate injuries 
by continually seeking safer workplaces, processes and 
behaviour. We record both lost-time accidents and near 
misses where a potentially unsafe event occurred but no 
injury was sustained. We have implemented a process of 
reporting and sharing lessons learned from both accidents 
and near misses around the Group and thus prevent 
recurrences. As a result of these efforts, we have reduced 
the rate of lost-time accidents by 51% and the number of 
days lost due to accidents from 264 to 85.  
 
 
We are very conscious of the environmental impact that 
our activities may have on the communities in which we 
operate and we constantly strive to minimise the effect 
of this. The Group’s policy of gaining accreditation under 
the ISO 14001 environmental standard at all our principal 
sites was achieved during the year. Furthermore, many of 
our products have a direct environmental benefit and they 
are often designed to ensure that our customers can meet 
relevant environmental legislation.
Employees
We recognise that this has been a difficult year for many 
of our employees given the reduced headcount across all 
our operations. This has been handled in as professional 
and sensitive a way as possible and it is credit to all of our 
people that our operations have not suffered from any 
disruption whilst these reductions have been implemented. 
Where possible we have sought to control costs through 
temporary layoffs and unpaid leave in order to minimise 
the effects on individuals.
We remain committed to the development of our people 
and have introduced this year the Hamworthy Leadership 
Development Programme which will provide a foundation 
for the development of our leaders and managers of 
the future.
It is with great sadness that I inform you that on 1 June 2009 
a Hamworthy employee tragically lost her life when Air France 
flight 447 from Rio de Janeiro was lost at sea. Laura Rahal 
worked for our Gas Systems business in Norway and is very 
much missed by her colleagues and family.
We have invested in a group-wide commitment to 
improving our safety culture and I am delighted to be able 
to report good progress on our goal to eliminate injuries 
by continually seeking safer workplaces, processes 
and behaviour.  Business review Governance Accounts Additional information
9 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2010
Company overview
Business review Chief Executive’s review
Markets
The Group strategy is to target markets that have long-term 
growth characteristics driven, in particular, by increasing 
environmental legislation and the need for production 
and transportation of oil & gas. However, a number of 
our market segments do show shorter-term variability and 
have been adversely affected by the global economic crisis. 
The new shipbuilding market has been particularly weak 
with very low levels of new vessel ordering since October 
2008. Whilst we have seen some increase in enquiry 
levels from parts of the new shipbuilding market in recent 
months, particularly from the cruise ship and LPG carrier 
segments, these have not yet translated into an increase 
in the rate of order intake.
Contracting of new FPSO projects for the offshore market 
has also been very low in historical terms, partly due to 
expectations of deflation in construction costs for these 
projects. Construction costs for offshore projects have 
now fallen and with oil prices stable at a level supportive 
of deepwater offshore investment, we are starting to see 
offshore projects passing final investment decisions and 
moving ahead. Enquiry levels from this sector remain high.
From a geographical perspective, the Brazilian market 
represents a significant growth opportunity for the Group 
driven by the local investment plans both for offshore 
vessels and supporting oil tankers and gas carriers. 
The Group is currently bidding on a number of contracts 
to supply equipment onto all of these vessel types.
Demand for our Aftersales products and services has been 
steady throughout the year despite falling freight rates and 
lower than normal vessel utilisation. The field population 
of Hamworthy equipment continues to grow, providing a 
solid underpin for the demand for our aftermarket products 
and services.
Outlook
As expected, order intake for original equipment has 
been subdued throughout the year and as a result we 
enter the new financial year with a reduced order book 
compared to recent years. Nevertheless the current order 
book of £142.1 million provides good visibility for the year 
ahead. In addition our Aftersales business continues to 
perform well. The board is therefore confident of meeting 
expectations for the financial year ending 31 March 2011.
We expect that we will continue to manage costs to 
reflect lower activity levels and this, combined with our 
commitment to operational excellence, will help to support 
margins in this difficult economic environment.
Our markets for original equipment, and in particular the new 
shipbuilding market, continue to be challenging. Whilst we 
have seen some improvement in ship ordering activity in the 
last few months, it is too early to say when market conditions 
will return to more normal levels and when this will translate 
into an increase in the rate of ordering of original equipment 
of the types supplied by Hamworthy. The underlying 
macroeconomics driving an increase in demand from the 
upstream oil & gas sector are strong and we expect that this 
will drive a recovery in this market, although the timing of any 
upturn remains difficult to predict.
The development of some of the new environmental market 
opportunities such as ballast water treatment and exhaust 
gas cleaning is driven by a defined legislative timetable 
and these developing markets are expected to provide 
substantial opportunity for growth in the medium to long 
term. The Group continues to broaden its range of growth 
opportunities and has substantial balance sheet strength to 
support both its organic and acquisitive growth strategies.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
