 Business review
Hamworthy plc Annual report 2011 6
• Breakthrough orders won  
for offshore pumps and cargo 
handling systems for small 
gas carriers
• Strong performance from 
Aftersales with record order 
intake, up 23% to £45 million
• Operation in Suzhou,  
China moved to a new, 
state-of-the-art 15,000m
2
 
manufactuing facility
Key information
Operational highlights
The Group has made good progress through the year in maintaining  
a strong position in our core market sectors as they recover, and in  
growing market share in a number of the key markets targeted as part  
of our growth strategy. 
 A record order intake enabled the 
Group to rebuild the order book at 
year end to £258.1 million, 81.7% 
higher than at the previous year end.
  Joe	Oatley
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review
As a result, order intake improved significantly to £290.5 million, up 193% on 
2010 (2010: £99.0 million). Particularly strong order intake performances were 
achieved by our Oil & Gas Systems business with a near ten-fold increase on 2010 
and our Pump Systems business that reported order intake up 172% on 2010. 
This strong order intake enabled the Group to rebuild the order book at year end 
to £258.1 million, 81.7% higher than at the previous year end (31 March 2010: 
£142.1 million).
Revenue was impacted by the market weakness in the prior year that led to a 
reduced order book as the Group entered the year. As a result, revenue decreased by 
15.3% to £181.6 million (2010: £214.3 million) with all divisions seeing a reduction 
in activity compared to the prior year. The performance of the Group improved as we 
progressed through the year and as a result of the strong order intake, revenue in the 
second half of the year was 18.5% higher than in the first half.
Group underlying operating margin reduced to 7.6% (2010: 9.2%) with this 
reduction largely driven by the strategic decision to maintain our technical and 
operational capability in our Oil & Gas Systems business, despite very low levels 
of revenue in the first half of the year, coupled with a significant increase in research 
and development investment across the Group. Within the Oil & Gas Systems 
business, the second half underlying operating margin improved to 6.3% as 
revenue increased. The Pump Systems business continued to perform strongly with 
underlying operating margin close to the high level achieved in the previous year.
The performance of individual businesses is reviewed in the divisional review on 
pages 20 to 27. Aftersales activities across the Group continued to perform well 
with order intake increasing by 23.1% to £45.3 million (2010: £36.8 million) and 
revenue increasing by 9.9% to £41.0 million (2010: £37.3 million). The Aftersales 
business is run as a matrix organisation and the constituent parts of the Aftersales 
revenue are included in the divisional revenues.
O r d e r 	 i n t a k e
£290.5m
2010: £99.0m
C l o s i n g 	 o r d e r 	 b o o k
£258.1m
2010: £142.1m Business review
7 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2011
The Group’s operations in Suzhou, China moved into a 
new 15,000m
2
 manufacturing facility in January 2011 
to replace our existing smaller plant in the same region. 
This new facility currently carries out the assembly and test 
of the Group’s waste treatment and inert gas products and 
it is planned that it will also provide the capacity for the 
assembly of many of the Group’s new products. The facility 
supplies both to the local market in China and to the wider 
global market.
Strategy
Hamworthy continues to follow a robust and clear strategy 
with four key elements:
• expand the business into adjacent markets with 
long-term growth characteristics;
• invest in research and development to achieve and 
sustain leadership positions in key target markets;
• improve margins through operational excellence; and
• expand the technology base and market positions of the 
Group through strategic acquisitions.
We have made good progress during the year in growing 
the business in markets adjacent to the marine newbuild 
market that has been at the historical core of the Group. 
In particular the Group has significantly improved its 
position in the upstream oil & gas market, winning a 
breakthrough order for deepwell cargo pumps for a series 
of eight newbuild FPSOs to be deployed in Brazil and 
successfully commercialising the acquired VIEC oil/water 
upstream separation technology, winning orders for this 
product for oil production platforms in the North Sea, 
Brazil and the Middle East.
We continue to focus on developing our Aftersales business 
and have established Hamworthy Services as a global brand 
giving our customers consistently high levels of support 
wherever they are in the world. The Group has secured 
a number of long-term support agreements with key 
customers and expanded its service offerings to include 
products such as control system upgrades and operator 
training in addition to our more traditional spares and 
service capabilities. The Aftersales business achieved record 
levels of orders and sales in 2011.
Whilst growing in adjacent markets, Hamworthy aims to 
maintain its strong market positions within the marine 
newbuild market and we target the expansion of our market 
share in marine newbuild sectors that have long-term 
growth prospects. The Group achieved particular success 
in establishing a strong position in the small gas carrier 
market: following two small initial contracts won in the 
prior year, the Oil & Gas Systems business was successful in 
winning two significant contracts to provide cargo handling 
systems for small gas carriers, one series of which will be 
constructed in China and the other series of vessels in Brazil. 
These two contracts were of an aggregate value in excess of 
£70 million and securing them establishes Hamworthy as a 
leading player in this sector.
Once again the Group has increased research and 
development investment both to improve the ongoing 
competitiveness of our existing products and also to 
ensure that we are well placed to exploit new market 
opportunities as they arise. Total Group internally-funded 
research and development grew by 23.0% to £4.8 million 
with the most significant investments being made in 
expanding our range of products for the upstream oil & 
gas market and developing solutions for the emerging 
environmentally-driven markets of exhaust gas cleaning and 
ballast water treatment. Both of these markets are expected 
to provide significant medium-term opportunities for the 
Group and some early success has already been achieved 
with the exhaust gas cleaning product, securing a four 
shipset commercial order and a contract for a system to be 
fitted to a container vessel as part of a trial supported by the 
US Environmental Protection Agency.
Business review Chief Executive’s review
A balanced business in 
long-term growth markets 
We aim to achieve a balance of earnings across 
specialist sectors within the oil & gas, marine 
and service markets, targeting investment  
in areas with long-term growth prospects.
Leadership through 
market-led innovation 
We seek to be leaders in our chosen sectors 
and invest in new technology development  
to both strengthen our existing market  
positions and develop solutions to  
meet new opportunities.
Strategic acquisitions
We are targeting strategic acquisitions 
 to extend both the technology base and 
market positions of our existing businesses.
Operational excellence  
and a flexible cost base
We will achieve sustained margin  
improvement through a focus on operational 
efficiency and effectiveness. We outsource lower 
added-value parts of the manufacturing chain, 
maintaining a flexible cost base and minimising 
invested capital.
Strategy 
Hamworthy 
continues to follow 
a robust and clear 
strategy with four 
key elements Business review
Hamworthy plc Annual report 2011 8
F l a r e 	 g a s 	 r e c o v e r y
150bn
cubic metres of gas are  
wasted annually
B a l l a s t 	 w a t e r 	 t r e a t m e n t
40,000
ships affected by ballast water 
legislation
O f f s h o r e 	 p u m p i n g 	 s y s t e m s
1.8bn
barrels of oil need to be 
discovered annually
E x h a u s t 	 g a s 	 c l e a n i n g
1.2m
tonnes of untreated exhaust 
gas is emitted by ships  
every hour
A broad range of growth opportunities
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Strategy	(continued)
We continue to focus on improving cost efficiency though our drive for operational 
excellence. Good progress was made in both reducing procurement costs and 
increasing manufacturing efficiency which mitigated the effect on Group underlying 
operating margin of the lower level of revenue and the increased investment in 
research and development. These cost efficiency improvements have also enabled 
the Group to offset the effects of increasing raw material costs and instances of our 
competitors pricing more aggressively as they attempt to rebuild their order books.
As part of the establishment of the new manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China, the 
Group has implemented a new management and operating methodology based on 
the latest techniques for lean manufacturing. This is now being used as the blueprint 
to be rolled out across the other main manufacturing sites across the Group. During 
the year we completed the transfer of the order processing and contract management 
for our marine inert gas systems products from Norway to our facility in China.
The Group’s acquisition strategy is based on targeting specific businesses that 
will complement our organic development by expanding our technology base 
and strengthening our market positions in key target markets. The focus during 
the last year has been on increasing the pipeline of acquisition opportunities we 
are pursuing and this increased portfolio of acquisition prospects gives the Group 
confidence that it will be able to successfully complete a number of strategic 
transactions in the near future.
Health, 	 safety 	and 	environmental
Hamworthy continues to invest in its group-wide commitment to improving its 
safety culture. Both lost-time accidents and near-misses, where a potentially unsafe 
event occurred but no injury was sustained, are recorded and investigated. During 
the year a process was implemented that enabled and encouraged the sharing of 
lessons learned from both of these types of incident in order to prevent recurrences. 
Despite this focus it is disappointing to report an 11% increase in the number of 
lost-time accidents compared to the prior year, although the severity of accidents 
has reduced, with the total number of days lost during the year due to accidents 
falling by 18% to 70. These accidents have all been investigated in detail both 
in order to prevent recurrence and also to ensure that there was no common 
underlying cause. Hamworthy will continue in its efforts to eliminate injuries across 
the Group by continually seeking safer workplaces, processes and behaviour.
The Group is mindful of the environmental impact that its activities may have 
on the communities in which it operates and strives to minimise the effect of 
this. All of Hamworthy’s principal sites are accredited under the ISO 14001 
environmental standard. Furthermore, many of its products have a direct 
environmental benefit and they are often designed to ensure that its customers 
can meet relevant environmental legislation.
Employees
Last year was a difficult year for many of our employees within the Group 
given the reduced headcount across its operations. The workforce is now being 
increased in some parts of the Group in order to meet the recent growth in our 
order book commitments, in some cases re-employing those affected by previous 
layoffs. This is a testament to the professional and sensitive way the headcount 
reduction was handled.
The Group remains committed to the development of its people and we continue 
to invest in our group-wide Leadership Development Programme that provides a 
foundation for the development of our leaders and managers of the future.
Hamworthy’s core values (page 30) play an important role in the way our 
employees behave and in the way performance is measured. We measure our 
management not only on quantitative results but also on commitment to these 
core values. We believe that behaving in line with our core values is an important 
element of achieving long-term sustained performance. Business review
9 Hamworthy plc Annual report 2011
The Group remains committed to the development of  
its people and has continued to invest in our group-wide 
Leadership Development Programme that provides a 
foundation for the development of our leaders and  
managers of the future.
Business review Chief Executive’s review
Markets
2010 witnessed a recovery in several of the Group’s markets, 
although the pattern of demand was uneven, with some 
segments of the new shipbuilding market showing only 
slight improvement in the rate of new vessel contracting 
from the lows seen in 2009.
The offshore market has rebounded strongly, in particular 
for FPSOs, with 23 newbuild and conversion projects 
reported during 2010. Of these, eight newbuild FPSOs 
are destined for the development of Brazil’s pre-salt finds 
in the Campos basin. Deepwater offshore investment 
continues to be supported by high oil prices and the 
need to replace falling production from existing fields. 
This market remains a key area of focus for Hamworthy’s 
business development efforts.
Within the shipbuilding market, contracting activity for small 
gas carriers recovered strongly, with a more modest increase 
for larger gas carriers as ship owners took advantage of 
falling newbuild prices at major yards. The volume of new 
contracting of tankers, although substantially ahead of 
the lows seen in 2009, nevertheless remained relatively 
subdued, in particular for smaller product and chemical 
carriers. Demand for larger oil tankers is being supported 
by China where new vessels are being contracted primarily 
for domestic owners. Hamworthy is well positioned in this 
market with a strong reference list and a long-established 
sales and manufacturing presence.
Demand for the Group’s LNG regasification systems has 
increased substantially during the year, in particular from 
Asia where natural gas is increasingly being seen as an 
attractive fuel for power generation.
The field population of Hamworthy equipment continues to 
grow and we have seen strong demand for our Aftersales 
products and services, in particular from the offshore market.
Outlook
Order intake for original equipment has recovered strongly, 
strengthening the order book at the year end and providing 
improved visibility of future revenues. In addition, our 
Aftersales business continues to perform well. As a result the 
Board now believes its previous expectations for the financial 
year ending 31 March 2012 will be significantly exceeded.
The improvement in our end markets, in particular upstream 
oil & gas, and those related to LNG and LPG is encouraging. 
As our business returns to growth we will continue to tightly 
manage our cost base and this, combined with our drive for 
operational excellence, will help us achieve our medium-term 
goal of sustainable double digit group operating margin.
We see a broad range of medium and long-term organic 
growth opportunities for the Group, both within our existing 
markets, driven in particular by increasing investment in 
deepwater offshore oil production and continued growth in 
demand for LNG, and in emerging markets largely driven by 
tightening environmental regulations in the marine and oil 
& gas markets. We are investing in developing solutions to 
meet new environmental regulations, in particular those for 
ballast water treatment and reducing emissions from ships’ 
engines and boilers. In this latter market it is encouraging 
to have received early orders for Hamworthy’s exhaust gas 
cleaning system. 
We have grown the portfolio of strategic acquisition 
prospects under consideration and the Group has 
substantial balance sheet strength to support both 
our organic and acquisition growth strategies.
As a result of the above the Board now looks forward  
with significantly increased confidence.
Joe 	Oatley
Chief Executive
