 2009
Annual Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
The fierce slowdown of global trade and economic 
activity at the end of 2008 triggered huge 
uncertainties in our key customers’ primary markets 
i.e. the oil and gas, construction and automotive 
industries. 
This quickly filtered through the supply chain and in 
Q2 2009, Hardide experienced a rapid deterioration 
in demand as customers radically reined in 
expenditure.  
In March 2009, it was necessary to implement 
a Group-wide cost reduction plan to re-align 
the business to the new market conditions.  
This included the hibernation of the Houston 
manufacturing facility and the temporary move 
of all US production to the UK, a UK redundancy 
programme and a re-evaluation of all discretionary 
expenditure. It was extremely disappointing 
to have to take this action at a time when the 
Hardide technology continues to gain recognition 
as an ‘enabling’ technology by blue chip 
customers operating in multi-billion dollar markets.  
Nevertheless, the sales cycle remains frustratingly 
slow due to the unique nature of the technology and 
the need for stringent and prolonged testing in the 
majority of its current applications. By the end of 
March 2009, all US sampling and production had 
been moved seamlessly to the UK with no loss of 
customers. 
UK: Hardide Coatings Limited
The UK operating company, Hardide Coatings 
Limited, delivered FY 2009 revenue of £1.09 million, 
down 45% from £1.97 million in 2008. The UK 
business was particularly hard hit by depressed 
activity within the oil and gas sector. Lower oil and 
gas prices caused the operating companies to 
reduce expenditure dramatically, cancel projects 
or request price concessions. This squeeze saw 
discretionary drilling being put on hold as the oil 
price in mid-2009 sat at around half the level of July 
2008, when it had peaked at US$147. Together 
with the customer de-stocking issue, this market 
softening was the major contributory factor to the 
2009 revenue drop. No customers reduced orders 
due to dissatisfaction with the Hardide technology or 
service.
The UK business reported a pre-tax loss of 
£324,000, compared with a pre-tax loss of 
£133,000 in the same period last year. While lower 
revenue was not completely off-set by lower costs, 
overheads in the UK were reduced by 38%, mainly 
due to a reduced headcount and a spending 
moratorium.
In February 2009, the management team was 
strengthened by the appointment of Nick King as 
Business Development Manager for UK and Europe.  
He joined from Praxair Surface Technologies Ltd., 
bringing more than 30 years of experience and 
contacts within the surface treatment market. He has 
made a strong impact on the management team, 
helping to shape the future direction of sales and 
market development.
Throughout the year, the operations and engineering 
teams have concentrated on improving delivery 
performance and plant efficiency, using any 
spare capacity to improve general housekeeping 
throughout the shop floor and customer-facing 
areas. This has resulted in increased yields and 
loading capacities, improved plant efficiency via 
Total Productive Management, more robust coating 
practices and standardised methods, and a more 
streamlined enquiry process with full traceability.  
‘On-time’ delivery has improved by 9% while late 
orders have reduced by 37% and the average time 
period for a late order has been reduced by 50%.  
Improved design of furnace tooling for one high 
volume application has led to an increase in yield 
of 150%. Overall the plant has recorded a 17% 
reduction in reworks due to improved process and 
plant efficiencies.  
The Airbus three-year test programme that the UK 
company entered into and reported last year is 
advancing, with samples now undergoing extensive 
corrosion, wear and metallographic testing. Interim 
results are encouraging.
04 2009
Annual Report
05
US: Hardide Coatings, Inc.
The Houston facility reported sales revenue of 
$182,000 in the six months to 31 March 2009 when 
the plant was hibernated, and a FY 2009 loss of 
$1.80 million after accounting for an impairment 
charge. The US business had continued to 
experience an extended sales cycle which, when 
combined with the effects of the depressed oilfield 
services market, meant that it was not possible to 
sustain manufacture in the region without putting the 
entire Group at risk.  
The sales, operations and engineering teams 
worked closely to ensure a seamless transition of 
customers, samples and production parts to the UK.  
This worked well and all customers were retained.  
Lead and sample times have been maintained, 
and in some cases improved, despite shipping. 
The plant remains in place in Houston and will be 
re-opened when the UK reaches capacity and/or 
when US sales are sufficient to support the re-start 
of operations.
Meanwhile, the US continues to play an important 
role, both in current sales and future business 
growth. Two significant new customers, FMC 
Technologies and Flowserve Corporation, were 
gained in H2 2009 in our key sectors of oil and gas, 
and valves respectively. Furthermore, the Group is 
in extensive test programmes with two blue chip 
strategic customers in the region, both customers 
forming cornerstones of our diversification strategy.
Markets
Customer and sector diversification remains a priority 
for the Group. The global economic downturn has 
slowed our progress in achieving this strategic goal 
but we are working to develop new revenue streams 
from existing customers and enter new markets 
with proven applications. Developing these strategic 
relationships with key global customers will position 
us to meet their needs as economic conditions 
improve and embed our technology across a wider 
portfolio of applications.
Our core commercial markets of oil and gas, valves 
and pumps have all been affected by the global 
economy but remain large and profitable. We are 
confident that they will remain central to the Group’s 
growth. The management team is undertaking a 
strategic review to identify and qualify additional 
markets and applications which have the highest 
potential to deliver short term financial returns and 
build a pipeline for a diversified business. This is due 
for completion in early 2010. 2009
Annual Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Health, Safety and Environment
Hardide plc is committed to the highest standards of 
health, safety and environmental policy and practice.  
The Group recorded no lost time accidents during 
the reporting period and achieved a record 350 days 
without an entry into the accident book.  
The Group has continued to develop and improve 
its quality systems and methods throughout the 
year. A stage 2 AS9100 audit is planned for the 
new calendar year. If successful, this will replace 
the current ISO 9001 standard and support the 
continued progress of Hardide in the aerospace 
market.
Technology, Research & Development 
The Applications Development Committee (ADC) led 
by Dr Yuri Zhuk, Technical Director, has continued 
to make good progress throughout the year. The 
committee was formed last year to evaluate, 
prioritise, manage and monitor the development 
of new applications in both the UK and US. The 
ADC works on a rotation of no more than twelve 
key applications that are scored for technical and 
commercial potential before being selected for 
development and testing. Last year, the development 
of variant coatings for diamonds and titanium were 
identified as key projects for R&D resources.  
In March 2009, the Group was pleased to announce 
that it had successfully developed a process to 
enable the Hardide coating of titanium. Tests are now 
underway in the UK and US with blue chip customer 
partners. This is a significant breakthrough for the 
coating of a high-performance metal commonly used 
in the aerospace, defence, motorsport and general 
industrial applications.  
Testing is continuing on the new variant coating for 
diamond with three customer partners in the UK 
and US. This application is for a new and patented 
tungsten carbide Hardide coating that offers an 
unprecedented combination of adhesive and 
protective properties. Improved tool performance 
and durability is expected to offer impressive cost 
savings to customers. The results are promising 
although scale-up and commercialisation will require 
capital investment.
06
Hardide Coatings has secured its 
first order from leading global energy 
services supplier FMC Technologies 
(NYSE:FTI) following approval of its 
proprietary tungsten carbide-based 
metal coating. 
Hardide worked closely with FMC 
to engineer an innovative design 
and technological solution.  We are 
pleased to add FMC Technologies, 
a technologically innovative and 
leading energy services company, to 
our portfolio of blue chip oil and gas 
customers.
Customer approved press release issued 
May 2009 
“
” 2009
Annual Report
During the year, a new coating, Hardide-A was 
developed as a substitute for hard chrome plating 
which is under threat from EU REACH and other 
similar environmental regulations worldwide. Hard 
chrome plating is widely used in the aerospace 
sector and many blue chip companies including 
the major aircraft manufacturers have launched 
programs to identify and develop new coatings to 
replace hard chrome. Hardide-A matches the key 
characteristics of hard chrome plating including 
hardness and thickness, and outperforms the 
material in some key protective properties. Hardide-A 
is currently under test and evaluation with two 
leading European high-tech companies.
Outlook
Our outlook at the start of the new financial year 
is cautious but stable. In the short term, a key 
determining factor in the timing of our return to 
revenue growth is the timing of the economic 
recovery. When this happens, in particular when oil 
and gas exploration and production expenditure 
returns, as it is beginning to, we are well placed to 
respond rapidly and effectively. We have retained the 
critical infrastructure, people, skills and knowledge-
base to be able to scale up as soon as the markets 
improve. As we enter the new financial year, we 
are seeing signs of stability returning to our key 
customers’ markets and with that, confidence in 
their own operations and in demand for the Hardide 
technology.
I would like to thank our customers for their 
confidence and support, and our employees for their 
commitment during a turbulent year. We have gone 
through a period of retrenchment and consolidation 
but the Group has used the downtime wisely and 
enters the new financial year ready to manage the 
resumption of demand.
Dr Graham Hine 
Chief Executive Officer 
14 December 2009
07
