 2009
Annual Report
Chairman’s Statement
Hardide plc’s results for the year to 30 September 
2009 reflect the economic downturn that has 
affected all the sectors in which Hardide’s key 
customers are operating. 
The Group’s position is in common with that of many 
small manufacturers and has been further affected 
by aggressive de-stocking by major customers. This 
caused a sharp fall-off in orders, beginning in Q2 
2009 as announced.
The Group is reporting FY 2009 sales revenue of 
£1.21 million, a decrease of 43% compared with the 
same period last year (FY 2008 £2.12 million). The 
Group PBT for the year narrowed to a loss before 
tax and exceptional items of £1.46 million, a 16% 
reduction from the pre-tax loss of £1.74 million in 
2008.  
The reduction in demand from our customers, who 
service the oil and gas, construction and automotive 
markets was sudden and sharp, and has been 
followed by a prolonged period of very limited 
visibility of future demand. Swift and significant 
management action was necessary to protect 
the Group’s business and restructure it so as to 
withstand better the effects of the manufacturing 
downturn. In March 2009, the Group announced the 
hibernation of the Houston manufacturing facility, 
a redundancy programme in the UK and a plan to 
significantly reduce costs and conserve cash.  These 
were hard decisions but necessary to create longer 
term stability and preserve a solid foundation from 
which the Group can re-build as markets improve.  
In total, these actions delivered an annualised cost 
saving of £650,000, which resulted in an EBITDA 
loss for the year of £1.12 million, broadly similar 
to the FY 2008 EBITDA loss of £1.09 million.  The 
hibernation of the Houston facility resulted in an 
exceptional impairment charge of £364,000.
In May 2009, the board announced that it was 
undertaking a review of its strategic options to further 
ensure the future of the Group. This culminated in 
fund-raising that was completed in July 2009 and 
raised £1,566,200 of new funds with a further £1 
million of loans being converted into new ordinary 
shares at the placing price. The new money covered 
working capital needs, the further development of 
Hardide’s patented diamond coating technology 
and the continued development of the US market. 
The board acknowledges and thanks the major 
shareholders for their continued faith and support, 
and their further investment in the Group.
In light of the new market conditions, in late Q4 
2009, the management team, supported by the 
board, began a further strategic review to revisit 
previous analysis and assumptions of key markets 
and applications with the highest potential for the 
Hardide technology. This is an in-depth process 
and due for completion in early 2010. Initial findings 
support the current strategic plan but the review is 
expected to lead to a plan to deliver short-term sales 
revenue and a diversified and robust business.
While the Group’s growth has been badly affected 
by the wider economic climate, the board remains 
confident in the technology, its potential for new 
applications with existing customers and in new 
markets, and in the recovery of demand.  Post-
period, the Group has received positive indications 
from key customers that demand will rise over the 
course of the next calendar year. 
I would like to thank all staff, shareholders and 
members of the board for their support and 
continuing confidence in the Group during this 
difficult year. Thanks are also due to David Mott, who 
retired from the board in March 2009, for his sound 
advice and guidance as a Non-Executive Director 
since the earliest days of Hardide.
Robert Goddard 
Chairman 
14 December 2009
02 2009
Annual Report
03
Hardide Coatings has made a significant technological breakthrough 
by successfully developing a new Hardide coating process specifically 
for titanium.  The company has successfully coated its first titanium 
components for customers in the UK and US, and components 
manufactured from titanium can now benefit from the unique wear, 
abrasion and chemical resistant properties of Hardide.
The ability to coat titanium with Hardide will open up a range of new 
possibilities for engineering design. 
Hardide press release issued March 2009
“
”
