 2010
Annual Report
 
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report an improved performance 
by Hardide plc in a year that continued to present 
considerable challenges.  The resumption in demand 
from key customers together with new business, 
reduced costs and minimal capital expenditure has 
enabled the Group to exceed management forecasts 
across all of our financial metrics.
Full year sales to 30 September 2010 rose 44% 
to £1.74 million from £1.21 million in 2009.  Group 
EBITDA loss decreased 87% to £141k (2009: loss 
£1.12 million) with the Group EBITDA positive in 
the second half of the year.  Group PBT for the year 
narrowed to a loss before tax and exceptional items 
of £381k, a 74% reduction from a loss of £1.46 
million in 2009. 
 
There has been a general recovery in demand from 
those of our customers who service the oil and gas 
drilling tool and flow control markets, with H2 2010 
being markedly stronger than H1 2010.  Customer 
restocking that was in evidence during H1 2010 has 
stabilised and been replaced with broadly consistent 
demand.  To assist the forecasting of potential 
future destocking situations, the board is continually 
monitoring various indicators to help predict sudden 
fluctuations in demand.
The improvement in demand in key sectors 
has been supported by a stabilised cost base, 
ongoing operational efficiencies and negligible 
capital expenditure. The full year effect of last 
year’s restructuring and cost reduction programme 
together with further savings has led to a 30% 
reduction in overheads compared with 2009. Strong 
revenue growth coupled with tight control on costs 
and capex has led to a reduction in our cash outflow 
compared with 2009. The Group’s ability to grow 
within its current markets was not restricted by these 
controls.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is pleasing to report that Hardide Coatings Limited 
achieved its first full year of profitability with a pre-tax 
profit of £378k compared with a loss last year of 
£324k.  The UK business has demonstrated that 
it can be profitable at the current, stabilised cost 
base.  We are beginning to build a more diversified 
customer base, with new customers won across all 
key sectors and new products coming to market, 
such as Hardide-A for hard chrome replacement and 
a coating for titanium. Our strategic development 
projects of coatings for aerospace and industrial 
diamonds are also progressing steadily.
The Houston facility remains hibernated with all 
plant and equipment in-situ. This will remain so until 
demand is such that it is economically viable to 
resume manufacturing in the US.  The building has 
been sub-let on terms that will enable a managed re-
entry; although further expenditure would be required 
for the facility to operate profitably as an independent 
business.
The US hibernation contributed significantly to a 24% 
reduction in the cost of sales on the 44% increased 
turnover fulfilled wholly from the UK.  Volume through 
Houston was such that it had always operated 
sub-optimally, and greater economies of scale are 
now being achieved by servicing all US business 
from the UK. The US is a very important market for 
the growth of the Group and business development 
continues apace with notable account gains and 
test programmes with US based customers across 
all of our key sectors.  The Group is committed to 
re-opening the US operation when it is commercially 
and economically prudent to do so.  
In line with the new edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the board has tightened and 
streamlined several aspects of its operation, 
without any increase in bureaucracy or impediment 
to decision making. The board also established 
intellectual property and risk management sub-
committees to manage these key aspects of the 
Group’s business.
02
New business, reduced costs 
and minimal capital expenditure 
has enabled the Group to exceed 
management forecasts
“
”
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   2 3/12/10   16:41:55 2010
Annual Report
On the whole, the board is pleased with the results 
for the year.  Whilst the economic climate overall 
has not yet materially improved in all the sectors 
in which the Group operates, there are indications 
that demand will continue to return and then grow 
in these areas.  Meanwhile, the business has clear 
strategic goals, is operationally and financially fitter, 
and sharply focused on profitable revenue growth.  
The board is optimistic in its outlook for the coming 
year. 
Over the past year, the company has had loyal 
support from its staff and constructive interest from 
a number of key shareholders.  The board owes its 
sincere thanks to both.
Finally, Hugh Smith, our longest serving non-
executive director has decided to step down from 
the board at the next AGM.  We are all enormously 
grateful to Hugh for his unstinting and constructive 
work on behalf of the company, particularly on the 
two main board sub-committees.  Hugh remains an 
avid supporter of Hardide and intends to retain his 
shareholding for the foreseeable future.  We shall 
miss Hugh’s wise counsel but wish him and his 
family well and hope to see him at future AGMs.
Replacing Hugh as a non-executive director and 
member of both the audit committee and the 
combined remuneration and nomination committee 
will be Bruce Robinson (50).  Bruce brings extensive 
experience of growing technology-based businesses 
and of the international oil and gas industry.  He 
spent his early career as an engineer in oilfield 
services before becoming a founder shareholder and 
General Manager of Phoenix Petroleum Services, an 
engineering product and service company that was 
sold to Schlumberger.  He has since started, run 
and assisted a wide range of innovative companies 
developing and exploiting technologies in various 
industry sectors.
Robert Goddard 
Chairman
03 December 2010
03
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   3 3/12/10   16:42:07
