 2010
Annual Report
 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
As we entered the 2010 financial year there was still 
a high level of uncertainty about the economy and 
the effect it would continue to have on our business. 
We had begun to see signs of stability returning to 
key customers’ markets but there was little visibility 
of the timing and level of recovery. Towards the 
end of the half year we began to see a consistently 
upward trend in demand, particularly from oil and 
gas, and then valve and other general industrial 
customers. At that point it was difficult to distinguish 
sustainable demand from the effects of restocking. 
However, the second half of the year saw a 
meaningful return of demand together with new 
customer gains.  I am pleased to report that this, 
together with cost and capex controls, has resulted 
in the first full year of profitability for the UK operating 
company and the first half year of positive EBITDA 
for the Group.
In spite of the turbulence over the last 18 months, 
we have retained experienced people across all 
parts of the business and this has enabled us 
to increase activity seamlessly as demand has 
resumed.  The engineering, operations and technical 
teams have worked on process improvements, 
loading capacities and coating methodologies, which 
all supported the move to profitability for the UK 
business.
UK: Hardide Coatings Limited
The UK operating company, Hardide Coatings 
Limited, has achieved full year profitability for the 
first time with PBT of £378k (2009: loss £324k) 
on revenue of £1.74 million (2009: £1.09 million).  
Sales to oil and gas, valve and general industrial 
customers were all higher than in 2009.  Gas costs 
rose significantly during the year but were absorbed 
without affecting gross margin.
The UK facility is processing all sales from the US 
with no detrimental effect on lead time.  We have 
gained new customers in the US during the year and 
since year-end have contracted an experienced and 
well-connected representative in the US to pursue 
new business.
We were proud to achieve AS9100 quality system 
approval in February 2010.  AS9100 demonstrates 
the presence of a robust and consistent aerospace 
quality system and augments the ISO9001 standard 
by focusing on the more rigorous requirements of 
the aerospace industry.  Many original equipment 
manufacturers will only work with AS9100-registered 
suppliers and this accreditation demonstrates our 
commitment to quality and to the aerospace industry.
In July 2010, Robin Gillham joined the management 
team as Business Development Manager focusing 
on flow control. Robin returned to Hardide having 
previously worked for the company for four years to 
2008 as Sales Manager. He is a valuable addition 
to the management team having almost 20 years of 
engineering and technical sales experience and a 
thorough understanding of the Hardide technology.
Throughout the year, the engineering team has 
steadily improved production efficiency.  One 
innovation is the design of small chambers that work 
within the main coating bell but use less consumable 
material, thereby enabling more efficient coating 
of smaller batches or smaller parts.  The team 
has also been looking at ways of coating longer, 
internal surfaces. Success here will open up further 
opportunities in new and existing markets.
Across the company, a greater emphasis is being 
placed on enhancing personal performance and 
KPIs are being drawn up for all functions.
All health, safety and environmental matters are 
important to the Group and we recorded no lost time 
incidents during the year.
04
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   4 3/12/10   16:42:09 2010
Annual Report
05
Following extensive testing, Hardide has been applied to Weatherford 
International Ltd’s Expandable Sand Screen (ESS
®
) / Expandable 
Zonal Isolation (EZI™) expansion tool roller bearing. Initial deployments 
proved that the coating would provide excellent wear characteristics 
and improved friction benefits over the existing system. Following 
modifications to the bearing pins, Weatherford’s sand control group has 
experienced trouble free coating applications to the pins and outstanding 
performance.  The coating has provided a significant contribution in tool 
reliability to allow completions to be run in deep wells and also over long 
production zones of over 2000ft of continuous ESS
®
.    
Hardide Enhances Weatherford Expandable Sand Screen Tooling
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   5 3/12/10   16:42:13 2010
Annual Report
06
 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Markets
The management team, supported by the board, 
completed an in-depth strategic review of markets 
and applications for the Hardide technology in H1 
2010.  The process resulted in a comprehensive 
plan to create a profitable and diversified business.  
Throughout the year, progress has been made with 
diversifying our customer base.  We are pleased to 
have secured business with several significant flow 
control, and oil and gas industry customers.  We 
are particularly excited about the launch of a new 
Hardide-coated application by a major US valve 
manufacturer. The customer’s product line has 
proven successful and is set to expand in 2011 
with a second line under development.  In Europe, 
another Hardide-coated application has been 
developed for a major valve manufacturer requiring 
a hard-wearing, low-friction coating for subsea 
deployment.  One of the issues that we continue to 
face is the reluctance of our customers to allow us to 
disclose their names or their use of the coating.  We 
understand that this is due to the high value that they 
place on the competitive advantage that the coating 
provides.
Technology, Research & Development 
Headed by Dr Yuri Zhuk, Technical Director, the 
technical team has made a strong contribution to 
our diversification strategy over the year providing 
valuable analysis of the viability of potential 
applications and leading test programmes for 
several significant new applications.  These have 
included new types of pumps, equipment for plastics 
extrusion, Formula 1 automotive parts and mud 
motors for the oil and gas industry.  
Tests were also carried out to provide additional 
information on the bond strength, porosity and 
fatigue performance of the coatings.  Independent 
comparative tests were made of Hardide A and two 
other coatings as replacement materials for hard 
chrome plating; a material widely used in aerospace 
manufacturing and which is being phased out for 
environmental reasons.  The results of all the tests 
have been positive, with the Hardide coatings 
demonstrating that they are unique in the level and 
combination of valuable properties that they provide.
An IP sub-committee was formed to optimise 
the Hardide IP protection within reasonable cost 
parameters.  Several national patents, which are 
not expected to be used, were abandoned, which 
also resulted in cost savings.  In addition to cost 
rationalisation, this committee also considers how 
the IPR portfolio should be protected and makes 
recommendations to the board accordingly.
Both the aerospace and diamond coating projects 
continue to make steady progress with our customer 
partners.
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   6 3/12/10   16:42:17 2010
Annual Report
07
Chief Executive Offi cer’s Review continued
Staff
Our staff have been extremely supportive and hard 
working over the past two diffi cult years.  Most of 
them have not received a salary increase but, as a 
result of better than expected results, I am delighted 
that we have been able to award a modest bonus 
to all employees who have been with us over the 
course of the last year.
Outlook
At this early stage of the 2010/11 year, we are 
encouraged by the improving conditions in our 
customers’ core markets.  However economic 
uncertainties remain and our target is to improve 
on 2009/10 performance and show strong revenue 
growth and positive cash generation.  We have 
a good development pipeline and our strategic 
projects are progressing to plan.  All projects under 
development have been benchmarked against our 
strategic goals and pre-qualifi ed.  This helps provide 
confi dence that a good proportion will be converted 
to sales.  Furthermore, our more diverse customer 
base means that we are becoming less vulnerable to 
a downturn in demand from one customer or in one 
sector.  These factors support the view that we can 
meet our expectations for a further improvement in 
trading over the coming year.  
Our employees, customers and shareholders 
continue to demonstrate their confi dence in the 
technology and the business and I thank them for 
their commitment.
Dr Graham Hine
Chief Executive Offi cer
03 December 2010
The UK operating company, 
Hardide Coatings Limited, 
has achieved full year 
proﬁ tability for the ﬁ rst time
“
”
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   7 3/12/10   16:42:19 2010
Annual Report
08
Hardide coated hybrid hydrodynamic/hydrostatic radial 
and thrust bearings have been used by the major US pump 
and steam turbine design and repair specialist in 8-stage 
and 6-stage high-performance centrifugal pumps that are 
designed for high temperature refinery service.  At the 
product temperature of 450˚F (230˚C) both the octane and 
diesel have poor lubricity.  Alfred Conhagen’s concern in 
both applications was entrained solids and thermal growth 
of the close clearance components.  The Hardide coated 
bearings have now been in service for three years during 
which time they have experienced some moderate-to-
severe solid ingestion, yet the coated bearing surfaces 
remain in excellent working condition with a number of 
parts showing no signs of wear at all.
Hardide Pump Success For Alfred Conhagen, Inc.
Hardide-AR-2010-v4.indd   8 3/12/10   16:42:21
