 4 Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report 2007
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
Overview
2007 was another successful year for our growing 
company. The Board remained focused on executing 
the Company’s strategy of creating shareholder 
value through the de-risking of the Company’s Indian 
exploration portfolio, whilst continuing production from 
its development assets.
The year commenced with the announcement of the Ganesha discovery on 
the Hardy-operated CY-OS/2 exploration block on the east coast of India.  
This was followed by the announcement in May of the Dhirubhai 33 gas 
discovery on the GS-01 exploration block on the west coast of India.
The Company completed a further placing of new Ordinary Shares in June 
raising over $40.2 million to fund our ongoing capital programme at  
423 pence per share.
2008 has also started well, with the recent announcements of two 
consecutive discoveries on the D3 exploration block on the east coast 
of India and the expansion of the Company’s exploration portfolio with 
the granting of a petroleum exploration licence for the AS-ONN-2000/1 
onshore block in Assam, India.
“Our exploration success 
in India underpins 
our strategy to create 
shareholder value through 
high impact exploration 
interests and mitigating 
risk through appropriate 
partnerships.”
E. P. Mortimer
Chairman 5 Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report 2007
Corporate
During the year, the Board took the decision to move the listing of Hardy’s 
shares from AIM to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange’s market 
for listed securities (‘Main Market’). The admission of Hardy’s shares to 
the Main Market should assist in increasing the profile and liquidity of the 
Company’s Ordinary Shares whilst increasing access to capital to fund its 
future exploration and development expenditures.
Hardy’s shares began trading on the Main Market on 20 February 2008 
and with effect from 26 March 2008 Hardy’s shares have been included in 
the FTSE 250 index.
The senior executive team has been strengthened with the appointment 
of Mr Dinesh Dattani in July 2007 as Finance Director. Mr Dattani’s strong 
financial background in the upstream oil and gas industry provides greater 
balance to the executive team. We will continue to look for appropriate 
additions to strengthen the Board and the senior management team.
Outlook
We will continue to work closely with the Ministry of Petroleum and key 
industry groups, in connection with the Government of India’s recent 
intervention in gas pricing and proposed modification to the tax holiday,  
to help ensure that our interests and those of all operators in India  
are protected.
Over the past decade the oil and gas industry in India, in partnership with 
the Government, has invested heavily in various midstream and upstream 
projects. In 2008, the first gas production from the Reliance Industries 
Limited (Reliance) operated D6 block adjacent to the Company’s D9 
block in the Krishna Godavari basin will commence . This will significantly 
increase the supply of gas into the energy-constrained Indian market.  
The infrastructure and market development associated with this east  
coast domestic gas supply augurs well for the rapid exploration and 
development of the D3 and D9 blocks in the Krishna Godavari basin,  
in which Hardy has an interest.
The Board looks to the balance of 2008 with great anticipation. In 2008, 
the Company is planning for the largest drilling programme in its history, 
with six exploration wells and up to two appraisal wells. Our asset base 
has also increased in India with the addition of the Assam block providing 
further long-term growth potential. The Company is in excellent shape and 
we are enthusiastic about the year ahead.
E. P. Mortimer
Chairman  
9 April 2008
“We have made an encouraging 
start to 2008 with the moving 
of our share listing to the Main 
Market of the London Stock 
Exchange and two discoveries  
on the D3 block. “
