 08
Hardy Oil and Gas plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
“ In 2010, Hardy will focus on 
maintaining key relationships and 
enhancing its regional technical and 
operational expertise.”
 Yogeshwar Sharma, Chief Executive Officer
With an active exploration drilling programme and 
adequate cash reserves, the year 2010 should provide 
the Company with an enhanced understanding of the 
geology of the Krishna Godavari Basin and clarity on 
the future resource potential of Hardy’s promising D3 
and D9 exploration blocks. 
Execution of Strategy
The Company remains committed  
to its India focused strategy with  
a mandate of creating significant 
long-term shareholder value through 
the exploration and appraisal of its 
existing exploration portfolio. With the 
unprecedented volatility of the global 
economic landscape and mixed results 
from the exploration and development 
drilling, 2009 proved to be a 
challenging year on several fronts.
Given India’s robust economic growth 
and attractive upstream fiscal and 
regulatory regime, the Company 
continues to view India as an excellent 
investment opportunity for upstream 
oil and gas activity. In 2010, Hardy will 
focus on maintaining key relationships 
and enhancing its regional technical 
and operational expertise.
Exploration Highlights
The highlight of Hardy’s 2009 
exploration programme was the  
drilling of two deep water wells on the 
Company’s Krishna Godavari Basin 
blocks. The third successive discovery 
on the D3 block has re-enforced our 
expectations for this block and the 
Company anticipates the completion 
of the phase one exploration drilling 
programme, and the advancement of  
a comprehensive appraisal programme 
for the existing discoveries Dhirubhai 
39, 41 and 44, in 2010.
The first well on the Company’s D9 
block (KG-D9-A1) did not provide  
the anticipated results. In conjunction 
with the operator, Hardy is currently 
incorporating the data from this well  
to refine the next three exploration well 
locations on this block. We expect  
to provide an updated geological 
assessment of this block prior to the 
re-commencement of the 
drilling programme.
In 2009, Hardy completed two seismic 
acquisition programmes: 1,150 km
2
 of 
3D seismic data was acquired over the 
east portion of the D3 block and 390 
line km of 2D seismic data was 
acquired over the onshore Assam 
block. With the acquisition on  
D3, the Company now has 3D  
seismic coverage over the entire  
D3 concession.
The Company continued to work with 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural 
Gas and Directorate General of 
Hydrocarbons (‘DGH’) to confirm an 
extension of the CY-OS/2 block prior 
to commencement of the appraisal 
programme for Hardy’s Ganesha 
non-associated natural gas discovery.
In the absence of a resolution in our 
favour in the near future, Hardy intends 
to refer the dispute for sole expert or 
conciliation and arbitration.
Appraisal of the Dhirubhai 33 discovery 
(GS-01) continued in 2010 with further 
geological and geophysical studies.
Resource Potential
The Company has received third party 
reports by Gaffney Cline & Associates 
Ltd and RPS Energy, evaluating the 
reserves and resources of the Group’s 
assets. The general findings of these 
reports are summarised on pages 76 to 
80 of this report.
The full reports can be found on the 
Company’s website www.hardyoil.com.
Development and Production
During 2009, the Company’s oil 
production was 0.56 MMstb 
compared with 0.93 MMstb for 2008. 
The reduction was a result of a six 
month, unplanned, shut-in of the  
PY-3 field. The field re-commenced 
production in January 2010 at an initial 
gross rate of 3,336 stbd. For 2010, 
the PY-3 field is forecast to produce  
at an average rate of 3,000 stbd.
The drilling of an additional lateral  
well, via the re-entry of the producing 
PY-3-PD4 well was completed in 
February 2009. With the assistance  
of a nitrogen lift, the well flowed at 700 
stbd of oil with 30 per cent water-cut. 
However, the well could not be 
reactivated as a self flowing well.  
The well has been completed and 
suspended with a gas lift valve to allow 
for future oil production when gas lift 
compression facilities are installed on 
the floating-point unit (‘FPU’).
In 2009, the joint venture negotiated  
a one year contract extension to the 
PY-3 production facilities effective 
24 January 2010, at a 40 per cent 
reduction in day rate.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 09
Hardy Oil and Gas plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
PY-3 joint venture partner approval  
to drill two more production wells is 
expected in the first half of 2010 with 
drilling to take place in the first half 
of 2011.
Financial Highlights
Revenue was down from $17.3 million 
in 2008 to $7.7 million in 2009 
principally due to an unplanned 
extended shut-in of the PY-3 field. 
Administrative expenses were down  
by 9 per cent compared to 2008, 
resulting in an operating loss of 
$8.1 million in 2009 compared with an 
operating loss of $1.7 million in 2008.
The Company started 2009 with cash 
reserves of $30.0 million. Net cash used 
in operating activities was $1.0 million. 
Cash used for investing activities 
amounted to $13.5 million in 2010  
for the drilling of PY3-PD4-RL, KGV- 
D3-S1, KGV-D3-G1, KG-D9-A1 wells 
and additional seismic on the D3 and 
Assam exploration blocks. An equity 
issue in April 2009 resulted in net 
proceeds of $15.4 million augmenting 
our working capital. As a result, the 
Company’s cash reserves at the end  
of 2009 were $30.5 million. The 
Company remains in a positive financial 
position and has no long-term debt.
Key Partnerships
Hardy continued to work closely  
with strategic partners in India. The 
Company interacts on a regular basis 
with its partners at multiple levels, to 
ensure that our goals and objectives 
are addressed and to facilitate 
planning of upcoming work 
programme schedules. Maintaining 
open and substantive relationships 
with existing partners and other key 
stakeholders in the India upstream  
oil and gas sector are critical to the 
execution of the Company’s strategy.
2010 Programme
As mentioned earlier, the third 
successive discovery on our D3 block 
has enhanced expectations as we 
anticipate the completion of the phase 
one exploration drilling programme 
through the drilling of three further 
exploration wells. As announced on 6 
April 2010 the Company has 
commenced drilling of the fifth 
exploration well on the D3 Block. The 
KGV-D3-W1 is targeting several high 
amplitude anomalies in the Pliocene 
and Miocene geological horizons. The 
well is approximately 20 km south east 
of the Dhirubhai 39 and 41 discoveries.
The timing of re-commencement  
of the D9 three well exploration drilling 
programme will be subject to the 
completion of ongoing data analysis 
and updating of the geological model. 
We anticipate drilling to re-commence 
in the second half of 2010 and 
continue into 2011. 
Hardy is enthusiastic about the balance 
of 2010, as it continues its efforts to 
de-risk the exploration portfolio in  
the Krishna Godavari Basin in India 
through further exploration drilling.  
Our disciplined capital allocation 
strategy will deliver activities that have 
the potential to result in a significant 
increase in shareholder value. Beyond 
the Company’s existing portfolio, the 
Company will continue to evaluate and 
assess potential acquisitions in India 
via its New Exploration Licence Policy 
(‘NELP’) bidding rounds and other 
conventional means that offer material 
value creation opportunities that will 
complement our existing assets and 
organisational competencies.
Staff
2009 was a challenging year for the 
Company and we would not have  
been able to see it through without  
the dedication of our staff in India, 
Nigeria and the United Kingdom.  
Our India team continues to drive  
the core of our business and we  
will look to continue to retain and 
enhance our technical, operational  
and management expertise in this 
region. In 2010 we look to our staff to 
perform at a high level in the execution 
of our 2010 work plan and beyond.  
I would like to take this opportunity  
to acknowledge their important 
contributions in the past year.
Yogeshwar Sharma
Chief Executive Officer
9 April 2010
BUSINESS
REVIEW
GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
COMPANY
INFORMATION
GROUP
OVERVIEW
