 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 / Hardy Oil and Gas plc 08
India is an excellent 
investment opportunity  
for upstream oil and  
gas activity.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Overall our efforts in 2010 resulted in a number of 
positive developments including a significant turnaround 
in the Company’s financial results, the disposal of our 
Nigerian assets, and the drilling of two deepwater 
exploration wells resulting in a natural gas discovery. In 
2011, we will continue to build on this positive 
momentum with further exploration drilling in the 
Krishna Godavari Basin and secure partner approval to 
set in place PY-3 development drilling in 2012.
Execution of Strategy
As a result of the disposal of our Nigerian assets in October 
2010, the Company is now fully committed to its India focused 
strategy with a mandate of creating significant long-term 
shareholder value through the exploration and appraisal of our 
existing exploration portfolio. With India’s robust economic 
growth and attractive upstream fiscal and regulatory regime, the 
Company continues to view India as an excellent investment 
opportunity for upstream oil and gas activity.
The highlight of 2010 was the fourth consecutive natural gas 
discovery on the Company’s D3 asset in the Krishna Godavari 
Basin. Substantial independent evaluation and interpretation 
activities on D3 were undertaken by the Company in 2010.  
This independent work and continued drilling success have 
heightened our enthusiasm for the substantial prospectivity of 
the D3 exploration licence. Although we have four discoveries  
to date, we remain in the relatively early stages of exploration  
as there are many untested play types and an expanding 
prospect inventory.
The submission of declaration of commerciality on two blocks 
(D3 & GS-01) is further endorsement of our India focused 
strategy of de-risking our exploration assets and minimise the 
time cycle from discovery to development.
Maintaining and enhancing the Company’s technical and 
commercial competencies is an integral component for the 
successful execution of our strategy. In this regard, we were 
pleased to announce the appointment of William Satterfield as 
Technical Director of HEPI. Mr Satterfield has extensive 
international upstream exploration, production and business 
development operating experience and has made a positive 
impact on our organisation. We will continue to look to enhance 
our organisation’s core technical, financial and commercial 
competencies to maintain the Company’s platform to capture 
the growth and value creating opportunities unique to India’s 
upstream sector.
“ Although we have four discoveries on D3, we remain 
in the relatively early stages of exploration as there 
are many untested play types and an expanding 
prospect inventory.” 
Yogeshwar Sharma, Chief Executive Officer Company 
Information
Financial 
Statements Governance
Business
Review Overview
Hardy Oil and Gas plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09
Exploration Highlights
The highlight of our 2010 exploration programme was the 
drilling of two deep water wells on the Company’s Krishna 
Godavari Basin blocks. As a result, the Company announced 
the fourth consecutive natural gas discovery (Dhirubhai 52) on 
the Company’s D3 exploration block in the Krishna Godavari 
Basin. In February 2011, the Company submitted a proposal for 
the declaration of commerciality of the Dhirubhai 39, 41 and 52 
natural gas discoveries on the D3 exploration block.
The second exploration well on the D9 exploration block 
recorded high percentage of gas while drilling through reservoir 
quality sands, however MDT testing recorded high saturation of 
water and as a result the well was plugged and abandoned. The 
well has proven the presence of a petroleum system on the 
North-Central portion of the block. The cost of this well, following 
MDT testing, was below budget due to efficient drilling.
In July 2010, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs of the 
Government of India approved the grant of a drilling moratorium 
of three years up to 31 December 2010. As a result, the 
exploration phase I for the D3 licence is extended into 2013 and 
the D9 licence can be extended by up to 12 months. The D9 
joint venture has subsequently applied for a six month extension 
in order to complete the minimum work commitment of two 
further exploration wells.
A summary of the report, providing a block by block breakdown, 
is provided on pages 72 and 73 and the complete report can be 
downloaded from Hardy’s website www.hardyoil.com.
Development and Production
During 2010, the Company operated PY-3 field produced 
1.15 mmbbl of oil compared with 0.56 mmbbl for 2009. 
The increase in production is principally attributable to the 
uninterrupted production from the field and better than 
expected performance of the field water flood.
The PY-3 field re-commenced production in January 2010 
(following an unplanned six month shut-in) at an initial gross rate 
of 3,336 bbld and the field averaged 3,156 bbld (net: 568 bbld) 
through the year. For 2011, the PY-3 field is forecast to produce 
at an average daily rate of 3,100 bbld (net: 558 bbld).
The PY-3 production facilities are currently contracted through 
April 2011 and we are working closely with our partners and 
contractors to establish a longer-term arrangement for the 
offshore production facilities. This approval is expected in 
conjunction with the budget approval to drill two additional 
production wells in 2012.
Reserves
Total net proven plus 
probable (2P) oil reserves 
amount to 2.1 mmbbl 
(2009: 2.5 mmbbl). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contingent 
Total net contingent gas 
resources amount to 174 
bcf (2009: 158 bcf). Total 
net contingent oil resources 
amount to 0.2 mmbbl  
(2009: nil).  
 
Resources 
Prospective (Gas)
*
Total net risked best 
estimate gas prospective 
resources for D3 increased 
to 396 bcf (2009: 387 bcf). 
The total net risked best 
estimate gas prospective 
resources for D9 decreased 
to 466 bcf (2009: 520 bcf). 
Prospective (Oil)
**
 
Total net risked best 
estimate oil prospective 
resources for D9 was 
unchanged at 18 mmbbl.  
 
 
 
Resource potential: the Company has provided an updated CPR, undertaken by GCA, 
effective 31 December 2010. Set out below is a summary of the highlights of the report:
* The 2009 comparable estimates do not include volumes associated with Hardy Oil 
(Africa) limited which was sold during 2010.
**  Aggregated risked prospective resources have been derived by Hardy and are not 
aggregated or provided as risked volumes by GCA. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 / Hardy Oil and Gas plc 10
Financial Highlights
As a result of sustained production from PY-3, the Company 
sold 192 mbbl of oil at an average price of $81.71 per bbl 
resulting in operating revenue of $12.9 million. As a result, 
Hardy enjoyed an increase in net cash generated from 
continuing operations from a deficiency of $3.6 million in 2009 
to a surplus of $4.0 million, a turn-around of $7.6 million.
Key Partnerships
In 2010, Hardy increased its proactive involvement with 
respect to our non-operated assets, working closely with 
our strategic partners in India, contributing independent 
assessments in conjunction with collaborative dialogue. The 
Company interacts on a regular basis with its partners at 
multiple levels, to ensure that our goals and objectives are 
addressed and to facilitate planning of upcoming work 
programme schedules. Maintaining open and substantive 
relationships with existing partners and other key stakeholders 
in the upstream oil and gas sector in India are critical to the 
execution of the Company’s strategy.
In early 2011, it was announced that BP will become a joint 
venture partner with Hardy and Reliance in both of our Krishna 
Godavari Basin blocks and the Assam block. At the time of the 
announcement, Reliance described BP as one of the finest 
deep water exploration companies in the world. They bring 
considerable additional skills and resources, backed by a 
quality research and development group, to our partnership. 
The combined skills of our companies will be focused on finding 
and developing more hydrocarbons in the deep water blocks of 
India and significantly contributing to India’s energy security. 
We welcome BP and look forward to working with them and 
Reliance on our joint venture projects in the future.
2011 Programme
In 2011 we expect to drill at least two wells, one on each of 
our Krishna Godavari Basin blocks. As mentioned earlier, the 
fourth successive discovery on our D3 block has enhanced 
expectations of this promising block. Further seismic 
processing is required over the toe-thrust area (north east) 
prior to drilling in this area. The processing is expected to be 
ongoing through the first half of 2011. 
As a result of the four consecutive discoveries that have been 
made on D3, this block now singularly stands out as the premier 
asset of Hardy. We have identified 26 prospects or leads with 
an average size of 233 bcf. We remain in the early stages of 
exploration on this block and with six different play types 
present; we view this asset with great optimism. 
We firmly believe in the prospectivity of the D9 Block and 
although the KG-D9-B3 well was plugged and abandoned, 
we are encouraged that the well encountered reservoir quality 
sand and provided evidence of a working petroleum system. 
Hardy looks forward to recommencing drilling operations on 
this block during the second quarter of 2011.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
BP’s participation is an 
endorsement of the quality 
of our exploration assets  
in India. Company 
Information
Financial 
Statements Governance
Business
Review Overview
Hardy Oil and Gas plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
“ This year, our India team will be relied upon 
to drive the core of our business and we will 
look to continue to retain and enhance our 
technical, operational and management 
expertise in this region.”
We currently have submitted declaration of commerciality 
proposals on two blocks – D3 and GS-01. These are under 
review with the GOI and we expect to work closely with the 
operator to advance these projects in 2011.
For the Company’s two operated assets, we are focused on 
securing budget approval for the development drilling programme 
proposed for the PY-3 field. Budget approval will need to be 
secured by mid 2011 to meet our objective of commencing 
drilling in 2012, and upgrade the production facilities to include 
artificial lift to extend the field life. The CY-OS/2 arbitration 
process is ongoing and further activity on this block is deferred 
until the arbitration tribunal has made its ruling.
Overall we are enthusiastic about 2011, as we continue our 
efforts to de-risk our exploration portfolio in the Krishna 
Godavari Basin in India through further exploration drilling. We 
are committed to continue with our disciplined capital allocation 
strategy by focusing on activities that have the potential to 
deliver a significant increase in shareholder value.
Beyond the Company’s existing portfolio, the Company will 
continue to evaluate and assess potential acquisitions in India 
that offer short to medium term production additions and 
complement our existing assets and organisational 
competencies.
Staff
The Company made good progress in 2010 and we have 
generated some positive momentum leading into 2011. This 
can, for a large part, be attributed to our staff in India and the 
United Kingdom. The Group has demonstrated a tremendous 
level of dedication and commitment, having continued to 
work professionally and efficiently to meet our objectives in 
a challenging environment. In 2010 we were successful in 
recruiting some key individuals into our senior management 
team and we will endeavour to compliment them with additional 
mid-level technical and commercial expertise through 2011. This 
year, our India team will be relied upon to drive the core of our 
business and we will look to continue to retain and enhance our 
technical, operational and management expertise in this region. 
I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge their 
important contributions in the past year.
Yogeshwar Sharma
Chief Executive Officer
15 March 2011
