 Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
04/05
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
Alasdair Locke 
Chairman
Overview
During 2011, the Company accomplished a number 
of objectives. The exploration programme on the 
Company’s two blocks in the Krishna Godavari 
Basin progressed by concluding the drilling of two 
further exploration wells. As a result of this activity, 
we announced the first gas discovery in the D9 
block. The D3 joint venture submitted a Declaration 
of Commerciality proposal for the Dhirubhai 39, 
41 and 52 discoveries on the D3 block to the 
Government of India (GOI) for review. The 
GS-01 joint venture adopted the Declaration 
of Commerciality proposal for the Dhirubhai 
33 discovery. Discussions are continuing with 
partners and contractors in relation to the PY-3 
field development options. We are pleased with the 
progress made on our D3 exploration block which 
will be the catalyst for value creation during 2013.
We are initiating a comprehensive review of our long-term 
strategic goals and objectives. However, the Company 
remains in a strong working capital position with which 
to fund its planned work activity.
Key financial results
Revenue was down from $13.2 million in 2010 to $11.3 
million in 2011 due to lower production levels (the PY-3 
field was shut-in for five months in 2011) but partly offset 
by the higher average realised oil price. Administrative 
expenses increased to $6.9 million compared to $3.3 
million in 2010. The Company made an operating loss 
from continuing operations of $4.7 million in 2011. 
The Company has made a change to its accounting 
policy by adopting the successful efforts based 
accounting policy for its oil and gas assets in 2011. As a 
result Hardy has restated the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements for 2010. We believe that this change 
aligns our accounting policy with international peers and 
provides a better reflection of the results of our activities 
and financial position.
We are pleased with 
the progress made 
on our D3 exploration 
block which will be 
the catalyst for value 
creation during 2013 Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
On 31 August 2011 Dinesh Dattani ceased to be the 
Finance Director of Hardy. We would like to thank Dinesh 
for his considerable contributions to Hardy over the past 
four years.
At the time of my appointment the Company announced 
Yogeshwar Sharma’s intention to step aside as Chief 
Executive Officer and assume a non-executive role with 
the Company. On 1 March 2012 we were pleased to 
announce the appointment of Ian MacKenzie. Ian has a 
proven track record of delivering results in a competitive 
industry. We are confident that his experience and 
leadership qualities will ensure we are successful in 
implementing the recommendations of the review.
We are grateful to Yogeshwar, one of the founders 
of the Company, for his invaluable contribution over 
many years and we are particularly grateful that he 
will provide continuity in this period of transition as 
a Non-Executive Director.
Prior to my appointment, Ian Bruce and Carol Bell 
had indicated that they did not intend to put themselves 
forward for re-election at the Company’s next Annual 
General Meeting and would retire from the Board of Hardy. 
Ian and Carol have served as Directors for over four and six 
years respectively. On behalf of the Board I would like to 
thank them for their contribution over their tenure.
The Company announced the appointment of Peter Milne 
as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2012. Peter has 
a proven track record in the oil sector having been the 
head of finance for the largest UK headquartered drilling 
contractor for over 15 years. His financial expertise and 
experience will fill a core competency gap. It is intended 
that Peter will be designated the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and assume the Chairmanship of 
the Audit Committee following his re-election at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting.
The Group started 2011 with cash reserves of $36.5 
million. Net cash used in continuing operating activities 
(before changes in non cash working capital, tax paid, 
interest and investment income and finance costs) was 
$0.9 million. Proceeds from option exercise were $2.0 
million. As a result, the Group’s cash reserves at the end 
of 2011 remained unchanged at $36.5 million. The Group 
remains in a strong financial position with no debt.
Our business model and strategy
Hardy creates value through the exploration and 
production of hydrocarbons. In order to explore we 
must first be granted a licence by the Government 
of the countries in which we choose to invest. After 
extensive analysis, exploration campaigns are planned 
to try to discover oil and gas fields within underexplored 
sedimentary basins. When we have a significant discovery 
we undertake appraisal programmes which may include 
the drilling of wells and further geotechnical analysis to 
determine the size and quality of the discovery. 
If the appraisal programme confirms that development 
of a discovery will be commercially and financially viable, 
we begin work on a development plan. This maps out how 
we will get the hydrocarbons into production to generate 
revenue and cash flow. We also create value through the 
implementation of enhanced production strategies to 
optimise the value of recoverable hydrocarbons from 
existing producing fields. 
Whilst we believe that the Company has a sustainable 
platform to continue to participate in the India growth 
story, we plan to undertake a comprehensive review of our 
medium- and long-term objectives to optimise shareholder 
value. This process will be ongoing through the first half  
of 2012.
Board changes
The Board recently underwent a significant 
reorganisation which has resulted in the appointment 
of three new Directors and the planned retirement of 
three other Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman, Paul 
Mortimer had expressed his intention to step down from 
his role in 2011. The Nomination Committee initiated a 
process which resulted in my appointment in January 
2012. Paul has been Chairman for over nine years, from 
before the Company floated on the London Exchange, 
and we very much appreciate all his wise support 
and guidance. Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
06/07
Key Performance Indicators
The Board undertook a review of its key performance 
indicators and has subsequently identified six key 
measures to assess the performance of the Company 
which are categorised into four non-financial measures 
(Total Recordable Injuries, Contingent Resources 
growth, wells drilled, net production), and two financial 
measures (cash flow from operations, cash and short-term 
investments). The Board believes that these six measures 
provide a reasonable benchmark for the Company’s overall 
performance. We met several of our targets for 201 1 but 
fell short of one financial and two operating targets.
Risk management
The Board has adopted a formal risk and uncertainties 
review process, involving the generation, identification of 
key risks and the formulation of mitigation strategies by  
the Company’s senior management team. Through the 
review process the following principal risks for 2012  
were identified:
 – Strategic risk – Overdependence on a single partner 
and lack of control to drive value creating activities; 
asset portfolio over-weighted to long-cycle 
exploration licences.
 – Financial risk – A prolonged shut-in of the PY-3 
field will have an impact on the Company’s ability 
to generate cash flow; relinquishment of assets may 
result in an impairment provision; liquidated damages 
for incomplete minimum work programmes; absence of 
GOI budget approval may hinder recovery of auxiliary 
costs associated with PY-3 shut-in period; CY-OS/2 
arbitration ruling not in our favour may result in an 
impairment provision.
 – Operational risk – Dependence on a single producing 
asset; limited life of PY-3 field in absence of further 
development; sustained sub-commercial exploration 
results; staff retention.
 – Compliance – Deteriorating stakeholder sentiment; 
changing regulatory and political environment in India.
Year-end audit
As in last year’s accounts, the auditors have provided an 
emphasis of matter comment in their Audit Report with 
reference to the uncertainty concerning the Group’s 
request to the GOI for an extension of its exploration 
licence in block CY-OS/2 as disclosed in note 2 and 15  
to the consolidated financial statements. In the event that 
Hardy’s application for an extension of the CY-OS/2 
licence was to be unsuccessful, the capitalised expenditure 
of $51 million will be subject to impairment testing.
Going concern
Having regard to the Company’s existing working capital 
position and its ability to raise potential financing, the 
Directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate 
resources to enable it to undertake its planned work 
programme of exploration, appraisal and development 
activities over the next 12 months.
We have initiated a 
comprehensive review of our 
long-term strategic goals and 
objectives in order to realise 
value for shareholders
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement continued Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
The D3 licence 
remains at the 
core of our 
organic growth 
potential
Outlook
The Declaration of Commerciality proposal for the D3 
block is being reviewed by the Government of India and 
this process will continue through 2012. Reprocessing of 
seismic covering the eastern area of the D3 block is also 
expected to continue through 2012. As a result drilling on 
the D3 block is expected to recommence in the first 
quarter of 2013. 
The D3 exploration licence in the Krishna Godavari 
Basin remains at the core of our organic growth potential. 
The Krishna Godavari Basin is an emerging world-class 
petroleum province and, together with rapidly improving 
Indian gas pipeline infrastructure and high demand for 
gas, the prospects for the economic development of gas 
resources in this area are excellent. Through 2012 we will 
continue to collaborate actively with our partners Reliance 
and BP to optimise the exploration programme for this 
highly prospective block.
With the recent adoption of the Declaration of 
Commerciality for the GS-01 block we have until the  
end of the year to submit a field development plan for the 
Dhirubhai 33 natural gas discovery. The D9 joint venture 
has until July 2012 to submit an appraisal programme for 
the KG-D9-A2 gas discovery.
An early priority for PY-3 will be to determine, with 
partners and contractors, a suitable way forward to 
optimise value for all stakeholders. 
Following the appointment of Ian MacKenzie, as Chief 
Executive Officer, we have initiated a comprehensive 
review of our long-term strategic goals and objectives in 
order to realise value for shareholders. We look forward to 
reporting the results of the review in due course but in any 
event, no later than at the time of our half-year results in 
September 2012. The Company remains in a strong 
working capital position from which to fund its planned 
work activity.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
6 March 2012
