 Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
08/09
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Yogeshwar Sharma
Chief Executive Officer
In 2011 we continued our primary objective 
of evaluating the hydrocarbon potential of our 
exploration assets in India and bringing them closer 
to commerciality. A proposal for commerciality for 
the D3 discovery was submitted to the Government 
of India for review, while the GS-01 block’s 
commerciality proposal was adopted by the joint 
ventures Management Committee. We announced 
the results of two further exploration wells drilled in 
our deepwater D9 block, one of which resulted in  
a discovery. The commerciality of the discovery is 
under review. The farming-in by BP in our KG blocks 
further underscored the exploration potential of 
these assets. We were disappointed in not securing 
the necessary approvals to extend the facility 
contract for our producing field PY-3 which 
ultimately resulted in a field shut down.
In 2012, we will continue to build on the positive 
momentum in D3 with further evaluation of the deeper 
prospects in the block while at the same time review longer 
term field development options with our PY-3 partners.
The farming-in by BP in our 
KG blocks further underscored 
the exploration potential of  
these assets
Corporate strategy
The Company has adopted an India-focused upstream 
exploration and development strategy. We believe that the 
India sedimentary basins are underexplored and, as our 
results in the Krishna Godavari Basin have shown that 
significant accumulations of hydrocarbons remain to  
be found. India’s economy is expected to continue its 
impressive growth and as a result, the country’s energy 
consumption, along with its infrastructure, will materially 
increase, far exceeding current domestic supply of energy. 
As a net importer of oil and LNG, we expect India’s 
regulatory and investment environment for independent oil 
and gas explorers and producers to substantially improve 
during the near term given the sustained upward pressure 
on oil and gas prices in India.
Over the past five years, the Company has announced 
seven gas discoveries from 13 exploration wells. The 
approval of the Declaration of Commerciality submissions 
are the next step in the monetisation of our exploration 
efforts. Today we view the D3 exploration block with 
considerable optimism and continue to believe that our 
existing exploration portfolio offers significant organic 
growth potential for the Company.
Execution of strategy
The highlight of 2011 was the continued de-risking of our 
exploration portfolio as we move closer to establishing 
commerciality of our discoveries. While D9 still remains  
a frontier deepwater block, the D3 block with its four 
discoveries to date continues to show more potential in 
many of its deeper prospects which are currently under 
evaluation with our partners BP and Reliance. A proposal 
of commerciality for the D3 discoveries was submitted to 
the Government of India in late 2011 for their approval. 
The proposal called for a stand alone development with 
sub-sea completions and a pipeline to shore.
A previously submitted proposal for commerciality on the 
GS-01 block was approved by the Government of India in 
late 2011 for which the joint venture now have 12 months 
to submit a full field development plan. 
The submission of Declaration of Commerciality on our  
D3 discovery and the approval of commerciality on our 
previously submitted Declaration of Commerciality on 
GS-01 is further endorsement of our India-focused 
strategy of de-risking our exploration assets. Maintaining 
and enhancing the Company’s technical and commercial 
competencies is an integral component for the successful 
execution of our strategy. We will continue to look to 
enhance our organisation’s core technical, financial and 
commercial competencies to maintain the Company’s 
platform to capture the growth and value creating 
opportunities unique to India’s upstream sector.
India outlook
India’s natural gas carrying capacity is expected to 
increase fourfold by 2015 to 490 mmscmd (length  
24,000 km). Natural gas prices in India have progressively 
increased over the past 10 years by over 250 per cent 
through the dismantling of the administered pricing 
mechanism. The combination of prospective 
underexplored basins located within close proximity  
to a growing consumer market, presents an attractive 
upstream investment opportunity. Continuing increase  
in India’s gas supply and demand and rising gas price 
environment puts Hardy in an attractive position. Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
Health, Safety and Environment
As an offshore operator the Company is committed to 
good health and safety practices which are at the forefront 
in all of our activities. In 2011 we realised a reduction in 
total recordable accidents for the PY-3 field. We were 
delighted to be the recipient of the India Coast Guard’s 
inaugural Environmental Awards 2010 in the oil handling 
agency category. The award is in recognition of efforts 
made by the Company for the implementation of oil 
pollution prevention measures and endeavours for the 
protection of the marine environment.
Exploration highlights
In 201 1 we announced the results of two further exploration 
wells in the D9 block, one of which resulted in a discovery. 
The Company also submitted a proposal for the Declaration 
of Commerciality of the Dhirubhai 39, 41 and 52 natural gas 
discoveries on the D3 exploration block. The exploration 
Phase I for the D3 licence is extended into 2013.
Development and production
During 201 1, the Company operated PY-3 field’s gross 
production was 0.71 mmbbl of oil compared with 1.15 
mmbbl for 2010. The decrease in production is principally 
attributable to the temporary shut-in of the field on 30 July 
201 1. Prior to shut-in the field was producing at a rate of 
3,100 bbld. At the recommencement of production the PY-3 
field will produce at an initial rate of over 3,000 bbld and is 
planned to go to 8,000 bbld with two additional wells.
Resource potential
Due to limited drilling activity in 2011 and the uncertainty 
surrounding the recommencement of production in the 
PY-3 asset, the Company took the decision to postpone 
the updating of a Competent Person’s Report until later in 
the year. A summary of the 2011 report, providing a block 
by block breakdown, is provided at the end of this report 
and the complete report can be downloaded from Hardy’s 
website: www.hardyoil.com.
Key partnerships
Hardy is proactive in its involvement with respect to our 
non-operated assets, working closely with our strategic 
partners in India, contributing independent assessments 
in conjunction with collaborative dialogue. The Company 
interacts on a regular basis with its partners at multiple 
levels, to ensure that our goals and objectives are 
addressed and to facilitate planning of upcoming work 
programme schedules. Maintaining open and substantive 
relationships with existing partners and other key 
stakeholders in the upstream oil and gas sector in India 
are critical to the execution of the Company’s strategy.
In early 2011, it was announced that BP will become a 
joint venture partner with Hardy and Reliance in both of 
our Krishna Godavari Basin blocks. At the time of the 
announcement, Reliance described BP as one of the 
finest deep water exploration companies in the world. 
They bring considerable additional skills and resources, 
backed by a quality research and development group, to 
our partnership. The combined skills of our companies will 
be focused on finding and developing more hydrocarbons 
in the deep water blocks of India and significantly 
contributing to India’s energy security. We welcome BP 
and look forward to working with them and Reliance on 
our joint venture projects in the future.
2012 programme
D3 – Further seismic processing on the D3 block is 
required over the toe-thrust area (north east) prior to 
drilling in this area. The processing is expected to be 
ongoing through the first half of 2012 and drilling to 
recommence in the first quarter of 2013.
As a result of the four consecutive discoveries that have 
been made on D3, this block now singularly stands out 
as the premier asset of Hardy. We have identified 26 
prospects or leads with an average size of 233 bcf. We 
remain in the early stages of exploration on this block and 
with six different play types present, we view this asset 
with great optimism. 
We have submitted Declaration of Commerciality 
proposals on two blocks – D3 and GS-01. We expect the 
Government of India’s review of the D3 declaration to have 
concluded by the end of the year. 
GS-01 – Following approval of the Declaration of 
Commerciality the GS-01 joint venture has 12 months 
to submit a detailed field development plan.
D9 – The joint venture is reviewing the potential of the 
KG-D9-A2 natural gas discovery for further activity and 
has until July 2012 to submit an appraisal programme. 
In the absence of the submission of an appraisal 
programme the block will stand relinquished.
PY-3 – We will continue to review longer term field 
development options with our PY-3 partners to optimise 
value for all stakeholders.
CY-OS/2 – The arbitration process is ongoing and 
further activity on this block is deferred until the arbitration 
tribunal has made its ruling. We expect the process to be 
concluded in 2012.
Staff
In early 2012 the Company announced the restructuring 
of its Board which we believe has strengthened 
management as we begin a process of review and 
reflection of our long-term goals and objectives to 
creating shareholder value.
I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the 
contribution of our staff both based in India and the United 
Kingdom. The Group has demonstrated a tremendous 
level of dedication and commitment, having continued to 
work professionally and efficiently to meet our objectives 
in a challenging environment.
Yogeshwar Sharma
Chief Executive Officer
6 March 2012
June 2005
Listing on AIM
January 2007
CY-OS/2 Fan-A 
natural gas discovery 
March 2007
GS-01 B1 natural  
gas discovery 
February 2008
KGV-D3-A1 natural 
gas discovery
February 2008
LSE Main Market 
listing
October 2009
KG-D9-A1 plugged 
and abandoned
December 2009
KGV-D3-R1 natural 
gas discovery
May 2010
Declaration of 
Commerciality 
proposal for 
Dhirubhai 33
August 2010
D3-W1 natural gas 
discovery
April 2008
KGV-D3-B1 natural 
gas discovery 
October 2010
Nigerian disposal
February 2011
Declaration of 
Commerciality 
proposal for 
Dhirubhai 39,  
41, 52
June 2011
KG-D9-A2 natural 
gas discovery
