 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
10
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Overview
I joined Hardy early in 2012 and, following 
a comprehensive induction process, I 
assumed the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer role 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) in May. At the time, the PY-3 oil 
ﬁeld had been shut-in since July 2011 and 
the Company had recently announced the 
relinquishment of the D9 exploration block. 
Consequently, my ﬁrst priority was to 
undertake a strategic review to identify the 
key value drivers of the Company’s asset 
portfolio and establish a clear business 
plan to optimise shareholder value. Our 
efforts have started to generate positive 
momentum for the year ahead as we 
continue to implement our plan.
Strategic review
With the guidance of the Board, 
management initiated a strategic review. 
Our review was focused on assessing 
Hardy’s existing assets, organisational 
competencies and opportunities to create 
value for shareholders. The Board 
concurred with management that Hardy’s 
India-focused asset portfolio provides a 
good platform from which to create 
signiﬁcant shareholder value.
India’s improving investment climate
Throughout 2012 we have observed 
robust public debate regarding the 
performance and practices of India’s 
upstream oil and gas sector. We welcome 
a higher level of transparency which 
should result in an increase in investment 
in the sector and the streamlining of 
various approval processes. India’s gas 
market fundamentals remain strong and 
the gap between demand and supply is 
expected to increase with consequent 
upward pressure on future gas pricing.
Reorganisation 
As a result of the shut-in of the Company’s 
producing assets, an early objective of our 
review was to align our underlying 
overheads with value creating activities 
without compromising the competencies 
required to remain an offshore operator. 
Based on our review, the Company’s UK 
corporate ofﬁce was relocated to 
Aberdeen, Scotland. The new location 
is in close proximity to industry expertise 
in designing, planning and executing 
complex offshore hydrocarbon projects. 
In addition annualised overhead reduction 
of approximately $1.0 million has been 
achieved. We also modiﬁed the 
Company’s internal budgeting and 
ﬁnancial reporting practices to enhance 
transparency and accountability.
We are committed to 
a plan with set timelines, 
deliverables and 
accountability.
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
11
Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
Ongoing assessment
We intend to undertake further direct 
recruitment or engagement of support 
personnel and resources, as we advance 
execution of our plans for the PY-3, GS-01 
and CY-OS/2 assets. We continue to 
assess and evaluate further opportunities 
that complement our existing portfolio in 
India and identify longer term upstream 
opportunities to diversify the Company’s 
portfolio.
Implementation
In 2012 we secured agreement, from the 
PY-3 joint venture on the technical 
speciﬁcation of the PY-3 ﬁeld production 
system. We are now in the process of 
gaining consensus with our partners for 
the submission of a comprehensive full 
ﬁeld development plan. Once partner and 
GOI approvals are secured we can initiate 
planning to fast-track recommencement of 
production.
Extensive reprocessing of 3D seismic data 
was completed by the D3 joint venture in 
2012. As a result, a number of prospects 
have been high-graded and, with the 
arrival of the deepwater drillship, Dhirubhai 
Deepwater KG2, we are expecting two 
exploration wells to be drilled in 2013. 
Once these wells have been drilled the 
joint venture will compile data collected, 
including the four previous natural gas 
discoveries, and set out to engineer a 
comprehensive development strategy for 
all proven hydrocarbon accumulations. 
Near the end of 2012, a full ﬁeld 
development plan for GS-01 was 
submitted for the shallow water, natural 
gas discovery, Dhirubhai 33 located 
offshore the west coast of India. We had 
worked closely with the operator to have 
the full ﬁeld development plan submitted 
by the prescribed deadline to the 
respective department of GOI. Early in 
2013 the Company conﬁrmed that it was 
in discussions with Reliance to increase 
our participating interest. These 
discussions are ongoing and we will 
provide an update once discussions are 
concluded. As approvals are secured we 
will be able to advance planning for the 
development of the asset.
As announced in February 2013, the 
Hon’ble Tribunal issued an award in the 
CY-OS/2 joint venture’s favour. The ruling 
entitles the joint venture to undertake 
appraisal of the Ganesha-1 natural gas 
discovery over a three-year period from 
the date the block is restored to the joint 
venture. Our immediate priority is to 
re-engage with the regulator and initiate 
planning for the appraisal of the 
Ganesha-1 natural gas discovery.
A common theme with our assets is 
dependence on securing approvals from 
partners and various GOI authorities. We 
fully recognise the impact that extended 
delays have to the valuation of our assets 
and we are making it our priority to utilise 
all acceptable avenues to secure 
approvals in a timely manner.
Health, safety and environment (HSE)
As an offshore operator, the Company is 
committed to excellent health and safety 
practices which are at the forefront in all 
of our activities. Although all offshore 
activities were suspended in March 2012 
we intend to initiate activities in the future 
and will continue our robust commitment 
to maintain high HSE standards 
throughout the organisation. The 
Company’s HSE policy document was 
reviewed and amended with increased 
focus on leadership and accountability. 
Subsequently the revised policy was 
rolled out and discussed with all staff.
Resource potential
Due to limited drilling activity in 2011 and 
2012 and the uncertainty regarding the 
timing of PY-3 oil ﬁeld’s recommencement 
of production, the Company has not 
undertaken the updating of a Competent 
Person’s Report (CPR). We intend to 
re-evaluate whether or not to update 
our CPR following the completion of 
exploration drilling on the D3 block. 
Stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder engagement will be a 
key focus for Hardy through 2013. We 
believe that maintaining open and close 
relationships with existing partners and 
other key stakeholders in the upstream oil 
and gas sector in India are critical to the 
successful execution of the Company’s 
strategy. We achieve this through regular 
collaborative dialogue and the sharing of 
independent views and objectives. 
2013 programme
The D3 exploration licence in the Krishna 
Godavari Basin remains at the core of our 
near term growth potential. The Krishna 
Godavari Basin is a world-class petroleum 
province and together with rapidly 
improving Indian gas pipeline 
infrastructure and the high demand 
for gas, the prospects for the economic 
development of gas resources in this 
area are excellent. 
Through 2013, we will continue to 
collaborate actively with our partners 
Reliance Industries Limited (Reliance) and 
BP to optimise the exploration programme 
for this highly prospective block. The 
declaration of commerciality proposal for 
the D3 block is being reviewed by the GOI 
and this process is expected to continue 
through 2013. Processing of 3D seismic 
data covering the eastern area of the D3 
block was completed in 2012 and 
interpretation continues. With the arrival 
of the drillship Dhirubhai Deepwater KG2 
in Indian waters, drilling of the ﬁfth 
exploration well is expected to commence 
in the second quarter of 2013 and the 
sixth and ﬁnal committed exploration 
well scheduled later in 2013.
The working capital position of the 
Company remains strong and we are 
well funded to meet our planned work 
programmes. We will continue to seek 
opportunities to build value for 
shareholders.
Staff and outlook
Following the Company’s strategic review 
the decision was taken to implement cost 
reducing measures which resulted in the 
regrettable reduction of staff in some 
areas. We have also committed to a plan 
with set timetables, deliverables and 
accountability and we are conﬁdent we 
have the right people in place to meet 
our objectives. 
I would like to acknowledge the high level 
of professionalism, commitment and 
patience demonstrated by our employees 
during a year of transition and uncertainty. 
Our methodical approach has built up 
positive momentum and I expect Hardy 
to build on this through the year.
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
6 March 2013
