 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
4
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
Early in 2012, I accepted an appointment 
to Hardy’s Board and assumed the 
Chairmanship shortly thereafter. I was 
very pleased with the Board’s prompt 
appointment of Ian MacKenzie as Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer. Ian has an exceptional 
track record of delivering results in a 
competitive industry and his experience 
and leadership qualities are well suited 
to implement our objectives.
With the Board’s support, an early priority 
for Ian was to oversee a strategic review 
which resulted in two key conclusions: the 
Company’s India-focused asset portfolio 
has good underlying value; and there were 
opportunities to implement organisational 
efﬁciencies to reduce overhead 
expenditures. Drawing on these 
conclusions we have subsequently put 
in place clear business plans for each 
asset and taken steps to conserve capital 
through cutting organisational overhead.
Management has built
positive momentum
going into an important
year for Hardy
“ In 2013, our primary objectives will be to build on the 
current positive momentum by securing key stakeholders’ 
approvals and initiating activity to take us closer to realising 
production from our D3, PY-3 and GS-01 blocks.”
Alisdair Locke
Chairman Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5
Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
Management has built positive momentum 
going into an important year for Hardy, 
speciﬁcally:
On D3, we expect the recommencement 
of exploration drilling, of the ﬁfth well, in 
the second quarter of 2013 and the sixth 
and ﬁnal committed exploration well due 
later in the year. In 2012 the D3 joint 
venture Operating Committee reviewed 
and resubmitted a declaration of 
commerciality proposal for the Dhirubhai 
39 and 41 natural gas discoveries subject 
to a Government of India (GOI) review. 
The proposed development is a dry gas, 
subsea cluster development with the 
ﬂexibility to add in additional discoveries. 
The GOI’s review is ongoing.
On PY-3 we will submit a comprehensive 
full ﬁeld development plan to the GOI for 
approval after which we expect to secure 
appropriate offshore production and 
storage facilities and initiate planning 
for a development drilling programme 
to recommence production in 2014. 
On GS-01 we intend to conclude 
discussions with our joint venture partner 
to increase our interest in the block. A 
priority in 2013 will be to secure GOI 
approval of the ﬁeld development plan 
and initiate planning for development.
Finally, on CY-OS/2, an early priority of 
the Company is to have the block restored 
to the joint venture, as per the Hon’ble 
Tribunal’s award, which provides for a 
further three years to complete the 
appraisal of the Ganesha-1 natural gas 
discovery. Once restored to the Company, 
as operator, we will initiate planning for the 
appraisal programme. The joint venture 
was also awarded interest cost on its 
Rs5.0 billion (approximately $90 million) 
investment in the block (Interest Cost) and 
various costs associated with the 
arbitration process (Cost). The Interest 
Cost of $24.6 million and Cost of $0.2 
million that were awarded are currently 
considered as contingent assets in the 
ﬁnancial statements for the year 2012 
(note 15). Interest has accrued at simple 
interest rate of nine per cent per annum on 
the joint venture’s investment. 
Key results
No revenue was realised in 2012 
compared to $11.3 million in 2011  
(in July 2011 the PY-3 ﬁeld was shut-in). 
Administrative expenses increased to $7.5 
million compared to $6.9 million in 2011. 
The Company made a total comprehensive 
loss of $11.1 million in 2012. 
The Group started 2012 with cash 
reserves of $36.5 million. Net cash used 
in continuing operating activities was $6.5 
million. Exploration-related expenditures 
amounted to $1.5 million and interest and 
investment income was $0.9 million. As a 
result, the Group’s cash reserves at the 
end of 2012 fell to $29.1 million. The 
Group remains in a strong ﬁnancial 
position with no debt.
Our business model 
Hardy creates value through the 
exploration and production of 
hydrocarbons. In order to explore we 
must ﬁrst be granted a licence by the 
Government of the countries in which we 
choose to invest. After extensive analysis, 
exploration campaigns are planned to try 
to discover oil and gas ﬁelds within 
underexplored sedimentary basins. 
When we have a signiﬁcant discovery 
we undertake appraisal programmes 
which may include the drilling of wells and 
further geotechnical analysis to determine 
the size and quality of the discovery. 
If the appraisal programme conﬁrms 
that development of a discovery will be 
commercially and ﬁnancially viable, 
we begin work on a development plan. 
This maps out how we will get the 
hydrocarbons into production to generate 
revenue and cash ﬂow. We also create 
value through the implementation of 
enhanced production strategies to 
optimise the value of recoverable 
hydrocarbons from existing 
producing ﬁelds.
Our strategy 
We undertook a strategic review through 
2012, following which we have concluded 
that Hardy’s India-focused portfolio has 
the potential to add signiﬁcant shareholder 
value and our medium-term focus will 
therefore remain on India. The outcome of 
planned activity through 2013 is expected 
to conﬁrm our view on the longer-term 
prospects of our portfolio. In the interim 
we will continue to consider all 
opportunities to accelerate value creation 
for our shareholders.
India energy demand – India’s demand for 
natural gas is expected to grow by about 
19 per cent per annum (from 194 million 
standard cubic metres per day (mmscmd)
in 2013 to 466 mmscmd in 2017) to meet 
the incremental requirement of the power, 
fertiliser and other industries. The CNG 
and city gas sector will also see a 
quantum growth in natural gas use. It is 
expected that by 2017, 300 cities will be 
covered with city gas distribution. 
Domestic supply is projected to be 231 
mmscmd, falling well short of expected 
demand creating a robust environment in 
which to monetise the Company’s current 
and potential gas discoveries.
Board appointments
The Board underwent a signiﬁcant 
reorganisation which has resulted in the 
appointment of three new Directors and 
retirement of three other Non-Executive 
Directors. I was appointed to the Board 
as Chairman in January 2012. 
Prior to my appointment, Carol Bell, Ian 
Bruce, and Paul Mortimer had indicated 
that they did not intend to put themselves 
forward for re-election at the Company’s 
next Annual General Meeting and would 
retire from the Board of Hardy. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank them for 
their contribution over their tenure. 
On 1 March 2012, the Company 
announced the appointment of Peter Milne 
as a Non-Executive Director and he has 
subsequently assumed the role of Audit 
Committee chair and Senior Non-
Executive Director. Peter brings to the 
Board extensive ﬁnancial expertise and 
upstream experience. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
6
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement continued
At the time of my appointment Yogeshwar 
Sharma expressed his intention to step 
aside as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and 
assume a non-executive role with the 
Company. We are grateful to Yogeshwar 
Sharma, one of the founders of the 
Company, for his invaluable contribution 
over many years and we are particularly 
grateful for the continuity provided through 
the transition to Non-Executive Director.
On 1 March 2012 we were pleased 
to announce the appointment of Ian 
MacKenzie. Under challenging conditions 
Ian has made an immediate impact to the 
business and recent actions have built 
positive momentum as we head into an 
important year for the Company. Ian and 
his management team have been 
methodical in their approach to formulating 
sound business plans for each of our 
assets with clear deliverables and 
accountability. We are conﬁdent that his 
experience and leadership qualities are 
best suited to optimise value for our 
shareholders.
Governance
We undertook a number of initiatives 
to improve our corporate governance 
practices. Earlier this year the Board 
adopted a new Code of Business 
Conduct (the Code). Subsequently, Ian 
MacKenzie has introduced and explained 
the Code to all employees and 
contractors. The Board reviewed and 
amended the Board committees’ terms of 
reference in accordance with Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
(ISCA) guidelines and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We are in regular 
contact with major shareholders and we 
are committed to implement and enhance 
governance practices appropriate for a 
Company of our size and resources.
Risk management
The Board remains focused on identifying 
and managing keys risks to our business 
objectives. The Board has put in place 
a formal risk and uncertainties review 
process, involving the generation and 
identiﬁcation of key risks, the formulation 
of mitigation strategies by the Company’s 
senior management team and regular 
reporting to the Board. This process 
facilitates a dynamic risk management 
process. 
The Board has identiﬁed the following 
principal risks for 2013:
 – Strategic risk – Asset portfolio over-
weighted to long-cycle appraisal and 
development; sub-commercial 
exploration results
 – Financial risk – Absence of stakeholder 
approvals for proposed development 
and appraisal programmes; liquidated 
damages for incomplete minimum work 
programmes
 – Operational risk – A loss of well control 
could occur during offshore drilling 
operations; securing timely approval for 
a PY-3 full ﬁeld development plan; lack 
of control of timing of exploration 
drilling; staff retention
 – Compliance – Deteriorating stakeholder 
sentiment; changing regulatory and 
political environment in India
“ The outcome of planned activity through 2013 
is expected to conﬁrm our view on the longer-term 
prospects of our portfolio.” Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
7
Overview 
Business Review 
Governance 
Financial Statement 
Company Information 
Going concern
Having regard to the Company’s existing 
working capital position and its ability to 
raise potential ﬁnancing, the Directors 
are of the opinion that the Group has 
adequate resources to enable it to 
undertake its planned work programme 
of exploration, appraisal and development 
activities over the next 12 months.
Outlook
The D3 exploration licence in the Krishna 
Godavari Basin remains at the core of our 
organic growth potential and we expect 
drilling to recommence in the second 
quarter of 2013. The Krishna Godavari 
Basin is an emerging world-class 
petroleum province and, together with 
rapidly improving Indian gas pipeline 
infrastructure and high demand for 
gas, the prospects for the economic 
development of gas resources in this area 
are excellent. The CY-OS/2 award is very 
encouraging and we will provide updates 
as we re-engage with the GOI to advance 
appraisal activity on this block.
In 2013, our primary objectives will be to 
build on the current positive momentum by 
securing key stakeholders’ approvals and 
initiating activity to take us closer to 
realising production from our D3, PY-3 and 
GS-01 blocks. We have clear deliverables 
for each asset in 2013 and management 
are fully accountable for the implementation 
of agreed plans. Energy demand in India is 
growing at an exceptional rate and there 
are indications that a more collaborative 
environment is taking hold in India. We 
believe that these external factors should 
complement our efforts.
The Company remains in a strong working 
capital position from which to fund its 
planned work activity.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
6 March 2012
