 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
08
Hardy’s India focused 
asset portfolio provides 
a good platform from 
which to create significant 
shareholder value. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic Review
(The role of the Chief Executive Officer includes implementing the Group’s strategy as agreed by the Board.)
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive Officer Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
09
Strategic Report
Introduction
Through 2013/14 we have made progress on a number of 
initiatives set out for our India focused portfolio. The CY-OS/2 
arbitration award in our favour was very positive and we have 
made good progress with advancing the PY-3 field development 
plan. The exploration drilling programme at D3 was pushed to 
2014, due to the lack of rig availability. The Group realised a 
reduction in loss due in part to measures taken in the second 
half of 2012 to minimise administrative expenditure.
Our strategy
Hardy’s India focused asset portfolio provides a good platform 
from which to create significant shareholder value. The outcome 
of planned activity through 2014 and 2015 is expected to verify 
our view on the longer-term prospects of our portfolio. In the 
interim, we will continue to consider all opportunities to accelerate 
value creation for our shareholders.
We intend to undertake further direct recruitment or engagement 
of support personnel and resources, as we advance execution of 
our plans for the PY-3, GS-01 and CY-OS/2 assets. We continue 
to assess and evaluate further opportunities that complement our 
existing portfolio in India and identify longer-term upstream 
opportunities to potentially diversify the Company’s portfolio.
Health, safety and environment (HSE)
As an offshore operator, the Company is committed to excellent 
health and safety practices which are at the forefront in all of 
our activities. Although all offshore activities were suspended 
in March 2012 we intend to initiate activities in the future and 
will continue our commitment to maintain high HSE standards 
throughout the organisation. The Company’s HSE policy 
document was reviewed and amended with increased focus 
on leadership and accountability. 
Implementation
The Company’s activities have been focused on the finalisation 
of the PY-3 comprehensive FDP which will enable us to meet our 
target to recommence production in 2015. The cooperation of our 
joint venture partners has allowed Hardy to make good progress 
towards this goal although there remain key commercial 
considerations regarding levy obligations which need to be 
resolved by and between the Licensee and the GOI prior to the 
FDP being formally considered. In this regard we were moving 
towards a consensus amongst the partners unfortunately the 
duration of India’s national election process combined with the 
Country’s Model Code tapered momentum over the past months. 
There remain some contractual clarifications required particularly 
surrounding the term of the PSC, quantum of levies to apply and 
their treatment as a contract cost. We are optimistic that progress 
will be made in the near future.
The KG-D3 joint venture continued to progress a number 
of geotechnical studies focused on assessing the potential 
of the eastern area and the high grading of identified prospects. 
In accordance with GOI policy, an application to extend the 
exploration phase of the block to the end of 2014 was submitted 
to the GOI. Confirmation of extension is outstanding however the 
approval of the initial six-month extension was received in the first 
quarter of 2014. India’s Ministry of Defence (MOD) notified the 
joint venture that a portion of the southwest area of the block 
has been identified as a Defence Research & Development 
Organisation (DRDO) impact zone. As a result, access to 
this portion of the block may be restricted from time-to-time. 
CY-OS/2 arbitration concluded with the Hon’ble Tribunal award 
in favour of the joint venture. The GOI has subsequently filed an 
appeal against the international award in the High Court of Delhi 
and this action has caused a delay in the restoration of the block 
and recommencement of appraisal activity. We have filed an 
execution application in the Delhi High Court since the Company 
believes that the unanimous international tribunal award is well 
reasoned and, as per the India Arbitration & Conciliation Act 
1996, may not be subject to appeal in Indian courts. Hardy 
currently recognises a contingent asset of $36.0 million 
associated with the Tribunal’s award of interest on investment.
The GS-01 operator notified the GOI that it intends to relinquish 
its participating interest in the block. In accordance with our joint 
operating agreement, Hardy is entitled to assume the interest of 
a withdrawing party. The Company is continuing to pursue the 
acquisition of the operator’s participating interest and progress 
the approval of the proposed FDP. Dialogue with government 
bodies continues regarding the approval of transfer and 
consideration of the FDP submitted by Hardy in late 2012.
Financial results
The Group is reporting a total comprehensive loss of $4.8 million 
for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. In 2012, we successfully 
implemented steps to reduce our overheads. Administrative 
expenses for the reporting period was $6.2 million in 2013/14. 
As a result the Group’s cash and short-term investments position 
reduced by $4.4 million to $24.7 million. Capital expenditure was 
nominal due to limited exploration activity. The Group has no debt, 
and is well funded to meet its future work commitments.
Outlook
Our primary objectives remain to secure key stakeholders’ 
approvals, initiate activity that will take us closer to realising 
production from our portfolio of assets and recommence D3 
exploration drilling by the end of 2014. We have clear deliverables 
for each asset and management are fully accountable for the 
implementation of the agreed plans. Energy demand in India 
continues to grow at an exceptional rate and the GOI has stated 
that energy security is a priority. We are optimistic that policy 
will continue to evolve to facilitate the timely exploitation and 
development of the country’s natural resources.
The working capital position of the Company remains strong and 
we are well funded to meet our planned work programmes. We 
will continue to seek opportunities to build value for shareholders.
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive Officer
11 June 2014
