 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
04
The Company’s India 
focused asset portfolio has 
good underlying value and 
our objectives for realising 
this have not changed.
Chairman’s Statement
(The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.)
Alasdair Locke
Chairman Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
05
Strategic Report
Introduction
In general, listed independent exploration and production 
companies underperformed against the market in the past year and 
unfortunately Hardy is no exception. The Company’s India focused 
asset portfolio has good underlying value and our objectives for 
realising this have not changed, however advancement of our 
strategy has been slower than we had hoped. We have in place 
clear business plans for each asset and continue to focus on 
conservation of capital whilst these plans develop.
Markets – India focus
India’s demand for natural gas is expected to more than triple 
to 500 mmscmd by 2022. This will be driven by requirements 
of the power, fertiliser and other industries. Furthermore, the City 
Natural Gas and city gas sector is projected to see a quantum 
growth in natural gas use and it is expected that by 2017, over 
300 cities will be covered with city gas distribution.
Currently India is the fifth largest importer of Liquefied Natural Gas 
which accounts for approximately 35 per cent of supply. Global 
LNG markets are expected to remain constrained through 2020 
due to environmental concerns of other energy sources in other 
Asian countries and the uncertainly regarding Japan’s energy 
supply strategy. Domestic supply is projected to be 231 mmscmd 
in 2022, falling well short of expected demand and creating 
a robust environment in which to monetise the Company’s 
current and potential gas discoveries.
Our objectives are to secure the 
necessary approvals, and commence 
planning, for development drilling in 
PY-3, conclude the transfer of interest 
from our partner in GS-01 and 
participate in the drilling of an 
exploration well on our D3 block.
Importantly, the general election has given a clear majority 
to a new government based on an aspirational platform with 
a key objective to accelerate economic growth. Energy supply 
is expected to be an important consideration and, in particular, 
policy and regulation to optimise domestic production. Leading 
economists and industry analysts concur that timely migration 
to a “free market” pricing mechanism will facilitate the long-term 
objectives of the government. 
It is with this back-drop that we are indeed optimistic. The 
interests and objectives of the ministry and regulator may be 
better aligned going forward. Additionally, the Association of 
Oil and Gas Operators (AOGO) has developed into an effective 
platform for the industry to articulate a common view on effective 
policies to complement efforts to fully explore and develop India’s 
natural resource potential. 
Performance
To improve reporting efficiencies the Board agreed to 
synchronise the Group’s accounting reference date to 31 March. 
As a result, we are publishing 15-month results for the period 
ending 31 March 2014. No revenue was realised due to the 
continued shut-in of PY-3. Net cash used in continuing operating 
activities was $4.7 million. Exploration related expenditures 
amounted to $0.2 million and interest and investment income was 
$0.7 million. As a result, the Group’s cash reserves at 31 March 
2014 decreased to $24.7 million. The Group remains in a strong 
financial position with no debt.
Our business model 
Stage 1 – Hardy creates value through the exploration and 
production of hydrocarbons. In order to explore we must first 
be granted a licence by the government of the countries in 
which we choose to invest. After extensive analysis, exploration 
campaigns are planned to try to discover oil and gas fields 
within under-explored sedimentary basins. When we have 
a significant discovery we undertake appraisal programmes 
which may include the drilling of wells and further geotechnical 
analysis to determine the size and quality of the discovery. 
Stage 2 – If the appraisal programme confirms that 
development of a discovery will be commercially and financially 
viable, we begin work on a development plan. This maps out 
how we will get the hydrocarbons into production to generate 
revenue and cash flow. We also create value through the 
implementation of enhanced production strategies to optimise 
the value of recoverable hydrocarbons from existing 
producing fields. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
06
Chairman’s Statement continued
Governance
We undertook a number of initiatives to improve our corporate 
governance practices. Earlier in the period the Board adopted 
a new Code of Business Conduct (the Code). The Board also 
amended its Committees’ terms of reference in accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the UK Code). I maintain 
contact with major shareholders and we continue to evaluate 
our governance practices to ensure they are appropriate for 
a company of our size and resources.
Following the resignation of the CFO of Hardy Exploration & 
Production (India) Inc (HEPI), Mr MacKenzie, Chief Executive 
Officer, and Mr Galvin, Treasurer & Corporate Affairs Executive, 
assumed his responsibilities regarding management oversight 
and leadership of our Indian operation. As an interim measure 
Hardy has secured the services of Indian-based financial 
consultants to oversee and manage the running of the 
accounting function. 
We are pleased that Mr Ananth Kumar agreed to join as a 
non-executive director of HEPI. Mr Kumar has over 30 years’ 
experience in the oil and gas sector in financial, commercial and 
business aspects. He is a former Director Finance of Oil India 
Limited, India’s second largest exploration and production state 
enterprise. He is a qualified chartered accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Risk management
The Board has established a clear and robust process to identify 
and manage keys risks to our business objectives. We have 
formed a sub-committee to monitor the Group’s risk and 
uncertainties processes. The Risk Committee is chaired by 
the Executive Director and reports its findings to the Audit 
Committee. The following principal risks facing the Group in 
the near-term remain: exploration risk inherent to any oil and gas 
business; the timing or execution of activities may not commence 
as forecast and delays may be experienced; and, the possible 
relinquishment of exploration and appraisal acreage.
Remuneration
Following a number of years with Director fees remaining 
unchanged, the Board undertook a review of the remuneration 
of the Directors. Having consideration for the remuneration levels 
of the organisation as a whole, the Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees were revised upwards by amounts ranging from £10,000 
to £15,000 per annum. No bonus was paid to the Executive 
Director, although his base salary was increased by 10 per cent 
allowing for general inflation and additional responsibilities 
following the resignation of HEPI’s CFO.
Outlook
This year our objectives are to secure the necessary approvals, 
and commence planning, for development drilling in PY-3, 
conclude the transfer of interest from our partner in GS-01 and 
participate in the drilling of an exploration well on our D3 block. 
Activity on CY-OS/2 will recommence subject to restoration 
of the block in accordance with the arbitration award. We will 
continue to reassess our overall strategic objectives to ensure 
that they remain relevant and achievable with the Company’s 
current portfolio. The Board’s monitoring of risk and uncertainties 
will be enhanced and management have been provided with 
a regular reporting structure from the executive. 
The Company is in good financial health and the Directors are of 
the opinion that the Group has adequate resources to enable it to 
undertake its planned work programme of exploration, appraisal 
and development activities over the next 12 months.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our shareholders for 
their continued support.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
11 June 2014
