 Hargreaves Services plc. Directors’ report and financial statements 31 May 2007 
Registered number 4952865
Group Chief Executive’s statement
It gives me pleasure to announce that
the Group turnover (including share of
joint ventures) for the year ended 31
May 2007 was a record at £265.3m
(2006: £155.0m), an increase of 71.2%. 
Total operating profit was £10.4m
(2006:  £7.2m) an increase of 44.4%
which met Directors’ expectations.
The Board have recommended the
payment of a final dividend of 6p per
share in addition to the interim dividend
already paid of 3p per share.
HARGREA V ES SERVICES
6
Review of operations
During the year the Group grew
significantly both organically and by
acquisition.
In September 2006, Norec Limited, a
successful industrial services provider
employing in excess of 500 people,
was purchased. In February 2007 the
Group acquired the assets of Maltby
Colliery from UK Coal. In April 2007 the
Group acquired the business and
assets of Simon Bulk Warehousing and
Distribution. This company has a long
term contract with ConocoPhillips for
the transport and storage of petroleum
coke. This activity is being integrated
into the Industrial Division.
The Group now operates in five reporting
divisions thus giving a clear focussed
management structure with defined
lines of reporting.  The Group has suc-
cessfully integrated the new acquisi-
tions which are contributing to profits.
The Group also achieved expansion in
the year within its pre-existing Divisions,
making excellent progress in market
share and profitability.
Minerals Division
The Minerals Division is principally
concerned with the import and
subsequent sale of carbon based
materials to end users. The main areas
of site operations are the ports of
Immingham and Newport. The majority
of imported material is for the power
generation industry.
In September 2006 the Group
commenced trading from a new
office in Dusseldorf, Germany,
through a new company, Hargreaves
Raw Material Services GmbH. I am
pleased to report that this operation
has been successful and substantial
quantities of material have been imported,
principally from China, through
European ports for distribution throughout
Continental Europe. In addition,
quantities of blast furnace coke have
been imported from Poland to satisfy
market demand. The results of this
venture have exceeded expectations
and contributed to profits earlier than
expected.
Coal remains a competitive fuel for
power generation and despite the mild
winter, supply volumes have been
maintained. The strategic locations at
Immingham and Newport, helped by the
recent new terminal facility opened by
Associated British Ports at Immingham,
have allowed the Group to import and
contract for sale additional tonnage.
This Division has substantially increased
its volumes during the year and
contained its overheads. This has
produced an excellent result with
operating profits considerably increased.
The Division is headed by Steve Anson
and is now believed to be the largest
importer of coal into the UK (excluding
direct imports by generators and steel
producers). It adds value to products
by processing prior to despatch by
road, rail or water.
Increasing variety and volume of
materials comprising coal, anthracite,
coke, petcoke, pumice, shale, ash
and aggregates all contribute to the
growth achieved.
Industrial Division
The Industrial Division, headed by Greg
Kelley, Managing Director of Norec
Limited, is principally concerned with
providing labour and expertise in the
power generation, chemical and port
industries around the UK. The acquisition
of Norec Limited allowed the existing
Industrial Division to be integrated to
provide a larger and more efficient
operation with sizeable activities
throughout the UK.
During the year Norec Limited was
successfully integrated leading to
sales increases, margin improvement
and reduced overheads. The result
was very satisfactory progress. Group Chief Executive’s statement (continued)
Transport Division
This Division is principally concerned
with bulk haulage and is the largest
bulk haulier in the UK. The Division is
headed by Paul Young. The customer
base is largely major blue chip
companies for whom dedicated
haulage often on long-term index-linked
contracts provides a substantial base
load of work.
The year produced a good result
despite cost pressures particularly
diesel fuel and tyres. The market was
reasonably buoyant but remained
competitive.
In February 2007 the Group acquired
the remaining 50% of the share capital
of Hargreaves (Bulk Liquid Transport)
Limited and integrated it into main fleet
operations. The tanker operation has
successfully integrated the business of
Gilbraith Tankers Limited, acquired in
May 2006.
The Division has considerably benefited
from haulage of materials for the other
part of the Group. The ability to react
swiftly to market opportunities plus
investment in modern vehicles and
leading technology to control vehicle
movements together with increased
volumes from the tanker business all
contribute increased efficiency and
economies of scale.
The Monckton Coke & Chemical
Company Limited (‘Monckton’)
The Company, headed by Mick Gore, is
the last independent coke producer in
the UK and has long term contracts for
the supply of its specialist product to a
major UK customer and substantial
exports to Scandinavian customers.
The combined heat and power plant
produces electricity for sale to the
National Grid from excess gas
generated by the coking process.
The Company has operated successfully
during the year and produced a
satisfactory profit.
The Monckton Rubber Technologies
tyre crumbing plant which was purchased
for £1.0m has been commissioned in
the latter part of the financial year and
is processing waste tyres which are
now restricted from input into landfill.
Revenue is generated by charging
for tyre disposal and by sale of
processed rubber crumb produced.
The operation is about to complete
commissioning trials and is expected
to make a full contribution for the
financial year 2007/2008.
Maltby Colliery Limited
In February 2007 the Group acquired
the business and assets of Maltby
Colliery from UK Coal plc. Maltby Colliery
is a deep mine producing specialist
coal, mining approximately 1,250,000
tonnes per annum. The Group negotiated
a three-year contract, at close to
international prices, with Drax Power
Station for approximately 60% of
production. A further 25% of production
is used by Monckton Coke and
Chemical Company Limited, due to the
specialist coking properties of the coal.
The Group has recruited Alan Houghton
OBE, to act as adviser and director at
Maltby.  It is expected that the mine will
achieve production targets for 2007/2008
and is already making a worthwhile
contribution to operating profits.
Joint Ventures
Hargreaves Coal Combustion Products
Limited, which assists coal fired
generating stations by the sale of ash
as a bi-product, has continued to grow
and is now recognised as the UK leader
in this field. During the year a further
development was the obtaining of the
UK licence for Lytag from Cemex. Lytag
is a lightweight aggregate used in the
construction industry.
Coal4Energy Limited, our joint venture
with UK Coal plc, commenced trading
in April 2006. The Company is selling to
the light industrial and domestic markets,
previously supplied independently by
each partner. The synergy, by way of
more efficient distribution, reduced
overhead and common marketing,
has allowed the Company to prosper.
It is the largest UK supplier to these
markets and has produced satisfactory
results.
ThyssenKrupp Metallurgical Services
Limited had a satisfactory year of
operations however with the advent of
Hargreaves Raw Material Services
GmbH the Group is now able to directly
source the relevant raw materials from
its own German operations, accordingly
this joint venture was dissolved with
effect from 31 May 2007.
HARGREA V ES SERVICES
Hargreaves Services plc. Directors’ report and financial statements 31 May 2007 
Registered number 4952865
7 Hargreaves Services plc. Directors’ report and financial statements 31 May 2007 
Registered number 4952865
Group Chief Executive’s statement (continued)
Employees
Numbers employed have increased
from 585 in 2006 to 1,900 in 2007.
The principal reasons for this very large
increase have been the acquisition of
Norec Limited, Maltby Colliery and
Simon Distribution together with organic
growth. I would like to take the opportunity
to welcome all new employees and I am
pleased to report that the integration into
the Group has been successful.
Our work is often hard and dirty and
only by the efforts of our people at all
levels are our customer expectations
fully met. The Group Board joins me in
thanking both our new and existing
employees for the major part they have
played in the continuing growth and
success of the Group.
By the nature of what we do, we operate
to tight deadlines over wide geographical
areas and the growth and future
prosperity of the Group relies on the
skills, dedication and motivation of all
our employees.
Group Board
The Group Board has remained
unchanged during the year, however
we expect our Financial Director, Peter
Dillon, to retire at 31 December 2007
and active steps have been put in place
to recruit his replacement.
Current trading and outlook
The markets in which the Group trades
and has core competencies are subject
to fluctuations but remain strong. 
Further consistent and profitable
growth of the Group is anticipated.  
The Group Board remains committed to
a policy of substantial and continued
growth within the areas of its expertise.  
I am confident of being able to report
continued growth across all companies
and divisions in the future.
Gordon Banham
Group Chief Executive
3 September 2007
HARGREA V ES SERVICES
8
