 Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report an excellent
result for the year ended 31 May 2007,
driven by strong organic growth and
successful acquisitions.
Group turnover (including share of joint
ventures) of £265.3m (2006: £155.0m)
and operating profit of £10.4m (2006:
£7.2m) illustrate the considerable
progress that has been achieved.
Highlights of the year were the acquisition
of Norec Limited, in September 2006,
for a gross purchase consideration
(including expenses) of £7.4m and the
acquisition of the Maltby Colliery, in
February 2007, for a consideration
(including pension deficit and expenses)
of £31.0m. Finally, the acquisition of the
business and assets of Simon Bulk
Warehousing and Distribution was
made in April 2007 at a cost of £4.2m
(including expenses).
As the result of these and other smaller
acquisitions we welcomed more than
1,000 new employees to the Group.
All these acquisitions have been duly
integrated and have performed in
accordance with expectations. We
look forward to a full year’s contribution
from each in 2007/2008.
During the year we established a
new presence in Dusseldorf and
commenced trading operations in
coal, coke and other minerals, to
customers in Germany and other
European markets.
The newly-acquired Maltby Colliery is
the leading UK supplier of low-sulphur
coal, with Monckton Coke Works, the
only independent UK coke producer,
one of its principal outlets. Each
operates as a Division in its own right
and, combined with the various
operations in our established Minerals,
Transport and Industrial Services
Divisions, together make up an
unrivalled supply chain in the provision
of carbon-based and related minerals.  
The Group remains strongly focused
on services to the energy sector and
now comprises the largest independent
supplier of solid fuels to the generators,
whilst additionally enjoying very
strong market positions in supplies to
the foundry, cement and chemical
industries.  The Group’s excellent port
facilities at Immingham and Newport
enable extremely efficient distribution of
imported products by road, rail and
water as well as the export of specialist
products, notably to Scandanavia.
I continue to be greatly impressed by
the work ethic, motivation and loyalty of
our employees at all levels.  I would like
to thank each and every one of them,
whose skills and efforts are at the heart
of the Group’s success.
In the light of the Group’s continuing
success, the Board has recommended
a final dividend of 6p per share payable
immediately after the Annual General
Meeting on 3 October 2007, in addition
to the interim dividend of 3p per share
paid earlier in the year
We continue to enjoy good visibility of
earnings, with order books at record
levels and with additional long term
contracts already secured with major
blue chip companies. We remain firmly
committed to expansion and anticipate
further significant progress, both by
organic growth and selective acquisition,
in the year ahead.
Tim Ross
Chairman
3 September 2007
HARGREA V ES SERVICES
Hargreaves Services plc. Directors’ report and financial statements 31 May 2007 
Registered number 4952865
5
