 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 4 Harvey Nash Group plc
Chairman’s Statement
Ian Kirkpatrick Chairman
The outlook remains encouraging in our principal
markets around the world.
Financial Highlights 
Turnover for the year was up 25% to
£163.4m (2004: £130.9m) which yielded an
increase in gross profit of 20% to £32.0m
(2004: £26.7m). Operating profit* more than
doubled to £4.5m (2004: £2.0m). Profit
before tax rose to £1.2m (2004: loss of
£4.5m), a turnaround of £5.7m. 
Market Conditions
Since August 2003 we have indicated that
demand and activity levels were beginning
to improve, however, it was in the year
ended 31 January 2005 that we saw these
increased activity levels translate into actual
revenue and profit growth across all of our
markets. In the UK, the market for
permanent IT professionals was very strong
in the first half of the year. In Continental
Europe despite continued challenges facing
the Eurozone economies we were delighted
to be able to increase revenue and double
profits. The US continued its strong growth
and it is particularly satisfying that the
profits for the year now exceed those
achieved in 2001.
The IT Sector recovered strongly during
2004 with higher levels of requirements and
in some areas increases in margins and pay
rates. The recovery in the IT sector occurred
mainly in the first half as a result of a release
of pent up demand and new projects
coming on stream. The contracts business,
which picked up mainly in the second half of
last year, achieved significant growth and
there is some evidence that the margin
decline experienced over the last five years
may have bottomed out.
The Consulting business was affected in the
second half by a fall in business confidence
in the UK due to slowing consumer demand,
rising oil prices and uncertainty in interest
rates and therefore its results were below
our expectations for the final quarter. The
division quickly reduced headcount to
realign costs with revenues. 
Strategic Plan
Over the next three years, our markets are
expected to remain competitive and growth
rates, whilst stable, will be moderate. The
Group’s three year plan is designed to achieve
better than average market growth through
investment in headcount, infrastructure and
our new outsourcing services which will
generate long term visible revenues. This
investment is currently forecast to be £1.0m
over the next 12 months.
In the UK, growth will be driven by
increased geographical penetration
through opening self funding regional
satellite offices. In Europe, investment 
will mainly be focused on increasing
headcount in existing locations and
organic expansion into new territories. In
the US, the Group will seek to increase 
fee-earning capacity aggressively with 
new office openings and expansion of new
services throughout the existing network.
Ian Kirkpatrick
Chairman  Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5 Harvey Nash Group plc
The Group has already begun further
investment in its outsourcing services in the
UK and in the US. The Group will consolidate
its position as a leading provider of senior IT
management and technical professionals,
with substantial capabilities for outsourcing,
both onshore and offshore. Our unique
portfolio of services and increased fee-
earning capacity will maximise growth in
revenues and profits over the next three
years although in the short term the
investment required will inevitably hold back
our progress.
Employees 
The Board expresses its thanks to all the
Group’s staff for their continued
commitment and loyalty throughout the
year. In particular, we believe that their
professionalism, pace and urgency to
deliver, have been the most important
factors in the successful recovery of the
Group and they deserve full recognition. 
Board of Directors
To support the Group’s three year strategic
plan the Board is pleased to announce the
following changes. David Higgins, Chief
Executive Officer will become Executive
Deputy Chairman. Albert Ellis, Group Finance
Director will be promoted to Chief Executive
Officer. The Board will look to appoint a new
Group Finance Director and in the interim,
Albert Ellis will continue to perform the role
until a replacement is appointed. David
Treacher retires at the Annual General
Meeting and the Board would like to thank
him for his valuable contribution and wish
him well for the future. 
Outlook
In the UK, the demand for IT professionals
remains strong with the Resourcing division
continuing its growth. However, the lower
levels of business confidence have impacted
our Consulting division. Whilst still
profitable, Consulting’s revenues are likely to
be lower in the current year than last year. 
In Continental Europe the growth rates in
the first quarter are positive and activity
levels remain high. With higher margins and
improved productivity, this should translate
into strong profit growth.
In the US, the Group is investing significantly
in fee earners, infrastructure and
outsourcing in order to achieve
differentiation, critical mass and enhanced
national coverage. 
Whilst our progress in the current year will
be held back by the investment we are
making in our business and the lower level of
revenues within the Consulting division, the
overall outlook remains encouraging in our
principal markets around the world.
“Our unique portfolio of
services and increased
fee-earning capacity 
will maximise growth in
revenues and profits over
the next three years.”
