 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 6 Harvey Nash Group plc
David Higgins Chief Executive
We have delivered a strong financial performance
growing revenues and operating profits and
demonstrating the strength and quality of the
underlying business.
The Group’s unique portfolio of services 
and strong brand have positioned us well 
to take advantage of the improved market
conditions. As a result, we have delivered 
a strong financial performance, growing
revenues by 25% to £163.4m and operating
profits* up 127% to £4.5m, demonstrating
the strength and quality of its underlying
businesses.
The operating profit margin* of the Group
increased to 2.7% from 1.5% last year as the
Group realised the benefits of increased
volume from higher margin markets.
United Kingdom
Turnover in the UK was up 13.7% to £79.7m
(2004: £70.1m) with net operating profit**
up 90% to £2.2m (2004: £1.1m). 
In the first half year, demand for permanent
IT professionals increased as a result of
more projects coming on line. Once the
volume of projects improved, demand
picked up for flexible IT consultants,
positively affecting the Group’s IT
contracting business, which strengthened 
in the second half. 
In the offshore software development
business, investment began to pay off as 
the forward order book started rising again
following the end of a large project in
Continental Europe in August last year. 
In addition, the sales and marketing
investment which will drive this business
forward in the coming year, was initiated 
in the final quarter.
The Executive Search business experienced
strong demand in the first half year and the
number of interim managers on assignment
was steady. However, as business
confidence weakened towards the end of
the year, clients delayed key senior hiring
decisions and turnover fell back in the
second half.
Continental Europe
Turnover was up 13% to £59.5m (2004:
£52.9m) and operating profit* increased 
by 117% to £1.4m (2004: £0.6m). 
We indicated in April 2004 that activity
levels in Europe were picking up and
revenues were expected to increase even
though the larger European economies had
not yet returned to robust growth. This can
be seen in the 25% improvement in second
half revenues compared with the first half.
Profits in the second half rose by 54% when
compared with the first half, reflecting the
focus on higher margin services. 
In particular, the Benelux countries
experienced increasing numbers of
requirements as the market improved in the
second half of the year. In the Netherlands,
the Group adds value to clients through its
Managed Services, designed to provide
recruitment process outsourcing solutions
to large organisations such as Siemens.
Demand is strong for this service and 
profits in the second half were boosted
considerably as volumes improved. 
Chief Executive’s Statement
David Higgins
Chief Executive “The Group’s success is based on differentation 
and added value services.”
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7 Harvey Nash Group plc
In France, demand for our Consulting
services remained weak and the business
made a small loss for the year. In the current
year the Group is implementing its plan to
increase its focus on the IT market and
broadening the range of services offered.
Currently the expectation is that the
business as a whole will be profitable by
January 2006.
Germany returned to healthy growth in 
the year ended 31 January 2005 as the
business focussed on providing higher
margin value added services such as 
systems management outsourcing (to IBM
mainframe clients) and specialist candidates
through its SAP competency centre. 
Finally, Switzerland has successfully
leveraged the Group’s portfolio of services
to capitalise on the increasing demand for
permanent IT professionals in the banking
and insurance sector. 
United States
The US was the strongest market for our
services in the world last year. The Group
increased its revenues there by 223% to
£24.1m (2004: £7.4m) and its operating
profit** by 154% to £0.9m (£0.4m). This
growth is partly due to the full benefit of
acquisitions made during the previous year.
The Group opened an office in New Jersey
in October 2004. This is a key commercial
centre where many Fortune 500 companies
have relocated their back office operations
post September 11th. The start up
investment cost, included in the US
operating profit, was £0.1m. In line with the
Group’s strategy of differentiation through
added value services, a key part of the
service offered here is “outsourcing”, mainly
focused on infrastructure and help desk
operations. This office is now gaining
traction in its markets and is expected to
breakeven by January 2006. Winning any
one of a number of outsourcing proposals
which are currently under consideration at
prospective clients, will shorten the
budgeted time to profitability.
In December 2004, the Group acquired the
business and certain assets of Bluesuit
Consulting, a small niche IT Services
business in the Chicago area. This completes
the first stage of our strategic plan to
establish a presence in all the major cities in
the US.
Having grown revenues and profits so
aggressively over the last year, the Group is
now further strengthening its management
team with professional back office and
systems infrastructure which will enable 
the US business to grow to the next level.
Capacity has been created to provide a
sound platform to increase profits in the
medium term although the investment will
weigh heavily on results in the short term. 
In addition, the investment required to
establish an IT outsourcing service is
estimated to be in the region of £0.2m 
in the coming year. This will increase the
opportunity for the Group to continue its
strategy of focusing on added value services
in higher margin markets.
Group Overview
The Group’s success is based on
differentiation and added value services.
Investment in our IT outsourcing and
offshore services will be increased this 
year as clients are looking to their trusted
partners to take more control of their IT
resources. Harvey Nash is particularly well
placed with its unique portfolio of services
and strong brand to take advantage of these
growth opportunities. 
