 17
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
Chief
Executive’s
Review
eric prescott 18
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
Trading Review   
Interiors
Primark
Zoetermeer, Holland
Operating profit before exceptional costs increased 
from £0.7m in 2012 to £2.1m in 2013, despite a slight 
reduction in revenue from £85.3m to £82.2m. During 
the year, activity in the educational sector reduced as 
projects completed and new funding for developers 
was put in place. Growth in revenue from financial sector 
customers partially offset this and remained strong in 
both branch and office refits, together with rebranding 
programmes. Activity in the retail sector was steady 
and a number of new customer relationships have been 
secured which will allow further scope for growth in the 
future. These included the completion of projects for a 
major UK supermarket chain as well as a retailer primarily 
operating from out of town sites. Both of these represent 
new areas of activity for the business. Overseas revenue 
continues to grow and during the year a contract to 
support all of the Far East activities of a major UK based 
retailer was won. An order to supply equipment sourced 
from China to a large Australian retailer has recently 
been secured, which provides a further increase in our 
footprint and capabilities in the Asia Pacific region.
. 19
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
Primark
Vienna, Austria 20
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
The increased contribution from the division was a result of improved operational performance 
and efficiencies. The second half of the year benefitted from the investment in the new laser 
cutting machine which was operational from July onwards. This investment amounted to 
£0.7m and was supported by Scottish Enterprise. The first phase of investment in new drawing 
office software was also made in the period and this will improve efficiency as well as provide 
additional benefits to customers.
We intend to maintain the level of investment in the business and are currently finalising 
plans to replace the Group’s main IT systems, which date from the 1990’s and no longer work 
efficiently given the scale of change which has taken place in the Group’s activities since they 
were first installed.
Educational Supplies
Revenue from the educational supplies businesses, Teacherboards and Stage Systems, 
remained steady at £8.7m (2012: £8.8m) despite the run down in activity in this sector, 
which particularly affected Stage Systems. At Teacherboards, Direct to School sales remained 
steady and there was growth in the volume of web based sales, which is expected to become 
an increasing market for this business. Both businesses continue to work closely with the 
Interiors business and will benefit when its pipeline of major project opportunities converts 
to orders in the future. 21
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
eric prescott, chief executive
Management and Staff
During the year, the apprenticeship programme, the Havelock Academy, was successfully 
launched and 12 young people have joined the Group in both factory and office training 
schemes. We are continuing with this programme and, in addition, for the first time for a 
number of years, will be launching a graduate recruitment programme to fill vacancies in   
more highly skilled roles.
current Trading and p rospects
We expect a further reduction in the amount of work in the Educational sector in 2014. 
This position will reverse in future years as programmes which have already been announced 
are finalised and orders are placed for their delivery. The level of quotation activity is currently 
very high as a consequence.
With a number of new customers secured in new areas of the retail sector and new wins in 
the financial sector, we view the future with optimism. In the current year, we will secure the 
full benefits from the capital investments made in 2013. We are also finalising plans for further 
investments, all of which offer attractive pay back periods.
Overall, I am encouraged by the trading performance to date and expect to make further 
progress and continue to improve operational efficiency.
21
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
Primark
Vienna, Austria 22
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
22
Havelock europa plc 
Annu Al RepoR t 2013
