 Business structure and overview
The Haynes Group, founded by the Chairman John Haynes, OBE 
in 1960, has its operations divided into two primary geographical 
segments. Firstly, the UK and European businesses, which are 
serviced from headquarters in Sparkford, Somerset and secondly, 
the North American and Australia operation, which is also 
responsible for Latin America and the Pacific Rim and operates 
from headquarters near Los Angeles, California. The US business 
has its main production and principal distribution operations 
in Nashville, Tennessee. Each business segment has its own 
management structure and has full vehicle workshop and editorial 
resources, book manufacturing facilities and sales and distribution 
capabilities.
The success of the Haynes business over almost 50 years has 
been underpinned by an attention to detail and an uncompromising approach to independent and 
trustworthy instructional advice. This simple but important philosophy has been instrumental in 
the Group achieving its global market leading position. The fact that all Haynes Manuals are based 
on a complete vehicle strip-down and rebuild in one of our workshops, so that the written and 
photographic instructions for our customers is inherently practical and easy to follow, may still come 
as a surprise to some, but for those who know Haynes, this renowned attention to detail will be a 
familiar concept. 
In addition to our extensive range of automotive and motorcycle repair manuals, the Group publishes 
a wide range of titles which are practical, instructional and easy to read and aimed at those with an 
interest in motoring and motor sport as well as other transport, aviation, military and general DIY 
related activities. 
It would be unfair to our employees around the world not to acknowledge that the past financial year 
has been very difficult. With a start point in the USA in August last year, 
we have seen the current financial problems impact economies 
around the Globe. Their work has been made increasingly difficult as 
a result. I want to thank all of them for their continuing dedication and 
commitment.
In our Annual Report & Accounts last year I referred to a changing 
global market place. I mentioned how our market leading position 
throughout the English speaking world provides the Group with a 
unique opportunity to become a major world wide supplier for all 
automotive and motorcycle repair, servicing and technical information, 
to an overall market place that is growing and which is increasingly 
demanding content through multi-media channels. Therefore, the 
acquisition of the Vivid Group on 28 February 2008 for a cash 
consideration of € 8.0 million (£6.0 million), funded mainly through 
internal cash but also with limited short-term borrowings, was a very  
important strategic move for the Group. 
Formed in 1996, Vivid is a dynamic group of companies, still in their early growth 
phase. Nevertheless, Vivid’s database, which has been developed using market 
leading digital technology and is available in 19 languages, has already established the 
business as market leaders in the supply of digital technical information to the professional 
automotive market in continental Europe. The synergistic skill sets possessed by Vivid were a key 
factor in our decision to acquire the business. Vivid’s in-house skills covering language translation, 
web development, DVD production and copy protection security are all complementary to the way 
10
Group Chief Executive’s Review 11
in which Haynes is planning to develop its own product offerings going forward. This could open up 
the possibility of an internet based multi-language Haynes consumer product for markets that could 
not previously have supported the cost of a print based product. Being part of the Haynes Group, 
opens up the opportunity to take the Vivid product offering to new geographical markets such as the 
UK, USA and Australia where Haynes already has a strong presence whereas Vivid does not. 
Earlier in the year the acquisition of Bookworks, the most prominent distributor of automotive repair 
information in Australia, further cemented our position as the leading supplier of automotive repair 
information to the automotive aftermarket in Australia.
Operating results overview 
At the end of November, our half year, Group pre-tax profit was 8% down on the prior period 
and early third quarter trading remained difficult. Nevertheless, as mentioned in our third quarter 
Interim Management Statement, Management believed that there was a realistic 
possibility of improving on this position by the end of the financial year. I am 
therefore, pleased to report that the Group has been able to deliver an improved 
second half performance with Group pre-tax profits for the year of £7.1 million, 
matching the performance of the prior year (2007: £7.1 million). Our second half 
performance was achieved despite a higher charge to profit of £0.1 million for 
cost restructuring in the UK business and a higher charge against profit of £0.2 
million arising from our IAS 19 pension scheme accounting in comparison to 
last year. Save for these two non-trading factors and the adverse impact of the 
US Dollar exchange rate against Sterling, which lowered pre-tax profits by £0.2 
million, we would have been reporting a growth in pre-tax profits of 7%, in line 
with our growth in revenue, which, I believe, in the prevailing market conditions, 
would be seen as very satisfactory. 
Group revenue during the period was up 7% to £31.1million (2007: £29.2 
million) boosted by the new acquisitions during the year which, in aggregate, 
added £1.6 million to our top line. Exchange rate movements had a detrimental impact 
on our reportable revenue, with an average US Dollar exchange rate against Sterling 4% 
weaker than last year. Had we been reporting under constant exchange rates, Group 
revenue would have ended the year higher by £0.7 million. 
In the US, trading conditions softened significantly during the second quarter and 
remained soft throughout the rest of the year. The problems in the financial markets 
coupled with the spiralling cost of fuel have significantly dampened consumer demand 
and we wait to see whether the recent fiscal stimulus provides a respite in the coming 
months. In the UK, like-for-like revenue performed well finishing the year 10% ahead of last year. It 
should, however, be noted that a significant proportion of this increase came from external printing 
services, where the margin is traditionally much lower than our core products. This said it was 
satisfying to see all three areas of the UK business Automotive, General Publishing and Licensing 
achieving revenue growth over the prior year. With the inclusion of three months of trading from Vivid 
Holding BV, revenue in the UK & Europe increased by 18% to £13.9 million (2007: £11.8 million).
Gross margins were impacted by a higher mix of low margin external printing services in the UK and 
lower volumes in 2008 in the USA, which resulted in the gross margin percentage ending the year 
lower at 61.3% (2007: 64.1%).
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) Management continue to maintain a tight control over Group overheads. During the third quarter, the 
UK business restructured its promotional design, direct mail and web sales operation resulting in one 
off restructuring costs of £0.1 million. Also during the third quarter the role of the Group Company 
Secretary was combined with that of the UK & European Finance Director; both of these measures 
will bring cost benefits to the Group in the coming year.
Following a higher return on the Group’s pension scheme assets of £0.4 million, finance income 
increased to £1.5 million (2007: £1.1 million). Partially offsetting the higher finance income was a 
higher interest charge on the pension scheme’s liabilities of £0.2 million, which led to an increase in 
finance costs to £1.4 million (2007: £1.2 million).
The resulting net impact of the above meant that pre-tax profits ended the year in line with the prior 
year at £7.1million (2007: £7.1 million).
Segmental overview 
North America and Australia 
As a result of the acquisition of Bookworks in Australia local currency sales in North 
America and Australia ended the year 3% ahead of last year at $34.6 million (2007: 
$33.7 million). Despite stronger sales of automotive repair manuals during the 
important second half of the year, up 4% on the comparable period, sales were 
not quite able to offset the poor first half and ended the year down 2%. Sales of 
Motorcycle manuals performed well ending the year 14% ahead of the prior period.  
In Australia the integration of the Haynes and Bookworks businesses was completed 
part way through the year and the combined business, operating from newly 
purchased premises in Sydney, contributed an additional $1.4 million (£0.7 million) of 
revenue during the first year.
Revenue from the new US website, whilst modest in Group terms, has already 
covered the cost of development and through the use of video presentations and a 
customer chat room allows the US business to communicate directly and more effectively 
with its end user.
The net impact of the above factors left the North American and Australian operating 
profits, in local currency 5% ahead of the prior year at $10.2 million (2007: $9.7 million). 
However, after a lower credit to profit arising on the measurement of the US pension 
scheme under IAS 19, in comparison to last year, of £0.4 million and after the impact 
of a higher average exchange rate which adversely impacted profits by £0.2 million, US 
segmental profits in Sterling ended the year 7% lower at £5.5 million (2007: £5.9 million).
United Kingdom and Europe
•      Automotive 
Revenue from our core Haynes manuals performed strongly during the first six months, ending 
the period 9% ahead of the prior year. Sales slowed down during the second half of the year but 
nevertheless, still ended the year 1% ahead of the prior period. The UK also experienced revenue 
growth from foreign language Manual sales, up 8% and Motorcycle titles ahead by 5%. Volume 
sales of English language manuals to Scandinavia ended the year ahead by 16% helped by the 
recruitment of a new sales manager at the half year.
 
12
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) 13
•      General Publishing 
Sales of Haynes Book Division titles performed strongly during 
the second half of the year, finishing the second six months 
21% ahead of the prior period. As a result, overall Haynes Book 
Division sales ended the year 8% ahead of last year. Sales of 
the Spitfire Manual, the legendary World War II Supermarine 
aircraft which provides a unique insight into the engineering and 
construction of this remarkable aeroplane and is based around 
the restoration of the Spitfire Mk XVI at RAF Coningsby, ended the year as 
the Division’s top selling title, selling over 20,000 copies to-date. Elsewhere, 
there were year-on-year sales increases in the Haynes Practical Manual 
series and Home & Computing series, both up 12% and the Bike series up 
37% helped by a new release of the Haynes Bike Book, now in its 5th Edition 
and with lifetime sales in excess of 300,000 copies. 
Sales through the licensing channel, whilst modest in Group terms, have tripled in the last 12 
months and continue to gather momentum. Income from our licensed boys clothing range with 
Next, the high street retailer, continues to perform well with the range being extended to include 
boys’ nightwear and bedding.  In autumn 2007 we launched the new Haynes combustion engine 
toy, which sold very well over the Christmas period and we are encouraged by the interest from new 
retail outlets for the coming year. All of these new product ranges provide Haynes with excellent 
exposure to a younger audience and help to ensure the message that DIY can be fun if learnt from 
an early age.
The net impact of the above factors led to an increase in UK & European like-for-like revenue of 
10% to £13.0 million (2007: £11.8 million). After inclusion of three months of trading from the newly 
acquired Vivid Group, revenue increased to £13.9 million, an increase of 18%. UK & European 
segmental profits increased during the year to £1.3 million (2007: £1.1 million), an increase of 18%.
Taxation 
The charge to taxation on continuing operations for the year was £2.0 million (2007: £1.9 million) 
giving an effective tax rate of 29% (2007: 27%). Last year’s effective rate being slightly lower than 
normal due to the availability of loss relief from the operations discontinued during the year.
Net debt and cash flows 
The Group started the financial year under review with net funds of £6.5 million. During the year the 
Group made two acquisitions for a cash consideration of £6.6 million (excluding transaction costs) 
and purchased a new freehold property to accommodate the combined Australian operation for 
£0.9 million. Accordingly, to end the year with a small but nevertheless positive net funds position 
demonstrates the Group’s ability to generate strong cash flows which is a major benefit to the Group 
in its effort to grow the business. 
During the year cash generated from continuing operations was £7.0 million (2007: £7.6 million) and 
represented 100% of Group operating profit from continuing operations (2007: 106%). 
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) 14
Treasury management & procedures 
The Group’s treasury policies are designed to reduce and minimise financial risk and ensure sufficient 
liquidity for the Group’s future needs. The Group operates strict controls over all treasury transactions 
including dual signatories and appropriate authorisation limits. The Group’s principal financial 
instruments comprise overdrafts, lease financing arrangements and cash. The main purpose of 
these instruments is to finance the Group’s working capital requirements as well as funding its capital 
expenditure programmes. No trading in financial instruments is undertaken. 
The Group’s main currency exposure is derived from trading transactions between Group operating 
units and with our global customer base. Approximately 48% (2007: 57%) of our revenue streams 
are generated in US Dollars, 38% (2007: 36%) in sterling and the balance coming from a mix of 
currencies across our operating entities. Although the Group has this exposure to currencies it is able 
to offset part of the currency risk as much of the product for the European markets is manufactured 
in the US and invoiced in local currency.
Pensions 
The Group has a number of different retirement programmes in the countries within which it 
operates. The principal pension programmes are a contributory defined benefit scheme in 
the UK and a non-contributory defined benefit plan in the US. 
As at 31 May 2008 the aggregate deficit on the two retirement benefit schemes was £6.8 
million (2007: £6.9 million). The lower deficit reflects a reduction in the present value of the 
combined schemes defined benefit obligations of £1.4 million, principally as a result of an 
increased discount rate assumption of 6.6% (2007: 5.6%) applied by the UK Scheme 
actuaries in line with International Accounting Standard 19. However, the gain on the 
lower liabilities was mostly offset by lower returns on the combined schemes assets of 
£1.3 million.
Group Outlook 
In today’s economic climate of rising fuel prices and higher cost of living expenses, there is 
a clear financial benefit to the consumer from using a Haynes Manual.  Each Haynes manual 
contains tips for saving fuel as well as showing motorists how they can save money on garage 
bills by doing simple servicing and maintenance tasks themselves. Through our marketing 
initiatives and end user promotions we will continue to spread this message. 
In the UK and Europe, management will continue their focus on efficiency. It is essential 
that the business is able to offer quality products, in a cost effective manner and in a 
format that our end user requires. Already the first Haynes foreign language title has been 
passed to Vivid for translation, saving on external translation costs, and Management 
from Haynes and Vivid will continue to explore new opportunities for both businesses 
including taking the first steps toward the creation of a Vivid sales presence in the UK. 
For Haynes this will involve looking at the platforms and channels for distributing our 
instructional, technical and repair information and for Vivid it will be further development 
of their digital technical information on repair, maintenance and diagnosis to the 
professional automotive aftermarket and expansion into new markets where currently 
they have limited or no presence.
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) 15
In the Haynes Book Division, the new title programme for the coming year is the 
largest yet and should help the Division improve upon the sales growth of recent 
years.  In the Haynes Licensing division the new partnership with iconic British jeans 
company Lee Cooper to produce a range of men’s clothing for release in the autumn 
of 2008 should help further promote the Haynes brand and cement our association 
with some of the UK’s leading brands.
In North America a new print advertising campaign began this month focussing on the 
opportunity to reduce motoring costs in difficult times by working with a 
Haynes Manual and we will be working with our customers to encourage 
them to support this message with their promotional activities. This will also 
be a part of our marketing effort in all operating companies. In Australia, 
the Haynes businesses can look forward to their first full year of trading as 
a combined business and attention will be given to developing both the 
automotive repair information and general publishing areas of the business. 
Work is also already underway to expand the Vivid data to include 
Australian vehicles. We are also in the early stages of researching the 
US market in relation to Vivid products. Considerable in–house research 
has already been undertaken and an ad hoc market research project will 
follow shortly to determine the requirements for US market entry.
Undoubtedly the macroeconomic environment that we face in financial 
year 2009 is going to be difficult in all our key markets, and with many 
twists and turns yet to be revealed. This is an area of obvious ongoing 
concern. However, the Haynes Group is financially strong and operationally 
well placed to take on these challenges. Over the past five years, the Group has been quietly 
repositioning itself. We continue to assess opportunities for geographic expansion of the Haynes 
core products into a few rapidly developing markets as well as other opportunities for positive 
investment. Through careful restructuring of its existing business coupled with a desire and capability 
to acquire new businesses, the Group is putting in place the platforms to make Haynes the supplier 
of first choice for ‘Do–it–Yourself’ and Professional Mechanics, throughout the World, for those who 
have a need for all automotive and motorcycle repair, servicing and technical information.
Eric Oakley
Group Chief Executive
4 September 2008
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued)
