 Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
Strategically, this has been an important year for the Haynes Group. 
The financial year began with the acquisition of the Bookworks 
businesses in Australia in June 2007. By the end of the second 
quarter we were able to report the successful integration of the 
Bookworks and Haynes Australian businesses into a single location 
based in Sydney. This was followed at the end of our third quarter 
by the acquisition of Vivid Holding BV. 
The acquisition of the Vivid Group, Europe’s leading supplier of 
digital technical information on repair, maintenance and diagnostics 
to workshops, allows the Haynes Group to establish a presence 
in the professional automotive market and is a very  significant 
addition to the Haynes Group. 
The above strategic acquisitions come during a period of heavily 
publicised economic downturn. The weakness of the US Dollar against Sterling has once again had a 
negative impact for the Group. During the year, the average US Dollar exchange rate against Sterling 
increased from $1.93 to $2.01, reducing the reported revenue by £0.7 million and pre-tax profits 
by £0.2 million. The increased cost of living, largely as a result of the higher fuel prices, continues 
to impact consumer spending in both our key geographical markets as well as impacting our cost 
base, placing pressure on margins. In light of these challenging market conditions it is satisfying 
to report that, as a result of prudent action by our senior management team, we have had a 
stronger second half year of trading. As a result the Group was able to recover the shortfall in profit 
experienced during the first half of the year.
 Results summary
Group revenue from continuing operations was £31.1 million, 7% up on the 
prior year (2007: £29.2 million) driven by a full year contribution from the 
Australian acquisition and three months of trading from Vivid Holding BV, 
acquired at the end of our third quarter. Group operating profit from continuing 
operations was £7.0 million (2007: £7.2 million), down 3% impacted by certain 
one-off restructuring costs in the UK, a lower credit to the Income Statement 
following the performance of the pension schemes as measured by IAS 19 
and the negative impact of the weakened US Dollar. However, with a positive 
net movement on the pension schemes assets/liabilities Group pre-tax 
profits ended the year in line with the prior year at £7.1 million (2007: £7.1 
million).  The Group’s effective tax rate for the year, on attributable profits, was 
29% (2007: 27%) leading to a basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations of 30.8 pence (2007: 31.6 pence).
Strategy & structure
In last year’s report I communicated our central objective of 
creating a platform that would allow the Haynes businesses 
to grow and develop and firmly establish the Group as global 
industry experts for the supply of automotive and motorcycle 
repair, servicing and technical information. 
Through the acquisition of Vivid Holding the Group has made 
a considerable leap forward in achieving this aim and work is 
currently underway to develop new product initiatives using the 
cutting edge Vivid digital platforms and the extensive Haynes 
automotive knowledge database.  The Group will continue to 
take the tried, tested and trusted Haynes philosophy and apply 
it to other areas where our practical approach can add value. The launch of the Spitfire and 
Lancaster Manuals during the year, in partnership with the RAF, have been very well received 
and visibly demonstrate the diversity of the Haynes brand. 
8 The Board
In May 2008, I was pleased to announce the appointment of my son J as Group Vice Chairman. 
J has had a seat at the main Board since March 2000 and as Managing Director of the UK & 
European operations has, working with the rest of the Executive Management team, played an 
important part in the restructuring and development of the UK & European businesses.
Dividends 
In light of the difficult trading conditions and following the two acquisitions during the year, which 
were predominantly funded from internal cash, the interim dividend was reduced to 5.0p (2007: 
5.5p). However, following a stronger second half performance and a confidence that the new 
enlarged Haynes Group is well placed to deliver earnings growth in the coming years the Board is 
recommending an increase in the final dividend to 10.5p per share, maintaining the total dividend for 
the year at 15.5p, the same level as last year (2007: 15.5p). Subject to final approval by shareholders, 
the final dividend will be paid on 30 October 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 3 October 2008. The shares will be declared ex-dividend on 1 October 2008.
Corporate governance
The Board’s governance framework is clearly defined and aims to support the vision and values 
of our business and to protect and enhance the interests of all our 
stakeholders. The Board actively monitors the assessment and 
mitigation of risk and ensures the Group has the correct health & 
safety procedures to protect all our employees.  Further details are 
discussed in greater depth in the relevant sections of this Annual 
Report and Accounts.
Staff
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our employees for their 
continued hard work and dedication during the year. I would also like 
to welcome our new employees in Bookworks Australia, and at Vivid in 
The Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Romania to the Haynes Group. 
The Group continues to re-position its businesses to make them 
leaner, more innovative and better equipped to deliver content 
aligned to the needs and wants of the end user. This process 
can sometimes be difficult for all concerned but I am confident 
that through this process we place the Group in a stronger 
position, both financially and operationally. This will undoubtedly 
benefit employees and our shareholders in the years to come.
Future prospects
I firmly believe the prospects for the Haynes Group are positive. 
It is undeniable that the world’s economies are facing their most 
challenging future for many years. However, we have been here 
before and I am confident that through careful management 
we can once again steer the Group through these uncertain times. The restructuring undertaken 
over recent years, coupled with the new acquisitions during the year, places the Group in a strong 
position to move forward and improve on our results in the years to come.
 
John H Haynes, OBE
Executive Chairman
4 September 2008
9
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
