 10
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Business structure
The Haynes Group comprises two geographic operating units.
The European business, headquartered in Sparkford, Somerset has 
subsidiaries in The Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Romania and Sweden. Its 
core business remains the publication of DIY Repair Manuals for Cars and 
Motorcycles, but since the acquisition of Vivid it is also now one of the major 
suppliers of technical information to the professional sector of the automotive 
aftermarket around Europe. All Vivid products are produced and sold in 
electronic formats. The European business also publishes a wide range of titles 
which are practical, instructional and easy to read and aimed at those with an 
interest in motoring and motor sport as well as other transport, aviation, military 
and general DIY related activities. The Group is also able to announce that in 
an association with The Daily Mirror this business also now produces a range 
of high profile titles utilising the Mirror’s photo archive on such topics as The 
Rolling Stones, The Beatles and Manchester United.
The North American business, headquartered near Los Angeles, California publishes DIY Repair Manuals for Cars 
and Motorcycles under the Haynes and Chilton brands, in both the English and Spanish languages. It also has 
a branch operation in Sydney, Australia which publishes similar products under both the Haynes and Gregory’s 
brands. The Australian business also publishes information for the professional market. Following the sale of the 
loss making UK Printing operation, it is anticipated that the North American business will be the producer of all 
Group printed product.
Business overview 
The impact of the ongoing financial crisis was first felt in the Group’s US operation in August 2007, when major 
retail customers began cutting reorder quantities to conserve cash. Six months later we were experiencing similar 
conditions in the UK and Australia. So far, despite a couple of false starts, we have yet to see any indication 
of real recovery. Historically, in recessionary cycles the Group has benefited from increased sales. Yet to-date, 
despite indications of higher consumer DIY activity, the more dominant factors 
have been the impact of sustained and very low inventory levels at retail and 
fewer motorists changing their cars, which is often the trigger point for a new 
manual purchase.
However, due to a combination of the effect of the acquisition of Vivid, 
including the capitalisation of the Vivid software development costs to bring 
in line with Group policy and International Accounting Standards, which 
increased profit by £1.7 million and favourable exchange rate movements, 
the Group is able to report revenues up 14%, operating profit up by 9% 
and pre tax profit in line with last year. We have also significantly improved 
the net cash position, even after allowing for the  
significant investments made in the last 18 months or so.  
We remain confident that as the economy recovers in our major markets we will see a return 
to more normal levels of replenishment by our main customers and that as car sales return to 
higher levels more consumers will need to replace their trusted Haynes Manual. 
As a result of the “early warning” we received in our US business, management was able to 
establish a plan of cash conservation and cost control measures early in the recessionary cycle. 
These measures included a review of our inventory levels and print run strategy, a review of 
working capital policies and a review of head count and overheads. The actions arising from 
these reviews have been, and continue to be, taken in a controlled and measured manner so as 
not to create instability in our businesses. 
The sale of our UK print division in February 2009 was a key strategic move for the Group. The sale not only 
eliminates what was a loss making part of the business but in the process, helps to simplify the UK operations, 
allowing a greater focus on those areas of the business with higher margins. However, this does not signify a 
move away from printed material or from in-house printing. As a business, we recognise there is still a significant 
demand for our manuals in a printed format and we remain committed to our paper product. After a thorough  11
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued)
study conducted by management during the course of the year, we also remain confident in our 
ability to print in-house more cheaply than we can outsource printed material from overseas. Hence, 
the £1.8 million ($3.0 million) of expenditure incurred earlier in the year on a new and significantly 
faster binding line at our US print facility which has increased binding capacity and will provide 
significant printing efficiencies for the Group going forward as will the decision to add significantly to 
our digital printing capabilities in Nashville.
Our experience with the Vivid electronic product has been similar to the above experience in that 
many new projects were placed on hold as the crisis deepened. Once again though, management 
remain confident that we are well placed to resume more normal growth as the recovery begins. 
Operating results overview 
Certain factors which are outside our control have had a significant impact on our reported results for 
the year, the most notable being the weakening of the US Dollar against Sterling during the period. 
Having lived with exchange rates in excess of $1.95 for the whole of the previous financial year, we 
first started to see rates fall during September/October 2008, dropping below the $1.40 
level in March of this year. However, the rate started to creep back up again towards the 
end of our fourth quarter, ending the financial year at $1.61. As a result our average rate 
for the 12 months ending 31 May fell from $2.01 last year to $1.64 this year, a swing of 
18%, increasing the Group’s reportable revenue by £3.5 million and pre-tax profits by 
£0.8 million.
Group revenue increased by 14% to £35.3 million (2008: £31.1 million) boosted 
by the inclusion of a first full year of Vivid and the beneficial impact of exchange 
rates. In North America and Australia, revenue in local currency, was down 10% 
due to the inventory reductions mentioned earlier. However, following the beneficial 
impact of exchange rates, segmental revenue was up 10% at £18.9 million (2008: 
£17.2 million). It was a similar position in the UK, where sales of our core Haynes 
Manuals were impacted by tighter inventory and working capital management by 
key retailers and a weaker general publishing sector, which was characterised by 
heavy discounting and higher returns. The segmental revenue for the UK and European 
operations includes a full year of trading from Vivid, against a three month period last year, 
adding an additional £3.2 million to revenue. As a result revenue in the UK & European 
operations ended the year 18% higher at  
£16.4 million (2008: £13.9 million). 
Gross margins have been affected by a number of factors during the year. On a positive 
note and as previously mentioned, this is the first full year of reporting the results for Vivid 
which, as an established high tech software business, operates with a low asset base and good 
margins. Following the acquisition by Haynes, the accounting treatment for software development 
costs has been brought into line with Group policy and International Accounting Standards ( IAS 
38 ‘Intangible Assets’) whereby the costs of both internal and external qualifying development 
expenditure are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over 5 years. Accordingly, the 
inclusion of Vivid for a full year added 340 basis points to the Group’s gross margin. 
Also, whilst the disposal of the loss making UK print operation late into our financial year has had 
only a limited impact on margins during the current year, we do expect a more noticeable benefit to 
accrue to the Group in future years. On the downside, the reduction in sales volumes of core Haynes 
Manuals in both the US and the UK coupled with consolidation in the supply chain of our principal 
raw material, increasing raw material costs, has had a negative impact on the Group’s margins. The 
overall net impact has been to increase gross margin for the year to 62.1% (2008: 61.3%).
Trading overheads increased by £2.3 million in the course of the year, with the impact of exchange 
on the US numbers, inflating overhead costs by £1.4 million and the inclusion of Vivid for a full 
year adding £1.1 million of overhead cost. Overall, there has been a net decrease in the underlying 
overheads of £0.2 million.
The net impact of the above factors left Group operating profit up 9% at £7.6 million (2008: £7.0 million). During the year, the impact of the global economic downturn led to a lower return on our pension 
scheme assets and a higher charge on our pension scheme liabilities; as a result the net finance 
cost arising from our two defined benefit schemes was £0.4 million. This coupled with net bank 
interest payable of £0.1 million, following last year’s acquisitions and higher capital expenditure in the 
US and Australia led to a net finance cost of £0.5 million.
 
The net impact of the above is that pre-tax profits ended the year in line with last year at £7.1 million 
(2008: £7.1 million).
Segmental overview 
North America and Australia
The pace of inventory reductions by retailers actually accelerated during the course of the year with 
the result that, in local currency, revenue from the North American and Australian operations fell by 
10% to $31.0 million (2008: $34.6 million). Fortunately, we were able to offset some of this impact by 
increasing our selling prices at the end of last year. 
The Chairman has already mentioned the fact that we have yet to see improvements 
in trading conditions with our main retail customers. There has been much discussion 
in recent weeks concerning the absence of the development of growth in top line 
revenue not only among retailers but also among a wide variety of companies across 
the United States. Our own experience remains that customers for our core product 
continue to be focussed on the reduction of inventories and maintaining them at very 
low levels. As an example, knowing that there would be a negative impact on their 
sales, one of our major customers recently took the decision to reduce on hand 
quantities in stores from two per title to one, clearly this had a significant impact on 
replenishment orders.
In the US, we have expanded our advertising and continue to focus on the fact that 
DIY can save money. We also teamed up with the Car Care Council to promote 
National Car Care month. We continue to promote the cost saving benefits of 
owning a Haynes manual. 
Experience in Australia has been a virtual mirror image of that in the US except that it 
occurred somewhat later.
Reduced segmental operating profits for North America and Australia in local currency (down 
24% at $8.4 million (2008: $11.0 million) were partially offset by positive exchange rate 
movements.  As a result, reportable segmental operating profits ended the year 7% lower at 
£5.1 million (2008: £5.5 million).
United Kingdom and Europe
•   Automotive
In the UK, similar inventory reduction programmes by retailers impacted sales of Haynes manuals 
although the effect of the customer de-stocking was partially offset by price increases in the second 
quarter. Overall sales revenue from Haynes Manuals ended the year 8% down on the prior year.
In Sweden, similar market conditions were compounded by the relocation of a major customer 
which led to the suspension of ordering for several months. As a result, sales in Sweden ended the 
year down 22% on the prior year. 
On the electronic side of the business, Vivid released two new products during the year. Firstly, 
Vivid Workshop Organiser, a management tool to help garages organise and run their workshops 
more efficiently and secondly, the ground breaking Vivid Cars Electronic Data (also known as Vivid 
Electronics Smart Assistant). This new module allows independent workshops to diagnose and 
repair modern car electronics quickly and effectively by allowing mechanics to conduct an intelligent, 
step-by-step diagnosis using a vast database of smart diagrams containing only the components 
relevant to each stage of the diagnosis. 
 
The initial feedback on this exciting new technology has been very positive and is a further example 
of the electronic expertise brought into the Group following the acquisition of Vivid.
12
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) 13
•   General Publishing
Revenue in the Haynes Book division ended the year 8% down on the prior year, which is a credible 
performance given the difficult economic backdrop. The publishing sector has suffered from higher 
levels of returns and we were no exception, seeing returns from retailers increasing by 20% over 
the prior year. The market has also experienced unusually high volumes of heavily deep discounted 
stock, as publishers seek to reduce inventory levels and turn old idle stock into cash. Nevertheless, 
despite these difficult trading conditions we have seen strong sales of the new RAF titles, the Spitfire 
Manual and the Lancaster Manual, both of which finished in the divisions top 5 selling titles. Also, in 
March 2009, one of our titles Regga: The Extraordinary Two Lives of Clay Regazzoni by Christopher 
Hilton won the prestigious Best Biography at the British Sports Book Awards, sponsored by the 
Times. This is the first time one of our titles has won the prestigious award and with four of our other 
titles also nominated for other awards, this is a strong indicator as to the strength in depth of the 
divisions publishing programme. One of the titles nominated in the Best Illustrated Book category 
‘When Football was Football’ was one of two titles published for the 2008 Christmas market in 
partnership with The Daily Mirror. Under the new arrangement, Haynes has a license to research the 
extensive picture library of The Daily Mirror to produce a series of highly illustrated titles using the 
photographic and written archives of the Daily Mirror. Further titles with a wide audience appeal are 
scheduled for the coming year.
The Haynes licensing programme has now firmly established itself as an integral part of the UK 
business. Whilst not large in revenue or contribution terms, this division brings to the Group 
extremely valuable exposure to markets and partners that it would not be easy to replicate 
with our more traditional products and is an extremely useful source of new product ideas and 
initiatives.  
As a result of the above, coupled with a full year of Vivid reporting, UK & European segmental 
profits increased to £2.2 million (2008: £1.3 million). 
 
Taxation
The charge to taxation on continuing operations for the year was £2.3 million (2008: £2.0 
million) giving an effective tax rate of 32% (2008: 29%). The increase in the effective rate 
reflects the higher proportion of profits generated from overseas operations where the 
corporate tax rates are higher than in the UK.
Net debt, working capital and cash flows
Following the acquisition of Vivid Holding BV in February 2008 for a total cash consideration of £6.2 
million, we started the year with net cash of £0.2 million. However, with a weak second quarter’s 
trading, coupled with the installation of the new binding line in the US, for a cost of £1.8 million 
($3.0 million), we were reporting a net debt position of £1.4 million at the half year. Early in the 
recessionary cycle, management identified the pay down of the Group’s net debt as a key driver 
for the business and initiatives were put in place to help facilitate this. These initiatives together with 
stronger second half trading, albeit still behind last year, and the sale of our UK print operation at 
the end of our third quarter for £0.4 million resulted in the Group closing the year with a net cash 
position of a positive £1.4 million. 
The conversion of profit into cash is a key factor for any business and during the year the cash 
generated before tax was £9.3 million (2008: £7.0 million) and represented 123% of Group operating 
profit (2008: 100%). 
We continue to closely monitor and manage our working capital and introduced a number of 
measures during the year to reduce our physical inventory. This included a review of first print run 
sizes, initiatives to more quickly identify and clear down slow moving stocks and a review of our 
general publishing reprint strategy given the advances in digital short-run printing technology. Whilst 
we will not see the benefit from all of these initiatives immediately, management is confident that 
through the actions and decisions taken to-date, physical inventory levels can be reduced in the 
short to medium term. In fact, despite the additional stock from our new title programmes, inventory 
levels are already 0.3 million units lower than at this time last year. From a monetary perspective, the 
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) 14
efforts we are making with regards working capital has been somewhat masked by the impact of 
exchange, which for inventories has increased the balance sheet value by £1.1 million and for trade 
receivables by £1.7 million. 
Treasury management & procedures
The Group’s funding policies are designed to reduce and minimise financial risk and ensure sufficient 
liquidity for the Group’s future needs. The Group maintains a regular dialogue with its banking 
partners to ensure the Group has appropriate committed and uncommitted facilities to support the 
Group’s commercial activities and growth strategy. Strict controls are maintained over all treasury 
transactions including dual signatories and appropriate authorisation limits. The Group’s principal 
financial instruments comprise overdrafts, lease financing arrangements and cash. The main purpose 
of these instruments is to finance the Group’s working capital requirements as well as funding its 
capital expenditure programmes. No trading in financial instruments is undertaken. 
Foreign exchange
The Group’s main currency exposure is derived from trading transactions between Group operating 
units and with our global customer base. Approximately 47% (2008: 48%) of the Group’s revenue 
streams are generated in US Dollars, 32% (2008: 38%) in Sterling, 12% in Euro’s (2008: 4%) with 
the balance coming from a mix of currencies across our operating entities. The increase in the 
Euro content reflected a full year of trading from Vivid. Although the Group has this exposure to 
currencies it is able to offset part of the currency risk as much of the product for the European 
markets is manufactured in the US and invoiced in local currency.
Pensions
The Group has a number of different retirement programmes in the countries within which it 
operates. The principal pension programmes are a contributory defined benefit scheme in the 
UK, a non-contributory defined benefit plan in the US and defined contribution scheme in The 
Netherlands.
As at 31 May 2009 the aggregate deficit on the two retirement benefit schemes was £10.4 
million (2008: £6.8 million). The increase in the deficit is primarily due to the impact of the 
economic downturn on the market value of the asset portfolio, with actuarial shortfalls on the 
UK and US schemes during the year of £1.6 million and £1.6 million respectively. In addition, 
the impact of exchange added a further £0.3 million to the value of the deficit.
The Group funds its pension contributions based on actuarial valuations which are undertaken 
annually in the US and triennially in the UK, with the latest UK triennial valuation being for the 
Scheme year ended 30 June 2008.
Group outlook
Trading conditions so far in the first quarter remain challenging in all our main markets. Nevertheless, 
overall Group revenue is in line with last year. The Group will release its first quarter interim 
management statement at the end of September, when we will be better placed to update 
stakeholders on the first quarters trading and market conditions in the lead up to our half year.
Over the past few years management have implemented significant changes within the  
Haynes Group. 
These changes began with the disposal of loss making subsidiaries and the closure of 
divisions and departments which did not add value, and these moves continued during the 
past year with the sale of the UK Printing Operation (which lost £0.6 million last year) but also included 
acquisitions like Vivid, which not only broaden the base of the Group in the Automotive area, but also 
expand its area of core competence into the technologically driven arena.
We have also implemented new IT systems, especially in the UK, where we have replaced our 
‘abacus’ with a state of the art system, giving management much better opportunities to access 
information that helps interpret and develop the business in a real time environment.
We have also added an award winning licensing program which, while not yet significant in overall 
terms, shows signs of contributing quite nicely to profitability, as well as expanding brand exposure 
to a very significant degree. 
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued) 15
There have also been new initiatives in the general publishing area such as the addition of the 
Military and Aviation list and the new “MirrorPix” project with the Daily Mirror, which we believe 
offer very nice potential.
These moves have been made in a considered fashion, and structured in such a way as to 
expand the Group’s opportunities for growth while at the same time limiting the disruption to an 
extremely competent team that has been developed over many years. I want to add my own 
compliments, to those the Chairman has made earlier, to a staff who have produced results 
which many companies could only dream of, and in conditions which none of us thought we 
would ever face. 
Our plans are to utilise the Vivid technology on Haynes products, expanding 
opportunities into new web delivered products in other languages which could not 
have previously supported a printed product while at the same time enhancing the 
Vivid product in the professional arena by including complementary content from the 
Haynes product base. These programs are under way.
The upgrading of our Digital Printing Facility which is now taking place in Nashville 
will not only, over the course of time, enable us to reduce overall General Publishing 
inventory, it will also enable us to print much shorter runs and create additional sales 
opportunities as a result, by keeping titles in print which would otherwise have been 
discontinued.
We will continue with the development and implementation of these projects as 
well as the pursuit of profitable acquisition opportunities.
These moves are underpinned by the fundamental strength of our core business in DIY 
manuals for cars and motorcycles. Despite the lost sales in these areas in recent years we continue 
to believe that as long as cars are built, there will be a core of DIY enthusiasts who will prefer to do 
work on their vehicles themselves and save significant amounts of money. With a huge market share 
in English speaking territories, Haynes continues to lead the world in this area of our business. The 
Manual business also generates sufficient cash flow to support the initiatives mentioned previously.
A massively over leveraged society has been forced into very heavy de-leveraging in the past two 
years. There are commentators now, especially in the US, who are suggesting that inventory levels 
among retailers, which continue to fall, have reached levels so low as to be unsustainable. A return to 
more appropriate levels of inventory can only improve this core segment of our business.
While we continue to operate in a financial swamp, our business is fundamentally strong, and 
management is confident in its ability to fight off the alligators and continue to provide all of our 
investors superior value for their commitment to the business.
Eric Oakley
Group Chief Executive
23 September 2009
Group Chief Executive’s 
Review (continued)
