 Chairman’s Statement
8
Chairman’s Statement 
The twelve months to 31 May 2009 have encompassed some of the 
most extraordinary global economic conditions in the Group’s forty-
nine year history. The crisis in the global financial markets towards the 
latter part of 2008 and the ensuing economic downturn have been 
well documented and have led to an extremely challenging business 
environment. Nevertheless, the benefits from our acquisitions last year 
and in particular, the acquisition of the Vivid Group, have helped the 
Haynes Group to increase revenue and maintain profits during this 
difficult period. 
During the first six months of our financial year we experienced a year-
on-year increase in revenue of 14% as the effect of the Vivid acquisition 
and a weaker Sterling against the US Dollar benefited the Group. Also 
during this period we felt the impact of lower replenishment of our core 
products as retailers reduced borrowings in response to the tightening credit markets and consumer 
sentiment moved from a spending to a saving mode. Trading during our third quarter followed a similar 
pattern although stronger trading in both our key geographical markets in the US and UK towards the 
end of the fourth quarter helped mitigate some of the shortfall experienced in the first three quarters. 
Notwithstanding the challenging economic conditions, the Haynes Group continues to strengthen its 
financial position and generate strong cash flows. Last year the Group incurred expenditure of £7.0 
million on two key strategic acquisitions (Vivid Holding BV and Bookworks Pty) and invested £2.0 
million in tangible assets. This year, the US business has invested £1.8 million ($3.0 million) in a new 
binding line for its print facility in Nashville. In total this represents over £10.5 million of non-trading 
expenditure in less than 24 months and led to net borrowings of £1.4 million at the half 
year. Nevertheless, at that time, the Board was confident that the Group would return 
to a positive net cash position during the early part of our next financial year. Therefore, 
it is particularly satisfying to report that the Group is ahead of schedule in this regards, 
ending the financial year with surplus net cash of £1.4 million. 
Results summary
Following the impact of a full year from Vivid which increased Group revenue by £3.2 
million and a weaker Sterling against the US Dollar which increased Group revenue 
by £3.5 million, Group revenue ended the year at £35.3 million, 14% up on the prior 
year (2008: £31.1 million). However, the benefits of the higher revenue have been 
partially offset by the lower manual sales in the US and the UK as retailers 
continue to reduce inventory levels. The net impact of the above factors led 
to Group operating profit ending the year up 9% at £7.6 million  
(2008: £7.0 million). 
With net bank interest payable of £0.1 million, following the financing of last 
year’s acquisitions, higher capital expenditure in the US and Australia and 
a net finance charge of £0.4 million on the Group’s pension scheme assets 
and liabilities, Group pre-tax profits ended the period in line with last year at 
£7.1 million (2008: £7.1 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate for the year, on attributable profits, was 32% 
(2008: 29%), reflecting a change in mix of geographical profits and leading 
to a basic earnings per share of 29.4 pence (2008: 30.8 pence).  
 
Structure 
On 27 February 2009, the Group disposed of its UK printing operation to a local company, JF Print 
Limited, helping to secure the jobs of the 45 employees. The print operation, which made a loss of 
£0.6 million last year, was sold for £0.4 million. Following the disposal, the Group’s remaining printing 
operations have been centralised in the US, where UK & European automotive manuals are  
already printed. 
The above disposal forms part of a series of measures undertaken over the last few years to improve 
the efficiency of the UK and European operations. 9
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
The Board
In January 2009, David Suter and Panton Corbett, two of our non-executive directors, retired after 19 and 16 
years of service respectively. I would very much like to thank both David and Panton for their dedicated and 
loyal service to the Company and on behalf of my fellow directors wish them a very happy retirement. 
Following the above retirements, Eddie Bell has been appointed the Senior Independent Director and also 
takes over the Chairmanship of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, while Andrew Garner takes 
over as Chairman of the Audit Committee. We are indeed fortunate to have such experienced replacements 
and I wish both Eddie and Andrew success in their expanded roles.
Dividends 
Following £7.0 million of cash outflow on acquisitions during 2008 and high capital expenditure 
programmes in both 2007/8 and the first half of 2008/9, the Group moved into a net debt position at the 
half year. At that time, despite the Board’s optimism over the Group’s future trading prospects, it was felt 
there was still a high degree of uncertainty in the market place which could impact on our second half 
trading and accordingly, the Board took a prudent approach, reducing the interim dividend to 4.0 pence 
(2008: 5.0 pence). Six months down the line the Group is able to report it is once again cash positive and 
our capital expenditure for the forthcoming year is anticipated to return to more normal levels. Despite 
recent improvements in stock markets around the world, we have yet to see any sustained improvement 
in trading conditions in our main markets. Nevertheless,  we remain confident in the Group’s ability to 
deliver future profit growth. For this reason, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.5 pence 
per share, which maintains the total dividend for the year in line with last year at 15.5 pence (2008: 15.5 
pence). Subject to final approval by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 29 October 2009 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 October 2009. The shares will be declared ex-
dividend on 30 September 2009.
Staff
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our staff for their tireless efforts and commitment during 
the past 12 months. Unfortunately, current economic indicators point to the coming year being equally as 
challenging. However, the Board takes confidence that it has a dedicated and capable work force which is 
well placed to help grow the business and accept new challenges as they arise.
Future prospects
The addition last year of Vivid Holdings to the Haynes Group brought with it not just a business that was 
successful in its own right, but also the technical expertise to produce electronically delivered products. 
Clearly we see this additional capability not only producing growth in the Vivid business but the application 
of Vivid technology to the Haynes product offering should open up growth opportunities in the core 
Haynes business.
Millions of motorists every year acknowledge that it is still possible to save considerable expense by 
performing maintenance and repair work on their vehicles using a Haynes Manual. There is no doubt that 
levels of DIY activity have once again increased in this very difficult environment, but so far the benefits 
have been offset by reduced car sales and inventory reductions by our customers. We do believe though 
that more motorists will turn to our manuals as they seek to save on the expense of running their cars  
and motorcycles.
 
I remain extremely confident that as a result of actions taken to-date and the continued prudent and 
strong leadership by the Haynes management team, the Group is well positioned to take advantage of the 
upturn when it finally arrives.
 
 
John H Haynes, OBE
Executive Chairman
23 September 2009
