 10
Business Overview
Over 50 years ago, when John Haynes 
wrote his first book on the Austin Seven, 
little could he have foreseen how the 
business would grow into the world’s 
leading automotive publisher, with offices 
in three continents, books translated into 
more than 20 languages and sales in 
excess of 150 million units. The business 
has changed since those early days, 
but the values of hard work, integrity 
and simplicity remain very much at 
the heart of the modern day Haynes 
businesses.
Over the last 10 years, the Group 
has undergone some radical 
restructuring. Loss making UK 
& European operations have 
been sold or closed, internal 
operations restructured or 
outsourced, acquisition debt paid 
down and the focus of the business  
re-aligned. Through strategic acquisitions 
we have extended our geographical 
reach, realised financial synergies and 
acquired expertise in areas we consider 
to be fundamentally important to the 
future development and growth of  
our business. 
 
The adoption of digital technology in our 
Nashville print facility has opened up 
new possibilities in book publishing and 
now allows the Group to extend the life 
of titles which, under traditional printing 
methods, would no longer be viable to 
hold in inventory. 
Over the last few years we have made 
a strategic move to widen our range of 
practical and easy to follow, step-by-
step format DIY titles. If today you want 
to grow your own vegetables, Haynes 
has a manual to show you how. If you 
are looking to get into shape, the Royal 
Marines Fitness Manual, the first title 
in our new publishing association with 
the Royal Marines could fit the bill. 
Alternatively, with more people keeping 
chickens than at any time since the 
Second World War, you may be one of 
the many people who could benefit from 
our Haynes Chicken Manual. Whilst 
the publication of automotive repair 
manuals remains very much the core 
of our global publishing business, the 
diversity of subject matters we now 
cover helps to demonstrate how we are 
also establishing Haynes as a leading 
publisher of more general DIY titles.
Group Chief Executive’s Review
     The underlying business 
is performing well and whilst 
we are aware that we face 
challenges in the coming year, 
we are confident in the quality 
of our people to manage the 
business through this period 
and to take advantage of 
opportunities as they arise.
“
“
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
The structural changes to the business 
outlined above have been a major 
contributing factor in placing the Group 
on a stronger financial platform which, 
over the last twelve months, has enabled 
the Group to deliver another solid trading 
performance in what continue to be very 
challenging conditions.
Operating results overview
The soft trading conditions experienced 
by the Group in its major markets over 
the last 24 months have hampered the 
Group’s ability to drive top-line revenue 
growth. Nevertheless, we did experience 
revenue improvements in some parts of 
the business during the year,
particularly in the UK, Scandinavia and 
Australia. 
In the important US market, revenue in 
local currency was 6% down against the 
prior year as re-ordering patterns from a 
small number of key customers continue 
to fall short of levels we would consider 
to be normal. Outside of this small group, 
the customer base is performing ahead 
of last year. As a Group we gained a 
benefit during the year from a weaker 
Sterling exchange rate against the US 
Dollar, ending the year with an average 
rate of $1.58 (2009: $1.64) giving a 
positive movement of 4% and increasing 
US revenue by £0.6 million. As a result, 
US revenue ended the year down 3% 
when reported in Sterling. In Australia, 
sales performed well, finishing the year 
13% ahead of the prior period. 
In the UK & Europe, the loss of the 
external print revenue meant that 
reportable UK & European revenue 
finished the year down 9%. However, on 
a like-for-like basis, revenue was ahead 
by 6% helped by strong manual sales 
growth in Scandinavia and strong sales in 
the UK’s general publishing and licensing 
divisions. In Holland, Vivid sales finished 
the year 2% ahead of the prior period, 
which in the prevailing economic climate 
was a satisfactory outcome.
Following the disposal of the UK print 
business in February 2009, we gained the 
expected benefit to UK margins during the 
year, with the UK gross margin increasing 
to 49% (2009: 42%). This in turn helped 
improve the overall Group gross margin 
to 64.2% (2009: 62.1%). We continue 
to experience upward pressures on raw 
material costs. However, the move earlier 
this year to centralise our Group printing 
in the US means that we are able to 
benefit from improved economies of scale 
and greater production synergies which 
both go some way to help mitigate the 
increasing cost pressures we are facing. 12
Overhead expenses were down  
£0.4 million, or 3%, helped by lower US 
advertising costs, as performance linked 
promotional expenditure was reduced 
following the revenue shortfall from the 
small group of key customers. Partially 
offsetting the lower US advertising costs 
was the impact of exchange rates, which 
increased US overheads in comparison 
to last year by £0.3 million, the first year 
of amortisation on the new UK computer 
system implemented in June 2009 adding 
£0.1 million of additional expense and 
one-off headcount restructuring costs 
in the UK business of £0.1 million. With 
other operating income increasing by 
£0.2 million, Group operating profit ended 
the year up 1% at £7.7 million  
(2009: £7.6 million).
Net finance costs were in line with last 
year at £0.5 million leaving pre-tax profits 
also ahead of last year by 1% at £7.2 
million (2009: £7.1 million).
Segmental overview
North America and Australia 
The performance of the North American 
business continues to be adversely 
impacted by sales from a small number 
of key customers where long standing 
inventory reduction programmes have and 
continue to affect re-ordering patterns. As a 
result, revenue in local currency was down 
6% against the prior year at $29.1 million 
(£18.4 million) with the shortfall being 
largely attributable to these customers. 
With the remaining US customer base 
performing ahead of last year, the 
underlying performance of the business 
is somewhat masked by the above factor. 
Notwithstanding the reduction in US 
revenue during the year, this part of the 
business remains the major revenue and 
profit generator for the Group. 
During the second half of the year, the 
Group centralised the manufacturing of 
all its printed material to the US’s print 
facility in Nashville, Tennessee. This now 
allows the Group to take advantage from 
production synergies which will benefit 
both the US and European operations 
going forward. 
In Australia, the new management team 
is making good progress with sales in 
the second six months 19% ahead of 
the prior year and ending the twelve 
month period 13% ahead of last year. 
With the expanded industry knowledge 
of the new management team, coupled 
with the financial synergies from printing 
the general publishing titles in the US, 
there is an opportunity to improve the 
performance of the Group’s general 
publishing title sales in this market place.
During the year, the Group reviewed the 
allocation of overheads to and from the 
operating segments and as a result of 
this review, costs of $0.4 million which 
had previously been treated as central 
costs have been retained in the North 
American and Australian business. This 
helps to explain 
the reduction 
in segmental 
operating profits 
of the North 
American and 
Australian 
business for 
the year which 
were down 
11% at $6.4 
million (2009: 
$7.2 million). 
However, with 
a stronger 
US Dollar 
against Sterling during the 
year, segmental operating profit when 
translated to Sterling was down 9% at 
£4.0 million (2009: £4.4 million). 
Group Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13
United Kingdom and Europe 
Overall revenue in the UK & Europe 
ended the year 9% down on the prior 
period. However, on a like-for-like basis, 
excluding revenue from the UK print 
business sold last year, revenue was 
ahead of the prior year by 6% helped 
by year-on-year increases in sales of 
both the UK automotive and general 
publishing titles.
In Vivid, despite the difficult market 
conditions, revenue in local currency 
ended the year 2% ahead of the prior 
period. The Vivid business continued to 
invest in its own core digital applications 
during the year as well as supporting 
the Group in 
developing 
new digital 
platforms for the 
other Haynes 
businesses. 
Through the 
activities of the 
UK Licensing 
division, the 
exposure of the 
Haynes brand 
continues to 
develop with 
recent licensing 
tie-ups including 
Hornby’s well-
known Airfix and 
Corgi brands and 
a compilation 
Fathers Day CD 
album with Sony. 
During the year, 
UK & European 
operating costs 
were affected by the first year of 
amortisation on the new UK computer 
system of £0.1 million and one-off 
headcount restructuring costs of a similar 
amount. As a result, UK & European 
segmental profits ended the year in line 
with last year at £2.2 million (2009:  
£2.2 million). 
Taxation
The charge to taxation on continuing 
operations for the year was £2.5 million 
(2009: £2.3 million) giving an effective 
tax rate of 34.7% (2009: 32.1%). 
In 2008/9, as part of a US fiscal 
stimulation package, the North American 
business benefited from accelerated first 
year capital allowances on the purchase 
of a new binding line which led to a lower 
overall Group tax charge. However, with 
capital expenditure during the current 
year back to more usual levels, the 
Group’s tax charge in 2009/10 reflects 
our more normal geographical mix  
of profits.
Working capital and cash flows
The conversion of profit into cash is a key 
ratio for the business and during the year 
the net cash generated from operations 
before tax was £10.2 million (2009: £9.3 
million) and represented 133% of Group 
operating profit (2009: 123%).  
The Group’s strong cash generation is a 
key strength of the business and despite 
the difficult trading 
conditions we 
have been able to 
improve our net 
cash position. 14
Group Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
We started the year with net cash of £1.4 
million and following expenditure on US 
production equipment of £0.8 million 
to accommodate the printing of the UK 
general publishing titles and expenditure 
on new customer display racking of £0.2 
million, we ended the year with net cash 
of £3.8 million, clearing down the UK 
overdraft of £1.7 million in the process.
We continue to monitor closely our 
inventory levels and excluding the 
impact of exchange on the North 
American and Australian figures, which 
increased the year-end balances by £0.8 
million, inventory levels ended the year 
1% or £0.1 million down on the prior 
year. During the year the US business 
purchased a new digital press which now 
allows the Group to print shorter runs and 
is an important tool for management in 
controlling quantities of finished  
goods inventory.
 
Pensions
The Group has a number of different 
retirement programmes in the countries 
within which it operates. The principal 
pension programmes are a contributory 
defined benefit scheme in the UK,  
a non-contributory defined benefit plan in 
the US and defined contribution scheme 
in The Netherlands.
As at 31 May 2010, 
the aggregate 
deficit on the two 
retirement benefit 
schemes, as reported 
under International 
Accounting Standard 
19, was £14.0 million 
(2009: £10.4 million) 
with an increased deficit 
in the UK Scheme 
of £4.7 million being 
partially offset by a reduction in the US 
Scheme deficit of £1.1 million. Whilst 
equity values have come under pressure 
in the UK in recent months reducing 
asset values, it is the reduction in the 
UK discount rate from 6.6% last year to 
5.45% this year, increasing the Scheme’s 
liabilities, which has been the major factor 
in increasing the UK Scheme deficit. 
The Group funds its pension contributions 
based on actuarial valuations which 
are undertaken annually in the US and 
triennially in the UK, with the latest UK 
triennial valuation being for the Scheme 
year ended 30 June 2008. On 8 July 2010, 
the Pensions Minister informed Parliament 
that the index to be used to calculate the 
minimum increases in pensions would 
switch from the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) 
to the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”). 
This was followed on 12 July 2010 by an 
announcement from the Department for 
Work and Pensions which indicated that 
this change could be retrospective, but 
draft legislation is currently awaited. In 
common with other companies who hold 
defined benefit pension schemes we are 
in the process of establishing what impact 
this change will have on the Haynes UK 
scheme. However, on current information 
available it seems more likely that this 
change will lower the reported deficit but 
this is dependent on the rates of CPI and 
RPI from time to time and the wording of 
legislation. We hope to be in a position to 
update on the impact of this change when 
we next report our results at the half year.
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15
Eric Oakley  
Group Chief Executive                 
14 September 2010
Group outlook
Over the years the Haynes Group has 
demonstrated it has a sustainable business 
model which has been reinforced once 
again during the difficult trading conditions 
experienced over the last twenty four 
months. The business is currently free of 
debt, with strong cash generation and a 
proven record in identifying, securing and 
managing acquisitions. The underlying 
business is performing well and whilst we 
are aware that we face challenges in the 
coming year, we are confident in the quality 
of our people to manage the business 
through this period and to take advantage 
of opportunities as they arise. 
Over the coming months we will 
be looking to utilise the Group’s 
geographical reach to maximise sales 
of our general publishing titles. We will 
also try to establish new distribution 
channels for the Group’s core products 
and through innovative and commercial 
product development programmes seek 
to identify new product opportunities 
whether in printed or digital format.
 
Finally we will actively pursue acquisitive 
growth opportunities, where such 
opportunities will provide long term and 
sustainable benefits for the Group.
