 8
Business overview
This year once again, despite the very 
challenging economic background and 
the extreme weather conditions which 
gripped our core markets during the 
third quarter, we have delivered a small 
increase in Group-pre-tax profit and 
increased Group cash by 40% over the 
prior year. 
As part of our 50th Anniversary 
celebrations, the US business embarked 
on a very unique and exciting venture 
we called “Project 50”. This involved 
the restoration of a 1965 Ford Mustang 
convertible with a 289 V8 engine and 
C4 automatic transmission from “barn 
find” condition to “show car ready” in 
time for the AAPEX/SEMA show in Las 
Vegas in November 2011. The progress 
of the restoration project can be viewed 
through the live webcam on the US 
website, www.haynes.com or through 
the video logs on You Tube. The process 
of stripping down and rebuilding the 
Mustang and documenting the step 
by step approach taken encapsulates 
perfectly the strengths of our business 
model and is what makes Haynes titles 
so popular throughout the globe.
In June of this year, we announced the 
development of a prototype electronic 
version of the iconic Haynes manual. 
‘Haynes Manual Online’ (MOL) will 
include all the information in one of our 
printed manuals but through the benefits 
of an electronic platform also includes 
audio and video clips, colour pictures 
and diagrams, hyperlinks, definitions and 
word search capability. The development 
of Haynes MOL illustrates the benefits 
Group chief Executive’s review
“
“
“
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.c .  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
     We enter the new financial year 
in a strong financial position. We 
have cash in the bank, we are 
free of gearing and the Group has 
realistic business plans for the 
coming year.
“ 9
that are now starting to flow to the 
Haynes Group following the acquisition 
of Vivid Holding BV three years ago 
and in particular, how the IT and web 
based skills that Vivid bring to the Group 
compliment the technical automotive and 
product design skills we already possess 
within the Haynes Group. 
We have also been working closely with 
our key retail customers to identify new 
marketing initiatives for our products. 
An example of this has been in the 
US, where we have been working with 
our largest customers to trial new face 
out displays in their stores and also in 
Australia where the return to face out 
displays are being very well received 
by our largest customers. The results 
to-date have been encouraging and the 
trials in the US are being extended. In 
the UK we have experienced a stronger 
demand from our retail customers with 
an on-line presence.  
operating results overview
Group revenue during the year has 
been impacted by the re-negotiation of 
terms with a major US customer, which 
reduced reportable revenue by  
£1.02 million to £32.74 million but 
was offset by a matching reduction 
in advertising expense. Excluding the 
impact of this change, like-for-like 
revenue ended the year 1% ahead of last 
year at £33.76 million (2010:  
£33.31 million). In the US, reportable 
revenue, in local currency, ended the  
year in line with the prior period.
During the year our gross margin was 
adversely affected by two main factors. 
Firstly, and most significantly, the 
reduction in US revenue following the 
change in terms with the major customer 
which reduced our gross margin by  
£1.02 million or 3.2 percentage points but 
did not impact pre-tax profits. Secondly, 
in 2009 the Group changed the way it 
accounted for Vivid’s external product 
development costs to write down such 
costs on a straight line basis over five 
years and bring in line with International 
Reporting Standards and Haynes Group 
policy. The impact of this change has 
been to increase the annual intangible 
amortisation charge by approximately 
£0.40 million year-on-year until 2013. 
In 2010/11 this has reduced our gross 
margin by £0.40 million or 1.3 percentage 
points although it is important to note 
that whilst this impacts on our reportable 
profits it does not affect Group cash 
flows. The impact of these two factors 
has led to a reduction in our gross margin 
of 0.7 percentage points to 63.5% (2010: 
64.2%). 
Group chief Executive’s review 10
Group overheads ended the year 5% 
down on last year at £13.33 million (2010: 
£14.04 million). With net finance costs, 
which almost entirely relate to pension 
assets and liabilities, of £0.51 million 
(2010: £0.52 million) pre-tax profits ended 
the year marginally ahead of last year at 
£7.18 million (2010: £7.17 million).
Segmental overview
North America and Australia
Like-for-like revenue in our North 
American and Australian operation in 
local currency ended the year up 5% at 
$30.65 million (2010: $29.12 million). The 
like-for-like revenue reflecting the change 
in terms with the US customer, which 
reduced revenue by $1.62 million but was 
matched by a corresponding reduction in 
advertising expense.
In the US, sales through the first half 
of the year tracked in line with the 
prior period but blizzard conditions in 
late December 2010 caused severe 
disruptions to large parts of the Midwest 
and East coast and were followed 
in February 2011 by similar blizzard 
conditions in the Southern Plains and 
upper Midwest of the Country, with 
both events adversely affecting the 
ordering patterns of our key customers. 
Nevertheless we ended the year with 
like-for-like reportable revenue ahead of 
last year. 
After taking into account the lower 
advertising expense following the change 
in terms with the major US customer, the 
net impact of the above left segmental 
operating profit in local currency 10% 
ahead of last year at $7.02 million (2010: 
$6.38 million). After translation to Sterling, 
applying an average Sterling to US Dollar 
exchange rate during the year of $1.59 
(2010: $1.58), segmental operating profit 
was also up 10% at £4.43 million (2010: 
£4.03 million).
united Kingdom and Europe
In the UK, despite a slow start to 
the year, overall sales of our Haynes 
titles ended the twelve month period 
in line with last year. We started our 
financial year with what we believed to be 
a strong general publishing programme 
and this has been borne out as revenues 
from our top 10 selling titles were up 20% 
on last year, with our ‘USS Enterprise 
manual’ and ‘Wallace & Gromit Cracking 
Contraptions manual’ being our top two 
selling titles during the year.
In the rest of Europe, revenue from Vivid 
in local currency ended the year 1% 
ahead of last year. Vivid operate in a 
competitive market place and we have 
been encouraged by new contract gains 
in Spain, Sweden, Italy and in Germany. 
Overall UK and European revenue ended 
the year 3% down on last year at  
£14.43 million (2010: £14.93 million).
Following the additional expenditure 
we incurred on our 50th anniversary 
promotional activity in 2010, we have 
seen advertising costs return to more 
Group chief Executive’s review  
(continued)
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.c .  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
financial year with what we believed to be 
Following the additional expenditure  11
normal levels during the current 
year. Also during the year, the 
Group reviewed the allocation 
of overheads to the UK and 
European segments. As a 
result of this review,  
£0.51 million of overheads 
which had previously been 
allocated to the segment 
have this year been retained 
as a central overhead. Partially 
offsetting the above was the higher 
development cost amortisation in Vivid 
which increased segmental costs by 
£0.40 million. 
As a result of the above and despite the 
lower revenue, UK & European segmental 
operating profits rose by 10% to  
£2.40 million (2010: £2.19 million).
Taxation
The Haynes Group has trading 
subsidiaries in eight different countries 
and an effective rate for taxation which 
reflects the national rates applied to 
the profits generated locally in these 
territories. During the year under review 
the Group’s charge to taxation on 
continuing operations was £2.43 million 
(2010: £2.49 million) with an effective rate 
of 33.8% (2010: 34.7%).
Working capital and cash flows
The monitoring and control of the 
Group’s working capital balances 
remains a key priority for management. 
Inventory volumes have been reduced 
over the last few years in response to 
the economic downturn but in recent 
month’s management have been slowly 
increasing finished goods volumes and 
raw material levels, particularly in the US 
ahead of announced price increases.   
Nevertheless, it is relevant to note 
that finished goods volumes and raw 
materials stocks are still 16% lower and 
42% lower respectively, than four  
years ago. 
The net impact of the movements in 
inventory and trade receivables has 
meant that the Group cash inflow 
generated from continuing operations 
before  
tax was 
£8.38 million 
(2010:  
£10.23 million) 
which represented 
109% of Group 
operating profit 
(2010: 133%). With a lower requirement 
to replenish tangible fixed assets 
during the year leading to a reduction 
in capital expenditure of £0.58 million 
and our investment in intangible product 
development remaining in line with the 
previous year at £2.13 million (2010: 
£2.14 million) Group cash ended the year 
up 40% at £5.38 million (2010:  
£3.84 million).
Pensions
The Group has a number of different 
retirement programmes in the various 
countries in which it operates. The 
principal pension programmes are a 
contributory defined benefit scheme 
in the UK, a non-contributory defined 
benefit plan in the US and a defined 
contribution scheme in the Netherlands.
In recent years the Group has increased 
its contribution to the UK Scheme by 
1.1% with a further £0.4 million per 
year in contributions to help reduce the 
past service deficit. On 1 June 2010, 
the Group increased its contribution 
by a further 1% and in April 2011, the 
Company commenced a consultation 
exercise with its UK employees to 
restructure certain of the UK scheme 
as a central overhead. Partially 
offsetting the above was the higher 
normal levels during the current 
before  
tax was 
£8.38 million £8.38 million 
£10.23 million) 
which represented 
109% of Group 
operating profit 
£8.38 million  12
Group c hief Executive’s r eview  
(continued)
benefits and to increase the UK member 
contribution rate by 3%, the aim of 
which was to place the UK Scheme on 
a more affordable footing going forward. 
Whilst the consultation process was 
not completed until after the end of the 
financial year and therefore, does not 
impact the 2010/11 figures I am pleased 
to report that with the support of the 
active members the changes have been 
implemented in line with the Company’s 
proposals and will be reflected in the next 
triennial valuation for the period ended  
30 June 2011.
As at 31 May 2011 the aggregate deficit 
on the two defined benefit schemes as 
reported in accordance with IAS 19 was 
£10.43 million (2010: £14.02 million). 
The reduction in the aggregate deficit 
is due to a combination of factors but 
most noticeably, a higher return on the 
schemes assets both in the UK and the 
US, a move to the latest mortality tables 
in the UK and the move to calculate UK 
Statutory Revaluation Orders using CPI 
rather than RPI.
Group outlook
We enter the new financial year in a 
strong financial position. We have cash 
in the bank, we are free of gearing and 
the Group has realistic business plans for 
the coming year. However, the continuing 
turmoil in the global economy 
could have implications which 
affect these plans.
Following the recent development 
of a Haynes MOL prototype, we 
are currently in the process of 
demonstrating the prototype to 
our retail customers in the US with 
a plan to convert the top 50 selling 
US manuals to an electronic 
format in the current financial year. 
We also follow with interest the 
progression of e-books which 
is of greater relevance to our 
general interest titles. Although 
to-date it has been largely black 
& white fiction titles that have 
dominated the e-books market, 
the technology and the platforms 
for this to widen to colour 
illustrated titles is not too far away. We 
also strongly believe that for the DIY 
market in particular, a digital product will 
complement and work alongside, rather 
than replace, the printed product.
In Europe, Vivid is looking to build on its 
extensive database of European vehicles 
and its strong language skills to expand 
its business model into new geographical 
markets. The first phase of this new 
development programme covering the 
Brazilian market will commence in the 
coming year as will initial studies of the 
US market opportunities.
It is important for the Group to augment 
internal growth with complementary 
acquisitions as such opportunities 
present themselves. This is a strategy 
that has served the Group well in recent 
years and we will continue to evaluate 
relevant acquisition opportunities.
Eric o akley  
Group Chief Executive                 
14 September 2011
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.c .  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
