 6
It was around this time five years ago that the Haynes 
Group first experienced the effects of the economic 
downturn. At that time, few of us envisaged that 
five years later we would still be facing the financial 
instability in Europe and the global economic 
headwinds that we are experiencing at the present 
time. During this timeframe, the Haynes Group has 
weathered the storm pretty well, maintaining pre-tax 
profits and growing our cash reserves. However, in 
the early part of 2011/12 we encountered some very 
weak trading in North America, globally our single 
largest market, which adversely impacted our results 
at the half year. Although we 
experienced a slight pick-up 
in trading in this territory in 
the second half of the year, 
our domestic UK markets 
encountered a similar 
softening of conditions during 
the second six months and 
a combination of these two 
factors has led to an overall 
reduction in revenue and 
profits against the prior year.
Despite the recent softer trading, 
the mood in the Group remains 
unwaveringly optimistic. Early 
into the economic downturn, 
the Board took decisive action 
to ensure that the Group’s 
financial position and operational 
structure was appropriate given 
the expectation of challenging 
times ahead. In this respect, I believe we 
have achieved our aims. Around the same time, we 
identified the need for the Group to develop new 
multi-media platforms to give our end consumers 
a choice over how they receive the delivery of our 
content. I am pleased to report that this process is 
well underway and in the US, shortly before the half 
year, we launched our first iconic Haynes manuals 
in an electronic format. This was followed in June 
of this year by our first UK automotive titles and 
more recently, by the Group’s top selling motorcycle 
titles. It is particularly pleasing to report that both 
the platform for the delivery of the new electronic 
manuals and the conversion routines from printed to 
electronic files have been developed entirely within 
the Haynes Group. The ability for the Haynes Group 
to develop our own digital platforms and disseminate 
our content in different forms is a 
major component of our forward 
strategy and the launch of the 
electronic manuals is testament 
to the efforts of both our IT 
development and automotive 
editorial teams over the last 
eighteen months. 
Results summary
Following the softer trading of 
our printed manuals in our two 
main trading markets, Group 
revenue ended the year 9% 
down on the prior year at £29.8 
million (2011: £32.7 million). The 
reduction in revenue, coupled with a higher 
development cost amortisation expense of 
 £0.4 million against the prior period, left Group  
pre-tax profits lower by 35% at £4.7 million  
(2011: £7.2 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate was 31.6% (2011: 
30.3% as restated
1
) leaving basic earnings per share 
at 20.0 pence (2011: 30.5 pence as restated
1
).
1
 See Note 1 Restatement of prior years
Dividend and shares
During the year, following the decision by a 
significant overseas fund (and long time Haynes 
shareholder) to reduce its exposure in the UK market, 
an opportunity arose for the Company to acquire 
1.24 million of its ordinary shares and to place the 
shares in treasury. The directors have for some time 
been keen to improve the liquidity in the Company’s 
Group Chairman’s Statement
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
     It is particularly pleasing to report 
that both the platform for the delivery 
of the new electronic manuals and the 
conversion routines from printed to 
electronic files have been developed 
entirely within the Haynes Group.
“
“
FIAT
500 & PANDA
2004 to 2012 (53 to 61 reg) Petrol & Diesel
Owners Workshop Manual
step-by-step maintenance and repair
The best selling car manuals in the world

58
e we 
a higher
Th Th Th h he he e e be e be e be be be be b el l st sel sel st sel st sel st sel st se s ling c igc ling c ling c ling c ling c ling c l r man ar man ar man ar man ar man ar ma ar m uals i uals i uals i uals i ual n the n the n th world 7
shares in the longer term 
and therefore, took the 
opportunity to purchase the 
available shares. In doing so 
the Company has the option to 
widen its shareholder base in the 
future without having to incur the 
underwriting costs and share 
discounting associated with a 
rights issue or placing. Due to 
the timing of the purchase, the 
Company was able to save the 
interim dividend that would have been due on the 
1.24 million shares and with the historically low 
interest rates this provided the Company with a 
higher return than it could have achieved on the 
money held in the bank and is therefore, earnings 
enhancing to the benefit of all our shareholders.
While in the near term the case remains that we sail 
through turbulent seas, the Board remains confident 
in the longer term prospects of the Group. The Board 
is encouraged by the Group’s in-house ability to 
develop and distribute new digital products from our 
own platforms as well as our strong cash position 
and cash generation which will be an important 
factor in the further development and expansion 
of these digital platforms. As a result the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 9.5 pence per 
share (2011: 9.5 pence) which, together with the 
interim dividend paid in April, the total dividend 
for the year is 15.7 pence per share (2011: 15.7 
pence). Subject to the approval by shareholders, 
the final dividend will be paid on 31 October 2012 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 12 October 2012. The shares will be declared ex-
dividend on 10 October 2012.
Board, people and corporate governance
Successful businesses are built through hard work, 
strong leadership and integrity. These are attributes 
we recognise throughout our organisation and are 
important factors when employing new staff and 
developing new relationships with partners. In 
common with other UK listed businesses, we are 
governed by the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2010 (the Code) and included within our Annual 
Report 2012 will be details of how 
the Board manages its corporate 
governance under the Code. We 
are a small but diverse Board with 
a wide mix of experience and with 
just under half of the Board resident 
outside the UK, we possess a strong 
understanding of the global markets 
in which our businesses operate. 
Whilst we acknowledge that the 
present Board composition does 
not fully comply with all aspects of 
the Code, we are satisfied that, at 
this point in time, we have 
the correct mix of skills 
and experience around the 
Boardroom table to steer 
the Group through these 
challenging times and to 
implement our plans for 
revenue and earnings growth.  
Although based in the UK, over the past twelve 
months I have spent a lot of time in California, 
working from our offices in Los Angeles which has 
allowed me to spend time with some of our US 
employees. I was also able to join the executive 
team earlier this year on their visit to Romania and 
meet the employees in our Bucharest office. Having 
the chance to meet our employees in different parts 
of the Group has been a very rewarding experience 
and reinforces my belief that we are very fortunate 
to have such a dedicated and loyal employee base 
and on behalf of my fellow directors I would like to 
thank our employees, in all of our locations, for their 
significant contribution to the success of the Group 
over the last year.
Future prospects
As a Board, we recognise that we face some steep 
challenges in all of our markets. The financial 
uncertainty in the Eurozone continues to undermine 
business and consumer confidence on a worldwide 
basis. Sterling’s recent weakening against the US 
Dollar and strengthening against the Euro has had 
both a positive and negative impact on the Group 
and continued volatility in the foreign exchange 
markets will undoubtedly present further challenges 
to a multinational business such as Haynes. We 
are also impacted by the pace of technological 
advancement in hand-held communication devices 
which offers both opportunities and challenges to 
data and content providers. However, we face these 
challenges with enthusiasm given that the Group 
has a strong brand presence, ownership of its core 
manual content and also the technical expertise to 
deliver that content in a digital format online. We 
have a solid corporate structure from which we can 
grow, we have a clear vision of where we are heading 
and we have a Board with the 
experience and resolve to 
make it happen. 
J Haynes  
Group Chairman                 
12 September 2012
e 
e
wth. 
