 8
Business overview
This has been a mixed twelve months for the Haynes 
Group. Early into our financial year, we experienced 
an unexpected drop off in orders from our larger retail 
customers in our North American markets, which left 
sales in the month of July 2011, 44% down against 
the prior year. In the current economic climate this was 
a significant setback and whilst the US business has 
been able to recover some of this shortfall, without 
doubt the poor trading in the first six months has 
adversely impacted our results for the full year.  In the 
UK and Europe, sales of Haynes manuals which held 
up well during the first half of the year, encountered 
similar softer trading with key retailers in the third and 
fourth quarters, ending the six month period 16% 
behind last year however, this was partially offset by 
growth in our book trade publishing and professional 
divisions. Despite this, we should not lose sight of how, 
over the last five years, the Haynes Group has shown 
a strong resilience to the global recessionary pressures 
and even with the lower revenue and profits this year, 
we remain a profitable, cash generative group with a 
strong balance sheet and no gearing.
Notwithstanding the softer trading, there have been a 
number of positives we can take from the last twelve 
months. The development of our multi-media digital 
platforms has moved forward at a pace. Shortly before 
the half year, we launched the Group’s first electronic 
on-line manuals into the US market and this was 
followed in June 2012 by the first UK manuals and 
more recently by our top selling motorcycle titles. 
The new multi-media platforms, which have been 
developed entirely in-house, now allow us to offer our 
iconic Haynes manuals in both a printed and electronic 
format and also to target new geographical markets 
where previously it would not have been commercially 
viable to enter 
the market with a 
printed product. We 
are also now able to 
disseminate our core 
data in different ways, 
creating opportunities 
to increase the reach 
of our products in our 
existing markets. The 
development of the 
new digital platform 
for our manuals and 
the conversion from 
printed to electronic 
files has been a great 
collaborative effort 
between the digital 
and website expertise of our Dutch and Romanian 
colleagues and the extensive automotive publishing 
skills of our US and UK editorial technicians. With 
this in mind, in April of this year, I took the executive 
management team to Romania so that they could 
meet firsthand the young, enthusiastic and dynamic 
team in Bucharest that is helping the Haynes Group 
drive forward our digital expansion. 
However, it is not only on the digital side of our 
business where we have gained ground during the 
year. In Australia, through the implementation of new 
marketing initiatives and good old fashioned ‘hitting 
the road’ to meet 
and talk with our 
customers at store 
level, we have been 
able to improve 
the performance 
of our sales in the 
Australian market 
and help make this 
part of our operation 
an important 
revenue and profit 
contributor of the 
North American and 
Australian business. 
We can also take 
positives from our 
trading in Europe, 
where revenue 
from the supply of 
technical data to 
the professional 
market performed 
well in what 
continues to be very 
challenging markets 
for the automotive 
aftermarket, ending 
the twelve month 
period, in local 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
“
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
     We do not underestimate the 
challenges which lie ahead over the 
next twelve months. Nevertheless, we 
start the new financial year with a strong 
financial base and a number of new 
initiatives in the pipeline.
“ 9
currency, 8% ahead of last year. Whilst closer to home, 
revenue from our non-automotive titles had another 
encouraging year on the back of a strong publishing 
programme, finishing the year ahead by 6%. 
Operating results overview
Following the lower sales of automotive manuals on 
both sides of the Atlantic, Group revenue ended the 
year at £29.8 million (2011: £32.7 million), down 9%. 
The lower mix of higher margin automotive revenue 
coupled with a higher development cost amortisation 
charge of £0.4 million is reflected in a lower gross 
margin during the year of 59.9% (2011: 63.5%). 
In recent months we have experienced upward 
pressure on our raw material prices, most notably 
paper, which have been absorbed into our cost of 
goods, as in the current economic climate, we have 
taken the decision not to pass these increases on to 
our customers. However, if this trend continues into 
the new financial year we will have little option but to 
revisit this position.
Some five years ago, as soon as we identified we 
were entering a period of economic decline, we 
introduced a plan of cash conservation and cost 
control measures to help keep the Haynes Group 
on a sound financial footing without causing undue 
stress or instability to our underlying businesses. An 
important part of this programme was, and continues 
to be, maintaining a tight control over the Group’s 
operating costs and I am able to report continued 
success in this area with operating costs ending the 
period 4% down on the prior year. This is the third 
year-on-year reduction in operating overheads which 
are currently £1.7 million or 11% lower than they 
were in 2008/09. 
Net finance costs which almost entirely relate to the 
movement on the Group’s pension scheme assets 
and liabilities ended the year 20% lower at £0.4 
million (2011: £0.5 million) leaving pre-tax profits of 
£4.7 million (2011: £7.2 million).
Segmental overview
North America and Australia
During the first half of calendar year 2011 there 
is strong evidence that business and consumer 
confidence in the US was negatively affected by the 
uncertainty surrounding the ‘debt ceiling’ discussions 
in Washington D.C. Following the resolution of these 
discussions at the end of July 2011, confidence 
appeared to return and for a short while consumer 
spending increased. Towards the end of 2011 
however, the higher consumer spending was largely 
being absorbed by increased prices and in early 
2012 was being more than offset by US corporations 
reducing investment in their inventory programmes. 
Our trading in the US 
market over the last 
twelve months closely 
reflects this economic 
cycle. Sales in the 
first quarter of our 
financial year were 
very weak, with the 
magnitude of the 
lower ordering from 
key retailers and 
the speed of the 
deceleration coming 
quite unexpectedly, 
leading to a 
reduction in local 
currency sales in the first half of the year of 16% 
against the prior period. Although trading during the 
second half of the year improved slightly, ending 
the period 17% higher than the first six months, 
revenue in this period was nevertheless still 12% 
down against the same period last year. The widely 
reported reduction in inventory investment by larger 
US corporations has undoubtedly had an impact 
on our sales this year, with over 90% of our volume 
shortfall coming from a small number of our larger 
retailer customers. 
As we entered the 2011/12 financial year, sales in 
Australia had been holding up well on the back of 
an economy which appeared to be less affected 
by events on the other side of the globe and 
boosted by the growth in Asia. Nevertheless, there 
are clear signs that the impact of the wider global 
recession and the financial instability in Europe 
are now starting to reach Australia. The states 
of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland 
which between them represent over 80% of 
Australia’s GDP have all experienced weaker 
retail sales in recent months and this is clearly a 
concern for the management of our Australian 
operation.  In a similar manner to the US, trading 
in this territory over the course of the year has 
reflected the economic cycle, with sales during 
the first half of the year ahead by 5% but slower 
sales in the second six months leaving overall 
revenue in this territory 1% ahead of last year. 
t
t 10
During the year, we were awarded ‘Trade partner 
of the year’ by one of our key Australian retailers 
in our mid-size company category, reflecting the 
efforts of our sales team to identify and implement 
new sales and marketing initiatives and where, in 
this instance, the installation and merchandising 
of new racking has resulted in the customer 
increasing ‘through the register sales’ of our 
manuals by approximately 25%.
Since the launch of our new electronic manuals 
in November 2011, we have experienced a small 
but steady sales take up, which has been very 
encouraging as we build the number of electronic 
titles we have on offer before we engage our 
marketing departments to actively promote the 
site. Whilst at this stage, the revenue from this new 
sales channel is not material in a Group context, it 
is nevertheless encouraging that in the six months 
since the launch, the income generated has already 
recovered the cost of developing the new digital 
platform. 
Overall revenue from the North American and 
Australian business ended the year in local currency 
15% down on the prior year at $24.6 million (2011: 
$29.0 million) which after translation to Sterling was 
down 15% at £15.5 million (2011: £18.3 million). As 
a result of the lower revenue, segmental operating 
profit in local currency ended the year at $4.2 million 
(2011: $7.0 million) which after translation to Sterling 
was £2.6 million (2011: £4.4 million).
United Kingdom and Europe
In the UK and Europe, trading has been mixed. Sales 
of automotive manuals ended the first six months 
3% down on last year but after Christmas, as the 
UK entered into a second phase of recession and 
business and consumer confidence appeared to fall 
away sharply, sales in the second half of the year 
were down 16% and for the year as a whole, down 
9%. Sales of our non-automotive titles had a strong 
start to the year, ending the first six months up 
10%, reflecting both the strength of the publishing 
programme and the increased output of titles. During 
the second half of the year, this part of the business 
also experienced a softening in demand but still 
ended the year 6% ahead of last year. During the 
course of the year, we had success with two titles 
in particular. Firstly, the ‘Millennium Falcon Manual’, 
where we give the Haynes treatment to the iconic 
spaceship from the original Star Wars trilogy, a 
title published in conjunction with Lucas Film and 
secondly, ‘Red Bull Racing F1 Car’, which provides 
an unprecedented insight into the design, technology 
and engineering of the Championship winning Red 
Bull RB6 racing car as well as the inner workings of 
Red Bull Racing. The diversity of these two titles is a 
good example of how we are successfully applying 
the Haynes approach to new and quite varied 
subject areas.
In Europe, revenue from the sale of technical data 
to the professional market through the Vivid Group 
performed strongly in what have been very difficult 
market conditions. The turmoil in the Eurozone 
markets and indeed in wider Europe shows little 
signs of respite and it is far from clear whether 
we are still heading into a deeper financial crisis 
or are very slowly moving out of one. Yet despite 
this economic backdrop, Vivid has continued its 
strong performance from the first half of the year 
with revenue in local currency, ending the full twelve 
month period, 8% ahead of last year. This strong 
performance has been built on the back of new 
customer gains in Northern Europe which have  
more than offset the softer trading in parts of 
Southern Europe and most notably in Eastern 
Europe, where trading has been noticeably weaker 
than in previous years.
Group Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11
Overall UK and European revenue ended the twelve 
month period in line with last year at £14.4 million 
(2011: £14.4 million). Following the lower sales of 
higher margin UK automotive manuals and the higher 
Vivid development cost amortisation which increased 
segmental costs by £0.4 million over last year, UK 
and European segmental operating profits ended the 
period 25% lower at £1.8 million (2011: £2.4 million).
Taxation
The Group’s reportable charge to taxation on 
continuing operations was £1.5 million (2011: £2.2 
million as restated
1
) with an effective rate of 31.6% 
(2011: 30.3% as restated
1
). The total charge for the 
year and the resultant effective rate reflects that the 
Haynes Group has trading subsidiaries in a number of 
different countries around the World, each with their 
own national rates of corporate tax which are applied 
to the profits generated locally in these tax territories.
1
 See Note 1 Restatement of prior years
Working capital and cash flows
When we first entered into this recessionary cycle, 
some five years ago, we targeted working capital and 
treasury management as key areas for management’s 
focus and these two areas remain high on our 
agenda. Trading terms with our major customers 
and suppliers are an important component of our 
working capital strategy but are to a large degree 
dependent upon prevailing market practice and the 
desire to build sustainable relationships. Therefore, 
inventory management and capital expenditure are 
the principal levers we have to control our working 
capital. During the year we have reduced inventory 
volumes by a further 8% and our current inventory 
volumes are 23% lower than in 2007, reflecting 
management’s aim at the start of the economic 
downturn, of controlling working capital in a 
measured manner. The movement during the year is 
somewhat masked by the affect of the stronger US 
Dollar which closed our financial year against Sterling 
at $1.54 (May 2011: $1.65) increasing the value of our 
total inventory by £0.4 million against the prior year. 
The tighter inventory control and shorter print runs 
have come at the expense of a higher cost of goods 
but this has been an acceptable and inevitable 
consequence given the fragile financial markets in 
which we are operating. Our capital expenditure 
programmes are equally tightly controlled, but we are 
cognisant of the need to continue our investment in 
the important areas of the business. During the year 
we invested £0.2 million to replace our 22 year old 
case maker on the US production line in Nashville, 
Tennessee and shortly after the year-end purchased 
new freehold offices in Bucharest which will allow us 
to accommodate our growing team in Romania.
Group cash inflow generated from continuing 
operations before tax during the period was £8.7 
million (2011: £8.4 million) which represented 
170% of Group operating profit (2011: 109%). As 
mentioned in previous reports, in 2009 the Group 
changed the way it accounted for Vivid’s product 
development to capitalise both internal and external 
development costs and to write down such costs 
on a straight line basis over five years, thus bringing 
the treatment in line with International Accounting 
Standards and Haynes Group policy. The impact of 
this change has been to increase the year-on-year 
intangible amortisation charge by approximately £0.4 
million until 2013. Accordingly, whilst the increasing 
annual charge does impact on the Group’s reportable 
profit each year it does not impact on the Group’s 
cash flows. Group cash ended the year at £4.8 
million (2011: £5.4 million). It is pertinent to note 
that the Group’s cash balances have been reduced 
by £2.4 million following the purchase of 1.2 million 
of our ordinary shares for placing in Treasury and 
absent the share buy backs, Group cash would have 
ended the year at £7.2 million, an increase of 33% 
over the prior period. 12
Group Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
Pensions 
During the year 
and following a full 
consultation process 
with the employees, 
the UK defined benefit 
pension scheme 
was restructured, 
reducing certain 
member benefits 
and increasing 
the members’ 
contribution by 3%. 
From the perspective 
of the employer 
these are not easy decisions to reach, but with the 
average UK population now living longer and asset 
returns adversely impacted by the global economic 
downturn, the action was necessary to try and 
secure the future of the scheme for the benefit of the 
members. I would like to thank the members of the 
UK scheme for their understanding and pragmatism 
over the need for the action and their willingness 
to work with the Company to try and retain their 
pension scheme by placing the scheme on a more 
affordable basis going forward.
As at 31 May 2012 the aggregate deficit on the two 
defined benefit schemes as reported in accordance 
with IAS 19 was £10.0 million (2011: £10.4 million) 
with the schemes total assets increasing by £1.9 
million to £25.2 million (2011: £23.3 million) and total 
liabilities increasing by £1.5 million to £35.2 million 
(2011: £33.7 million).
Group outlook
The global markets in which we operate are clearly 
troubled at the present time. In June 2012, the 
US Federal Reserve announced an extension of 
“Operation Twist” and, at the same time, lowered 
its forecast for GDP and raised their expectation of 
the unemployment rate until 2014. In the UK, there 
are few signs that the economy will grow by any 
meaningful extent over the coming twelve months. 
Whilst in Europe, the 
financial instability of 
the Eurozone countries 
continues to unsettle 
the financial markets 
and by association, 
business and 
consumer confidence. 
As a group with a 
significant exposure 
to these economies, 
we are inevitably 
concerned over the 
economic landscape 
for the coming year. 
Yet despite this gloomy outlook and the fact that 
conditions in the retail automotive aftermarket remain 
very challenging, we are optimistic over the future 
prospects for the Haynes Group.
In the UK, the electronic manuals online website went 
live in early June. This will be followed by Australia 
later in the year and group-wide we will continue to 
add to the range of electronic titles over the course 
of the coming year. The development of an electronic 
platform for our non-automotive manuals and book 
trade titles, which will incorporate encryption and 
digital rights management, is well under way and we 
anticipate the first e-book titles will be available by 
the mid-part of our financial year.
In September 2012, the Haynes Group will be 
attending the bi-annual Automechanika trade show 
aimed at the professional automotive aftermarket and 
held in Frankfurt, Germany. This is an excellent forum 
to meet with new and existing customers and to 
provide the Group with the chance to show case our 
leading workshop data software in front of the major 
buying groups in Europe.  
Our research into new geographical markets 
continues. Towards the end of our financial year we 
held discussions with organisations in both China 
and Brazil regarding a variety of potential new 
initiatives and these discussions remain ongoing. We 
will also continue to explore acquisition opportunities 
where such opportunities fit into our forward strategy 
and will provide the Haynes Group with revenue and 
earnings growth potential.
We do not underestimate the challenges which lie 
ahead over the next twelve months. Nevertheless, 
we start the new financial year with a strong financial 
base and a number of new initiatives in the pipeline. 
Our multi-media platforms provide the Group with 
an excellent opportunity to extend the reach of our 
core products to new markets as well as offering 
new products in our existing markets and although 
we expect trading conditions to remain difficult for 
the foreseeable future, the above factors coupled 
with the exciting opportunities which will derive from 
our significant in-house IT capabilities allows us to 
remain confident over the future prospects for the 
Haynes Group.
Eric Oakley  
Group Chief Executive                 
12 September 2012
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
A
s
t
w
c
e
fo
