 8
Business overview
The last twelve months have once again thrown 
up challenges in our traditional sales channels but 
nevertheless, we continue to make strong progress 
in other areas of the business. The performance 
of our professional data business in Europe has 
continued to perform well, despite the uncertain 
economic backdrop. Our digital Haynes manuals 
online are now available in all the Group’s major 
geographic markets. Whilst the revenue from these 
new Haynes digital ranges remains relatively modest 
in overall Group terms, the take-up from our end 
users is increasing and the fact that the development 
of the platforms and the conversion of the text 
to digital files has been developed entirely using 
in-house resources is a testament to the technical 
capabilities we possess within the Haynes Group.
 
Strategic review
Towards the end of calendar year 2012, the Board 
commenced a strategic review of the business, 
the principal aim of which was to identify a clear 
pathway for the Group to return to revenue and profit 
growth. The Board has now concluded its review and 
has recently commenced action to implement the 
resulting recommendations. 
When we first entered the current economic decline 
back in 2007, we knew that Group revenue and 
profitability would come under pressure and yet for 
the first five years, through a tight control over costs 
and working capital, we were able to weather the 
storm well and maintain group profitability. However, 
some six years later, the challenges still remain and 
there are few signs that the economic pressures we 
currently face will ease in the near future. We are 
also cognisant that there have been some structural 
changes in the markets we traditionally serve and, as 
a result, we need to adapt our own business model. 
In the UK, our business structure has been based 
around ‘vertical integration’ which has allowed 
us to control the origination, design, printing and 
distribution of our own titles. However, for the UK 
operation, the traditional benefits associated with a 
vertically integrated business have gradually been 
diminishing as the marketplace for our general 
publishing titles has changed and as sales volumes 
have fallen. In recent years, the structure of the 
business has not afforded us the flexibility we need 
to ensure our overall cost base reflects present day 
business performance. Over the last twelve months it 
has become clear that change is required, not just to 
the physical structure of the UK business but also in 
our UK publishing output.  
Our current premises in Sparkford, Somerset have 
served the company well but the site no longer 
meets the requirements of a modern information 
publishing business. We have therefore taken the 
decision to relocate the business to more suitably 
sized premises in the near term. This decision 
has called into question the need for the 
UK business to continue with its in-house 
distribution facility. The book distribution 
market has changed significantly from when 
the business first started and, whilst we 
are very proud of the service we provide 
our customers, the investment that would 
be needed to upgrade the UK facility for 
the requirements of a modern day logistics 
operation would far outweigh the future benefit 
to the business. The Board has therefore, 
concluded it is no longer commercially feasible 
to maintain a UK distribution facility and the 
process of transferring this part of the business 
to a third party logistics provider will begin 
shortly.
Group Chief Executive’s Review
“
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2013
   Revenue from digital sources have 
increased from just over 10% to nearly 
20% in five years and a large proportion 
of this revenue is either contract or 
subscription based.
“ 9
We have also examined the type and style of books 
and digital information that we publish.  Over the 
last five years we have been expanding the Haynes 
brand to capitalise on our position as one of the 
foremost global suppliers of automotive information. 
We have done this through adding to our range of 
iconic Haynes Car and Motorcycle Manuals, new 
titles covering more general DIY topics such as 
home, garden and leisure as well as publishing a 
range of entertainment manuals, from The Lancaster 
to the USS Enterprise. In each of these areas it is 
the Haynes brand that brings the products credibility 
and it is the Haynes Owners Workshop Manual 
format that delivers the highest publishing margins. 
Therefore, going forward, we will be re-focussing our 
publishing strategy on these higher margin titles and 
will be amalgamating our UK automotive and general 
publishing editorial functions into a single combined 
UK editorial department.
Once complete, the above restructuring is expected 
to result in the loss of a relatively small number of 
roles in the UK business. 
In addition to the above measures, we are aware 
that the key to a successful digital strategy is a 
strong global shop window from which we can 
engage with our end users. We will therefore, be 
designing and implementing a new online consumer 
facing global website which will allow the Group to 
interact with our target audiences world-wide, to 
deliver trustworthy and practical advice in multiple 
languages and through a range of different media 
devices. The first phase of this project will involve 
the building of a new global website, which we are 
able to undertake in-house using the IT expertise and 
language translation skills within HaynesPro. 
Alongside the structural repositioning of the UK 
business, the Board sees growth opportunities 
for the Group through the development of its 
professional product range, sold through the 
HaynesPro brand, in new geographical markets. 
At the same time we will also actively seek 
complementary acquisitions to accelerate our growth 
strategy, provide us with greater market share and 
drive synergies, or simply help grow the core data 
upon which our business model is built. Whilst any 
business decision which impacts on our existing 
and often long serving employee base is difficult to 
make, the Board believes that the above changes to 
the UK operations are vital at this time to put the UK 
business back on a firm financial footing from which 
we can grow the business. 
Operating results overview
The lower mix of automotive manual income in 
both the US and the UK, which still represents just 
over two thirds of overall Group revenues, coupled 
with the very challenging conditions for our general 
publishing titles has left overall Group revenue down 
7% at £27.6 million (2012: £29.8 million). 
The impact of the lower core revenue which 
traditionally carries a higher margin and an increase 
in new product development cost amortisation of 
£0.4 million have combined to lower the Group’s 
overall gross margin to 58.5% (2012: 59.9%). With 
Group overheads down 3% against the prior period 
and net finance costs, which almost entirely relate 
to the movement on the Group’s defined pension 
scheme assets and liabilities, of £0.1 million (2012: 
£0.4 million) Group pre-tax profits ended the year 
down 23% at £3.6 million (2012: £4.7 million). Group 
EBITDA which excludes the above finance costs 
and development cost amortisation was £6.6 million 
(2012: £7.7 million).  10
Segmental overview
North America and Australia
At the half year we reported a 6% reduction in 
local currency revenue from the North American 
and Australian operations, as weaker ordering 
from a small number of key US retailers impacted 
the performance of the business but was partially 
offset by strong revenue growth in Australia. During 
the second six months of the financial year, we 
experienced some softening of conditions in the 
Australian markets and with no notable improvement 
in our important US markets, overall North American 
and Australian revenue ended the second six month 
period down 15% and for the year as a whole 
down 11%. With an average US Dollar exchange 
rate against Sterling during the year of $1.57 (2012: 
$1.59), after translation to Sterling the shortfall was 
10% at £14.0 million (2012: £15.5 million).
Although trading conditions in Australia softened 
during the second six months, overall Australian 
revenue still ended the twelve months 9% ahead of 
the prior year, as the new display racking and sales 
initiatives implemented during the prior period had 
a positive effect on sales. In Australia, we also work 
closely with some of the large vehicle manufacturers 
to produce own branded products and whilst the 
margin from this revenue channel is lower than that 
enjoyed for our core automotive manuals, it has 
nevertheless been a solid growth area for this part of 
the business during the year.
Discussions between senior management and some 
of our largest US retailers to find solutions to reverse 
the softer manual sales are continuing. However, 
US management takes comfort from those retail 
customers where new marketing initiatives and 
product promotions have been implemented and 
have had a positive impact on sales performance.  
In light of the softer revenue figures, segmental 
operating profit in local currency ended the year 
at $2.8 million (2012: $4.2 million) which after 
translation to Sterling was down 31% at £1.8 million 
(2012: £2.6 million).
United Kingdom and Europe
At the half year stage we had experienced a 
disappointing six months of trading in both our UK 
automotive and general publishing divisions, with 
revenue shortfalls against the prior period of 12% 
and 19% respectively. Whilst, we have experienced 
a slight improvement in the demand for our UK 
automotive manuals during the second six months, 
with sales of owner workshop manuals up 2% and 
overall automotive manual sales ending the year 
7% down on last year, this more positive trend has 
not carried over into our general publishing division. 
The difficult trading conditions of the first six months 
continued into the second half of the year, with 
revenue from our non-automotive titles during the 
second six months down 17%, leaving overall revenue 
in this division 18% lower than the prior year. 
In mainland Europe, HaynesPro (having rebranded 
from Vivid Automotive in September 2012) has 
experienced another strong year of revenue growth, 
with local currency revenue ending the year 13% 
ahead of the prior year. The continued success of the 
HaynesPro business is built on an ability to design 
and develop new products and in September 2012, 
at the Automechanika show in Frankfurt, the business 
launched SmartCASE™ a unique database which 
allows mechanics to resolve issues and problems 
with help and tips from industry experts, for a wide 
range of European and Asian vehicles. This was 
followed by the launch of ‘ProFIT’, a new module 
which allows parts manufacturers to provide on-line 
Group Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11
installation instructions in 23 different languages on a 
comprehensive range of platforms including tablets, 
PCs and smart phones. The new module will also 
provide HaynesPro with an opportunity to market the 
product as an alternative solution in geographical 
regions where parts catalogues with fully integrated 
technical data sets are not yet widely used.
In light of the lower UK sales, overall UK and European 
revenue ended the year down 5% at £13.7 million 
(2012: £14.4 million) and with higher HaynesPro 
development cost amortisation of £0.4 million, UK and 
European segmental operating profit ended the period 
down 50% at £0.9 million (2012: £1.8 million).
Taxation
The Group’s charge to taxation during the year was 
£1.1 million (2012: £1.5 million) with an effective rate 
of 31.3% (2012: 31.6%). The total charge for taxation 
during the year reflects that the Haynes Group has 
trading subsidiaries in a number of different countries 
around the world, each with their own national rates 
of corporate tax which are applied to the profits 
generated locally. This mix of profits in different tax 
jurisdictions is reflected in the Group’s effective tax 
rate.
Working capital and cash flows
During the year the Group acquired new freehold 
premises in Bucharest at a cost of 0.5 million 
to accommodate the growing team of digital 
technicians in the Romanian business. Yet despite 
this one-off capital expenditure and the pressures 
on our core revenue streams during the year, the 
operating profit to cash conversion rate remained 
strong, with the Group’s net cash inflow from 
continuing operations before tax ending the year at 
£6.9 million (2012: £8.7 million) which represented 
184% of Group operating profit (2012: 170%).
Revenue from digital sources have increased from 
just over 10% to nearly 20% in five years and a 
large proportion of this revenue is either contract 
or subscription based and in the case of our 
professional product ranges, the contracts can be 
up to three years in duration. Therefore, this provides 
management with an increasingly valuable visibility 
when forecasting future revenue and cash flows. 
h fl
n 
d
d 12
Group Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
Pensions 
As at 31 May 2013, the aggregate deficit on the 
Group’s two defined benefit schemes (UK and US) as 
reported in accordance with IAS 19 was £12.1 million 
(2012: £10.0 million) with total scheme assets of 
£28.5 million (2012: £25.2 million) and total scheme 
liabilities of £40.6 million (2012: £35.2 million). A 
reduction in the US discount rate from 5.0% to 4.5% 
and a higher UK inflation assumption from 2.3% to 
3.1% are the principal factors contributing to the 
higher reportable deficit. It is relevant to note that 
this is the deficit measured under IAS 19 and not 
the deficit derived from the valuation methodologies 
adopted by the UK and US Scheme actuaries to 
determine the level of on-going funding for the two 
schemes.   
An amendment to IAS 19 is effective for companies 
with financial year-ends beginning on or after 1 
January 2013 and will impact the Group for the first 
time next year. In line with the provisions of the new 
standard, the Company will be required to use the 
schemes’ discount rate to calculate the return on 
assets rather than using an average rate of return 
for each class of asset as appropriate. The change 
is expected to reduce the income generated by the 
schemes’ assets, as recorded within the Income 
Statement, by approximately £0.4 million.
Group outlook
The priority over the coming months will be the 
implementation of the recommendations from the 
strategic review which will help reduce the cost 
base of our UK business and focus publishing 
activities on to the higher margin titles. Some of the 
recommendations such as the relocation of the UK 
business may take longer to implement, but work 
on these important projects will commence shortly. 
The expected one-off costs of the restructuring 
programme which primarily relate to employee 
and author contract exit costs will be £1.3 million 
and will have a negative impact on our financial 
performance in the current year. However, following 
the restructuring, the cost savings to the UK business 
are anticipated to be £0.5 million in 2014/15, rising to 
£0.7 million in 2015/16. I am confident that with the 
actions we have taken the UK element of the UK & 
European business will return to profit.
On Tuesday 17 September 2013 the Group acquired 
the trade and assets of Clymer and Intertec Manuals 
in the United States. Clymer is the market leader 
worldwide in DIY repair manuals for Motorcycles 
thereby making Haynes now the dominant force in 
DIY repair for motorcycles. Clymer also takes us 
into new markets for inboard and outboard marine 
applications, personal watercraft and snowmobiles 
and Intertec takes us into the agricultural equipment 
market (primarily farm tractors). The transaction is 
earnings enhancing with good profit opportunities 
through synergies and enhancement of product 
offerings into various digital platforms through the 
skills at HaynesPro. The deal was a cash transaction 
funded through existing resources including almost 
60% internal cash and the balance in debt. It is 
anticipated that in simple payback terms it will pay 
back in under four years on the basis of current 
sales. 
We will also seek to utilise our strong financial 
position to pursue other acquisitions which will  
help the Group achieve sustainable revenue and 
earnings growth.
Eric Oakley  
Group Chief Executive                 
20 September 2013
Haynes Publishing Group P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2013
