 haysplc.com 09 08 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
BALANCING
SHORT TERM
ACTIONS WITH
LONG TERM
INVESTMENT
We are balancing the actions taken
to protect current proﬁtability with
the investment required to build
leadership both now and in the
next cycle of growth. The recruitment markets this year have been the most
challenging on record. We responded early by rapidly adjust ing
the cost base, focusing on cash generation, redirecting resources
into more resilient markets and investing to grow market share.
This approach has delivered good levels of proﬁtability in a
difficult market environment combined with an excellent cash
ﬂow performance.
Addressing the cost base
During the year, we have carefully balanced short-term actions
to protect current proﬁtability with longer-term investment
to build our business. To address the short-term conditions,
we have cut costs signiﬁcantly, primarily by reducing global
headcount by 26%*** and consolidating a number of our
offices, principally in the UK & Ireland. These actions resulted
in our cost base at the end of the year being 24% below the
cost base at the start of the year. 
Investment
We have also invested in our business to grow market
share both in the short term and long term. Firstly, we
have defended infrastructure in businesses that are at early
stages of development, particularly in Continental Europe and
Asia, where the long-term growth opportunities are substantial.
Secondly, we have added resources into more resilient sectors
including Healthcare, Education, Oil & Gas, and Pharmaceutical
and the wider public sector where we see good opportunities
for growth. Thirdly, we have invested in our account management
infrastructure to increase our share of the large corporate
market. Fourthly, we have continued to selectively invest
internationally, starting operations during the year in India
and Russia.
Innovation
Having built an infrastructure that covers the globe, has
deep expertise across a wide range of skills and sectors and
is increasingly enabled by technology, we are now innovating
and developing ways to leverage that infrastructure to further
differentiate ourselves in the market. Whilst the core of our
business, helping our clients ﬁnd the experts they need for
their own businesses and helping candidates ﬁnd the right
role for themselves, will remain unchanged, we are developing
new ways of delivering our services. 
During the year, we launched a global resourcing service called
‘LOCATE’, which uses our international network to help ﬁnd and
attract skilled physicians and nurses for our clients from all over
 Directors’ Report – Business Review
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
10 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
Alistair Cox 
Chief Executive
A GOOD PERFORMANCE
IN A DIFFICULT MARKET
ENVIRONMENT
Review of 2009
Year ended 30 June Actual LFL* 
(In £’s million) 2009 2008 growth growth
Net fees 670.8 786.8 (15)% (18)%
Operating profit from 158.0 253.8 (38)% (40)%
continuing activities**
Basic earnings per share** 7.72p 12.59p (39)%
* LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant
currency. There were the same number of trading days in 2009 and 2008.
** Continuing activities only. 2008 numbers are presented pre-exceptional items. There were
no exceptional items in 2009.
*** Relates to the change in consultants shown on a closing basis, comparing 30 June 2009
versus 30 June 2008. the world. We also launched Hays Digital and Creative, which
provides a broad range of technology-driven communication
products and services, from candidate attraction, mobile
messaging and web-based recruitment, through to video
production and the use of social media. We are seeing high
levels of interest in these services and currently have around
200 bespoke client recruitment microsites online.
By having deep expertise across a wide range of job categories,
national and international coverage and an ability to source
temporary, permanent and interim staff, we are uniquely able
to provide a complete solution to our clients to cover all their
professional, qualiﬁed and skilled recruiting needs. To best
leverage this array of services, we continue to strengthen our
major accounts infrastructure. As a result, we have made good
progress in signing multi-specialism contracts with an increasing
number of large private and public sector organisations across
the world. Many of our clients are further beneﬁting from
our ability to manage their entire recruitment process on an
outsourced basis, providing them with greater levels of cost
control and transparency than via the more traditional in-house
recruiting model. For example, in the UK we recently signed a
10-year contract as exclusive partner to Buckinghamshire
County Council to recruit all their professional and skilled people
across a wide range of job categories. Our ability to combine the
management of a client’s recruitment process, with the delivery
of the skills they require across multiple disciplines, is a further
important differentiator for us.
Finally, we have made excellent progress rolling out our new IT
systems. These programmes are designed to give our global front
office the best database systems available, as well as automate
signiﬁcant portions of our UK back office administration. When
completed, we will have the best platforms in the industry, which
will make us more efficient and further enhance our services to
customers. I am pleased to say both programmes are on track
and are due for completion in 2010.
These are just some examples of the ways we are investing
in our business to build long-term differentiation with the aim
of ensuring that we are well positioned to take full advantage
when our markets improve. 
Strategy and priorities for 2010
Our underlying aim and strategy remains fundamentally
unchanged irrespective of the economic backdrop. Our
aim is to build the pre-eminent global business in specialist
recruitment. Our strategy for achieving this divides into four
haysplc.com 11
“We have defended infrastructure in businesses that are at
early stages of development, particularly in Continental
Europe and Asia, where the long term opportunities
are substantial.”
Our strategy
eff ectiveness
Operational
our business
Growth by replicating
people in the industry
Develop the best
around the world
One Hays
components: improving operational effectiveness, developing
the best people in the industry, applying a ‘Hays way’ of doing
things consistently across the world, and growing our business
by replicating what we do geographically and sectorally.
For 2010, this strategy translates into the following key areas
of focus:
1. Cash, proﬁt and productivity maximisation
We will continue to deal with challenging short-term trading
conditions by focusing on proﬁt, productivity and cash ﬂow
maximisation. This will require continued close control of the
cost base, reducing it further where necessary. However, we will
be cautious about reducing costs further in those parts of our
business where operations are at an early stage of development
or where we see the need to retain infrastructure to allow us to
rapidly build a market-leading position once the market stabilises.  2. Increase market share
We believe that recession provides a good opportunity for
ﬁnancially strong businesses like ours to increase market share.
Our broad capability means we can target resources on those
areas of the market that are both currently resilient and have
attractive long-term growth characteristics. Firstly, this means
continuing to invest in more resilient sectors like Healthcare,
Education, Oil & Gas, Pharmaceutical and the wider public
sector. Secondly, we will leverage our new account management
infrastructure to win more large corporate accounts. Thirdly, we
will continue to selectively invest in the international network
taking account of both current economic trends and long-term
opportunities. Fourthly, we will be ready to add resources into
the more cyclical sectors when we see signs of recovery in
our markets.
3. Complete rollout of IT systems
We are already half way through the rollout of our new front
office and back office IT systems. The priority this year is to
complete the rollout in 2010 and to start exploiting the systems
to their full advantage with the dual aim of improving customer
service and the efficiency of our business. As this process
approaches completion, we will start to shift our focus to
developing our online capability and presence: we are market
leaders in specialist recruitment and we want to fully develop
a powerful online presence that reﬂects this.
4. Strengthen our brand positioning
Market-leading companies have market-leading brands.
We want our brand to be synonymous with ‘Powering the
world of work’. To achieve this, we are refreshing our branding
to address areas where we have identiﬁed improvement is
needed. This Report is a reﬂection of some of the changes
we are already making. In addition, we plan to increase our
investment per head in training to ensure that our recruitment
consultants have the expertise in their sectors that our clients
and candidates demand. This will allow us to live up to our
promise of ‘Recruiting experts worldwide’.
Whilst we anticipate that 2010 will be another tough year
for our industry, we must not lose sight of the fact that many
of the markets in which we operate are at very early stages
of development and will provide us with substantial growth
opportunities over the long term. We will, therefore, continue
to take advantage of the downturn to build market share and
maintain our investment in a wide range of operational areas
to strengthen our business for the long term. Whilst current
market conditions persist, we will manage this balance, remaining
conﬁdent in the resilience of our business as well as excited
about how we will develop our business in the future. 
Alistair Cox
Chief Executive
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
12 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
“We will be ready to add resources into the more cyclical
sectors when we see signs of recovery in our markets.” haysplc.com 13
SHORT TERM VISIBILITY: 
LIMITED 
LONG TERM OPPORTUNITIES:
LIMITLESS
Market drivers
The multiplier effect and cyclical growth
As positions are ﬁlled, new vacancies are automatically 
created generating a multiplier effect on demand. Hence
economic growth has a leveraged impact on our business.
Increasing deregulation
Deregulation, particularly in Continental Europe, is opening
up new markets for our services, generally making it easier
for us to operate and grow.
Cultural changes 
Increasing awareness and willingness to use specialist 
recruitment services in sectors and countries that,
historically, have not been familiar with specialist
recruitment services.
Structural skills shortage
Skill shortages means businesses are using our services to
help ﬁll highly-skilled roles.
Increasing flexibility demands
Increasing demand by employers and employees for 
ﬂexible employment is driving longer-term growth in the
temporary placement market.
Increasing job velocity
People are changing jobs more frequently, which will create 
a greater demand for our services.
Market opportunities*
OUR INTERNATIONAL MARKETS ARE AT VERY EARLY
STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT WITH SUBSTANTIAL
LONG TERM GROWTH AHEAD OF THEM
UK
GERMANY
FRANCE
SPAIN
ITALY
NETHERLANDS
BELGIUM
CANADA
Hays net fees.
Country population.*
* Hays view the country population as a useful indicator of the long-term potential market
size in each country. haysplc.com 15
TIMING OF
ECONOMIC
RECOVERY:
UNCERTAIN 
HAYS’ ABILITY 
TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE
WHEN IT 
COMES: 
CERTAIN
14 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
Four key characteristics that position Hays well for the upturn:
PURE PLAY SPECIALIST RECRUITMENT
£2.4bn revenue/345 offices
MARKET LEADING POSITIONS
Number 1 in UK & Australia and top 3 in most of Continental Europe
ATTRACTIVE MARKETS WORLDWIDE
With strong long term growth drivers
BUSINESS MODEL REPLICATES
On global scale with low expansion risk
