 people better equipped to win in the market conditions of today. 
All these investments position us extremely well to capitalise on 
the next phase of growth.
This year our strategy is focused on driving growth. In the 
international markets we will expand our business through 
organic replication of our operations, building greater scale in our 
existing business and entering a number of exciting new markets 
which we believe have high potential. In the UK, we will retain our 
focus on strengthening our market-leading position by driving 
efficiencies and building market share to ensure the business  
is well positioned to capitalise as trading conditions improve.
dividend
Our dividend policy is designed to support a sustainable dividend 
across the economic cycle, whilst also delivering a progressive 
dividend during periods of growth. After taking account of the 
improving trends in the second half of the year, the Board’s 
confidence in the outlook, and the strength of the Group’s balance 
sheet, the Board proposes to hold the final dividend at last year’s 
level of 3.95 pence. This would result in a full year dividend of 
5.80 pence (2009: 5.80 pence).
people
The past couple of years have been particularly tough for our 
people with many individuals having to take on additional roles 
and responsibilities as we have taken the measures necessary to 
navigate the downturn. However, these difficult times have been 
met at all levels with a level of commitment and determination of 
which I am extremely proud and on behalf of the Board I would 
like to offer our thanks to all our people around the world.
More encouragingly we began to increase our headcount in  
the second half of the year, bringing over 200 new people into 
the business. I welcome our new recruits and I am extremely 
confident that the high level of professionalism and enterprise 
within the business will provide a strong environment within 
which they can develop and build their careers. 
c orporate responsibility
Our approach to corporate responsibility covers a broad range  
of philosophies, activities and standards which are provided in 
detail later in the Annual Report. Again this year we have, as an 
organisation, undertaken numerous events to raise money for 
charity. We organised a fundraising day for the UNICEF Haiti 
Appeal across our global business. In the UK our ‘Beat the moon’ 
event saw over 100 employees climb, cycle, canoe and run across 
the Lake District for our designated UK charity, Action For 
Children. These represent just two of many events which took 
place during the year and which raised over £290,000. This 
characterises and pays testament to both the generosity and 
spirit that exists within the organisation.
Our business has an inherent agility 
and flexibility. Combined with the 
investments we have made we are 
well positioned to capitalise fully  
on the improving market conditions.
We entered the year facing the toughest markets on record  
with most parts of our business contending with reductions in 
demand of more than 40%. Against this background, our business 
achieved a good level of profitability, accruing the benefits of the 
early action taken to reduce the cost base in the previous year. 
In the first half of the year, consultant numbers were reduced 
further giving an overall reduction of 32% from peak levels.  
As we moved into the second half of the year, most of our 
markets started to recover and we rapidly responded by 
reinvesting, particularly in Asia Pacific where we increased  
the headcount by 17% during the second half. As a result,  
we achieved a considerably improved performance in the  
second half of the year and the Group returned to year-on-year 
growth in the fourth quarter. 
Whilst earnings per share* for the year decreased by 58%,  
we consider this to be a solid performance against a difficult 
backdrop. Our business has been thoroughly stress tested over 
the last 18 months and I am pleased to say that we have not only 
demonstrated that our business is built to withstand very tough 
market conditions but we have also delivered one of the leading 
financial performances in the sector.
Whilst we took all the actions necessary to manage the business 
in the downturn we have been extremely careful not to lose  
sight of our long-term objective of capitalising on the tremendous 
structural growth opportunities present in our markets.  
We protected our operational footprint by maintaining our 
geographical coverage and the specialisms offered in each of  
our markets. As reported to you last year, in spite of the difficult 
conditions in our markets we ring-fenced our investment in three 
key areas:
1. IT development programmes 
2. Brand enhancement 
3. People training and development.
As discussed in more detail later in the Annual Report, each of 
these is now beginning to deliver value with the major IT change 
programme concluding, the brand roll-out focused on ‘expertise’ 
as our key differentiator now featuring in all our markets and our 
return to gro Wth
06 Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010
Directors’ report – Bus iness review:
chairman’s statement oft investigation
On 30 September 2009, The Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’) issued 
its decision, finding that Hays’ Construction & Property business 
in the UK had breached competition law in the period October 
2004 to November 2005. After cooperating fully with the OFT, 
Hays was fined £30.4 million. Whilst the investigation related to 
an isolated matter arising from the conduct of a single employee 
who is no longer with the company and affected only a small part 
of our UK Construction & Property business, we were incredibly 
disappointed to find ourselves involved in such an investigation 
and I can assure you the Board has taken the findings of the 
investigation extremely seriously. Immediately on learning of  
the investigation, we considerably strengthened the Group’s 
compliance and training in this area, and implemented a detailed 
training programme for all key employees. However, we also 
consider the level of the fine to be both arbitrary and wholly 
disproportionate to the activities to which it relates, and hence  
we are currently appealing the decision.
summary
As a shareholder, this is the first major recession during which  
you have been able to assess the resilience of our business  
model. This has been particularly demonstrated by our ability  
to defend profitability in the first half of the year and then focus 
on identified areas of growth in the second half. The inherent  
agility and flexibility of our business model, combined with  
our investment detailed above, position us to capitalise on  
the improving market conditions in nearly all our markets.
As announced on 15 July 2010, I shall be retiring at the  
Annual General Meeting in November and handing the reins  
to Alan Thomson. Since the announcement I have spent much 
time with Alan and he has an outstanding set of skills combined 
with the personality to lead Hays to even greater success.
Since joining the Board in 1998, I have witnessed the 
transformation of the Group into a focused professional 
recruitment business with an increasingly global footprint.  
Today, we are emerging from one of the deepest recessions of 
modern times and Hays, led by Alistair and his executive team,  
is well positioned to capitalise on the exciting opportunities for 
growth available in our markets. On a personal note, I have greatly 
enjoyed my time in the business. I have had exceptional support 
from the Hays team and the Group’s advisors and I do sincerely 
wish everyone all the success that is so richly deserved.
 
bob l awson 
Chairman
* Before exceptional items.
Business e volution – s pecialisms 38 17
FY92 FY01 FY10
Business e volution – co untries 39 28
FY92 FY01 FY10
Directors’ r eport – Business r eview Di rectors’ r e port – Governance r emu neration r epo rt – Governance Financial s ta tements Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010 07
“ Since joining the Board in 1998,  
I have witnessed the transformation 
of the Group into a focused 
professional recruitment business 
with an increasingly global footprint. ” Directors’ report – Bus iness review:
market drivers
inc reasing job velocity
People are changing jobs more 
frequently, which creates a greater 
demand for our services.
increasing flexibility 
de mands
Increasing demand by employers and 
employees for flexible employment  
is driving longer-term growth in  
the temporary placement market.
increasing 
der egulation
Deregulation, particularly in 
Continental Europe, is opening  
up new markets for our services, 
generally making it easier for us  
to operate and grow.
substantial 
market o pportunit y
t he multiplier effect 
a nd cyclical gro Wth
As positions are filled, new vacancies 
are automatically created generating  
a multiplier effect on demand. Hence 
economic growth has a leveraged 
impact on our business.
structural skills 
shortage
Skill shortages means businesses  
are increasingly using our services  
to help fill highly-skilled roles.
c ultural changes
Increasing awareness and willingness 
to use specialist recruitment services  
in sectors and countries that, 
historically, have not been familiar  
with specialist recruitment services.
08 Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010 “ In many countries, for example 
Japan, a job used to be for life. 
Now people are changing job 
more frequently, particularly 
the younger generation.” 
c hristine Wright 
Managing Director, Japan
Only around 20% of 
professional and skilled jobs  
in the international markets are 
filled by recruitment groups.
INTERNAL
CORPORATE HR
DEPARTMENTS
PROFESSIONAL
RECRUITMENT
GROUPS
embryonic international 
markets
net fee track record
The Hays professional 
recruitment business has 
achieved growth in 16 out of  
the last 19 years, with over 95% 
of this growth being organic.
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
93 92 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10
NET FEES (£M)
Our international markets are 
at early stages of development 
with substantial long-term 
growth ahead of them.
market opportunities
UK
CANADA
BENELUX
BRAZIL
SPAIN
JAPAN
FRANCE
GERMANY
 Hays net fees
 Country population
MARKET OPPORTUNITIES*
*  Hays view the country population as a useful indicator of the 
long-term potential market size in each country.
Directors’ r eport – Business r eview Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010 09
Financial s ta tements r emu neration r epo rt – Governance Directors’ r eport – Governance
