 1. Cash, profit and productivity maximisation
In the first half of the year, the clear priority was cost control. 
Where necessary, we reduced headcount and over the first half 
Group consultant headcount declined by 4%, bringing the total 
reduction from peak to 32%. Later in the year as we saw markets 
stabilise and recover, we quickly moved from cost reduction into 
investment mode, initially in Asia Pacific and then into other 
important markets including Germany and Brazil. Our ability  
to capitalise on this shift in the markets enabled us to increase 
operating profit by 23%* in the second half versus the first half.
At the same time, we maintained our focus on cash generation, 
delivering another strong cash performance for the year with  
97% conversion of operating profit** into operating cash flow***.
2. Increasing market share
Recessions provide opportunities for strong businesses to 
reinforce their market position and this is what we have achieved 
over the year. We have concentrated our resources on the more 
resilient parts of the market and developed our services to ensure 
they are relevant to our clients in an evolving marketplace. This 
has allowed us to continue to grow parts of our business despite 
the prevailing economic backdrop. Our Pharma business,  
for example, grew net fees by 35%* versus last year as we rolled 
out these services across our international network. Despite the 
pressures on the UK public sector, our Healthcare and Education 
businesses also grew at 29% and 4%, respectively, as we made 
further inroads into these markets.
Around the world, several of our larger clients have sought ways 
of consolidating their supplier base for their recruitment needs 
and looked to partner with organisations who can serve them 
across multiple job categories and sometimes multiple countries. 
This client-driven evolution in the market plays to our strength in 
international coverage and sectoral diversification and we have 
developed our capabilities to best address these opportunities. 
As a result we have further enhanced our market-leading position, 
for example winning multi-service contracts with Bank of America 
and JP Morgan in the UK financial services market, the Audit 
Commission and Department for Business, Enterprise and 
Regulatory Reform (BERR) in the UK public sector, Goodyear  
in China, JDSU across Europe and Asia, and Sony in Europe.  
Our strategy and ability to capture the majority of all professional 
recruiting needs for major organisations such as these will  
be a key driver of growth and market share as recruitment 
volumes recover.
Finally, as mentioned earlier, gaining market share means 
investing in our consultant base. By investing quickly in 
headcount growth in recovering markets around the world  
and redeploying consultants into more resilient markets,  
net fees grew by 8% in the second half versus the first half.
Throughout the recession, we have 
been unwavering in our commitment 
to build a stronger, broader based 
and more efficient business.
revie W o f 2010
2010 was a year of two very distinct halves. After a challenging 
2009, we started 2010 with markets continuing to present  
some of the most difficult conditions on record. The scale and 
pace of the decline in our markets during the downturn was 
unprecedented. In little more than 12 months our global 
permanent placement business halved. Our UK private sector 
fees declined by 58% from their peak and many parts of our 
international business suffered even more severely. Against this 
backdrop, our immediate goal was to defend our business as 
robustly as possible and protect profitability by controlling costs.
The second half of the year was very different as recovery in  
key markets started to gain momentum. The recovery started in 
Australia and Asia and, as the year progressed, broadened across 
Europe and the Americas. Our focus shifted accordingly and, for 
the first time in over 18 months, we started to reinvest in building 
our consultant base to ensure we captured the recovery fully  
in each market. It is very encouraging that these early signs  
of recovery have become more widespread and more firmly 
entrenched in most of our markets and consequently we 
delivered a material rebound in profits during the second half, 
finishing the year with a strengthening outlook in over 90% of  
the business.
strategic progress in 2010
Last year I set out four key areas of focus for the Group. These 
objectives were designed to balance the short-term necessities of 
cash, profit and productivity maximisation with the longer-term 
strategic goals of increasing market share, strengthening our 
brand and completing the roll-out of world-class IT systems.  
I am pleased to say that we have made considerable progress  
in each area.
r ead y to capitalise  
o n the upturn
10 Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010
Directors’ report – Bus iness review:
c hief executive’s strategic r evie W 3. Complete roll-out of IT systems
Technology is a key tool to allow our consultants to do a better, 
faster, and more expert job for their customers. Our ability to  
best match a client’s need with the very best person for the job  
is a function of our consultants’ skill, the calibre of candidates  
we attract and the quality of their systems to find that perfect 
match. Having the very best systems is an important competitive 
advantage and I am pleased to say we have now substantially 
completed the global roll-out of our new front-office systems.
We have also substantially completed our UK back-office 
automation project. The new system is live and provides 
automated timesheet, payment and billing processes as  
well as real-time management information for driving our 
business. We have taken considerable costs out of our UK 
administrative functions, improved our customer service and, 
importantly, put in place a system with real economies of scale 
which will deliver significant returns as UK volumes recover.
4. Strengthen our brand position
Leading companies have leading brands and 2010 saw the launch 
of our new brand positioning: ‘Recruiting experts worldwide’.  
By exploiting our brand we aim to raise the profile of our business 
wherever we operate, differentiate ourselves from our competitors 
and better communicate our unique expertise to our customers.
The real value of our brand though is in our ability to embed and 
deepen our expertise in everything we do to continually improve 
the service experience for our clients and candidates. The quality 
of our brand ultimately depends on the quality of the service our 
consultants provide and that is why a large proportion of our 
investment this year has been focused on further strengthening 
our training programmes.
This has ranged from standardising our induction and technical 
training for consultants, and deepening our sector expertise skills 
through to the launch of the ‘ManagementDirect’ to develop our 
management and leadership capability in conjunction with the 
Chartered Institute of Management and leading international 
business schools. The benefit of these investments will be realised 
through improved customer satisfaction which, in turn, will deliver 
increased market share and fees. However, it is rewarding to see 
our efforts recognised and we have won several industry awards 
including ‘Best Temp/Interim Recruitment Firm’ for Hays UK 
Financial Markets and ‘Best Use of Online Recruitment’ at the 
2010 UK Online Recruitment Awards.
Directors’ r eport – Business r eview Di rectors’ r e port – Governance r emu neration r epo rt – Governance Financial s ta tements Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010 11
key characteristics that Will drive  
hay s’ long-term gro Wth
pure pl ay specialist r ecruitment 
£558m net fees/270 offices
mark et -le ading positions 
Top 3 in our core markets/No.1 worldwide†
at tractive mar kets Wor ld Wide 
Strong long-term growth drivers
bu siness model r eplicates 
Self-funding growth/low expansion risk
bal anced portfolio 
28 countries/17 specialisms/temp & perm
str ong cost control 
Market-leading CR%/flexible cost base
st ate o f t he a rt t echnology 
Market-leading IT systems
pr oven mana gement 
Underpinned by Hays DNA
hi ghl y c ash generative 
Low capital intensity/surplus cash returned 
† Measured by operating profit. priorities for 2011
Our unwavering objective is to build the pre-eminent global 
business in professional recruitment and we aim to do that 
regardless of the economic backdrop. To achieve this, our 
strategy revolves around four components: growing our business 
by replication, improving operational effectiveness, developing 
the best people in the industry and applying the ‘Hays Way’ of 
doing things consistently across the world. This translates into  
the following key areas of focus for 2011:
1. Continue international diversification
The long-term opportunities to develop a number of international 
markets are substantial. Over the years we have demonstrated 
our ability to capitalise on the structural changes in these 
markets, growing our international fees by 38% in 2007 and 54% 
in 2008. Five years ago we were a business dominated by our  
UK operations with only a quarter of our fees earned overseas. 
Today, 60% of our fees are delivered from our international 
markets and we expect this diversification to continue.
Our goal is to more than double our international consultant 
headcount within the next five years and we are on track to 
deliver that objective. We are continuing to add headcount across 
Asia Pacific, Germany and Brazil and expect to reinvest in the 
remainder of Continental Europe as the recovery gains traction. 
We also plan to expand into new geographies over the year.  
In the US, we will open operations in New Jersey to service our 
pharmaceutical clients initially. Following the tremendous success 
of our Brazilian business, we will commence our regional roll-out 
across South America with a launch in Mexico.
2. Drive productivity and efficiency gains
Having installed the core systems, we are now focussed on 
harnessing the full capacity of our new technology to drive 
consultant productivity, increase efficiency and enhance 
customer service.
We are also working on enhancing our online presence and 
providing our customers with a rich and user-friendly way of 
engaging with us via the internet. The internet is already a very 
important channel for us, but we aim to develop our online 
content and transactional capability further. Equally, our new 
state-of-the-art systems allow us to develop multiple platforms to 
communicate with clients and candidates in the way they choose. 
Hence, we have introduced applications developed specifically  
for the iPhone and iPad and we will continue to adapt our online 
presence for mobile platforms where appropriate.
3. Leverage the brand
Last year we launched the brand. This year we will entrench it  
into everything we do across the world. This means investment  
in more training, the development of new initiatives to enhance 
our customer service delivery, promoting our expertise in the 
professional employment marketplace and the development  
of thought-provoking and expert insights into key skills and 
employment issues in each of our markets around the world.  
Our entire business is based upon finding the right person for  
our clients’ needs. That is a hugely valuable service to provide  
and we intend to be the undisputed experts in the professional 
employment marketplace so all of our branding efforts will be 
directed at this goal.
4. Attract, retain and develop the best people
We are in an industry where the limiting factor on growth is not 
capital but people and their capabilities. Attracting, developing 
and retaining the best people is critical to our success. That is why 
we invested throughout the downturn to reinforce our training 
programmes and we will continue to do so as our business 
recovers. Our aim is to strengthen and broaden all aspects of  
our capability, from new consultants through to senior leaders, 
and ensure we can pursue more growth opportunities in parallel 
during the next cycle of growth.
bob l awson 
As we announced in July, Bob will retire from the Board and  
step down from his role as Chairman in November. On behalf  
of everyone at Hays I would like to thank Bob for the great 
commitment and leadership he has brought to the Group over  
the past 12 years. Bob oversaw the transformation of Hays from  
a conglomerate to a world-leading specialist recruitment business 
and was also instrumental in developing our company from being 
a principally UK business into an international group which now 
operates in 28 countries and generates the majority of fees from 
outside the UK. On a personal level I have immensely enjoyed 
working with Bob over the past three years and I would like to 
thank him for allowing me to benefit from his depth of knowledge 
and experience, together with his wise counsel and good humour. 
On behalf of all my colleagues, I wish him all the very best of luck 
in the future. 
“ This year will be about exploiting the opportunities in the upturn.  
We have dealt with the recession well, now we must capitalise on the 
momentum we are seeing in most of the markets in which we operate.”
12 Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010
Directors’ report – Bus iness review:
c hief executive’s strategic revie W I am also pleased to welcome to the Group Alan Thomson who 
will become our new Chairman following the Annual General 
Meeting in November. Alan brings a wealth and depth of 
international experience both from his current roles as Chairman 
of Bodycote plc, Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee 
Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc and non-executive director of 
Alstom SA. Alan joins us at a very exciting time in our journey and 
will bring a major contribution to our business.
summary
Throughout the recession, we have been unwavering in our 
commitment to build a stronger, broader based and more 
efficient business. Last year we ring-fenced and delivered on our 
key investment projects, despite tough trading conditions. This 
year our strategy remains substantially unchanged: to continue 
our international diversification and to build on the investments 
we have made in the areas of IT, marketing and people development. 
The key change is one of emphasis. Whilst last year was primarily 
about limiting the impact of the recession and strengthening the 
platform for future growth, this year will be about exploiting the 
opportunities in the upturn. We have dealt with the recession well, 
now we must capitalise on the momentum we are seeing in most 
of the markets in which we operate.
 
a listair c ox 
Chief Executive
gro Wth by r eplicating
•	 new specialisms in existing locations
•	 build scale in existing locations
•	 new territories in existing and  
new countries
on e h ays a round t he Wor ld
•	 a globally consistent customer 
experience
•	 a leading global brand
op erational effectiveness
•	 leverage front-office technology  
to increase consultant productivity
•	 employ new UK back-office 
technology to increase service levels 
and efficiencies
•	 develop our online capability
•	 further develop Corporate  
Accounts capability
best people in t he industry
•	 recruit, engage and retain the best
•	 industry-leading training
•	 world-class leadership development
•	 performance based culture
summary of the group strategy
*  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at 
constant currency. There were the same number of trading days in 2010 and 2009.
** Before exceptional items.
*** Excludes cash impact of exceptional items of £4.1 million paid in the year.
our strategy in action
On the following pages, case studies provide examples of how we are developing our business by:
•	building our presence in new specialisms in Germany;
•	adding more teams in existing locations in Asia;
•	rolling out our Pharma capability across our international network; and
•	moving our business into new geographies in South America.
Directors’ r eport – Business r eview Di rectors’ r e port – Governance r emu neration r epo rt – Governance Financial s ta tements Hays plc a nn ual r ep ort & Financial s ta tements 2010 13
