 13
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
Directors’ report | business review 
c hief executive’s strategic review
building a stronger, 
broader based and 
more efficient business
alistair c ox Chief e xe Cutive
Our	businesses	in	Brisbane,	Christchurch	and	T okyo	each	faced	natural	
disasters of unprecedented scale during the second half of the year. The 
disruption created in each location was severe and we all witnessed the 
heart-rending	scenes	of	destruction	and	loss.	It	is	a	testament	to	the	
spirit	and	commitment	of	all	our	people	in	each	of	these	businesses	 
who	overcame	these	harshest	of	challenges	and	quickly	re-established	
operations.	I	thank	each	and	every	one	of	them	for	their	outstanding	
efforts	and	they	are	a	credit	to	our	company.
strategic progress in 2011
As	well	as	delivering	strong	financial	results	in	the	short	term,	we	also	
have	a	clearly	laid	out	ambition	to	build	the	pre-eminent	global	business	
in	professional	recruitment.	Last	year	I	set	out	our	key	priorities	for	the	
year	towards	achieving	this	goal	and	I	am	pleased	to	say	that	we	have	
made significant progress in each area.
International	growth	and	diversification
T en	years	ago	just	14%	of	our	net	fees	were	generated	outside	the	 
UK.	T oday	67%	of	our	net	fees	come	from	our	International	divisions	
and	I	expect	this	trend	to	continue	after	another	excellent	year	of	
international growth.
Ours	is	an	industry	characterised	by	a	very	small	number	of	relatively	
mature	markets	around	the	world	and	a	very	large	number	of	immature	
markets where the concept of using agencies to help source 
professional	and	skilled	people	to	fill	key	roles	in	business	is	new.	In	
these immature markets, clients tend to undertake their professional 
recruitment	in-house.	Our	challenge	and	opportunity	is	to	demonstrate	
to	these	new	markets	the	value	we	can	bring	as	a	result	of	our	deep	
expertise	and	understanding	of	the	talent	marketplace	they	need	to	
access, whether that is for local resources or looking further afield for 
resources	from	the	global	market.	
Over	the	years	we	have	developed	our	approach	so	that	we	can	now	
very	quickly	establish	and	then	grow	new	businesses	in	new	markets	 
at	very	little	risk.	We	are	at	the	vanguard	of	our	industry	in	terms	of	
opening	up	these	opportunities:	building	scale	in	existing	operations,	
expanding	city	networks	in	existing	countries	and	opening	up	new	
countries. The results this year speak for themselves, having opened 
offices	in	12	new	cities	around	the	world,	launched	operations	in	Mexico	
and	the	United	States	and	increased	our	international	consultant	base	
by	27%	to	around	2,800	consultants.	Consequently,	we	are	currently	
well	on	track	to	deliver	on	our	ambition	set	out	in	April	2010	to	double	
our international consultant headcount over a five-year period.
We	have	continued	to	invest	rapidly	
across	the	growth	areas	of	the	business,	
while keeping firm control on costs and 
raising the productivity of our consultant 
base	worldwide.
r eview of performance in 2011 
We	delivered	a	strong	set	of	results	in	2011,	despite	the	challenges	of	the	
markets	and	the	economic	uncertainties	that	we	have	faced.	Our	focus	
has	been	to	react	quickly	to	those	challenges	and	to	capitalise	on	every	
opportunity	that	came	our	way.	By	doing	so,	we	grew	our	Group	net	
fees	by	18%
(1)
	and	I	see	that	as	a	very	encouraging	start	to	our	recovery	
since	the	depths	of	the	economic	downturn.	What	is	also	reassuring	 
is	how	widespread	this	recovery	has	been	around	the	world.	T wenty-
two	countries	grew	their	net	fees	by	over	20%
(1)
, with 12 of those 
countries	recording	over	40%
(1)
 net fee growth. The investments we 
have	made	over	the	last	few	years	to	expand	our	footprint	globally	 
is	very	clearly	paying	off	when	we	see	that	level	of	growth	rate,	all	 
of it delivered organically.
We	have	successfully	turned	our	fee	growth	into	profit	growth	too,	 
with	Group	operating	profit	increasing	by	33%
(1)(2)
.	We	have	achieved	
this	by	carefully	balancing	our	investment	across	the	business,	keeping	
firm	control	on	costs	and	raising	the	productivity	of	our	consultant	base	
worldwide.	At	the	same	time	we	have	further	grown	our	network,	
building	ever	greater	scale	in	existing	locations,	as	well	as	expanding	
into new cities and countries.
With	a	business	as	diverse	as	ours,	and	with	the	world	economies	at	 
this	early	stage	of	recovery,	it	is	to	be	expected	that	our	performance	
around	the	world	shows	some	variation.	We	saw	this	impact	this	year,	
with	the	International	business	growing	net	fees	by	31%
(1)
	–	an	excellent	
result	–	but	the	UK	remaining	broadly	flat	as	the	UK	Government’s	
austerity	drive	severely	impacted	recruitment	in	the	public	sector.	
Consequently	our	net	fees	in	the	UK	public	sector	fell	by	35%	and	the	
public	sector	now	represents	just	22%	of	the	UK’s	net	fees.	h owever,	
over	three-quarters	of	our	UK	business	is	now	in	the	private	sector	 
and	here	we	delivered	strong	net	fee	growth	of	19%	in	a	market	still	
characterised	by	fragile	client	and	candidate	confidence.	Clearly,	
however,	we	are	not	happy	with	the	overall	UK	operating	profit	of	£3.6	
million
(2)
.	We	have	already	taken	further	action	to	reduce	our	cost	base	
in line with market activity and are very focused on raising productivity 
in	a	market	that	remains	difficult	but	not	without	opportunity.	
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant currency.
(2)	 Before	exceptional	items. 14
Directors’ report | business review
chief executive’s strategic review	CONTINUED
hays in action: LEv ERAGING	OUR	GLOBAL	BUSINESS
“In	the	past	12	months	over	40%	of	the	candidates	 
I	have	placed	in	Singapore	have	been	sourced	
internationally.	We	have	to	search	further	afield	
because	the	required	specialist	skills	are	difficult	to	
find	locally.	h ays’	new	global	database	has	been	
instrumental	in	identifying	quality	candidates	across	
our international markets, and this is one of the 
factors that sets us apart from the competition.  
We	have	succeeded	in	finding	the	highest	quality	
candidates	possible	for	our	clients,	wherever	they	 
are	in	the	world.”
Jon	hampson 
Associate	Director 
hays	Singapore
Jon	hampson	has	been	working	in	our	fast-
growing	Singapore	office	for	just	over	a	year .	
his	team	focuses	on	finance	technology	
roles,	largely	into	the	banking	sector .	There	is	
considerable	demand	for	experienced	skills	
that	are	not	always	available	locally.	By	
utilising	hays’	global	database	and	network,	
he	is	able	to	access	candidates	from	a	global	
talent pool. 
over 40% of  
the CA ndid A tes  
i hAve PLAC ed in 
sing APore hA ve 
been sour Ced 
internA tionALL y
Jon	hampson,	hays	Singapore 15
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
Directors’ report | business review 
Driving	productivity	and	operational	effectiveness
Our	business	is	all	about	our	expert	consultants	helping	other	
professionals	find	the	next	role	in	their	career	or	the	resources	they	
need	for	their	own	business.	It	is	the	ultimate	people	business.	however,	
it	is	also	a	business	that	can	use	technology	to	great	effect	to	enhance	
customer	service	and	make	us	more	efficient	in	what	we	do.	We	have	
invested	in	our	core	technology	platforms	and,	having	substantially	
completed	our	systems	programmes,	we	are	now	focused	on	exploiting	
our technology to deliver returns on our investment. The power of our 
database	allows	our	consultants	to	very	quickly	identify	the	best	people	
for	our	clients’	vacancies	and	thereby	raise	their	productivity.	Our	new	
internet	and	mobile	platforms	provide	effective	channels	to	market,	
communicate	and	transact	with	our	clients	and	candidates.	Our	UK	
back-office	automation	programme	streamlines	and	automates	areas	
such	as	timesheets,	payment	and	billing	processes,	thereby	speeding	
up	our	administration,	reducing	costs,	delivering	better	service	to	our	
customers	and	above	all,	providing	us	for	the	first	time	with	a	fully	
scalable	system	that	can	handle	significantly	higher	volumes	of	work	
without significantly increasing costs.
Elsewhere,	we	have	continually	managed	our	cost	base	to	align	with	local	
market	demand.	In	most	of	our	International	operations	this	has	resulted	
in	investment	in	terms	of	increased	headcount	and	office	network	
capacity.	In	the	UK,	where	the	markets	have	been	more	challenging,	we	
have	further	reduced	costs,	trimming	our	employee	numbers,	closing	 
23	smaller	offices	over	the	year	and	restructuring	the	non-fee-earning	
team.	These	changes	were	completed	before	the	end	of	the	year	as	we	
saw	confidence	in	the	UK	market	soften	and	are	expected	to	yield	
around	£7	million	of	cost	savings	per	year	going	forward.
Attract,	develop	and	retain	the	best	people	in	the	industry
T o	be	the	best	in	our	industry,	we	need	to	bring	in	the	best	new	recruits	
locally,	deliver	to	them	the	very	best	training	available	and	give	them	
career opportunities second to none. Demand for our services can grow 
very	quickly	so	our	ability	to	find	and	induct	successful	new	consultants	
is a key aspect of our success. T o achieve this, we have invested in our 
consultant	attraction	programmes	and	this	has	been	instrumental	in	
successfully	increasing	our	International	consultant	headcount	by	nearly	
600	people	over	the	year	to	fuel	our	growth.	Our	employees	now	span	
69	different	nationalities	demonstrating	how	international	our	business	
truly is.
We	have	also	significantly	raised	our	investment	in	consultant	and	
management	training	and	development	programmes.	Our	‘hays	
Academies’	standardise	the	training	we	deliver	around	the	world	 
and	are	aimed	at	providing	the	Gold	Standard	of	consultant	training	
anywhere	in	our	industry.	Similarly,	we	have	introduced	advanced	
management	and	leadership	programmes	in	conjunction	with	some	 
of	the	world’s	leading	business	schools,	designed	to	equip	our	 
global	leaders	with	the	skills	to	run	ever	larger	and	more	complex	
businesses.	Over	150	of	our	senior	team	are	currently	going	through	
these programmes.
T raining and development is a fundamental part  
of	our	culture;	it	embeds	the	‘hays	DNA ’	in	every	
team	and	individual	across	the	globe.	We	spoke	to	
Alexander	heise,	Business	Director	in	Germany,	to	
discover	how	he	had	benefitted	from	attending	our	
international leadership programme. 
“I	recently	attended	our	international	leadership	programme,	
a	course	put	in	place	for	our	senior	business	leaders.	This	
course	was	specifically	targeted	at	broadening	the	range	of	
skills	needed	to	lead	and	manage	our	fast-growing	business.	
Networking	with	my	fellow	business	leaders	from	across	the	
Group,	we	openly	discussed	the	opportunities	in	our	markets	
and	shared	ideas	on	how	to	best	capitalise	on	them.”
Alexander	heise 
Business Director 
hays	Germany	
hays in action:  
DEv ELOPING	BUSINESS	LEADERS
i hA ve deve Lo Ped 
the s KiLLs to 
LeAd And 
mAnAge our 
f Ast-growing 
business
Alexander	h eise,	hays	Germany	 16
Directors’ report | business review
chief executive’s strategic review CONTINUED
PURE	PLA y	SPECIALIST	
RECRUITMENT
£672m net fees / 255 offices
MARKET-LEADING	POSITIONS
t op 3 in our core markets
	 ATTRACTIv E	MARKETS	
WORLDWIDE
strong long-term growth drivers
BUSINESS	MODEL	REPLICATES
self-funding growth / low expansion risk
BALANCED	PORTFOLIO
31 countries / 20 specialisms / temp and perm
STRONG	COST	CONTROL
m arket-leading conversion rate % / flexible cost base
ST A TE-OF-Th E-ART	TECh NOLOGy
m arket-leading it systems
PROv EN	MANAGEMENT
underpinned by ‘hays dna ’
hIGhL y	CASh	GENERATIv E
l ow capital intensity / surplus cash returned
programmes,	how	we	build	relationships	with	our	customers	or	how	we	
provide	expert	insights	into	the	professional	employment	marketplace.	
We	have	made	significant	progress	on	this	front	over	the	year	and	two	
excellent	new	examples	of	how	we	bring	this	value	to	the	world	we	live	
in	are	the	hays	Journal	and	our	report	on	‘Creating	Jobs	in	a	Global	
Economy’,	published	in	conjunction	with	Oxford	Economics.	The	hays	
Journal	is	designed	to	bring	real	and	practical	insight	to	our	clients	 
and	candidates	about	the	issues	we	know	they	face	in	the	world	of	
professional	work	and	the	feedback	we	have	received	from	all	around	
the	world	on	our	first	publication	has	been	enormously	encouraging.	
Similarly,	the	‘Creating	Jobs	in	a	Global	Economy’	report	highlights	the	
profound	changes	we	are	likely	to	see	in	global	workforce	populations	
within our own lifetimes, together with an approach on how society and 
business	may	address	these	challenges.	Both	of	these	publications	can	
be	found	at	haysplc.com.
Finally,	as	a	global	business	with	the	largest	consultant	base	in	our	
industry in the world, we have taken the opportunity to move significant 
numbers	of	our	people	internationally	into	new	markets	to	enable	us	 
to	grow	quickly	and	securely.	Over	100	of	our	employees	have	moved	
around	the	world,	for	example	from	Australia	to	China	and	Japan,	from	
Japan	to	the	US,	from	France	and	Portugal	to	Mexico	and	from	the	UK	
to	many	of	our	markets.	Not	only	does	this	provide	our	people	with	
unprecedented	career	opportunities	but	importantly	it	transfers	skills,	
knowledge	and	experience,	our	‘hays	DNA’,	around	the	Group	making	
us	a	stronger	and	more	integrated	business	and	creating	a	broader	
platform for growth in the future.
Leveraging	our	brand
Building	the	leading	business	in	our	industry	means	building	the	leading	
brand	too.	Our	brand	as	the	‘Experts	in	Professional	Recruitment’	sits	at	
the	heart	of	everything	we	do,	whether	it	be	the	design	of	our	training	
key characteristics that will drive h a ys’ long-term growth 17
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
Directors’ report | business review 
priorities for 2012
Our	ambitions	remain	unchanged	and	our	priorities	for	2012	emphasise	
this.	Our	task	is	to	balance	the	long-term	development	of	a	business	at	
the forefront of opening up our industry in multiple markets around  
the world, with the shorter-term need to continually improve our 
effectiveness	in	all	our	markets	and	deliver	good	financial	returns.	 
This	translates	into	the	following	areas	for	2012:
Driving UK performance
The	UK	market	remains	difficult.	After	significant	declines	over	the	last 	
18	months,	we	expect	the	UK	public	sector	to	broadly	stabilise	but	do	
not	expect	any	material	recovery	in	the	short	term.	The	private	sector	
recovery witnessed during 2011 progressively softened over the year, 
causing	us	to	take	early	action	on	the	cost	base	to	defend	profitability.	
We	will	continue	to	react	as	necessary	according	to	how	we	see	current	
demand,	as	we	did	towards	the	end	of	the	year.	however,	despite	the	
market conditions, we see opportunities to strengthen our market 
position in each of our locations across the country and raise individual 
consultant productivity. Delivering profit growth in the UK is our  
key	objective.
Continued	international	growth	and	diversification
We	had	a	very	successful	2011	in	our	International	divisions	and	we	
intend	to	use	2012	to	drive	further	growth	by	structurally	developing	
markets	all	around	the	world.	We	are	now	in	31	countries,	having	
recently	opened	our	first	office	in	Colombia	and	expect	to	open	new 	
businesses	in	Chile	and	Malaysia	in	the	year.	We	also	intend	to	open	
several	offices	in	existing	countries	and	rapidly	build	scale	by	recruiting	
additional consultants in virtually every international market within 
which we operate.
We	have	a	tried	and	tested	organic	growth	model	with	an	excellent	track	
record	of	success	at	developing	our	International	business	and	I	fully	
expect	2012	to	be	another	year	of	significant	investment	and expansion.
Investment	in	people
The	biggest	single	restraint	on	growth	in	the	majority	of	our	markets	 
is	people:	having	enough	highly	skilled,	trained	and	experienced	
consultants	and	leaders	to	drive	the	business	forward	and	satisfy	
market	demand.	This	is	why	we	have	been	steadfast	in	our	commitment	
to developing our people, from grass-roots level through to our senior 
management	and	business	leaders.	Next	year	I	expect	to	bring	a	
substantial	number	of	new	employees	into	the	business	across	a	range	
of	fee-earning	and	non-fee-earning	roles.	Our	investment	in	our	leaders	
gives	me	the	confidence	they	are	well	equipped	to	manage	these	
rapidly	growing	workforces	and	the	high	levels	of	international	mobility	
we	enjoy	across	the	Group	allows	us	to	move	skilled	and	experienced	
operators to the most attractive opportunities. This is increasingly a 
multinationality,	globally	integrated	team	sharing	the	same	hays	DNA	
worldwide	and,	combined	with	strong	local	teams	in	each	operation,	
gives	us	real	competitive	advantage.	Ensuring	that	we	continue	to	
identify,	train	and	develop	the	very	best	people	in	the	industry	
continues	to	be	at	the	very	heart	of	what	we	do.
Delivering	exceptional	customer	service
As	a	leading	professional	recruitment	business	we	advise	our	
candidates	and	clients	through	one	of	their	most	difficult	decision-
making processes, and we help ensure these decisions are the right 
ones.	We	call	this	‘Powering	the	World	of	Work’.	Our	key	differentiator	
therefore	is	the	expert	service	and	advice	we	deliver,	aiming	to	earn	the	
respect and loyalty of our clients and candidates as their trusted adviser, 
based	on	the	quality	of	the	work	we	deliver	to	them	and	the	way	we	
deliver	it.	Continually	measuring	this	performance,	acting	on	their	
feedback	and	raising	our	own	hurdles	on	service	levels	will	keep	us	
ahead	of	our	competition.	This	process	never	stops	and	will	always	be	
there as a key priority.
summary
2011	was	a	year	of	significant	progress,	both	financially	and	strategically.	
Many	of	our	businesses	rebounded	to	levels	above	their	previous	peak	
performance	and	our	platform	around	the	world	is	bigger	and	better	
than	ever	before.	Not	only	does	this	footprint	give	us	a	broader	base	
from	which	to	grow,	but	it	is	also	a	base	that	gives	us	real	advantage	as	
a	multinational,	integrated	and	joined-up	business	worldwide,	servicing	
our	clients	and	candidates	locally	and	globally.
We	ended	last	year	with	good	levels	of	momentum	across	a	great	many	
of	our	markets.	Clearly	a	number	of	macroeconomic	uncertainties	
remain around the world and since the year end we saw these 
uncertainties	manifest	in	significant	volatility	in	the	world’s	stock	
markets.	It	would	be	premature	at	this	stage	to	determine	how	these	
uncertainties	may	impact	on	our	own	business	but	understandably	 
we	monitor	and	assess	the	situation	in	each	of	our	markets	daily.	In	an	
industry	with	such	limited	visibility	as	ours,	our	task	is	to	build	a	business	
that	is	highly	flexible	and	ensure	we	act	quickly	and	decisively	to	all	
changes	in	our	markets,	both	positive	and	negative.	We	have	a	great	
track	record	of	delivering	this	over	the	last	40	years	and	will	continue	to	
do	so.	Most	importantly	though,	our	business	faces	the	best	long-term	
structural growth opportunities in new markets around the world that 
I have	ever	seen	and	while	businesses	need	people	and	people	need	
jobs,	we	have	a	very	bright	future	and	intend	to	capitalise	fully	on	that.
alistair c ox 
Chief	Executive
