 12
Directors’ report | business review
chairman’s statement
rebuilding group 
profitability
a lan t Homson ChA irmAn
Paul	harrison,	our	current	Audit	Committee	Chairman,	will	replace	
Lesley	as	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee	and	Senior	
Independent	Director	following	the	AGM.
I	am	pleased	to	welcome	v ictoria	Jarman	to	the	Board	as	a	non-
executive	director	from	1	October	2011	and	as	Chairman	of	the	Audit	
Committee	following	the	AGM.	v ictoria,	who	is	a	Chartered	Accountant,	
was	previously	Chief	Operating	Officer	of	Lazard’s	London	and	Middle	
East	operations.	v ictoria	is	a	non-executive	director	of	De	La	Rue	plc	
and	a	member	of	its	audit	and	nomination	committees.	
people
I	am	proud	to	report	that	this	year	we	have	recruited	a	significant	
number	of	new	professionals	into	the	business,	across	a	variety	of	roles,	
and	we	continue	to	invest	going	forward.	This	is	an	exciting	time	in	the	
Group’s	development	and	I	am	confident	that	the	high	level	of	
professionalism	and	enterprise	within	each	business,	together	with	the	
long-term	opportunities	that	we	offer,	will	provide	each	individual	with	 
a	strong	environment	within	which	to	develop	and	build	their	careers.	
I	would	also	like	to	thank	all	of	our	people	for	their	hard	work	and	
commitment	through	the	year.	Since	joining	hays	I	have	spent	
considerable	time	getting	to	know	many	people	from	around	the	
business.	I	have	been	impressed	by	the	ingenuity,	enterprise,	
commitment	and	effort	shown	by	all	our	staff.	
c orporate responsibility
Our	approach	to	corporate	responsibility	covers	a	broad	range	of	
philosophies,	activities	and	standards.	Again	this	year	we	have,	as	an	
organisation, undertaken numerous events to raise money for charity. 
For	example,	a	group	of	13	hays	employees	climbed	Kilimanjaro	in	April,	
contributing	to	the	£250,000	raised	in	support	of	our	nominated	UK	
charity,	Action	for	Children.	Our	Asia	Pacific	division	organised	a	
fundraising	day	for	the	Queensland	Flood	Appeal,	raising	a	total	of	
£40,000	for	the	cause.	These	represent	just	two	of	many	events	which	
took	place	during	the	year,	but	which	characterise	and	pay	testament	 
to	the	generosity	and	spirit	that	exists	within	the	organisation.
summary
The	Group	has	made	significant	progress	in	2011	and	has	balanced	the	
need	to	rebuild	profitability	with	the	investment	necessary	to	build	a	
business	with	excellent	long-term	prospects.	however,	professional	
recruitment is a cyclical industry, which is highly sensitive to underlying 
macroeconomic	conditions	and	levels	of	business	and	consumer	
confidence.	This	was	clearly	demonstrated	in	2009	and	2010	by	the	
impact	that	the	global	recession	had	on	our	business.	Whilst	trading	
continues	to	be	positive	across	most	of	the	countries	in	which	operate,	
we remain alert to the economic and political uncertainties currently 
facing	many	of	the	world’s	major	nations,	and	to	any	adverse	impact	
this	may	have	on	our	business	going	forward.
a lan t homson 
Chairman
2011	has	been	a	year	of	recovery	and	
strong positive organic growth for the 
Group,	following	two	years	in	which	
difficult	economic	conditions	adversely	
impacted our performance.
Group	net	fees	increased	by	18%
(1)
 as we capitalised on improving 
market	conditions	across	most	of	our	operations.	We	have	also	focused	
on	rebuilding	the	Group’s	profitability	and	I	am	pleased	to	report	that	in	
2011	we	delivered	operating	profit	growth	of	33%
(1)(2)
, earnings per share 
growth	of	60%
(2)
	and	a	good	cash	flow	performance.	We	have,	
however,	continued	to	carefully	balance	rebuilding	the	Group’s	
profitability	with	making	the	investment	necessary	to	ensure	we	
capture the long-term opportunities for growth. 
Since	joining	hays	as	Chairman	in	November	2010	I	have	been	greatly	
impressed	by	the	management	team’s	unwavering	commitment	to	
building	a	business	capable	of	delivering	long-term	growth	and	
rewarding	shareholders	appropriately.	We	have	an	excellent	track	record	
and	have	now	built	a	broad	platform	across	31	countries	from	which	 
we	intend	to	capitalise	on	the	excellent	structural	growth	opportunities	
across	our	markets.	We	have	also	undertaken	substantial	investment	in	
our technology systems, people training and development programme, 
and	brand	identity.	These	investments	lay	the	foundations	necessary	to	
support long-term growth.
dividend
The	Board’s	current	priorities	for	our	free	cash	flow	are	to	fund	Group	
development,	maintain	the	strength	of	the	balance	sheet	and	support	 
a	sustainable	dividend	policy.	After	taking	account	of	the	improvement	
in	trading	during	the	financial	year,	the	Board’s	current	view	on	trading	
and	the	strength	of	the	Group’s	balance	sheet,	the	Board	proposes	to	
maintain	the	final	dividend	at	last	year’s	level	of	3.95	pence	per	share,	
giving	an	unchanged	full	year	dividend	of	5.80	pence	per	share.
governance
Bob	Lawson	retired	as	Chairman	earlier	this	year	after	12	years	on	the	
Board,	including	nine	as	Chairman.	During	this	time	he	oversaw	the	
restructuring	of	the	Group	and	its	emergence	as	a	focused	and	leading	
professional	recruitment	company.	his	wise	counsel	and	determination	
to	drive	the	Group	forward	will	be	a	hard	act	to	follow.
As	announced	in	May,	Lesley	Knox	will	step	down	from	the	Board	
following	the	2011	Annual	General	Meeting	in	November.	Lesley	has	been	
a tower of strength on the Board for the past nine years, latterly as 
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee	and	Senior	Independent	
Director.	h er	incisive	insight	and	contribution	to	strategic	and	operational	
debate	has	been	crucial	to	the	repositioning	of	the	Group.
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth for continuing  
activities at constant currency.
(2)	 Before	exceptional	items.
