 Hays PLC Annu Al Repo Rt & Fin Anci Al St Atement S 2012 04
cha Irman’s statE mEnt 
balanc Ing prof Itab Il Ity In today ’s 
complE x world w Ith Inv Estm Ent 
to d El IvEr our long -t Erm goals
This year the Group has 
delivered good organic fee and 
profit growth in the context of 
an increasingly uncertain 
economic environment. 
Group net fees increased by 8%
(1)
 in 2012  
as we benefited from the diversity of the 
Group’s operations both by geography and 
specialism. Management focus throughout 
the year has been on defending the Group’s 
financial performance in more challenging 
markets, whilst selectively investing for 
growth in more buoyant areas. As a result, 
the Group delivered good growth in 
underlying operating profits of 9%
(1)(2)
, whilst 
earnings per share increased by 5%
(3)
 and 
our cash flow performance was excellent.
dIv IdEnd
Increased global economic uncertainty 
slowed the pace of the Group’s profit growth 
as the first half progressed and as a result 
first half operating profit was only 2% 
sequentially higher than the previous half. 
Considering this, and the Board’s view at  
that time regarding likely growth in Group 
profitability in the second half of the year, we 
decided that, whilst the dividend remained 
affordable, it was no longer appropriate to 
maintain it at its previous level, which had 
been uncovered by earnings for two years. 
We therefore took the very difficult decision  
in February to reduce the interim dividend 
and we propose to pay a final dividend of  
1.67 pence, which is in line with our one-
third/two-thirds split, and results in a full 
year dividend of 2.5 pence, down 57% on  
the previous level. 
The Board fully understands the importance 
to shareholders of paying a sustainable and 
progressive dividend. We believe that future 
dividends should be covered by earnings in 
the range 2.0x – 3.0x
(3)
 and we are committed 
to growing the dividend when cover sustainably 
reaches 2.5x
(3)
.
govE rnanc E and board
As Chairman, one of my primary 
responsibilities is to ensure that the Group 
operates to the highest standards in all 
aspects of governance and risk management. 
We are making good progress in broadening 
our corporate responsibility programme. 
When I joined Hays in late 2010, it was clear 
to me that the Group takes all of these 
aspects very seriously and this remains the 
case. Transparency is central to this, and  
you will find more detail about our approach 
and progress over the last year in the 
governance section starting on page 34, 
and in our separately published Corporate 
Responsibility Report. 
I was delighted to welcome Pippa Wicks  
to the Board as a non-executive director on  
1 January 2012. Pippa is a member of the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees and is currently Managing 
Director at AlixPartners. She brings with her a 
wealth of experience and, along with Victoria 
Jarman who joined our Board in October 2011 
and who I introduced in last year’s Annual 
Report, has had an immediate positive impact. 
At this year’s Annual General Meeting, Paul 
Stoneham will be retiring as a non-executive 
director having served on the Board for 
eight years. I would like to thank Paul for his 
commitment and contribution in that time.
It is critical that the make-up of the Board 
reflects not only the shape of our business 
today, but also evolves to reflect what is  
a fast-paced, structural growth industry. 
Whether that is in terms of responding  
to the development of new media and 
technology, understanding the changing 
needs of our clients or reflecting the rapid 
internationalisation of the business, my focus 
is on ensuring that the make-up of the Board 
appropriately reflects the way the Group is 
developing, and is fully aligned to the focus 
and goals of our executive management team.
pEopl E
Over the last year I have continued to  
travel and meet our people around the 
Group. What strikes me above all is their 
professionalism and their focus on solving 
the challenges of our clients and candidates 
around the world. Our people are undoubtedly 
our key asset and over the past year we have 
continued to welcome new experts into the 
Group, as well as opening new Hays businesses 
in Chile, Colombia and Malaysia – our 33rd 
country. I am convinced that the long-term 
opportunities for growth we offer, as well  
as the unrivalled support and development 
opportunities available, mean that our 
people will continue to find Hays a place 
where they can forge exciting and rewarding 
careers. I would like to personally thank them 
all for their hard work and commitment 
throughout the year.
summary
We have continued to make significant 
progress in 2012. The fast-changing 
economic backdrop we have faced has 
meant that we have had to become more 
selective about areas of investment to 
ensure that we maximise opportunities  
for growth whilst defending the financial 
performance of the Group. For as long as the 
economic outlook remains uncertain, we will 
continue with this approach. Longer term, 
the structural growth opportunities for our 
industry remain undiminished and the Board 
will continue to focus on ensuring that the 
Group takes full advantage of them.
a lan t homson 
Chairman
alan thomson Chairman
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth  
of continuing activities at constant currency, before 
exceptional items.
(2) 2011 figure is before exceptional credit of £4.1 million.
(3)  Earnings per share, from continuing operations only,  
before exceptional items.
furth Er I nformat Ion
For more detail go to our Corporate 
Governance r eport
P.34
For more detail on our approach to 
corporate responsibility visit  
hays.com/corporate-responsibility
