 Hays PLC Annu Al Repo Rt & Fin Anci Al St Atement S 2012 14
For more detail about our progress in 2012 
see our Key Performance indicators
P.20
ch IEf E xEcut IvE’s stratE gIc r EvIEw
our strat EgIc and op Erat Ional  
focus
Specialist recruitment is an industry that offers significant 
long-term structural growth opportunities as client organisations 
across the world increasingly turn to experts such as Hays to 
help them source the very best talent. In the short term however, 
recruitment is geared to the economic cycle and we must ensure 
that our day-to-day operational focus is responsive and quick to 
adapt to changes in each market as and when they occur.
Capitalising on this long-term opportunity and building Hays to 
be the global leader in specialist recruitment is the cornerstone 
of our strategy. Managing our short-term actions to maximise 
Group profitability whilst ensuring we invest appropriately to 
build the long-term global platform are the key management 
challenges in our business. 
Introduct Ion : comb In Ing a clE ar stratE gIc dIr Ect Ion w Ith n ImblE 
op Erat Ional focus
The world we operate in today is increasingly complex, so this year we have changed the 
way we present our Group strategy in order to better illustrate the way we think about and 
manage our business against this backdrop. On the page opposite, we have outlined our 
aims as a Group, as well as the two levels on which we manage the business. Our four 
Strategic Pillars underpin everything we do in order to deliver on these long-term aims. 
Additionally, our areas of Operational Focus describe how we manage the business on  
a day-to-day basis in response to the prevailing and fast-changing environment. 
In an industry, which has clear structural growth opportunities but is also characterised  
by cyclicality, this twin-track approach is critical to achieving our long-term aims, whilst 
maximising the short-term performance of the Group.
our four strat EgIc p Illars
Our four Strategic Pillars underpin the way we manage and grow the Group over the long 
term. They remain unchanged regardless of the stage of the economic cycle, and they are 
designed to ensure we are never distracted from our core strategic aim of building the 
world’s pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
We assess our progress against these Strategic Pillars in our Key Performance Indicators, 
which you will find on pages 20 and 21. Additionally, I give my own view on our progress  
over the last 12 months and discuss our focus in 2013 on pages 16 to 19.
our op Erat Ional focus
Overlaying these Strategic Pillars are our areas of short-term Operational Focus. We need  
to be nimble and responsive to the market context in which we find ourselves, so our actions 
reflect today’s complex, multi-speed and overall more challenging market conditions. 
These areas of Operational Focus represent the immediate ‘to-do’ list for the Group’s 
executive team as we manage the business. In a cyclical industry such as specialist 
recruitment, notwithstanding the longer-term structural growth opportunities which exist, 
it is critical that we can quickly shift our emphasis between investment and cost control as 
market conditions change, in order to maximise fees and profits in the short term.
Throughout the next few pages, my strategic review includes brief case studies and updates 
on how we are approaching each of these areas of Operational Focus. Additionally, you can 
find operating reviews of each of our divisions starting on page 24.
2002
9
2012
20
dIv Ers If Icat Ion of sp Ec Ial Isms
al Ista Ir cox C h iEF Ex ECUTiVE
h Istor Ic nE t f EEs by d Iv Is Ion (%)
49
58
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
44
36
31
22
22
20 29 30 33 36
26
31
33
  C o n ti n e n t al Eur o p e  
& r est of World
 a sia Pacific
 UK & ireland 15 directors’ report business review fully cap Ital Is E on all opportun It IEs 
Exploit buoyant markets • Further build scale and diversity •  
Fully capitalise on long-term structural opportunities
bu Ild th E world’s prE -EmIn Ent sp Ec Ial Ist rE cru Itm Ent bus In Ess
dEl Iv Er w Ell-d Iv Ers If IEd and prof Itabl E f EE growth
dEf End and max ImIs E fI nanc Ial p Erformanc E 
Focus on UK profits • Targeted, selective investment •  
Focus on consultant productivity
r Espond to and b Est s Erv E Ex Ist Ing and Evolv Ing cl IEnt d Emands
Local network and expertise • Efficient corporate accounts offering • 
Evolving product offering 
r Ecru Itm Ent, tra In Ing and lE ad Ersh Ip dEv Elopm Ent
Performance-driven remuneration • Active local management •  
Best-in-class training and development
cont Inu E to r Es Earch and r Espond to n Ew m EdIa 
Position the Group to capitalise on all opportunities •  
Anticipate and understand potential threats • Build partnerships
1
on E hays around  
th E world
2
growth ta Ilor Ed to 
markEt opportunI t IEs
• Single global brand
•  Globally consistent 
customer service
• Global thought leadership
•  Build global scale
•  Diversify specialisms in 
existing countries
•  Selected new country 
openings
•  Respond to evolving 
client needs
•  Find new ways of 
addressing our markets
•  Recruit, engage and retain 
the best people
•  Provide industry-leading 
training
•  Provide global career 
opportunities and mobility
•  Maximise consultant 
productivity
•  Leverage best-in-class 
technology platform
•  Drive efficiencies through 
automated back-office 
systems
•  Integrate with developing 
social media channels
3
bEst p Eopl E In 
th E Industry
4 
Eff Ic IEncy and 
op Erat Ional 
EffE ct IvEn Ess
our four  
stratE gIc p Illars
our op Erat Ional  
focus
our a Ims
Find our Oil & Gas roll-out 
case study
Find our regional  
Operating r eviews
Find more detail on our  
3 Story Software product
Find more detail on our 
corporate accounts business
Find more detail on our 
approach to hiring and  
developing the best people
Find more detail on our 
approach to new media
P.17
P.24
P.18 P.18
P.16
P.19 Hays PLC Annu Al Repo Rt & Fin Anci Al St Atement S 2012 16
c hIEf E xEcut IvE ’s strat EgIc r EvIEw CO nTin UED
Selective investment to capitalise on growth areas combined 
with strong cost control and a focus on productivity has 
delivered a strong performance.
Introduct Ion to our p Erformanc E In 2012
Throughout 2012 we focused on ensuring that the Group was quick to respond to changes in 
market conditions as and when they occurred around the world. Our priorities were to drive 
fee growth where opportunities existed and defend our profit performance in those parts of 
the business which faced more challenging conditions. 
This approach manifested itself in four main ways:
•	 Ensuring we are positioned to take full advantage of structural growth opportunities  
by continuing to build our presence in regions such as Latin America, Japan and Germany; 
•	 Continuing our strategy of international diversification by launching in new countries (we 
opened in Chile, Colombia and Malaysia in 2012), and launching core Hays specialisms in 
existing countries;
•	 Investing selectively to capitalise on opportunities for growth in more buoyant markets, 
such as Western Australia, Germany and Canada; and
•	 Reducing costs, maximising fee opportunities and optimising consultant productivity in 
more challenging markets.
As a result, I am pleased that we have delivered good turnover, net fee and operating profit 
growth. In the second half of the year, we improved profitability sequentially and versus prior 
year, despite the fact that net fees were lower than in the first half. This result is testament to 
our focus on cost control and our multifaceted approach to managing the business in what 
became overall more challenging and increasingly complex markets.
Our International business grew net fees by 16%
(1)
, and 17 countries delivered growth of 10%
(1)
 
or more. Given the more uncertain macroeconomic environment, particularly in the second 
half of our year, this is clear evidence of the structural growth characteristics of markets such 
as Germany, Brazil and Japan. In addition, it illustrates the expertise of our teams around the 
world, their ability to respond to challenges and fully capitalise on opportunities in their 
specific markets.
Over the last few years, we have very deliberately expanded our global footprint and the 
diversity of our sectoral offering and this has delivered clear benefits in 2012. As the most 
sectorally diversified business in our industry, combined with our global scale and balanced 
exposure to both mature markets and areas of structural growth, we have built a clear 
competitive advantage in an industry which is undeniably impacted by the macroeconomic 
cycle. Whilst some markets that are core to our Group have been challenging throughout  
the year, the fact that we have long-established, market-leading businesses in more buoyant 
areas such as Resources & Mining, Engineering, Life Sciences and IT has been central to 
delivering a good set of results in 2012.
progr Ess aga Inst our obj Ect Iv Es I n 2012
Our long-term aim is to be the world’s pre-eminent specialist recruitment business. On 
pages 14 and 15 I outline the Strategic Pillars which underpin the work we do to achieve that 
aim, as well as the areas of Operational Focus we have as we manage the business to deliver 
sustainable, profitable growth. Last year I similarly outlined our priorities for 2012 and it is 
important to revisit them and assess our progress over the last year.
o pErat Ional focus 
rE cru Itm Ent, tra In Ing and 
l Ead Ersh Ip dEv Elopm Ent
A key pillar of our strategy is 
our commitment to recruit, 
engage and retain the best 
people in the industry.
We have enhanced our recruitment 
processes by launching our new careers 
website, which has had over 400,000 
visits to date. Over 40,000 people in  
190 countries have taken part in the 
award-winning Hays Challenge, our 
purpose-built interactive recruitment tool. 
Visit our careers website and play  
the hays Challenge at hays-careers.com
We encourage our consultants to develop 
as experts through structured on-the-job 
experience, coaching, mentoring, e-learning 
and dedicated training programmes. We 
have also been instrumental in developing 
a new industry award that recognises the 
quality of the consulting skills shown by 
our more experienced consultants. The 
calibre of our management teams is  
critical to our success. Our future leaders 
complete our industry-leading Advanced 
Management Programme and 50 of our 
most senior leaders have completed the 
‘Fast Forward’ global executive 
development programme.
Fore more detail, go to our  
Employees section
P.51
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency, before  
exceptional items. 17 directors’ report business review driving uk performance
The UK market became increasingly challenging as the year progressed. The private sector 
(which represents around 75% of our UK net fees) saw conditions become progressively 
more difficult, notably in the Banking and City-related specialisms. Confidence amongst our 
clients and candidates has been reduced by heightened concern about the global economy, 
particularly in the second half of the year, as the UK entered a double-dip recession. After 
falling 60% from peak levels, the UK public sector has remained broadly stable through 2012 
and, in the fourth quarter, we delivered net fee growth of 6%
(1)
. Public-sector activity remains 
at low levels, however, and is mainly driven by more senior permanent roles. We do not 
expect material growth in this business in the short term, but longer term we do expect the 
UK public sector to again become a significant addressable market for the Group. 
In this difficult context, we have taken the actions necessary to best defend the bottom line 
of the UK business. We have implemented initiatives to generate cost savings in our UK 
back-office of around £15 million and, given our view on the outlook for the UK, we will 
continue to take action on costs where required. Importantly, we will continue to capitalise 
on all fee opportunities available. With this in mind, I appointed Nigel Heap as the Managing 
Director of our UK & Ireland business in May. Nigel has been with Hays for over 24 years, 
spending the last 15 years in Australia building that business into the success it is today and 
running our Asia Pacific region. In his new role, Nigel will focus on driving fee and profit 
growth through the UK business. 
c ontinued international growth and diversification
The performance of our International business in 2012 has again been excellent. The 
well-balanced, diversified business model we have built across our Asia Pacific and 
Continental Europe & Rest of World divisions over the last few years is critical to this  
and the Group now generates around 70% of net fees from the International business,  
up from 15% just 10 years ago. 
Our strategy for growing the International business is multifaceted. We are primarily focused 
on developing the businesses we have in existing markets whether that is by new office 
openings – we opened new offices in Belgium, Germany and China – or launching new 
specialisms into existing countries. This not only increases the diversification of our revenues 
but, more critically, it fundamentally underpins the service we offer our clients and candidates. 
A good example of this is the roll-out of our market-leading Oil & Gas specialism into the 
USA and Denmark.
In addition to this focus on diversification, we continued to expand our footprint throughout 
2012 and now operate in 33 countries, having opened Hays businesses in Chile, Colombia 
and Malaysia.
delivering exceptional customer service
Delivering world-class service ultimately boils down to our ability to understand and solve the 
challenges faced by our clients and candidates around the world every day. As a leading specialist 
recruitment business, we advise people through one of the most important and often most 
difficult decisions they ever make: changing jobs, or hiring the right person for their business. 
In doing this, our key differentiator is the quality of our consultants and their ability to act as 
trusted advisers. It is also about the quality of the systems and processes we have in place to 
allow them to most effectively meet the demands of our clients, and ensure an excellent and 
professional experience for our candidates. 
Not only are our new IT systems driving our consultants’ ability to service the needs of the 
market, they are also highly adaptable to the advances we see every day in how people use 
technology in their daily lives. As the world moves more towards mobile platforms for example, 
our IT systems allow contractors to submit their timesheets or search for their next assignment 
via their smartphones. Similarly, as communities of professionals develop on various social media 
networks, our IT systems enable us to effectively utilise sites such as LinkedIn, Facebook and 
o pErat Ional focus 
oI l & gas roll-out
Oil & Gas is an industry that 
is truly global by nature,  
with over 40%
(2)
 of workers 
now based outside their  
own country. 
Last year at Hays we sourced candidates for 
the global Oil & Gas industry across a broad 
range of skilled and technical disciplines. 
To meet this growing global demand,  
we have opened our second US office  
in Houston, Texas. This office will initially 
focus on our global Oil & Gas offering,  
and will be headed by our North American 
President, John Faraguna. Houston is the 
base for many clients with whom we 
already have established relationships in 
Europe, the Middle East, Asia and South 
America and represents the logical next 
strategic step as we continue to roll-out 
and develop this key specialism.
Hays Oil & Gas operates from 13 of our 
countries worldwide, and has also been 
launched this year in Denmark which will 
act as our base for Northern Europe. We 
will continue the strategic roll-out of this 
key global specialism.
(2)  The Oil & Gas Global Salary Guide 2012, produced 
by Hays Oil & Gas and Oil & Gas Job Search.
Visit our Oil & Gas website at 
hays-careers.com/oil-and-gas Hays PLC Annu Al Repo Rt & Fin Anci Al St Atement S 2012 18
c hIEf E xEcut IvE ’s strat EgIc r EvIEw CO nTin UED
Twitter as new channels to find the experts that our clients need. Having completed a major 
investment programme in our technology platforms, we are now uniquely positioned in our 
industry to take advantage of these changes in how people communicate and build relationships.
We must recognise that the world of recruitment continues to evolve as clients’ demands 
change and candidates’ channels to find their next role develop. To remain a leader in the 
industry it is vital that we remain at the forefront of product and service innovation, to ensure 
that we can deliver effectively both now and in the future to each of our chosen market 
segments. There is no one-size-fits-all for recruitment in today’s world. The needs of our 
large corporate clients differ significantly from those of our smaller clients for example,  
so we need solutions tailored to each. Over the year, we have continued to invest in these 
tailored services. Our acquisition of 3 Story Software, a contingent workforce management 
system, and its subsequent integration into our own Managed Service business, is just one 
such example of investing to address specific client needs. This integrated solution allows us 
to manage our clients’ temporary worker labour forces and illustrates how we are developing 
our spectrum of services to truly power the world of work, whoever are our clients. 
Investment in people
We are the ultimate people business. To fulfil our long-term aims we need to hire the very 
best people, provide them with the industry’s best training, give them excellent career 
development opportunities and reward and motivate them effectively and appropriately. 
Each of these aspects is fundamental to our success in creating experts throughout Hays 
who are the very best in the world at servicing our clients’ and candidates’ needs.
I am pleased that we have made further demonstrable progress in each area. For example,  
we have launched our own interactive recruitment tool, the Hays Challenge, to better source 
potential new consultants. Within a year, over 40,000 potential recruits from 190 countries 
have taken the Hays Challenge online, many of them going on to apply for a role in our 
o pErat Ional focus 
vE ndor manag EmEnt
The ability to respond to and 
best serve all client demands 
is critical to our success. 
Computacenter face the complex 
challenge of efficiently managing their 
workforce of skilled technicians, generally 
contracted on assignments across 
approximately one hundred clients.
Not only did they have to manage the 
complicated workflows, but they needed 
to implement a system which could 
provide accurate operational and financial 
tracking for each assignment.
Hays worked with Computacenter to 
implement our cloud based vendor 
management system, 3 Story Software, 
which enables organisations to effectively 
manage their contingent workforce and 
supply chain, allowing hiring managers, 
suppliers and employees to collaborate 
online through a single portal.
This integrated system provided an 
enhanced level of control over the entire 
process, including real-time management 
information. Efficiency benefits were 
recognised immediately: job fill rates were 
improved to over 99% and time-to-hire 
was significantly reduced.
Find out more at  
3storysoftware.com
Large, complex organisations 
that require high volumes  
of skilled employees are 
incr eas ingly seeking t o f ormalise 
the way they source those 
people. 
Employers are looking for more consistency, 
price discipline and control in the way they 
manage the recruitment of skilled people. 
The structure of these arrangements ranges 
from the implementation of simple Preferred 
Supplier Lists (PSL), to formal contracts 
with the management of the recruitment 
process outsourced to a single supplier  
(or ‘Master Vendor’). These contractual 
arrangements are known as Recruitment 
Process Outsourcing (RPO) for permanent 
hires or Managed Service Provision (MSP) 
for contractors or temporary workers.
We have responded to these changing 
client needs by building a business to 
hays c orporat E accounts
provide this range of services. We call this 
Hays Corporate Accounts and it contributes 
5% of our Group net fees.
In our view the key to delivering this 
alternative model is to be as operationally 
effective as possible, with well-integrated 
processes, dedicated teams and a robust 
Vendor Management System software 
platform, which gives the client control 
along with access to high-quality, real-time 
management information.
5
15
5% 
of group 
15% 
of uk 
n et fees 
generated by 
h ays Corporate 
a ccounts  19 directors’ report business review business. Similarly we have invested further in our ‘Hays Academies’, which provide a 
standardised training programme for all of our joiners right through their consultant career.  
To equip our leaders to deal with today’s complex world, we have enrolled 150 of our senior 
managers in our advanced management and leadership programmes. With each of these 
initiatives, I believe we are investing wisely in our people to make them the best in the industry.
pr Ior It IEs and focus for 2013
Regardless of the stage of the economic cycle, our long-term aims and the structural growth 
opportunities in our industry remain unchanged and we will continue to work within the 
framework of our four Strategic Pillars as we build towards achieving them. The long-term 
opportunities in this industry are very significant indeed.
At the same time, we recognise the need for short-term financial performance. Looking 
ahead to 2013, we expect the overall economic backdrop to remain difficult and our markets 
to continue to be multi-speed. That means we need to be both adaptable to the world as it 
changes and selective about areas for investment. Achieving the right balance of building 
scale for the long term, exploiting stronger market segments and reducing costs and driving 
productivity to maximise the bottom line in more difficult areas will be key to our success.
Within this, my primary focus will be on the following specific areas for 2013:
delivering improved financial performance in the uk
Our number-one priority is improving the financial performance of the UK business.  
The recessionary UK market, however, remains very difficult, and in many of our core 
specialisms such as Banking & Finance, or Construction & Property, the market continues  
to be increasingly challenging. We have already made significant progress in reducing  
the cost base of the UK business and thereby defended the financial performance of  
the business over the year. However, we will continue to look for further areas to reduce 
costs but will be careful this will not damage the underlying fabric of the business. 
Simultaneously, we will continue to focus on improving the productivity of our consultant 
base and redirecting resources to fully capitalise on all opportunities for growth.
s elective investment in growth markets or buoyant areas
Over the years we have deliberately built a business with exposure to a diversified range  
of industry specialisms and a market leadership position in most. Several opportunities  
for growth exist across the business today, even in the current uncertain macroeconomic 
environment, particularly in those industries characterised by highly skilled technical experts. 
Examples include life sciences, natural resources and mining, oil and gas and IT engineering. 
Having already built the global market-leading brand in each of these technical areas, our 
clients and candidates recognise the depth of our expertise to help them and  
we will continue to invest selectively in these areas, for example by increasing headcount  
in our existing businesses in large markets such as Germany, Australia and Canada as well  
as building critical mass in our newer markets such as the USA and Brazil.
Ensuring we capitalise on structural growth opportunities 
The structural growth potential of our industry represents a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. 
We have built businesses with market-leading exposure to the most significant opportunities 
and a key focus remains on ensuring we are ideally positioned to fully capitalise on this, 
whether that is in more developed economies such as Germany or Japan, or emerging 
economies such as Brazil. We will continue to invest appropriately to build our business in 
these areas so that we maintain market-leading positions, and seize the long-term potential 
for growth that exists.
o pErat Ional focus 
rE sE archI ng n Ew m EdIa
Social media networks  
and the internet are now  
an integral part of the way  
we source candidates and 
address key markets.
We have established a coordinated, 
informed and standardised approach  
to our social media presence worldwide. 
Global and country or specialism-specific 
pages on networks such as Facebook and 
LinkedIn provide a forum for discussion  
as well as a means of attracting new 
candidates and marketing available roles. 
Via our dedicated Research & Development 
department, we continue to monitor and 
evaluate new media and social network 
opportunities and threats and measure 
the effectiveness of our existing activity.
92,000
follow Ers on l Ink EdIn
20
fac Ebook pag Es
