 HAYS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 10
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OUR YEAR
CHAIRMAN
ALAN 
THOMSON
CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A summary of our approach to all aspects  
of corporate & social responsibility and an 
update on our progress. Pg40
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Including a description of our governance 
framework, the structure and purpose of our 
Board committees and how we engage with 
shareholders. Pg47
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Biographies of each of our executive and  
non-executive directors. Pg48
REMUNERATION REPORT
Detail of the remuneration of our executive 
directors in the year, including an explanation 
of the methodologies we use. Pg66
Group net fees decreased by 1%
(1)
 in 2013, with good growth in our 
CE&RoW division offset by a decrease in Asia Paciﬁc and a broadly 
ﬂat net fee performance in the UK & Ireland. We experienced marked 
differences in market conditions around the world over the year, 
which were prone to rapid change. As an example, net fees in our 
Australian Resources & Mining business fell by more than 30%
(1)
  
in the year, as concerns regarding the global economic outlook  
saw activity levels there slow. In contrast, elsewhere 14 countries 
delivered net fee growth of over 10%
(1)
 in the year, including Canada 
which grew by 31%
(1)
 and where we invested signiﬁcantly in the year 
to capitalise upon this buoyant market. In France, however, market 
conditions became very difficult, but the strength of our French 
team was in evidence as they built market share, grew net fees year-
on-year, and expertly managed their cost base to deliver improved 
proﬁt – a stand-out performance. On the next page you can ﬁnd a 
summary of our year as it unfolded by quarter.
Returning the UK business to proﬁt was a key objective at the start 
of the year and I am particularly pleased to report that we have 
delivered this. Achieving a £12.1 million improvement in operating 
proﬁt is a good result in a market which remained tough and I 
applaud the efforts of everyone in our UK team. They have 
impressed me with their focus on improving productivity, their 
discipline on controlling costs and most importantly their ability  
to capitalise on those opportunities that were available.
Indeed, as I have travelled around the Group this year, visiting Hays 
offices in Singapore, Australia, Canada, Japan, Dubai, France and 
Germany, the quality of our people around the world has consistently 
impressed me. Their expertise and commitment has been the key  
to our ﬁnancial and operational performance this year, and I would 
like to thank everyone in the Group for their efforts over the last 
12 months.
  I am encouraged by the 
performance of the Group 
this year. To have delivered 
such a resilient ﬁnancial  
result, including a return to 
proﬁt in the UK, is a signiﬁcant 
achievement given the  
fragile market backdrop  
we have faced. 
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing activities  
at constant currency.
(2) Dividend cover based on earnings per share based on continuing activities. OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
11
GOVERNANCE AND BOARD
One of my main areas of focus is ensuring that the Group operates to 
the highest standards in respect of governance as well as meeting our 
corporate and social responsibility obligations to all stakeholders.
On the opposite page, you will ﬁnd a table of the contents covering 
all of the details in these areas, but there are two speciﬁc points  
I wish to highlight.
Firstly, in last year’s Annual Report I made it clear how important  
it is that the make-up of the Board not only reﬂects the shape of  
our business today, but also evolves to reﬂect what is a truly global, 
technology-enabled business. During the year, we further strengthened 
the Board with the appointment of Torsten Kreindl. Torsten’s 
background (which you can ﬁnd in detail on page 51) makes him 
ideally placed to advise on issues to do with Europe, a region which 
is so important to our Group and where he is based. Torsten also  
has in-depth experience of new and emerging digital media and 
technologies which have become central to the future development 
of our industry. Ensuring that the make-up of the Board is reﬂective 
of the issues facing the Group today and in the future remains a 
priority of mine, and will remain so throughout my Chairmanship.
Secondly, on executive pay. In an industry which is as cyclical and 
inextricably linked to the macroeconomic cycle as ours, it is essential 
that our senior team are rewarded appropriately throughout the 
cycle. Their rewards must reﬂect not only their ability to position the 
Group for long-term growth, whilst delivering ﬁnancial returns in the 
short term, but also appropriately ensure that management are fully 
aligned to the interests of shareholders. Ensuring we achieve this 
balance in the current fast-changing economic environment is 
something that the Board takes very seriously. With this in mind  
we have outlined in the Remuneration Report our rationale and 
methodology regarding this year’s remuneration packages.
DIVIDEND
Reﬂecting our ﬁnancial performance this year, the Board has 
proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 1.67 pence per share, unchanged from 
last year. This results in a full year dividend of 2.50 pence per share, 
again unchanged from last year, and representing a dividend cover 
ratio of 2.1x
(2)
.
The Board fully recognises the importance to all shareholders of 
paying a sustainable and progressive dividend. We believe that 
dividends should be covered by earnings in the range of 2.0x – 
3.0x
(2)
 and we remain committed to reviewing the dividend payout 
when cover sustainably reaches 2.5x
(2)
.
SUMMARY
2013 has been an encouraging year for the Group. We have delivered 
a resilient ﬁnancial performance in the context of a generally fragile 
economic backdrop. 
Operationally, we have continued to make signiﬁcant progress, 
taking action to drive cost savings and efficiency improvements 
across the business and building on our position as industry leaders 
in the way we think about and utilise new and evolving technologies. 
Longer term, the structural growth opportunities available to  
the Group are clear, and the Board remains focused on ensuring  
that the Group is positioned to take full advantage of them.
ALAN THOMSON
Chairman
Q1: MARKETS  
OVERALL STABLE
Markets were overall stable  
but multi-speed. Germany 
delivered excellent growth to 
achieve record fees, Australia  
& New Zealand were broadly 
sequentially stable although 
mining markets started to 
weaken, while UK market 
conditions were very difficult. 
Several markets during the 
period were impacted by 
further economic uncertainty, 
notably those in Southern 
Europe. 
Q2: SEVERAL  
MARKETS FRAGILE
Several markets were fragile 
through the quarter and we 
experienced a material step-down 
in activity in the resource and mining 
sector in Australia. Elsewhere, net 
fees continued to grow in our 
German business and although 
conditions in the UK market 
remained tough, they were broadly 
stable, with growth in the public 
sector driven by permanent job 
churn. Critically, despite further net 
fee declines, we delivered a return 
to proﬁtability in the UK business 
for the ﬁrst half of the year. The 
Group completed the reﬁnancing 
of its debt facilities in October 
with a new ﬁve-year, unsecured 
£300 million revolving credit 
facility to October 2017.
Q4: RETURN TO YEAR-ON-
YEAR GROWTH IN THE UK
Overall, markets were stable 
but mixed. The UK returned  
to year-on-year fee growth  
for the ﬁrst time in three years. 
Germany continued to deliver 
growth. We saw a stand-out 
performance in France, where 
the market remained very 
difficult but we grew by 10%
(1)
, 
whilst seven countries saw net 
fee declines
(1)
. After a period of 
sequential stability, activity in 
our Australian mining business 
stepped down at the end of the 
quarter. In June, we appointed 
Torsten Kreindl to the Board as 
a non-executive director. We 
again upgraded our full year 
operating proﬁt guidance to  
be at the top of the range of 
market estimates.
Q3: TEMP RESILIENT, PERM  
MORE CHALLENGING
The start to the second half in  
our key temp and contractor 
markets was encouraging and 
although many perm markets 
were challenging, they were 
broadly stable. Although  
Germany continued to grow,  
the rates of growth slowed 
through the quarter. In the UK, 
net fees were ﬂat year-on-year 
but returned to modest 
sequential growth. Overall 
market conditions in Australia 
remained challenging but 
sequentially stable through the 
quarter. We commented that  
we expected full year operating 
proﬁt to be at the top of the 
range of market estimates.
OUR YEAR AS IT HAPPENED
In the last 12 months the Group has performed  
well against a backdrop of challenging global 
markets, proving the value of our diversiﬁed 
business, selective approach to investment  
and focus on cost control. HAYS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 12
 STRA TEGY
IN THIS SECTION
14 Hays Business Model
16 Business Model in Action
18  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Oil & Gas is a key area of focus as we further develop our 
Canadian business, leveraging existing global relationships  
as well as our recently opened office in Houston, USA. STRATEGY OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
13
CANADA
FUTURE MATERIAL PROFIT DRIVER
THE OPPORTUNITY:
Canada is a market which has a long-established and well 
understood specialist recruitment industry. This has allowed 
us to organically grow our business there using both our 
relationships with multinational businesses with operations 
in the country and with domestic clients. Although showing 
signiﬁcant recent growth, our scale in Canada today is 
relatively small and we therefore see a major opportunity to 
develop further by embedding more specialisms, investing 
aggressively for growth where appropriate and continuing 
the build-out of our Contractor business.
HAYS IN CANADA
Our recent success in Canada is an example of 
how we organically grow our business, leveraging 
our cross-border relationships and global network 
and using existing Hays management talent from 
around the world, alongside strong local teams. 
Having entered the country in FY 2002 with our 
Accounting & Finance and Construction & 
Property specialisms, we have embedded other 
technical specialisms including Resources & Mining 
and, most recently, IT Contracting. Our focus 
remains on further diversifying our offering in 
Canada, building new specialisms and contract 
types. We continue to draw on our international 
database of clients and candidates, allied to the 
growing list of local businesses we serve, to drive 
the next phase of growth for Hays in Canada.
HAYS IN ACTION
Suncor is Canada’s largest Oil & Gas company with almost 
13,000 employees. They approached Hays to work with them  
to identify candidates for several senior positions in the 
Netherlands and Norway, where they also have signiﬁcant 
operations. Having built our relationship with Suncor in Calgary 
over several years, we developed a deep understanding of the 
company’s requirements. Combining this understanding with 
our global footprint and database we were able to identify the 
best candidates for Suncor, wherever they were in the world. 
We continue to focus on excelling in delivering cross-border 
solutions for our large multinational clients.
NET FEES (£m) HEADCOUNT
2013 2009
10.2
15.1
2013 2009
87
136
5
2
HAYS OFFICES: NORTH AMERICA
CANADA
– CALGARY
– MISSISSAUGA
– OTTAWA
– TORONTO
– VANCOUVER
USA
– NEW YORK
– HOUSTON
(1) Hays management estimate.
Canadian market
(1)
25%
Hays Canada
net fees FY13
Temp Perm
84%
75%
16%
SIGNIFICANT GROWTH  
OPPORTUNITIES
To ﬁnd out more visit hays.com and hays.ca
