 Chairman’s Statement
Compared with last year, revenue from the
group’s activities increased by 2.3% to
£557.3 million. Profit before tax declined 
by 11.2% to £40.1 million.
Earnings and dividend
Shareholders will be aware that during the
last two years, the board has progressively
increased dividends with the intention of
achieving a payout ratio of 67% by the end
of 2009. The board remains committed to 
this objective, but whilst difficult trading
conditions persist, has decided to delay the
full implementation of this policy. We intend
to resume our commitment to enhancing
shareholder returns through increasing
dividends as soon as it is evident that the
economies in the regions in which we trade
have returned to normal conditions. 
The board is therefore recommending a final
dividend of 14.1p per share. Total dividend
for the year will decrease by 14.7% from
23.1p to 19.7p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting,
will be payable at the close of business on 
5 June 2009.
Strategy
The performance of our 50 businesses in 
the UK and four businesses in Continental
Europe confirms that our fundamental
strategy, of operating these businesses
autonomously whilst complying with strict
operational and financial disciplines, is
delivering sustainable results.
This strategy allows the highly motivated 
and incentivised individual management
teams to focus on their specific business
objectives within either the geographical
areas or specific product sectors in which
they operate.
The key objectives for the group and within
each individual business are to maintain and
continue to expand our position as the
leading floorcoverings distributor in Europe.
The development of the group will be
achieved through a combination of organic
growth, as market conditions allow, and
continued investment in new freehold
distribution facilities, which will incorporate
the latest material handling equipment. 
This will be supplemented by the strategic
acquisition of floorcovering distributors to
enlarge our position in the UK and
Continental Europe.
Operations
Through the complementary efforts of the
senior and individual business management,
we continue to work closely with the leading
worldwide flooring manufacturers to develop
residential and commercial products in order
to enhance our market position.
I am pleased to report that, whilst the UK market proved
to be particularly challenging during 2008, each of our
business sectors and product categories outperformed
market indicators and increased their market share. 
Our businesses in Continental Europe benefited from 
more stable conditions and were able to continue their
improvement. 
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 10 This relationship with our suppliers has
resulted in our 50 businesses in the UK,
located in 19 distribution centres and 12
service centres, launching 3,725 new products
through our 361 external sales people who
positioned 732,000 new point of sale items
and sample books into independent flooring
retailers and contractors.
Products are developed and launched in an
ongoing timely manner, to ensure that our
customers are at the forefront of all new
products coming into their respective
markets.
Our businesses in Continental Europe continue
to prosper and the ongoing development will
be enhanced by the construction of a new
freehold purpose built distribution centre for
our Dutch operations.
Employees
The benefit of a group structure, combined
with encouraging the autonomy of individual
business operations, provides all employees
with the opportunity for career progression 
in both specific businesses and the group 
as a whole. This was particularly evident
during 2008 and early 2009 when a number
of our employees continued their career
development through internal promotion. 
We wish to thank all of our management 
and employees for their contribution to the
group’s performance in 2008.
Outlook
During the last 16 years, our floorcovering
distribution business has delivered continual
growth in sales revenue, profitability and
dividend payment. This growth has been
interrupted in 2008 due to the wider
economic conditions.
In light of these conditions, the group has
undertaken certain restructuring and reduced
costs during 2008 and the first quarter of
2009. With unpredictable markets, we will
continue to carefully monitor and reduce
overheads where possible whilst retaining 
our high level of service to customers.
Notwithstanding this, we are committed to
pursuing our fundamental strategy and
maintaining the autonomous structure of 
the group, providing a platform to maximise
our market position and achieve our core
objective of sustainable future growth.
Graham Waldron Chairman
We are committed 
to pursuing our fundamental
strategy to maximise our market
position and achieve sustainable
future growth
THE YEAR IN REVIEW
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 11 ORDER
Customers in the 
UK, who are principally
independent flooring
retailers and contractors,
placed 4,576,574 orders
during 2008
Active Customer Accounts
2008 2007 2006
41,539
39,033
36,225
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 12 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
SELECT
Immediate order
processing, comprehensive
product ranges and high
stock levels allow us to
respond quickly to
customer demand
UK Warehouse Storage
48
million
cubic feet
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 13 CUT
Investment in material
processing and handling
equipment enables us to
increase efficiency and
reduce waste
UK Cut Lengths
1,014
per hour
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 14 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
DELIVER
Orders, which are
received on a daily basis,
are processed immediately
and subject to customers
requirements delivered the
following day
UK Deliveries 
24,400
per week
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 15
