 Chief Executive’s Review
During 2008, the combined performance of
our 50 UK businesses resulted in a marginal
decrease in sales revenue of 1.1%, which on
a like for like basis was a decrease of 2.5%.
With the benefit of a strong first quarter, 
first half like for like sales revenue in the 
UK increased by 2.8%. However, with market
conditions deteriorating in the second half,
like for like sales revenue declined by 7.2%.
We believe that the performance of the UK
businesses is particularly robust in what were
extremely challenging market conditions and
undoubtedly, our collective businesses were
able to increase their market share.
This was achieved through a group strategy
based on autonomous businesses, with
focused and motivated management teams
and sales representatives, developing their
individual markets in both residential and
commercial floorcovering with independent
flooring retailers and contractors.
Our businesses in Continental Europe
continue to prosper, where revenue from 
our businesses located in France, Switzerland
and the Netherlands increased on a like for
like basis by 3.2% in local currency. 
Facilities investment
During 2008, we completed the construction
of a new purpose built freehold 42,000 square
feet (sq ft) distribution facility for MCD Wales
in Bridgend. This became operational in the
spring of 2008, enabling MCD Wales to
increase their residential and commercial
business in South Wales and the south west
of England.
The two additional service centres located 
in Dartford, 5,000 sq ft, and Walthamstow,
9,000 sq ft, became operational at the
beginning of 2008, enabling Faithfulls to
enlarge significantly its commercial presence
in London.
During May 2008, we opened our 6,000 sq ft
freehold service centre in Southampton,
which provides Richards with an enlarged
commercial presence in the south of England.
We have completed the 6,000 sq ft extension
to the freehold distribution facility of Baileys
Plymouth, which will allow Baileys to develop
commercial activities with flooring
contractors in the south west of England, 
to complement what has principally been 
a residential business to date.
In the Netherlands, the construction of a 
new purpose built freehold 65,000 sq ft
distribution centre is now complete. This 
will allow Lethem Vergeer and the recently
acquired Silvester to enhance their product
offering and increase service levels to
customers.
We are in the process of applying for
planning permission and in final negotiations
to purchase land to relocate the Faithfulls
and Garrods businesses in Hadleigh, near
Ipswich. This new 120,000 sq ft freehold
distribution centre, anticipated to be
complete by the end of 2010, will
considerably increase the two businesses
profile in the south east of England in both
residential and commercial flooring.
Restructuring
On 23 September 2008, a fire completely
destroyed our distribution centre in
Northampton, from which the Garrard Waters
business operated. With the benefit of
disaster management procedures and utilising
information technology, the Garrard Waters
business was operational the following day
from our Coleshill distribution centre.
We have established a local presence for
Garrard Waters’ management and sales
representatives in a 10,000 sq ft service
centre in Northampton to maintain and
enhance their customer relationships. 
The principal logistics service continues 
to operate from Coleshill.
In the late autumn, we decided to relocate
the logistics of Baileys Bristol and Solmere
Bishop Auckland to our existing larger
distribution centres in Thatcham and
Gildersome, Leeds respectively. By
maintaining their independent management
and sales activity with both suppliers and
customers, this restructuring provides Baileys
and Solmere with extended product ranges
and a comprehensive logistics service to
benefit their customers.
With the particularly challenging markets 
we are operating in, the group has also been
prudent with the recruitment of replacement
employees. In conjunction with the
restructuring at Garrard Waters, Baileys and
Solmere, we reduced the number of employees
during 2008 by 9%, from 1,892 to 1,720.
UK operations
Our 50 businesses in the UK continue to
operate within five defined business sectors.
This allows the autonomous businesses to
optimise their market presence, working to
clearly defined strategies and objectives.
We believe that the performance of the UK businesses is
particularly robust in what were extremely challenging market
conditions, and were able to increase their market share.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 16 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
Regional multi-product: The 20 businesses
sell both residential and commercial
floorcovering, operating regionally, in total
giving a comprehensive geographical coverage
throughout the UK. Whilst sales revenue
declined by 5.6%, market indications would
substantiate this outperformed the UK
floorcovering market and consequently these
businesses increased their market share.
National multi-product: The Mercado 
network of businesses, operating nationally
throughout England, Wales and Northern
Ireland, also outperformed the market in
residential and commercial floorcovering
notwithstanding its modest decline in sales
revenue of 2.4%.
Regional commercial: The 15 operations in
this sector, four of which are benefiting from
an investment in new facilities, were able to
increase sales revenue by 7.4%. It is our
intention in coming years to increase the
number of service centres, in order to enlarge
the geographical presence of these operations
for the regional distribution of commercial
floorcovering.
Residential specialist: Through a continuing
process of product development and
marketing, particularly the medium to high
price carpet products, these 13 businesses
were able to outperform significantly the UK
carpet market and increased sales revenue by
13.9%.
Commercial specialist: Our four commercial
specialist businesses enjoyed a more positive
commercial market and were able to increase
sales revenue by 1.2%.
yourfloors.co.uk
In July 2008, we launched the consumer
internet gateway, yourfloors.co.uk. The
yourfloors facility creates an opportunity 
for independent flooring retailers to take
advantage of the increasing trend for
consumers to purchase online. 
Our 50 businesses 
in the UK continue to operate
within five defined business
sectors allowing them to 
optimise their market 
presence
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 17 Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Each individual retail customer participating
enjoys the benefit of their own website
created by yourfloors.
Performance criteria measured by daily
activity on the website, sample requests 
and ultimately orders, are showing an
increasing daily trend. Since its launch, we
have recorded 252,512 visits to the website
and satisfied 12,865 requests for samples.
With further enhancements currently being
undertaken, we expect yourfloors to provide 
a benefit in coming years to our customer
base and ultimately, to the group as a whole.
Suppliers
The business relationship and partnership
with our principal suppliers is particularly
important to the ongoing growth of the
group’s activities. This consistent approach,
both from a group strategic involvement and
the product development of our individual
management teams, enables the continual
launch of new products through our external
sales teams into independent flooring
retailers and contractors.
Products
The product development activity with our
suppliers has resulted in an increased 
market presence throughout the principal
floorcovering products in the UK.
Carpet continues to be our largest product
category, accounting for 45% of UK sales
revenue. During 2008, we launched 2,224 
new ranges, placing 491,000 new point of
sale items into our customers and, whilst
sales declined 4.7% in the year, market
indicators would again suggest this
significantly outperforms the market as 
a whole.
Residential vinyl sales revenue increased by
2.2% supported by the placement of 170,000
new point of sale items to launch 956 new
ranges with independent flooring retailers 
and contractors.
Wood and laminate benefited from a number
of innovative product launches in laminate
flooring and an increasing presence in
engineered and solid wood, which enabled
the sales revenue decrease to be managed 
to 1.2%.
Rugs have continued to enlarge their profile
in the group, principally through the
activities of National Carpets, Crucial Trading
and Plantation Rug Company. This has
resulted in the sales revenue of rugs
increasing by 46% and the product now
accounts for 2.5% of UK sales revenue.
Commercial Flooring produced an increase 
in sales revenue of 5.2% benefiting from
stronger demand for commercial flooring 
and the developing presence of our regional
commercial businesses. Commercial flooring
now accounts for 31% of UK sales revenue.
funonthefloor.com
During 2008, the group contributed to 
a generic advertising campaign,
funonthefloor.com, to increase the profile 
and consumer awareness of carpets in the 
UK. Given the existence of particularly
challenging market conditions when this
initiative was launched, the results are very
difficult to measure. The participants in the
campaign have agreed to a reduced level of
contribution to continue the initiative during
2009.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 18 In the Netherlands, Lethem Vergeer continued
to enlarge its business, principally in
residential floorcovering, increasing sales
revenue by 2.0%.
In October 2008, we acquired the residential
distribution business of Silvester in the
Netherlands. This business was immediately
relocated following completion, to our
original distribution centre. During March
2009, Lethem Vergeer and Silvester
commenced operations from the new 
purpose built distribution centre.
Outlook
During the financial and operating plan
process for 2009, we considered very carefully
the market conditions before us. Whilst the
trading environment continues to be
challenging, the group’s performance in 
the first quarter of 2009 has been in line
with our planned expectations.
The autonomous management teams in the
UK and Continental Europe are clearly focused
on their individual targets and measurements,
which we consider are positioned at realistic
levels. Assuming no further significant
deterioration in market conditions, the 
group believes it is structured to achieve 
its operating objectives for the year.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
THE YEAR IN REVIEW
Customers
The number of active accounts increased 
from 39,033 in 2007 to 41,539 in 2008. 
This clearly demonstrates the market strength 
and financial stability of independent flooring
retailers and contractors. During the year, our
customers placed 4,576,574 orders, compared
with 4,624,489 in 2007 and although credit
taken by customers increased from 42 days in
2007 to 44 days in 2008, this was primarily
due to an increase in the proportion of
business with flooring contractors. 
Acquisitions
The group has continued to evaluate
acquisitions in both the UK and Continental
Europe and whilst only one acquisition was
completed during the year, it is our intention
to enlarge our market position where a
potential acquisition is a strategic benefit 
to the group.
Europe
Our businesses in France, Switzerland and 
the Netherlands continued the positive
performance of previous years, increasing
sales revenues by 3.2% in local currency.
In France, LMS enjoyed a solid market in both
residential and commercial floorcovering.
With the sales activities of its 21 service
centres, supported by two principal
distribution centres, LMS increased sales
revenue by 3.0%.
Belcolor in Switzerland continued to enlarge
its presence in commercial flooring and
parquet, complementing its presence in
residential floorcovering, and increased 
sales revenue by 3.7%.
The number of active
customer accounts increased
from 39,033 in 2007 to 41,539
in 2008 illustrating that the
independent sector continues 
to prosper
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 19
