 During 2009, revenue from the UK businesses 
collectively declined by 6.1% on a like for like 
basis. As reported previously, the decline in 
revenue was 10.7% in the first half. A generally 
improving performance in the second half, 
resulting in a like for like deficit of only 1.8%, 
culminated with the final quarter actually 
producing improved revenue of 1.0% against  
the corresponding period in 2008.
Various market indicators would suggest that 
residential and commercial floorcovering markets 
suffered a substantial decline during the year and 
therefore, we believe our result represents a solid 
performance.
We will continue with our strategy of concentrating on 
floorcovering distribution in the UK and Continental 
Europe. Utilising the business and management 
structure through which we operate, we are confident of 
continuing to out-perform the floorcovering market and 
develop our business, principally by organic growth and 
appropriate strategic acquisitions.
UK operations
The UK operations now incorporate 49 individual 
businesses, operating from 18 distribution centres and 
13 service centres. The management teams of these 
businesses are positioned within five market sectors, 
dependent upon geographical focus and product 
offering.
Whilst we have not undertaken any significant 
restructuring during 2009, we have been extremely 
prudent with staff recruitment and therefore staff 
numbers in the UK, which peaked at 1,874 in 2008, 
have reduced from 1,729 in January 2009, to 1,661 in 
December 2009. Currently, the total number of staff in 
the UK is 1,655.
Following the restructuring in 2008 and the retention of 
that structure into 2009, we have ensured that our high 
service levels are maintained, which incorporates the 
ongoing launch of new products, a comprehensive stock 
holding and distribution infrastructure, to provide an 
efficient next day delivery service to our customers.
The five market sectors are:
Regional multi-product: These 20 businesses, which 
maximise their geographical market position by selling 
both residential and commercial floorcovering, now 
represent 53.8% of UK sales revenue. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Active Customer 
Accounts
2009
41,334
2007
39,033
2008
41,539
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 National multi-product: The Mercado network of 
businesses, with a presence throughout England, 
Wales and Northern Ireland, selling residential 
and commercial floorcovering produced a robust 
performance.
Regional commercial: The 15 operations in this sector 
increased their revenue during the year. Through 
organic growth, investment and potential acquisitions, 
we believe this is a particular area of growth, with 
regard to the number of locations and revenue.
Residential specialist: The 14 businesses that represent 
our residential specialist activities have also increased 
revenue and now account for 16.5% of total UK 
revenue. The market presence and trade brands of 
our various residential specialist businesses has been 
strengthened through increased point of sale and an 
enhanced product offering, giving this business sector 
a particularly strong opportunity for growth over the 
coming years.
Commercial specialist: During the autumn of 2009, 
we decided to merge the sales and marketing activity 
of two commercial specialist businesses into the main 
commercial JHS brand, providing JHS with a much 
stronger sales and marketing platform for future 
growth.
Customers in the UK, who are 
principally independent flooring 
retailers and contractors, placed 
4,050,577 orders during 2009
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
The Year in Review Chief Executive’s Review continued
Suppliers
It is encouraging that our suppliers have remained 
stable during this challenging period. We work very 
closely with our principal suppliers, both from a group 
perspective and through our individual management 
teams. This ensures an ongoing process of development 
and new product launches, to ensure that our 
customers in both the residential and commercial 
sectors are at the forefront of all new initiatives 
introduced into the UK market.
Products
Carpet remains our largest product category, 
accounting for 44.7% of UK revenue. We have an 
extremely broad base of products covering all aspects 
of the market and consumer taste, from base grade 
polypropylene to luxury woollen products.
Sales of carpet, which continue to be dominated by plain 
styles, produced an encouraging performance, with a 
revenue decline of 5.9%. This was achieved through the 
activity of our sales representatives positioning 2,112 
new products, through 502,000 point of sale items. 
Our sales representatives also generated an increased 
proportion of sales from full rolls, which amounted to 
27.5% of our carpet revenue.
14 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
UK Warehouse 
Storage
48
million cubic feet Residential vinyl benefits from an ongoing improvement 
in production techniques, creating attractive cost-
effective flooring. We were able to introduce 470 new 
products, marketed with 102,000 point of sale items into 
independent retailers.
Wood and laminate experienced the same market 
challenges as our other residential product categories, 
however, through a continual process of product 
launches, we were able to maintain our market position.
Rugs are an increasing presence through both 
independent and national retailers. The acquisition of 
Oriental Weavers’ UK distribution activities in the spring 
of 2009 further enhanced our position as we develop 
into a leading UK supplier of both traditional and 
contemporary rugs.
Commercial flooring activities target various aspects 
of the commercial flooring market through flooring 
contractors. Products are supplied into a variety of 
sectors including education, healthcare, offices and 
retail stores and whilst sales revenue declined by 6.3%, 
this again would suggest an out performance of the 
general commercial market.
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
Immediate order processing, 
comprehensive product ranges and 
high stock levels allow us to respond 
quickly to customer demand
Sales of carpet produced an encouraging 
performance, achieved by positioning  
2,112 new products, through 502,000  
point of sale items.
The Year in Review Chief Executive’s Review continued
Market presence
We have increased the market presence of our various 
businesses, through sales representatives positioning 
new point of sale on a daily basis, into independent 
flooring retailers. This is achieved through our 
traditional multi-product distribution businesses  
and the specialist residential activities.
With the involvement and support of our suppliers, 
we are launching a new initiative under the Lifestyle 
Floors brand, to enable our multi-product distribution 
businesses to further strengthen their market presence 
within independent retailers.
Customers
The number of active accounts was stable at 41,334 
(2008: 41,539.) Whilst debtor days moved marginally 
from 44.3 to 45.4 days, the widespread activity of our 
customers and payment in accordance with terms 
reflects the underlying strength of the independent 
floorcovering retailer and contractor.
16 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
UK Cut 
lengths
871
per hour
Carpet 45%
Rugs 3%
Underlay 3%
Vinyl 11%
Commercial  31%
Laminate 
& Wood 7%
Commercial 
specialist  5%
Residential 
specialist  17%
National 
multi-product  14%
Regional 
Commercial  10%
Regional 
multi-product  54%
Revenue Percentage 
by Product
Revenue Percentage 
by Market Sector Continental Europe
Our businesses in France, Switzerland and the 
Netherlands, produced a solid performance during 
the year. Market conditions in France and Switzerland 
enabled our businesses to further develop their 
activities in both residential and commercial flooring.
The Netherlands proved to be a more difficult 
marketplace. However, with the benefit of the new 
65,000 square feet distribution centre, which became 
operational in the spring of 2009, both Lethem Vergeer 
and Silvester were able to produce a satisfactory 
performance.
Acquisitions
We are currently assessing a number of opportunities, 
particularly in the UK, and would be hopeful that 
during the course of 2010 we will be able to complete 
acquisitions to enhance our market position in both 
residential and commercial floorcovering.
We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, 
to enlarge our core business activities in the UK and 
Continental Europe.
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
Investment in material processing and 
handling equipment enables us to 
increase efficiency and reduce waste
The Year in Review Chief Executive’s Review continued
Investments
We are continuing with the project to relocate Faithfulls, 
our regional multi-product business in the south 
east of England, to a development site in Hadleigh, 
near Ipswich. We would anticipate finalising the 
purchase of land during the course of this year, with 
the construction of a 127,500 square feet purpose built 
freehold distribution centre completing in the summer 
of 2011.
We have since 2004, occupied on a leasehold basis, 
50% of a distribution centre in Rochdale, from which 
National Carpets operate. We are currently concluding 
the purchase of the 110,000 square feet freehold 
distribution centre which will give us ownership of the 
total site and provide National Carpets with increased 
capacity and an opportunity to enlarge its activities.
With the growth of our regional commercial businesses, 
it is still the group’s intention to increase the number of 
service centres in key geographical locations.
18 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
UK 
Deliveries
22,600
per week Outlook
Following a more positive end to 2009, we are optimistic 
about a return to growth in 2010. However, market 
conditions, particularly in the UK, continue to be 
challenging, which has made normal seasonal trends 
and predictability difficult to establish.
Notwithstanding the current uncertainty, we believe the 
management and structure is in place to enable us to 
continue out-performing the market and take advantage 
of any improvement in the economy.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
The management and structure is in place 
to enable us to continue out-performing 
the market and take advantage of any 
improvement in the economy.
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
Orders, which are received on a daily 
basis, are processed immediately and 
subject to customers requirements 
delivered the following day
The Year in Review
