 As anticipated, 2009 proved to be a challenging 
year following the downturn in market conditions 
that prevailed in the second half of 2008 and into 
the first half of 2009. More encouragingly, we 
experienced an improving trading trend in the 
second half of 2009, particularly the final quarter, 
as contraction in the floorcovering market 
appeared to cease, albeit at a level reduced on 
the previous year.
Total sales revenue for 2009 amounted to £533.8 million, 
a decline of 4.2% on the previous year . Profit before tax 
declined by 45.0% to £22.1 million. Notwithstanding 
the decline in revenue, we believe the group has out-
performed the floorcovering market and by retaining our 
fundamental operating structure, we are well positioned 
to take advantage as conditions improve.
Earnings and dividend
The board has elected to maintain a dividend cover ratio 
in line with 2008 and is therefore recommending a final 
Chairman’s Statement
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
dividend of 7.3p per share. Total dividend for the year will 
decrease by 44.2% from 19.7p to 11.0p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 1 July 2010, to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
4 June 2010.
Strategy
Of significant importance to the group’s strategy are  
the autonomous activities and initiatives of our  
individual businesses. Whilst we implemented limited 
re-structuring in the autumn of 2008, we have essentially 
retained the same operational structure throughout 
2009 in order to preserve our service levels and maintain 
operating capacity. Based on our trading experience 
towards the end of 2009, which has broadly continued 
into 2010, it is our intention to retain the current business 
structure for the foreseeable future.
The separate management teams are focused on the 
responsibilities specific to their business, covering 
activity with suppliers, product and customers, whilst 
complying with defined operating and financial policies. 
The performance measurement of our management 
teams and their subsequent reward is based on the 
achievement of their individual business objectives. The group strategy for senior and operational 
management is to maintain our concentration on 
floorcovering distribution and enlarge our activities 
in the UK and Continental Europe. This will allow us 
to develop further the business as markets improve, 
through a combination of organic growth and appropriate 
floorcovering acquisitions as opportunities are assessed 
and concluded.
Operations
We believe the group has benefited significantly, in 
difficult markets, from the autonomous initiatives of our 
49 businesses, operating from 18 principal distribution 
centres in the UK, each one focused on maximising 
activity in their target geographical areas and various 
product categories.
We very much appreciate the ongoing support from both 
our suppliers, in creating and launching new products 
and our customers, principally the independent flooring 
retailers and contractors. The ongoing success of our 
customers creates the opportunity to out-perform the 
market.
Through a constant process of development, we have 
launched 2,900 new products across our core residential 
activities of carpet, vinyl and laminate. During the year, 
648,000 point of sale items, principally display stands and 
pattern books, were positioned into independent flooring 
retailers and flooring contractors by our 347 external 
sales people.
All three businesses in Continental Europe have made 
a positive contribution. Our operations in France and 
Switzerland performed well and in the Netherlands, 
progress was made despite a more challenging market.
Management and employees
Andrew Simpson, who has been instrumental in the 
development of Headlam, in his position as Managing 
Director of UK Operations since 1991, has informed the 
board of his intention to retire. We thank Andrew for 
his major contribution to the development of individual 
managers and the group as a whole.
David Grove, after three years as a non-executive 
director, has decided to step down from the board to 
The core dynamics of the group are 
well developed and we are confident of 
producing a positive outcome for the year.
concentrate on his other business interests. We would 
like to thank David for his positive contribution.
With the benefit of our group structure, we have 
continued with our policy of internal promotion 
and career progression where possible. This 
enables employees to progress their career to sales 
representatives, sales and general management and in 
certain cases, senior management positions.
We wish to thank all of our management and employees 
for their contribution to the group’s performance in 2009.
Outlook
With market conditions continuing to be challenging 
and whilst uncertainty prevails, we have taken a prudent 
approach to our financial and operating plan for 2010 and 
set realistic growth targets for sales representatives and 
management teams.
The core dynamics of the group are well developed and 
with our autonomous management teams focused on the 
objectives before them, we are confident of producing a 
positive outcome for the year .
Graham Waldron Chairman
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
The Year in Review
