 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12
Various market indicators would suggest that conditions 
remained difficult in both the UK and Continental 
Europe and therefore, the group’s revenue increase 
reflects an outperformance in our respective markets.
We believe that with our autonomous operating 
structure and proactive management teams, we can 
continue to outperform the floorcovering market and 
develop our business, principally by organic growth, 
but also, with appropriate strategic acquisitions.
UK Structure
As referred to in the Chairman’s Statement, we 
considered it appropriate for the group to retain the 
fundamental structure that has been developed over 
the last 19 years, in order to preserve the inherent 
culture and maintain the opportunity to increase the 
group’s market presence.
The UK operations incorporate 49 individual 
businesses, operating from 18 distribution centres and 
14 service centres. These businesses are positioned 
within five market sectors, based on their geographical 
focus and product offering.
The individual businesses market very diverse product 
portfolios, therefore offering an extensive choice to our 
customers throughout the UK.
The five market sectors are:
Regional multi-product: These 20 businesses 
represent 52% of UK revenue, selling both residential 
and commercial floorcovering and provide a 
comprehensive geographical coverage. They have 
continued to develop their market share providing  
a solid base for the group to expand. 
National multi-product: Operating principally under 
the Mercado trade brand, these businesses, offering 
a national service for residential and commercial 
floorcovering throughout England, Wales and 
Northern Ireland, maintained their market position.
Regional commercial: Following on from the 
successful development of this sector, it is our intention 
over the next three years to increase the number  
of operations from 16, either through acquisition  
or development of new service centre operations,  
to further enhance our position in the regional 
commercial market.
Residential specialist: Operating mainly in the middle 
to premium quality carpet market, the performance 
of these 14 businesses has been particularly 
encouraging, given the challenging market conditions. 
They have added an extra dimension to our business 
over the last 10 years and have undoubtedly taken  
the group into additional product areas and widened 
our customer base within the floorcovering market.
Commercial specialist: Following the restructuring 
of our commercial specialist business in 2009, it is 
pleasing to report that JHS has prospered and further 
developed its market position in 2010.
Chief Executive’s Review
The 0.4% increase in the group’s revenue was achieved in both  
a challenging market environment and particularly harsh weather 
conditions in the UK during January and December 2010. If the  
effects of these two months are excluded, the increase in revenue from 
February to November is 1.2% in the UK, which is a better reflection  
of the underlying performance during the year.
Our managers have spent many years  
gaining a thorough understanding of  
the floorcovering market. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
Management
Our individual managers have spent many years 
gaining a thorough understanding of the floorcovering 
market. They are clearly focused on their individual 
objectives against which they are measured and 
subsequently rewarded.
Within the autonomous teams we have taken the 
opportunity, due to retirement and certain changes 
in management, to promote internally and the early 
results of this are particularly encouraging.
It has been the group’s policy to promote from within 
wherever possible, but there are certain instances, 
particularly with our more specialist businesses,  
where it is appropriate to recruit externally.
These various opportunities demonstrate to all our 
employees that there is a career path within the group 
and sufficient opportunities for them to expand their 
individual aspirations.
41,334
41,994
41,539
2009 2010 2008
Active Customer Accounts
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14
Suppliers
We continue to work closely from a group  
strategic perspective and also through our individual 
operating businesses with our suppliers, principally  
the leading floorcovering manufacturers in the UK  
and Continental Europe.
Our supplier base has remained fairly stable 
throughout the last 12 months and we would like to 
thank our suppliers for their ongoing support through 
the launch of new products, which ensures that the 
independent floorcovering retailers and contractors  
are at the forefront of all new floorcovering products  
in our respective markets.
Market Presence
The individual management teams operate within  
a specified strategy relating to their market position, 
complying with standard operating disciplines and 
financial controls. However, within this structure they 
are given autonomy to develop their business through 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
The independent floorcovering retailers and contractors 
are at the forefront of all new floorcovering products.
UK Warehouse Capacity
52
million cubic feet Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15
their relationship with suppliers and customers.  
This ensures that we have a constant programme  
of promotional events, customer initiatives, marketing 
plans and product launches.
During 2010, we have experienced a similar 
performance from our UK businesses in residential  
and commercial floorcoverings. This has resulted  
in the product mix being stable at 69% residential  
and 31% commercial.
Our individual management teams are continually 
developing product and during 2010, our businesses 
in the UK launched 3,109 new products, including 
carpet, residential vinyl, laminate and wood. These 
were supported by our 366 external sales people 
in the UK placing, into independent flooring retailers 
and contractors, 626,637 new point of sale items, 
typically display stands and pattern books.
Furthermore, we launched, through our regional and 
national multi-product businesses, the Lifestyle Floors 
brand during 2010. This was originally intended to 
promote a limited number of carpet ranges, but with 
such a positive reaction from our customer base, we 
have both extended the number of carpet ranges and 
also developed other products under the Lifestyle Floors 
brand, including residential vinyl, laminate, wood and 
luxury vinyl tile.
The Lifestyle Floors initiative, in conjunction with our 
normal daily product activities, will undoubtedly further 
support and develop the market presence of the group.
Residential: 2010
69%
Commercial: 2010 
31%
Commercial: 2009
31%
Residential: 2009
69%
The Year in Review
UK Revenue Percentage by Principal Product
Commercial specialist
5%
Residential 
specialist  
19%
National 
multi-product 
12%
Regional 
Commercial  
12%
Regional 
multi-product 
52%
UK Revenue Percentage by Market Sector Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16
Continental Europe
Our three operations in Continental Europe collectively 
produced a solid operating profit during 2010. 
The most positive performance was produced by 
Belcolor in Switzerland. Whilst market conditions in 
the Netherlands were generally challenging, our three 
businesses, Lethem Vergeer, Interplan and Silvester, 
showed some improvement towards the end of 2010. 
In France our single business, LMS, operating from two 
distribution centres and 21 service centres, produced 
a satisfactory result in a difficult market.
Investments
In May, we completed the purchase of a 110,000 
square feet freehold distribution centre, located in 
Rochdale, to provide National Carpets with increased 
capacity to expand its activities. We are still awaiting 
planning approval, for the construction of a 127,000 
square feet purpose built freehold distribution centre,  
in connection with the project to relocate Faithfulls,  
our regional multi-product business in the southeast  
of England, to a site in Hadleigh near Ipswich.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Each of our business teams are focused on meeting their individual 
targets, which provides the group with confidence to achieve its overall 
objectives for the year.
Customers
In order to maximise our position with independent 
floorcovering retailers and contractors, we closely 
monitor the call rate of our individual external sales 
people, which has culminated in 475,901 visits  
to our customers during the year.
Our customers are able to place orders until late 
afternoon for delivery the following working day.  
This service has resulted in our commercial vehicle 
drivers making 1,126,676 deliveries to customers’ 
premises during 2010.
This continual interface with customers has been 
largely responsible for the increase in the number 
of active accounts during 2010 to 41,994 from 
41,334 in 2009. In conjunction with this, our 
debtor days decreased from 45.4 to 44.8 days. 
It is encouraging that this activity and the payment 
to credit terms of our customers further reflect their 
positive performance and financial health.
UK Cut lengths
34,200
per week Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17
Outlook
The performance in 2010 and a positive start to 
2011 is a result of the tremendous effort from our 
management, sales people and all our employees.  
The group has positioned autonomous businesses  
into specific market sectors to take full advantage  
of all opportunities.
Through this structure we have extensive penetration 
into the floorcovering market encompassing both 
suppliers and customers.
Each of our business teams are focused on meeting 
their individual targets, which provides the group  
with confidence to achieve its overall objectives  
for the year.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
UK Deliveries
1,126,676
during 2010
The Year in Review 18 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 19
The Year in Review
