 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10
I am pleased to report that in 2010, we were able to increase  
revenue by 0.4% to £535.7 million. This was against market  
conditions where most indicators suggested further reductions  
in market size in both the UK and Continental Europe.
Chairman’s Statement
Earnings and dividend
Profit before tax increased from £22.1 million to 
£25.0 million and earnings per share improved by 
12.6% from 19.1p to 21.5p. The board has therefore 
elected to increase the final dividend by 17.4% from 
7.30p to 8.57p. This results in a total dividend for  
the year of 12.4p, which represents an increase  
of 12.7% on 2009.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 1 July 2011 
to shareholders on the register at close of business  
on 3 June 2011.
Strategy
Whilst the group implemented limited restructuring  
in 2008 and 2009, we believe that maintaining  
our fundamental structure has strengthened our market 
position in a challenging environment and gives us  
the opportunity to continue to enlarge the business  
as market conditions stabilise and improve.
The group remains fully committed to the product 
development, sales, marketing and distribution  
of floorcovering in the UK and Continental Europe.  
In the UK, revenue growth and the consequent 
increase in profitability, has been achieved through  
our policy of operating through 49 individual 
management teams and businesses, focused on 
their geographical areas and product categories. 
This performance has been enhanced by a positive 
contribution from our businesses in Continental Europe.
The group’s growth objectives will continue to be 
focused on the development of our floorcovering 
businesses in the UK and Continental Europe.
Maintaining our fundamental structure  
has strengthened our market position in  
a challenging environment. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
The Year in Review
Management and Employees
The board were pleased to advise you in May 
2010, of the appointment of Andrew Eastgate as 
a non-executive director. Andrew brings a wealth of 
corporate experience and we look forward to working 
with him in the future.
Following the retirement last year of Andrew Simpson, 
we have realigned the responsibilities of the senior 
executive managers, Gary Phillips, Tony Judge, 
Keith Yates and Mike McMaster, to develop both 
their group and operational objectives. They direct 
and encourage the individual management teams to 
ensure compliance with group strategy, policy and 
achievement of their individual business objectives.
I would like to thank our management and employees 
for their contribution to another successful year in the 
development of our group.
Outlook
We have made a positive start to 2011 and whilst 
January and February are relatively lower trading 
months, it does give a good indication to future 
trading assuming normal seasonality.
With the group’s strategic direction established and 
the individual management teams having many sales 
and marketing initiatives in place, we are therefore 
confident, at this stage, of achieving our internal 
objectives for the year.
Graham Waldron Chairman
