 14     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Chief Executive’s Review
Market sectors
The 50 businesses in the UK, operating from 18 distribution 
centres and 16 service centres, are structured within five market 
sectors based on their geographical position or product offering.
Regional multi-product: These 20 businesses, operating in both 
the residential and commercial markets, collectively provide a 
comprehensive national coverage. During the year the revenue from 
these businesses increased by 5.3% and given that they represent 
51% of UK revenue, their positive performance is important since it 
provides the group with a solid base from which to expand its market 
presence.
National multi-product: The Mercado businesses have been 
able to increase revenue by 6.8% across their residential and 
commercial activities throughout England, Wales and Northern 
Ireland. We have implemented further initiatives to enhance 
Mercado’s geographical presence and these are covered more 
fully below.
Regional commercial: This sector, which increased revenue by 
10.2%, currently includes 18 operations based in 5 distribution 
and 13 service centres. During the year, we opened a new 
service centre in Carlisle and with modest investment, intend 
to increase the number of service centres to expand our UK 
locations.
Residential specialist: The 14 businesses, operating principally 
in the middle to premium quality carpet market, achieved a 
successful year increasing their revenue by 16.1%. Further 
targeted investment in sales and marketing activities should result 
in these businesses gaining additional market share within their 
sector.
Commercial specialist: These businesses, which increased revenue 
by 1.7% during the year operate throughout the commercial 
markets but have a primary focus in the healthcare and education 
sectors. With additional product development, these businesses 
can secure opportunities in other commercial segments.
Suppliers
Our suppliers are integral to the business development of 
the group and liaise closely with our senior and operating 
management teams. This relationship with the leading 
floorcovering manufacturers, principally in the UK and Continental 
Europe, ensures that our 50 businesses in the UK and five 
businesses in Continental Europe are continuously able to provide 
independent floorcovering retailers and contractors with new 
products. This is supported by appropriate point of sale displays  
to present new floorcovering products and innovations to the 
ultimate end user.
One particular innovation, developed during 2011, is the 
revolutionary carpet fibre WOLLTEC™. This fibre, which is 
exclusive to the group, combines the appearance and luxury 
characteristics of wool with the durability and stain resistant 
properties of polypropylene. The products manufactured with this 
fibre, which have received a particularly positive reaction from 
independent floorcovering retailers, are an example of how the 
group maintains its position at the forefront of new floorcovering 
technology and passes the benefits to its customers.
Market Presence
Our external sales representatives are positioning new product 
into customers on a daily basis, using various types of display 
stands and sample books. In conjunction with the ongoing 
product launches, we further improve our supplier and customer 
relationships with an extensive programme of promotional events 
and customer initiatives. 
During 2011, our businesses launched 3,501 (2010: 3,109) 
new products and we supplied our customers with 658,188 
(2010: 626,637) sample books and display stands. This level 
of activity has contributed to the particularly encouraging trend 
The 7.7% like for like increase in UK revenue reflects a 
particularly positive performance, in a floorcovering market, 
where various indicators would suggest that challenging 
trading conditions remain. Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     15
t he y ear in r eview
for 2011 where our businesses increased revenue in each of the 
product categories of carpet, residential vinyl, wood, laminate, 
commercial flooring and accessories. Whilst revenue attributable 
to commercial flooring increased at a slightly faster rate than 
residential, the overall mix remains unchanged compared with last 
year at 69% residential and 31% commercial.
Lifestyle Floors is now firmly established as a trade brand in the 
UK floorcovering market. The steps taken to significantly enlarge 
our market presence, principally through the installation of display 
modules and lecterns, have been extremely well received by 
independent floorcovering retailers.
We have invested in a management team who are responsible 
for enhancing the performance of Lifestyle Floors, by identifying 
opportunities to maximise the brand and supervise product 
development. They also manage a team of ten merchandisers  
who are being utilised to ensure that the modules and lecterns 
used to display the product are up to date, complete and in 
pristine condition allowing the independent floorcovering retailer 
to maximise the potential of the brand.
Customers
We continue to maximise our presence with independent 
floorcovering retailers and contractors, through our 383 external 
sales people, collectively visiting our customers 488,660 (2010: 
475,901) times during the year.
In the UK, the group is focused on encouraging the individual 
sales and marketing autonomy of the 50 businesses. We are able 
to provide an efficient logistics service to our customers because 
of our comprehensive stockholding and availability of next day 
delivery. During 2011, our fleet of 371 vehicles completed 
1,143,860 (2010: 1,126,676) deliveries to our customers’ 
premises.
“
Our external sales 
representatives are positioning 
new product into customers on  
a daily basis.
” 16     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Active accounts in the UK increased from 41,994 to 43,347 
during the year. As reflected in our revenue increase, the 
independent sector is in good health and continues to take 
market share. It is inevitable that there are business failures and 
the occurrence of bad debts has increased compared with the 
previous year, however, the average period of credit taken by our 
independent customer base, decreased from 42.0 to 40.9 days.
iPads
The introduction of iPads, in conjunction with the development 
of bespoke software, to all of our sales people has undoubtedly 
been beneficial in further improving their working practices and 
time management and ultimately, provides an enhanced service  
to our customers. 
The iPads provide our sales people with improved visibility of real 
time customer data, the ability to access stock files to place orders 
and give an immediate flow of information on customer visits to 
our sales managers. An additional benefit is that our businesses’ 
extensive marketing literature and display information can be 
contained within the iPad for efficient demonstration to our customers.
We have launched the iPad initiative in the Netherlands and intend  
to extend it to France and Switzerland during 2012.
Continental Europe
In Continental Europe, each of our five businesses has contributed 
to an increased level of profitability in mixed market conditions.
Belcolor, our business based in Switzerland, purchases 44.0% 
of its total product requirements in Euros. The appreciation of 
the Swiss Franc against the Euro has therefore had a beneficial 
impact on the business, improving gross margins during the year, 
compensating for reductions in revenue and enabling Belcolor to 
produce a satisfactory result compared with last year.
Market conditions were relatively stable in France, allowing LMS to 
increase its profitability. Similarly in the Netherlands, Lethem Vergeer, 
Interplan and Sylvester were able to produce a solid result.
Management and employees
In addition to the group’s strategy and operating structure, the 
other key element underpinning our ongoing success is the strength 
and experience of our management teams and employees.
The group has a clear policy of promoting employees from 
within wherever possible affording all employees the opportunity 
to develop and fulfil their career aspirations. This has enabled 
employees to progress from relatively junior positions into middle 
and senior management roles and has allowed us to develop an 
entrepreneurial culture throughout the business.
The benefit of this approach is that the group has operating 
management teams, with in-depth knowledge of their business 
objectives and processes, leading the development of our 
businesses.
The strength of our management at the individual business level 
is supported by the small team of senior executive managers 
who through guidance and direction, ensure that our teams are 
pursuing the group’s strategy and contributing to the achievement 
of our operating objectives.
Investments
We currently have a number of plans to further improve and 
enlarge the infrastructure of the group. Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     17
t he y ear in r eview
We have obtained planning permission to extend our distribution 
centre in Tamworth, increasing its footprint from 147,400 square 
feet to 160,200 square feet. This will allow our Residential and 
Commercial specialist businesses to further develop their activities 
in the middle to higher market sectors that they serve.
In Coleshill, we have agreed to acquire, subject to planning 
permission, land adjacent to the existing distribution centre in 
order to increase the size of the centre from 159,500 square feet 
to 283,800 square feet. This will provide the capacity to increase 
our central stock holding in certain product sectors to satisfy the 
demand from our regional distribution centres and manage our 
future working capital investment on a more efficient basis.
We have been involved in a very protracted process to relocate 
Faithfulls, our Regional multi-product business in Hadleigh, near 
Ipswich. Unfortunately, the planning permission issues proved to be 
insurmountable and therefore, we are currently in dialogue with other 
parties to acquire an alternative site, to accommodate a 127,000 
square feet distribution centre, in close proximity to our existing 
operation. 
Mercado, our National multi-product business, is currently in the 
process of opening a 6,800 square feet service centre in Liverpool. 
The service centre will enable Mercado to expand its position in the 
area and provides an opportunity to develop its market share in the 
commercial sector. 
Furthermore, we plan to relocate the trans-shipping depot based 
in Chelmsford, which Mercado utilises to service the southeast of 
England. The new facility, which is located in the near vicinity, 
will also operate as a service centre for Mercado to enlarge its 
commercial activities in this region. 
We are evaluating other modest investments to increase the number 
of service centres in specific geographical locations, which will 
expand our regional commercial activities.
Outlook
The first ten weeks of 2012 have continued a positive trend 
with all five business sectors and each product category in 
the UK continuing to produce increases in revenue against the 
corresponding period last year.
Markets remain challenging and somewhat unpredictable due  
to the general economic outlook combined with uncertainty over 
both raw material prices and currency exchange. However 
through the group’s strategy and structure combined with extensive 
product and marketing initiatives, we are confident that our 
individual businesses can collectively outperform the market.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
UK r even Ue Per Centa GeS 
by Prin CiPal P r ODUCt
2011
2010
31% 
Commercial
69% 
Residential
31% 
Commercial
69% 
Residential
UK r even Ue Per Centa GeS 
by M ar Ket S eCt Or
5% 
Commercial  
specialist
20% 
Residential  
specialist
51% 
Regional  
multi-product
2011
12% 
Regional  
Commercial
12% 
National  
multi-product
5% 
Commercial  
specialist
19% 
Residential  
specialist
52% 
Regional  
multi-product
2010
12% 
Regional  
Commercial
12% 
National  
multi-product 18     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      18     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011       Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     19
t he y ear in r eview
   Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     19 
