 12     Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011      
Chairman’s Statement
Earnings and dividend
Profit before tax increased by 10.3% from £25.0 million to 
£27.6 million and earnings per share improved by 14.4% 
from 21.5p to 24.6p. The board is therefore proposing 
to increase the final dividend by 14.9% from 8.57p to 
9.85p resulting in a total dividend for the year of 14.15p, 
up 14.1% on 2010.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 2 July 2012 to 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 June 
2012.
Strategy
Our strategy remains focused on the development of 
our floorcovering distribution businesses in the UK and 
Continental Europe and the continued improvement of the 
service we provide to independent floorcovering retailers 
and contractors.
The strategy is based upon a well defined operating 
structure that delivers sustained product development, 
marketing and distribution services aimed at supporting 
and enhancing our customers’ position in their markets. 
This structure, built upon over many years, has allowed us 
to continually outperform the floorcovering market through 
various economic cycles. This has been particularly 
evident in recent years when conditions have proved to be 
particularly challenging and during which time the group 
has maintained the ability to increase its market share.
One of the key components of the group’s structure is 
the deliberate proliferation of autonomous businesses 
controlled by dedicated management teams empowered 
to independently develop and enlarge their individual 
business. This decentralised approach, set within a 
well developed and consistently applied framework of 
operational and financial controls, provides the group with 
a wide and penetrating access to the floorcovering market 
enabling our businesses to minimise risk in challenging 
trading environments and respond swiftly to opportunities. 
In the UK, it was particularly encouraging to see this 
strategy deliver success in 2011 when each of the five 
business sectors and all our product categories showed 
increases in revenue against the previous year.
I am pleased to report that the group’s revenue increased by 6.4% in 2011 
from £535.7 million to £569.8 million. Like for like revenue increased in 
the UK by 7.7% and, declined in Continental Europe by 5.0%. The increase 
in the UK, achieved in challenging conditions, represents a continued 
outperformance compared with the floorcovering market.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011     13
t he y ear in r eview
We have a number of investment plans at various stages 
of development, aimed at enlarging and improving the 
infrastructure of the group. The plans relate to replacing 
one and extending two existing distribution centres and 
establishing additional service centres, which will enhance 
our logistics capability and contribute to the group’s long-
term future growth objectives.
Employees
2011 represents another year of progress for the group and 
has been achieved through the collective endeavour of all our 
employees. The board would like to thank our management 
and employees for their efforts and contribution in producing 
another positive result over the course of the year. 
Outlook
With the benefit of the clearly defined strategy and 
autonomous structure, the group has made a solid start 
to 2012. Each of the management teams in the UK and 
Continental Europe are clearly focused on their specific 
objectives with regard to revenue and profit contribution.
Whilst we are operating in challenging markets and a 
particularly competitive environment persists, the autonomous 
structure combined with the experience and tenacity of our 
individual management teams, sales representatives and 
employees should enable the group to achieve its internal 
objectives assuming normal seasonal trends prevail.
Graham Waldron Chairman
“
With the benefit of the clearly 
defined strategy and autonomous 
structure, the group has made a 
solid start to 2012.
”
