 06
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief executive’s review
Business review
Ian Bowles 
Chief Executive Officer
We have  
significant 
opportunities  
for growth in  
all three of  
our current  
vertical market 
sectors
Well positioned for future growth
Strategy
Customer Satisfaction
Deliver the highest quality •	
product and services to our 
customers
Work to ensure every customer •	
is a reference
Strong independent user group •	
Allocate Employees
Continue to attract and retain •	
the very best talent who are 
valued and a key part of our 
success and growth
Focus on Multiple Growth 
Drivers/Opportunities
Maximise penetration of •	
existing vertical markets
Maximising customer value by •	
delivery of multiple applications 
International expansion in •	
Healthcare 
Appropriately judged •	
acquisitions to support the 
strategy
Consideration of additional •	
vertical market sectors
Results
Revenue in the financial year was 
£22.0m (2009: £15.8m), an increase over 
last year of 39%. Trading profit for the 
year, before adjustments for share-
based payments and amortisation of 
intangible assets, was £3.49m (2009: 
£2.53m), an increase over last year of 
38%. The resulting trading profit margin 
was 15.9% (2009: 16.05%), consistent 
with the previous year. Diluted adjusted 
EPS (excluding amortisation of 
intangibles, share-based payments and 
the deferred tax adjustment) increased 
by 18% to 6.31p (2009: 5.36p). 
Licence revenue grew by 22% to £9.3m 
(2009: £7.6m), while Services and 
support revenue grew by 56% to £12.5m 
(2009: £8.0m). By sector, Healthcare 
revenue in the period increased by  
33% to £14.8m (2009: £11.1m), reflecting 
not only the Company’s continued 
partnership with the NHS but also the 
impact of the Time Care and Dynamic 
Change acquisitions. Defence revenues 
grew by 50% to £4.5m (2009: £3.0m), 
principally due to the large order from 
the Australian Army. Maritime revenues 
grew by 12% to £1.8m (2009: £1.6m). 
Organic revenues (excluding the 
acquisitions of Time Care and Dynamic 
Change) grew by 21% to £19.1m  
(2009: £15.8m) during the year. Selling 
and operational expenses in the 
financial year increased from £10.7m  
to £14.8m. This planned increase 
reflects continued investments in all of 
our functional lines of business as well  
as the impact of the acquisitions of 
Time Care and Dynamic Change.
The breadth of the Company’s markets now 
provide a wide range of opportunities Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
07
Well positioned for future growth
Administrative expenses in the financial 
year were £3.7m (2009: £2.5m), the 
planned increase reflecting additional 
costs arising as a result principally of  
the acquisitions of Time Care and 
Dynamic Change.
Operating cash flows during the 
financial year were £4.9m (2009: £1.8m), 
reflecting a significant growth in profits 
over last year in addition to improved 
management of working capital.
Net cash balances at the year-end were 
£2.9m (2009: £3.7m). This reflects:
£3.3m cash expended to part fund •	
the acquisitions of Time Care and 
Dynamic Change. 
A new £2.0m facility taken on  •	
to part fund the acquisition of  
Dynamic Change. 
An increase in debtors of £2.8m •	
reflecting increased sales activity  
in the year. 
An increase in trade, other payables •	
and deferred revenue of £5.9m, 
reflecting new support contracts  
and consultancy services pre-paid  
by customers.
Principal accomplishments
Financial year 2010 has been another 
record year for Allocate. Compound 
growth per annum over the past four 
years has been:
Revenue  39%
Trading profit 50%
Diluted, adjusted EPS 40%
In addition to the Company’s record 
financial results, a number of major 
achievements were also accomplished 
during the past year.
We achieved significant success in all •	
three of our vertical markets during 
2010 growing our Healthcare revenue 
by 33%, Defence revenue by 50% 
and Maritime revenue by 12%.  
Allocate now has a customer base  •	
of 353 NHS Trusts across the UK.  
This demonstrates the continuing 
recognition by our customers of the 
value of our products and services. 
40 NHS Trusts became new •	
Healthroster customers this year.  
In addition, 20 NHS Trusts became 
new customers for our Bank Staff 
Management Solution (BSMS Trinity). 
The Company reported on 31 May •	
2010 that it had been selected as 
the preferred supplier by the State 
Government of New South Wales, 
Australia for a major contract worth 
up to a potential value of A$10m 
(approximately £5.5m at current 
exchange rates) which will start to 
be delivered during the 2011 
financial year. 
The Company also reported that it •	
had won a significant Defence deal 
for the Australian Army valued at 
£2m of licence revenue. 
The acquisition of Time Care in •	
Sweden in December 2009 
establishes a further foundation for 
our strategy of international growth. 
Time Care is a well established, 
growing and profitable business that 
has made great strides in the 
Swedish Healthcare market and 
currently has 58 Swedish hospitals  
as customers. 
The acquisition of Dynamic Change •	
in May 2010 further strengthens  
our strategic position as it brings 
Allocate into the compliance and 
regulatory market, a market closely 
allied to our core market of workforce 
optimisation. In addition, this 
acquisition makes available a new 
Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) 
delivery model to Allocate’s large 
customer base.
Acquisitions
We are satisfied with our two major 
acquisitions during the year, Time Care 
and Dynamic Change. Additionally,  
we are pleased with the positive results 
we continue to see from the prior year 
acquisitions of Key ITS and Baum Hart 
Partners.
Time Care is a leading Swedish-based 
provider of workforce management 
software, with a strong focus on the 
Healthcare market. The acquisition of 
Time Care has provided Allocate with  
a strong geographic footprint in the 
Nordic region, particularly in Sweden, 
where Time Care has customer 
relationships with some 58 hospitals  
and 110 of Sweden’s 290 municipalities. 
As a result of this acquisition, Allocate  
is now one of the leading providers of 
workforce management software for  
the Healthcare sector in Europe. 
“Cooperation between the Royal Australian Navy and 
Allocate Software has been outstanding.  We are on course 
to implement one of the most far reaching, cost effective 
capability management programmes to date.  It will have 
material benefits to all Naval personnel and has the potential to 
improve retention in key areas at time of increased operational 
tempo, while reducing costs.”  
Director Navy Personnel Information Systems Management,  
Royal Australian Navy
Case study: 08
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s review continued
Business review
The international expansion of our Healthcare business  
is proceeding well and as of today we have Healthcare 
customers in Australia, Malaysia, Sweden and New Zealand
Expanding our international footprint
Dynamic Change, a UK-based software-
as-a-service (“SaaS”) provider of 
regulatory compliance, corporate 
governance, risk and performance 
management for the UK Healthcare 
market was acquired in May 2010. 
Dynamic Change has developed its  
SaaS software platform that is used by  
its customers to monitor and manage 
regulatory compliance, corporate 
governance, business objectives, risks 
and controls, performance indicators 
and financial targets. Dynamic Change 
generates over 98% of revenues from  
the Healthcare sector with approximately 
70% of revenues contractually recurring 
from subscriptions. Dynamic Change 
currently has 121 NHS Trusts as 
customers.
Both acquisitions continue to grow their 
business and the task of integrating the 
companies into Allocate is proceeding 
in line with management plans.
Strategy
This year’s very strong results validate 
the strategy that the Board adopted  
in 2007. 
It is our belief that this strategy remains 
appropriate for the next phase of our 
growth. Looking forward we will 
continue to focus on the key elements 
of the strategy that have proven so 
successful during the last few years.
Focus on customer success
The success of our customers is critical 
to our success and future plans. 
We believe it is important that each of 
our customers achieve demonstrable 
financial return from the deployment  
of our applications, justifying their 
investment and allowing them to be a 
reference for prospective customers 
facing similar challenges. Our growing 
and influential UK and overseas 
customer base helped us achieve 
significant international success during 
the year, supporting our efforts to win 
new business in New Zealand and 
Australia. In addition, 40 NHS Trusts 
independently selected Healthroster 
after competitive public tenders during 
this financial year.
Our strong and independent User 
Group attracted over 180 NHS 
professionals, as well as representatives 
from the private Healthcare sector, to 
this year’s annual meeting providing 
fresh input to the development of 
product enhancements and future 
product direction.
Retention and attraction of the  
best talent
The domain expertise and operational 
experience of various members of the 
team provide a significant competitive 
advantage to Allocate when engaging 
with customers and prospects alike. It is 
therefore important for our continued 
growth that we retain and recruit the 
very best talent available to us.
As well as record financial results for 
four consecutive years, we have seen 
growth in our headcount with the result 
that today the Allocate team consists  
of over 245 professionals supporting 
customers across five continents. 
Healthcare: Developing a broader 
applications portfolio.
During the 2010 financial year we 
launched two additional applications, 
Doctor Rostering and e-Expenses  
which deliver additional value to  
our customers. 
All four of our acquisitions in the last 
two years have supported our strategy 
of offering a broader set of applications  Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
09
Expanding our international footprint
to our Healthcare customers. However, 
it remains significant that a material 
proportion of our NHS customer base, 
some two thirds, have purchased only 
one of our products and therefore our 
existing customers remain an avenue  
of significant growth potential. The 
Dynamic Change acquisition also 
brought a new SaaS delivery 
methodology to our offerings which  
will over time enable us to deliver 
applications more cost effectively for 
customers who do not wish to install 
and support applications within their 
own infrastructure. This is a critical 
consideration given the financial 
challenges being faced by Healthcare 
organisations around the world.
During the current financial year we  
will launch additional complementary 
applications developed in conjunction 
with our Healthcare customers.
Focus on multiple growth 
opportunities 
Maximise penetration of existing •	
vertical markets
Augment customer value by delivery •	
of multiple applications 
International expansion in Healthcare •	
Appropriately judged acquisitions to •	
support the strategy
Consideration of additional vertical •	
market sectors
We have significant opportunities for 
growth in all three of our current vertical 
market sectors. In particular, there is a 
considerable cross-sell opportunity 
within our Healthcare customer base as 
we expand the applications portfolio. 
Additionally, by broadening our 
applications portfolio we can deliver 
more significant value to each customer 
and deepen the account relationship. 
As an example over 115 NHS Trusts now 
have more than one of our applications. 
As noted above, this provides a 
significant market opportunity for 
further product sales.
Interestingly, elements of applications 
developed for Healthcare have 
applicability in other verticals; as an 
example, our Healthcare Rostering 
application has recently been ported  
in to the Maritime Suite.
The international expansion of our 
Healthcare business is proceeding well 
and as of today we have Healthcare 
customers in New Zealand, Australia, 
Malaysia and Sweden.
Importantly, the Company reported on 
31 May 2010 that it had been selected 
as the preferred supplier by the State 
Government of New South Wales, 
Australia to implement a State-wide 
rostering project. The agreement is  
to provide our software to roster the 
90,000 nurses and other Healthcare 
professionals throughout the State of 
New South Wales. As a result, during 
the current fiscal year we will look to 
increase our investment in Asia Pacific 
and specifically Australia as we develop 
additional business in the region.
Markets 
We will continue to focus on our three 
chosen markets of Healthcare, Defence 
and Maritime. However we will 
continue to investigate additional 
market segments that may further 
strengthen the long term growth 
prospects of the business.
Healthcare 
Healthcare is our largest and fastest 
growing market sector, accounting for 
67% of total revenues in 2010. 
The recent Government White Paper, 
‘Liberating the NHS’, outlines planned 
reforms across the NHS, our domestic 
Healthcare market and offers additional 
opportunities to assist in the delivery of 
the benefits anticipated by the reforms. 
The creation of new structures, the 
requirement for the provision of 
aggregated and detailed data analysis 
fits with the vision we have been 
pursuing; that of providing a broader 
portfolio of complementary 
applications. 
Our e-Rostering and temporary staff 
applications (Healthroster and BSMS) 
are delivering referenceable results that 
show reductions in Healthcare costs 
and an improvement in both standards 
of care and patients outcomes. These 
are the key focal points of the White 
Paper and will remain at the heart of our 
commercial offering to our Healthcare 
customers. We anticipate that they  
will underpin prospects for further 
expansion in the years ahead. In 
addition, the Governance application 
acquired with Dynamic Change 
broadens our applications portfolio  
and offers further growth opportunities 
when considered in relation to the 
systems alignment, focus on patient 
outcomes and continued quality focus 
that is envisaged in the ‘Liberating the 
NHS’ document. We will continue to 
seek to expand our Healthcare portfolio 
into adjacent areas.
Case study:
“After an extensive evaluation we selected Allocate  
Software’s Maritime Suite because of their proven  
expertise and implementation experience in large,  
complex, global organisations.”
Len Webster, 
IMS Engagement Manager,  
HR Systems, Acergy 
A leader in Seabed-to-Surface  
Engineering and Construction 10
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s review continued
Business review
Our growing customer base will be fertile territory 
for us as we cross-sell our new applications
Building on our strong customer base
In the UK we have a substantial customer 
base, which extends to 353 NHS Trusts, 
and one private group. Worldwide we 
have 417 Healthcare customers.
It is our belief that we will continue to 
grow our markets within the NHS, as 
well as the private and international 
Healthcare sectors for our Health Suite 
applications. The acquisition of 
Dynamic Change broadens our 
application portfolio and affords a 
significant, opportunity for the cross- 
sell of both Allocate’s and Dynamic 
Change’s applications into the 
respective customer bases. 
At 31 May 2010, Healthroster was 
installed in 119 NHS Trusts in England 
and Wales. This is more than triple the 
number of customers we had two years 
ago (2008: 38) and it represents 29% of 
the total number of Acute, Mental Health 
and Primary Care Trusts in England  
and Wales. In addition, Healthroster is 
installed in four international Healthcare 
organisations. BSMS, our temporary 
staffing solution which empowers NHS 
Trusts by automating the planning of 
bank and agency staff and reporting 
across hospitals, is now installed in  
187 NHS Trusts. 
Defence 
The Defence sector is our heritage  
and continues to be a focus for the 
Company. During the year there were 
several significant developments in  
the use of MAPS Defence Suite by  
our British and overseas customers. 
Defence revenues were £4.5m, 
representing 20% of revenues in 2010.
Most significantly building on our work 
with the Royal Australian Navy, Allocate 
has been contracted to deliver Defence 
Suite capabilities across the entire 
Australian Army. The Australian Army 
agreement represents the biggest 
single contract award for our Defence 
applications.
Our longstanding relationship with the 
British Army continues to contribute 
to the overall success of the business 
and during the fiscal year the Royal 
Navy began using part of our 
applications suite. The Royal Fleet 
Auxiliary successfully migrated to  
the latest version of the Defence 
Suite and deployed a new application 
based on development work in our 
Healthcare vertical. 
In Europe, NATO has successfully 
deployed versions of the Allocate 
Defence Suite now operating in the  
J1 Human Resources Branch; the J5 
Force Generation cell, and the newly 
formed and mission critical Special 
Forces HQ. Recent enhancements to 
the NATO Special Forces installation 
have seen the application deployed 
in-theatre to Afghanistan.
Maritime 
Our Maritime activities continue to 
contribute to the overall success of 
the Company, and at £1.8m, they 
represented 8% of the total revenue  
in 2010. 
The world’s largest family entertainment 
company has gone live with its shore 
side deployment of the maritime 
application. We are actively engaged 
with this customer to deploy the 
application ship side on its fleet of 
cruise liners.
The new Onboard product is being 
shipped this month to CMA-CGM, who 
will be the first large scale users. It will 
be installed on their container fleet of 
some 100 vessels and will integrate with 
their existing MAPS Maritime Suite for 
crew scheduling.
Maersk Oil Qatar AS (“MOQ”) is 
expected to go live with our MAPS 
Maritime Suite early this current 
financial year. MOQ selected MAPS 
Maritime Suite to manage its offshore 
personnel across all production 
operations including platforms, drilling 
rigs, offshore accommodation vessels 
and storage vessels. The solution  
will improve effectiveness, streamline 
tasks and integrate personnel data to 
optimise performance of offshore 
operations ensuring compliance with 
health and safety policies. MAPS 
Maritime Suite will replace MOQ’s 
multiple sources of personnel 
movement information with a single 
integrated system for both shore  
side and offshore operations for the 
scheduling of personnel. It will allow 
managers to have a consolidated, 
real-time accurate view of personnel on 
board, accommodation and lifeboat 
availability on any offshore location.
Partnerships
Our partner strategy has delivered 
success with our major partners,  
PwC and CSC co-operating with  
the Company on two major contracts 
during the fiscal year. Both partners  
were independently chosen as the 
Systems Integrator of choice to  
support the deployment of our 
applications by the Department of 
Health in New South Wales and the 
Australian Army respectively.  Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
11
Building on our strong customer base
We anticipate that these partnerships 
will continue to deliver significant 
benefits to the Company over the 
coming years, helping us accelerate the 
broader deployment of our applications 
and assisting us to enter new 
geographical territories. 
We will continue to seek additional 
strategic partnerships that will enable  
us to deliver incremental value to  
our customers.
Development
To sustain our market leading position 
and to help ensure future growth 
prospects we continue to invest in the 
future. We embarked upon a project 
two years ago code named project 
“Columbus”. The project will see the 
complete redevelopment of our core 
applications from the ground up, 
delivering improved performance  
and enhanced functionality. 
The design architecture will also 
become the platform for all future 
applications development. Additionally, 
it will allow us to merge the applications 
we acquired with the purchase of  
Time Care with Healthroster to increase 
still further the functional advantage 
delivered to Healthcare customers 
around the world. Co-operative sharing 
of work with the Swedish development 
team has already begun.
The first application to be delivered  
on the new architecture will be 
Healthroster. An early alpha version  
of the application was recently 
demonstrated at the user group 
conference to tumultuous applause 
from the users. 
Our Defence suite will be the second 
application to benefit from the new 
architecture with development work due 
to start during the current fiscal year. 
Outlook
As we begin the new financial year, 
which will be my fourth year as CEO  
of Allocate Software, I am confident  
of our prospects. The breadth of the 
Company’s markets now provide a  
wide range of opportunities as well  
as reducing the Company’s historical 
dependence on a small number of  
high value transactions. Our growing 
customer base will be fertile territory for 
us as we cross-sell our new applications, 
both those developed within Allocate 
and those acquired.
We have experienced revenue growth 
of 39% CAGR for the last four years with 
trading profit growth of over 50% on the 
same basis during a period of sustained 
economic uncertainty. The opportunity 
for increasing sales in our Healthcare 
business and the continued 
engagement in the Defence and 
Maritime market sectors will combine  
to maintain our progress. 
We will continue to win new customers, 
broaden our relationships with existing 
customers and invest in our growth 
markets and applications whilst 
producing results that will grow 
shareholder value.
Ian Bowles
Chief Executive Officer
4 August 2010
Case study:
“We compared the data from one year before and one year 
after implementing Healthroster on the wards and we found 
we had already made savings of £600,000. With this in mind, 
we have projected savings of £1.2 million across all our 
wards. We believe the majority of these savings are due  
to Healthroster.”
Anne Bennett,  
Divisional Finance Manager,  
County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust
