 23786.04   Proof Three  25-03-15
Chairman’s Introduction
Overview
In the UK, the trading momentum 
established during the first half of the 
year continued through the second 
half with the improvement in organic 
growth supplemented by the fine full 
year performances from the businesses 
acquired during the previous year. Of 
particular satisfaction was the manner 
in which the UK businesses responded 
during the final quarter of the year, with 
like for like growth of 3.9%, delivering 
another strong performance on top of 
the impressive result achieved during 
the final quarter of 2013.
On the Continent, when measured 
in local currency, the revenue 
performance from our French business 
was slightly ahead of last year whilst our 
Dutch businesses achieved reasonable 
progress in what continues to be a 
difficult market. The businesses in both 
territories registered an improvement 
in underlying earnings. However, the 
market weakness evident in the first 
half in Switzerland continued during 
the second half resulting in a further 
reduction in annual revenue and profit. 
As was the case during the first half, 
the decline in the Swiss performance 
was sufficient to weaken the collective 
result from our Continental businesses 
which was down quite markedly on the 
previous year.
Whilst the result from our Continental 
businesses in recent years has been 
disappointing, the group’s overall 
result for the year, once again, 
provides further evidence in support 
of the board’s decision to commit to 
additional investment to expand and 
improve our facilities as exemplified 
by the project to extend the Coleshill 
national distribution hub which 
was completed and became fully 
operational in January 2014.
The commitment to investment, along 
with the decision to continue with our 
strategy and maintain our structure, 
has positioned the group in a place 
where it can quickly and profitably 
take advantage of an improvement in 
market activity.
Earnings and dividend
Earnings per share increased by 16.7% 
to 28.6p compared with last year’s 
underlying result of 24.5p mainly as a 
result of the group’s profit before tax 
of £30.3 million, improving by 14.6% on 
last year’s underlying profit before tax 
of £26.4 million.
The board is proposing to increase the 
final dividend by 15.5% from 10.65p to 
12.30p resulting in a total dividend for 
the year of 17.50p, which represents 
an increase of 14.4% on 2013. The final 
dividend, if approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”), will be paid on 1 July 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 5 June 2015.
Governance and board
We continue to promote a culture 
of openness and transparency 
and encourage participation and 
contribution from all our board 
members. The board recognises the 
value derived from good governance 
and the setting of high standards 
and the confidence this brings to 
our shareholders, management, 
employees, suppliers and customers.
Employees and shareholders
Once again, our employees’ 
attitude, determination and focused 
contribution have been pivotal to the 
continued success of the group. 
Thank you to all our employees across 
the group for their dedication and hard 
work and our shareholders for their 
insightful observations and continuing 
support.
Dick Peters
Chairman
5 March 2015 
It is pleasing to be able to report that the group  
has made good progress during the year,  
delivering a further increase in revenue and 
improvement in profitability.
04
