 23786.04   Proof Three  25-03-15
Chief Executive’s Review
Our strategy
The group continues to follow a 
strategy focused on developing its 
floorcovering distribution business in 
the UK and Continental Europe and 
improving the all round service offering 
it provides to its customers.
The group’s size and structure provides 
a unique competitive advantage 
allowing it to deliver a range of 
benefits, including continuous product 
development, wide product diversity, 
extensive marketing support and next 
day distribution services, all of which 
are aimed at supporting and enhancing 
its customers’ market position.
The development of the group’s overall 
business is achieved by operating each 
individual business on an autonomous 
basis and encouraging the managers 
of each individual business to develop 
their own individual trading style, 
albeit within a well developed and 
consistently applied framework of 
operational and financial control.
This diverse business structure, 
particularly in the UK, covering the 
retail and commercial sectors, gives 
the group substantial reach across 
floorcovering markets and provides 
suppliers with a flexible channel for the 
sales, marketing and distribution of 
their products.
In addition, the structure has allowed 
the group to be active with a wide 
and diverse product portfolio across 
a significant proportion of the 
floorcovering market and has, to a 
degree, insulated the business from the 
downside risk arising from contracting 
or static markets.
Each individual business is supported 
by the group’s commitment to 
continued investment in people, 
product, marketing, distribution 
facilities, service centres and IT. This 
structural investment, in conjunction 
with the development of the identity of 
each individual business, has enabled 
us to bring together the benefits of a 
market facing culture delivering the 
latest selling, marketing and product 
initiatives with a comprehensive and 
sophisticated logistics operation.
Ultimately, the total investment 
has underpinned the growth and 
performance of each business, thus 
enabling the group to establish itself 
as Europe’s leading floorcovering 
distributor.
Performance
One of the group’s key performance 
objectives is aimed at achieving growth 
in market share. We drive this growth 
by setting each of our individual 
businesses, in conjunction with the 
businesses’ management teams, an 
annual growth parameter, which is 
collectively set to outperform the 
anticipated underlying growth in the 
market.
Once again, it is pleasing to record that 
the growth in UK revenue during 2014, 
as has consistently been the case for a 
number of years, outperformed growth 
in the UK floorcovering market, with the 
like for like growth of 5.9% exceeding 
the estimated market growth of 2.4%.
The increases in like for like revenue 
derived from our residential and 
commercial product in the UK were 
broadly similar, with residential 
up by 5.8% on the previous year 
and commercial up by 6.2%. The 
revenue mix between residential and 
commercial floorcoverings in the UK 
has generally remained at the same 
level for a number of years and 2014 
maintained the balance at 68% and 
32% respectively.
On the Continent, adverse economic 
headwinds continue to influence 
performance and the overall trading 
result has registered further decline 
during the year. However, we still 
believe that more can be made of 
the opportunities to develop each 
individual business notwithstanding 
the market issues in each individual 
territory. On a brighter note, gross 
margins are being protected and costs 
managed diligently. As ever, additional 
revenue would transform the operating 
fortunes of these businesses.
During the year, we have maintained 
our investment in people, marketing, 
infrastructure and the promotion, 
support and development of each 
of our individual business identities. 
We continue to provide extensive 
marketing support to our customers 
and, through our well trained and 
knowledgeable sales teams, seek 
to gain an increasing share of their 
business. In addition, our teams are 
also focused on prospecting for new 
customers and business opportunities.
The group continues to follow a strategy focused on 
developing its floorcovering distribution business in 
the UK and continental Europe and improving the all 
round service offering it provides to its customers.
14 23786.04   Proof Three  25-03-15
Investments
Over the five-year period from 2010 to 
2014 we have used the group’s balance 
sheet strength, allied with its positive 
cash flow, to invest £36.2 million in 
property, plant and equipment, with 
a further £18.0 million expenditure 
forecast for 2015 and 2016. This level of 
capital expenditure has been running, 
on average, at a rate of 1.5 times 
depreciation.
The investment in infrastructure has 
been and is aimed at supporting our 
expansion plans, as illustrated by our 
intention to construct a new distribution 
facility in Ipswich, and enables us to 
manage our supply chain and inventory 
requirements more efficiently, as 
demonstrated by the recent extension 
to the Coleshill distribution hub.
Once the Ipswich distribution facility 
is fully operational, the group will 
have a well invested portfolio of four 
national distribution hubs and 14 
regional distribution centres in the UK 
as well as four distribution centres on 
the Continent. These facilities should 
be able to satisfy the group’s capacity 
requirements and growth expectations 
for a number of years and the 
requirement for further investment in 
additional or replacement distribution 
facilities ought to fall away. 
During recent years we have 
supplemented our distribution network 
in the UK with a number of service 
centres with the aim of improving 
customer service by making product 
more readily available. This type of 
investment is particularly helpful for 
customers who prefer to collect their 
product needs as opposed to relying 
on our delivery service.
During the year we continued to 
expand the number of service centres 
we operate across the UK and they now 
number 27. The provision of a customer 
collection point is also offered within 
our distribution centres, thereby 
bringing the number of collection 
points, or trade counters, in the UK 
to 42. There are still some locations 
where we do not currently have a 
presence and that would benefit from 
the opening of a service centre and we 
anticipate expanding our coverage in 
the future, subject to the availability of 
suitable sites.
Acquisitions
We intend to continue to utilise our 
capital resource to augment the 
group’s organic growth with further 
acquisitions. We have a history of 
quickly and successfully integrating 
small bolt-on acquisitions into our 
existing structure, achieving overhead 
synergies and an earnings enhancing 
performance.
During the year we completed the 
acquisition of two small bolt-on 
businesses, one of which, RPS, was 
transferred into our existing distribution 
facility in Nottingham and the other, 
Myttons, has provided us with the 
opportunity to establish a service 
centre in Norwich. During January 2015 
we added another business, Matty’s 
Wholesale Carpets, and integrated its 
operations into our distribution facility 
in Coleshill. Unlike a number of recent 
acquisitions where the businesses 
acquired have been losing market 
position, Matty’s Wholesale Carpets 
has been a very successful business 
and should prove to be immediately 
earnings enhancing.
The acquisitions completed during 
2013 are now operationally integrated 
and contributing an earnings enhancing 
performance to the group’s profitability.
Prospects
The momentum created through 
2014 has continued into January and 
February, where strong like for like 
growth in the corresponding period last 
year has been surpassed.
As we enter March, our UK businesses 
are well placed to take advantage 
of improving market conditions with 
a comprehensive array of product 
launches and marketing initiatives.
Whilst our businesses in Continental 
Europe continue to experience difficult 
markets, we are confident that the 
Group, overall, will achieve further 
progress during the year.
Tony Brewer
Group Chief Executive
5 March 2015 
15
STRA TEGIC REPORT
Headlam Group Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014
www.headlam.com
Stock code: Head
