 10
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review
chair Man ’s state Ment
terry Osborne Chairman
Since the end of the financial year, we have continued our 
strategy of supporting our strong organic growth with carefully 
selected acquisitions. In July we acquired RosterOn in Australia. 
This acquisition will both enable further growth in Australia and 
will also provide us with a larger establishment and broader 
customer base. Following this, in August we acquired Zircadian, 
which complements our HealthRoster application and will 
significantly enhance the product portfolio that we can bring  
to our customer base.
Our results for the 2011 financial year were outstanding and  
the outlook for the 2012 financial year is for continued profitable 
growth and success. 
I would like once more to thank our customers for their business 
and their partnership with Allocate and our Alliance partners for 
their continuing support. Finally, I would like to recognise and 
thank all of the Company’s growing number of employees in  
all parts of the world, for another year of hard work and 
commitment in support of the Company’s success.
terry Osborne
Chairman
5 September 2011
The 2011 financial year has been another outstanding year  
for Allocate. We have executed successfully across a much 
broader geographical footprint and have exceeded our 
expectations despite continuing difficult trading conditions.
As can be seen from our results, Allocate continues to expand 
its business operations and to generate increased profit and 
cash. The expansion of the Company’s activities across broader 
territories provides not only increased opportunities for future 
growth, but it also reduces the Company’s dependence upon 
the UK. We continue to expand in Australia both in Healthcare 
and in Defence. Our operations in Europe via Time Care 
continue to perform well. 
Richard Morgan-Evans has announced his decision to resign as 
a member of the Board of Directors. His last Board meeting will 
be the September 2011 Board meeting. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank Richard for his years of service to Allocate, 
not only serving as a member of the Board of Directors in recent 
years but also serving as Chief Executive Officer prior to that. 
During Richard’s tenure Allocate has grown significantly and has 
enjoyed considerable commercial and financial success. 
I was pleased to welcome Richard King to the Board earlier this 
year. Richard has been appointed Chair of the Audit Committee 
and he has also joined the Remuneration Committee. Richard 
joins us after a notable 35 year career at Ernst & Young where 
he most recently held the position of Deputy Managing Partner 
of Ernst & Young UK. Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
11
healthroster
Penang adventist hospital
the challenges
In response to ongoing financial pressures and clinical 
safety guidelines, Penang Adventist Hospital (“PAH”) 
needed to become more effective in the management 
of their staff. Following a thorough Roster Assessment 
carried out by Allocate, it identified: 
No ability to link patient demand to nursing levels  >
thereby enabling staffing levels to be objectively set 
Lack of bottom up, real time operational   >
information on the nursing workforce at ward  
level, resulting in ineffective decision-making 
regarding staff deployment 
A lack of objective creation and management of  >
substantive staff off-duties resulting in ineffective  
use of the nursing workforce 
Ineffective management of the nursing staff budget  >
the solution
The hospital replaced disparate paper-based systems 
with HealthRoster to drive out inefficiencies and 
significantly improve transparency of the workforce to 
achieve improved performance across all areas of the 
hospital. The solution has been implemented across all 
clinical units so far, and is now effectively working across 
the entire workforce process to deliver multiple benefits 
on a hospital-wide scale.
Key benefit
HealthRoster has enabled the hospital to use a more 
diverse staffing mix on the wards allowing them to 
reduce staffing costs whilst at the same time improving 
the delivery of care services and minimising risks by 
having more staff present on the wards.
“Our objective to deliver the best possible 
care is focused on making the best use of our 
available workforce in line with service needs. 
h ealthr oster has helped us to achieve this 
goal through significantly increased visibility 
of our workforce, allowing effective decisions 
regarding refocusing services to meet patient 
needs. in addition, staff morale has increased  
as a result of this solution and we are delivering 
better quality care through a more sophisticated 
approach to workforce management.
”
Ms c hen tuan h siu,
Director of n ursing, Penang Adventist Hospital
Business r eview Business o verview      Financial statements Corporate Governance
