 12
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review
chief executive’s revie W
Overview
2011 has been a year of great success for Allocate. We achieved 
our financial goals, we have continued to develop new and 
existing customer relationships, developed new geographical 
territories and greatly strengthened our management team. 
With considerable disruption in our markets, we have executed 
well delivering such strong 2011 results. We have made 
investments in external acquisitions, internal product 
development, customer support and IT infrastructure. These 
will provide the platform required to support future growth.
Business drivers
Allocate has grown revenue at a CAGR of 38% and profits  
at a CAGR of 51% over the past five years, the vast majority  
of that growth coming from Healthcare. Healthcare revenue 
represented 77% of total revenue in 2011 and will continue to 
provide the principal platform for growth in the future. Whilst 
headline growth percentages at these levels cannot be assured 
in upcoming years, Allocate now has a business model that will 
continue to deliver growth in both revenues and profits. 
What are the key drivers of growth and shareholder value  
in the future?
1. Overall. Allocate’s product portfolio targets the efficient 
deployment and working practices of the single biggest 
component of cost within Healthcare organisations 
worldwide – the cost of staff. The worldwide Healthcare 
market is very large providing Allocate with considerable 
opportunity for growth and expansion with both existing  
and new customer acquisition worldwide.
2. New customer acquisition. Over the past five years Allocate 
has grown its customer base from a few dozen customers to 
now over 740. These customers have been won in the UK, in 
Europe, in Australia, in the USA and in the Far East. All of 
these markets, especially the UK, offer considerable scope 
for further new customer wins. These markets are not only 
large; they are also addressable by Allocate as evidenced  
by the increasing number of customers that choose to invest 
in our applications. Over 135 NHS Trusts do not have an 
automated rostering solution such as HealthRoster and some 
57 have competitor products. The overall size of the 
Healthcare markets is such that our addressable market 
opportunities significantly exceed the size of our existing 
business. We will continue to acquire new customers in the 
Healthcare sector based on our current market momentum, 
our customer referenceability and our increasing levels  
of investment.
3. Customer satisfaction and new product development 
leading to increased recurring revenues. The vast majority 
of our 740 customers currently have only one Allocate 
product and we have a great opportunity to cross-sell  
further products to this established base. 
a. We will continue to develop products organically.  
In recent times we have successfully launched new 
products for the doctor rostering market as well as  
our e-expenses product.
b. We will continue to acquire new products for value in their 
own right but also for cross-sell into the customer base. 
c. Our continued focus on the satisfaction of our customers 
will lead to new products being sold on a permanent  
or term licence basis or increasingly on a subscription/
SaaS basis, such as HealthAssure acquired from  
Dynamic Change.
d. This will further increase the recurring revenue share of 
our business, plus, it will further increase our commitment 
to our customers and their commitment to us.
e. Finally, the support renewal income from this growing 
customer base continues to increase each year and is 
expected to continue to do so. This will have the effect  
of increasing the recurring revenue share of our total 
revenue which will provide us with better visibility  
and transparency.
4. Overseas territories. In 2011 £15.0m of revenue came  
from overseas customers, representing c50% of total revenue 
for the year. (2010: £7.8m representing 35% of total revenue). 
Australia has been the biggest driver of overseas revenue  
for Allocate and with the acquisition of RosterOn (announced 
July 2011) we now have a team of almost 30 staff in Australia 
and strong, developing customer relationships in both 
Healthcare and Defence. 
5. Mergers and Acquisitions. We have now successfully 
acquired six companies, of which four are UK based and  
two are overseas. The principal drivers for acquisitions  
are to acquire products to cross-sell into our growing 
customer base and also to accelerate the development of 
our business overseas. These acquisitions helped drive our 
headline revenue growth by 39% in 2010 and by 37% in 2011. 
However, organic growth was 21% in 2010 and 15% in 2011 
and adjusted EPS grew by 18% in 2010 and by 24% in 2011. 
The growth in organic revenues demonstrates the core 
strength of the Allocate business and the growth in  
adjusted EPS demonstrates the synergies that have been 
gained from the acquisitions. In future, we will continue to 
make acquisitions to produce this synergistic growth. 
ian Bowles Chief Executive Officer Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
13
Business r eview Business o verview      Financial statements Corporate Governance
Defencesuite
natO special forces
the requirement
Strategic success in NATO’s non Article V 
operations is underpinned by mentoring 
and military assistance programmes. 
Although there will always be a place for 
kinetic effect, in simple terms ‘meeting the 
indigenous population needs’ is a critical 
element in countering an insurgency. 
Historically Special Operations Forces 
(“SOF”) have been composed of 
specialists, with a typical team comprising 
a linguist, a signaller, a medic and a 
demolitions expert. Today this degree of 
specialisation is being taken to greater 
levels as the need for civil and military 
training assistance grows. Many of the 
skills required are still vested in a few 
individuals, therefore their selection, 
management and deployment requires 
detailed planning.
the solution
To increase the pool of SOF specialists 
requires a continual training programme 
that is flexible enough to accommodate 
the changing nature of operations and 
the increasingly sophisticated tasks being 
faced by NATO SOF. In this respect one of 
the facilities offered by the Defence Suite 
is a fully automated means of identifying 
the shortfalls, proposing the remedial 
action, allocating resources and then 
recording the results. The NATO Special 
Forces Operations Headquarters has 
assumed responsibility for the critical 
task of improving the range of trained 
personnel by identifying relevant national 
SOF courses and ensuring a timely, 
prioritised and equitable allocation of 
vacancies available to Allies.
“i wanted to tell you that your team 
has done a remarkable job and we 
are extremely pleased. f rankly 
speaking, i believe we now have 
a valuable mechanism to project 
combat power.
”
c ol stu Bradin, us Army, Chief of staff n ATo 
special o perations Forces Headquarters
MoD Copyright 14
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review
chief executive’s revie W CONTINUED
healthcare 
Healthcare remains our largest and fastest growing market 
sector, accounting for 77% of total revenues in 2011. 
In the UK we have a substantial customer base, which  
extends to 373 NHS Trusts, and worldwide we have  
450 Healthcare customers.
At 31 May 2011, HealthRoster was installed in 145 NHS Trusts  
in England and Wales. This represents 35% of the total number 
of Acute, Mental Health and Primary Care Trusts in England  
and Wales. In addition, HealthRoster is installed in eight 
international Healthcare organisations. HealthRoster BankStaff, 
our temporary staffing solution which empowers NHS Trusts  
by automating the planning of bank and agency staff and 
reporting across hospitals, is now installed in 179 NHS Trusts. 
Add to that the 102 customers who have HealthAssure, the 
former Dynamic Change product, and Allocate can justifiably 
claim to have significant coverage across the NHS. At the same 
time, there are many incremental opportunities for further 
cross-sell of some or all of the aforementioned products. 
We believe that we continue to have the best products on the 
market. By that, we mean products that have been developed 
with our customers, for our customers, over many years, to 
provide the most productive and most cost effective solution 
for staff management and corporate governance.
Finally, it should be noted that this year we also extended  
the HealthRoster contract of eight NHS Trusts creating an 
important and continuing stream of incremental revenue  
from our customer base.
In addition to success with our sales efforts, we have also 
invested significantly in new headcount and IT systems in the 
area of customer support. This we have done in conjunction 
with feedback from our colleagues on the Healthcare User 
Group and the results were demonstrated to hundreds of 
customers at the recent annual User Group meeting. As a  
result, over 100 customers are now logged on to the new 
system and it is receiving very positive feedback.
Dynamic Change’s products are now integrated in to 
the Allocate Product portfolio and have been renamed 
HealthAssure, which is currently used by over 100 healthcare 
organisations and is a fully managed online software-as-a-
service governance risk and compliance solution. The business 
of Dynamic Change suffered at the start of the year as a result 
of the Government changes in the NHS. However, the level of 
new business has now recovered, with more new customers 
signed in the second half of 2011 than were signed in the 
second half of 2010.
In August 2011 we acquired Zircadian, a UK based SaaS  
provider of software used to plan the rotas of junior doctors  
and consultants in the NHS. The business, which has 142 
healthcare customers, uses a SaaS delivery model with  
multiple year agreements. This acquisition will enhance revenue 
visibility due to the subscription nature of its business model.
Time Care has had a good year. The Swedish market has  
not been as badly affected as some others by the worldwide 
recession and the requirement to reduce spending. In the  
year, Time Care secured 16 new customers, being eight 
municipalities, three Healthcare and five non Healthcare.  
They now have customer relationships with some 62 hospitals 
and 135 of Sweden’s 290 municipalities, and in addition with  
a number of customers in Benelux and other Scandinavian 
territories. Time Care continues to progress well and meet 
performance expectations as a semi-autonomous business.
In Australia, our Healthcare business continues to develop  
very well. The previously announced State wide deal is now 
rolling out, we have recently announced that we have secured  
a new State wide agreement in Queensland for HealthRoster 
BankStaff, our temporary staffing solution and we have 
also announced, post 2011 year end, that we have acquired 
RosterOn, a highly regarded local vendor of Healthcare 
solutions that will accelerate our business there.
Finally, we were delighted to secure two more major US 
customers this year; Dean Healthcare Inc and Austin Radiology 
Labs. Both customers have HealthRoster and are in the process 
of deployment, continuing to meet expectations.
Defence 
The Defence sector has achieved a number of successes  
this year. Defence revenues were £4.1m, representing 14%  
of revenues in 2011.
The principal highlights include the following: 
Awarded the NATO APMS contract which has commenced •	
delivery. This contract will be multiyear rollout and although 
there was little revenue benefit in 2011, there will be much 
greater benefit in 2012. In essence, the agreement is for 
MAPS to become the HR system used by NATO in Brussels 
to manage their entire workforce.
The British Army agreed to a new support agreement and •	
also implemented a major extension to Collective and 
Individual Training modules.
In Australia, the Royal Australian Navy extended its licence •	
agreement with Allocate such that 100% of Navy employees 
are now supported by MAPS. In addition, the major 
Australian Army licence contract booked at the end of 2010 
has been largely executed in 2011. Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
15
healthassure
Barts & t he l ondon nhs trust 
the challenges
No sustained IT solution for  >
managing the Care Quality 
Commission (“CQC”) Compliance 
process. 
No integration and high degree of  >
duplication across other standards 
such as NHSLA Standards, the 
Board Assurance Framework 
(“BAF”) and corporate risk register. 
Barts & The London had a  >
reasonable accountability and 
assurance framework and 
standardised processes; but they 
were labour intensive and one 
person dependent.
Ensuring systems and processes  >
were ready to manage to CQC 
Registration process and ongoing 
compliance with the CQC Essential 
Standards of Quality & Safety. 
the solution
Internal audit to review  >
HealthAssure from Allocate 
Software. 
Implemented HealthAssure in  >
phases. Started with the old core 
standards. 
The next phase included ALE and  >
NHSLAAssure. 
Moved to CQCAssure (our  >
compliance platform, as part of the 
HealthAssure product suite) for 
management of all aspects of 
ongoing compliance with the CQC 
Essential Standards of Quality and 
Safety and the Hygiene Code.
“h ealtha ssure has saved 30% 
of the time associated with 
managing compliance.
”
 
Judith Bottriel Barts & The London 
n Hs Trust
Business r eview Business o verview      Financial statements Corporate Governance 16
Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review
chief executive’s revie W CONTINUED
Development
This year we extended the product to meet the differing needs 
of our international markets:
In Australia, a number of extensions to HealthRoster in •	
particular to support regulatory reporting requirements. 
Additionally, extensions to HealthRoster BankStaff to 
support Australian casual staff. 
In the United States, considerable development to support •	
Ambulatory Care working practises, driven by the Dean 
Healthcare project.
Improved our HealthRoster medics product, in particular  •	
to manage better the workflow of interdisciplinary teams  
(i.e. medics working with other staff groups like nursing).  
This is very important not only in the UK but also for our 
international clients like Dean Healthcare in the US.
We embraced the mobile revolution with our Employee •	
Online Mobile offering, allowing staff to view their rostering 
information from anywhere.
Lastly in Healthcare, we launched HealthRoster BankStaff.  •	
This product represents the best of breed integration of the 
temporary staffing products from the Key IT and Baum Hart 
Partners acquisitions along with Allocate’s own product. 
Over 80 Trusts have now committed to upgrade from their 
original product to HealthRoster BankStaff and satisfactory 
progress is being made with the program to implement the 
customer upgrades.
In Defence, the principle accomplishments included:
Australian Defence Force implementation went live with  •	
the base platform and this has been followed up with two 
enhancement releases to increase platform capability  
in the area of capability management. The enhancement 
programme is focused on extending capability management 
from the upfront decision making support and providing 
support for in year and post activity business processes.
NATO’s HR platform was updated to the latest version of  •	
the MAPS platform in preparation for the first release of the 
new APMS application provided by Allocate Software in 
partnership with Siemens.
Three years ago Allocate embarked upon a project code named 
“Columbus”. The project will see the complete redevelopment 
of our core applications from the ground up, delivering 
improved performance and enhanced functionality. The 
programme is nearing completion. The first product to be built 
on the new platform will be HealthRoster V10 which is also 
nearing completion. The platform, which brings new standards 
of usability, reliability and scalability also provides multi-lingual, 
hosting and SaaS capabilities.
Outlook
The last year for Allocate has been one of considerable success 
in the face of the largest reorganisation in the NHS. Our 
business has prospered and we have continued to secure new 
customers in the NHS and elsewhere as well as retaining and 
growing our existing customers. The markets into which we sell 
around the world show signs of recovery from the recent low 
points and I believe that we are past the worst.
I am confident that we will continue to grow in our principal 
markets this year. I believe that our growth will be led by not 
only our new product offerings, both those developed in-house 
as well as those acquired, but also because of the increased 
focus on customer satisfaction.
We have greatly strengthened the management team this year 
with new heads of Product Development, Marketing and 
Customer Support each of whom brings over 20 years of 
success in high tech and leading, multi-national companies.
Our financial model is now very strong. As at the year end,  
we had over £8m of net cash on the Balance Sheet, recurring 
revenues continue to rise, now 39% of total revenue affording 
much greater visibility into future revenue streams, and giving 
greater assurance as we consider investments both internally 
and externally.
We are now in the enviable position of having a great track 
record of performance, new products and technology to bring 
to our customers, a rapidly expanding footprint across a broad 
range of markets and a very secure Balance Sheet. I am very 
confident that Allocate will have a successful year in 2012.
ian Bowles
Chief Executive Officer
5 September 2011
