 Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
14
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Ian Bowles Chief Executive Officer
Overview
The 2012 financial year was another successful period for Allocate 
and we remain very positive about the future of the business. 
This year we completed two further acquisitions, we started the 
roll-out of HealthRoster V10, we launched HealthRoster in the 
Cloud and we made progress in all of our territories and vertical 
market sectors.
 
Allocate has grown revenue and EBITDA by a CAGR of 35% and 
41% respectively over the past five years. For a number of years, 
our growth was led predominantly by revenues earned from new 
NHS contracts, but over recent years we have driven a change in 
our business model and growth in recurring revenues is now a 
key driver.
 
As recently as 2009 for example, new licence revenue from NHS 
HealthRoster agreements represented approximately 43% of total 
revenue of £15.8m with recurring revenues being 21% of total 
revenue. In 2012 however, the new licence revenue from NHS 
customers is no more than 10% of total revenue of £36.6m, but 
with recurring revenues now representing 42% of total revenue.
 
This increase in recurring revenues, which is driven by cross sell 
from new products, both organically developed as well as 
acquired, has significantly improved the predictability of our 
revenue streams and the visibility of our profits and cash flows.
 
Business drivers and sources of growth
Overall, our value proposition to customers remains consistent. 
We offer customers superior applications and services that bring 
clear returns on investment (ROI) from operational efficiencies 
and reduced costs. In challenging economic times, demand for 
applications such as ours is stronger than at any other time in an 
economic cycle. Allocate solutions offer exactly what customers 
and prospective customers in our target markets need.
1. Customer Satisfaction:
 Is the number one priority for Allocate. We have invested 
considerably in people and infrastructure to support customer 
satisfaction over the past two years. We run regular surveys  
of CSAT, the results of which tell us that we are continuing  
to improve our service levels and that we have satisfied 
customers. Our renewal rates for support remain at or close  
to 100%.
 
2. New Customers:
 We will continue to seek and secure agreements with new 
customers in all sectors and all geographical territories 
believing there are significant opportunities for continued 
growth. In the UK, our success rate remains high, winning circa 
80% of all bids that we enter. In the UK almost one third of all 
NHS Trusts has yet to purchase an e-rostering system. Based 
on our prior performance and growing reputation, we are 
confident of securing a large number of these Trusts as new 
customers.
 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement  Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
15
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Case study
HealthAssure
Securing significant savings through compliance 
support
Overview
Largest dedicated women’s hospital in Europe used 
HealthAssure to support their NHSLA/CNST compliance, 
securing £3.5 million savings in NHS insurance premiums.
Liverpool Women’s Hospital uses HealthAssure software 
to support the Trust’s compliance with two of the health 
services major compliance regimes; NHS Litigation 
Authority (NHSLA) & Care Quality Commission. 
The NHSLA is the pooled risk insurance scheme operated for 
NHS Trusts by the NHS Litigation Authority, while the CQC 
authorises Trusts licence to operate services based on them 
meeting essential standards of quality.
 
 > The HealthAssure system is used to optimise governance, 
risk and compliance across the organisation
 > The Trust is on record as stating that HealthAssure played 
an important role in helping them structure their processes 
needed to achieve success in the assessment
 > The software was used by the assessors during the NHSLA 
& CNST inspection, the Trust’s approach received praise in 
the final report
 > They are one of only two NHS Trusts to maintain level three 
accreditation from the National Health Service Litigation 
Authority for six consecutive years and they are one of only 
four Trust holding the highest level accreditation (level 3) in 
both CNST & NHSLA
Receiving level three accreditation is not just important for 
Hospital finances, as the accreditation also demonstrates the 
Trust’s performance to the public, so they can always have 
confidence in the performance of the hospital – key as 
hospital’s try to balance savings with maintaining quality  
and patient experience. Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
16
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
3. New Products:
 We continue to invest heavily in research and development 
(R&D) and have announced a raft of new application modules 
and services which broaden our applications portfolio in 
Healthcare beyond e-rostering. The new applications include 
Clinical Activity Management (CAM), HealthRoster in the 
Cloud and a National Benchmarking capability. We have also 
released the next generation of HealthRoster V10. This version 
of HealthRoster is of great importance to Allocate because  
it brings many new and important areas of functionality and 
enhanced performance that will open up new markets and 
opportunities, both in the UK and also overseas. Our business 
in Europe has already developed well through Time Care and 
now the launch of V10 will enable us to accelerate our entry 
into new territories. The Zircadian products, e-job plan and  
the Consultants portal are being integrated with the Allocate 
Medics application and we are now taking this unique solution 
to market.
 
4. Business Model:
 Allocate continues to drive change in its business model towards 
one based upon recurring revenues. All new products developed 
or acquired will be offered on licencing models that are flexible 
and recurring to support the model. In addition, the NHS 
HealthRoster term licence renewal cycle has now begun.  
We have so far renewed 100% of the HealthRoster licences  
that have come up for renewal. We are confident that we will 
continue to secure a very high proportion of the future renewals.
5. Acquisitions:
 Acquisitions remain part of the growth strategy. We will 
continue to seek appropriately priced assets that will bring 
growth to the solution set that we offer to our customers.  
We now have a very significant customer base and cross sell 
opportunities are an important element of our growth. By way 
of example, we have now cross sold either an Allocate or a 
Zircadian product between 27 of the customers in the ten 
months since Zircadian were acquired. RealTime Health, our 
most recent acquisition, once integrated into our applications 
portfolio, has the potential to drive revenues of a similar scale 
to e-rostering, with significant ROI for customers.
 
Healthcare – UK
2012 was a year of continued success in the Healthcare market 
led by further growth within the UK NHS, with the acquisition of 
Zircadian continuing the expansion of our Healthcare product 
portfolio into the medical staffing arena. The release of 
HealthRoster V10, our completely web based rostering product 
which enables Cloud based delivery and multi-lingual support, 
will enable us to target further growth opportunities.
 
We continued to grow our core NHS rostering market where  
the Company’s success rate in competitive tenders of rostering 
solutions was very significant. The strong position we now hold 
within the NHS means that we provide at least one software 
product to over 85% of NHS Trusts. Ensuring that we continue to 
deliver proven benefits to our Healthcare customer base creates 
a significant ongoing opportunity to deliver further products and 
secure additional revenue within the Healthcare market. At our 
most recent User Group there were over 275 attendees from 100 
NHS Trusts, as well as the independent sector, discussing the 
benefits they have achieved and sharing best practice.
 
The acquisition of Zircadian is a significant event in the 
development of our Healthcare solutions. Firstly, we now have 
medical staff as part of the team; this greatly expands our 
product portfolio and experience in the management of the 
medical workforce. Secondly, it broadens our solutions into the 
area of clinical and medical activity planning. The integration  
of medical workforce planning managed within the Zircadian 
product set and operational rostering within HealthRoster offers 
enormous opportunities and benefits for our customers.  
This natural alignment of solutions has already led to additional 
sales within the customer base which would not have been 
realised otherwise. The significant benefit to customers, that 
being of increased ROI due to integration of the solutions,  
will also help drive further cross sell opportunities in the future.
 
Allocate also published the first in a series of thought leadership 
pieces aimed at NHS executive and specialist teams. The first 
paper titled ‘Junior Doctor Rota Review’ has helped position 
Allocate as a thought leader and specialists in medical workforce 
management. It demonstrates that we are working with a 
number of Trusts to identify large scale savings by helping the 
reconfiguration of the medical workforce.
  Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
17
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
This year the integration of HealthRoster, Zircadian planning 
products and HealthAssure has created a Healthcare suite of 
products that moves Allocate into all areas of a Trust’s 
operations spanning activity planning, workforce management, 
financial control and clinical governance/patient outcomes.  
This aligns the Company to the current focus within Healthcare 
to deliver higher quality care within an increasingly constrained 
financial regime.
 
Allocate also initiated an Executive Advisory Council that will 
meet three to four times a year to collaborate with and advise 
Allocate on market changes and healthcare challenges.  
The Advisory Council is made up of a broad range of executives  
from the NHS and will provide a forum to test ideas and explore 
value and innovation of future strategy and market engagement. 
The forum will keep Allocate aligned to the issues affecting 
executives and their organisations. The forum will also be 
publishing white papers based on agreed topic areas affecting 
the healthcare market place.
 
The successful release of our flagship rostering product 
HealthRoster V10 within a completely rearchitected framework 
was also achieved. V10 is simpler, faster and more accessible 
than all of its predecessors. HealthRoster V10 is web based, 
offering the ability to deliver via the Cloud, reducing the time  
to deploy and allowing ease of purchase for our customers.  
In addition, the ability of V10 to support multiple languages  
will accelerate our sales into non-English speaking countries. 
 
Healthcare – Overseas
Overseas, we achieved significant success in a number of areas: 
 
RosterOn, our acquisition in Australia has had a challenging year 
post acquisition. However, we have already integrated their 
awards engine technology with the Allocate HealthRoster 
product and this integrated solution is already being favourably 
received by the market.
 
Time Care had another successful year. The political situation in 
Sweden is changing and many Swedish municipalities now have 
to offer their employees the right to full time employment. This 
we believe will lead to an ongoing demand for our consultancy 
services in that field. The localisation of HealthRoster V10 is most 
important and it will be given high priority. The response has 
been very positive from the clients who have been introduced  
to the software. We have great expectations from the Swedish 
private sector and there is a strong trend among customers and 
prospects to improve their workforce management.
 
Time Care has also signed an important agreement with Aditro, 
the leading Scandinavian based provider of solutions for human 
resources management. This partnership will provide us with 
the opportunity to access their customer base containing some 
12,000 customers in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark,  
in both public and private sectors. The partnership with Aditro 
includes not only sales and marketing elements but also 
development of an interface between their products and ours.
 
The Company’s achievement in securing the countrywide 
HealthRoster contract in Brunei further reinforces our presence 
in overseas markets. The securing of this contract has led to 
several partner opportunities arising which alongside V10 
position the Company to expand into other territories.
 
Allocate currently work with over 350 healthcare organisations in 
11 countries. Our strong presence within the Healthcare market 
offers the opportunity to build upon our significant position, 
expanding our revenue via new customers and cross sales of new 
solutions to deliver continued growth. Our strategy is to position 
Allocate as a solution provider to healthcare organisations that is 
integral to their operations from activity planning, operational 
management through to the measurement of patient outcomes.
 
Defence
The Defence sector had a record year, delivering revenues of 
£7.6m (2011: £4.1m).
 
The principal accomplishments include:
 > Securing a multi-million pound licence contract with the 
Australian Defence Forces extending the use of DefenceSuite 
across Army, Navy and civilians under military control
 > Substantial additional services contract extension wins with 
the Royal Australian Navy, as part of their New Generation 
Navy programme
 > Two new services contract wins in NATO within their Force 
Operations Group and Special Forces HQ
 > The extension of the UK Army contract to 2014
  Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
18
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Research and Development
Our continued investment in R&D has resulted in the release  
of HealthRoster V10, our Cloud Offering as well as enhanced 
versions of HealthAssure and the integration of core applications 
with the acquired applications from both Zircadian and 
RosterOn.
 
Over the next period we will see further integration of 
applications and the delivery of new modules such as CAM and 
further enhancements to our Cloud based applications portfolio.
 
All of our software and services offerings are designed and 
developed in close co-operation with our customers to ensure 
they meet current and future needs.
 
Organisation
The continued success of Allocate depends on our people; their 
ideas, commitment and energy drive our continuing success.
 
We have now grown to over 300 employees from 103 four years 
ago. We also have over 20% of our employees located overseas 
in Sweden, Australia, America and Malaysia.
 
We are embarking upon a number of programmes to help our 
employees grow with Allocate, to maintain their focus and to 
support the realisation of the Company’s objectives through 
their individual achievements.
 
We run an annual employee survey, which this year showed  
very positive employee satisfaction ratings. We are increasing 
our investment in employee training, both functional and 
management, we are improving our benefits packages with  
the help of a newly appointed supplier. We are increasing the 
number of promotion/rotational opportunities available to 
employees, both in the UK and overseas.
 
Outlook
The outlook for Allocate Software is positive and I am confident 
our growth will continue.
 
By working in close co-operation with our customers we will 
continue to anticipate demand for new solutions that will support 
their objectives and deliver superior ROI. Our solutions are 
perfectly suited to the economic challenges currently faced by 
our customers. Our products have shown on numerous 
occasions that they bring significant cost reductions and 
improvements in workforce efficiency.
 
The breadth and depth of our applications portfolio which  
now includes a Cloud offering for all of the core applications in 
healthcare, as well as our ability to localise HealthRoster into any 
language will create new and exciting opportunities, for the 
Company and our customers.
 
RealTime Health, our most recent acquisition, will enable our 
Healthcare customers to drive further efficiencies as we combine 
CAM, Staff Deployment and patient flow capabilities into an 
integrated, holistic solution.
 
Our track record of the past six years vindicates our belief that 
we are uniquely equipped to help our current and prospective 
customers achieve their objectives. We offer proven products 
that deliver significant improvements in efficiency and 
demonstrable ROI.
 
Allocate is now a substantial enterprise with an enviable track 
record of customer acquisition, market development and new 
product realisation.
 
I would like to add my own thanks to our team, partners and 
especially our customers for their ongoing support.
 
Ian Bowles
Chief Executive Officer
30 July 2012 Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
19
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Case study
HealthRoster
Generating financial savings by using staff more 
effectively
Overview
Allocating nursing and medical staff to shifts is a challenging 
task given the multiple, often conflicting priorities of ensuring 
that clinical governance requirements are met, best care is 
provided, and staff requests are accommodated. 
Further, it is well known that staff costs account for up to 75% 
of a healthcare organisation’s running costs. So how the time of 
those staff is managed can not only have an impact on quality 
of care, it can also significantly impact expenditure.
Ramsay Health Care UK, a leading healthcare provider 
with an excellent track record in providing the very 
highest level of care, has over the last four years invested 
over £125m specifically to maintain this standard, 
improving facilities and enhancing access  
to high quality care.
A key part of this investment has involved implementing an 
e-rostering system to more effectively and efficiently manage 
the deployment of their 4,000 nurses, healthcare 
professionals and support staff across 37 separate sites. 
Ramsay Health Care selected Allocate’s e-rostering solution, 
HealthRoster. Managers at Ramsay will use HealthRoster to 
more quickly highlight any gaps in cover and skill mix to ensure 
the right mix of clinical staff are on duty day or night. In 
addition, e-rostering will help control demand for temporary 
staff, optimise the use of permanent staff, and reduce 
overhead costs through integration with payroll systems.
Part of the implementation has involved a rostering 
assessment in a number of areas, offering a wide selection  
of practice areas and rosters. “We asked, ‘if we had an 
electronic system, instead of a paper-based system how 
could we roster differently? How could we utilise staff better 
and what savings could be made?” explains Julie Fraser, 
manager of the e-rostering project. 
Through e-rostering, managers can now prepare four week 
rosters six weeks in advance. Staff can request shifts up to a 
cut-off point. After this, the department manager can set the 
system to create an automatic roster, based on requests, shift 
patterns and the rules set within the system. “This will 
significantly improve the process of managing our staff, 
particularly with payroll as it now means staff don’t have to 
keep timesheets.” Explains Ms Fraser.
E-rostering will also generate financial savings. Ms Fraser  
is confident about savings because the emphasis has been  
to prevent requests for staff going to agencies by using 
contracted hours to the full, minimising absences and using 
the bank where necessary. 
The organisation is still at an early stage of their 
implementation. Yet the change that has already been 
recognised has been significant and sends a signal as to the 
potential that this new approach to managing staff has to 
offer. Ms Fraser sums up; “Ultimately this is about ensuring 
that our teams can work to the best of their ability and give 
patients the very best levels of care. Through e-rostering I 
truly believe that we have the tool to not only uphold our 
excellent record, but also to achieve more.”
