 Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
12
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Terry Osborne Chairman
Chairman’s statement
The 2012 financial year was a strong year for Allocate. We 
made two further acquisitions, begun the roll-out of a major 
product upgrade cycle that will open new markets for us and 
we exceeded City expectations.
 
The Company was successful in all of its major markets in 2012. 
The UK Healthcare business prospered driven by strong 
execution and the continuing productivity demands resulting 
from the NHS restructuring process. The business in Australia 
continued to progress with the acquisition of RosterOn. Time 
Care in Sweden again had a good year and the Defence team 
had their best ever year also securing their largest ever licencing 
contract in Australia.
 
The Company achieved substantial revenue and profit growth  
for the sixth year in succession. Our Company’s balance sheet 
continues to be secure with another year of high profit to cash 
conversion. The financing of our acquisitions to date remains 
comfortably within our balance sheet’s funding capacity.
 
Since the end of the financial year, we have continued our 
strategy of complementing our strong organic growth with 
carefully selected acquisitions. On 30 July 2012, we acquired 
RealTime Health Limited, a UK supplier of patient flow 
management software to the NHS. This is a vitally important 
application area and we expect the integration of RealTime 
Health with our existing product portfolio to provide significant 
operating and cost savings benefits for our customers. It will 
open up major new growth opportunities for our next  
strategic period.
 
I would like once more to thank our customers for their business 
and their partnership with Allocate and our Alliance partners  
for their continuing support. Finally, I would like to recognise  
and thank all of the Company’s growing number of employees  
in all parts of the world, for another year of hard work and 
commitment in support of the Company’s success.
 
As an indication of our confidence in the business, the Directors 
are pleased to propose a dividend in respect of the full financial 
year of 1.2p per share, payable on 28 November 2012 to 
shareholders on the register on 2 November 2012.
 
I would like to thank Mark Loveland, who is stepping down from 
the Board, for his seven years of exceptional service to our Board 
and the Company. We wish him well for the future, and a speedy 
return to full health.
 
We remain confident of our prospects for the 2013 financial year, 
and of the fundamental strength of the business.
 
 
Terry Osborne
Chairman
30 July 2012 Allocate Software plc 
Annual Report 2012
13
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Case study
HealthRoster
Enabling the Trust to do more with the resources 
they have
Overview
BHRUT, one of the largest trusts in England, has implemented 
HealthRoster specifically to redesign services so that medical 
staff are managed more efficiently, yet more effectively to 
deliver a better quality of care. 
Originally implemented to help the Trust achieve a 100% 
European Working Time Directive (EWTD) compliancy rating, 
through HealthRoster BHRUT has also realised significant 
efficiency savings and benefits with the management of 
medical rotas to achieve a far more patient-focused approach 
to the delivery of care. 
Barking, Havering and Redbridge University Hospitals 
NHS Trust (BHRUT) use HealthRoster for Junior Doctors 
and Medical Staff to redesign services enabling greater 
efficiency, better care and maintaining 100% compliancy. 
The new approach to managing the rotas of medical staff  
has delivered real savings and benefits. Gill Perry, Associate 
Director of Human Resources, sums this up; “HealthRoster has 
not only saved us time it has enabled us to make objective 
decisions about staffing and refocus our delivery of services  
to meet patient needs better.”
The collaboration continues, Leigh Malyon, E-Rostering  
Head of Service, explains; “The scale of the project has 
changed massively – we intended to roll out HealthRoster 
only to junior doctors, but due to the success of this we have 
now rolled out to all grades of staff including consultants 
across all areas, including obstetricians and gynaecologists, 
as well as theatres.”
Following the success of this project, the Trust has extended 
their investment to include all nursing groups to give them 
one view of the clinical/medical workforce. This has enabled 
the Trust to utilise all staff across the Trust to the fullest; 
reducing dependency on temporary staffing, eradicating 
wasteful and inefficient processes and achieving truly 
patient-centred care. 
In addition the Trust have most recently selected e-Jobplan, 
e-Rota and e-Monitor solutions to further improve the 
management of their medical workforce by more closely 
aligning resources and budget to ensure that the agreed 
service plan is delivered to time, in line with budget and to 
the highest possible service level. 
Commenting on the collaboration, Paul Scandrett, Allocate 
Software’s Director of Healthcare says, “We have been 
working closely with BHRUT for the duration of their project. 
They are an excellent site who have been quite revolutionary 
in their approach to management of their workforce, 
particularly on the side of the medical workforce which is an 
incredibly complex and challenging area for trusts to manage. 
We have worked together to help them achieve true service 
redesign across all levels and enabling them to deliver a truly 
integrated and first rate service.”
