 4
Terry Osborne Chairman
“I am very proud of what 
Allocate and the team have 
achieved and am confident in 
their ability to continue to grow 
in the future.”
I am pleased to report that our 2014 financial year 
exceeded City expectations for revenue, EBITDA and cash. 
Our response to the safe staffing agenda of the NHS has 
been met very enthusiastically, we more than doubled 
the number of Cloud customers and we grew recurring 
revenues significantly as we continued to drive the 
evolution of the Company’ s business model.
The strength of Allocate can be seen in the Statement of 
Financial Position which shows this year’ s repayment of all 
of the Company’ s debt, the continuing increase in deferred 
revenue, well-managed working capital and the record 
cash balance of £13.7m.
I was delighted to welcome to the Board Dr Graham 
Rich who joined us in December 2013. Dr Rich is an 
experienced former chief executive of NHS hospitals 
including a Foundation Trust and a primary care trust  
(PCT) as well as formerly holding a position as Director  
of Commissioning. He has also previously worked on 
national policy formulation and implementation at the 
Department of Health. He has particular interest in  
patient empowerment, the use of IT in healthcare, 
improved transparency of outcomes and patient 
satisfaction to drive performance improvement.
In February, Chris Gale, our Chief Financial Officer, 
announced his intention to step down from his post to 
pursue other interests. On behalf of the Board, I want to 
thank Chris for his considerable contribution to Allocate’ s 
growth and success over the last four and a half years. 
During his tenure as CFO the Company has made 
Chairman’s statement
significant changes which greatly strengthened its business 
model and much improved its business systems and IT 
infrastructure. Chris leaves behind him a very competent 
team and the Board is in advanced discussions with several 
candidates to fill the CFO role. Allocate’ s excellent financial 
health owes much to Chris and we all wish him well for  
the future.
This will also be my last Chairman’ s Statement as, given  
my impending retirement, I will be stepping down from  
the Board later in 2014. I joined as the Company’ s 
Chairman in October 2005 and in that near 10-year 
period have seen the transformation of Allocate from 
a loss-making company focused on the Maritime and 
Defence sectors with revenues of £4 million to a profitable, 
international business which has also successfully 
developed a market-leading position in the Healthcare 
industry. I am very proud of what Allocate and the team 
have achieved and am confident in their ability to continue 
to grow in the future.
I would like once more to thank Allocate’ s customers 
for their partnership and business. Finally, I would like 
to recognise and thank all of the Company’ s employees 
throughout the world for another year of hard work and 
commitment in support of the Company’ s success.
As an indication of our confidence in the business, the 
Directors are pleased to propose a dividend in respect  
of the full financial year of 1.45 pence per share. 
We remain confident of our prospects for the  
2015 financial year, and of the fundamental strength  
of the business.
Terry Osborne
Chairman
18 July 2014 Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
5
Overview
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Company position and strengths
Understanding why using the Allocate Cloud for HealthRoster 
has made both business sense and user sense
Leading provider of Healthcare rostering 
software to the UK, Australian and 
Nordic markets
 – Comprehensive and complementary product suite
 – Strong existing customer base around HealthRoster
Positive market dynamics – Growing patient demand in healthcare sector 
drives need for improved operational efficiency
 – Technology change driving demand for cloud 
based solution
Powerful franchise in workforce 
optimisation
 – Strong market position with the NHS with track 
record of displacing competition
 – High level of customer retention
Continuous product innovation driving 
growth
 – Leveraging position as trusted advisor to upsell 
additional product (SafeCare, HealthMedics, 
HealthAssure and Patient Flow)
 – Improved delivery platforms (Allocate V10;  
the Allocate Cloud)
Management team with experience and 
ability to scale the business
 – Significant software and healthcare experience
 – Proven track record of driving growth, both organic 
and through acquisition
Robust financial profile – Improving recurring revenue profile and operating 
margin expansion
 – R&D and acquisition investment in place to support 
future growth
Sheffield Teaching Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust took the decision 
to move its e-Rostering software, 
HealthRoster to the Allocate Cloud 
allowing them to avoid new IT 
infrastructure costs. The following 
case study outlines the rationale for 
the decision and the benefits twelve 
months on.
The trust did a complete options 
appraisal, reviewing external hosting 
via a third party hosting provider as 
well as the Allocate Cloud. 
There was a straightforward cost 
benefit in selecting the Allocate 
Cloud but in addition to the cost 
benefit, the appraisal uncovered 
additional advantages of running 
HealthRoster V10 on the Allocate 
Cloud including having a single point 
of accountability for service delivery 
across both the software and the 
infrastructure. 
Benefits
• More cost effective than in-house 
(Circa £200k) or outsource hosting 
(+£35k)
• Smooth migration from V9.5 to V10
• Single supplier for all aspects of 
service 
• Exceptional resilience and disaster 
recovery included
• Future-proofed infrastructure
• Easy home access, unleashing the 
power of HealthRoster for users
• Hassle-free upgrades to software – 
very fast and regular
“One year on the benefits of 
running HealthRoster V10 on 
the Allocate Cloud have been 
greater than those articulated 
in the Cloud business case, for 
example, the Cloud support is 
excellent and the speed at which 
Allocate can upgrade our system 
with new functionality has made 
a real impact, particularly when 
they released a update with a new 
report format to help Trusts meet 
the national safe staffing report 
requirements, without additional 
effort from us Allocate were able to 
update our system and make this 
available to us within 24 hours of 
release.” 
Says Rachel Bird, e-Rostering project 
manager.
