 6
“We have delivered a very  
strong performance in 2014 with 
growth in our core product areas 
and in all major geographies.”
Overview
2014 was another very successful year for Allocate in which 
we grew worldwide revenue by 8% to £40.0m organically. 
Healthcare revenue grew by 18% to £34.7m, again 
organically, contributing 87% of total revenue. EBITDA 
rose to £6.9m (2013: £4.8m). Profit before tax rose to £2.9m 
(2013: loss £2.4m).
Our business model continues to evolve with recurring 
revenue at 47% of total revenue and repeatable revenue 
this year reaching 66% of total revenue. Repeatable 
revenue is defined as recurring revenue plus term licence 
revenue. This high level of repeatability significantly 
enhances the Company’ s visibility and predictability of 
future revenue. 
Allocate’ s offering is closely aligned with the needs of the 
NHS and the broader healthcare community. As has been 
widely reported and outlined in the Government’ s Quality, 
Innovation, Productivity and Performance initiative (QIPP), 
the rising demand for care, flat or reducing budgets and 
the ongoing upward pressure on costs has meant that the 
NHS in England has been tasked with finding large year-
on-year efficiency savings. The savings target that has been 
identified equates to every Trust making 4% per annum 
efficiency gains, which is part of the c. £30 billion funding 
gap, whilst at the same time improving care. Allocate has 
many success stories where its products have enabled 
Trusts to make significant savings.
For the second year running, in June 2014, Allocate was 
a key supporter of the NHS Confederation’ s Annual 
Conference and Exhibition (CONFED). This event is the 
largest and most influential meeting of healthcare leaders, 
decision-makers, partners and stakeholders. This year as 
well as supporting the event, Allocate provided speakers, 
with subject matter expertise and hosted the workshop 
‘Delivering safe and sustainable services 24×7 by aligning 
the workforce to patient need and activity’.
Our suite of products is designed to help all Healthcare 
providers to deliver effective care whilst ensuring the 
optimal use of resources. In particular NHS Trusts who are 
our largest community of customers. The high levels of 
engagement that we receive at key industry conferences 
like CONFED and the Foundation Trust Conference 
suggests that Allocate’ s healthcare offerings are well 
positioned to support further growth in our domestic and 
overseas markets.
 
Healthcare - UK
• UK Healthcare revenue up 19% to £22.5 million
• Repeatable revenue 81% of UK Health revenue
• Further improved competitive position with new 
HealthRoster contracts win rate over 90%
• Record number of new and renewal HealthRoster 
agreements signed, 92% on a term-licence basis
• Launch of SafeCare, our new safe staffing application 
matching patient demand to available staff skills
Recurring revenue rose to £10.5m and repeatable revenue 
rose to £18.3m which is 81% of UK Health revenue (2013: 
£14.9m and 73%). T otal UK Healthcare bookings were 
£30.0m, exceeding revenue of £22.5m by £7.5m. These 
bookings demonstrate the strength of Allocate’ s depth 
of customer engagement and provide increased levels of 
forward visibility. 
Ian Bowles Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s report and  
business review Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
7
Overview
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Delivering Safe Staffing levels using SafeCare;  
the next step for e-Rostering in Healthcare
Northern Devon Healthcare NHS Trust has used HealthRoster for 8 years to plan and 
roster staff across their sites, benefiting from visibility and control of the workforce. 
However, until recently they have not been able to link that workforce information to the 
actual patient numbers and needs on a shift. 
 
This is not an uncommon problem across all publically funded healthcare globally; the 
result can be shifts with too few or too many staff resulting in missed care, increased 
temporary staff use and in worst case scenarios actual patient harm. The NHS in England 
is changing this by focusing on safe staffing levels and introducing new guidelines that 
ask organisations to plan their workforce levels around the needs of the patients.
Northern Devon Healthcare NHS Trust are one of a number of Trusts leading the way 
by implementing Allocate Software’s SafeCare and SafeCare Mobile software alongside 
their existing HealthRoster solution.
SafeCare brings the patient numbers and need data together with the staffing data in 
HealthRoster allowing the trusts to match patient demand with staff availability.
The solution is now live across ten wards and already Northern Devon is benefiting from 
a far greater insight using mobile devices on wards that is allowing them to facilitate 
redeployment of staff. They are in the process of replacing paper-based processes used 
to capture patient need information and now have a live view of the number of staff 
available versus the patient need on each ward.
Caroline Raby, e-Roster Operational Lead says, “SafeCare is the natural next step for 
HealthRoster customers. It means it will be easier to meet a national safe staffing 
requirement which is important but it also means organisations will be able to move 
to more dynamic rosters, less paper and they will have a better understanding of 
the activity and resource required to deliver care. The matrons and ward managers 
really love it and ultimately it will help us ensure and demonstrate that we are 
getting staffing levels right for patients.”
This year has seen a major focus on safe 
staffing throughout the NHS as a result of the 
Francis Report and subsequent initiatives by 
the Department of Health and NHS England 
to provide transparent staffing data.
HealthRoster, Allocate’ s flagship solution, 
remains the UK’ s most widely-used e-rostering 
solution and in 2014 we improved further 
HeathRoster’ s competitive position. In 
addition to securing agreements with 16 new 
customers, the Company’ s win rate was over 
90%, which is higher than in prior years. 
The continued adoption of HealthRoster by 
NHS Trusts in both England and Scotland 
positions Allocate strongly to introduce other 
applications to customers in the future.
The number of NHS Trusts utilising 
HealthRoster has now reached 165 (out 
of 170 total UK HealthRoster customers), 
representing 61% of the 272 Trusts at the 
year-end. The Company secured its first 
HealthRoster customer in Scotland. This 
agreement was signed under a new 
framework agreement which will enable the 
other 11 Scottish Health Boards to contract 
with Allocate under the same framework, 
terms and conditions.
Significantly, six Trusts moved away from 
competitive solutions to HealthRoster, leaving 
41 Trusts with competitive products. There are 
still 61 Trusts that do not use any electronic 
rostering system. 
The Company also secured 36 HealthRoster 
renewals in 2014 bringing the total number 
renewed to date to 69, continuing the 
previously reported 100% success rate. Of 
the 36 renewals, 32 were contracted on an 
average four to five-year-term licence basis. 
All were renewed at average values consistent 
with those of the original agreements. 
In 2014 therefore, the Company secured a 
total of 52 new and renewal HealthRoster 
agreements, a record performance. Of these, 
48 or 92% were secured on a term licence 
basis, versus an average of 70% in the past, 
which significantly improves the Company’ s 
visibility of future, repeatable revenue streams.  8
Chief Executive Officer’s report and  
business review continued
During the year we released the first product in our 
SafeCare application which is a significant development 
for our customers and ultimately patients. The application 
focuses on meeting the safe staffing challenge post 
the Francis Report by matching patient demand to the 
available staff. In 2014, we secured 33 contracts (37 to 
date) for SafeCare Ward, the first product to be shipped 
within our SafeCare application, significantly exceeding 
management expectations. SafeCare Ward will continue 
to be shipped in 2015 but it will be supplemented by the 
recently announced SafeCare Live and SafeCare Assure, 
the Cloud delivered service that will enable Trusts to 
match patient demand against staffing resources in real 
time, by using a wide range of hand-held devices within a 
Trust, ensuring staff are correctly deployed to meet patient 
needs. The level of customer engagement with SafeCare at 
the close of 2014 was significant.
The performance of the Allocate Cloud exceeded 
management expectations in 2014 with 39 new contracts 
closed, bringing the cumulative number to 63. Nine of 
the 16 new HealthRoster agreements secured in 2014 also 
included an agreement for Cloud. Of the 39 new contracts 
closed, nine were contracted with new HealthRoster 
customers and 16 with HealthRoster renewals. The Annual 
Contract Value (ACV) of Cloud contracts rose over 2013, 
driven by average contract size. The Cloud pipeline on 
closing the year stood at over 70 prospects with a bookings 
value close to £10.0m.
The performance of our Medics application met overall 
management expectations in 2014, with 12 new customers 
secured. The ACV of these agreements remains at a level 
consistent with 2013.
HealthAssure sales this year remain short of expectations 
but nevertheless eight new agreements were secured. 
Sales of the Patient Flow and Emergency Department 
product lines, which were acquired with Real Time, remain 
slower than expected and the Company has not yet 
secured a new customer with these applications since 
the acquisition. Whilst we have seen and continue to see 
interest in the functionality of the products, we have found 
that decision making cycles for clinical decision support 
applications are considerably longer than originally 
anticipated. 
 
Healthcare – Nordic & Australia
Allocate’s international operations continue to 
strengthen, providing a solid growth platform  
for the future.
The Nordics business has grown revenue and profits for the 
fourth year in succession and has secured contracts with a 
significant number of new customers for both Time Care 
Pool and Time Care Planning.
Average order values have risen slightly in the period due 
to transaction size. The average value per services day has 
also risen slightly, contributing not only to the excellent 
Nordics performance but also to the improved services 
performance Company wide. In 2015, Allocate will deploy 
its V10 platform into the Nordics and we are confident that 
this will support continuing strong growth in the geography.
The Australian Healthcare revenue has increased by 41% 
over 2013, principally as a result of better integration of 
the acquired RosterOn organisation which has led to 
improved execution of both licence and services contracts. 
In addition, as we closed 2014, we were negotiating an 
agreement with our major customer in Australia for a large, 
multi-year services engagement to provide enhancements 
to their HealthRoster deployment. As part of this 
agreement, we will make an incremental investment in our 
R&D team located in Australia.
Defence and other commercial markets
Allocate’ s main division and primary growth driver is 
Healthcare. The Company has strong credentials and 
continues to maintain a position in the Defence and 
Maritime sectors. Both of these divisions are profitable and 
cash-generative.
The Defence environment remains very challenging with 
western nations looking for reductions in government 
spending. As a consequence, we have not been successful 
in securing new licence agreements this year. However, 
we retain a significant customer base in Australia, the 
UK and Europe for whom we continue to provide both 
services and support at levels that contribute positively 
to the Company’ s financial position. Post period end we 
secured a significant commitment from the Australian 
Defence Forces for a multi-year support agreement which 
underlines the commitment to the Allocate Defence Suite.
For offshore oil and gas organisations around the globe, 
the task of finding, deploying and managing highly skilled 
workforces in the marine environment is increasingly 
complex. Whilst we have not been successful in closing 
any new licence contracts this year, several customers 
have extended their use of our products. McDermott has 
gone live globally and has rolled out Allocate Onboard for 
their barges and vessels. Subsea 7 has extended the use 
of the system to cover activity time capture and skills. As 
noted with Defence, the Maritime business continues to 
maintain strong services and support relationships with our 
clients and the business remains a positive contributor to 
Allocate’ s financial position. Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
9
Overview
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust 
A swift and successful roll-out of HealthRoster across 50 wards 
results in more engaged staff with quick and easy access to up-
to-date staffing information, better management information 
for trust managers and the ability to respond to national staffing 
requirements.
The Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust is the main provider 
of hospital and adult community services and a wide range of 
medical, surgical and rehabilitation services to around 400,000 
people. The organisation has been focused on making changes 
to ensure it has the right systems to ensure quality and safe 
staffing levels are delivered in an efficient manner. As part of this 
programme they replaced a legacy e-rostering system and moved 
to Allocate Software’s HealthRoster. 
Using HealthRoster V10 the trust has been able to benefit from a 
tool that is a lot faster saving administration time, more accessible 
for staff allowing them to use their mobile devices to access 
rosters and request leave and functionally rich. “We can now 
produce roster reports within minutes, whereas before it was 
taking up to 24hrs.” says Justin Willetts, project manager, Dudley 
Group NHS Foundation Trust.
Benefits
• The transition process from the legacy system was smooth and 
a range of users were able to see the benefits quickly
• Staff are more engaged in the e-rostering process. They have 
quick and easy access to the e-rostering system through 
Employee Online across a range of devices (including iphone 
and ipad) and ward information is up-to-date and accurate
• The trust can monitor staffing metrics from a safety and 
efficiency perspective across all its wards by using in-depth 
management information to benchmark staffing from one ward 
to another 
Services
As planned in 2014, we reorganised the Services team. The focus has 
been on right-sizing capacity, improving the utilisation of the delivery 
teams and meeting customer quality standards. Our objective is to 
develop a sustainable world-class services organisation, delivering high 
quality outcomes in projects delivered to customer requirements with 
improved margins. In the UK the team has been enhanced through 
the recruitment of a number of experienced individuals including key 
director roles. The new team has made significant progress and has 
established an improved implementation methodology for the delivery 
of the core HealthRoster application. This has both reduced the cost 
and improved the quality of project outcomes. 
In addition to delivering increasing new-business-driven services, the 
team has delivered a considerable amount of post-sale services for 
benefits realisation.
In the UK there has been a surge in demand from customers seeking 
support in migrating from HealthRoster V9 to V10. T o satisfy this 
demand a dedicated team was created and the migration process 
reengineered to reduce lead time and increase project throughput, 
thereby improving customer satisfaction. The team is now staffed, 
trained and in a position to migrate the balance of the V9 installed 
base to V10 in 2015. 
The focus in Australia is very much the same as the UK with recruitment 
improving the capability of the team. Project results have improved 
and service revenues have improved significantly over 2013.
In the Nordics, the services team continue to build on the success of 
their Planning Academy Consulting proposition. The success of this 
programme has resulted in non-product-related services revenue 
rising to a material proportion of Nordics services revenue and is a 
key contributor to the fourth consecutive year of Nordics revenue and 
profit growth.
There is now positive momentum in our services business and we are 
confident that 2015 will bring further improvements in revenue, delivery 
and margins.
Products
Product strategy is focused on strengthening our key differentiators 
and enabling easier adoption of additional applications.
Allocate’ s current portfolio of Healthcare products has been designed 
and developed specifically to enable healthcare organisations to make 
significant real-time efficiency gains whilst at the same time ensuring 
the appropriate level of care is provided to patients. The market’ s 
appetite and confidence in our products is demonstrated by the 90% 
competitive win rate for HealthRoster over the year and 100% renewal 
rates. Allocate’ s reputation in the UK has positioned the Company well 
for further international growth and following the strong adoption of 
HealthRoster V10 in the UK, in 2014, the Company is deploying V10 
into the Swedish market. 
A majority of Allocate’ s customers initially enter into a contract with 
the Company for one of our four core products. The development 
of the Allocate Cloud has enabled our customers to benefit from 
additional solutions and applications. Future services to be offered to 
Cloud customers could address customer needs in the area of data 
management.
Chief Executive Officer’s report and  
business review continued 10
Our Balance Sheet and cash generation are again very 
strong and this gives us the confidence as well as the 
capacity to invest further in a strategy that is proving 
successful.
I would like to add my personal thanks to two of my 
colleagues who plan to leave the Company during our next 
financial year.
Chris Gale, our CFO, is leaving us after four and a half years.
His contribution to the evolution of the business model has 
been significant and he leaves behind a strong team that 
will carry the business through the next stage of our growth. 
I wish him every continued success for the future.
T erry Osborne, who plans to retire later this year, has been 
Chairman for nine years and has had a very significant 
impact on the business. He has provided constructive 
challenge to the executives, run a very effective board and, 
at the same time, he has been a great personal member.
On behalf of the Board and the broader team, I thank them 
both for thier contributions to our success.
Whilst I remain confident about the prospects for Allocate 
in 2015 there are challenges that we will continue to face 
as we drive the business forward. I remain confident that 
as a team we can face up to both the challenges and 
opportunities presented and look forward to another 
successful year.
Our success is predicated on the collaborative 
relationships we develop with our customers and would 
not be possible without the support of our partners and 
the outstanding international team at Allocate. Thank you 
all for the ongoing support and commitment, which we 
never take for granted.
Ian Bowles
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2014
Strategic priorities for 2015
• Drive success of the Allocate Cloud and SafeCare
• Secure 100% HealthRoster licence renewals
• Maintain growth trajectory in Nordics and Australia
• Upgrade 85% of the HealthRoster installed base to HealthRoster V10
• Drive operating margin expansion through operating efficiencies and improved return on investments
Allocate is committed to investing in R&D to maintain 
and extend its market position. Mobile applications 
utilising tablet and mobile devices across our core 
applications is now a key focus. During the period, the 
Company launched SafeCare Mobile which is changing 
the way healthcare organisations manage the day to 
day requirements of complex staff deployment in their 
organisations, enabling staff to record information and 
review data in real time at the point of care. 
Organisation
The number of employees at the end of the year was 296 
(2013: 305). This slight fall in headcount is a reflection of 
the Company’ s increased focus on productivity and margin 
improvement.
Outlook and future developments
2015 will be another significant year for Allocate. 
The priority is to drive further growth in the Healthcare 
business, principally by accelerating both Cloud and 
SafeCare adoption to support our customers and 
prospects as they respond to the NHS safe staffing agenda.
The demand for Allocate’ s products is clear and evidenced 
by the fact that we closed 2014 with very high levels 
of customer interest and engagement in all of the 
applications in HealthSuite.
Our V10 migrations were capacity constrained in 2014, but 
we have now overcome these challenges and we have the 
resources in place required to migrate at least 85% of our 
customer base to V10 in 2015.
Our overseas businesses continue to grow and they remain 
strong. We look forward to another positive year in these 
territories.
Operating margin expansion in 2015 is an important 
priority. We have expanded margins in 2014 by four 
percentage points and we are confident that we will see 
a further, albeit smaller, improvement in 2015, driven 
principally by improved services margins and by improved 
efficiency in R&D.
Chief Executive Officer’s report and  
business review continued Allocate Software plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
11
Overview
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Company Information
Capability
At Allocate we are focused on developing market-leading 
solutions for complex workforce management. We are 
highly successful and continue to develop in our chosen 
markets. However, the base for our future growth has been 
firmly established in our nurse rostering portfolio in the UK, 
Australia and the Nordics.
We are now focusing on the next stage of the strategy to 
bring greater operational efficiency, reduced avoidable costs 
and help improve patient outcomes through the automation 
of people centred systems and processes to our extensive 
healthcare customer base. 
We are already seeing significant uptake of SafeCare, our 
safe staffing mobile application which is enabling care 
staff to dynamically assess the level and skill set of staffing 
required to meet patients actual needs using mobile devices. 
While medics make less than 30% of a healthcare workforce 
they account for more than 50% of the salary bill. With 
the success of HeathRoster for nursing and allied health 
professionals, customers are now looking for similar 
efficiencies to be realised for the medical workforce. We 
already see good sales volumes from our HealthMedics 
portfolio and anticipate continued growth across our 
installed base and the wider market. 
Fundamental to the evolution of our products is the 
extensive collaboration that we have with our customer 
base. We apply our approach to software development 
and supporting services design to deliver the best-in-class 
solution that enables operational efficiency and therefore 
financial savings for our customers.
Geography
We are the market leader in three key territories, UK, 
Australia and the Nordics with our nurse roster product 
portfolios. 2014 saw significant shift in focus for rostering 
in the NHS. While cost control remains imperative for all 
healthcare economies there is now increased regulatory 
pressure to ensure staff levels are appropriate to ensure 
required patient care. Allocate have been able to work 
with the market and regulators to understand the system 
and reporting requirements and respond with a solution 
“SafeCare” to support our customers fulfilling the centrally 
mandated requirement. 
We are also seeing similar opportunities to innovate in 
Australia and the Nordics using HealthRoster V10 in the 
existing base and new accounts driven by a need to identify 
efficiencies and manage the growing cost of healthcare more 
effectively. HealthRoster has also been translated into the first 
non-English language, Swedish, and we are working with our 
first Swedish customer to implement the software. 
Development strategy
Our development strategy delivers complementary 
applications that build on the success and performance 
of the existing portfolio. Our philosophy is to ensure we 
develop best-in-class solutions that enable greater efficiency 
and assurance to be realised by our customers. The journey 
is towards an integrated suite of products and applications 
that draws data and information from across the suite 
delivering unparalleled insight and operational efficiency to 
our customers.
Acquisition strategy
Our acquisition strategy continues to focus on four key 
priorities: Complementary applications that enable us to 
extend our differentiation and deliver enhanced value to 
our customers; Organisations that enable international 
expansion though existing market presence in new 
geographical locations; Cross selling opportunities of our 
current portfolio into new markets; and Recurring revenue 
products that enhance the quality of our earnings. 
Strategic priorities for 2015 include:
• Accelerate HealthRoster V10 adoption in Australia and 
the Nordics
• Maintain growth trajectory of Cloud and Medics
• Secure 100% HealthRoster licence renewals
• Maintain growth trajectory in Nordics
• Upgrade identified HealthRoster V9 installed base to 
HealthRoster V10
• Drive margin expansion through operating efficiencies 
and improved return on investments
Chief Executive Officer’s report and  
business review continued
Our strategy for growth
At the NHS Confederation’s Annual Conference and Exhibition 
(CONFED) the Rt Hon Jeremy Hunt MP , Secretary of State for Health, 
pictured with Ian Bowles, Chief Executive Officer, and other members 
of the Allocate team.
