 Statement
 Statement
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Hellenic Carriers is pleased to report healthy results for the year ended 31 December 2009 
despite the challenging conditions prevailing in the global economy and the dry bulk shipping 
sector. I am also pleased to announce payment of a final dividend for 2009 of GBP 2.47 pence 
per share or total GBP 1,127 representing about 10% of the Company’s net income.
During the year we continued to implement our strategy to strengthen our balance sheet, 
enhance cash flow visibility and reinforce liquidity. We successfully restructured time charters 
agreed prior to the market downturn in Q4 2008 and as of today 62% of our 2010 fleet operating 
days are secured under time charter employments. We preserved liquidity and reduced our 
breakeven levels by proactively working with our lenders to restructure our bank debt for 2009 
and 2010. As a result, we have reduced our net debt from US$93 million at the end of 2008 to US$66 million by the end 
of 2009, we have built up solid cash reserves while we have no capital commitments and we operate a fleet generating 
strong and stable cash flows.
 
In 2009 the scenario of a sustained market collapse, anticipated by many after October 2008, did not materialise. The 
impact of demand from the developing world, primarily China, can no longer be underestimated and is expected to 
continue to support the market in the longer term. At the same time, however, the increase in the supply of vessels, albeit 
with significant delays and at lower volumes than those recorded in the newbuildings orderbook, remains an issue to be 
monitored.
 
In light of the above, our Company is well positioned to face market challenges for the coming year. With an efficiently 
run fleet, visible and stable cash flows and real liquidity, we are poised to take advantage of acquisition opportunities 
maximizing long term value for our shareholders.
Fotini Karamanlis
Chief Executive Officer
15 March 2010
