 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S
STATEMENT
Our objective during 2012 has been to steer through a very challenging
market and position our Company to benefit from the eventual market
turnaround. 
The decrease in revenues for the year was attributed to the reduced
number of vessels in the fleet and the depressed dry bulk freight rates.
Although seaborne trade demand continued to grow in 2012, supported
mainly by the need for raw materials by the developing countries,
oversupply negatively affected rates in all dry bulk segments.
In 2012 the fleet renewal program continued: two of the older Panamax
vessels were sold, while the option to use the sale proceeds within 2013
as debt financing towards the acquisition of modern second hand ships
was secured from the lenders. The vessels were employed
predominantly under short period time charters, avoiding commitment
at low rates for the longer term. Tight cost control resulted in a reduction
of both the daily vessel operating expenses as well as the general and
administrative expenses. Preservation of cash was achieved, following
agreements with the existing lenders to reduce the principal installments
due in 2012 and 2013 and to extend the maturity of one of the facilities,
whilst also extending the maturity of the second facility in case of
replacement of one of the ships sold.
Looking ahead, urbanization in the developing economies is an
irreversible trend and this translates into continued demand for core raw
materials which are the backbone of the dry bulk trade. At the same time,
net fleet growth is expected to slow down in 2013 and especially in 2014
as the result of a diminished order book and higher scrapping levels, since
about 13% of the global dry bulk fleet is over 20 years of age.  Therefore,
even though we expect overall a challenging market for 2013, we remain
cautiously optimistic on the medium term prospects of our industry.
Since the market downturn in the end of 2008, we have taken steps ensuring
that the Company is well prepared to endure difficult market conditions. We
expect that such conditions will continue to prevail during 2013. However,
thereafter with the bulk of the order book delivered and the growth
prospects of the developing countries robust, we envisage a gradual
improvement in earnings. Our aim is that at that point in time the Company
will be well positioned, with a bigger and more modern fleet, to capitalise
on the improved market, building long term value for our shareholders. 
Fotini Karamanli
Chief Executive Officer
12 March 2013
7
