 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
This was another challenging year for the global shipping markets and
for dry bulk shipping markets in particular. Demand for seaborne freight
continued to grow in 2012, supported mainly by the need for raw
materials in the developing countries, but the oversupply of vessels
continued to negatively affect freight rates. As a result the Baltic Dry
Index decreased by 40% compared to 2011 and this has had a negative
impact upon our financial performance.
While waiting for the market conditions to improve we have used our
fleet mainly in the spot market and this has allowed us to take advantage
of some seasonal market swings. We continue to focus upon cost and
cash control, which has enabled us to maintain a strong balance sheet
and continue our fleet renewal programme.
Hellenic Carriers enjoys a long standing relationship with its lenders and
in 2012 we concluded an agreement to restructure our debt and
decrease repayments due in the next few years. In addition, we sold two
of our older vessels in 2012 and secured the option to use these sale
proceeds towards the future acquisitions. The Board of Directors has
recommended that the dividend payment for 2012 be suspended in
order to further reinforce our liquidity. These measures will allow the
company to take advantage of opportunities to acquire further vessels,
at attractive prices, in the current and future markets.
We expect delivery of two new Kamsarmax vessels in 2013, which will
support the fleet renewal programme and increase the revenue
generation capacity.
Looking ahead, we expect 2013 to be another challenging year but
remain cautiously optimistic on the medium term prospects of the dry
bulk market. Demand from the developing economies is expected to
remain robust and freight rates should improve as the supply of new
vessels diminishes in 2013 and furthermore in 2014.
With a modern, well run fleet, experienced management, strong relations
with our customers, trading partners and lenders, and a strong balance
sheet, we believe that Hellenic Carriers is well positioned to take
advantage of improved market conditions and provide shareholder value
for the longer term.
Graham Roberts 
Chairman
12 March 2013
6
