 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
7
2013 was a transformative year for Hellenic Carriers. Within a year, the
fleet grew from three to six vessels and its profile improved in terms of
average age and overall carrying capacity. Importantly, the new vessels
were acquired at levels which are well below the 10-year average prices
for similar assets, and have come at a time when the signs of recovery
are apparent. We are confident that these acquisitions are accretive, and
will yield significant profit generation capacity going forward. 
Furthermore, as we avoided long term employment commitments at
previously prevailing low rates, the vessels can fully capitalize upon the
gradually improving freight market. 
After almost three years of a shipping crisis which led rates close to
historical lows, we believe that the supply/demand fundamentals are
now turning positive. The crisis was not caused by lackluster demand,
on the contrary demand continued to steadily grow, but rather by the
oversupply of ships. The unprecedented numbers of new vessels ordered
during the peak of the last shipping cycle have now been significantly
absorbed, while many older vessels have been scrapped. Newbuilding
orders are continuing to grow, but not, as things stand today, at levels
that would threaten industry fundamentals. Dry bulk commodity
demand, both from the developing world, as well as from mature
economies continues to strengthen. Considering all these factors
together, we believe that 2014 will be the turning point towards a
recovery cycle.
It is not surprising, therefore, that investor interest for shipping has
resumed. After all, shipping offers a solid investment proposal backed
by hard assets at prices which are attractive, as well as the growing trade
amongst the mature and the developing economies. However, shipping
remains a highly cyclical market and timing plays a crucial role. The
recent downturn is an example of the importance of making the right
employment and investment decisions at the right time.
Hellenic’s track record proves the point: when the market was at or close
to its peak, long term charter contracts were agreed which helped build
significant cash reserves. Then as the market deteriorated, older assets
were disposed of and through these sales funding for the new
acquisitions was secured. As a result, the company managed to
overcome challenging conditions and to emerge stronger. 
Today with a larger, younger and uncommitted fleet Hellenic, a pure dry
bulk shipping company, is well positioned to benefit from the positive
trend and shall consider further timely and accretive acquisitions, which
will continue to enhance shareholder value.
Fotini Karamanli
Chief Executive Officer
26 February 2014
