 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The past year, 2013, has been a tale of two halves in the dry bulk shipping
markets. The first half saw a further 11% average reduction in the BDI
from the first half of 2012, which had been the weakest year for the BDI
in the last 26 years. In the second half of 2013 the market improved
significantly and the BDI hit a peak of 2,337 in December. This recovery
was led by the Capesize sector, but daily rates for Handymaxes,
Supramaxes and Panamaxes all showed substantial improvements.
Encouragingly the initial trade data for 2013 indicates that world
seaborne dry bulk trade rose by over 5% and this was driven by sizable
growth in iron ore, coal and grain cargoes. This growth figure surpassed
even the yearly increases experienced during the strong markets of 2003
to 2008 and further endorses our view that the market will enjoy
continued growth.
Forward orders for new dry bulk vessels indicate a marked reduction
from 2016 and this may have encouraged the market to take a more
favourable view of the supply/demand balance.
As a result of these improved market conditions we have, during the past
six months, increased our fleet from three to six vessels and more than
doubled our size in terms of dwt capacity. In the second half of 2013 we
took delivery of two new Kamsarmax vessels, which we contracted in
2010, and acquired a modern Supramax vessel that was delivered in
January 2014. These actions will expand our revenue generation capacity
and improve the average age and cost efficiency of our fleet. Capitalizing
on the strong and long standing relationships with our lenders, we have
utilized the sale proceeds from the older vessels we sold to acquire
younger tonnage at very attractive values. This will enable us to maintain
our strong balance sheet and enhance shareholder value.
As we enter 2014 the dry bulk market continues to remain volatile and
therefore we have chosen to continue an opportunistic chartering
strategy for our fleet, utilizing short term time charters in the spot market.
By doing this, we are able to take advantage of any future improvements
in rates. In addition, we remain fully committed towards our stringent
focus on cost and cash controls.
Looking ahead, we expect to see a gradual improvement in the
underlying dry bulk market fundamentals in 2014. Analysts forecast
global dry bulk trade to continue to grow at a rate of approximately 5%
in 2014 which put together with the continuing reduction of the rate of
expansion in the dry bulk fleet, will lead in our opinion to a more robust
freight rate environment in the years ahead.
With a modern, well run fleet, experienced management, good relations
with our customers, trading partners and lenders, and a strong balance
sheet, we believe that Hellenic Carriers is well positioned to take
advantage of improved market conditions and provide shareholder value
for the longer term.
Graham Roberts 
Chairman
26 February 2014
6
