 During 2014 the performance of the dry bulk market was more disappointing than initially
anticipated. Several factors contribute to this including the continued supply of new tonnage
entering the market, the reduction of coal shipments into China and Europe, the ban on Indonesian
exports of minor metal ores, the disruption in grain shipments out of South America (and
in particular Argentina) and lower port congestion. 
Despite the adversity of the market environment we have been able to improve our revenues
and EBITDA, renew our fleet, contain our costs and achieve high fleet utilization. Our revenues
and EBITDA increased by 89% and 233% respectively in 2014 and we achieved a 25% increase
in our daily rate outperforming the average Panamax and Supramax daily rates. Our fleet
utilization was 96.1% for the year.
In January 2014, we took delivery of the 2004 built vessel M/V PISTIS, the latest addition to
our fleet, following the deliveries of the new Kamsarmaxes in August and September 2013.
This expanded the aggregate carrying capacity of our fleet to 384,864 dwt with a weighted
average age of 10.9 years as of 31 December 2014. 
The dry bulk shipping sector remains challenging in 2015. Spot rates as well as time charter
rates have declined significantly, and asset prices remain under increasing pressure. The
Baltic Dry Index (BDI) reached its lowest point in 30 years in February 2015. 
As the timing of the market recovery is yet unclear, we continue to avoid locking in the vessels
under long term charters and focus on a combination of spot market employment and
short term period fixtures. This enables us to take full advantage of pockets of opportunities
presented due to the freight market volatility.
Despite its volatility and cyclicality, shipping remains a vital link to the global economy
and trade. We are in this business for the long term and we remain alert to take advantage
of opportunities which will enable Hellenic to navigate safely through the current market
environment and grow in a prudent and accretive manner. 
Graham Roberts 
Chairman
03 June 2015
6
Chairman’s
Statement
