 Financial  
statements Governance
Strategic 
report 23
Other 
information
Chairman’s statement 
 
Our governance 
At HellermannT yton, we recognise that good corporate governance 
gives our shareholders assurance that the Company is being 
managed effectively , with the right safeguards, checks and balances 
underpinning the strategic direction of the business. The Corporate 
Governance report starting on page 24, together with the reports 
of our Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, explain 
how the UK Corporate Governance Code has been applied by 
the Company and has shaped our decision making as a Board 
throughout 2014. 
As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board, 
which regularly meets to debate and examine the Company’ s: 
 performance and progress against the annual business plan; 
 business development and acquisition opportunities; 
 strategy in the light of market risks and challenges; 
 investment in global infrastructure and innovation; 
 people, including how we can develop our management team 
and retain the best talent; and 
 succession planning for the Board and senior management to 
protect the business for the future. 
All of these discussions are underpinned by legal and regulatory 
considerations, and we firmly believe that our framework of corporate 
governance facilitates prudent management that can deliver long-term 
success for the benefit of our shareholders. 
Investor relations
 
This year has seen HellermannT yton settle into its new arena as a listed 
company and the executive team focus on giving our shareholders 
greater insight into how we run our business. In September , an 
investor day was held at the Group’ s T ornesch location to show our 
institutional shareholders the breadth of our product range and the 
innovative steps that we take to meet our customers’ ever-increasing 
demand for cable management solutions and stay ahead of the 
competition. This was welcomed by all those who attended and who 
found it particularly useful to see first-hand our strong design and 
development capabilities. Accordingly , we plan to hold similar events 
for our shareholders in future. 
 
Employees
HellermannT yton has a first-class team which is empowered to take 
ownership of day-to-day operational decision making. This was 
particularly noticeable when I and the other Board members 
visited the Group’ s Milwaukee location to see personally how 
HellermannT yton’ s worldwide employees are working hard to 
maximise customer penetration and increase efficiency throughout 
the business. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for 
the diligence, commitment and good judgement they have shown 
throughout the year to make the success of HellermannT yton possible. 
Changes to the Board
2014 also saw Doughty Hanson, who listed the Company in 2013, 
sell their remaining shareholding in HellermannT yton and the 
resignation of their representative Director , Alex Moss, from the 
Board. Although this has not disrupted the appropriate balance of 
Non-executive to Executive Directors, the departure of Alex has 
prompted our Nomination Committee to begin searching for a new 
Non-executive Director to bring fresh perspective and challenge to 
the Board dynamic, and further details about this can be found in 
the Nomination Committee report starting on page 28. 
Summary
As the Chief Executive reports on page 4, HellermannT yton has had 
another strong year of profitable growth, which has enabled the 
Board to recommend a final dividend of 5.63 cents per share. This is 
an increase of 7.6% over the final dividend paid for 2013 and I believe 
that the Group will continue to build on this growth in 2015. 
David Newlands 
Chairman 
HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
