 HellermannTyton  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s statement
Performance
2014 was another year of profitable 
growth for HellermannTyton against a 
background of mixed economic conditions. 
The Group’s revenue of €596.9 million 
increased by 13.5% in constant currency 
and 10.9% at reported rates compared 
with 2013. Encouragingly, this growth is 
not attributable to any one geography, 
customer, project win or product launch, 
and it primarily reflects the increased 
volume of sales in all of the Group’s 
segments. Underlying EBITA and 
underlying EBITDA were €90.4 million and 
€1 15.7 million respectively, with margins 
remaining strong at 15.2% (underlying 
EBITA) and 19.4% (underlying EBITDA). 
Operating profit increased to €82.9 million 
in 2014 from €63.5 million in 2013.
The net debt position on 31 December 
2014 was €161.1 million. This included cash 
and cash equivalents of €57.4 million. 
Underlying basic earnings per share 
(EPS) for the year were 26.08 cents 
(2013: 22.81 cents). Reported basic EPS 
were 23.66 cents and reported diluted EPS 
were 22.99 cents. The Board is proposing 
a final dividend of 5.63 cents per share, 
which is an increase of 7.6% compared to 
the 2013 final dividend, and in addition to 
the interim dividend of 2.82 cents per share. 
The final dividend will be paid on 6 May 
2015, subject to approval at the AGM.
Employees
HellermannTyton relies on the skills and 
expertise of its employees worldwide and 
the results for 2014 would not have been 
achieved without the commitment and 
dedication of our whole team, to whom 
I would like to give my sincere thanks. 
We recognise the importance of ensuring 
a sustainable business through a strategy 
of managing, developing and recruiting 
people who support the Group’s values 
and contribute to our growth. We seek to 
ensure diversity amongst our workforce and 
utilise fully the talent pool available to us. 
The retirements of Marco da Costa 
and Masayuki Ishikawa after many 
successful years with HellermannTyton 
meant that there were changes to the 
Executive Committee during the year. 
Their responsibilities have been taken over 
by Alexandro Zavarizi, Toshi Tsukamoto and 
Heng Lee, who have extensive experience 
in the Group, putting them in an excellent 
position to continue the delivery of the 
growth potential of HellermannTyton in 
their respective regions.
Strategy
We have continued to deliver good progress 
against our strategic priorities during 2014. 
This includes expanding our global presence 
and strengthening our sales operations by, 
for instance, opening an office in the United 
Arab Emirates to better service the rising 
demand for our products and solutions in 
the Middle East region. 
Our development and technical sales teams 
around the world have been successful in 
gaining the specification of our products by 
customers on many upcoming platforms, 
such as the Volvo SPA platform which goes 
into production in 2015. 
Our world-class marketing activities are 
delivering a strong pipeline of projects. 
We have had a strong presence at 
important trade shows for our industry, 
as well as participating at our customers’ 
in-house exhibitions, and we are at the 
leading edge of e-business capabilities 
in our industry with, for instance, mobile 
solutions that provide real benefits and 
efficiencies to end-users. 
We have continued to extend our range 
of cable management products in order to 
provide more comprehensive solutions and 
increase our customer penetration, such 
as with the launch of a new LightGuide 
protection system for fibre in the 
Datacom market. 
We have invested in increasing our capacity 
and in delivering world-class operational 
excellence. This included the start of the 
expansion of the Good Hope Road facility 
in Milwaukee, and investment in new and 
replacement moulding machines.
Outlook for 2015
As global industrial production increases, 
we expect to benefit from this and positive 
underlying structural growth drivers. We will 
therefore continue to expand our capacity 
and footprint during 2015. Our programme 
of capital investment is designed to ensure 
we extend our reach and deliver sustainable 
growth, as we concentrate on providing 
innovative cable management solutions and 
high levels of service to our customer base.
2015 has started well, with the Group 
focusing on delivering growth through 
broadly based initiatives.
Steve Salmon
Chief Executive
Final dividend (cents)
5.63
2013: 5.23
Our world-class 
marketing activities 
are delivering 
a strong pipeline 
of projects. 
Underlying basic EPS (cents)
26.08
2013: 22.81
