 4
Alpha Airports Group Plc
Annual Report 2003/04
Our business
Our business is retailing and catering for airlines 
and airports. A major challenge in this business 
is that air travellers do not need to eat or shop 
in transit. The demise of Duty Free in Europe has 
in the past few years put the onus on attracting
customers squarely with store operators. At Alpha,
our experience tells us that if the offer represents
good value, the choice genuine, the buying
appropriate for the market and the experience
enticing, customers will stop and shop. And the 
same goes for catering. A well-targeted offer can
create a genuine success. At Alpha, our aim has
always been to make travel special and memorable,
every time, for every customer . So, we work hard 
to create stores and catering experiences that 
are destinations in themselves. 
A changing market
For Alpha, 83% of Group sales now come from our
focus at airports across the UK. With EU deregulation
in full force, the emergence of lower fares and wider
choice has created a real explosion in passenger
numbers and a new focus on regional airports. This is
a thriving business and one that, despite the SARS
virus and the conflict in Iraq, has given us nearly 9%
passenger growth in the year and continues to be a
key driver for our UK business as a whole.
Innovation
New and exceptional consumer experiences have
transformed our business over the past five years. 
In 2003, our substantial retail growth included 
a creditable 15% from our upgraded pink 
‘Everyone Can Buy’ Alpha Airport Shops, as well 
as an exceptional 47% from our Glorious Britain
destination gift format. Alpha D’Lish is an internet-
based fine meal ordering service for no-frills
travellers – evolving the low cost travel experience 
to meet the aspirations of both business and holiday
travellers. At the same time, major upgrades of 
our catering offer in airports such as Dublin are
raising and more than meeting consumer
expectations. Alpha staff continue to play a vital 
role in the success of these ventures, so we continue
to work hard to offer them the support they need 
to go the extra mile. 
Partnership
Over the year, we have continued to develop deeper 
and wider partnerships with both airport and airline
customers. In Manchester Airport, Bar 08 has
Chief Executive’s review
“ In a changing market with evolving
passenger needs, we are keenly aware
of the need to keep our offer focused
and enticing, making travel special and
memorable, every time.” 5
Alpha Airports Group Plc
Annual Report 2003/04
increased penetration into Alpha Airport Shopping
at Terminal 3. Also, this year we commenced our
highly successful partnership between IFSM and
BA CitiExpress. To round off the year, we are pleased
to announce new national service agreements with
both MyTravel and Monarch Airlines.
We continue to invest in our international 
operations. We have secured an extension to our
contract in Sri Lanka, to include an expanded 
Duty Free offer in better-located arrivals stores 
in Bandaranaike International Airport. We are 
also pleased to announce that our refurbishment 
of the ex-Ansett flight service units in Australia 
is now complete.
Our people
Creating a great place to work for our staff remains 
a high priority . As part of our ongoing investment 
in staff, we have launched Alpha Heroes – a new
programme celebrating and rewarding exceptional
contribution and performance. In an independent,
confidential survey of our staff by ORC, overall
employee satisfaction had improved 22%, to 77%, 
in 2003, while our staff turnover declined by 25%.
Benchmarked against other UK employers, this 
puts us firmly in the upper quartile – a strong and
positive foundation for further developing and 
growing our business. 
Compliance
Compliance remains a critical part of our focus. 
With our accredited training manual and our
involvement in the IFCA and IFSA new food safety
code of practice for the airline catering industry
world-wide, we are among the best in the industry
when it comes to hygiene and food safety.
The Department for Transport has again tightened
security procedures – renewal of our operating
licences depends on compliance. So, we are
constantly monitoring the situation and introducing
appropriate training and policies for our staff. 
Our rigorous compliance policies and training 
have also seen a reduction in the number of RIDDOR
accidents by 14% – an excellent performance, 58%
better than our sector average. 
Always improving
In a challenging marketplace, we continue to 
innovate and improve every aspect of our business.
What we do well today, we must do better tomorrow.
In Retail, our penetration of available customer
numbers has improved, with Alpha Airport Shopping
sales per passenger increasing by 6%. In UK 
Flight Services, despite an 8% reduction in meals
sold, we have improved productivity by 4%, giving 
a total improvement of 48% over the last five years. 
In 2004/05 we have embarked on a major IT
investment across our entire Retail estate, to give
solid support to our next phase of planned growth 
and development. In Flight Services, we will be
investing in centralised distribution and assembly 
of our fresh, high quality food offers, enabling 
us to offer a further enhanced service for our network 
airline customers. 
Following a challenging first half, I am pleased 
with our progress in the second half. Over the past 
five years, we have transformed our business model 
to adapt to a larger, faster-growing aviation market. 
We continue to concentrate on our core business
offerings and, with a healthy balance sheet and
strong Alpha team, we are well positioned to take 
the business forward.
Kevin Abbott 
Chief Executive
25 March 2004
