 10
Business Review
3Legs Resources
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
CEO’s 
Strategic
Review
VISIT
WWW.3LEGSRESOURCES.COM
In the  
Baltic Basin
In the Baltic Basin, we have 
initiated a vertical well 
programme scheduled to run 
through 2013 and beyond
Decision in 2014 on the drilling 
of one or more horizontal wells 
as the first stage of a potential 
pilot development programme
Kamlesh Parmar
Chief Executive O cer
As in preceding years, our main focus in 2012 has 
continued to be on the further de-risking of our 
Baltic Basin concessions in northern Poland, 
building on our ground-breaking activity of the 
previous year when we successfully drilled, 
stimulated and tested the ﬁrst two horizontal 
shale gas wells in the country. 
During 2012, we further improved our 
understanding of our Lebien LE-2H and 
Warblino LE-1H horizontal wells, through 
the successful further testing of both wells. 
At the same time we initiated a vertical well 
programme scheduled to run through 2013 
and beyond, designed to enhance further 
our understanding of the basin and its 
productive potential with a view to a 
decision, in 2014, on the drilling of one or 
more horizontal wells as the rst stage of 
a potential pilot development programme. 
Baltic Basin concessions, northern Poland
On 14 September 2012, following exercise 
of its option to farm in to our western 
Baltic Basin concessions, ConocoPhillips 
acquired a 70% equity interest in these 
concessions, becoming operator at the 
same time. ConocoPhillips had already 
been actively involved in operations for 
some time, and the transfer of operatorship 
was completed smoothly.  11
Business Review
3Legs Resources
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Since the transfer of operatorship, we 
continue to participate actively in all material 
technical and commercial decisions relating 
to the ongoing work programme on the 
concessions, through our participation in the 
Lane Energy Poland operating and technical 
committees and in relevant working groups. 
We see the option exercise by ConocoPhillips 
as a signi cant a rmation of the potential of 
our western concessions and we look 
forward to continuing our highly successful 
collaboration as we continue to focus on 
de-risking our concessions. 
In the case of our three eastern Baltic Basin 
concessions, which we consider to be more 
liquids-prone, ConocoPhillips did not 
exercise its farm-in option prior to its expiry 
on 30 September 2012, with the result that 
3Legs remains 100% owner and operator 
of those concessions. Group activity 
during 2012 has focused on our western 
concessions and will continue to do 
so throughout 2013, while we consider 
our options in relation to our 
eastern concessions. 
Exploration and appraisal activity during 
2012 has continued to focus on further 
re ning our basin model and high-grading 
our signi cant acreage position, so as to 
identify that part of our acreage which o ers 
the highest probability of success, based 
on the depth and thickness of the target 
horizons and their reservoir properties. 
We have had access to well data from a 
signi cant number of other operators in the 
basin through data trades, as is common 
practice in our industry. 
We continue to be encouraged that our 
original acreage selection is validated by 
our updated basin model, reinforcing our 
long-held view that our acreage is in the 
most prospective part of the Baltic Basin. 
Moreover, by de-risking our acreage through 
the data we have acquired, we are, in our 
view, able to attribute a higher probability of 
success to this high graded area than was 
possible at the time of our initial public 
o ering in June 201 1. 
Further testing of existing horizontal wells
After concluding initial testing of the Lebien 
LE-2H and Warblino LE-1H wells in late 201 1, 
these two wells were shut in for an extended 
period in order to monitor pressure build-up 
and to be able to evaluate how the wells 
would perform following the shut-in. 
We conducted further testing of the Warblino 
LE-1H well in August and September 2012, 
using a jet pump to provide arti cial lift to 
remove more of the uid that had been left 
on the formation from the original stimulation 
and test programme. To the best of our 
knowledge, this was the rst time that a jet 
pump assembly has been used in Poland 
for an operation of this kind. The principal 
objectives of the further testing were to 
gather additional data on reservoir 
performance and gas composition in 
the Cambrian section. 
After 20 days of testing, the Warblino LE-1H 
well achieved a ow rate of some ve times 
the rate achieved when the well was rst 
tested in 201 1, owing natural gas at a rate 
of 90 mscf/d, with the assistance of the jet 
pump, as against 18 mscf/d in 201 1 using a 
nitrogen lift. At the conclusion of the further 
testing, some 36% of the uid originally 
injected had been recovered from the 
formation. The well was then suspended 
and gauges inserted to monitor pressure 
build-up, while the results were evaluated. 
We have continued to analyse possible 
explanations for the poor performance of the 
Warblino LE-1H well when it was rst drilled 
and tested in 201 1 since, on the basis of the 
porosity and gas shows recorded while 
drilling, the well was expected to ow at a 
signi cantly higher rate. It seems likely that 
well performance was a ected by a 
mechanical issue arising from the cementing 
of the horizontal section, rather than by 
formation reservoir issues, and also that 
further drilling and testing of the Cambrian 
section will be needed in order fully to 
investigate this issue. However, the Cambrian 
section remains our secondary target, the 
primary target being the Ordovician. 
Following conclusion of the further testing on 
the Warblino LE-1H well, further testing was 
then conducted on the Ordovician interval 
in the Lebien LE-2H well, and was completed 
in December 2012. At the conclusion of the 
testing, we were very pleased to announce 
that the well had owed unassisted for a 
21-day natural ow test, owing natural gas 
at an average rate of 550 mscf/d through 3½ 
inch tubing. The well was continuing to ow 
naturally at a rate of 470 mscf/d when it was 
agreed to suspend the test, in order to 
commence a planned shut-in period and 
conduct a pressure build-up test. The well 
was also continuing to clean up throughout 
the test, and by the end of the test period 
approximately 29% of the uid used during 
the original well stimulation had been 
recovered, up from 15% at the beginning 
of the test period. 
The results from the Lebien LE-2H well 
represent a signi cant improvement on 
the results achieved when the well was rst 
tested in 201 1. On that occasion, the well 
 owed with the assistance of a nitrogen lift 
at a rate of 450-520 mscf/d, over an 8-day 
period before being shut in. Most importantly, 
the well has now demonstrated its ability to 
 ow for a 3-week period, without arti cial 
assistance. We view this as a very positive 
step-up in well productivity, and an 
encouraging starting point when considering 
possible means for achieving further 
improvements in well performance, for 
example through a di erent design of the 
lateral section or the well stimulation 
programme. The lateral section on the 
Lebien LE-2H well is no more than 1,000 
metres in length and involved a 13 stage 
hydraulic fracturing stimulation, whereas it is 
quite possible to envisage future horizontal 
wells with signi cantly longer lateral sections 
and more stages, as is common in the US. 
In December 2012, the Lebien LE-2H well 
was shut in at the end of the 21-day test for 
a planned shut-in period to record pressure 
build-up using surface and down hole 
pressure gauges. The pressure gauges have 
now been removed from the wellbore for 
analysis and a third phase of ow-testing 
on the well is planned to commence shortly, 
as described below. 
2012 drilling programme
The drilling of our fth well in the Baltic 
Basin, Strzeszewo LE-1, was completed in 
December 2012. This vertical test well was 
drilled to 3,060 metres true vertical depth 
into the Middle Cambrian interval. Some 220 
metres of whole core were recovered from 
the Lower Silurian, Ordovician and Cambrian 
intervals, and a full suite of logs was run. 
Preliminary log analysis indicates that the 
well encountered a thicker Ordovician 
section as compared with the Lebien LE-1 
and Warblino LE-1 vertical wells, and that the 
thickness of the Upper Cambrian interval is 
similar to that encountered at the Warblino 
LE-1 vertical well. A rst DFIT test was 
performed on the Cambrian section in the 
well in January 2013 and preparations are 
now being made for a well stimulation to 
be carried out on this Cambrian interval.  12
Business Review
3Legs Resources
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3Legs’ western Baltic Basin concessions
K
W
 D
3Legs’ high-graded area

K


W

CEO’s 
Strategic
Review
Continued
The rst DFIT test on the Strzeszewo LE-1 
well was completed in the rst quarter of 
2013, and preparations are under way for a 
well stimulation and test to be conducted on 
the Cambrian section in this well, to begin in 
the near future. After completion of a testing 
phase, including a shut-in period, a further 
DFIT and/or well stimulation and test will be 
considered for our primary target, the 
Ordovician section. 
Third phase of testing of Lebien LE-2H 
horizontal well
Following a technical review of the 2012 
testing of the Lebien LE-2H well, we expect 
to conduct a further phase of testing of this 
well, using a narrower velocity string 
assembly. Pressure data retrieved following 
the last test also indicated that the down-
hole pressure gauges may have become 
dislodged, creating an additional choking 
e ect. As a result, we are con dent that the 
next phase of testing, due to commence in 
the second quarter, will yield further 
improved ow data. 
Seismic acquisition
In addition to our drilling programme, a 3D 
seismic survey is planned on our Karwia 
concession, in ful lment of our licence 
obligations. This survey is expected to 
measure approximately 32 sq km and is due 
to commence in the second quarter. We are 
also discussing with ConocoPhillips the 
acquisition of 70 km of 2D seismic data on 
our Lebork concession. This will assist in the 
placement of future horizontal wells in the 
area, following conclusion of our vertical 
well programme. 
Southern Poland; other regions 
In southern Poland we acquired and 
processed approximately 50 sq km of 3D 
data on the Bytom-Gliwice and Glinica-
Psary concessions and approximately 70 km 
of 2D data on the Dabie-Laski concession, 
concluding this process in the rst quarter 
of 2012. Following interpretation of the new 
data, which showed the eastern part of the 
concession area to be more structurally 
complex than previously understood, we 
concluded that there was insu cient 
justi cation for drilling a vertical test well on 
the Dabie-Laski concession. We have now 
surrendered this concession. 
Seismic acquisition
Phase I of the PolandSPAN geological and 
geophysical research project, involving the 
acquisition of 1,090 km of new 2D seismic 
data extending across the Baltic Basin 
region, has now been completed. 
Processing of the new data is due to take 
place in the second quarter of 2013 and 
will further inform our understanding of 
the basin geology in our acreage. 
2013 exploration programme
Drilling and testing of vertical wells
The programme we have announced for 
the remainder of 2013, which we have agreed 
with ConocoPhillips, involves the continuation 
of the testing programme on the Strzeszewo 
LE-1 well, comprising DFIT and/or well 
stimulation and ow testing. We have 
also announced plans to drill two or more 
additional vertical wells on our western Baltic 
Basin concessions, within the high-graded 
area which we have already identi ed. As 
with previous vertical wells, these two wells 
will be extensively cored and logged, to be 
followed by a programme of DFIT and/or well 
stimulation and ow testing, which will run 
on into 2014. The programme is designed 
to enable us to evaluate further the ow-rate 
potential of our high-graded area, with a view 
to a decision, in 2014, on the drilling of one 
or more horizontal wells as the rst stage of 
a potential pilot development programme. 
Being vertical wells, each will o er the option 
to test multiple pay zones. The wells will also 
be designed to allow for lateral sections to 
be drilled and tested at a later date.
Planned activity to end Q2 2014  
Western Baltic Basin concessions
2013 2014
Activity Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
Strzeszewo LE-1
Drilling
DFIT, testing
First well
Drilling
DFIT, testing
Second well
Drilling
DFIT, testing
Optional well
Drilling
  
Drilling
   
DFIT/frac/testing 13
Business Review
3Legs Resources
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
We continue to consider our options 
for our remaining Bytom-Gliwice and 
Glinica-Psary concessions, including 
monetising these concessions if possible. 
We have the option to drill one vertical well 
on each of these two concessions by 
August 2013, or to relinquish the 
concessions. However, we do not currently 
plan to incur any further expenditure on 
these concessions, and we have therefore 
decided to record an impairment against 
them on our balance sheet. 
Our southern German concessions fell due 
for renewal in the second quarter of 2012 
and we have submitted applications for 
extensions. Given that our geographical 
focus is now con ned to Poland, we will 
investigate options for monetising these 
concessions if possible. 
We have had licence applications in process 
in France since 2010 and in late 2010 we had 
received indications that these applications 
would be granted in whole or in part. In 
December 2012 and January 2013, we 
received notices of rejection of these two 
applications, citing the legal moratorium on 
hydraulic fracturing which was recently 
introduced in France. We have led notices 
of appeal against both decisions, although 
we are currently considering whether it is 
appropriate to continue this process. 
Throughout the year we also reviewed a 
number of potential new opportunities for 
possible inclusion in our portfolio. However, 
none of these were pursued as they were not 
seen to meet our criteria. 
Evolution of the Polish oil and gas sector
We continue to participate actively 
in discussions regarding the future 
development of the oil and gas sector in 
Poland, particularly through our membership 
of OPPPW, the Polish Exploration and 
Production Industry Organisation. I sit as one 
of the four members of the Board of OPPPW. 
The Polish government has for some time 
been considering possible modi cations to 
the scal and licensing regime relating to the 
oil and gas sector in Poland, resulting in the 
publication of two draft laws in February 
2013. The draft legislation contemplates a 
number of changes to the existing regime, 
including: the creation of a new state-owned 
entity which would have the right to 
participate in exploration and production 
activities by private sector companies; 
increases in the tax rates applicable to 
oil and gas production; and modi cations 
to the procedures for granting and 
transferring licences.
3Legs, together with other members of 
OPPPW, is actively engaged in dialogue with 
the government in order to ensure that the 
industry’s voice is heard, and that any new 
 scal and regulatory regime that emerges 
does not act as an unnecessary deterrent 
to the development of a successful shale 
hydrocarbons sector in Poland. 
Personnel; planned organisational 
changes
During the year we announced the hiring of 
two new technical personnel, John Blair as 
Exploration Manager and Christie Schultz as 
Engineering Manager. John Blair was most 
recently employed by Knowledge Reservoir 
LLC, a technical consultancy based in 
Denver, where he was responsible for both 
the rm’s unconventional resource practice 
and its acquisition and divestiture practice 
worldwide. While at Knowledge Reservoir 
LLC, John led multi-disciplinary teams that 
assessed more than 100 unconventional 
resource plays around the world. 
Christie Schultz is an unconventional 
reservoir and completions specialist, and 
was most recently employed by Anadarko 
as a lead reservoir engineer and a production 
engineer, where she worked on shale plays 
including the Marcellus and Haynesville. 
John and Christie will provide technical 
leadership as we continue to improve our 
understanding of the Baltic Basin geology. 
Following the adoption of a more narrowly-
de ned geographic focus for the Group’s 
activities, as described in the Chairman’s 
Statement, we have reviewed our existing 
overhead expenditure to see what 
reductions may be made. During the next 
quarter we expect to implement a number 
of changes in the way the Group is 
organised and sta ed which, with e ect from 
1 July 2013, will result in a reduction in our 
cash administrative expenses, before foreign 
exchange movements, of approximately 
50% as compared with 2012.
Conclusion 
In 2012 we were able to build on our already 
signi cant progress in Poland’s Baltic Basin, 
carrying out further testing on the rst two 
horizontal shale gas wells to be drilled 
anywhere in Poland, and achieving a 
materially improved performance from 
our primary target, namely the Ordovician 
section, in our Lebien LE-2H well. While 
there remains more to be done in the 
appraisal of the Baltic Basin shale play, 
we believe we have taken a signi cant step 
forward in the direction of commerciality. 
We have also shown a continued readiness 
to trial innovative techniques in Poland, and 
to introduce best-in-class practices to a 
new market. 
Our primary focus will continue to be 
on our western Baltic Basin concessions, 
where 3Legs Resources together with 
ConocoPhillips will continue to work 
throughout 2013 on further delineating and 
understanding the geology of the target 
Ordovician section and demonstrating 
its improved ow rate potential. Following 
our planned programme of DFIT and/or 
single-stage well stimulation and testing, 
we expect to have su cient data on the likely 
potential of our high-graded area to enable 
us to reach a decision, in 2014, on the drilling 
of one or more horizontal wells as the rst 
stage of a potential pilot development 
programme. 
 
Across the rest of our portfolio, we will 
continue to high-grade our assets with a 
view to deciding which licence interests to 
maintain and pursue and/or monetise and 
which to relinquish. With £39.5 million of 
cash resources at year end, we will continue 
to manage our cash reserves prudently so as 
to ensure that su cient funding is available 
for the further de-risking of our core Baltic 
Basin asset. 
We look forward to an exciting year ahead. 
Kamlesh Parmar
Chief Executive O cer
22 March 2013
