 06
Business Review
3Legs Resources
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s 
Statement
In 2012 3Legs has continued to 
build on its pioneering achievements 
in Poland, where it remains one of the 
leaders in the exploration and appraisal 
of the country’ s shale gas potential. 
Introduction
In 2012 3Legs continued to build on its 
pioneering achievements in Poland, where it 
remains one of the leaders in the exploration 
and appraisal of the country’s shale gas 
potential. We successfully implemented our 
work programme for the year, and continued 
to play an active role in the debate on the 
future development of the shale gas sector 
in Poland. We closed the year with a strong 
cash position, ready to implement our 
exciting 2013 work programme which 
we have agreed with ConocoPhillips, 
as previously announced. 
Strategic review
Our Group strategy continues to focus 
primarily on the further de-risking and 
appraisal of our core Baltic Basin asset. 
In this, we were extremely encouraged by 
the decision by ConocoPhillips to exercise 
its option to acquire a 70% interest in our 
three western Baltic Basin licences, rst 
announced in March 2012 and completed 
in September 2012. We believe the decision 
represents an excellent vote of con dence 
by ConocoPhillips in the future potential of 
these concessions; and we continue to work 
actively in progressing our understanding of 
the basin geology, both with ConocoPhillips 
and through cooperation with other 
operators in the basin.
We have continued to high-grade our assets 
as part of a continual process of portfolio 
appraisal. In the Polish Baltic Basin this has 
resulted in our identifying a high-graded 
area, which we consider not only presents 
the lowest-risk part of our acreage for future 
exploration and appraisal activities, but also 
o ers a higher probability of success than 
was attributed to our Baltic Basin acreage at 
the time of our initial public o ering in June 
201 1. It is this area which represents the 
focus of our 2013 exploration programme. 
The last quarter of the year was marked by 
the issue, in October 2012, of a requisition 
notice by a minority shareholder, calling for 
the convening of an Extraordinary General 
Meeting to propose changes to the Board 
composition and Group strategy. 
The requisitioning shareholder was 
supported by a small number of other 
shareholders, including Damille Investments 
II Limited (“Damille”). However, we 
announced shortly afterwards, following 
discussions with the requisitioning 
shareholder, that the notice calling for the 
convening of an EGM had been withdrawn. 
The Company was able to demonstrate the 
considerable progress that had already 
been made on its Baltic Basin concessions, 
and also rea rmed its existing strategy in 
northern Poland and elsewhere. At the 
same time, the Chief Executive O cer of the 
Group stepped down and Kamlesh Parmar 
was appointed as the new Chief Executive 
O cer. The Company subsequently 
convened an EGM in December, where it 
sought and obtained the discretionary power 
to buy back its shares.
Since the year-end, there have been some 
large movements in the Company’s shares, 
including a disposal of a signi cant 
shareholding by Caithness Limited, as trustee 
for Robert Je cock (at that time one of our 


Vote of 
conﬁdence:




Tim Eggar
Chairman 07
Business Review
3Legs Resources
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Progress since IPO 
Focus has been on de-
risking and high-grading 
asset portfolio on best 
available terms
 
In Baltic Basin: 

 and tested, Lebien LE-  
 2H and Warblino LE-1H

 further 7 wells in the basin


2012 yielded valuable 
additional data
 
 programme ongoing
 
 
It has enabled 3Legs to 
attribute a higher probability 
of success to the high-graded 
part of its Baltic Basin acreage 
than at the time of its IPO
Directors), and the acquisition of further 
shares by Damille. On 27 February 2013, the 
Group received a second requisition notice, 
this time from Damille, now holding 14.2% of 
the Company’s issued share capital, calling 
for the convening of an EGM. The requisition 
notice proposes a number of ordinary 
resolutions which include: the removal of the 
majority of the Directors (being all of the 
Directors except for Kamlesh Parmar and 
Richard Hills); the appointment of certain new 
Directors being Brett Lance Miller and Rhys 
Cathan Davies (who the Board understands 
are both representatives of Damille); and the 
proposal that the Company adopt a new 
investment strategy as follows “The 
investment objective of the Company is to 
manage the realisation of the Company’s 
existing asset portfolio and to maximise the 
return of invested capital to shareholders 
during the period ending on 30 June 2015. 
During this period the Company shall not 
make any new investments other than to 
support its existing assets.”
The Company intends to post with its 
annual report and accounts a notice to all 
shareholders convening a general meeting, 
together with a shareholder circular in which 
the Board will unanimously advise 
shareholders to reject the proposed 
resolutions.
In recent weeks, we have been in 
discussions with a number of our major 
shareholders with a view to determining an 
appropriate strategy for the Group which 
re ects our current licence portfolio and 
available cash resources. Following those 
discussions, the Board has determined that 
we should limit the geographical focus of our 
activities to Poland, which is already the 
Group’s core area of activity in any case.
Board Changes
A number of Board changes were implemented 
before the end of the year and subsequently . 
Peter Clutterbuck decided to step down as 
Chief Executive O cer in October 2012, in 
order to pursue other business interests.  
Peter joined the Company before its initial 
public o ering on AIM in June 201 1. He helped 
steer the Company through its very successful 
IPO and through the period following the  
IPO, as 3Legs settled into its new life as a 
public company. We are grateful to Peter for 
the skill and experience which he brought  
to bear during a time of signi cant change  
for the Group. 
In Peter’s place, the Board appointed 
Kamlesh Parmar as Chief Executive O cer. 
Kamlesh has been with the 3Legs Group 
since its establishment in 2007 and has 
played an instrumental role in the Group’s 
development since inception. In his previous 
position with the Group, as Poland Country 
Manager and Group Commercial Director, 
he was responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s pioneering activities in Poland, 
as well as managing the very successful 
relationship with ConocoPhillips. Kamlesh 
brings huge energy and excellent judgment 
to his new position and I am sure that he will 
continue to have a very positive impact on 
the business in his new leadership role. 
We also announced the appointment 
of Richard Hills to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director, in December 2012. 
Richard brings over 30 years of experience 
in investment management and nancial 
services. He is also a Non-Executive Director 
of JP Morgan Income & Capital Investment 
Trust plc, Phaunos Timber Ltd., Cinven Ltd. 
and the Aztec Group Ltd. In addition to 
joining the Board, Richard joined the Group’s 
Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee. 
Robert Je cock and Clive Needham 
announced their resignations from the 
Board on 22 February 2013, although 
Clive Needham continues to sit on the 
board of a number of the Group’s subsidiary 
companies. Barry Rourke will be retiring by 
rotation at our forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting and has decided not to present 
himself for re-election. Robert was the 
original moving force behind the founding of 
3Legs, and he and Barry have both been 
Directors of the Company since 2007 .  The 
Board would like to record its appreciation 
of the very valuable contributions to the 
Company’s development made by both 
Robert and Barry since inception. 
Conclusion
We thank our shareholders for their 
continued support throughout the year and 
we look forward to sharing with them the 
results of our forthcoming exploration 
and appraisal programme. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman
22 March 2013
