 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 02
Potential for Growth
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that 2008 was another year of  
very strong progress for Heritage both operationally  
and in terms of positioning the Company for steady  
near- and long-term growth in shareholder value. 
Our strategy of seeking out and investing  
in exploration and early development 
opportunities with high-impact potential, while 
also expanding our exposure to European 
capital markets and the international oil and 
gas sector, is proving to be effective.
Operations
Operating highlights include world-class 
discoveries in the Albert Basin, Uganda, and 
commencement of drilling of the Miran West-1 
well in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which is now 
in the process of being tested. 
Our considerable achievements in Uganda 
include continued drilling success in Block 3A, 
highlighted by Kingfisher-2 testing at a 
combined rate of 14,364 bopd, and successful 
drilling in Block 1. Our discovery of the 
Buffalo-Giraffe field in Block 1, Uganda, is 
believed, by management, to be the largest 
onshore oil field discovered in Sub-Saharan 
Africa in the last 20 years. Exceptional results 
from Uganda drilling have established a gross 
resource of approximately 600 million barrels. 
This is above the volume considered necessary 
for major infrastructure development for the 
Albert Basin. Our Albert Basin results indicate 
the outstanding potential of this region. This 
could transform the Company, especially as  
we continue with further exploration and 
development. Having operated in Uganda since 
1997, Heritage, as operator with a 50% equity 
interest in Blocks 1 and 3A, is strongly 
positioned to be a major participant in the 
future development of this world-class resource.
Another notable highlight of 2008 was the 
excellent progress made in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq, a highly prospective, and as  
yet under-developed, oil-prone region. The 
undiscovered potential of the region has been 
estimated at 40 billion barrels of oil and 60 
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, ranking it as 
one of the most highly prospective untapped 
energy resource regions in the world. It is 
Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman
reported that the exploration success rate in 
Iraq has historically averaged over 80%. 
Heritage has been active in Kurdistan since 
2004 and we are strongly committed to the 
region. We were the second of 21 companies 
that have been awarded Production Sharing 
Contracts (“PSCs”) by the Kurdistan Regional 
Government (“KRG”) since their petroleum  
law was passed in August 2007.
On 25 March 2009 we announced drilling  
of the Miran West-1 well had completed and 
had reached a total depth of 2,935 metres.  
The well encountered oil shows over an interval  
of 1,100 metres with excellent oil shows in  
the three principal known productive reservoir 
formations in the region. We are in the process 
of undertaking a series of drill stem tests over  
a gross interval of approximately 500 metres. 
We believe our operations in this region also 
have the potential to transform the Company. 
Our commitment and enthusiasm for the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq is reflected in the 
acceleration of our programmes.
London Listing
Our most significant corporate achievement  
of 2008 was the primary listing of our shares 
on the Main Market of the London Stock 
Exchange, which was completed at the end  
of March, a move that was overwhelmingly 
supported by our shareholders. This  
listing initiative was undertaken to increase 
liquidity, unlock additional value creation  
for shareholders and also to enhance the 
Company’s status and profile among European 
investors and within the international oil and 
gas sector as a whole.
The London listing, which was followed by  
the Company’s inclusion as a member of the 
prestigious FTSE 250 Index, was accompanied 
by a reorganisation that saw the establishment 
of a new parent company, Heritage Oil Limited, 
in Jersey. Given the geographic spread of 
Heritage’s operational activities and licences,  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 03
Workers at the Miran West-1 well,   >
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
2008 was a year of 
exceptional progress for 
Heritage, and the outlook 
for 2009 and beyond is 
very encouraging.
we believed that it was appropriate for the 
Company to be domiciled in the British Isles, 
where a substantial number of investors  
and the Company’s management reside.
Also, as part of the corporate reorganisation, 
the Company’s shares were effectively split  
on a ten-for-one basis. This was designed to 
further enhance trading volumes and liquidity 
of our shares for the benefit of all shareholders.
Financial
After the Company’s success in raising 
significant amounts of capital in 2007, no 
additional financing was required in 2008. 
Heritage finished the year with a strong balance 
sheet and cash to finance planned operations  
in 2009. Nevertheless, our recent exceptional 
success means that we now intend to 
accelerate work programmes in Uganda and 
Kurdistan. With this in mind, we made a 
decision to dispose of our non-core interests in 
Oman. Oman disposal proceeds of $28 million, 
plus $400,000 in working capital adjustments, 
are to be used to fund accelerated programmes 
in our core areas. In regard to financing 
large-scale infrastructure programmes in 
Uganda, I am pleased to report that we have 
been approached by a number of parties. Initial 
proposals involve terms that would significantly 
reduce our financing requirements.
Social Responsibility
As a company that operates in remote and 
comparatively undeveloped regions of the 
world, we recognise that our responsibilities to 
local communities go beyond simply providing 
funds and local employment. We are committed 
to implementing community programmes  
in health, education, public facility and 
environmental awareness, and we work actively 
with local communities to secure trust and 
mutual co-operation. Over the course of the last 
18 months we have undertaken a significant 
investment in the Carl Nefdt Memorial Primary 
School, in Block 3A, Uganda. We intend  
to undertake similar projects in our other  
core interest areas as our operational  
activities expand.
Board of Directors
During 2008 we were delighted to welcome 
Salim Hassan Macki and General Sir Michael 
Wilkes KCB, CBE to the Group as Non-
Executive Directors. Both appointments are 
outstanding additions to the Board and both 
are already making valuable contributions to 
the Company.
Outlook
As always, I am very grateful to our talented 
management team and employees for their 
dedication and contribution to the remarkable 
growth Heritage has enjoyed this past year. 
2008 was a year of exceptional progress  
for Heritage and the outlook for 2009 and 
beyond is highly encouraging. Operations in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are 
particularly promising and we continue to look 
for further strong results from investments and 
activities in other operating areas. I would add 
that in the future, as in the past, our overriding 
objective is to create real and lasting value for 
our shareholders.
Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman
Milestones
April 2009 > Sale of Oman holdings
April 2009 > Commenced testing the 
Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq
April 2009 > Termination of a refinery 
commitment in the Kurdistan Region  
of Iraq
January 2009 > Successful completion 
of the Kingfisher-3A well, Uganda 
January 2009 > Successful Giraffe-1 
exploration well in Block 1, Uganda –  
a world class discovery
December 2008 > Commenced drilling 
the Miran West-1 well in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq
December 2008 > Successful 
completion of the Kingfisher-3 well
December 2008 > Successful Buffalo-1 
well in Block 1, Uganda
October 2008 > Successful Warthog-1 
exploration well in Block 1, Uganda
September 2008 > Commenced three 
well exploration programme in Block 1, 
Uganda 
September 2008 > Commenced drilling 
Kingfisher-3 and -3A wells in Block 3A, 
Uganda
September 2008 > Obtained 
government approval and completed 
farm-in documentation in Tanzania
August 2008 > Reported record test 
results in Uganda with the Kingfisher-2 well
June 2008 > FTSE 250 Index Inclusion
April 2008 > Commenced drilling the 
Kingfisher-2 well in Uganda
March 2008 > Dealings commenced  
on the London Stock Exchange
February 2008 > Completion of the Mali 
farm-in documentation for two licences
February 2008 > Announced corporate 
reorganisation
