 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 08
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Heritage remains 
committed to generating 
shareholder value by 
focusing on high-impact 
exploration.
What, for you, were the highlights  
of 2008?
2008 was a year of tremendous achievements 
for Heritage, both operationally and corporately. 
Operationally, we continued with the 100% 
success rate in Uganda where we discovered 
the Buffalo-Giraffe field which management 
considers to be the largest onshore discovery 
in Sub-Saharan Africa for 20 years. This 
discovery, in our operated Block 1, pushed  
the Albert Basin over the threshold required  
for a commercial development. 
In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq we accelerated 
our work programme and within only 15 
months of signing our licence we commenced 
drilling the prospective Miran West-1 well – a 
remarkable achievement highlighting the 
technical and managerial capabilities of 
Heritage.
Corporately, Heritage listed on the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange in March 2008 
and joined the FTSE 250 Index. This has been 
very advantageous for the Company, increasing 
the visibility of the Company and the liquidity of 
our shares.
How has your strategy evolved over  
the last year?
Heritage remains committed to generating 
shareholder value by focusing on high-impact 
exploration with the potential to discover 
substantial hydrocarbon reserves. Our strategy 
of realising value for shareholders within our 
own portfolio has recently been demonstrated 
by the sale of our Oman holdings for $28 
million. With this asset, Heritage had a minority 
interest in a non-operated licence with 
negligible reserves which was no longer 
considered integral to the portfolio. We believe 
that the proceeds will generate greater value 
through reinvestment in our core activity areas 
of Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
How does the Company engage  
with shareholders?
One of the aims of moving to the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange was to 
enhance the Company’s status and profile 
among European investors and within the 
international oil and gas sector as a whole. 
Communication with shareholders is given  
a high priority and we ensure there is regular 
dialogue with institutional investors, as well as 
general presentations to analysts. As a result 
we have broadened our investor base and 
increased the research coverage, giving 
Heritage an increased profile. We have also 
redesigned our website which is continually 
updated to keep investors informed of  
our activities. We also employed a full  
time investor relations specialist for the  
first time who has coordinated an effective 
investor relations programme.
What values define Heritage?
Heritage has many core values that run 
through all our activities. These include:
respecting the laws and customs of  •	
the countries in which we operate; 
supporting the communities in areas  •	
where we operate; 
promoting long-term relationships with •	
stakeholders; 
encouraging and supporting employees  •	
to play their part in creating a better 
environment; 
motivating staff to retain and attract •	
experienced employees; and
the belief that shareholders’ long-term •	
interests are best served by the pursuit  
of businesses with high standards of 
responsibility. 
What distinguishes Heritage from  
other companies within the sector?
The Company has many competitive  
strengths, including:
experienced management and technical •	
team with a track-record of finding valuable 
oil discoveries;
a geographically diversified portfolio of •	
high-impact exploration plays;
our demonstrated success as a first-mover •	
in being awarded assets in territories such 
as Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq; and
our proven track-record of realising value •	
through asset sales.
What does 2009 hold for Heritage?
2009 will be another exciting year for Heritage 
as we continue with high-impact exploration in 
our focus areas of Uganda and Kurdistan. We 
are planning on returning to Block 1 in Uganda 
later in the year with an exciting exploration 
and appraisal programme in this prolific basin. 
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq will also feature 
prominently in 2009 as we are currently testing 
the Miran West-1 well.
Do you have a message for shareholders?
Exceptional exploration success has begun  
to transform the Company within the last year 
and we have delivered on promises made in 
our Annual Report last year. Namely, we have 
exceeded the volume threshold required to 
justify development in Uganda and we have 
commenced a high-impact drilling campaign  
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Heritage  
has the ability to grow significantly over the  
coming years and we believe that we have the 
management, technical expertise and strategy 
to achieve this. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09
Heritage has the ability  
to grow significantly  
over the coming years.
