 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 04
First Mover Advantage
Chief Executive’s Review
Operational success has dramatically transformed Heritage. 
Our outstanding drilling successes in Blocks 1 and 3A  
in the Albert Basin, Uganda, mean we are now confident  
that sufficient volumes have been discovered to justify  
a major development. 
The work programme on the Miran Block in  
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq was accelerated 
following the completion of a seismic survey  
in the second quarter of 2008. The Miran 
West-1 well, which commenced drilling on 
21 December 2008, reached a total depth  
of 2,935 metres on 25 March 2009. This  
well encountered oil shows over an interval  
of 1,100 metres with excellent oil shows over 
the three targeted reservoir intervals. A series  
of tests is being performed over a gross 
interval of approximately 500 metres. These 
achievements, coupled with listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange and  
the corporate reorganisation that raised the 
Company’s profile as a significant player in  
the international oil and gas industry, puts  
us in excellent shape for the achievement  
of near- and long-term growth in production 
and reserves and also in shareholder value.
2008 was a year of extreme volatility in 
international crude oil markets, with price 
fluctuations of a magnitude never seen before. 
Fortunately, as primarily an exploration 
company with international projects in proven 
light oil basins, Heritage was not dramatically 
affected by short-term price volatility and we 
remain confident that the longer-term outlook 
for oil and gas is positive. The world will 
continue to need hydrocarbons which will 
require new production from remote and 
challenging regions. At Heritage we remain 
committed to seeking out such opportunities 
and managing political and operational risk 
with a diverse portfolio and a prudent mix of 
exploration, development and production.
Our long-standing strategy of being an early 
entrant in prospective regions, demonstrating 
our management and technical expertise,  
and our commitment to building working 
relationships with local and international 
companies and governments, gives us  
the flexibility to react quickly to changing 
circumstances.
Anthony Buckingham  
Chief Executive Officer
The combination of aggressive investment, 
prudent risk management and operating 
excellence has yielded exceptional results 
throughout 2008 and into 2009. This includes 
our discovery of the world-class Buffalo-Giraffe 
field in Block 1, Uganda where we are the 
operator with a 50% interest.
Africa
Uganda
The world-class Kingfisher field in Block 3A 
was discovered in 2007. This significant 
discovery was surpassed with the discovery  
of the large Buffalo-Giraffe field, in Block 1,  
in January 2009. On current estimates, the 
Buffalo-Giraffe field has an area of approximately 
48 square kilometres and an oil column of 140 
metres. The structure may extend even further 
to include the Buffalo East prospect, creating a 
very large structure of up to 90 square 
kilometres. Initial estimates for the Buffalo-
Giraffe field are recoverable resources of 
approximately 350 million barrels (gross), 
which is not only a major field in itself, but also 
significantly de-risks the many other potential 
targets in the block.
Operations in this basin have continued to 
achieve a 100% success rate as, to date,  
21 successful exploration and appraisal  
wells have been drilled with all encountering 
hydrocarbons. Further appraisal work on the 
Kingfisher discovery produced some exciting 
results in 2008 with a record production test, 
for any well drilled in Uganda, of 14,364 bopd. 
Additionally, the same three reservoir intervals 
were encountered in all of the wells and, 
significantly, the areal extent of the field  
was increased as oil was found structurally 
higher than anticipated in the Kingfisher-3 
appraisal well.
The Albert Basin will remain a high corporate 
priority in coming years as the recent drilling 
successes have raised the estimated  Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05
Drilling operations at Buffalo site,  >
Block 1, Uganda
resources of the basin above the threshold 
required for commercial development. This  
is transformational for Heritage. With a gross 
licence area in Uganda and the DRC in excess 
of 12,000 square kilometres – equivalent to 
approximately 55 North Sea blocks – the 
Albert Basin is now estimated to have 
multi-billion barrel reserve potential. We are 
considering a number of fast-track 
development scenarios for the Albert Basin, 
including the possibility of a phased 
development with first production in 2011 by 
utilising the existing railway network in East 
Africa. We are also considering an export 
pipeline to the coast as well as a scheme to 
service local markets. 
In addition to the Kingfisher drilling activity, 
mapping of recent seismic data has identified  
a number of prospects offshore in Lake Albert 
within the Heritage operated Block 3A, 
including the structurally attractive Pelican 
prospect and the large Crane prospect. An 
offshore drilling programme that will include 
the Crane and Pelican prospects is currently 
expected to begin in the first half of 2010.
Tanzania
Heritage farmed-in to four licence areas in 
Tanzania in mid-2008, with a total area of 
approximately 25,000 square kilometres.  
In early 2009, Heritage completed the 
acquisition of 2D seismic in-fill data on two 
blocks in Tanzania. Future drilling locations  
will be identified once the data has been 
processed and interpreted. 
The Middle East
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq is another 
primary focus area for Heritage, with the 
potential to find multi-billion barrels of  
oil. Based on excellent quality seismic  
data acquired by Heritage during 2008, 
management has confirmed that the Miran 
Block contains two anticlines that have the 
potential to contain billions of barrels of oil in 
place from multiple potential reservoir targets. 
Drilling of the Miran West-1 well began in 
December 2008, a significant accomplishment 
given that Heritage was awarded the licence 
less than 15 months prior, in October 2007. 
In March 2009, we announced drilling of  
the Miran West-1 well had completed and 
reached a total depth of 2,935 metres. The  
well encountered oil shows over an interval  
of 1,100 metres, with excellent oil shows in  
the three principal proven reservoir formations 
in the region (the Shiranish, Kometan and 
Qamchuqua). Good quality light sweet oil was 
recovered to surface as part of the drilling 
operations. A series of drill stem tests over a 
gross interval of approximately 500 metres are 
being conducted during April 2009. A further 
announcement will be made when all tests 
have been completed.
The operating environment for oil and gas 
companies in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq 
remains relatively stable and secure, and 
Heritage management believes that any 
outstanding issues between the government of 
Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government 
will be resolved satisfactorily. To that end,  
the two parties formed a series of committees 
to resolve issues. There has been considerable 
progress recently with the likelihood that first 
oil from Kurdistan will be exported this year. 
Oman
Following our exceptional success in Uganda 
and very encouraging drilling results in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, we decided to sell 
our non-core 10% interest in Block 8 in Oman 
for $28 million, plus $400,000 in working 
capital adjustments. We believe that greater 
value can be generated by using this cash to 
finance accelerated work programmes in 
Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 06
First Mover Advantage
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Recent drilling successes 
have raised the estimated 
resources of the Albert 
Basin, Uganda, above the 
threshold required for 
commercial development.
Pakistan
In December 2008, Heritage received 
government approval for a farm-in to the 
Zamzama North Block in the Sindh Zone  
(Zone lll) in southern Pakistan. Heritage is the 
operator and was awarded a 48% participating 
interest in the block. This has extended 
Heritage’s operations in Pakistan, which also 
include a 54% interest in, and operatorship of, 
the Sanjawi Block in the Baluchistan Zone 
(Zone II) in Pakistan. This block contains a 
number of large anticlinal structures which 
could be potentially significant drilling targets.
Russia
Development of the Zapadno Chumpasskoye 
Licence in western Siberia, in which Heritage 
holds a 95% equity interest, continued during 
2008. A third exploration and appraisal well 
was completed in the first half of 2008, and 
average daily oil production increased to  
379 bopd in 2008. Peak production of 900 
bopd was achieved but the field was shut-in 
between December 2008 and February  
2009 following a temporary reduction in the 
domestic oil price in Russia. Production has 
since recommenced at a level of approximately 
150 bopd but we expect this to increase over 
the year. 
In summary, Heritage has achieved 
tremendous operating success during 2008 
and early 2009, leading to a world-class oil 
discovery in Uganda and very encouraging 
results from the Miran West-1 well in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which is currently 
being tested. We also achieved increases in 
production and expanded our portfolio of 
properties. Looking ahead, we believe we have 
the financial and technical capability, combined 
with the management flexibility, to pursue 
opportunities to enhance the interests of our 
shareholders. We look forward to making 
substantial further progress and increasing 
shareholder value in both the near- and the 
long-term.
I would like to thank our staff, my fellow 
Directors and our shareholders for their 
continuing support.
Anthony Buckingham
Chief Executive Officer Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07
Kingfisher-3 drill site, Block 3A,  >
Uganda
Strategy Strengths
The Group aims to continue to generate 
growth in shareholder value by focusing 
on high-impact international plays 
that provide multiple targets with 
the potential to discover substantial 
hydrocarbon reserves. The Group’s 
growth strategy is to acquire and invest 
in exploration and early development 
opportunities throughout the world, with 
a particular emphasis on its core areas 
of Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
To be successful, the Group has 
developed a highly effective network 
of influential industry, political and 
institutional relationships. These enable 
the Group to gain access to a wide 
variety of new oil and gas business 
opportunities.
The Company’s competitive strengths 
include:
Our ability to expand a portfolio of high- >
impact international plays; in 2008  
we extended our portfolio to include 
assets in Tanzania, Mali and Pakistan
Experienced management and  >
technical teams with a track-record 
of finding valuable oil discoveries; we 
announced in January 2009 the world- 
class Buffalo-Giraffe discovery
Our position in the Albert Basin of  >
Uganda is considered by management 
to have the potential to contain over  
two billion barrels of oil reserves
Our demonstrated success as a first- >
mover in acquiring assets in territories 
such as Uganda and the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq
Our proven record of realising value  >
through asset sales; $28 million was 
raised in April 2009 through the sale  
of Eagle Energy (Oman) Limited, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Heritage
The Group aims to 
continue to generate 
growth in shareholder 
value by focusing on high-
impact international plays. 
