 14
Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
Q&A
Anthony Buckingham, CEO, answers some frequently  
asked questions about the progress and future of 
Heritage.
What, for you, were the 
highlights of 2009?
A. 2009 was a remarkable year for Heritage 
and marked another milestone in our 
development. Operational success continued 
in Uganda where we concluded our 
successful drilling campaigns in both blocks 
and in Kurdistan where we announced the 
significant Miran West-1 discovery. From a 
corporate perspective, we are in the process 
of disposing of our Ugandan interests and  
we raised $217 million through a successful 
offering of Ordinary Shares last summer. The 
proposed sale of our Ugandan interests is a 
demonstration of our ability to seek an early 
opportunity, based on our strong technical 
capability and network of relationships,  
and to successfully operate, explore and 
monetise. Delivering on our promises in this 
respect has been a wonderful achievement.
What does 2010 hold for 
Heritage?
A. 2010 will continue to be a very 
interesting year for Heritage as we have  
a diversified drilling programme and the 
financial flexibility to accelerate programme 
execution in several of our core areas. In the 
near-term the main priorities for the Group 
are to continue to drive our current portfolio 
forward with drilling in Kurdistan, Malta and 
Pakistan. 2010 will be full of many exciting 
opportunities for our Company. Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
15
Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
What are the key components 
of your strategy?
A. We aim to continue to generate growth 
in shareholder value by focusing on high 
impact international plays with the potential 
to discover significant hydrocarbon 
reserves. We look to acquire and invest  
in exploration and early development 
opportunities throughout the world, with  
a particular emphasis on our core areas 
where we have a strong technical 
understanding. By entering into regions 
early we seek to obtain a large equity 
interest and operatorship.
How would you describe the 
culture at Heritage?
A. We have an excellent track record of 
attracting and retaining talented personnel. 
All staff are encouraged to participate in the 
development of the Company. Heritage is 
an ambitious company that is moving fast. 
We attract individuals, therefore, with the 
same ambitions who want to seek out high 
impact, value creating opportunities.
 
What is the Company’s 
approach to CSR and how has 
this developed?
A. Heritage has always recognised that our 
licence to operate is closely linked to our 
adoption of CSR concepts. A key element 
of this is our approach to the conduct of  
our business matters. It is an important 
management priority to ensure that our 
relationships in the countries in which we 
operate are conducted in a transparent and 
responsible manner. Our systems in this 
area are reviewed regularly and will be an 
important responsibility of our new CSR 
committee.
We work closely with a variety of local 
stakeholders in the areas where we operate. 
We aim to ensure that the economic value 
generated by our operations is applied to 
address important aspects of local need. 
We have worked closely with the local 
authorities in Uganda to develop important 
health, educational and economic 
infrastructure projects. For example, we 
have built a school and a potable water 
project for the local villagers. We aim to 
apply our experience in Uganda to the other 
parts of the world in which the company 
operates. This approach is already being 
reflected in a number of our activities in 
Kurdistan.
What distinguishes Heritage 
from its peers?
A. The Company has many competitive 
strengths including:
a strong balance sheet; >
a proven management team; >
strong and established technical  >
expertise;
a geographically diversified portfolio of  >
high impact exploration plays; and
well-established connections in all areas  >
in which we operate.
How does the Company engage 
with shareholders?
A. The Chairman, with input from the 
Senior Independent Director, is responsible 
for ensuring effective communication of 
shareholders’ views to the Board as a whole 
and will update the Board accordingly.  
We employ an investor relations specialist 
and an investor relations programme is in 
place for Executive Directors and senior 
management to meet with institutional 
investors in European and North American 
cities. The website is updated continually  
to keep investors informed of our activities.
Do you have a message for 
shareholders?
A. The Company has an excellent track 
record built over many years, one that we 
continue to live up to. Since we listed in 
London in March 2008, we have enjoyed 
incredible success. We have delivered on 
our promise to generate shareholder value, 
expand analyst coverage and to increase 
liquidity and we are firm in the knowledge 
that we have the right people and the right 
assets to allow us to continue to deliver high 
impact results for our shareholders. 
Drilling operations at the 
Kingfisher-2 well, Uganda
