 12
Business Review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT
2009 saw further 
significant operational 
success and corporate 
developments in our core 
assets in Uganda and 
Kurdistan propelling 
Heritage forward into a 
new phase as we enter a 
new decade. 
We are demonstrating the success of our 
strategy as a first-mover by the proposed 
monetisaton of our Ugandan interests and 
are considering many new opportunities 
with the potential to generate value for our 
shareholders.
After reaching five-year lows, equity markets 
saw a recovery during 2009. Brent Oil prices 
moved up from the low of $36.40 per barrel 
in January 2009 to a high of $79.20 per 
barrel in November 2009 and the outlook for 
the oil and gas markets remains positive. 
Leading figures around the world 
acknowledge that demand for hydrocarbons 
will continue to increase as both populations 
and economies grow. Since much of the 
“easy oil” has already been discovered, it is 
frontier exploration that will be required to 
satisfy this growth. These areas often come 
with their challenges which we consider we 
are well equipped to manage through our 
experienced management and technical 
teams and our proven operating capability. 
Uganda
At the beginning of 2009, we announced  
the successful Giraffe discovery in Block 1, 
Uganda, adding to our previous discoveries in 
the block, Warthog and Buffalo. Pressure and 
seismic data indicate that the Giraffe discovery 
is structurally connected to the Buffalo Field, 
creating a combined Buffalo-Giraffe Field 
covering approximately 48 square kilometres 
with an oil column of approximately 
140 metres. This was a pivotal discovery that 
confirmed the viability of the Albert Basin as a 
commercial oil basin. The success of our 
multi-well programme, which began in 
October 2008, is evident with net contingent 
resources that have been estimated at 250 
million barrels. 
In February 2009, we completed the drilling 
of the successful Kingfisher-3A sidetrack well 
which appraised the Kingfisher discovery in 
Block 3A. This well intersected all three 
Kingfisher reservoir intervals encountered in 
the Kingfisher-1A and -2 wells. All three 
Kingfisher wells have been suspended as 
future producers. 
Since discovering the Kingfisher Field in  
2007 , net contingent resources in Heritage 
operated Blocks 1 and 3A have been 
estimated at 355 million barrels with a value 
of $1.126 billion, based on a discount rate 
of 10%.
Kurdistan
Kurdistan remains a core area for Heritage. 
Since signing the licence in October 2007 , we 
have shot seismic, drilled a discovery well on 
the Miran West structure and are currently 
drilling the Miran West-2 well. This is a huge 
achievement demonstrating our commitment 
to the region and confirming the high level of 
operational expertise within Heritage. 
The Miran West-1 exploration well 
commenced drilling on 21 December 2008 
and initial testing operations completed in  
May 2009. A gross oil bearing column of 
approximately 700 metres was discovered and 
the oil in place for the field has been estimated 
to be approximately 3.4 billion barrels with net 
combined contingent and prospective 
resources totalling approximately a billion 
barrels. Excellent recoveries, of between 
50–70%, are expected from the fractured 
carbonate reservoirs, based on fracture 
porosity alone. During testing operations, 
concluded in August 2009, the Miran West-1 
well flowed at a maximum rate of 3,640 bopd 
from a single reservoir interval. 
We announced in April 2010 that the Miran 
West-2 appraisal well had intersected 
hydrocarbon-bearing intervals over 
approximately 1,800 metres within the 
Cretaceous formations. Three zones, 
determined from logging, within the 
Cretaceous formations have been identified  
for testing once drilling operations have 
completed. 
The well is being deepened to approximately 
4,600 metres to explore further potential in the 
underlying Jurassic and Triassic structures. 
These exploration targets have the potential to 
contain substantial volumes of additional 
hydrocarbons. We are planning to acquire 3D 
seismic over the Miran Block in the second 
Anthony Buckingham
Chief Executive Officer Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
13
Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
half of 2010 to enable further appraisal drilling 
to encounter the fracture networks efficiently. 
The Miran West-1 well has previously 
demonstrated that where open fractures are 
encountered in wells the reservoir will support 
potential production rates of approximately 
10,000 bopd. 
Future plans for drilling of the Miran East-1 
exploration well are progressing and we are 
looking to contract a rig for later this year.
Russia
The Zapadno Chumpasskoye Field is located 
in Western Siberia. Approval was received at 
the end of 2009 for a Field Development Plan 
to enable us to commence horizontal drilling 
to improve the recovery efficiency and also to 
enhance the economics of the field. The field 
was shut in for most of the first quarter of 
2009 following a temporary reduction in 
domestic oil prices in Russia. After 
production restarted, measures were 
undertaken to increase output to the current 
production rate of approximately 650 bopd.
Financial and Corporate
With the disposal of the Oman operations  
in April 2009, oil production and revenue  
is now generated from the Zapadno 
Chumpasskoye Field in Russia. Heritage’s  
net production decreased by 13% to an 
average of 329 bopd during 2009, compared 
to 2008, as a result of the field being shut in 
during 2009. 
During 2009, our liquidity was enhanced 
through two initiatives. Firstly, in April 2009, 
$28.4 million was realised through the sale of 
Eagle Energy (Oman) Limited (“Eagle Energy”). 
Secondly, in June 2009, 25.4 million new 
Ordinary Shares were placed successfully at a 
price of £5.20 per share for total gross 
proceeds of $217 million.
In November 2009, we announced that a 
Letter of Intent (“LOI”) had been signed with 
ENI International B.V. (“Eni”) to sell our 
Ugandan interests for up to $1.5 billion. In 
December 2009 a Sale and Purchase 
Agreement (the “SPA”) was executived with 
Eni. Subsequently, Tullow Uganda Limited, 
our partner in the blocks, exercised its right of 
pre-emption on the same terms and 
conditions as agreed with Eni. In April 2010, 
we announced that we had received a letter 
from the Ugandan Government stating that it 
supports Heritage’s sale and transfer of its 
Ugandan interests and that it will conclude its 
review of the transaction within eight weeks. 
Following this, Heritage expects to receive 
formal consent and to close the transaction 
shortly thereafter.
On completing the disposal we will have 
operations in seven countries and some of 
the disposal proceeds will be used to 
accelerate exploration, appraisal and 
development of these areas. Furthermore, 
Heritage will have the financial flexibility to 
participate in opportunities to generate 
further value for shareholders.
Other 2010 Operations 
Operations are planned to expand in Malta this 
year with the acquisition of 1,000 kilometres 
of seismic and the drilling of an exploration 
well. Heritage has already identified a number 
of large targets from over 3,500 kilometres of 
seismic acquired when the Company was 
awarded the Malta licences at the end of 2007 .
In Pakistan, we are in the process of acquiring 
infill seismic in the Zamzama North Block. The 
current seismic database used to map the 
Zamzama North Block comprises some 750 
kilometres of fair to good quality, 2D seismic. 
On the basis of this data we have mapped a 
number of structural leads. An exploration well 
is planned to be drilled in the second half of 
this year following interpretation of the current 
seismic programme.
Genel Enerji A.S.
In June 2009, Heritage announced that it had 
entered into a non-binding Memorandum of 
Understanding with Genel Enerji A.S. (“Genel”) 
to acquire the entire share capital of Genel 
Energy International Limited (“Genel Energy”). 
In November 2009, after signing a LOI with  
Eni for the sale of our Ugandan interests, 
discussions with Genel were terminated  
before the terms of a definitive agreement  
had been settled.
Operating Capability
We are proud of both our environmental and 
safety records. We have continued our goal 
of pursuing operational excellence and have 
achieved the challenging goals set for last 
year. In addition, we have also maintained 
an excellent track record of no significant 
environmental issues. Last year’s lost time 
incident frequency rate was well below 
industry average and was achieved at a 
time when Heritage’s operational scope 
increased significantly. 
Outlook
2010 is set to be another significant year  
for Heritage. We have never been stronger 
financially and we believe that we have a  
very valuable and prospective portfolio  
which will see high impact drilling in 
Kurdistan, Malta and Pakistan. Capital 
expenditures in 2010 are expected to be 
approximately $155 million, of which 
approximately $100 million will be allocated  
to exploration and appraisal activities and 
approximately $55 million to production and 
development activities.
In summary, 2010 promises to be a year  
of significant change for Heritage as we 
increase production, continue with high 
impact exploration and look for further 
exciting opportunities for our portfolio. 
 
As always, I am very grateful to our talented 
management team and employees and 
supportive Board for their dedication and 
contribution to the remarkable progression 
made by Heritage this past year. 
Finally, to our shareholders, thank you for your 
continued support and interest in Heritage.
Anthony Buckingham
Chief Executive Officer
Operations at Miran West-1, 
Kurdistan
