 08
Overview
COMPANY
OVERVIEW
Overview
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that 
2009 has been another 
momentous year for 
Heritage. We have 
crystallised value with the 
disposal of our Omani 
interests and the proposed 
disposal of our Ugandan 
interests. We are now 
moving forward into a 
new chapter of core area 
activities.
It is with some sadness that we prepare to 
leave Uganda, but this is countered with 
pride that we have left a lasting legacy 
which has benefited people in our 
concession areas and has established a 
hydrocarbon future capable of supporting 
infrastructure and industrial development. 
This will have lasting benefits for the people 
of Uganda. We have established a solid 
base for other companies to build upon and 
we fully expect new entrants into Uganda to 
continue with the numerous corporate 
social responsibility (“CSR”) programmes 
that we have initiated and pursued with 
enthusiastic support from Ugandans 
individually and from the Ugandan 
Government. 
As we prepare to dispose of our interests in 
Uganda, which has been a core area of 
focus for us, it seems appropriate to reflect 
briefly on the evolution of Heritage. We 
listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange at the 
beginning of 1999 with a market 
capitalisation of less than $15 million and 
assets focused in Uganda and Congo. 
Through our own initiatives and technical 
expertise, combined with excellent strategic 
guidance, Heritage has evolved into a 
company with a market capitalisation at 
year end of $2.0bn with an extensive 
portfolio of core assets focused on Africa, 
the Middle East and Russia.
Heritage was the pioneering company in the 
Albert Basin. Entering Uganda in 1997, 
Heritage was the first company to explore 
for and operate Ugandan oil and gas 
interests in almost 60 years. Our entry into 
the region was exploration-led because we 
believed, from the geology, that it had the 
potential to be a significant oil basin. Our 
first licence covered the original Block 3. We 
were active on our licence for four years 
before Energy Africa farmed into our 
acreage. In 2004, part of Block 3 was 
relinquished and Block 3A, which covered 
most of the exploration acreage in the 
original Block 3, was re-licenced along with 
Block 1 at the northern end of the basin. 
Over the last 13 years we have carried out 
extensive work in the basin. Since 2006, we 
have drilled six wells on our licences, all of 
which have found hydrocarbons. The two 
wells tested in our licence areas each 
produced at rates in excess of 12,000 bopd. 
In addition to new field discoveries, we  
also established many other leads and 
prospects in our licence areas which 
have confirmed the Albert Basin to have 
multi-billion barrel resource potential. 
Our operations in Uganda have adhered 
consistently to CSR policies which we are 
now beginning to extend to our other core 
area holdings as work commences in these 
new areas. We expect to achieve significant 
value accretion for our shareholders in a 
work environment that benefits local 
populations and establishes legacy assets 
that sustain long-term benefits for the 
countries in which we are working.
Operations
Uganda
In 2009, in Uganda, we continued building 
on successes achieved in 2008. The Giraffe 
discovery in Block 1, at the beginning of 
2009, allowed us to exceed comfortably the 
required commercial threshold for 
development. This enabled us to progress 
methodically with our work with the 
Government of Uganda to plan for an early 
phased development, based initially on our 
Kingfisher discovery in Block 3A and 
progressing to commercialisation of 
the Albert Basin. 
Kurdistan
Heritage commenced drilling the Miran 
West-1 well in December 2008, less than  
15 months after being awarded the licence, 
demonstrating both the Company’s 
operational efficiency and our commitment 
to the region. Initial testing operations 
concluded in May 2009. The Miran Field has 
been estimated to have oil-in-place of 
3.4 billion barrels. Further testing on the 
Miran West-1 well indicated that it could 
produce at between 8,000–10,000 bopd. 
Michael J. Hibberd
Chairman MARKET CAPITALISATION 
a T YEa R En D, $m
Ca SH a T YEa R En D, 2009
$208m
1999
13
752
2,025
2009 2008
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview Overview
09
Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
We announced in April 2010, that the Miran 
West-2 appraisal well had intersected 
significant hydrocarbon-bearing intervals 
over approximately 1,800 metres within the 
Cretaceous formations. The well is now 
drilling down to the deeper Jurassic  
and Triassic exploration targets with the 
potential to contain substantial volumes  
of additional hydrocarbons.
Combined Code of Corporate Governance
We recognise our responsibility to 
shareholders for the Company’s standard 
of governance and we also recognise the 
importance of maintaining responsible 
corporate governance practices. I am 
pleased to advise our shareholders that  
we have made further progress during the 
year to advance our adherence to the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
published in 2008 (the “Combined Code”).
In 2009, General Sir Michael Wilkes was 
appointed Senior Independent Director to 
comply with the Combined Code. His 
chief responsibility is to maintain sufficient 
contact with major shareholders to help 
develop a balanced understanding of their 
issues and concerns. In this role, General 
Sir Michael Wilkes is available to 
shareholders who have concerns 
that have not been, or cannot be, resolved 
through discussion with the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial 
Officer or where such contact 
is inappropriate. 
Other significant developments during 
2009 and early 2010 included establishing 
a performance evaluation process for the 
Board and Board committees and for the 
Chairman, developing a formal framework 
for remuneration policy across the 
Company, confirming no annual bonuses 
would be paid to the Non-Executive 
Directors, undertaking an independent 
review of Executive Directors’ 
remuneration, developing the Company’s 
processes for reviewing key risks, internal 
controls and assessments, initiating 
processes for reviewing Director 
appointment and succession planning, 
establishing a Reserves Committee and 
establishing a CSR Committee. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
We remain committed to adhering to our 
CSR policies and recognise the importance 
of engaging with local stakeholders at an 
early stage. The framework of our CSR 
policy has been refined through our 
experiences in Uganda where we have 
worked diligently with stakeholders to allay 
potential concerns arising from our activities 
and to address needs and requirements in  
a way that establishes a respected local 
reputation and identity for us. We believe 
that our active, ongoing involvement in 
community projects in Uganda and 
Kurdistan is fundamental in developing  
and maintaining strong relationships within 
these regions. 
Outlook
Kurdistan remains a focus area for Heritage 
this year. As we continue with drilling on the 
Miran West structure and in the second half 
of the year plan to start exploration drilling 
on the Miran East structure, we expect to 
confirm the enormous potential of the Miran 
Block. 2010 will also bring to the fore a new 
set of projects and initiatives based on 
seismic and drilling campaigns in Malta and 
Pakistan scheduled for the second half of 
the year. 
The Board believes that Heritage, with its 
technical and financial strengths, will 
continue to identify further attractive growth 
opportunities. The portfolio of assets within 
Heritage offers shareholders geographical 
diversification combined with a mix of 
exploration, development and production. 
This, together with a strong financial base, 
positions Heritage perfectly to pursue 
exciting opportunities. 
Our management team has a track record 
of creating value for shareholders and holds 
a strong determination to continue that 
Drilling operations, 
Kurdistan
successful track record. Development of 
our Company could not have been achieved 
without the determination, commitment and 
dedication of our management team and 
our staff, together with contractors and 
suppliers. The Board thanks them all for 
their continued efforts and professionalism. 
Michael J.Hibberd
Chairman  10
BUSINESS
REVIEW
12 Chief Executive’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Q&A
16 Strategy
17 Reserves and Resources
18 Operations Overview
20 Kurdistan
22 Malta
23 Pakistan
24 Democratic Republic of Congo
25 Tanzania
26 Mali
27 Russia
28 Uganda
30 Financial Review
34 Principal Risks
38 Corporate Social Responsibility
Kingfisher-2 well, Lake Albert, Uganda Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
11
Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
