 02	 Hexagon Human Capital Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Management
Consulting
Consumer and Retail
Industrial
Retail Financial Services
Professional and
Business Services
Media
Consumer
Financial Services
Pharmaceutical
Life Sciences
Biotechnology
UK’s No. 1 provider
of Senior Interim
Executives
Interim Executive
Management
Executive Search
Banking
Executive Search
A professional service provided to companies 
and organisations that need to attract, hire  
and develop individuals for key positions. Our  
search consultants work closely with clients  
to agree the job specification and then, working  
in tandem with our specialist research teams, 
identify, qualify and present the best candidates. 
Assignments are usually on a retained basis. 
Interim Executive Management
Interim Executive Management is one of the 
fastest growing sectors within the Human 
Capital Services industry. We provide senior 
level, experienced professionals on short to 
medium term (3–18 months) assignments. The 
purpose of these assignments, often working 
closely with the board of our client company, 
is usually to implement change or to manage 
specific projects.
At a glance
Group structure at 31 March 2007 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Hexagon Human Capital Plc 03
Our businesses focus on the following sectors  
and service areas:
Management Consulting and Banking
Acumen is an Executive Search company specialising in the management consulting and banking  
sectors focused on financial services, public sector and technology consulting.
Acumen is a 70% owned subsidiary established by Hexagon in January 2005; key clients  
of Acumen include Ernst & Young, Deloitte and Deutsche Bank.
•
•
Consumer and Retail, Industrial, Retail Financial Services, Professional and Business Services
Oxygen works with clients in these specialist sectors with a primary focus on assignments  
in General Management; Human Resources; Finance; Sales & Marketing. It specialises in  
board and senior executive appointments in the £100,000 to £300,000 salary bracket.
Oxygen clients include Aviva, Associated British Foods, Centrica, Smiths Group 
and PwC.
•
•
Media and Consumer
Roberts & Corr specialises in International Board Level Search in the media, consumer,  
communications and technology markets, and is currently expanding into the financial  
services sector.
Roberts & Corr has a number of high profile clients including easyJet, AS Watson, 
Littlewoods and Channel 4 Television.
•
•
Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences
Euromedica is Europe’s leading provider of International Executive Search for pharmaceutical and  
life sciences companies, placing candidates into senior management and executive positions  
including board appointments.
Euromedica has long-standing client relationships with a number of the world’s leading 
pharmaceutical and life sciences companies and is regularly involved in delivering 
cross-border European assignments.
•
•
Interim Executive Management
BIE is the UK’s No.1 Interim Executive Management provider for senior-level roles. This ranking  
has been independently confirmed by Executive Grapevine for each of the last five years. 
BIE provides Interim Executive Management and Change Management executives  
to PLCs, private companies, Government, Not-For-Profit organisations, private  
equity and venture capital firms for assignments in the UK and overseas.
•
•
