 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Hexagon Human Capital Plc 05
Jo Nat Ha N	w RIGHt
CHIeF exe CUTIve
“This has been a pivotal period in the development of Hexagon, following four  
acquisitions, a start up business and the admission of the Company to AIM.  
With the pace of the Interim Executive Management market growing at a faster  
rate than the recruitment market we believe that we are well positioned to  
deliver strong growth both by attracting  further acquisitions and through the  
development of our existing businesses.”
Introduction	 Hexagon was founded in the middle of 2004 
with a strategy to become one of the UK’s 
leading providers of Senior Management 
talent. In the short time since then we have 
established ourselves as the No.1 provider  
of Senior Interim talent through the 
acquisition of BIE in December 2006 and 
through the acquisition of three specialist 
businesses and the establishment of a fourth 
we have developed a business that ranks in 
the top 15 UK Executive Search businesses. 
Our multi-sector multi-branded approach has 
been successful in supplying board level and 
senior management talent to a broad client 
base including around 30% of the FTSE 100. 
Through our acquisition and investment 
strategy we are established ourselves as  
an exciting partner for high performing 
management teams in the sector and the 
calibre of our management team will be 
a major driver of our success. 
This has been a pivotal period in the 
development of Hexagon, following four 
acquisitions and a start up, we brought the 
Group to AIM in February 2007. We are the 
only business of our type on AIM and we are 
the only quoted major Interim Executive 
Management business.
We have established a clear identity and 
culture, forging partnerships with the 
management of our businesses based  
on shared ownership and a common 
commitment to deliver customer and 
shareholder value in equal measure. Our 
objectives are clear and are embedded 
across our organisation: to become Europe’s 
leading provider of Senior Interim Executives 
and to build a top 10 European Executive 
Search business. 
business	review	 On a unaudited proforma annualised basis 
(including the results of all acquired businesses 
for the whole 12 month period), the Group 
achieved strong growth in both its Interim 
Executive Management and Executive Search 
divisions reaching NFI for the year of £14.5m 
compared to £12.7m in the previous year, 
growth of 14%. We maintained our ability for 
strong NFI to EBITA conversion delivering 
EBITA (before amortisation and IPO costs) of 
£4.4m, a margin of 30% on this unaudited 
proforma basis. At the operating level (before 
central costs) this translates to operating profit 
of £5.5m, a margin of 38%. 
In the year to 31 March 2007 our Interim 
Executive Management division grew NFI from 
£5.4m to £6.1m, an increase of 12% and EBITA 
from £2.5m to £3.3m, an increase of 34%. 
Similarly, in the year our Executive Search 
division grew NFI from £7.3m to £8.4m, an 
increase of 15% and grew EBITA from £1.8m 
to £2.2m, an increase of 22%. 
It is particularly pleasing to report very strong 
consultant productivity figures with an average 
of £550k of NFI per consultant across the Group 
broken down as £1.2m per consultant in our 
Interim Executive Management division and 
£430k in our Executive Search division. We 
believe that these figures are amongst the 
highest in the industry. 
BIE our senior level Interim Executive 
Management business has been ranked No. 1  
in the UK by Executive Grapevine for each of the 
last five years. Under the long term leadership 
of Martin Wood BIE has become one of the 
strongest brands in the industry. Demand for 
high quality senior interim executives remains 
strong and we maintain that this is the fastest 
growing part of the human capital market.  
We will retain our significant investment in 
advertising and marketing which will continue 
to drive opportunity and leading interim 
executives towards BIE. Since the start of the 
current financial year we have embarked on a 
recruitment campaign to increase the size  
of our consulting workforce. 
Chief executive’s statement
“Interim Executive Management 
will become an increasingly 
significant enabler for corporate 
change and development in the 
future. We see it as the fastest 
growing part of the human capital 
market with supplier fees growing 
from their current position of 
around £50m p.a. to over £100m 
p.a. in the next four years. As the 
market leader in the UK, Hexagon 
is well placed to increase its 
market share across Europe 
throughout this period.” 06	 Hexagon Human Capital Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
“Our objectives are clear and are embedded across our organisation;  
to become Europe’s leading provider of Senior Interim Executives  
and to build a top 10 European Executive Search business.”
“BIE has maintained its position as the No. 1 
provider of Senior Interim Executive Managers  
in the UK for each of the last five years. By 
becoming part of Hexagon we are now on a 
course to consolidate that position and lead 
the Interim Executive Management market 
across Europe.”
Ma Rt IN	w oo D
MAn Ag Ing d IReCTOR,
bIe In TeRIM exe CUTIve
“Acumen prides itself on innovation and its ability 
to source talent for clients from previously 
untapped sources. Hexagon’s support, not just 
in terms of finance, but as a key supporter of our 
strategy is fundamental to the success of our 
young company.”
MIke 	D ea Ne
MAn Ag Ing d IReCTOR,
ACUMen
Our strategy within Executive Search is to  
offer an alternative to the global single 
branded providers by developing a portfolio  
of specialist brands that offer clients in depth 
subject matter expertise in their sector. We 
believe that this strategy enables us to develop 
a broad client portfolio with little or no 
conflicts and allows us to attract top quality 
talent in each sector towards our Group. 
In 2006 we acquired Euromedica, the 
European market leader in pharmaceutical 
and life sciences, as well as Roberts & Corr, 
the media, consumer and financial services 
specialist. These companies join our other 
specialist businesses Oxygen, specialising  
in industry and commerce, and Acumen,  
a management consulting and banking 
specialist. Across our portfolio we transacted 
with over 140 clients including 20 of the FTSE 
100 and two of the world’s largest professional 
services firms. We were responsible for main 
board appointments into two FTSE 100 
companies as well as placing partners into 
two Big Four professional services clients. 
During the year we were able to attract high 
quality consultants from a number of our 
competitors and we anticipate our multi-
branded and empowered strategy will enable 
this to continue through the coming year. 
acquisitions	 In May 2006 we acquired the specialist 
pharmaceutical and life sciences Executive 
Search business Euromedica from the Carlisle 
Staffing Group for a net acquisition cost 
(goodwill) of £1.9m. Based on the generation 
of £0.5m EBIT p.a., the net acquisition cost 
represents an EBIT multiple of 3.8.
In June 2006 we acquired the specialist 
Executive Search firm Roberts & Corr for  
a net acquisition cost (goodwill) of £3.4m, 
subject to performance. Based on the 
generation of £0.8m EBIT p.a., the net 
acquisition cost represents an EBIT  
multiple of 4.3. 
In December 2006 we acquired BIE, the  
UK’s leading provider of Senior Interim 
Executives. This business was acquired for  
a net acquisition cost (goodwill) of £20.8m, 
subject to performance to June 2009. Based  
on the achievement of the target levels of 
EBIT performance over the earn-out period, 
the total consideration represents an EBIT  
multiple of 5.5. 
Performance	management	and	 	 staff	retention
We are continually working to find performance 
improvements across our businesses and to 
improve the efficiency of our administration 
and support services. The effect of these 
programmes is evident in our ability to maintain 
margins at their present premium levels. 
Our rapid emergence as a market leader in 
the provision of senior talent has created a 
strong employer brand and we continue to 
attract selected high quality fee earning talent 
from our competitors as well as from new 
entrants into our sector. As a Group we are 
increasing our investment in programmes 
designed to attract new talent and we have 
clear metrics in place to measure and control 
the effects of these programmes. Our 
empowered and success driven culture as 
well as the wide ownership of equity and 
options across the Group has lead to us 
having minimal attrition amongst our fee 
earning staff in the period. 
Chief executive’s statement continued Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Hexagon Human Capital Plc 07
“Our rapid emergence as a market leader in the provision of senior  
talent has created a strong employer brand and we continue  
to attract selected high quality fee earning talent from our 
competitors as well as from new entrants into our sector.”
“With the support of Hexagon, Oxygen has  
grown successfully in 2006/7 and is now firmly 
positioned as an established search partner to 
many blue-chip organisations. Our strengths 
continue to be the sector/functional expertise of 
our partners and our minimal off-limits issues.”
Ia N	 lloy D
MAn Ag Ing d IReCTOR,  
Oxygen exe CUTIve se ARCH
“We are out and out life sciences experts and 
that is why Hexagon’s strategy of developing  
an empowered group of specialist firms works  
so well for us. As a group, we get good breadth, 
good characteristics and create an environment 
where we can develop at our own pace.”
DR	P ete R	 woo Ds
MAn Ag Ing d IReCTOR,
eUROMed ICA
“Our account management programme has 
positioned us to deliver a number of very high 
profile assignments from the most exciting UK 
and international clients. Being part of Hexagon 
has enriched our offering, and enables us to 
meet a much broader spectrum of our clients’ 
recruitment needs.”
CINDy 	IR v INe
MAn Ag Ing d IReCTOR,
RObeRTs & CORR
The Board reviews a series of Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) monthly. 
These metrics are designed to provide  
a graphical overview of the operating 
performance (both financial and non-
financial) for each business of the Group.  
They include the following:
Update on actions agreed in each 
business plan.
NFI and EBIT performance vs budget  
(month and cumulative).
Movement in interim assignments
NFI per consultant vs budget.
Average assignment value vs budget.
New business won vs budget.
Through a detailed focus on these KPIs we 
are able to manage business performance 
and track trends that may alert management 
to potential future issues or opportunities.
As our Group matures, our management 
structure will evolve. We have formed an 
operating board that is working to ensure  
that we exploit every opportunity to create 
incremental business from our 263 strong 
customer base, as well as to develop 
succession plans for our current business 
leaders. 
Group	strategy	 Our five investments to date are being 
integrated into the Group. Our priority now 
is to leverage our market leadership in  
Senior Interim Executive Management 
by increasing the size and scope of our 
consulting workforce and by identifying 
selected acquisitions that will complement 
our current position. 
A fundamental component of our strategy 
has been the development of an integrated 
sales programme, presenting our clients with 
leadership talent solutions by offering both 
interim and permanent senior management.
•
•
•
•
•
•
I am pleased to report that since the 
acquisition of BIE in December 2006, we have 
created over £250k of incremental NFI in our 
Interim Executive Management business 
through opportunities sourced by our 
Executive Search businesses. 
In addition to the development of our Senior 
Interim offering we will continue to develop 
the scope of our Executive Search business 
so that we can more fully meet our clients‘ 
leadership talent needs. This programme will 
see the Group introduce new fee earning 
teams into additional sectors and specialisms 
as well as pursuing selected acquisitions, 
the acquisition of Archer Mathieson Ltd on
3 August 2007 being evidence of this strategy 
(see note 27 on page 33).
The past year has seen our multi-branded 
portfolio approach achieve strong growth  
but at the same time provide solid defensive 
capabilities to see out short term fluctuations 
in individual markets. The extension of this 
approach will further enhance these 
defensive characteristics. 
Our rapid progress over the last two years  
has seen the Group deliver solutions to an 
increasingly international client base. To gain 
further market share the Board has to give 
serious consideration to the development of 
its international capabilities. Our work in this 
area will follow the same principles as our 
UK investment work and we will only make 
investments in non-UK areas where we 
believe the value to shareholders will match 
or exceed the value being generated in 
the UK. 
Jonathan	w right	 Chief Executive Officer 
7 August 2007
