 04	 Hexagon Human Capital Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Robe Rt 	 walke R
n On-exe CUTIve CHAIRMAn
“ Growth will be achieved through the application of our  
buy and build model and the organic development  
of our portfolio of operations.”
acquisitions	 completed	 in	 the	 period     Net 
     acquisition
 Unaudited proforma* cost 
Acquisition Sector Specialism NFI  EBIT (goodwill)** 
BIE Interim Executive General Industry  £6.1m  £3.3m  £20.8m
 Management
Euromedica Executive Search Pharma and Life  £3.4m £0.5m £1.9m
  Sciences    
Roberts & Corr Executive Search  Media, Consumer and  £1.6m £0.8m £3.4m 
  Financial Services  
 
* Unaudited proforma results for the year to 31 March 2007.
** Subject to future EBIT performance. 
Chairman’s statement
Introduction	 I am pleased to present to shareholders the 
Group’s first results since the admission of 
Hexagon Human Capital Plc (Hexagon) to 
AIM in February this year. The 15 months
to 31 March 2007 was a period of significant 
progress for Hexagon with three acquisitions 
being completed in addition to the IPO. 
Hexagon’s businesses have performed 
strongly during the period with its portfolio
of businesses delivering quarter on  
quarter growth. 
Results	 Reported turnover for the period to 31 March 
2007 increased significantly from £2.4m to 
£10.9m through a combination of strong organic 
growth and the acquisitions of Euromedica Ltd, 
Roberts & Corr Ltd and BIE Interim Executive Ltd 
the UK’s leading provider of Senior Interim 
Executive Management. 
The Group’s operating profit before interest, 
amortisation of goodwill and IPO costs also 
increased significantly from £0.4m to £2.2m. 
More notably, on a unaudited proforma 
annualised basis, Net Fee Income increased  
by 14% to £14.5m (2006: £12.7m) and it  
was converted at 30% to operating profit,  
after central administration costs but before 
amortisation and IPO costs, of £4.4m  
(2006: £3.5m). 
The Group’s balance sheet at 31 March 2007 
was strong, with net current assets of £4.2m 
(2005: net current liabilities £0.9m). Net cash 
was £0.1m (2005: net debt £0.7m).
acquisitions	 During the period the acquisitions of 
Euromedica and Roberts & Corr have 
strengthened the Group’s portfolio of niche 
search consultancies. The acquisition of  
BIE, the market leading Interim Executive 
Management business, has significantly 
enhanced our revenue visibility.
a IM	IP o	
In February 2007, Hexagon’s shares were 
admitted to trading on AIM. At that time the 
Group raised £10m before expenses from a 
placing of new shares which will be applied
to deliver growth through acquisitions and 
organic initiatives. I would like to take this 
opportunity to welcome new shareholders
to the Company. 
Current	trading	 All the markets in which the Group operates 
continue to be buoyant and the new financial 
year has started strongly. We are particularly 
encouraged by the strength of the  
Interim Executive Management market  
which according to most observers is  
growing more quickly than the general  
human capital market. The Group’s portfolio 
of search consultancies which operate in  
a variety of sectors are benefiting from a 
number of new assignments and trading is  
in line with directors’ expectations. 
Dividend	 Given the one-off charges to profits in the 
period, the Board is unable to propose a 
dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007. 
In the future, as outlined in our AIM admission 
document, the dividend policy will be 
considered in parallel with re-investing profits 
to deliver future earnings growth. 
o utlook	 With its committed team of senior and 
experienced management, I believe Hexagon 
is well placed to continue its expansion and 
grow earnings by leveraging its leadership 
position in Interim Executive Management, 
enlarging the scope of its Executive Search 
operations, diversifying its revenue streams 
and broadening its geographical reach. The 
Board is actively pursuing several acquisitions 
that will enable the Group to move forward in 
all these respects. 
The Group has established a strong 
platform on which to deliver future growth 
and the Board is extremely confident of  
being able to report further progress during  
the year as the Group takes advantage of  
the strong market conditions and selective 
acquisition opportunities. 
Robert	w alker	 Chairman 
7 August 2007 
