 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 13
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Said Darwazah Chief Executive Officer
In 2007 we have once again demonstrated the power of 
our diversified business model, achieving strong growth and
delivering healthy returns to shareholders.
Strategy
Our Branded business performed very well and the opportunities
within the MENA region remain exciting. In our Injectables
business, where we grew sales by nearly 80%, we are creating
economies of scale through our growing product portfolio and
enhanced sales and marketing efforts. In our Generics business 
in the US we were able to deliver nearly 10% sales growth and
strong cash flow for the Group despite intense competition and
pricing pressure.
In 2007 we also made significant investments in our businesses
that will enable us to drive future growth and to deliver on our
strategy of building Hikma into a leading speciality
pharmaceutical company .
Acquisitions
We began the year with two excellent acquisitions in Germany
– Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan. These companies substantially
broaden the scope of our Injectables business, bringing new
products, customers and manufacturing capabilities and helping
us develop a strong competence in oncology , one of the
industry’ s fastest growing therapeutic areas.
In September , we successfully entered the fast-growing Egyptian
market with the acquisition of Alkan Pharma in Egypt and, in
December , we further strengthened our position in our core
MENA markets through the acquisition of Arab Pharmaceutical
Manufacturing.
I am pleased to report that Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan are
fully integrated into Hikma and we are swiftly integrating Alkan
and APM. At Alkan, now Hikma Egypt, we have appointed a
new general manager with an in depth knowledge of the
Egyptian market, where we are working hard to establish the
Hikma brand. In Jordan, an excellent Hikma-trained team 
has joined the APM team, where they are strengthening key
functions and developing the potential of this excellent business.
We continue to see opportunities to develop our business
through acquisitions. Being a consolidator in the highly
fragmented pharmaceutical market in the MENA region will
remain a priority and we will continue to look for opportunities 
to enhance our position in core markets and to access new
emerging markets.
Management
We have made a number of management appointments over
the course of the year , adding talented managers with excellent
international experience. In addition to new general managers at
Hikma Egypt and APM, we have made two important oncology
hires – a new managing director for Ribosepharm and a global
head of oncology .
We have also continued to strengthen our underlying businesses.
In the MENA region, we have hired a new head of licensing, 
who will focus on further developing our in-licensing potential 
in order to reinforce our position as the partner of choice in the
MENA region. In the US, we have appointed a new head of
Injectables for the US market and have strengthened our ongoing
commitment to our oral generic business with senior hires in
finance and sales and marketing.
We are confident that these appointments will help us to execute
our strategy and maximise the opportunities available to us.
Products
We significantly expanded our product portfolio in 2007, from
176 to 353 products, enhancing our potential in core markets
and bringing opportunities in newer markets across all regions.
We have made excellent progress through our in-house R&D
efforts, with 129 product approvals and 28 new product
launches. The acquisitions of Ribosepharm, Alkan and APM 
have also added a number of exciting new branded generic and
in-licensed products that we are only just beginning to leverage
across our network. Through our licensing efforts, we have
added three new in-licensed products in MENA.
Looking forward, our pipeline is also impressive, with 104 new
products pending approval, including 46 ANDAs and 133
products under development.
Capacity
In order to meet the growing demand for our products, we 
have continued to invest in expanding our existing capacity 
and improving our operational efficiency during 2007. 
Our ongoing capital expenditure projects were enhanced by this
year’ s acquisitions, further expanding capacity and adding new
manufacturing capabilities. In our Branded business, we are now
investing in our plants in Jordan and Saudi Arabia and expect to
make further investments in 2008 in Egypt and at APM to
maximise the potential of these facilities. In our Injectables
business, we are adding further lyophilisation capacity in our
facilities in Portugal and are increasing utilisation of our new
cephalosporin plant.
We continue to focus on building Hikma into a leading speciality
pharmaceutical company delivering high returns on investment to
our shareholders.
