 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 11
Chairman’s review
Samih Darwazah Non-Executive Chairman
I am very pleased to report on another successful year for Hikma.
In 2007, we have continued meeting the strategic goals we set
for ourselves when we became a publicly listed company , while 
at the same time delivering consistent ﬁnancial performance.
Strategic progress
Our position as a leading pharmaceutical manufacturer in the
MENA region is stronger than ever . We have an excellent product
portfolio, a large and effective sales and marketing team and
excellent manufacturing capabilities that enable us to take
advantage of the opportunities in this fast-growing region.
Through the two acquisitions we made in the region this year , 
in Egypt and Jordan, we have extended our successful business
model into new markets and strengthened our position in our
core markets like Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
We have built a particularly diverse product portfolio and
promising product pipeline through the strength of our in-house
research and development team and with the benefit of
acquisitions. We are also developing our expertise in exciting 
new therapeutic areas such as oncology and diabetes. We have
made investments in capacity , particularly in our Injectables
business, and we continue to build scale and develop our
manufacturing capabilities.
Financial results
The Group performed well in 2007, achieving revenue of 
$448.8 million, up 41.6% from 2006. This growth was driven by
strong performances in our Branded and Injectables businesses
and was enhanced by acquisitions in MENA and Europe. Gross
margin for the Group was 49.4%, compared to 50.0% in 2006
and operating profit grew by 22.8% to $92.4 million. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation increased by
30.1% to $115.8 million. Profit attributable to shareholders for
the period increased by 14.8% to $62.6 million. Diluted earnings
per share increased by 14.2% to 35.4 cents per share.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 4.0 cents per
share (approximately 2.0 pence per share), which will make a
dividend for the full year of 7.5 pence per share, compared to 
7.0 pence per share for 2006. The proposed final dividend will 
be paid on 2 June 2008 to shareholders on the register on 
2 May 2008, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting.
Corporate responsibility
Since Hikma was founded, we have sought to adhere to the
highest ethical and operational standards. This year , we
commenced a thorough review of the social and environmental
impact of the Group in order better to align our desire to act
responsibly with our strategic business objectives. We are now
well-positioned to begin to set clear social and environmental
targets and action plans for further improvements in 
our performance.
Board changes
This year I stepped down as Chief Executive Officer , whilst
continuing my role as Chairman on a non-executive basis. I am
delighted that the Board appointed Said Darwazah as Chief
Executive Officer , a position he held prior to his appointment as
Health Minister for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Said’ s
knowledge of the Group, his significant business acumen and
pharmaceutical industry experience will ensure that Hikma
remains an exciting growth story for years to come.
Recent developments
On 17 January 2008 we successfully raised gross proceeds of
£81.6 million (approximately $160 million) through the placing 
of 17 million ordinary shares, to fund the acquisition of APM,
strengthen our balance sheet and enhance our flexibility to
finance future growth and pursue strategic acquisitions.
Outlook
In 2008 we expect to continue to see the results of the
investments we are making. Our Branded business, with its sales
and marketing team of more than 1,000, its broad product range
and quality reputation, will continue to deliver strong organic
growth and will also benefit from the enhanced opportunities
that the acquisitions in Egypt and Jordan will bring.
In our Injectables business, we will to continue to drive growth 
in the underlying business through new product launches and
further penetration of our existing product portfolio. Additional
growth will come as our new oncology business develops, as we
build our oncology product portfolio and as we launch these
products into new markets.
In our US Generics business, we expect continued pricing
pressure and significant gross margin erosion in 2008. Looking
ahead, we will work to grow this business through the recent
strengthening of the management team, increasing focus on
higher margin, niche products, dedicating additional capacity in
low cost countries and concentrating on acquiring lower cost API.
Importantly , we will also continue to invest in developing our
infrastructure and management in order to meet the growing
demand for our products across the Group, not just in 2008 but
in 2009 and beyond. strategy
We are focusing on the key segments of
our markets that offer the best prospects
for long-term growth.
