 28 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
Our strategy Annual report 2008
In 2008, we made signiﬁcant progress towards delivering on some of these
priorities, particularly in the MENA region and in our speciality Injectables
business. In our Generics business in the US, however, we found delivering on our
priorities more challenging. Importantly, we ended the year on a stable footing 
in the US and better placed to drive each of our businesses forward in 2009.
Strengthening our leading position in the MENA region
Our degree of focus on the fast-growing MENA region is unique and we
increased our penetration of this valuable market in 2008 both through organic
growth and the integration of two major acquisitions. T otal MENA sales reached
$366 million in 2008, or 63% of Group sales – an increase of 60% over 2007.
Clearly our business in the MENA region beneﬁted from the fast growing local
pharmaceutical markets, which grew by an average of 18.5% in 2008, four times
as fast as the global market.
Acquisitions also played an important role in the growth we achieved.
Following the integration of Hikma Egypt (previously Alkan) we are now ﬁrmly
established in the Egyptian market, the second largest of the 17 private pharmaceutical
markets in which we operate in the MENA region. Hikma Egypt’s sales grew by
58% over the year reﬂecting the beneﬁts of applying our sales and marketing
expertise and substantial improvements in operating efﬁciency. The acquisition 
of Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing (APM) brought us valuable additional
manufacturing capacity in Jordan and also licences for a number of patented
products that we are now selling throughout MENA. Our sales effort has proven
very successful, with APM’s revenues growing by 38% in 2008.
Developing our global product range in growing therapeutic areas 
Further growth in the MENA region as well as in Europe and the US came from
the development of our product portfolio. W e increased our product range in
2008, from 353 to 369 products, enhancing our potential in core markets and
bringing opportunities in newer markets across all regions.
Importantly, we continued to increase our focus on higher margin, value-
added products in targeted therapeutic areas such as cardiovascular, CNS and
oncology. W e also increased our emphasis on “quality sales” to ensure that we are
getting the most in terms of proﬁt and cash collection from the very strong
Hikma brand name and reputation.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s strategic review
In this year’s report to shareholders, we’ve set out our vision – to build 
Hikma into a world-class, leading speciality pharmaceutical company – 
and the strategic priorities to achieve this vision, against which we can 
measure our progress.
2008 Revenue
$580.7m
2008 Operating proﬁt
$113.8m
2008 Submissions* 
233
* across all regions and markets in 2008
Said Darwazah Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer
12751_p26_p57.qxp  27/3/09  22:33  Page 28 Extending our reach and diversity through partnerships
W e seek to strengthen our relationships with all stakeholders within the healthcare
value chain. Expanding our in-licensed business with research-based multinational
companies is a key part of this growth strategy and will enable us to continuously
launch new innovative medical treatments valued by patients and physicians.
Our in-licensed products performed extremely well in 2008, with sales growing
by 63%. Sales of in-licensed products acquired through acquisitions exceeded
expectations and the T akeda products in particular, which include Actos™ and
Blopress™, grew by 64% in 2008. This growth was achieved in APM’s existing
markets. As we begin to launch these products in new markets such as Egypt 
and Algeria we expect to see incremental sales coming through in 2009.
Increasing the scale of our speciality Injectables business 
Our speciality Injectables business experienced rapid growth in sales in MENA
and the US in 2008, up 43% and 29%, respectively. This helped to compensate for
the increase in pricing pressure in Germany. 
W e feel that our presence in the MENA region truly differentiates us from our
global competitors. As MENA sales increase as a percentage of overall Injectable
sales, our proﬁtability in this business should also improve.
Our developing presence in the ﬁeld of oncology is also a key strength and
should help to drive future growth and improve proﬁtability. The global oncology
and cancer care market is growing rapidly, with an increasing number of specialist
hospitals and clinics focused on treating this growing disease. Oncology is targeted
to represent an increasing percentage of Injectable sales in 2009 as we launch our
oncology products in the MENA region and continue to roll out our oncology
portfolio across Europe.
Leveraging our expertise and capacity in the US market 
Sales in our Generics business in the US were adversely affected by the completion
of a major Government supply contract at the end of 2007. The absence of these
revenues in 2008 was coupled with deteriorating market conditions and intense
competition and pricing pressure. W e have responded with a thorough overhaul 
of the business that has involved improving our ability to obtain cost-effective
supplies of APIs from multiple sources, raising prices where possible, terminating
unproﬁtable supply arrangements, improving manufacturing and distribution
efﬁciencies and raising service levels. W e have also made several management
changes. 
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 29
Annual report 2008
MENA: 36%
US: 17%
Europe – Injectables: 24%
Europe – Oncology: 23%
2008 Injectable sales
% by region
0
8
7
5
4
2006 157.7
2007 229.2
2008 365.9
MENA sales
$million
+60%
Trusted to deliver Our strategy
12751_p26_p57.qxp  31/3/09  00:18  Page 29 30 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
Our strategy Annual report 2008
These actions, as well as the FDA-enforced withdrawal of some suppliers from the
US market, helped the Generics business return to proﬁtable trading in the last
quarter of 2008 and we are conﬁdent that the business, which has an exemplary
compliance record, will regain full year proﬁtability in 2009. 
Maintaining our world-class manufacturing capabilities 
In 2008 we invested approximately $57 million in expanding and upgrading 
our capacity to meet growing demand. Although the acquisitions we made 
in 2007 raised our capacity (and also brought some new manufacturing
processes), certain facilities have required upgrading to ensure the highest 
quality of manufacture.
Acquisitions 
Much of 2008 was spent integrating the four acquisitions we completed in 2007.
Looking forward, we are conﬁdent that there remains considerable scope for
further acquisitions, particularly in the MENA region, where the pharmaceutical
market is highly fragmented and where many countries require or prefer a local
manufacturing presence. W e are focusing efforts on acquisitions in countries
where we do not currently have a direct presence or where we can accelerate our
penetration of existing markets.
Management evolution 
Hikma has grown rapidly over the past couple of years, both organically and
through our acquisitions. This has brought a need to ensure that our increased
size and complexity does not hinder our growth prospects and our ﬂexibility to
quickly capture new revenue opportunities. Furthermore, in our competitive
industry and the current economic environment, we need to increase our focus
on productivity, supply chain efﬁciency and returns on investment for our
shareholders. As a result, we will be adapting our management structure in order
to facilitate these important priorities.
Our revenue generation functions of sales and marketing, business development,
R&D and registration in both MENA and Europe will now be overseen by
T aghreed Shunnar, who previously managed our Branded Business. Freeing
T aghreed and her team from production and operational activities will enable
them to dedicate their efforts towards maintaining our top-line growth, creating
new business opportunities and capitalising on them quickly. T aghreed has
demonstrated considerable success in growing our Branded business, both
through Hikma products and licensing partnerships, and I am sure that she will
maintain this track record for our sales in both MENA and Europe. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement
continued
0 0
0 0
0 0
1
1
2006 53.2
2007 49.4
2008 56.7
Capital expenditure
$m
+14.8%
12751_p26_p57.qxp  31/3/09  00:19  Page 30 The growing signiﬁcance of the MENA region in the Injectables business model
has led to an increasing overlap between our Injectables and Branded supply
chains. W e have signiﬁcant manufacturing capabilities in 12 facilities across seven
countries in MENA and Europe and we are sure that there is signiﬁcant room for
improvement if these facilities and their supply chains are managed in a more
uniﬁed manner. As a result, our operations teams in Europe and MENA will now
be working together in order to realise that potential. 
This will lead to enhanced working capital management, realisation of
manufacturing, supply and distribution synergies, and help our sales function 
by efﬁciently delivering products to their customers – when they need them 
and where they need them. Bassam Kanaan will be heading our efforts in this
regard in addition to his role as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Bassam has been with 
us for seven years now as Group CFO and his thorough understanding of our
global operations will enable him and his team to make this change a success.
The sales and operations aspects of the Generics business will continue to be run
by Mike Raya, given the unique characteristics of the US market and the management
changes that we have made there that have already proved successful.
Majda Labadi, who previously led our Injectables segment,
will now be heading up the critical function of Group Human Resources, 
so that we can attract and retain the talent Hikma needs to grow.
Our position in growing markets and broad geographical spread, combined
with our strong brands and reputation for quality, gives us great conﬁdence that
we can deliver on our objective to become a leading global multinational
speciality pharmaceutical company.
Said Darwazah Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 31
Annual report 2008
“Management changes
mean we are focussing
on productivity, supply
chain efﬁciency and
returns on investment
for our shareholders. ”
Said Darwazah Chief Executive  Ofﬁcer
Trusted to deliver Our strategy
12751_p26_p57.qxp  27/3/09  22:33  Page 31 32 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
Our strategy Annual report 2008
Strengthening our 
leading position in
the MENA region.
Our strong position in the MENA region is unique with
operations in 17 MENA markets and more than 1,200 sales 
and marketing employees. Recent acquisitions have enhanced 
our presence in existing MENA markets, brought high quality 
and complementary product portfolios and provided access 
to new markets, including the large and fast growing Egyptian
market. W e are conﬁdent that the MENA region will continue 
to offer signiﬁcant and sustainable market growth opportunities
for our existing business and we continue to look for 
acquisitions across the region. 
Branded business market share*
Position Share
1 Jordan 1 12.4%
2 Algeria 4 6.4%
3 Saudi Arabia 5 4.9%
* Source: IMS Health. MAT Dec. 08. 
Retail sales only .
1
2
3
Increasing penetration of our core markets
At the end of 2008, Hikma is the ﬁfth largest
pharmaceutical manufacturer in the MENA region
with a market share of 3.4%* competing against
major multinational pharmaceutical companies as
well as local competitors. In our core markets, Saudi
Arabia, Algeria, Jordan and Sudan, we are one of the
top 5 players and across all our markets many of our
products have a market share of 15% or more.
12751_p26_p57.qxp  31/3/09  15:45  Page 32 “Proud to make 
a difference. ”
A technician in our Jordan facility
The combined efforts and dedication of our
employees have been an important factor 
behind Hikma’ s strong market position. 
Trusted to deliver Our strategy
12751_p26_p57.qxp  1/4/09  17:42  Page 33
