 12  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
Strengthening our leading position 
in the MENA region
Our position as the leading regional pharmaceutical 
company in the MENA region remains solidly in place. 
We continue to increase our market share across the 
region as a whole – expanding our product portfolio 
in growing therapeutic areas and penetrating further 
into new markets, while maintaining our strong 
position in the field of anti-infectives. In rapidly 
changing markets like Algeria, we have demonstrated 
our ability to turn obstacles into opportunities – 
delivering a strong performance relative to other 
players in this market. Increasingly we are benefiting 
from the acquisitions of Hikma Egypt and Arab 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing (“APM”) – which  
are now well integrated into the Hikma Group.  
Developing our global product range 
in growing therapeutic areas
Our product portfolio continues to grow with 24 new 
compounds and 47 new dosage strengths and forms 
marketed and sold this year. A further 114 approvals 
across all regions and markets ensures that we will 
maintain a steady stream of new product launches in 
2010. Our portfolio also continues to develop in new 
therapeutic areas, with new launches in oncology, 
CNS, diabetes and respiratory.
Extending our reach and diversity 
through partnerships
We continue to deliver a strong performance from 
our in-licensed products, which grew by 25% in 
2009, reinforcing our position as the licensing partner 
of choice in the MENA region. We signed three new 
licensing agreements during the year that will bring 
four new products into our portfolio over the coming 
years and will strengthen our product offering in key 
therapeutic areas. Using our local manufacturing 
capabilities, we will be able to introduce these 
products into multiple markets simultaneously  
across the MENA region.
Increasing the scale of our speciality 
Injectables business
Our efforts to build scale in our global Injectables 
business continue, with 16 products launched across 
our markets in 2009 and continued investment in 
sales and marketing. The 41 approvals received across 
all regions and geographies in 2009 will help to 
deliver growth in 2010.
Leveraging our expertise and capacity 
in the US market
During 2009 a considerable effort went into 
continuing the turnaround of our operations in  
the US, with outstanding results for the full year.  
The performance of the Generics business in the US 
has exceeded our expectations and I am confident 
that the operational issues we have faced in the  
past are well behind us. We have refocused the 
business on providing higher service levels and we  
2009 has been a very successful year for Hikma  
in which we have made excellent progress towards 
achieving our strategic objectives
Chief Executive Officer’s review Delivering Our strategy
13
are successfully utilising our high quality, lower cost 
MENA manufacturing facilities in the US market. 
Through well-coordinated and collaborative efforts, 
our teams in the US, Jordan and Saudi Arabia have 
delivered excellent results, significantly increasing  
sales of our global products.
Maintaining our world class 
manufacturing capabilities
I am extremely proud of our manufacturing and 
regulatory personnel, whose teamwork and 
commitment to the highest quality standards really 
paid off this year. Our plant in Portugal passed its  
FDA inspection this autumn with no observations, 
demonstrating the true excellence of the Group 
regulatory team. This teamwork and commitment to 
excellence was reinforced in January 2010, when our 
Jordanian facility (which includes a general formulation 
plant, a penicillin plant, and a chemical plant) also 
passed its FDA inspection,  
again with no observations. 
Quality is proving to be a 
key differentiating factor 
and our investment in  
and commitment to quality 
continues to deliver results.  
Implementing our new organisational structure
To achieve our growth ambitions, we must have  
the right personnel and systems to support them  
in place. Thus, during 2009, we implemented a  
new organisational structure, which was sufficiently 
established to contribute to the year’ s success.  
The new structure created corporate-level marketing, 
operational, HR and business development functions 
designed to improve the efficiency of our activities 
across the Group. I am confident that the new 
structure will enable us to focus on efficiency and 
deliver on our strategic objectives going forward. 
Through our new corporate HR function we are 
implementing fundamental processes that will help  
us to recruit, develop, retain, engage and manage  
our people, thereby supporting our short and 
long-term strategic business objectives. 
I am confident that the new structure will enable 
us to devote an even higher focus on efficiency and 
quality in all of our operations, thereby enabling us  
to deliver on our strategic objectives going forward.
Our strategy for growth
Said Darwazah 
Chief Executive Officer
Strengthen  
our leading  
position in the  
MENA region
l
Extend  
our reach and 
diversity as a 
partner of  
choice in the 
MENA region
%
%%
%%%
Increase  
the scale  
of our 
speciality 
Injectables 
business
Leverage  
our expertise 
and capacity 
in the US 
market
Build on our 
world-class  
manufacturing 
and API  
sourcing 
capabilities
„
„
„
Develop  
our global  
product range  
in growing  
therapeutic  
areas 14  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Strong results in 2009
All of these efforts have enabled us to achieve 36% 
net income growth for the Group in 2009. In the 
context of the difficult economic environment,  
these results are truly impressive and demonstrate  
the strength of our diversified business model, our 
dedicated efforts to improve efficiency and the  
hard work of the Hikma teams around the world.
Looking ahead
Looking forward to 2010 and beyond, we still have 
much work to do. We will be implementing the 
following key initiatives to help us deliver continued 
operational excellence and strong financial results.
Improving efficiency continues  
to be a high priority
Because of the value to be generated, we continue  
to challenge and engage every person in the Group  
to innovate for efficiency while maintaining quality. 
Maximising plant utilisation, lowering overheads, 
reducing inventories, better cash collection – these  
are just some of the areas where our people are 
committed to creating value. There is always scope  
to do what we do better – and every little bit helps.
T op 10 MENA companies in 2009
 Rank
Value 
$m
Growth 
%
Market share 
%
MENA private market 8,028 +10.0 100.0
Sanofi-Aventis 1 769 –2.6 9.6
GlaxoSmithKline 2 619 +13.0 7.7
Pfizer 3 465 +4.5 5.8
Novartis 4 442 +5.5 5.5
Hikma 5 294 +12.4 3.7
Merck & Co 6 231 +3.1 2.9
Spimaco 7 198 +11.6 2.5
AstraZeneca 8 177 +24.0 2.2
Bayer 9 167 +3.7 2.1
Pharco 10 138 +14.1 1.7
All market data sourced from IMS Health, MAT December 2009. Figures reflect private retail sales in Algeria, Jordan, Kuwait, Egypt, Tunisia,  
Morocco, UAE, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia. 15
Delivering Our strategy
Centres of excellence in manufacturing  
will enhance our global product range 
Global products are integral to our growth strategy. 
Developing and strengthening our global product 
range is essential. Through the creation of 
manufacturing centres of excellence, we have a 
significant opportunity to grow sales and improve 
margins by better utilising our manufacturing  
facilities across the Group. In our Injectables business 
we are already doing this – we manufacture in 
Portugal and sell across the US, Europe and MENA. 
Our oral cephalosporins, which are produced in  
Saudi Arabia and sold across the MENA region  
and also in the US, are another good example.  
Yet numerous other opportunities remain. 2010  
will see the launch of our oncology products in the 
MENA region and continuing efforts to prepare our 
oncology manufacturing plant in Germany for the 
manufacture of FDA approved products. We expect 
to leverage further our cephalosporin plant in Saudi 
Arabia and our penicillin and general formulation 
plants in Jordan to produce not just for MENA but 
also for the US and, in some cases, Europe. 
Strengthening Group communications
Improving communication across the Group is  
also critical. Strong communication and excellent 
teamwork paid off in 2009 from a regulatory 
perspective. The US turnaround was also made easier 
by the well coordinated efforts of the US, Jordanian 
and Saudi teams previously mentioned. Facilitating 
communication across departments and geographies 
in our rapidly expanding Group will remain a priority.  
Growing through acquisitions
We remain very ambitious for the longer-term 
prospects for the Group and we have an excellent 
track record for making successful acquisitions and 
integrating them swiftly. Acquisitions in the MENA 
region remain a priority – both to enter new markets 
and develop our position in existing markets. We will 
also continue to look for opportunities in Europe,  
the US and Asia, particularly when it comes to 
acquiring new global products and new technologies.  
Developing new partnerships
Our commitment to developing our in-licensed 
portfolio remains very much intact. We believe  
that we remain the clear partner of choice in  
the MENA region for licensing opportunities,  
as the recent additions to our in-licensed  
portfolio demonstrate.  
Investing in our people
As a company we have always been committed to 
developing our people. As the Group grows, this is 
increasingly important. We will continue to challenge 
ourselves to improve and commit to providing the 
opportunities necessary for our teams to develop. 
Striving to make Hikma the employer of choice will 
ensure we retain the skills required to take our 
business forward.
Going forward
I am very excited by the opportunities we have 
to expand our business in 2010 and beyond.
Said Darwazah 
Chief Executive Officer  16  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy 
Strengthening our leading position  
in the MENA region
l
 9 General formulation manufacturing facility, Algiers, Algeria
In many markets in the MENA region, local manufacturing  
is critical to establishing a strong market presence. We are 
committed to developing our manufacturing capabilities in 
Algeria in order to better serve the Algerian market. We expect 
our Algerian manufacturing capacity to double over the next 
three years.
Manufactured  
in Algeria...
16.28 17
 9 Patients in Algeria are benefiting from our locally produced products
We worked hard in 2009 to build our market share in Algeria, 
particularly in the important cardiovascular and metabolic  
therapeutic areas. Making a wide range of high quality products 
available to patients in Algeria is also a key priority. t hree new  
products were launched in Algeria in 2009.
... Administered  
in Algeria
13.28 18  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy 
Developing our global product range 
in growing therapeutic areas
 9 Oncology manufacturing facility, v ienenburg, Germany
We made excellent progress in the development of our 
oncology business in 2009. We are now producing four of  
our own oncology products at our cytotoxic manufacturing 
facility in Germany. t his facility has been inspected by health 
authorities from across Europe and the MENA region and  
we are working hard to prepare the facilities for production  
for the US market.
Manufactured  
in Germany...
06.57 19
 9  Hikma is making cancer treatment more  
accessible to patients in Jordan 
Following the initial launch of our injectable oncology products  
in Jordan and yemen in the second half of 2009, patients in  
the Middle East now have access to our high quality generic 
oncology products. We have an excellent opportunity to build  
a leading oncology business in the MENA region and plan  
a further four oncology launches in 2010. 
... Administered  
in Jordan
09.57 20  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy 
Extending our reach and diversity as a partner 
of choice in the MENA region
%
%%
%%%
 9 General formulation manufacturing facility, Salt, Jordan
APM’s manufacturing facilities in Salt are now fully integrated 
into the Hikma Group and are helping us to serve our growing 
markets in the MENA region. Currently, these facilities produce 
products, including some of our important in-licenced products, 
for sale across 22 countries. Output will increase in  terms of 
volumes produced, products produced and markets served as 
we work to transform these facilities into a manufacturing 
“centre of excellence” for the MENA region.
Manufactured  
in Jordan...
08.45 21
 9  Actos®, the leading t ype 2 diabetes treatment,  
is now available to patients in Egypt 
As our product portfolio grows, we are enhancing the range  
of high quality and affordable products available to patients  
across the MENA region. In 2009, our product offering 
expanded to 245 products in 472 dosage strengths and forms, 
including 40 in-licenced products. Seven new products were 
launched in Egypt, including Actos®, t anatril®(imidapril), 
Blopress® and Omnicef®. 
... Administered  
in Egypt
 1 1 .45 22  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy 
Increasing the scale of our speciality 
Injectables business
 9 Sterile injectable manufacturing facility, Sintra, Portugal
Our sterile injectable manufacturing facilities in Portugal  
produce high quality injectable products for the US, European  
and MENA markets. t hese facilities are producing sterile 
liquids and cephalosporins and we have recently added 
significant lyophilisation capacity.
Manufactured  
in Portugal...
11.42 23
 9 Our sterile injectable products are reaching patients across Europe
In Europe, we currently sell 23 compounds in 78 dosage 
strengths and forms. W e have a strong presence in Germany, 
Portugal and Italy and are also rolling out our products  
in Austria, Spain and the Netherlands as well as in other  
new markets.
... Administered  
in Germany
08.42 24  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy 
Leveraging our expertise and capacity 
in the US market
 9  Dedicated cephalosporin manufacturing facility,  
r iyadh, Saudi Arabia
Our manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia has been approved  
by the US FDA for the production of oral cephalosporins.  
In 2009 we more than doubled our exports from Saudi Arabia  
to the US.
Manufactured  
in Saudi Arabia...
13.32 25
 9 Our leading anti-infectives are being dispensed to patients in the US
Demand for our oral anti-infectives, which we manufacture at  
our facilities in Jordan and Saudi Arabia, grew significantly in 
2009. We increased our market share of Cephaclor, one of our 
leading cephalosporins, from 1% to nearly 30% for the year.
... Administered  
in the  
United States
10.32 26  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
 DELIvErING OUr StrAtEGy 
 9  General formulation manufacturing facility, Amman, Jordan
 Our high quality general formulation, penicillin and chemical 
manufacturing facilities in Jordan produce a broad range of 
products for sale across the MENA region and increasingly  
for the US and Europe. t hrough our focus on efficiency, our 
manufacturing facilities in Jordan increased volumes in 2009  
while keeping costs constant.
Building on our world-class manufacturing 
and API sourcing capacities
„
„
„
Manufactured  
in Jordan...
17.15 27
 9  Our leading anti-infectives are reaching patients in Iraq
 Demand for our leading anti-infectives Amoclan® and Suprax® 
grew significantly in Iraq in 2009. Hikma’s overall sales to Iraq  
more than doubled as we launched new products and worked  
hard to rebuild our sales and marketing capabilities in this 
recovering market. A total of six new products and 10 new  
dosage strengths and forms were launched in Iraq in 2009.
... Administered  
in Iraq
1 6.15
