 06  Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009
Hikma has once again delivered an outstanding 
performance. W e have focused on integrity, high quality 
sales and cost management across all areas of our 
diversified business model, achieving record sales of 
$637 million and 36% growth in net income 
Chairman’s statement
Branded 
Our businesses in the Middle East and North Africa 
(“MENA”) region continued to grow ahead of the 
underlying markets, reinforcing our position as the 
leading regional pharmaceutical manufacturer. 
Injectables 
While revenues in our global Injectables business were 
down slightly compared to 2008, we expect that 
during 2010 this business will return to the growth 
profile it previously enjoyed. We continue to make 
good progress in implementing our oncology strategy,  
and saw Hikma’ s first oncology products launched in 
the MENA region during the second half of the year. 
Generics
Our US Generics business had an excellent year, 
achieving record sales and an impressive return  
to profitability as our new US management team 
implemented strategic and operational changes.  
The competitive environment remained challenging  
in the US but reduced competition in certain product 
lines helped the recovery of this business, enabling  
us to maximise our opportunities and increase  
our market share in key products. 
Quality 
Underlying all of our achievements in 2009 was  
our continued commitment to quality and integrity. 
We continue to adhere to the highest quality and 
ethical standards across all of our operating units  
and believe these are essential to delivering long‑ term 
shareholder value. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 
6.5 cents per share (approximately 4.3 pence per 
share), which will make a dividend for the full year  
of 11.0 cents per share, an increase of 47% on  
2008. The proposed final dividend will be paid on 
27 May 2010 to shareholders on the register on 
16 April 2010, subject to approval by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting. 
Balance sheet developments
Our focus on working capital management during the 
year has delivered excellent results. Significantly higher 
operating cash flow has materially lowered our net 
debt compared to 2008, strengthening our balance 
sheet and giving us financial flexibility to pursue 
future growth opportunities. 
Shareholder value
From the Company’ s listing in October 2005  
through the end of 2009, we have delivered a total 
shareholder return of 87.5%. We are delighted with 
this performance, which exceeds that of the FTSE 250 
index and the FTSE Pharmaceuticals index, which 
grew by 32.5% and 17.7%, respectively, over the 
same period.  07
Delivering Strong performance
Outlook
Hikma should continue to benefit from the overall 
pharmaceutical market growth in the MENA region, 
which we expect to remain higher than the global 
pharmaceutical market. Our share of the MENA 
market should also continue to increase as we further 
penetrate into existing markets, expand into new 
markets and grow our portfolio of own‑ brand and 
in‑ licensed products. There also remains considerable 
scope for us to grow our global Injectables business 
following the significant investments we have  
made in portfolio development, 
sales and marketing and 
manufacturing capacity.  
Our US Generics business is on a strong footing and 
we are confident that we can maintain the positive 
momentum we have created in this business. Overall 
for the Group we expect to deliver Group sales 
growth in the low‑teens in 2010 and expect gross 
margin to be broadly in line with the improved gross 
margin we achieved in 2009.
Going forward
In summary, I am confident of the Company’ s 
prospects for this year and for the years to come.  
This confidence is based on the diversity of our 
business model and the strength of each of our  
core businesses within it.
Samih Darwazah 
Non-Executive Chairman
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
FTSE 250
FTSE 350/Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology
Nov 05
-40
-20
0
20
80
60
40
100
May 06 May 07 Nov 06 Nov 07 May 08 Nov 08 May 09 Nov 09
Hikma’s total shareholder return since IPO
10
Source: Factset.
