 Business Review
Chief Executive’s Overview
Job: 00000_Hill&Smith_AR_BCK Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: kevin Date: 23/03/09 
Server: Studio 3 Set-up: Keith First Read/Revisions
Hill & Smith Holdings PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
06
Overview of our performance
2008 was another year of strong growth, achieved through  
product development and increased market penetration, and 
through selective acquisitions. This strategy has been successful  
in continuing to transform Hill & Smith into a Group with leading 
international positions in its chosen markets. 
We have also targeted our Infrastructure Products Group (‘IPG’) on 
further development of our involvement in the roads, rail, utilities, 
and security sectors of the infrastructure market. To this end, we 
have established HS Roads, HS Rail, HS Utilities and HS Security 
within the IPG.
Revenue from continuing businesses increased 27.4% to £419.8m 
(2007: £329.6m) which includes £71.0m from 2007 acquisitions. 
Organic growth was 2% and exchange rate movements contributed 
£8.7m helped by the appreciation of both the Euro and US Dollar 
versus Sterling. Underlying operating profit
(†)
 increased by 28.5%  
to £47.4m (2007: £36.9m) of which acquisitions contributed £4.1m. 
Exchange movements accounted for a further £2.1m (6%) year on 
year improvement and organic growth was again strong at 10%. 
Excluding the Associate income in 2007, underlying operating 
margin
(†)
 improved by 1.0% to 11.3%.
Group strategy
The strategic objective is to deliver a consistent growth in  
earnings, dividend and shareholder value, through an increasing 
concentration on the core business areas. Through a clear focus on 
our core strategic drivers (organic growth, geographic expansion, 
selective acquisitions and growth of legislative requirements) we 
aim to continue delivery of this objective.
During 2008 we successfully completed a number of initiatives for 
all four drivers of our strategy, as highlighted opposite, including 
significant acquisitions and development of the product range. Our 
actions have resulted in the Group having a significant international 
scale, bringing potential for growth and resilience.
We are committed to retain our position as a preferred choice 
supplier in our chosen market segments. To help achieve this  
we have an experienced and entrepreneurial management team 
capable of delivering product development and value based 
solutions. On page 27 we have given biographical details of the  
key management driving our core and international businesses to 
ensure we remain in leading positions in our markets.
Derek Muir
Chief Executive
Our actions have resulted  
in the Group having a significant 
international scale, bringing potential 
for growth and resilience.
11964 H&S AW_FRONT.indd   6 4/4/09   17:01:05 Job: 00000_Hill&Smith_AR_BCK Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: kevin Date: 23/03/09 
Server: Studio 3 Set-up: Keith First Read/Revisions
07
08  
Hill & Smith Holdings PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Organic growth
Geographic 
expansion
Strategic 
aquisitions
Legislative growth
Organic growth
Geographic 
expansion
Strategic 
acquisitions
Legislative growth
*
Analysed by geographical origin
Strategic Drivers Strategy in action
Growing an international Group 
Acquisition of remaining minority •	
shareholding of Zinkinvent
Acquisition of Creative Pultrusions Inc. •	
Launch of “TopDeck” permanent or •	
temporary car parking solution
Formation of Hill & Smith Inc. in the •	
USA (Zoneguard and Security)
Constructed new galvanizing plant in •	
Delaware, USA 
GRP rail platform installed at East •	
Midlands Parkway station
Formation of British Pipe Supports •	
(JingJiang) Ltd in China
Divisional highlights
All three divisions performed well in the face of an increasingly 
challenging market environment. Infrastructure Products delivered 
an excellent result with organic growth from the roads, rail and 
utilities sectors of the infrastructure market. The acquisition of 
Creative Pultrusions Inc. significantly adds to our presence in the 
USA and our overall product range. Creative Pultrusions have 
already collaborated with other Group businesses, Redman 
Composites and Access Engineering, in supplying glass reinforced 
plastic (GRP) product for a rail platform at East Midlands Parkway 
station (please see page 16 for details).
 
The economic conditions impacted the tonnage volumes for  
our Galvanizing Services division, although volumes were up by 
4.7% in our US galvanizing operation, where we completed the 
construction of a new galvanizing plant in Delaware USA. This 
new plant commenced production in January 2009. 
During the year we gained full control of Zinkinvent’s galvanizing 
and fabricating businesses in France and the USA enabling us to 
develop and maximise the benefits of their operations. 
Our Building and Construction Products division produced a solid 
profit performance as some of the operations adjusted their cost 
base in response to weakening demand. The industrial flooring 
business continued to trade well, delivering record 
results as their end markets remained strong. 
In November 2008 we disposed of Express 
Reinforcements Limited, who operated in the  
steel reinforcing bar market, as part of our focus  
on higher margin core activities.
Further details of the performance of the three 
divisions are given on page 9 and in the Operational 
Review section of this report on pages 10 to 17.
Outlook
Overall the geographic and end-market diversity  
of the Group, together with its market leading 
positions and track record of delivering returns, 
positions it favourably to deal with the challenges 
and opportunities arising from the current 
economic conditions.
(†) excludes the effect of business reorganisation costs, property 
items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairments, 
change in the value of financial instruments and net financing 
return on pension obligations.
2008 
Revenue
£419.8m
2008
*
 UK 65%
 Europe 19% 
 USA 13%
 Rest of World 3%
2006
*
 UK 98%
 Rest of World 2%
2006 
Revenue
£234.6m
11964 H&S AW_FRONT.indd   7 4/4/09   17:01:05
