 12
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
VISIT
WWW.3LEGSRESOURCES.COM
We continue, with ConocoPhillips, to lead the way in the 
Baltic Basin in northern Poland and are now preparing to 
drill, stimulate and test our third long lateral well in the 
Basin, which will be our eighth well in total. 
CEO’s Strategic Review
Introduction
2013 has seen the Group further 
consolidate and progress its activities in the 
Baltic Basin in northern Poland. Following 
the adoption of a narrower geographical 
focus in early 2013, we have disposed of 
our commitments in southern Poland and  
in southern Germany, while continuing to 
channel our resources into the exploration 
and appraisal of our western Baltic Basin 
concessions, working closely with US oil 
major ConocoPhillips. 
Through the detailed analysis of data 
gathered from our seismic and drilling 
programmes and, where appropriate, from 
data exchanges with other operators, we 
continue to deepen our understanding of 
our target shales on our concessions and  
of how best to optimise our drilling and 
completion strategies. Our 2013/14 work 
programme is planned to culminate in the 
drilling, multi-stage stimulation and testing 
of a long lateral well on our concessions in 
the second and third quarters of this year, 
and we are confident that we are well 
placed to apply the lessons we have 
learned to date to this important well. 
Baltic Basin concessions, 
northern Poland
Throughout the year we have focused our 
activities on our three western Baltic Basin 
concessions in northern Poland, which 
extend over some 500,000 acres and,  
we believe, represent some of the most 
prospective shale acreage in the onshore 
Baltic Basin and indeed in Poland as a 
whole. We hold a 30% interest in the three 
concessions, the remaining 70% interest 
being held by ConocoPhillips, which has 
acted as operator since September 2012. 
We have continued to collaborate with 
ConocoPhillips in all aspects of the design 
and implementation of our agreed 2013/14 
work programme. 
Both of our target shales, the Ordovician-
age Sasino formation and the deeper 
Cambrian-age Piasnica formation, are 
believed to extend across substantially all of 
the three concessions. Our geological 
modelling indicates that the Sasino 
formation thickens towards the north of our 
concessions, while the Piasnica formation 
thickens towards the north and west. It is 
those areas of greater thickness that form 
the primary basis of our high-graded area, 
which will be a priority focus in any future 
development programme. 
Further testing of Lebien LE-2H lateral well
The Lebien LE-2H lateral well was originally 
drilled into the Sasino formation in 2011 and 
was tested in 2011 and again in 2012. When 
tested on the second occasion, in the fourth 
quarter of 2012, the well had flowed at an 
average rate of 550 mscf/d during a 21-day 
natural flow test, flowing at approximately 
470 mscf/d immediately prior to that test 
being suspended. 
A third phase of testing was initiated in July 
2013, using a 2 
3
/8 inch tubing string as 
opposed to the 3 
1
/2 inch string that was 
used on the previous occasion when the 
well was tested. Down-hole gauges were 
placed in the well, to collect pressure data, 
and pressurised samples of the produced 
fluids were also collected. These data had 
not, to our knowledge, been gathered from 
any previous testing in the Baltic Basin,  
and have assisted our understanding of 
reservoir conditions in the stimulated  
target formation. 
Following the placing of down-hole gauges, 
the well was put on a 60-day natural flow 
test. The well flowed initially at 470 mscf/d, 
i.e. the same rate as when the second 
phase of testing was suspended, and at the 
end of the 60-day test period the well was 
continuing to flow at approximately 230 
mscf/d. The well continued to clean up 
during the test and by the end of the test 
period approximately 45% of the frac fluid 
used during the hydraulic fracturing 
operation on the well in 2011 had been 
recovered. Down-hole gauges were then 
left in place in order to collect valuable 
bottom hole pressure data.
Kamlesh Parmar
Chief Executive Officer 13
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
The intention in using a smaller diameter 
tubing string on the third phase of testing 
had been to provide additional flow-rate 
velocity during the test, and thereby achieve 
an improved liquid unloading. In the event, 
the use of the smaller diameter tubing string 
did not have a significant impact on flow 
rate, although it did enable the well to flow 
at more stable rates. 
On the other hand, analysis of the flow test 
data obtained on both the second and third 
phases of testing indicated an area of 
apparent low fracture conductivity, 
potentially impeding the flow of natural gas 
into the wellbore. This area of apparent low 
fracture conductivity may be explained by a 
number of factors, many of which are being 
addressed in subsequent well and 
completion design.
Testing of Strzeszewo LE-1 vertical well
The Strzeszewo LE-1 well was drilled in late 
2012 as a vertical well within our high-
graded area in order to enable us to 
evaluate and test both our target formations, 
the Sasino shale and the deeper Piasnica 
shale, in a key part of our acreage. 
Following completion of coring and logging 
of the well in 2012, a first DFIT (Diagnostic 
Fracture Injectivity Test) was performed in 
the Piasnica formation, followed by a 
single-stage hydraulic frac treatment in May 
2013. Cleaning up commenced in August 
2013, using a nitrogen lift as planned.  
After a temporary shut-in to enable the 
perforations to be checked and to set 
down-hole pressure gauges, the well flowed 
natural gas and a flare was lit for a short 
period. The well was eventually shut in after 
15 days of testing in September 2013, by 
which time some 22.5% of the frac fluid 
originally injected had been recovered. The 
well flowed natural gas periodically during 
the test and gas samples were obtained. A 
pressure build-up test was then conducted. 
The Strzeszewo LE-1 well is currently the 
only well where we have tested the Piasnica 
shale on our concessions, since our most 
recent core and log analysis, discussed 
below, now indicates that our Warblino 
LE-1H lateral well, drilled in 2011, did not in 
fact test this zone. As we have indicated 
previously, the excellent hydrocarbon 
generation properties of the Piasnica (or 
Cambrian Alum) shale in this region of 
Europe are well known, as has been 
confirmed by the encouraging total organic 
carbon (TOC), shale porosities and gas 
shows recorded when we have drilled 
through this formation on our concessions. 
These parameters would appear to indicate 
that the formation is potentially as 
prospective as the Sasino shale, and we 
continue with ConocoPhillips to consider 
possible strategies for demonstrating  
its potential. 
Following a further DFIT, a second single-
stage hydraulic frac treatment was 
successfully executed in the Sasino shale  
in the Strzeszewo well in December 2013. 
Cleaning up of the well commenced in 
December 2013, again using a nitrogen lift. 
The well continued to clean up for a period 
of 19 days, during which time the well 
flowed natural gas at modest rates and 
some 63% of the frac fluid originally injected 
was recovered. The well was shut in on  
12 January 2014 and a pressure build-up 
test was conducted. 
On both occasions, the stimulation was 
carried out using a cross-linked gel fluid, 
and post-frac evaluations indicated that in 
each case the proppant was successfully 
delivered into the target formation. Data 
gathered from the programme will help 
calibrate the completion programme to be 
used on our long lateral well, planned to  
be drilled in the second quarter of 2014.
Legowo LE-1 well
We drilled the Legowo LE-1 vertical well in 
2010 on our Cedry Wielkie concession (one 
of our eastern Baltic Basin concessions), 
where we remain 100% owner and 
operator. The well was then cored, logged 
and tested with a DFIT. Following the 
decision to prioritise our western Baltic 
Basin concessions for further exploration 
activity, it was decided to plug and abandon 
this well and to reinstate the well location to 
In the Baltic 
Basin:
Our 2014 programme 
incorporates the learnings from 
our five years of continuous 
activity in the Baltic Basin. 
Planned activity to end 2014 – all on western Baltic Basin concessions
2013 2014
Activity Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Strzeszewo LE-1
DFIT/frac/testing
Lublewo LEP-1
Drilling/coring/logging
Slawoszyno LEP-1
Drilling/coring/logging
Lublewo LEP-1ST1H
Drilling
Frac/testing
 Drilling/coring/logging  DFIT/frac/testing 14
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
VISIT
WWW.3LEGSRESOURCES.COM
2013/14 programme
A single stage stimulation and test of the Sasino horizon was carried out in the 
Strzeszewo LE-1 well, during December and January 2013
• Used a cross-linked gel fluid delivering over 300,00lbs of sand 
• Well flowed gas and is now shut in for pressure-build up data
• Test data and pressure-build up data will assist in calibration of completion 
design for planned long lateral well
67 km of 2D seismic acquired on our Lebork concession in January 2014, to assist 
in the design and implementation of any future pilot development programme
Drilling of two new vertical wells, Lublewo LEP-1 and Slawoszyno LEP-1 (both 
now concluded)
• Further improve understanding of our two target formations in our high 
graded area, including depth, thickness and shale reservoir properties
• Determine the optimum placement of the planned lateral section
CEO’s Strategic Review Continued
its original condition. The plug and abandon 
work has now been completed and the well 
location has been re-instated and returned 
to the landowner. The cost of this work is 
funded in full by ConocoPhillips under the 
terms of the Joint Evaluation Agreement 
signed in 2009. 
Core and log analysis 
As in the case of previous vertical wells 
drilled on our concessions, a programme of 
extensive coring and logging was carried 
out on the Strzeszewo LE-1 well and, 
following the year end, on the Lublewo 
LEP-1 and Slawoszyno LEP-1 vertical wells 
(the latter being logged only). 
Some 220 metres of core were taken from 
across the entire prospective section in the 
Strzeszewo LE-1 well and this, in 
combination with the well logs, has 
undergone detailed analysis. Further 
analysis has also been carried out on cores 
and logs taken from the Lebien LE-1 well 
and from the vertical pilot well drilled at 
Warblino LE-1. The analysis has enabled  
a significantly improved understanding of 
our principal target zones, including their 
reservoir properties and materiality. 
Analysis of cores and logs from the 
Warblino LE-1 vertical well, drilled in 2011, 
now indicates that the lateral section 
sidetracked from this well, and tested in 
2011 and 2012, in fact tested the overlying 
Sluchowo (or Ordovician O1) shale 
formation, instead of the Piasnica shale as 
originally intended. Log analysis also 
appears to confirm the very promising 
hydrocarbon generation properties of the 
Piasnica shale in this area, consistent  
with the strong gas shows which we  
have recorded when drilling through  
this formation. 
Our primary objective on our concessions 
remains the Sasino shale interval, which is 
estimated to have a thickness of 25 to 40 
metres across our high-graded area. The 
Piasnica shale interval represents a 
potentially important additional objective. 
This zone, which was not included in our 
Competent Person’s Report at the time of 
our IPO, is estimated to have a thickness of 
15 to 20 metres across the high-graded 
area. Each interval is being separately 
evaluated on the basis that either might 
potentially justify a field development. 
Seismic acquisition
The acquisition of 32 sq km of 3D seismic 
data on the Karwia concession was 
completed in July 2013 and the new  
data have undergone processing and 
interpretation. This seismic survey was 
conducted both to meet existing licence 
commitments on the concession and to 
support future drilling activity. 
A second campaign, involving the 
acquisition of 67 km of 2D seismic data on 
our Lebork concession, was completed in 
January 2014. This seismic programme, 
together with data gathered from the recent 
Lublewo LEP-1 and Slawoszyno LEP-1 
vertical wells and the results of the planned 
long lateral well, will assist in the placement 
of a second long lateral well and ultimately 
will assist in the location and implementation 
of any future pilot development programme. 
2013/14 drilling programme
During discussions on the 2013/14  
drilling programme, we concluded with 
ConocoPhillips that although the testing  
of our target zones in a vertical well, as in 
Strzeszewo LE-1, could yield valuable data, 
it was nevertheless unlikely to provide 
sufficient information to enable flow rates 
from a long lateral section to be reliably 
projected. We therefore agreed to include in 
this programme a long-length lateral well, to 
be stimulated with a multi-stage treatment 
and then tested for up to 90 days. We 
agreed also that our primary target remains 
the Sasino horizon, while the Piasnica 
horizon remains an important secondary 
objective. The 2013/14 well programme is 
designed both to meet current licence 
commitments and to progress the 
exploration of our target shales.  15
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Slawoszyno LEP-1
Lebork
Karwia
Damnica
Warblino LE-1
Lublewo LEP-1
Strzeszewo LE-1
Lebien LE-1 & LE-2H
0.0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
Existing well and planned well
3D seismic survey
Existing well
Key:
Lublewo LEP-1ST1H
3Legs/ConocoPhillips 
concession
The first stage of the 2013/14 programme 
comprised the drilling of two new vertical 
wells, the Lublewo LEP-1 and the 
Slawoszyno LEP-1. These wells are 
intended to improve our understanding  
of our two target formations in our high-
graded area, including depth, thickness and 
shale reservoir properties, and hence to 
determine the optimum placement of the 
planned lateral section. The wells also 
enabled a decision on the location of the 
planned lateral well to be taken following an 
evaluation of our primary target, the Sasino 
horizon, at both locations.
Learnings to be applied
An important factor in maximising 
productivity from our target formations will 
be managing their sensitivity to water. 
Based on our core analysis, we are 
continually improving the mud programme 
and the choice of stimulation fluids. 
Our completion designs are now based on 
a cross-linked gel, rather than a slickwater 
fluid as was used on the initial stimulation of 
the Lebien LE-2H lateral well in 2011. Using 
a cross-linked gel will effectively stimulate 
the target horizon while reducing the 
amount of water needed for each stage and 
optimising the amount of proppant delivered 
into the target formation. 
Ongoing core analysis and testing from our 
wells is helping us to prepare for and 
manage other rock sensitivities with a view 
to optimising completion design. Test data 
have indicated that an optimum strategy for 
improving formation productivity is to 
stimulate a larger number of smaller 
fractures, but using high volumes of 
proppant in each case (i.e. significantly 
higher than those used in our Lebien LE-2H 
lateral well). We have also concluded that 
the most suitable proppant for the main  
part of the stimulation programme is a 
30/50 mesh high-quality white sand as 
opposed to, for example, a ceramic or 
resin-coated proppant. 
Drilling of Lublewo LEP-1 and Slawoszyno 
LEP-1 vertical wells
The Lublewo LEP-1 vertical well was 
spudded in December 2013, reaching 
target depth in January 2014. The well was 
drilled to 2,924 metres true vertical depth 
into the Middle Cambrian interval. Some  
141 metres of full-diameter 4-inch core were 
recovered from the well over the Lower 
Silurian, Ordovician, and Cambrian intervals, 
and an extensive suite of logs was also run 
on the well at total depth. The cores and 
logs are now undergoing processing  
and analysis.
Drilling of the Slawoszyno LEP-1 vertical 
well, the second well in our programme, 
was commenced on 15 February 2014 and 
has now been completed. The well was 
drilled to 2,819 metres true vertical depth 
into the Middle Cambrian interval. An 
extensive suite of logs has been run on the 
well over the Lower Silurian, Ordovician, and 
Upper Cambrian intervals, which are now 
undergoing processing and analysis. Both 
wells have been cased and cemented and 
temporarily suspended at intermediate 
casing depth. 
Preliminary analysis confirms our earlier 
modelling of the Piasnica and Sasino 
formations across the northern portions of 
our western Baltic Basin concessions, and 
hence the extent of the high-graded area 
which we have previously identified. While 
the precise thicknesses of the two 
formations will be determined following final 
processing and analysis, the data indicate 
that both wells encountered a Sasino 
section of similar thickness to that seen in 
the Strzeszewo LE-1 vertical well, and a 
Piasnica horizon which is slightly thinner 
than the same formation encountered at  
the Strzeszewo LE-1 vertical well, thus 
confirming our earlier modelling in  
both cases.
Sasino isopach map
3Legs’ high 
graded area
Source: 3Legs Resources 16
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
VISIT
WWW.3LEGSRESOURCES.COM
2013/14 programme, continued
• Drill a long lateral well of up to 1,600 metres in the Sasino shale, by way of a 
sidetrack from the Lublewo well
• The long lateral well, Lublewo LEP-1ST1H, will be treated with a multi-stage 
stimulation using a cross-linked gel fluid, and flow-tested for up to 90 days
• A decision on the drilling and testing of a second long lateral well, most likely 
in the Piasnica shale, will be taken following first results from the test of the 
Lublewo LEP-1ST1H well
• If we achieve positive results from the tests of one or both lateral wells, we 
will consider with ConocoPhillips the possible design and implementation of 
a pilot development programme 
• Programme meets current licence commitments and will progress 
exploration of target shales 
CEO’s Strategic Review Continued
Planned lateral well
Following a review of the data gathered from 
both the Lublewo LEP-1 and the Slawoszyno 
LEP-1 wells, and of the 2D seismic recently 
acquired in the Lublewo area, we have 
agreed with ConocoPhillips to select the 
Lublewo LEP-1 well as the location for the 
planned long lateral well, which is the third 
and final well in the 2013/14 drilling 
programme. This lateral well, Lublewo 
LEP-1ST1H, is planned to be drilled by way of 
a side-track in the Sasino shale and is 
expected to involve a long lateral section of 
up to 1,600 metres, as compared to the 
lateral section of 1,000 metres at the Lebien 
LE-2H well. The well will then be completed 
with a multi-stage stimulation using a 
cross-linked gel fluid. The completion 
programme is also expected to involve a 
larger number of perforations per stage, and 
larger volumes of proppant per stage, as 
compared with the Lebien LE-2H well. 
We expect our refined completion design to 
yield a significant improvement in flow rates 
as compared with flow rates achieved to 
date. Once stimulated and cleaned up, 
the well will be put on test for up to 90 days. 
We expect testing of the planned long 
lateral well to take place in the third quarter 
of 2014. 
We are pleased to report that our 2013/14 
programme is to date proceeding on time 
and on budget. A decision on the drilling, 
stimulation and testing of a second long 
lateral well, most likely in the underlying 
Piasnica shale horizon, will be made 
following the receipt of results from the test 
of the first lateral well. If we achieve positive 
results from the tests of one or both lateral 
wells, we will then consider with 
ConocoPhillips whether to proceed to 
design and implement a pilot production 
programme. 
Balance sheet impact
The cost of the 2013/14 work programme 
which we have committed to is expected  
to be approximately US$63 million gross,  
or approximately US$19 million net to the 
Group. We anticipate that following 
implementation of the programme outlined 
above and based on the budget we have 
agreed with ConocoPhillips, we will have 
cash reserves of approximately £17 million 
at the end of the third quarter of 2014, 
equivalent to approximately 20 pence  
a share. 
While we are committed to the programme 
outlined above, we will not commit to any 
further expenditure on our western Baltic 
Basin concessions in the absence of 
positive initial results from the planned 
lateral well. If such positive initial results do 
not materialise, we will consider all options 
at that stage including discussing with 
ConocoPhillips alternative options for the 
further exploration and appraisal of the 
western Baltic Basin concessions, which 
may include reviewing our continued 
participation in these concessions. In 
addition, 3Legs has agreed to a one-time 
right to cease its participation in these 
concessions at the point that 3Legs’ 
expenditure on this work programme 
reaches US$19 million on or before 
31 December 2014. 
Other assets
Following discussions with our 
shareholders, we committed last year to 
limit the geographical focus of our activities 
to Poland in order to enable us to maximise 
our focus on our Baltic Basin concessions, 
in particular our western Baltic Basin 
concessions. Since then, we have decided 
to relinquish our two remaining concessions 
near Krakow in southern Poland, rather than 
incur any further expenditure on these 
concessions. This follows the earlier 
surrender, in 2012, of one of our three 
concessions there.
In August 2013 we entered into a contract 
for the sale of our two German concessions 
(then undergoing renewal) to Rose 
Petroleum plc, in exchange for a 2% royalty 
interest and a €400,000 contribution to past 
costs, of which €300,000 was paid at 
signing. Renewal of the concessions was  17
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
completed in December 2013 and the  
sale to Rose Petroleum was completed  
in January 2014, when the remaining 
€100,000 was paid. We continue to 
investigate possible options for our three 
eastern Baltic Basin concessions, and are  
in active discussions with potential partners 
in relation to these.
Polish oil and gas sector 
Throughout the year we have played an 
active role in discussions relating to the 
future development of the oil and gas sector 
in Poland. In June 2013 I was elected 
President of the Management Board of 
OPPPW, the Polish exploration and 
production industry organisation, and in 
March 2014 I was re-elected for a further 
term as both a member of the Management 
Board and President. 
The Polish Government continued 
throughout most of 2013 to advocate its 
previously announced proposals for the 
modification of the fiscal and licensing 
regime relating to the Polish oil and gas 
sector. At the same time, industry 
representatives, including OPPPW, 
continued to express serious concerns 
about a number of aspects of the proposed 
reforms, including increases in the 
applicable tax and royalty rates, provisions 
for mandatory state participation in private 
sector exploration and production  
activities, and changes to the rules for 
granting and/or extending exploration  
and production licences. 
It was pleasing to see the Government 
signal a change of policy in recent months, 
concluding that it was premature to create 
excessive fiscal and regulatory barriers to 
the development of a domestic shale gas 
sector, before its commercial viability had 
yet been demonstrated. As a result, there  
is now a good prospect that a number  
of the more contentious parts of the 
Government’s proposals will be either 
dropped or postponed. We welcome the 
change of approach adopted by the 
Government, which we believe was to a 
large degree facilitated by the coordinated 
but collaborative attitude adopted by  
the OPPPW in its dialogue with the  
relevant ministries. 
Overhead reduction
In our last Annual Report, we committed to 
make a number of changes in the way the 
Group is organised and staffed, with a view 
to tightening the Group’s focus and 
reducing our cash administrative expenses, 
before foreign exchange movements, by 
approximately 50%. These changes were 
implemented so that, with effect from  
1 July 2013, we are on track to achieve  
the targeted savings. 
Conclusion
Although we have yet to demonstrate 
commercial flow rates, we believe that our 
activity in 2013 has enabled us to make 
substantial advances in our understanding 
of our target formations on our western 
Baltic Basin concessions, and of the 
techniques required to enhance the 
effectiveness of our stimulation and 
completion techniques in future wells.  
We look forward to continuing to improve 
our understanding as we proceed with the 
rest of our 2013/14 programme, with a view 
to applying the lessons learned to our long 
lateral well test planned for the third quarter 
of this year. 
We thank our shareholders for their 
continued support and look forward to 
sharing with them information on the 
progress of our 2013/14 work programme 
as we go forward. 
Kamlesh Parmar
Chief Executive Officer
20 March 2014
Key:
Slawoszyno LEP-1
Lebork
Karwia
Damnica
Warblino LE-1
Strzeszewo LE-1
Lebien LE-1 & LE-2H
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
Lublewo LEP-1
Lublewo LEP-1ST1H
Existing well and planned well
Existing well
3D seismic survey
3Legs/ConocoPhillips 
concession
Source: 3Legs Resources
3Legs’ high 
graded area
Piasnica isopach map
