 6
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
VISIT
WWW.3LEGSRESOURCES.COM
We have long believed, and continue to believe, that  
the area of our western Baltic Basin concessions 
represents the most prospective region of Poland  
for shale gas exploration. 
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
During 2013 we have continued to  
progress our core strategy of evaluating  
the shale gas potential of our three western 
concessions in the Baltic Basin in northern 
Poland, which represent the more gas-
prone part of our Baltic Basin acreage.  
We have long believed, and continue to 
believe, that the area of our western Baltic 
Basin concessions represents the most 
prospective region of Poland for shale  
gas exploration. ConocoPhillips acts  
as operator of the three concessions, 
following the exercise of its option to acquire 
a 70% interest in these concessions in 
September 2012. 
Strategic overview
During the year under review, together with 
ConocoPhillips we drilled one vertical well 
on our concessions and performed three 
rounds of testing on two other wells, namely 
a third round of testing on the Lebien LE-2H 
horizontal well and two single-stage 
stimulations and tests on the Strzeszewo 
LE-1 vertical well. Towards the end of the 
year we agreed with ConocoPhillips, and 
subsequently announced, our 2013/14 
drilling programme, which comprised the 
drilling of two vertical wells and is planned 
to culminate in the drilling of a long-length 
lateral well in the Sasino (or Ordovician O3) 
horizon, our primary shale target. This 
lateral section is planned to be stimulated 
with a multi-stage gel frac programme and 
tested for up to 90 days, in the third quarter 
of 2014. The design and execution of the 
lateral well programme will incorporate all 
our extensive learnings to date and we are 
looking forward to achieving a significant 
improvement over the rates achieved from 
the Lebien LE-2H lateral well, which was 
drilled in 2011 and was the last lateral well 
we drilled which targeted the Sasino shale. 
In our 2012 Annual Report we announced 
that, following discussions with major 
shareholders, the Board had determined 
that we should limit the geographical focus 
of the Group’s activities to Poland – which 
was already the Group’s core area of 
activity in any case – so as to be able to  
give sufficient priority to our appraisal 
programme in the Polish Baltic Basin. We 
have therefore proceeded to reduce our 
commitments elsewhere and to restructure 
our overhead to reflect our more focused 
strategy. Further details are contained in the 
Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic Review. 
Changing political climate
We have been encouraged by more positive 
signals across Europe, suggesting that the 
shale gas sector may be winning greater 
acceptance in the region than it had 
previously enjoyed. In the UK, the coalition 
Government has put considerable effort into 
promoting shale gas as an important 
opportunity for the country to diversify its 
sources of energy, while at the same time 
bringing jobs and other benefits to the 
economy. In Brussels, the European 
Commission has recently adopted a 
recommendation designed to ensure  
that proper environmental safeguards  
are in place for hydraulic fracturing, while 
encouraging member states to develop  
their own regimes for the regulation of shale 
gas exploration and related activities. 
In Poland, there has been an active debate 
between policymakers and industry for over 
a year now regarding the future taxation, 
licensing and regulation of shale gas 
activities. We were very pleased when the 
Government was effectively able to ease the 
deadlock which had developed, as was 
evidenced by some supportive statements 
from Prime Minister Tusk and the 
announcement of two new senior ministerial 
appointments. Since then, the Government 
has made it clear that it has no intention of 
placing obstacles in the way of the 
development of a shale gas industry in 
Poland, when the commercial potential of 
the Polish shale gas sector has yet to be 
demonstrated. The existing fiscal regime is 
expected to be maintained for the time 
being, while modifications to other aspects 
of the licensing and regulatory regime for 
shale activities in Poland are expected to 
address a number of the concerns raised 
by investors.
Tim Eggar
Chairman 7
Strategic Report
3Legs Resources plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Our Chief Executive Officer has recently 
been re-elected as President of OPPPW, 
the Polish upstream industry group, placing 
him in an ideal position to ensure industry 
concerns are heard. 
Extraordinary General Meeting
In February 2013, we received a requisition 
notice from a minority shareholder calling 
for an Extraordinary General Meeting 
(“EGM”) to discuss possible changes to the 
Board composition and to Group strategy. 
The requisition notice proposed a number 
of resolutions, including: the removal of the 
majority of the Directors (being all of the 
Directors except for Kamlesh Parmar and 
Richard Hills); the appointment of two new 
Directors, whom the Board understood to 
be representatives of the requisitioning 
shareholder; and the proposal that the 
Company adopt a new investment strategy 
as follows: “The investment objective of the 
Company is to manage the realisation of the 
Company’s existing asset portfolio and to 
maximise the return of invested capital to 
shareholders during the period ending on 
30 June 2015. During this period the 
Company shall not make any new 
investments other than to support its 
existing assets.”
As required by the requisitioning 
shareholder, an EGM was duly convened 
and held on 19 April 2013, to coincide with 
our Annual General Meeting. The Board 
unanimously advised shareholders to  
reject the proposed EGM resolutions, and 
they were indeed rejected by majorities  
of a minimum of 56% of votes cast. The 
Board welcomed this affirmation by 
shareholders of the Group’s existing  
Board and corporate strategy. 
Board changes
A number of Board changes took  
effect during the first half of the year, as 
announced in last year’s Annual Report. 
Robert Jeffcock and Clive Needham 
announced their resignations from the 
Board on 22 February 2013, although  
Clive Needham continues to sit on the 
board of a number of the Group’s subsidiary 
companies. Barry Rourke retired by rotation 
at the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 
2013 and decided not to present himself for 
re-election to the Board. 
This year David Bremner will retire from  
the Board by rotation and will present 
himself for re-election. We continue to  
keep the composition of the Board under 
regular review. 
Conclusion
We thank our shareholders for their 
continued support throughout the year and 
we look forward to sharing with them the 
results of our current drilling programme. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman
20 March 2014
Progress to date
Our focus has been on de-risking and high-grading our Baltic Basin 
concessions in the most cost-effective manner. 
• Two lateral wells drilled, stimulated and tested, Lebien LE-2H and Warblino 
LE-1H
• A further six vertical wells drilled and logged, of which five were cored
• 255 sq km of 3D seismic and 70 km of 2D seismic acquired
• 2013/14 exploration programme ongoing
3Legs, with ConocoPhillips, has been a leader in the exploration and appraisal 
of the Baltic Basin shale play. 
