 Chairman’s introduction
The format of our Annual report 
Our Annual report comprises three parts, a Strategic report 
followed by a Governance section and the Financial statements. 
The Strategic report includes a review of our business model, 
outlines our strategy and objectives and covers our geographical 
footprint, our people, the development of our businesses in 
2014 and our summary of some key past and potential future 
trends. This is followed by a financial analysis of our trading 
during 2014 and our position at the end of that year, consideration 
of our risk management strategy and our Corporate and social 
responsibility report.
Strategic progress achieved in 2014
The Group made continued strategic progress during the year. 
The initial task of the joint venture with Woolworths in Australia 
was the conversion of Woolworths’ existing meat processing 
facility at Bunbury in Western Australia, in order to substantially 
increase production of retail packed product lines. This was 
completed as planned in early 2014, with the new product lines 
being well received by the local market.
The construction of a new meat processing facility for Woolworths 
near Melbourne in Victoria, which will be operated by our joint 
venture company, remains on schedule, with production currently 
targeted to commence in the third quarter of 2015. This represents 
a major milestone in the continuing development of our 
joint venture.
Having announced last year a long term supply agreement with 
Tesco for the UK, under which the volumes supplied by Hilton are 
planned to increase substantially, a major investment programme 
was undertaken at the Group’s UK site in Huntingdon during 2014. 
This involved both a material extension of the site’s processing and 
packing capacity, the addition of a further production unit and the 
streamlining and modernization of the complete facility. The level 
of start-up costs involved in executing this complex project around 
a live production environment was higher than initially expected, but 
the project is now well advanced with the new production facilities 
fully commissioned.
Board composition
The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group 
and to achieve this it contains an appropriate mix of skills and depth 
of practical business experience, which is available to support and 
guide our management teams across a wide range of countries. 
There have been no changes in Board membership during 2014 and 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the 
Board for their continued support, sound counsel and expertise. 
2014 was a year 
of investment, 
well positioned 
for future growth.
Sir David Naish dl 
Non-Executive Chairman 
08
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2014 Group performance 
and dividend policy
Further volume growth was achieved during 
2014, despite challenging market conditions. 
Notwithstanding the higher than expected 
start-up costs incurred in connection 
with the Huntingdon redevelopment and 
the material impact of adverse exchange 
translation movements, continued profit 
progress was achieved in 2014.
The Group’s net income in 2014 at 
£18.1m was slightly higher than in 2013 
(£17.8m), with basic earnings per share 
at 25.0p in line with last year. Hilton has 
continued to generate significant cash 
flow during 2014 which enabled the Group 
to keep net borrowings at modest levels, 
despite a £24.9m increase in the level of 
investment expenditure. 
During 2014 we made major new 
investments to secure the Group’s future 
growth potential. The principal items of 
expenditure involved the redevelopment 
of the Group’s facilities in Huntingdon to 
enable the planned UK volume increases for 
Tesco and a re-investment programme at 
Vasteras in Sweden to replace production 
lines at the end of their economic life 
with state of the art equipment designed 
to achieve higher line speeds, reduced 
manning requirements and reduced unit 
packing costs.
The Group has maintained a progressive 
dividend policy since flotation and the Board 
considers that this remains appropriate 
given both the continued strategic progress 
achieved in 2014 and Hilton’s continuing 
level of cash generation. The 4.4% increase 
proposed in the final dividend for 2014 will 
increase the total dividends paid in respect 
of 2014 by 4.3%, as compared to last year.
Annual General Meeting
This year’s AGM will be held at the Old 
Bridge Hotel, 1 High Street, Huntingdon, 
Cambridgeshire PE29 3TQ on 12 May 2015 
at noon and my colleagues and I very much 
look forward to seeing many of you there.
Sir David Naish DL
Non-Executive Chairman
24 March 2015
State of the art 
packing 
facilities in  
six European 
countries
09
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
