 Chief Executive’s summary
Business model
Our business model is simple and straightforward. We operate 
large scale, highly mechanised, extensively automated and 
robotised meat processing and packing facilities for major 
international multiple retailers on a dedicated basis. The one 
exception is in Central Europe, where our facility in Poland supplies 
three multiple retailers in order to achieve critical mass, in terms of 
volumes supplied and the consequent ability to achieve competitive 
unit packing costs. 
Raw material meat is sourced, in conjunction with our retail 
partners, from a wide international base of proven suppliers. It is 
then processed, packed and delivered to the retailer’s distribution 
centres. Our plants are highly automated and use advanced 
robotics for the storage of raw materials and finished products. 
This developing technology has been extended in recent years 
both in the production environment and to the sorting of finished 
products by retailer store order, achieving material supply chain 
efficiencies for our customers.
In Europe we have six facilities each run by a local management 
team enhanced by specialist central leadership, advice and support. 
These businesses operate under the terms of five to ten year Long 
Term Supply Agreements with our retail partners, either on a cost 
plus or agreed packing rate basis. This serves to maximise volume 
throughput whilst minimising unit packing costs. In Australia our 
joint venture company receives a volume related management fee 
in respect of the facilities it operates on behalf of Woolworths. 
Under the long term agreements we have in place with our 
customers the parameters of our revenue are clearly defined. 
As well as income derived from the supply of retail packed 
meat products there are also provisions whereby our income 
can be increased or decreased subject to achievement of certain 
pre-agreed and pre-defined performance measures and targets.
To ensure our continued competitiveness, we seek to keep 
ourselves at the forefront of the meat packing industry. 
We constantly seek to drive further efficiencies, with a pipeline 
of clear identifiable cost initiatives and a willingness to continually 
challenge the status quo. We consider our modern, very well 
invested facilities to be a key factor in keeping unit packing costs 
as low as possible. Over the decade to December 2014 we have 
invested continuously across all areas of our business, including 
the sourcing of raw materials, the design of packaging materials, 
increased efficiency in processing and storage solutions and 
updating our IT infrastructure. Capital expenditure over this 
period has totalled nearly £200m. 
The strength  
of our long term 
partnerships  
is a key driver  
of our growth.
Robert Watson obe 
Chief Executive Officer 
10
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2014 We are a committed and loyal partner with a 
continuing record of delivering value through 
quality products with the highest levels of 
food safety, traceability and integrity, whilst 
providing a range of services which enable our 
customers to evolve and improve their meat 
supply chain management. Our customer 
base comprises high quality multiple 
retailers and our in depth understanding of 
our customers’ needs, together with those 
of their consumers, enables us to play an 
active role in managing their meat supply 
chains whilst providing agile responses to 
supply chain challenges as they arise. As our 
customers’ markets change and competition 
increases, we need to keep a constant focus 
on the challenges they face so as to be able 
to put forward flexible solutions, together 
with continuing increases in efficiency and 
cost competitiveness.
The strength of our long term partnerships 
with our retail customers has been a key 
driver of our growth since the Group was 
formed and will continue to underpin the 
Group’s strategy. Hilton’s business model has 
proved successful across a range of European 
countries, appropriately adapted in each case 
by working in close collaboration with its local 
customers to meet their specific requirements. 
Our experience to date continues to indicate 
that our business model can be successfully 
transferred to a number of new countries.
A reduced risk 
business 
model
11
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
