 On behalf of the Board of Hogg Robinson
Group plc, I am pleased to present results
for the twelve months ended 31 March
2007, the Group’s first annual results since
listing on the main market of the London
Stock Exchange.
This was a landmark year for HRG. 
We continue to pursue our strategy as 
a services company transitioning towards 
a higher margin business providing a
range of products and services which 
add demonstrable value to our clients’
corporate travel and related expenditure.
Revenue and EBITA continue to grow.
There were some challenges associated
with the protracted nature of the IPO
process which impacted the business
more than management had initially
expected. The completion of a successful
IPO was core to HRG’s long-term growth
strategy and a natural step to raise the
profile of the Group and transform it into
a focused, truly global, support services
business. It has also enabled the Group 
to create a more appropriate capital
structure and reduce the deficit of its
defined benefit pension scheme by over
£60m over the last twelve months. 
I am pleased to report that following the
IPO and with a resumed focus on the
business, we have made good progress 
in terms of new client signings, further
details of which are reported in the 
Chief Executive’s Review.
The industry in which we operate is
sometimes susceptible to external
influences. Corporate travel generally 
is sensitive to discretionary client
spending levels which fluctuate with the
economic outlook and concern about
safety issues. In this context, the first half
of the financial year was chiefly a period
of growth in corporate travel owing to 
a robust worldwide economy and the
continuing globalisation of commerce.
There was a modest, temporary
slowdown in certain markets after the
10 August 2006 airport security alert 
in the UK but, during the second half 
of our financial year, volume growth
among existing clients resumed in 
a very competitive environment. 
Among other significant developments
affecting business travel, the European
Union and United States announced an
Open Skies agreement which will enable
all EU and US airlines to operate
international routes between any two
cities connecting the two continents. 
This could create more options for
travellers, as airlines will have the ability 
to operate from cities and regions other
than their traditional home bases, and
provide an opportunity ultimately for HRG
to consult with clients on what it means
for their business and negotiate airline
deals, potentially, on their behalf.
Another trend, originating among UK 
and Nordic clients but starting to spread
elsewhere, is boardroom-level interest 
in how business travel affects the
environment. HRG has developed tools 
to help its clients audit their travel-related
greenhouse gas emissions and HRG
Consulting is providing consulting
services around this subject.
I am pleased to report that the Group
recorded a 4.8% rise in revenues to
£311.4m, resulting in an EBITA for
continuing businesses before exceptional
items of £44.1m, an increase of 9.2% year-
on-year. Client retention levels remain
strong, as anticipated, with levels in excess
of 90%. The European market continued
to be robust and we had a good
turnaround in AsPac. In North America,
where our US and Canadian businesses
have been integrated into one operation
as HRG North America, we saw the
acquisition of Executive Travel Associates
in February 2007 and some significant
new business wins. We have also
announced in June 2007 the acquisition
of Weinberg Travel, a Belgium based
family-owned corporate travel company,
currently trading as HRG Belgium.
As previously reported in the Prospectus
published in connection with the IPO 
(the ‘Prospectus’), the Board remains
committed to our dividend policy and
anticipates that the Company’s payout
ratio (the ratio of the sum of the dividends
declared to the post-tax profit after
minority interests) will be in the range of
50% to 65% in respect of the financial year
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
4 HRG Annual Report 2007 ending 31 March 2008. In line with this,
the Board has declared a final net dividend
of 2.8p per share, which will be paid on
1 October 2007 to those shareholders on
the register at 31 August 2007.
The Board of Hogg Robinson Group plc
was reconstituted at the time of the IPO
and full details of this were set out in the
Prospectus. In particular, I am pleased 
to report that the Board now includes 
two new highly experienced Non-
Executive Directors, George Battersby 
and Tony Isaac, who is the Group’s Senior
Independent Director. John Kennerley,
Group Finance Director, will be leaving
the Board in the course of the coming
year having made a sterling contribution
over the past seven years and seen the
Company through some major changes.
We are currently searching for a suitable
successor and thank John for his past
contribution and continuing support.
The Company’s Nominations, Audit and
Remuneration Committees were also 
reconstituted at the time of the IPO. 
Each of these Committees complies with
the requirements of the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance and has clear
terms of reference established by the
Board. Full details of the Board’s approach
to governance is set out in the report 
on Corporate Governance on page 39. 
The Company has also adopted 
a clear approach to its corporate social
responsibility with polices which the
Board believes are appropriate to all
relevant stakeholders in the Company’s
performance. Details of these policies are
also set out in the Directors’ Report on
page 38.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues
for their continued support and, on 
your behalf, express my thanks to all of
HRG’s employees without whom this
year’s achievements would not have 
been possible.
John Coombe
Chairman
28 June 2007
HRG Annual Report 2007 5
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2007 2006
£m £m +/-
Revenue 311.4 297.2 4.8%
EBITA 44.1 40.4 9.2%
EBITA margin 14.2% 13.6% 4.2%
Operating profit 35.4 39.3 (9.9)%
Profit before tax 12.9 2.1 514.3%
Cash generated from operations* 41.0 30.6 34.0%
Earnings per share 4.3p 0.5p 760.0%
Earnings per share (pro-forma basis) 6.5p – –
Net debt (104.0) (138.8) 25.1%
All numbers relate to continuing operations only.
Earnings before Interest, Taxation and Amortisation (‘EBITA’) is calculated as operating profit from
continuing operations before exceptional items, including HRG’s share of results of associates and
joint ventures, but before net finance costs, income tax, amortisation and impairment.
*Before special pension contributions.
0
10
20
30
40
50
EBITA
£m
04 05 06 07
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
REVENUE
£m
04 05 06 07
