 Overview
The financial year ended 31 March 2007 was
one of transition and progress for HRG.
During the course of the year, we continued
the repositioning of the Company as a
provider of services specialising in the
corporate travel and related markets, and
the subsequent rebranding to HRG. In
October 2006, we completed successfully
our Listing on the main market of the
London Stock Exchange.
As stated at our Interim Results, this period
of change started with the announcement
that Hogg Robinson was pursuing an
independent strategy from the one we had
followed previously as a co-shareholder in
Business Travel International (BTI). It transpired
later that, as a result, a number of clients 
and prospective clients postponed their
tender processes while they digested 
the implications of our actions and the
consequences on the industry. In addition,
in the run up to the IPO, we now know that
a number of clients delayed their decisions
until the outcome of the IPO was known.
Fortunately, neither singularly nor in
aggregate were the client losses and the
delay of new clients material and, as also
confirmed during our Interim Results, the
aggregate of new signings versus losses 
was pleasingly much higher. 
The results for the year have also been
positively affected by the cost cutting
measures taken early in the year together
with the impact of a number of other
factors, including the FIFA World Cup™. 
As a result, we grew EBITA from continuing
operations before exceptional items by
9.2%. Our EBITA margin has also grown from
13.6% to 14.2% in the same period as a
result of continuing focus on costs and
improving business mix.
Restructuring and efficiency
programmes
A key part of our strategy is to focus on the
higher value added, ‘managed’type of client
which is more international in nature. In
executing this strategy, we are reducing our
reliance on income from traditional
suppliers such as airlines, towards more
stable, annuity-like income for which clients
pay in respect of the value we add to their
corporate travel and related expenditure.
In order to provide these clients with a more
seamless international service, we are
operationally restructuring HRG from the
traditional ‘country’organisation into three
geographic divisions each headed by a
Regional President. These divisions will
operate increasingly by the main business
streams within which we operate, namely
Corporate Travel Management, Expense
Management, Consulting, Events &
Meetings Management, and Sports, all of
which have a good pipeline of new sales.
We are adopting a phased approach to the
restructuring and efficiency programme,
which originally started in our North
America division with the integration of
the separate businesses within the region.
This programme has now started in Europe
and once this has been completed, we will
embark upon a similar programme early in
2008/09 in our Asia Pacific (AsPac) division.
Although it is difficult to precisely predict
the cost of the European restructuring
programme, not least because of
employment legislation in certain
European countries, we are hopeful of a
net benefit in 2007/08 and a full year
benefit in 2008/09 of between £5m-£7m.
Regional performance
Europe’s strong position within the Group
continues to be driven largely by the UK.
The number of substantial client wins,
including the recently publicised large and
prestigious Ministry of Defence/Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office (MOD/FOC)’s
decision to award us their contract, serves
to underpin our top ranking. 
North America also continues to develop its
service capabilities albeit early sales growth
was slower than previously hoped. This,
combined with start-up and restructuring
costs and the transfer of certain revenues
from North America to Central Revenue
following the introduction of a new global
contract, has resulted in a slight negative
variance of £0.3m in EBITA compared to the
previous year. We anticipate, however, that
the situation will improve in the coming
year as the new structure takes effect and
we benefit from expected new client
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
6 HRG Annual Report 2007 income following a number of recent new
client signings.
The AsPac region has benefited from the
appointment of a new President, Kevin
Ruffles, to bring a more cohesive approach
to sales, technology and service and, as a
result, profits have increased substantially on
the previous year. Although the region is still
the smallest in terms of profit contribution,
it is strategically very important to the way
we function globally. We anticipate growth
from this region in the coming years.
REVENUE 
By source 2007 2006
from continuing operations £m £m
Europe 245.7 239.4
North America 53.9 46.3
AsPac 11.8 11.5
311.4 297.2
EBITA 
Before exceptional items 2007 2006
from continuing operations £m £m
Europe 39.2 36.1
North America 4.4 4.7
AsPac 0.5 (0.4)
44.1 40.4
Global capability
The international corporate travel
management market comprises four main
global players (of which HRG is one) that
have both the experience and the capability
to offer a truly global service. Our acquisition
in June 2007 of Weinberg Travel in Belgium
means HRG will have ownership or control
in 25 countries, supported by a strong,
contracted partner network extending to
approximately 100 countries that we
continue to manage. 
Since launching our HRG brand, when
most of the former BTI Partners joined the
new HRG network, we are delighted with
progress in terms of establishing our
global HRG footprint. Crucially, the
majority of our Partners have worked with
Hogg Robinson since the mid 1990s and
therefore have the expertise and
experience of working in a global
environment with us. We are delighted to
have strengthened the network further by
welcoming new Partners over the last
year including those from Luxembourg,
Mexico, Netherlands and Tanzania.
HRG’s strategy has been to position
ourselves as a rounded corporate services
company offering a range of services
designed to add value to our corporate
clients’ travel and related expenditure.
This strategy is being accepted well in
the market and HRG is included in the
majority of major global and international
tenders. As evidenced by our recent client
wins, we are achieving a pleasing number
of successes. In today’s international
corporate travel marketplace, although
size is still important, it is the value and
knowledge that we bring to our clients in
proven international experience, creativity
and influence, which we believe is
winning many bids.
The range of services we offer is falling
increasingly within the remit of our clients’
procurement departments who, in
addition to the cost benefits we provide
through consolidation of their corporate
travel and related expenditure, are also
recognising our ability to offer a
measurable, quality service in other areas.
Events & Meetings Management is one of
the latest areas where our clients are
focusing their expense consolidation
efforts. In our aim to maximise the
opportunity, HRG has repositioned its
business divisions which are headed up
by industry specialists from both the Events
& Meetings Management and Sports
backgrounds. In addition, our acquisition of
Ian Flint & Associates, a well known and
respected industry consultancy, has
enabled HRG to bring together our
independent consulting capabilities which
we are now expanding globally.
Expense Management is also a significant
potential growth area for us. Our investment
in Spendvision online expense
management processing is already having
the predicted effect of helping us maximise
savings opportunities for our clients.
Client activity
Our client retention rate remained in excess
of 90%. Clients who have retendered and/or
elected to stay with HRG this past year
include Agilent (Global), BMW (Germany),
Bombardier (Canada), Motorola (UK), the
International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF 
in Europe) and UBS (UK/Switzerland).
I am pleased to report that the aggregate
of new signings by far outweighed any
losses in terms of full year effect. New
clients we have welcomed include Credit
Suisse (UK, USA and Switzerland), Daimler
Chrysler (USA), DHL (AsPac), Gambro
(Global), Home Office (UK), KPMG
(Australia), Merrill Lynch (USA), QinetiQ (UK),
PepsiCo (Europe, Middle East and Africa
(EMEA) and AsPac) and the previously
mentioned MOD/FOC. These clients will
contribute in part to 2007/08 but in full 
to 2008/09.
In addition, I am pleased to report that no
significant client has been lost since the
Interim Results.
The sales pipeline for Spendvision, which
represents an important part of the
strategic direction for HRG, is extremely
satisfying. As well as providing expense-
related online corporate processes to our
own clients, Spendvision increasingly
creates own/white-label services for
clients, such as major banks and mobile
telecommunications companies, to offer 
to their customers
These wins have already started to benefit
Spendvision’s financial performance
which we anticipate will make a
substantial contribution to profits in the
full year 2007/08.
Acquisitions
We remain committed to expansion via
acquisitions where these fulfil our
strategic objectives and meet our financial
tests. As a result, in February 2007 we
purchased Executive Travel Associates,
a Washington DC based travel
management company mainly servicing
clients in the legal sector on the East
Coast of the USA. In June 2007, we also
announced the acquisition of Weinberg
Travel, a Belgium based family-owned
corporate travel company. We anticipate
further infill acquisitions in the current
year which we intend to fund from our
existing resources.
HRG Annual Report 2007 7 Acquisitions of travel management
companies were also made during the year
in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia,
and of the consulting business of Ian Flint &
Associates in the UK. These have now all
been fully integrated into their regional
divisions and synergies continue to be
realised as part of the restructuring and
efficiency programme. 
Technology
Technology is a vital component in both our
capability to deliver service and our ability
to generate margin improvement in future
years. Past investments have enabled us to
develop a stand-alone independent
technology platform, HRG Universal Super
Platform, which will be rolled out in Europe
and North America. It will, among other
benefits, enable our front-end booking
processes to link directly to wherever
inventories of air seats, hotel beds and car
rentals are held, giving us the capability to
link directly to airlines, hotel groups, the
Internet and classic global distribution
systems (GDS). The ability to link to an array
of inventory is becoming very important
within our industry as the traditional
relationship between classic reservation
systems and suppliers changes.
Another important technological
development is the linking together of
travel reservation centres in the UK,
Hungary, Sweden, Singapore and Canada.
As clients work around the globe, we are
able to adopt a ‘follow the sun’strategy with
our service centres providing support for
clients regardless of geography or time 
of day.
Airlines in the United States of America and
in the UK have renegotiated agreements
with the GDS through which HRG makes
air, hotel and car reservations. Where
appropriate, HRG has signed opt-in
agreements with the GDS which effectively
reduces our income from them but shields
us from new surcharges certain airlines will
be making for using the GDS. It also
secures necessary access to appropriate
fares and inventory for our clients.
We are known as an innovative company
and our proprietary technology products,
including our traveller tracking capability
and independent data warehousing, are
increasingly well received by our clients 
in this security-conscious age.
Outlook
The first half of our year is generally around
30% of our full year profitability. Although
we expect the full year 2006/07 to be one
of continued growth, the combined effects
of the delay in new client signings
(mentioned previously), lack of World Cup
income and costs of the European
restructuring may mean that performance
in the first half this year could be lower than
in the first half of 2006/07. However, as also
mentioned previously, the benefits of the
restructuring programme in Europe and
the continuing growth in Spendvision 
are expected to drive another year of
satisfactory growth in 2007/08. Our success
will continue to be based on providing
more of our value enhancing solutions to
our geographically diverse client base.
The market remains buoyant albeit, as we
had predicted, very competitive at the low
cost basic transaction end of the business
in some markets. Our recent sales wins,
continuing focus on higher margin products
and our ongoing efficiency programme
mean that we remain confident of the
prospects for the coming year.
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
28 June 2007
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
8 HRG Annual Report 2007
