 Overview
HRG provides services linked to corporate
travel and its related expenses. Its principal
target market comprises multinational
companies which benefit from having these
expenditures independently managed. 
HRG owns operations in 25 countries with
contracted partners operating under the
HRG brand in a further 81 countries. 
The financial year ended 31 March 2008
will probably best be remembered for the
substantial increase in the cost of oil and
the crisis in the financial markets. Despite
these challenging conditions, we were able
to deliver a creditable performance from
our managed business, particularly when
measured against a strong prior year that
included a one-off pre-tax benefit of £3.4m
from the FIFA World Cup™. Unfortunately,
we failed to see a downturn in EMM and
unmanaged SME quickly enough to take
remedial action and, regrettably, this
resulted in our issuing a cautionary trading
statement during March.
We were pleased to show continued
organic revenue growth whilst maintaining
our high level of client retention. We
completed the consolidation of our North
American acquisitions and continue to
look at how we can streamline these
operations further. During the year we
restructured the European operations away
from the traditional country orientation in
order to provide a seamless international
service to our multinational clients and also
to lower our cost base for the future. 
Our new structure will drive closer
alignment of our service offerings within
Corporate Travel Services, which includes
Corporate Travel Management, Consulting,
EMM and Sports. Spendvision, our expense
management business, doubled in scale
during the year and continues to represent
an exciting growth opportunity. 
In October 2007, we completed the
acquisition of the business of Weinberg
Travel BVBA, HRG’s existing network partner
in Belgium, which has already been fully
integrated into our European operations.
Last year’s acquisitions in the USA, the
Czech Republic and Poland all performed
well during the year. We also increased our
ownership in Spendvision to 58% during
the year. Further small acquisitions will be
considered, particularly in markets which
handle the consolidation of travel
programmes and where inclusion in the
HRG global network will enhance value.
Looking at the financial performance,
revenue increased by 6.7% to £332.2m.
EBITA was down £3.8m to £40.3m, which is
close to the prior year performance after
adjusting for the one-off benefit of the FIFA
World Cup™ in the prior-year. 
In the past we have reported EBITA
margin. Going forward, we will be
concentrating on operating profit 
margin, which is a measure that is more
commonly used. The underlying
operating profit margin has reduced from
12.5% to 10.5% as a result of the World
Cup impact, margin pressure in Germany
and the Nordic region, coupled with the
costs of investment in new client start-ups
and infrastructure improvement in 
North America.
Exceptional items produced a net gain
of £1.2m. We are pleased to have
concluded our arbitration with Kuoni
Reisen Holding AG (Kuoni) which
produced a pre-tax exceptional gain of
£4.4m, net of expenses. This has however
been largely offset by two exceptional
costs. The first is a £2.4m charge for
estimated unrecoverable cost associated
with a long-standing contract in
North America following a review by
our new Group Finance Director.
The second is a technical accounting
item, namely a £0.8m adjustment to
goodwill associated with recognition
of German deferred tax assets on
acquisitions in earlier years. 
People
HRG has a unique culture, with an enviable
level of employee loyalty and commitment.
Our people make the difference and 
I would like to thank them sincerely for 
their dedication and enthusiasm during a
very challenging year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
6 HRG Annual Report 2008 The year saw a number of management
changes which were a necessary part of
our re-shaping of the business.
Tragically, we had the premature death 
of our senior management colleague Reto
Bacher, who was President of EMM and
Sports. His enormous presence and wise
counsel will be sadly missed. 
Roger Westwood, Overseas Investments
Director, retired from the Executive Board
on 31 March 2008 and Mike Platt, Group
Industry Affairs Director, will retire from 
the Executive Board on 30 June 2008. Both
Roger and Mike have made a significant
contribution to HRG over many years and
we thank them sincerely for their support
and contribution. 
These roles have been incorporated within
the existing team.
Client activity
The net new business wins for the year
were well ahead of the prior year and we
enter the year with a pipeline of new
prospects that is at least as strong as last
year. We are pleased with our new signings,
which include a number of clients yet 
to start trading. New clients that we
welcomed to HRG and who are yet to
trade for a full year include Ericsson, 
IMG, Interpublic, Lloyds TSB, Ministry of
Defence/Foreign & Commonwealth Office
(MOD/FCO), Pepsico, Technip, TeliaSonera
and Weatherford. At the same time, the
retention rate for existing clients remained
above 90%. These figures provide tangible
evidence that clients see the real value 
that HRG is providing in an increasingly
competitive market. On the new client
front, the new financial year has 
started well.
The trend to outsource travel management
services is well established, although 
the client tender process is becoming
longer. It is common for a global bid to
take 12 to 18 months from initial
submission to implementation.
Clients seek to implement global travel
management programmes in different
ways, with early adopters generally
preferring to set global travel policies
centrally and implement from a single
location. More recently we have seen
many clients seeking to set policies
centrally or regionally and then implement
on a regional and even local country
basis. HRG’s flexible approach to
delivering bespoke solutions and a strong
geographic footprint is proving to be a
key driver in winning new business.
Awards
Our high levels of client service have
continued to be recognised through
industry awards including:
• Business Travel Agency of the Year to
HRG Belgium (Travel Magazine’s 2007
Travel Awards);
• Best Business Travel Management
Company (Turnover above £50m) to HRG
UK (Buying Business Travel Awards 2008).
Technology
Travel management is a data-rich
business and technology is critical to
success. Within our industry, technology
serves our clients in a wide variety of
disciplines from accessing information on
travel routes and alternative pricing to
self-booking tools and passenger tracking.
For HRG, it enables our staff to access
information from several sources
simultaneously, thereby allowing us to
deliver a swift and cost-effective service
to our clients around the world on a
24x7 basis. Our decision to develop our
own technology has proved to be a real
unique selling point since it provides us
with the ability to offer products and
solutions that address our clients’ needs
rather than fitting our clients’ requirements
to a template.
We made some significant advances
in technology during the year.
The deployment of our stand-alone,
independent technology platform,
HRG Universal Super Platform™ (USP),
began in Europe and North America. As the
name suggests, this technology provides
us with a base from which to link, for
HRG Annual Report 2008 7 example, our front-end booking process
to air, hotel and car suppliers and their
services. During the year, successful pilot
schemes, running our own electronic HRG
Point of Sale™ (HRG POS) systems off the
USP , were conducted in London and New
York. Using this technology we are now able
to offer more flexibility to our clients,
delivering travel products and services that
are tailored to their specific needs. This
system also helps us work more effectively
with our suppliers, providing HRG with
access to powerful new information. For
example, we are now able to offer clients
online check-in facilities directly through our
system as well as specific menu pricing and
seat assignments from suppliers to
customers. This platform could also enable us
to hold inventory for our clients in the future.
Operating review
The consolidated results are as follows:
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £332.2m 311.4m +6.7%
Operating profit £36.0m £35.4m +£0.6m
Underlying 
operating profit 
(1)
£34.8m £39.0m -£4.2m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin 
(1)
10.5% 12.5% -2.0%
Year end capital 
employed
(2)
£188.0m £179.6m +£8.4m
Return on capital 
employed
(2)
18.6% 21.9% -3.3%
(1)
before exceptional items
(2) 
includes goodwill
Europe
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £247.7m £241.0m +2.8%
Operating profit £36.2m £33.7m +£2.5m
Underlying 
operating 
profit 
(1)
£32.6m £36.6m -£4.0m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin 
(1)
13.2% 15.2% -2.0%
(1)
before exceptional items
Overall our European performance during
the year was mixed. Reported revenue was
up by 2.8%, essentially unchanged after
allowing for the small positive impact of
acquisitions and changes in exchange
rates. Underlying operating profit was
down by £4.0m, but is measured against 
a prior year that included a one-off benefit
from the FIFA World Cup™. Lower profits
from German and the Nordic SME clients
were offset by strong performances in 
the UK and Switzerland and underscore
the resilient nature of our managed 
client business. 
As the credit squeeze dented client
confidence towards the end of the year,
we did experience some softening of
demand in our EMM and unmanaged SME
activities, particularly in the Nordic region
and Germany, and this had an effect on
the full-year result. Although we initially
reacted too slowly to these changes, we
have now rebalanced to the right level. 
We have also integrated EMM activities
with those of managed travel, thereby
providing coordinated contact with our
managed client base. However, we remain
well placed to take advantage of any
increased demand as economic 
conditions improve.
Our European restructuring programme,
which is designed to improve our service 
to multinational clients, was completed
during the year at a total cost of £1.9m.
Savings of £3.3m were delivered in the year.
An important part of this programme was
the re-positioning of our operations in
Germany, one of the three largest
managed travel markets in Europe, where
we have now appointed a new managing
director to drive growth. We also enhanced
our service offering through investment in
a new integrated telephony system to link
our major European call centres in
Glasgow, Berlin and Stockholm, and also
our low-cost service centre in Budapest.
The new system has already improved call
management by optimising capacity, skill
set and language across country
boundaries.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
CONTINUED
8 HRG Annual Report 2008 The recent acquisitions in the Czech
Republic, Poland and Belgium all
performed as expected during the year
and we also added new partners in
Kosovo, Luxembourg and Israel to the
HRG worldwide network. 
In the UK, the implementation of our
contract with the MOD/FCO began last
December on a phased basis. As with most
large new contracts, start-up costs
impacted profitability in the early months
and we look forward to the full benefit
accruing in the future.
In Spring 2008, our three Manchester
offices were consolidated into one new
state-of-the-art centre in the heart of
Manchester’s business district.
North America
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £65.3m £56.3m +16.0%
Operating 
(loss)/profit £(1.3)m £1.8m -£3.1m
Underlying 
operating profit 
(1)
£1.1m £2.5m -£1.4m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin 
(1)
1.7% 4.4% -2.7%
(1)
before exceptional items
This was a challenging year for our North
American operations as we re-positioned
the business for the future. The reported
revenue increase of 16.0% includes 5.4% 
of organic growth together with the full
year impact of Executive Travel Associates
(ETA) and a minimal amount from changes
in exchange rates.
Implementation costs for new clients,
together with continued investment in
capacity and infrastructure contributed to
the decline in underlying operating profit
for the period. There is significant pressure
on margins in this very competitive market
and we will continue to improve the
efficiency of our service delivery. To that
end, work on amalgamating our businesses
in the USA and Canada was completed
early in the year and we are continuing to
drive additional productivity now that the
new structure is more settled. 
We opened a new state-of-the-art service
centre in Charlotte during the year which
again included the launch of a new
telephony system. In addition to providing
capacity for future growth, this will now
enable us to provide a global ‘follow the
sun’ service to our clients by linking our
offices in Singapore, London and Halifax,
Canada. An additional benefit is that we
are able to track clients wherever they are
in the world. In addition we expanded our
operations in Halifax and New York to
handle new business.
ETA, which was acquired in February 2007,
also performed well and contributed an
additional £1.9m of operating profit during
the year.
Following a review by our new Group
Finance Director, we identified some
potentially unrecoverable costs associated
with a long-standing contract and have
recognised an exceptional charge of
£2.4m. We have made changes to our
financial procedures to improve the
control of this contract.
We continued to build brand awareness 
in North America and this undoubtedly
contributed to the fact that we are now
included on invitations to tender for almost
all major contracts in the region. As a result,
we have yet to see the full benefit from
several new clients or from regional
extensions of existing clients that were
achieved during the year. We built a
healthy pipeline of new business during
the year and that momentum has
continued. I am pleased to report that the
new financial year has started well. 
Asia Pacific
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Change
Revenue £19.1m £14.1m +35.8%
Operating 
profit/(loss) £1.1m £(0.1)m +£1.2m
Underlying 
operating profit
(1)
£1.1m – +£1.1m
Underlying 
operating profit 
margin
(1)
5.8% – +5.8%
(1)
before exceptional items
HRG Annual Report 2007 9 10 HRG Annual Report 2008
The region performed strongly throughout
the year and delivered healthy revenue
growth of 35.8%, equivalent to organic
growth of 27.7% after adjusting for
changes in exchange rates. Underlying
operating profit increased by £1.1m due
to a strong performance in Australia.
Operating profit includes Australia and
Singapore, but excludes the joint ventures
in Hong Kong and China.
In Australia we were successful in
winning state and federal government
business including signing contracts with
the Queensland Government and the
Department of Water and Environment.
We are pleased to announce that we
have commenced a pilot phase with
Queensland Government on our fully
integrated travel and expense
management system. This system enables
a client to handle the process from travel
authoristation to expense reclaim through
a single application environment. Using
our USP this modular delivery will give
clients the choice of individual or a full
suite of products. We also opened a new
service centre in Canberra to manage
travel for the Australian members of
Parliament and the federal government.
In Hong Kong we relocated to new offices
at the harbour to provide a better working
environment for our staff. This move has
already improved our ability to recruit staff
in a competitive market.
Spendvision
HRG’s Spendvision/Expense Management
business continued to grow rapidly during
the year and more than doubled its
revenue to £6.1m, with operating profit
improving from breakeven to £0.7m. These
results are part of the geographic analysis
above. Spendvision’s business includes a
number of clients who are not HRG travel
clients and remains an exciting long-term
opportunity for the Group. During the year
we increased our ownership interest by 
7% to 58%.
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
3 June 2008
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
CONTINUED
