 I am pleased to present results for our first
full year since the Group was re-listed on
the London Stock Exchange. It has been 
a difficult year for many companies but,
despite the short-term challenges, we have
come through with a good business that is
well positioned for the longer term.
Our strategy remains clearly focused on
managed travel for corporate clients and 
I am delighted to report that, in addition to
continuing high levels of client retention,
we also added some significant new clients
during the year. We also continue to have a
strong pipeline of prospects for the future.
We are working with our existing clients to
provide a range of services which add value
to their travel and related expenditure,
and deliver improved operational
efficiencies and cost savings through the
use of proprietary technology.
Towards the end of the financial year we
recognised some softening of demand in
our Events & Meetings Management (EMM)
activities and unmanaged (SME) clients,
particularly in Europe. These activities only
account for around 20-30% of revenues but
are much more susceptible to any general
economic slowdown. We identified the
downturn too slowly and are disappointed
that we had to lower expectations during
March. We have now rebalanced to the
right cost levels, whilst remaining ready to
take advantage of any improvement in
market conditions.
Managed travel has historically been more
resilient than unmanaged travel in times 
of economic uncertainty. However, no
business can be immune to the fallout
from the continuing crisis of confidence
in financial markets. Certainly, we began
to see some changes in the final quarter
of the financial year and some of our
managed clients, particularly those in
financial services, have sought to reduce
their overall travel expenditure. However,
as we have shown in the past, we can
help clients reduce their travel budgets
and at the same time protect our own
financials through the use of a wide range
of services and products designed to
reduce costs for our clients. 
Our Spendvision/Expense Management
business doubled in size during the year,
albeit from a small base, and remains an
exciting higher-growth part of our portfolio
in the longer term.
Financial highlights
Group revenue for the year increased by
6.7% to £332m while reported basic
earnings per share increased by 28% to
5.5p. Comparisons with prior-year earnings
are complicated by the inclusion of nearly
six months of pre-IPO activity when the
level of interest costs and the number of
shares outstanding were significantly
different. We also enjoyed a one-off benefit
of £3.4m from the FIFA World Cup™ in the
prior year. Looking at our primary measure
of performance during the year, EBITA, our
performance was very close to the prior
year after adjusting for the FIFA World Cup™.
The year end net debt was £110m, which
was essentially unchanged from the prior
year after allowing for an increase of £6m
due to movements in exchange rates. 
The Group’s total pension deficits reduced
by £12m to £48m before tax. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending an unchanged
final dividend of 2.8p, which will be payable
on 1 August 2008 to Shareholders on the
register as at 4 July 2008. This brings the
full-year dividend to 4.0p per share which
represents 73% of the reported earnings
per share and means that the full-year
dividend is covered 1.4 times by earnings.
The payout is slightly higher than the
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
4 HRG Annual Report 2008 50-65% indicated in our dividend policy
at the time of the IPO. A scrip dividend
alternative will be offered and the 
relevant documents are being posted 
to Shareholders during June.
Shareholders will be pleased to note that
the final dividend payment has been
bought forward by two months compared
to last year.
Looking ahead, we remain committed 
to at least maintaining the current full-year
dividend with the intention of adopting 
a progressive dividend policy as improved
earnings bring the payout back to the 
50-65% range indicated at the time of 
the IPO.
People
I am delighted to welcome Julian
Steadman who joined the Board as Group
Finance Director from Christian Salvesen,
replacing John Kennerley in December
2007. Julian has quickly settled into the
role and is already making a significant
and valuable contribution to the business.
On behalf of my Board colleagues, I would
like to thank John for his sterling
contribution during his time at HRG.
Our people continue to be our greatest
asset and, in a business which relies on
delivering excellent service, it is essential
that we recruit and retain excellent talent.
In a year of business growth and
repositioning, our staff have adapted 
well and I would like to thank all of them –
around the world – for their continued 
hard work, enthusiasm, loyalty and
professionalism. Their dedication and
commitment to providing world class
service to our clients is an integral part 
of our offer and is reflected in the
favourable feedback that we receive
regularly from our clients. 
Outlook
Market conditions remain challenging 
and economic uncertainties exist. 
However, we enter the new financial year
with a strong pipeline of new prospects
and expect to see the benefit from new
clients added last year together with our
continuing focus on reducing costs
flowing through to earnings. We remain
cautious about our EMM and SME activities
in the short term. Overall, supported 
by the proven resilience of our managed
travel business, we expect to deliver
growth this year.
John Coombe
Chairman
3 June 2008
HRG Annual Report 2008 5
