 I indicated in last year’s statement that the
business of managed travel for corporate
clients has been, historically, more resilient
than many other travel related businesses
in times of economic uncertainty. This
year’s results support that view.
The global economic crisis that was already
in evidence in the financial sector this time
last year has worsened and spread.
However, the Company has performed in
line with consensus earnings estimates and
has produced an underlying pre-tax profit
at only 9% below last year. Further, with
effective cash management, we have
reduced the year-end net debt by £25m
to £85m. Under the circumstances this is
a very satisfactory achievement.
HRG’s resilience stems from its substantial
fee-based revenue and its ability to adjust
its cost base as circumstances change
without sacrificing the delivery of first class
service to its clients. Given the significant
changes that occurred in the second half
of the year, this active cost management
has helped these results to a small extent
and will contribute significantly more to
the new financial year. This will help offset
the impact of the challenging market on
our future revenues and fee-earning ability.
Further, when combined with our strong
client retention and continuing success in
winning competitive tenders for new
clients, we are confident that we have the
right business model and believe we are
well positioned to benefit from the
economic upturn when it comes.
Cash generation and debt levels are key
areas of focus for us, particularly in the
present climate. After careful consideration,
the Board announced in February 2009
that the Company’s future would be best
protected by re-basing the dividend and
retaining the cash so released. As such, the
interim dividend of 1.2p per share that was
paid in January 2009 will be the only
dividend this year. We remain committed
to a progressive dividend policy and
expect to increase dividends from the re-
based level of 1.2p as soon as it is prudent
to do so. It is likely that one third of future
dividends will be paid as an interim and
two thirds as a final payment. Based on the
31 March 2009 year end share price of
15.5p, our re-based dividend of 1.2p per
share represents a yield of 7.7%.
Pension funding is another important issue
for us. We have recently agreed with the
trustees of our principal scheme in the UK
that, as part of their latest actuarial review
and in spite of the increase in liabilities,
cash contributions would remain at
essentially the same level as agreed at
the time of the IPO in 2006.
Shareholders should be aware that our
investor base has changed significantly
during the course of the last year. Two
industry participants, one a long-term
business partner (Dnata) and the other
(Beverweerd Investments BV) connected
to a prior partner with whom we still have
some surviving joint interests, hold 23%
and 21% of the share capital respectively.
The top ten shareholders hold around 80%
of the total capital of the Company and the
current register includes few of those who
invested at the time of the IPO.
I will leave the detailed discussion of
business performance to the Chief
Executive in his statement, in conjunction
with the Directors’ Report and financial
statements. I hope you agree that, in a
difficult global economy, this has been a
good year for the Company.
Looking forward, we do not expect much
change to the current market conditions
during 2009 and have adjusted our cost
base to reflect that expectation. Our
strategy is unchanged and we remain in
good shape to take advantage of the
economic recovery when it takes place.
In closing, let me on behalf of the Board
thank the executives and staff of every
level who continue to rise to the challenge
of delivering the best client service and
through that, the best possible Company
performance. They hold the future of
the Company in their hands and I know
they will strive tirelessly to build value for
clients, for their fellow employees and
for shareholders.
John Coombe
Chairman
28 May 2009
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
HRG Annual Report 2009 13
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
