 Our business
HRG is an international corporate travel
services company operating in nearly 120
countries across the world. We are the
UK’s leading provider and one of only
three globally-experienced travel
management companies. The Group
owns or controls operations in 25 markets
throughout Europe, North America and
Asia Pacific and, coupled with a network
of contracted partners, is able to offer a
truly global service.
Our diversified client portfolio ensures that
the Group is not overly exposed to any
individual client or sector. Our top ten
clients account for 22% of total client
revenue, with no single client accounting
for more than 5%. Employee travel for our
largest sector, Banking & Finance, accounts
for less than 20% of client revenue.
The bulk of our revenue comes from
clients who typically sign 3-5 year contracts
with us. Indeed, we have worked with
several clients for more than 15 years.
For the most part, we receive fees from
clients for the work that we do rather than
being dependent on commissions from
suppliers. This work covers a range of
services, from simple bookings to data
analysis and supplier negotiation. We are
not generally exposed to changes in the
class of travel, for example from a switch
from business to economy class. Our fee
arrangements are structured to meet the
needs of each client and include fixed
management fees, variable transaction
fees and cost-plus arrangements.
We also work closely with travel suppliers
such as airlines, rail operators, hotels and
car hire companies where we are able to
improve the efficiency of their distribution
systems. Supplier revenue is generally
covered by service level agreements that
include, in addition to some volume
dependency, promotional support, the
provision of information and support in
establishing more efficient distribution
methods with new technological solutions.
Our market
As the global economic climate
deteriorated through the course of our
financial year, with the recession taking full
effect from around September 2008,
business travel and other indicators of
economic growth began to suffer. Recent
figures released by many of the flag-carrier
airlines and by the International
Association of Travel Agencies have shown
a noticeable move away from premium
cabins. There are similar trends in other
areas of business travel, where clients are
choosing budget hotels and same-day rail
travel to reduce their costs.
However, while the short-term trends are
down, the long-term picture continues to
remain very positive. The latest figures from
the World Travel & Tourism Council show
business travel volume for 2009 at $524
billion and predict growth of around 4%
per annum for the coming decade.
Our strategy
We are building a sustainable business to
deliver value to all stakeholders, including
clients, suppliers, investors and employees,
and our goal is to become the world’s
leading international corporate travel
services company. Our strategy is founded
on the following principles:
• Our core activity is managing travel and
related expenditure for companies who
gain value from such management. They
tend to be either large national or
multinational companies.
• We are client-focussed and see our
clients as partners with mutual interests.
• We are a knowledge-based business and
value people as a major asset.
• We encourage long-term partnerships
with suppliers who recognise our value
to their distribution channels.
• We consistently deliver innovative ideas,
excellent service and value through
motivated and empowered people.
• We use our independent technology to
improve internal efficiency and to
provide our clients with an efficient and
cost effective service.
• We will own or control our operations in
countries where the majority of clients
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
14 HRG Annual Report 2009 initiate and manage their expenditure
consolidation programme; elsewhere we
will form strong partnerships.
• We will seek to manage our business with
low capital intensity and strong cash flow.
Our performance
Overview
HRG delivered a solid performance for the
year under very challenging conditions. On
a reported basis, our revenue rose by 5.7%
to £351m and operating profit was down
by £10.7m to £25.3m. These figures reflect
a net exceptional charge of £5.6m primarily
for restructuring costs partially offset by the
release of accruals relating to acquisitions
made some years ago. Another year of
effective cash management delivered
a significant reduction of £25.1m in our
year-end net debt to £85.3m.
After adjusting for favourable movements
in exchange rates, revenue was down by
3.7%. Underlying operating profit, which is
before amortisation of acquired intangibles
and exceptional items, was down by £3.3m
to £34.6m to produce a margin that was
down from 11.4% to 9.8%.
In many respects, it was a year of two
halves. Our first half performance was
strong and we grew both revenue and
operating profit; the second half was very
different, as the full effect of the recession
took hold and companies everywhere
began to cut back spending. Importantly,
with the majority of our revenue from
client management and advisory fees,
these changes were not as damaging as
many might have thought and our second
half revenue was down by only 8.5% at
constant exchange rates. We reduced our
staffing levels during the latter part of the
year once the pattern of client activity
became clear and, with some further
reductions since year end, our cost base is
now significantly below the March 2008
level and, we believe, appropriate for the
foreseeable future. The cost of these
changes was £6.9m, which has been taken
as an exceptional charge. With these cost
reduction actions now largely complete,
we should be able to maintain profitability
without damaging our ability to react
when market conditions improve.
As a result of these cost reduction actions
we have said goodbye to a number of
colleagues over the last year, many with
long service. I thank them for all they
have given to the Group and wish them
well for the future. It is always difficult to
see colleagues leave and I would like to
thank all of our staff for their hard work
and commitment.
I am pleased to report that we have
maintained our client retention rate above
90% and again won more new business
than we lost. We are being invited to
tender by an increasing number of
prospective new clients and are hopeful
that our past success rate will continue.
All of this has helped keep our business
model robust. Our clear focus on the
individual needs of our clients sets us apart
in the travel management sector and
provides a formula for continuing
profitability and cash flow.
Outlook
We do not expect much change to the
current market conditions during 2009 and
have adjusted our cost base to reflect that
expectation. Trading for April was heavily
influenced by the Easter holidays and
provided no reliable indication of any
change to the short-term outlook. Our
strategy is unchanged and we remain in
good shape to take advantage of the
economic recovery when it takes place.
Client activity
This was another successful year for client
retention and new business.
New clients that we welcomed during
the year included Astellas Pharma, British
Sky Broadcasting, De La Rue, DIRECT TV,
Lenovo, Nationwide Building Society
and Wachovia.
Elsewhere, we have secured new contracts
with substantial new volumes from
existing clients such as BNP Paribas, Kemira,
News Corporation and Smiths Group.
Noteworthy contract renewals included
Axel Springer, Barclays, Condé Nast,
Deutsche Bank, Hennes & Mauritz,
HSBC, Motorola, Prudential,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Royal Bank of
Canada, Sony and Syngenta.
Our drive for more non-cyclical clients
secured a place on the new one-stop
travel management company category
with the UK Government’s Office of
Government Commerce.
Our continued focus on managing the
total cost of trip has resulted in increased
volume of hotel and ground
transportation, including rail, from our
existing clients as they recognise the
value of consolidating all elements of
their travel expenditure with HRG.
Events and meetings management is one
of several services that we provide and we
have now aligned this more closely with
our core managed travel services to existing
clients. This has enabled us to protect
volumes in a competitive market place.
The macroeconomic downturn has created
opportunities for us, as clients become
even more receptive to programme
changes that can reduce their travel costs.
Our expertise in this area helps us to retain
clients and also generate additional fees.
Developments in the marketplace generally,
such as changed supplier inventory
distribution, will provide the opportunity
to lead clients through the complexities of
modern day travel and to provide them
with a wide range of solutions instantly.
Our sales pipeline remains healthy and
we believe that our recent successes, both
in retaining clients and securing new
revenue, will continue into the current
financial year.
Regional review
Europe
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £260.3m £247.8m +5.0%
Operating profit £24.9m £36.2m -£11.3m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£31.9m £34.9m -£3.0m
Underlying
margin
(1)
12.3% 14.1% -1.8%
(1)
before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
HRG Annual Report 2009 15
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures 16 HRG Annual Report 2009
The revenue increase of 5.0% includes
an 8.9% benefit from foreign exchange;
underlying operating profit fell by £3.0m
and includes a £1.6m benefit from
foreign exchange.
Our UK business performed relatively well
during the year helped by diligent cost
control and improved productivity from
such things as advanced service
configuration techniques, including
telephony call-flow switching and
increasing ‘virtual’ home working capability.
Over 100 of HRG’s UK-based travel
consultants now work from home and we
expect this number to rapidly grow further.
Our UK Government contract with the
Ministry of Defence and Foreign &
Commonwealth Office was implemented
in full during the year and is now well
established; we are now seeing a significant
increase in hotel volumes in particular as
we expand our work for this client.
Our German business also delivered
a good performance during the year,
helped by contributions from the Euro
2008 Championships in neighbouring
Switzerland and Austria, and the
successful progress of German Bundesliga
teams such as FC Bayern Munich and
Hamburg FC in the UEFA Champions
League and UEFA Cup respectively.
As part of our European restructuring, we
continued to consolidate our branch
network across the region. In the UK we
have focused our operations into core ‘hub’
locations in London, Glasgow and Belfast,
and established ‘specialist’ operating
centres in Manchester (rail), Leicester (hotel
reservations) and Farnborough (24/7
support). In Italy, we consolidated into core
hub locations in Milan, Rome and Matera,
the latter as a low-cost centre in the south
of the country which is partly subsidised
by the Italian Government. In the Nordic
region we will focus on core hub locations
in Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Stockholm,
Malmo and Gothenburg.
North America
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £71.3m £65.3m +9.2%
Operating loss (£0.7m) (£1.3m) +£0.6m
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£1.3m £1.6m -£0.3m
Underlying
margin
(1)
1.8% 2.5% -0.7%
(1)
before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
The revenue increase of 9.2% includes a
12.3% benefit from foreign exchange;
underlying operating profit fell by £0.3m,
with little benefit from foreign exchange.
After last year’s investment in infrastructure
and management, it was disappointing to
see volumes fall in the second half of the
year. However, we believe this performance
to be better than the industry overall.
The region tends to favour transaction fees
and, although we acted to reduce our cost
base, the actions proved not to be quick
enough. This has now been rectified and
we expect to see significant benefits from
these cost reduction actions in the
current year.
It was a good year for new business, with
client wins exceeding losses, and this
should help provide a solid foundation for
recovery in the future. There were also
numerous successful client renewals and
contract extensions, including CBC/Radio-
Canada, Deutsche Bank (USA) and Royal
Bank of Canada. Deutsche Bank also added
three consulting projects.
Our chartering business for sports teams
progressed well and now represents
almost two thirds of the National
Basketball Association.
Looking ahead, we anticipate some
positive developments from further
enhancement of our consulting services
and the roll-out of our proprietary
technology products such as HRG
TripPass™, a trip authorisation tool that
manages client pre-trip approvals.
Asia Pacific
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Change
Revenue £19.7m £19.1m +3.1%
Operating profit £1.1m £1.1m –
Underlying
operating profit
(1)
£1.4m £1.4m –
Underlying
margin
(1)
7.1% 7.3% -0.2%
(1)
before amortisation of acquired intangibles and
exceptional items
Following a strong first half, volume
reduced sharply during the second half.
For the full year, the revenue increase of
3.1% includes a 7.3% gain from foreign
exchange. An improved contribution from
Spendvision in this region, together with
cost reduction actions, delivered
underlying operating profit that was
unchanged at £1.4m. Note that operating
profit includes the results from subsidiaries
in Australia and Singapore, but excludes
the results from joint ventures in Hong
Kong and mainland China.
Our largest market in this region, Australia,
suffered most from the lower volumes.
On the positive side, our contract with
the Queensland Government to provide
a fully integrated travel and expense
management system has now been
implemented following an extensive pilot
phase. This system enables the client to
handle the process from travel authorisation
to expense reclaim through a single
application environment. Using our HRG
Universal Super Platform™ (USP) this
modular delivery will give clients the choice
of individual or a full suite of products.
Singapore performed relatively well by
reducing costs as volumes declined. We
have recently implemented a significant
win in this market and this should provide
a good start to the new financial year.
It was a similar story of swift cost reduction
action in Hong Kong and mainland China,
where both joint ventures were able to
react quickly to the second half volume
declines in order to maintain performance. HRG Annual Report 2009 17
Spendvision
HRG’s Spendvision expense management
business provides expense management
solutions via the internet. Its technology
automates the way employees process
their expense claims and gives a company
better control and visibility of its indirect
expenses. Spendvision operates in many
countries; its appeal is broad and many of
its clients are not HRG corporate travel
clients. It remains an exciting long-term
opportunity for the Group.
The Spendvision results are included in the
regional results above. This was another
year of rapid growth, with revenue
increasing by 61% and the addition of
£1.9m to underlying operating profit.
The increase in revenue was driven by
existing and new customers, with growth
from partners using the Spendvision
platform with their own branding and
growth in the Spendvision.com expense
management product.
Technology
Technology remains a critical success
factor in our business, even more so during
tough economic times when our clients
place more demands on us than usual for
finding more innovative ways to reduce
their travel costs. Our decision, made
some years ago, to develop and own our
technology has proved to be the right one
since it gives us the necessary flexibility to
ensure that our focus remains on serving
the individual needs of our clients. It has
also afforded HRG a unique advantage
over peers that are dependent on using
third-party technology solutions.
The development and deployment of our
own technology continued during the
year. Central to our progress in this area is
our technology business platform (USP)
which addresses, among other things,
the problem of increasing fragmentation
of supply and enables HRG to provide a
common base from which to link front-end
booking applications to suppliers and
their services. We are now steadily linking
inventory to end-user clients and HRG
travel consultants via USP through a staged
roll-out of product applications.
More technology products continue to be
linked to the USP . During the year we
deployed our new i-Suite product and HRG
Online, our new online booking tool, with
great success. The HRG Point of Sale
(Agency Desktop) application continues to
evolve with pilots undertaken in the USA
and the UK in two separate suppliers, and
our new reporting suite is currently under
test prior to deployment. We also installed
a full version of the application into one of
our major partners, and have appeared in
several Microsoft promotional activities
including a video on why and how we
implemented our Structured Orientated
Architecture strategy.
During the year, we renegotiated a number
of core IT infrastructure contracts and
undertook process efficiency reviews
across the business. In the latter part of last
year we started the call for technology
integration standards in the industry by
bringing together key suppliers. The
fragmentation of information, and to some
extent inventory content, is creating a
breakdown in what has historically been
a seamless environment. Our suppliers
recognise that we need to work
proactively together to ensure our
mutual clients realise the benefits of
one simple-to-use solution.
Awards
We remain dedicated to our clients and are
proud that our high standards of client
service continue to win recognition in our
industry. In the past year, major industry
awards have included:
• Best Corporate Team 2008/9 (Institute
of Travel Management)
• Accommodation Innovation Award –
UK Hotel Service (Business Travel Show
Innovation Awards 2009)
• Technology Innovation Award –
HRG Universal Super Platform™
(Business Travel Show Innovation
Awards 2009)
• Best THALYS Distributor, 2008 to HRG
Belgium (SNCB Phileas Awards)
• Best Account Management Team to
HRG UK (Jet Airways)
• Best Business Travel Management
Company, Diamond to HRG UK (Buying
Business Travel Diamond Awards)
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
28 May 2009
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
