 Q&A WITH DAVID RADCLIFFE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
18 HRG Annual Report 2009
David Radcliffe
Chief Executive
Q: It’s been a tough year.
How do you feel about
HRG’s results?
A: These are extraordinary times that we are
experiencing. The near collapse of financial
markets around the world has led to a
global recession and this in turn has resulted
in very demanding market conditions in the
travel industry and elsewhere. Historically,
business travel has proved pretty resilient in
times of economic uncertainty. Our results
this year bear testament to this resilience
with underlying revenue down by only 3.7%
and operating profit margin down from
11.4% to 9.8%. Given the challenging
conditions this is a solid and satisfactory
performance.
Q: Which sectors are
performing well for you?
A: We have a very broad and diversified
portfolio of clients and this is one of the
factors that has provided relative
robustness to our revenue. The enormous
changes that we have witnessed in the
Banking and Financial Services sectors
resulted in fewer travel bookings and
changes in travel patterns for many of
our clients in these sectors. However even
within these sectors the trend is not
universal and we have seen increased
traffic on certain routes.
Elsewhere, travel activity in many other
sectors, for example Pharmaceuticals
& Healthcare and Energy has either
continued largely unchanged or even
increased. A key thing to remember is
that in times like these our role is to help
our clients reduce their expenditure.
Q: Many companies are seeking to
cut their overall travel expenditure
by switching staff from first and
business to economy class travel.
Is that damaging your business?
A: Approximately 85% of HRG’s total
revenue comes from what we term
‘managed clients’ , so the majority of our
business is about helping our corporate
clients manage their travel and related
expenditure more efficiently. In the current
macroeconomic climate, the focus for
most of our clients is on reducing their
overall travel spend.
There are a number of ways that we are
able to help our clients cut their travel
costs including providing advice on
changes to their travel policies, helping
them negotiate better deals with suppliers,
switching them to cheaper suppliers, for
example away from full service carriers
to budget airlines, managing video-
conferencing facilities and the introduction
of HRG’s travel-booking technology, for
example our self-booking tools.
An important thing to note is that in
almost all cases clients pay us for the work
that we do for them. We are rarely paid
on commissions for selling tickets – those
days are long past. There is therefore little
effect on HRG from booking a client into
an economy class seat rather than one in
first or business class.
Q: But haven’t some of your
clients simply stopped travelling
in the current crisis?
A: As the global economic downturn
accelerated during the second half of our
financial year, a few of our clients did
impose travel bans in order to cut their
travel costs. However, this proved in almost
all cases to be a temporary measure.
For most of our managed clients, travel is
a necessary element of their ability to
function properly as a business.
For the most part, our managed clients are
still travelling and their increased focus on
reducing travel costs continues to offer us
opportunities to provide them with
innovative solutions to suit their needs.
We are working hard to help our clients
reduce their travel and related expenditure
whilst benefiting from the provision of
additional travel-related activities and
services that contribute to our bottom line.
Q: The global banking industry
is in a state of turmoil and there
has been much publicity around
closures and staff redundancies.
Given the importance of banking
clients to HRG, isn’t this having a
crushing effect on your business?
A: Clearly HRG is not immune to the
effects of closures and staff redundancies
amongst its corporate clients. With fewer
of a client’s staff travelling, the overall travel
management needs are correspondingly
reduced. Put simply, it becomes a smaller
client to HRG. In such cases, we will make
a corresponding reduction in the cost
which is associated with such a client.
In this way, we are able to maintain our
overall profit margin.
It is worth noting that HRG is a global
business. Our client base is very diverse,
which reduces the potential impact on
the Group from weaknesses in any single
client or sector. Our top ten clients
account for only 22% of our total revenue
and, although Banking is our most
important sector, their employee travel
traditionally accounts for less than 20%
of our total revenue. Many of our client
relationships are long-standing and have
multi-year contracts.
Q: What product/service
innovations are you offering
your clients to help them cope
with the prevailing economic
and market conditions?
A: We have seen a new and determined
focus by many of our clients as they
seek to reduce their travel and related
expenditure. Many clients are now far
more receptive to ideas put to them by
HRG than in the past, particularly where
these will result in a reduction in their
travel spend. Clients are also more
receptive in the current climate to HRG’s HRG Annual Report 2009 19
technology solutions in order that they
are able to gain greater booking
efficiencies and faster access to data. Our
decision to own and develop our own
technology solutions has proved to be
the right one as it gives us flexibility to
meet our and our clients’ needs for low
cost, highly efficient access to supplier
inventory, data and information.
In recent months, we unveiled
enhancements in three flagship
technology products: HRG Online™, our
proprietary self service reservation tool that
allows users to make air, hotel, parking and
rail bookings, HRG Reporting™, a global
tool that provides corporate travel buyers
with customised data to ensure that their
travel programme delivers maximum value,
and HRG Travel Watch™, our intelligent
web-enabled reporting tool that enables
clients to locate their travellers anywhere
in the world at anytime and monitor
compliance to corporate policy.
Q: When do you expect
the market to recover?
A: We expect macroeconomic
conditions to remain challenging for the
foreseeable future. Therefore the decline
in premium travel is likely to continue.
Like most people in our industry, we do
not expect to see market conditions
improve during 2009.
Q: Are you comfortable
with the level of debt on your
balance sheet?
A: In an ideal world we would of course
prefer to have a lower level of debt, but
it is a legacy of HRG’s exit from private
ownership, so we are where we are.
Our principal banking facility was
negotiated at attractive rates well before
the current global financial crisis emerged
and is committed until September 2011.
The covenants are set at very conventional
levels and we believe that we have
adequate headroom.
Nevertheless, the Board considers debt
reduction to be a priority in the present
climate.
Q: When do you envisage
being able to resume paying
a dividend?
First, we have not stopped paying
dividends but we have reduced them for
this year. We paid an interim dividend
of 1.2p per share for the year ended
31 March 2009.
We are not paying a final dividend but
remain committed to a progressive
dividend policy and expect to increase
dividends from the re-based level of 1.2p
per share as soon as it is prudent to do so.
Q: Are you happy with your
investment in Spendvision?
Is it working well?
A: Operationally, we are very pleased
with its performance although its
contribution to HRG’s overall result is still
quite small. However, it continues to
grow steadily. We are working hard to
integrate its online expense management
services more effectively with our
managed travel clients.
Q: Is online travel booking
a threat to HRG?
A: At HRG, we treat online booking as
simply another method of distribution;
we incorporate it into the managed travel
service that we provide to our clients. This
means that the client is presented with all
of the appropriate information to enable
travel bookings to be made that meet the
traveller’s specific needs whilst remaining
within their travel policy. We work with a
number of online self-service reservations
systems, including our own, and have a
number of clients who are at over 50%
usage. This, in turn, helps us to save further
costs for the client and utilise our own staff
more efficiently.
Q: What is your long-term
outlook for HRG?
A: HRG has changed dramatically in recent
years in terms of the extent and quality of
our service offering, and the scale and
reach of our business. At the same time,
the size of the global corporate travel
market has expanded enormously in line
with general outsourcing trends.
Our primary focus is on delivering
exemplary service to our clients. HRG is the
only independent pure-play international
travel management company and one of
only three experienced global ones. Over
200 of our clients use us for their travel in
more than one country, and this figure is
growing. I am encouraged by the trend to
consolidate travel and related expenditure.
HRG has a unique set of self-developed
technology tools that are changing the
face of corporate travel management,
enabling real-time connectivity between
the client, suppliers and global
distribution systems.
So, all things considered, I believe HRG
is very well placed for the medium and
long term.
Overview How we operate Our responsibilities The facts and figures
