 HRG Annual Report 2010 3
In extremely challenging
business conditions,
Hogg Robinson Group has
delivered another year of
good performance.
The extraordinary financial crisis of the last
18 months and some tough winter
operating conditions in the Northern
Hemisphere required a demonstration of
the resilience we have assured
shareholders, clients and staff that the
Company is capable of. 
In extremely challenging business
conditions, Hogg Robinson Group has
delivered another year of good
performance. This has been achieved, not
from growing revenues, although we
continue to win new clients, but from
effective management of the cost base.
In practice this has meant taking tough
decisions about the organisational structure
and the number of people who work in it.
I would like to pay tribute to the Executive
team and staff who have made the
sacrifices necessary to preserve profitability
while still delivering the quality of service
to our clients that they expect. 
Results are in line with market
expectations and underlying profit before
tax is well above last year. Taking into
account the exceptional charge
associated with adjusting the business
cost base, earnings are more than
sufficient to support our recommendation
of a final dividend of 0.8p per share.
Together with the interim dividend of
0.4p per share, this maintains the
payment to shareholders at the same
level as last year. We remain committed to
a progressive dividend policy and expect
to increase dividends as soon as it is
prudent to do so. 
Cash generation and debt levels continue
to be a key area of focus for us and whilst,
as a result of management action, period
end net debt is at an acceptable level,
average debt through the year is
somewhat higher. We are looking at ways
to improve this. Meanwhile our existing
bank facilities will continue to provide
adequate funding until they expire in
September 2011. Preparation is already
underway for the renegotiation of these
facilities, which is likely to result in an
increase in the cost of funds. 
Shareholders will be aware that, in
common with most companies, the deficit
on the Group’s defined benefit pension
schemes has risen substantially this year.
It reflects principally the latest investment
values and interest rates at 31 March 2010
together with actuarial assumptions about
longevity and inflation over the life of the
schemes. The deficit is inherently volatile.
No new members have been admitted to
the UK scheme since 2003 and we monitor
the situation carefully having regard to the
interests of the shareholders and members
of the schemes. 
Our Chief Executive, David Radcliffe, will
deal with the detail of the business
performance during the year in his
Statement with further analysis in the
Operational Review and Consolidated
Financial Statements. Suffice it to say,
without the decisive action taken by him
and his colleagues responding to ever
changing markets, this year’s results would
not have been as good as they are. 
For the future you can be assured your
company will continue to respond to
market conditions and will place client
satisfaction at the top of its agenda.
Combined with a keen attention paid to
costs and margins, this should provide
the best possible result for you, the
shareholders and the other stakeholders
in the business, especially our employees.
The economic and business situation has
been improving, albeit at different rates in
different markets and our business clients
are travelling more. This remains a highly
competitive service sector but with our
best-in-class technology and highly
committed staff, Hogg Robinson Group is
in very good shape to take advantage of
improving economic conditions. 
My final words are to thank those who
have left in the past year. Thank you for
your service and best wishes for the future.
To my Board, Executive and other
colleagues, thank you for all your hard
work, dedication often under great
pressure, and commitment to excellence
that typifies this company. 
John Coombe
Chairman
26 May 2010
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Reported earnings per share (p)
Dividend per share (p)
2008 5.5
2009 2.4
2010 4.4
2008 4.0
2009 1.2
2010 1.2
HRG Annual Report 2010 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
