 HRG Annual Report 2010 3
In the face of many
challenges, it has been an
excellent year which we
should all celebrate.
I am very pleased to be able to report on
a year of significant financial progress for
your Company. Revenues are up and
profits are well ahead of last year and as
a result we are very confident in
recommending an increase in the
dividend for the year of 25%.
The global economy is slowly recovering
from the financial crisis of the last few years
and HRG’s services are increasingly in
demand. Last year’s restructuring within the
Group and its impact on the cost base has
further underpinned our results and we look
forward now to another year of improved
performance. Our challenge is to continue
to provide the very best service to our
clients whilst managing effectively the cost
of that service. Success on these two fronts
will deliver a growing business with good
financial results and will give us the ability to
reward both staff and shareholders in a way
that reflects the success that comes from
delivering client satisfaction.
Our strategy remains to strengthen our
position as one of the world’s leading
service providers working within the
corporate travel market and maintain a
sustainable business which delivers value to
all stakeholders. Like all businesses we face
some risks in delivering this strategy, not
least coping with any effects of increasing
fuel prices on business travel activity and
any possible effects on the global economy
of recent natural disasters and political
upheaval. We have a strong track record of
coping well with short-term disruptions,
especially during the last two years, and
therefore retain a positive outlook for
business performance in the longer term.
A more detailed review of the business 
can be found on pages 4 to 18, which 
includes the report given by Chief Executive
David Radcliffe, but I would like to draw
shareholders’ attention to the growth in
underlying earnings per share this year
of 16% to 7.3p. This has encouraged the
Board to propose a final distribution to
shareholders of 1.0p which, together with
the interim of 0.5p represents a payout ratio
of 21% of underlying earnings per share. 
I said in my report last year that we aspired
to a progressive dividend policy and 
this year we started to deliver it. We aim to
continue to do so with the rate of increase 
in dividend being dependent on the
increase in earnings and cash flow.
Our principal borrowing facilities were
successfully renegotiated in November
2010 for a further four years at competitive
rates. However, following the financial
crisis, lenders have sought to increase their
margins and we have been no exception
to this trend. As a result, cash generation
and debt levels continue to be a key area
of focus for us. Year-end net debt again
reflects the benefit of management actions
but shareholders should be aware that
average net debt levels through last year
were again somewhat higher than
at the year end.
Last year I drew shareholders’ attention to
the volatility in the Group’s pension deficit.
This year the deficit has fallen by 9% to
£115m as a result of improved asset values
and contributions in the year partially
offset by changes in actuarial assumptions
about inflation rates. The UK scheme has
been closed to new members since 2003
and we continue to monitor the situation
carefully having regard to the interests of
shareholders and past and present
members of the scheme.
Corporate governance is as important to
smaller companies as it is to large ones.
At Hogg Robinson Group, we aim to
optimise the benefits of good governance
whilst carefully managing the cost of
delivering it. Your Board has complied in
full with the spirit of the UK Corporate
Governance Code and will continue to do
so. In this regard we plan to have an
externally facilitated review of the Board in
the coming year and I will report in due
course on the results of that review.
Sadly, George Battersby, one of our non-
executive Board colleagues, passed away
last year. He was a director from the time
of the IPO in 2006 and provided valuable
insight and challenge as the Company
developed in the spotlight of the public
market. George was a valued colleague
who gave great service to the Company
and was a good friend to all of us. He will
be sorely missed.
We have a new non-executive director,
Paul Williams, who joined the board on
1 April 2011. Paul has held senior executive
positions in a number of blue-chip FTSE
100 companies in his career and we look
forward to working with him.
I am also pleased to welcome Kevin Ruffles
to the Board as Chief Operating Officer.
Kevin has worked for HRG for 38 years in a
number of roles and we will continue to
benefit from his extensive experience.
My final words as always are to thank all
those who have contributed to the
Company’s success this year. In the face of
many challenges, it has been an excellent
year which we should all celebrate. To my
Board, executive and staff colleagues,
thank you for all the hard work. I hope
you agree it has been worth it and I look
forward with you to another year of
commitment and delivery as we build
the value of the Company. 
John Coombe
Chairman
25 May 2011
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
HRG Annual Report 2011 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Dividend per share (p)
Underlying dividend cover (times)
Reported dividend cover (times)
2008 4.0
2009 1.2
2010 1.2
2011 1.5
2008 1.4
2009 3.9
2010 5.3
2011 4.9
2008 1.4
2009 2.0
2010 3.7
2011 4.2
