 OVERVIEW
Chairman’s statement
HRG has once again
produced good results and
continues to anticipate a
positive and resilient future.
 This has been another year of good
performance by the Group, with revenues
increasing and profits showing material
growth over last year’s results. In its turn
this enables the funding of another
significant increase in the dividend, in line
with our progressive dividend policy.
We and our clients operated in the last year
in a world of divergent regional economic
performance. The European economy
benefitted from growth in Germany but
otherwise did poorly in a year that was
dominated by the eurozone crisis and
political indecision over the best way to
resolve it. Within Europe the UK economy
was broadly unchanged for the year as a
whole but questions remain about the
fragility of the economy. North American
economies grew in 2011 but not quite as
well as in 2010 while certain countries in
South America and much of Asia delivered
very good growth in GDP . With these
different challenges and opportunities as
the backdrop, HRG has once again
produced good results and continues to
anticipate a positive and resilient future.
Our strategy is to provide a range of
services to our clients in the corporate
travel and related expense area. We do this
through a mixture of internet and direct
service offerings allowing clients to choose
from a range of service levels with
consequent pricing options. We are
expanding accessibility and range, and
have recently increased ownership of our
subsidiary, Spendvision, to one hundred
per cent. This will enable us to introduce
Spendvision’s capabilities in online expense
management to the corporate travel
market, whilst also continuing to develop
its capabilities in the existing markets that
it serves. Like all businesses we face risks in
delivering our strategy including higher oil
prices and their impact on travel costs.
We have to be at the forefront of
technological change as the internet and
mobile technology constantly increase
the ways to interact with clients. Natural
disasters can impact our business,
interestingly, positively as well as negatively
and finally, travel costs are affected by
Government increasing fuel duty and
taxation of air travel. Notwithstanding
these risks, we see a good and expanding
future for the business in the long term.
Chief Executive David Radcliffe reports in
more detail on performance in the year
and the outlook. I would just like to draw
shareholders’ attention to the increase in
underlying earnings per share of 14%. Your
Board remains mindful of its commitment
to maintain a progressive dividend policy
while being cognisant of the capital needs
of the business and its cash flow.
Nevertheless we think it appropriate to
reward shareholders with an increase in
the total dividend of 33% ahead of last
year’s 25% increase.
Borrowings have been held flat this year
with the £10.4m cash outflow in
connection with the Spendvision purchase
being fully funded by the cash flow
generated from operations. Year-end net
debt again reflects management action to
hold it below the average borrowing level
for the year but we no longer see the need
for this active working capital programme
to continue in the future. After allowing for
its cessation, we expect the business to
again generate positive free cash flow in
the coming year.
The pension deficit remains a substantial
amount for a company of our size. The UK
pension scheme has been closed to new
members since 2003 and during the year
we have taken action to reduce the
volatility of the deficit by offering
enhanced transfer values to members who
withdraw from the scheme. Nevertheless,
for so long as interest rates remain at such
low levels, it is difficult to see the net
pension liabilities reducing significantly.
Your Board has complied with the
requirements of the UK Corporate
Governance Code and, as envisaged last
year, we undertook a review of Board
effectiveness by external consultants in the
last year. The review concluded that our
procedures are appropriate but, as always,
there are some things we can do better.
We have established a programme to
follow up these points and will do so
through the coming year.
We have benefitted from the additional
input of the two directors who were
appointed last year and we were recently
pleased to announce the appointment of
our new Group Finance Director, Philip
Harrison, who will join the Company on
11th June. We are looking forward to
working with him. Philip has been
appointed to fill the role that will be left
when Julian Steadman retires at the AGM
on 25th July after four and a half years’
service. In that time, the Company has
produced consistently better results and
achieved an improved financial position
and I would like to thank Julian for his
important contribution. We wish him well
with his future plans.
Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to
all those who have contributed to the
Company’s success this year. The growth
has continued and that is due to the efforts
of the executive and staff colleagues who
have always put the client first, and of
course to my colleagues on the Board. 
John Coombe
Chairman
23 May 2012
HRG Annual Report 2012 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Dividend per share (p)
2008 4.0
2009 1.2
2010 1.2
2011 1.5
2012 2.0
Underlying dividend cover (times)
2008 1.4
2009 3.9
2010 5.3
2011 4.9
2012 4.2
Underlying earnings per share (p)
2008 5.4
2009 4.7
2010 6.3
2011 7.3
2012 8.3
