 Chief Executive’s statement
HRG delivered a resilient
performance under testing
conditions. We have
remained focused on
maintaining a cost base that
is appropriate to the market
backdrop while ensuring
that our usual high standard
of client service is not
compromised. Our focus
continues to be on
delivering good value to our
clients through excellent
service which meets their
specific requirements. 
OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY
HRG delivered another resilient
performance given the ongoing
unpredictable nature of the principal
markets in which the Group operates.
For the year ended 31 March 2013,
our revenue fell by 8% to £343m while
underlying operating profit margin rose
from 12.6% to 14.2%. Reported profit
before tax and EPS were up 1% and 4%,
respectively. Client travel activity fell by 5%
and travel spend by 8% during the period.
In response to the market slowdown and
predicted continuation of the trend by
clients to use our online booking tools,
we reduced our staffing levels and other
operating costs during the year and
introduced a number of self-help measures
designed to further reduce our costs and
protect margin as we go forward.
As we have often seen in previous
periods of austerity, clients rely on our
depth of experience and expertise to
devise innovative and effective travel
and expense management solutions
to help them meet their objectives.
More often, we see opportunities to
deploy HRG’s technology products and
solutions to great effect as part of a
series of actions designed to meet the
particular needs of each of our clients.
Online self-booking tools, including
HRG Online™, are now used by many of
our clients as an effective way of making
good use of available technology to
help them reduce the cost of making
travel bookings, particularly on simpler
itineraries. Client adoption of online
self booking of travel continues to rise.
As clients move from ‘classic’ , telephone-
based service to technology-based
service, our revenue is likely to be
affected and we need to ensure related
operating costs remain appropriate
for the new service configuration.
HRG is a leading player in a constantly
changing industry. Our focus
continues to be on delivering good
value to our clients through excellent
service which meets their unique
requirements. As the breadth of the
Group’s services has broadened in
recent years to include travel, expense
and data management underpinned by
proprietary technology, HRG’s strategy
has evolved also. Our current strategy
has two core elements:
– Managed travel – To grow our managed
travel business by increasing our business
from existing clients with new service
offerings, entering new markets and
winning new business by leveraging our
technology and service delivery.
– Software as a Service (SaaS) –
To develop a SaaS business focused on
providing travel, expense and payment
solutions to existing and new clients,
either direct or through third party
travel and payment providers.
We believe that this strategy, which now
includes the provision of technology
solutions not only to our existing clients
but also to the wider travel and expense
industry, provides a sensible balance of
resilience and growth. The ability to combine
excellent managed travel services with best-
in-class technology solutions also supports
our reputation as one of the world’s
leading international corporate services
companies, helping us sustain a business
which delivers value to all stakeholders in
the toughest of trading climates.
The global business travel market is expected
to grow at a rate of 4% per annum during
the period to 2022, according to the World
Travel and Tourism Council, with Europe and
North America predicted to grow at 2% and
3% per annum, respectively. We estimate
that the expense management market will
grow by 6% per annum in the same period.
Our medium-term objectives are to grow
revenue by 2-4% per annum, maintain
underlying operating profit margin in the
range 13-14.5%, reduce net debt to 0.7-1.0
times EBITDA, and to continue with our
progressive dividend policy. In growing our
managed travel business over the next
few years, our strategic priorities include
increasing revenue from existing clients
through new service offerings in areas such
as meetings, groups and events, data
analytics, consulting and card payments;
entering new markets such as logistics
serving the marine, offshore and energy
sectors; and winning new business by
leveraging our technology and service
delivery, for example in the Government
sector and through the launch of new end-
to-end travel and expense management
products. We aim to develop our SaaS
business both direct to corporates and
national organisations, and indirectly via
third-party travel and payment providers
such as global distribution system (GDS)
providers and financial services organisations.
During the first half of the year, we signed
an agreement to license some of our
travel technology to a leading GDS
provider, reinforcing the Group’s B2B
technology strategy. Our earnings in the
period benefited from this agreement and
we will see further contribution through
the life of the agreement. In the second half,
we entered into a preferred relationship
with Citi Commercial Cards, a leading
commercial card provider to large and
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
HRG Annual Report 2013 5
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
