 OVERVIEW
Chairman’s statement
This last year clients have
again relied on our
knowledge and experience
to find innovative solutions
to help them meet their
specific objectives.
Hogg Robinson Group’s results for 2012/13
are testament to the resilience of our
business model and our ability to manage
our cost base tightly. In markets that
remain difficult to predict, clients continue
to look to Hogg Robinson Group for
support in helping them to achieve best
value from their travel and related
expenditure and to reduce overall spend,
and this is again reflected in our new
business wins and renewals. Based on
our performance for the year, we propose
an increase in the total dividend per share
of 5%, maintaining our commitment to a
progressive dividend policy.
The results will be reported in more detail
by Chief Executive David Radcliffe and all I
seek to do here is summarise the macro
conditions in which we and our clients
operated in 2012/13. Economic growth
was nonexistent or even slightly negative
in the UK and the rest of Europe. In North
America GDP growth was around 2% while
in Asia Pacific and the rest of the world,
higher levels of growth could be found but
a number of economies were affected by
slowing growth in China. A significant
proportion of our revenue and profits is
generated in the UK and Europe and given
the global economic backdrop described
above, we are pleased with what our
business has achieved.
This last year clients have again relied on
our knowledge and experience to find
innovative solutions to help them meet their
specific objectives. A common aim for most
has been cost reduction and, as a result of
our advice, we have seen a continuation of
the trend by clients to use our internet
booking tools to supplement and, on
occasion, replace our more traditional direct
travel management service. As this dynamic
occurs, we adjust our cost structure to reflect
the new business preferences and work with
clients to ensure they have the type of
service to suit their needs. In this way we
have been able to maintain profitability, and
expect to do so going forward. Our service
offering has been enhanced by the inclusion
of expense management systems
developed by our subsidiary, Spendvision.
We were delighted when our combined
capability proved to be critical in winning
the Government of Canada as a new client.
This win was also underpinned by the
excellence of our technology and in future
years we hope to further capitalise on the
investment we have made and continue
to make in this area.
We review our risk management processes
elsewhere in the report including the
mitigating actions that can be taken should
events occur. In common with all
businesses, the effective identification and
management of risks across our operations,
including those around developing
technologies and cyber terrorism, are
integral to the delivery of the Group’s
strategic objectives. We are very aware of
these risks and are ready to respond in the
event it is necessary.
I referred in my report last year to our
intention to withdraw our active working
capital programme. As a result, and as
expected, year-end net debt rose,
increasing by £26m to £87m. A key focus
for management is to use the cash flow
generation capabilities of the business to
reduce this amount in the near to medium
term, at the same time as delivering our
progressive dividend policy.
The Group’s pension deficit increased
from last year’s level of £146m to £159m,
principally due to lower discount rates.
We have already taken a number of steps
to limit the Group’s exposure, including
closing the UK defined benefit scheme to
new entrants and putting salary caps in
place. We have now entered consultation
with the active members of our UK defined
benefit scheme on a proposal to close the
scheme to future accrual and replace it
with a defined contribution scheme. We
hope a conclusion can be reached on this
in the next few months. I am mindful of the
effect this will have on our colleagues but it
is in line with what many companies have
already done and it reflects the unfortunate
fact that defined benefit schemes have
become too expensive and too volatile in
their impact on companies’ finances to be
sustained in the private sector.
Since my last statement, Philip Harrison has
joined the company as Group Finance
Director and has rapidly become part of
our team. We have a small Board with
three executive and three non executive
directors as we believe this provides clear,
well informed and focused leadership,
appropriate to the size of the company.
However, many more than six people are
engaged in running the company and
providing the service to clients that is
essential to the success of this business.
To all those colleagues I would like to
express my thanks for their contribution
and the commitment they demonstrate
on a regular basis.
John Coombe
Chairman
22 May 2013
HRG Annual Report 2013 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Dividend per share (p)
2008 4.0
2009 1.2
2010 1.2
2011 1.5
2012 2.0
2013 2.1
Underlying dividend cover (times)
2008 1.4
2009 3.9
2010 5.3
2011 4.9
2012 4.2
2013 4.1
