 4
Holidaybreak plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2005
Key Messages
Businesses all enjoy good margins and 
strong cash generation
Group now growing in continental 
Europe 
Move to online continues
Focus on acquisitions that support 
growth and balance sheet efficiency
Holidaybreak’s results for 2005 
demonstrate both the flexibility and 
resilience of the Group in a rapidly 
changing market place. This is an 
encouraging performance in what 
has been an eventful year. I have 
been with Holidaybreak for three 
months now and I am pleased  
with what I have found. This is a 
great business with margins most 
other travel companies simply 
cannot match. The enthusiasm  
and dedication of the staff is 
impressive and my predecessor, 
Richard Atkinson, handed over a 
Group well placed to grow.
Hotel Breaks
Hotel Breaks is the largest division in the Group, 
selling 2.4m holidays in 2005 (2004: .7m).  
We provide domestic and overseas short-break 
holidays primarily for UK and Dutch consumers. 
Despite the London bombings in July, the 
division enjoyed a robust performance  
with operating profit* up 22% to £7.7m  
(2004: £4.5m). For the UK businesses, 
operating profit* increased by 3% to £4.9m 
(2004: £4.5m) on turnover that was flat at 
£20.9m. The results were dampened by the 
after effects of the London bombings in July.
Overall divisional operating margins* were up 
from 2.0% last year to 4.0% primarily as a 
result of the Bookit acquisition. Bookit records 
commissions receivable rather than total 
transaction value of sales. The division 
continues to be cash generative with limited 
capital expenditure and very high return on 
capital employed. In 2005, it generated £4.9m 
free cash flow** (2004: £6.9m).
The revenue mix of the UK business has shifted 
to reflect ongoing business development, with 
hotel breaks in Europe now at 3% of revenue, 
up from 7% in 2004. By contrast, the London 
hotel leisure market has been softer and is only 
slowly recovering on the back of destination 
marketing campaigns and a number of new 
theatre shows including Sinatra, Billy Elliot and 
Blue Man Group.
Bookit, the Dutch online hotel and self-catering 
reservations business, continues to make 
excellent progress. The business consists  
of three main brands. Weekendjeweg.nl,  
the core brand, offers hotel accommodation  
for two night weekend stays primarily in  
the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. 
Nachtjeweg.nl provides overnight 
accommodation while Bungalows.nl, a 
successful initiative in only its second year, 
offers self-catering accommodation in holiday 
parks. This year, Bookit launched a new brand 
Hotelletje.nl offering small family-run hotels. 
Bookit is the third largest tour operator in the 
Netherlands by number of customers.
As expected, Hotel Breaks’ overall sales intake 
for 2005/06 is currently about 4% down on 
same period in 2004/05, mainly reflecting 
weakness in London since July. However,  
the extremely flexible cost base of the  
Hotel Breaks Division (room allocations are  
on a non-committed basis) means management 
is confident that it will deliver a satisfactory 
financial performance in the current year. 
Adventure Travel 
The Adventure Travel Division consists of three 
businesses: Explore, Djoser and RegalDive.  
We sold 60,300 adventure holidays in 2005 
(2004: 4,000). 
Chief Executive’ s Review
Carl Michel
Chief Executive 5
Holidaybreak plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2005
European specialist holiday group
Sales by market (2005)
UK 76%
Ireland 2%
Benelux 16%
Germany, Switzerland, Austria 4%
Other 2%
Sales by market (2004)
UK 82%
Ireland 3%
Benelux 8%
Germany, Switzerland, Austria 5%
Other 2%
The division has had another impressive year. 
Turnover was up 67% to £62.6m (2004: 
£37.4m) and operating profit* increased by 63% 
to £5.m (2004: £3.2m). The operating margin* 
was 8.2% (2004: 8.4%) and £2.7m of free 
cash flow** was generated (2004: £2.8m). 
The acquisition of Djoser, the Dutch market 
leader in adventure travel, increased the size of 
the Adventure Travel Division by approximately 
60%. Djoser provides escorted tours for Dutch 
and Belgian consumers to 85 countries and is 
the largest adventure holiday operator in 
mainland Europe.
Explore is the UK market leader in the ‘soft 
adventure’ sector. The Explore programmes, 
which are targeted at specific groups of 
consumers, have performed strongly during the 
year; most notably Explore Family Adventures 
grew by 00% and Explore Cycle by 70%. New 
tours and destinations have been added to 
expand our core product offering. We continue 
to benefit from the growing aspirations of 
travellers to be bolder and push their own limits.
RegalDive has maintained a solid trading 
performance and remained on budget, despite 
the bombing in Sharm El Sheikh in Egypt. The 
business is successfully expanding outside of 
Red Sea destinations.
Overall 2006 sales intake for the Adventure 
Travel Division is currently 9% higher than 2005. 
Camping 
The Camping Division sold 523,000 European 
camping and mobile-home holidays in 2005 
(2004: 570,000). Our main brands, Eurocamp 
and Keycamp, remain sector leaders and are 
sold in numerous European markets: the UK, 
Eire, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, 
Denmark, Switzerland, Austria and Poland.
Turnover in Camping was £3.7m (2004: 
£23.2m) and operating profit* declined by 
5.4% to £3.0m (2004: £3.7m). Operating 
profit* margin improved to .4% (2004: .%) 
and remains well ahead of industry average. 
The division generated £2.9m of free cash 
flow** (2004: £8.9m).
The trend towards later bookings by customers 
continues. The division remains a relatively high 
fixed cost business. It is concentrating on 
managing high season yields more successfully 
by holding prices and resisting discounting in 
pursuit of earlier bookings. Capacity cuts in 
areas of weaker demand have supported this 
revenue management strategy. Overall 
accommodation capacity (tents and mobile-
homes) in 2005 was reduced by 2% and in 
2005/06 we intend to reduce it by 6%. 
Our marketing is focused on widening the 
appeal as well as capitalising on the shift from 
ferries to low cost airlines. Whilst we are at a 
fairly early stage in the booking season, to date 
current 2006 sales intake for the Camping 
Division is 2% lower than 2005, reflecting the 
planned lower capacity on sale. We are making 
good progress in selling low-season holidays. 
Strategy
Our focus remains on our cash generative 
businesses, all of which are strongly placed in 
the markets they occupy. We command, by 
virtue of our market leadership and the strength 
of relationships with suppliers and customers 
alike, industry-leading operating margins* of 
over 0% at the Group level. 
We continue to increase our presence in the 
wider continental European market. During 
2005 we have successfully acquired and 
integrated two businesses, Bookit and Djoser,  
in the Netherlands. The impact of these is 
 
 
3.0m holidays sold
 
27 websites across all brands
 
24% of sales from non-UK 6
Holidaybreak plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2005
substantial; we anticipate that for the year 
ahead the share of revenues from the Benelux 
area will be approximately 30% on a total 
transaction value basis versus only 2%  
in 2004. The Camping Division’s share of 
annualised total transactions values has fallen 
from 44% last year to 34% this year. We are 
also becoming more of an online business. 
While we continue to base our sales on a  
multi-channel distribution approach to reflect  
the different ways in which consumers wish  
to access our products, I am particularly 
pleased that the internet is growing strongly  
in all divisions. 
Since taking on the role of Chief Executive in 
September, I have been enormously impressed 
by the determination, relationship-building and 
commercial acumen of our managers. Our 
financial strength gives us the opportunity to 
consider a range of options to strengthen our 
specialist portfolio. We need to consolidate our 
market leadership in ‘soft adventure’ tours and 
grow the sector. We will be investing more in 
our online capability in all divisions.
While we grow your company, we are also 
mindful of our balance sheet structure. We 
continue to review the investment needs of  
the Group, targeting an appropriate return on 
invested capital.
Going forward, I am keen to exploit more 
opportunities for sharing best practice  
across the Group and, where appropriate,  
to identify sensible acquisitions that add to our 
growth prospects, our online presence, our 
geographical spread and that have the potential 
to deliver good financial returns. All this will  
be done while maintaining our focus on our 
existing operations to continue their strong cash 
generation and industry-leading margins. 
Carl Michel
Chief Executive
* Before goodwill amortisation £3.9m (2004: £2.7m) and 
impairment £8.7m (2004: £5.3m) and exceptional costs 
in 2004 only (£2.6m).
** Free cash flow is operating cash flow after capital 
expenditure (£8.6m (2004: £.0m)) net of disposals 
(£6.2m (2004: £4.3m)) and after interest and tax 
payments (£.4m (2004: £.6m)).
Chief Executive’ s Review
Group Strategy
Operate a portfolio of cash generative 
specialist holiday businesses
Seek market leadership in all the sectors 
in which we operate
Maintain flexible cost structure and 
industry-leading margins
Deliver organic growth through effective 
execution of existing operations
Explore acquisitions across Europe, 
complementary to our existing 
businesses
Carl on Explore’s ‘Machu Picchu and Titicaca’ tour. 7
Holidaybreak plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2005
European specialist holiday group
Questions and Answers
Q. Is Holidaybreak 
planning more European 
acquisitions?
A. The Group is more international 
and we think that our European 
expansion will continue as we 
grow. We are now more visibly on 
the map, at least in North-West 
Europe, than ever before. We have 
three entries in the Dutch Tour 
Operator Top 50 (with Bookit, 
Djoser and Eurocamp) so that 
collectively we are now a major 
player in that market. But more 
importantly, we are market leaders 
in each of our sectors. If we can 
find similar profitable opportunities 
in other markets, then they will be 
carefully considered.
Q. How is the high street 
affecting Holidaybreak?
A. The issue for us is not so much 
the ebb and flow of high street 
sales, rather it is the changing way 
people are buying holidays. People 
are using travel agents less and 
the internet more. We have to 
respond. That is why, for example, 
the proportion of Hotel Breaks’ 
sales coming via the internet has 
doubled in the last year.
Q. What are the major 
changes in consumer 
demand?
A. Consumers are growing more 
confident and venturing further 
afield. In the Camping Division we 
see this in the increasing numbers 
who fly instead of drive. We have 
responded to this with a change  
in our capacity plans away from 
Northern France to more 
Mediterranean destinations, 
although the availability of  
camp-sites is limited in some 
regions. In the Adventure Travel 
Division, we see the constant need 
to add to our programmes, not 
just exotic new destinations such 
as Mauritania and Kamchatka, but 
also to reflect the fact that more 
families feel ready now to go on  
a ‘soft adventure’ trip, which was 
practically unheard of as little as 
five years ago. In the Hotel Breaks 
Division, we are seeing a shift from 
a focus on ‘just a room’ to interest 
in the overall experience, raising 
the importance of a theatre trip,  
a tour or a spa visit. 
Each of these trends has a 
common theme: more speciality 
focus, directly playing to our 
strengths. 
Q. What is the future for the 
Camping Division?
A. We are confident that with this 
season’s capacity reductions, the 
business is now ‘right sized’ for 
future growth. Camp-sites which 
have not kept up-to-date with 
increasing demands for facilities 
have been taken out of our 
programme and the shift from 
tents to mobile-homes continues. 
We have a number of exciting 
plans to broaden the appeal to 
families who enjoy self-catering, to 
‘empty-nesters’ who can enjoy the 
informal outdoor lifestyle outside  
of the high season and to all our 
customers by further enhancing 
our mobile-home estate with new 
accommodation concepts and 
locations. 
Q. How do you plan to 
exploit more inter-divisional 
synergies?
A. As a first step we are planning 
to bring together the divisional IT 
Directors to highlight opportunities. 
Simply applying best practice  
will have a significant impact. All 
divisions are being encouraged  
to identify opportunities. I am 
delighted at how successful Bookit 
was in selling camping capacity in 
the Netherlands for Eurocamp. 
Q. How do you plan to 
access the potential 
customer base in Eastern 
Europe?
A. We already sell our camping 
holidays in Poland and I hope to 
extend this to other new member 
states of the EU. Much depends 
on income levels and internet 
penetration, but both of these are 
catching up fast. On the flip side, 
we have significantly increased  
our hotel offering in cities such  
as Tallinn, Riga and Bucharest.
Q. How have geopolitical 
turmoil and climatic events 
affected the Adventure 
Travel Division?
A. Running tours that essentially 
cover the globe means that we are 
constantly vigilant. Terrorism is of 
particular concern but tends to be 
concentrated in more media visible 
city locations, which our tours tend 
not to visit. The regrettable 
depressing frequency of such 
events has begun to reduce the 
impact of terrorism on travel 
intentions – people seem to 
accept such events as part and 
parcel of life. Of bigger concern 
are climatic events, such as 
hurricanes and earthquakes; we 
have rearranged itinerary timings 
and/or routings as necessary. Our 
customers seem rather inured to 
all these situations and don’t seem 
to be put off easily!
Q. Is the formula of 
low asset intensity, 
high margins and cash 
generation one that you 
plan to keep to?
A. Absolutely. We command 
returns which most of our peer 
group would envy. Any prospective 
acquisition needs to meet these 
criteria as well as giving us a 
good, if not leading, market 
position. 
