 2 Annual Report 2003 Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement: GUS has had
another successful year, with profits 
up 16% to £642m. 
Our aim is to grow the value of these businesses for
the benefit of shareholders. GUS acts as strategic
architect in ensuring that each business has clear
plans, high quality management and a strong capital
resource. ARG, Experian and Burberry are each
pursuing exciting strategies, with considerable scope
for development over the next few years.
During the last year we have continued to reshape the
GUS portfolio around these major businesses. The
most notable changes have been the acquisition of
Homebase, a leading retailer in the growing DIY and
home furnishings market; the disposal of our Home
Shopping and Reality businesses; and the partial
flotation of Burberry. Experian has also strengthened
its position in the marketplace with a new global
management structure and the strategically important
acquisitions of Scorex, ConsumerInfo.com, Nordic Info
Group and 1 1 affiliate bureaux in the United States.
Our commitment to shareholders is to create long-
term value at all times and the Board continues to
review options in this regard. In floating Burberry, for
example, we recognised that it was the right time in
the growth and development of this business for part
of its ownership to be held more widely. Our decision
to arrange a partial IPO for our South African Retailing
business is another example of how we are realising
value for the benefit of shareholders. 
Board change
I believe that we have a strong Board at GUS, with an
excellent mix of skills and experience. Just as
important is our ability to work together as a team.
In March 2003, the Board was further strengthened by
the addition of Craig Smith, who had recently been
appointed Chairman of Experian worldwide. Craig
joined Experian in 2000 as CEO of Experian North
America, where he played a key role in successfully
repositioning the business. I am delighted to welcome
him to the Board. 
This is the third consecutive year of growth and
reflects the strength of the Group’s main businesses,
each of which has reported increased sales and
profits. Earnings per share rose by 15% to 47.8p and
cash flow was strong.
Our continued progress has been achieved in the face
of challenging conditions in many of our major
markets. This progress has been greatly to the credit
of GUS people at all levels and I would like to thank
them for their tremendous endeavour. 
The Board has declared a final dividend of 16.4p,
making 23.3p for the year (2002: 21.7p).
Group strategy
GUS is committed to the growth and development of
three major businesses: Experian, Argos Retail Group
(ARG) and Burberry. Each of these businesses is
already – or has the potential to be – the leader in its
chosen sectors. Furthermore, the markets in which
they operate have significant growth characteristics. Annual Report 2003 Chairman’s statement 3 
Governance 
The issue of corporate governance has been a
recurring theme in the world’s stock markets during
the year. The Board of GUS is committed to being as
transparent as any business can reasonably be and is
determined to fulfil shareholders’ expectations on
matters of disclosure. 
At the same time, we recognise that the role of
governance embraces a much wider remit. It is about
having clear strategies, attracting the best talent,
encouraging creativity and commitment, fulfilling our
responsibilities to the community and maintaining the
highest standards of integrity. Together, these are
prerequisites for corporate success that enable us to
create value for our shareholders through sustained
profitable growth. 
Sir Victor Blank
Chairman
27 May 2003
Sir Victor Blank
Chairman
