 Financial summary
Sales Profit before taxation
2003 2002 2003 2002
for the years ended 31 March £m £m £m £m
Experian 1,201 1,115 256.4 224.2
Argos Retail Group 5,234 4,703 285.1 255.2
Burberry 594 499 116.7 90.3
Other 117 140 42.3 48.9
Total 7,146 6,457 700.5 618.6
Net interest (58.1) (66.5)
Profit before amortisation
of goodwill, exceptional items
and taxation 642.4 552.1
Amortisation of goodwill (142.9) (99.4)
Exceptional items (90.1) (72.6)
Profit before taxation 409.4 380.1
EPS before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional items 47.8p 41.7p
Reported EPS 25.1p 25.7p
4 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Continued sales and profits growth
This has been our third consecutive year of sales and
profit growth. Sales in the year to March 2003 increased
by 11% and profit before amortisation of goodwill,
exceptional items and taxation by 16%. Experian, Argos
and Burberry all reported record profits.
The year also saw strong operating cash flow, as a
result of the profit growth and tight control of costs
and working capital.
Increased focus
We have continued to reposition GUS around our major
businesses – Experian, Argos Retail Group and Burberry.
The partial flotation of Burberry in July 2002 enabled
us to establish an independent market value for this
business and raised £239m for GUS. The flotation was
successfully undertaken in difficult market conditions,
reflecting Burberry’s strong financial momentum. GUS
has retained a 77.5% stake in Burberry. 
Our property joint venture with British Land and our
vehicle financing business continued to be wound
down, releasing over £200m during the year.
Since the year-end, we have disposed of our home
shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden,
together with our logistics and customer care
business, Reality. These operations were sold to
March U.K. Limited for approximately £590m.
We have also announced our intention, subject to
market conditions, to arrange a partial IPO for our
South African Retailing business during calendar year
2004. A partial IPO will enable GUS to realise some
value, while enhancing the development opportunities
for our South African business. 
Chief executive’s review: GUS has delivered
another strong financial performance. 
Our major businesses are positioned for
long-term growth and sector leadership. Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 5
Strong investment
The release of capital during the year enabled us to
make significant investments in our major businesses,
including several acquisitions that will enhance their
growth prospects. The largest of these was Homebase,
which is the number two brand in the UK’s do-it-yourself
market. It has taken ARG into an important growth
sector and provided the potential for substantial
operational synergies. 
Experian’s acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com, which
supplies online credit information to consumers in
North America, has firmly established Experian as the
leading direct-to-consumer player in its marketplace.
Experian in North America has also continued to
acquire its affiliated regional credit bureaux, in order
to gain a greater share of the value chain for credit
products. Internationally, Experian strengthened its
position with the acquisition of Nordic Info Group, a
leading information company in Denmark and Norway.
Experian also acquired its outstanding stakes in
Scorex to create a global decision solutions business. 
Burberry opened or refurbished 12 new stores,
including flagship stores in New York, London
(Knightsbridge) and Barcelona. The company also
acquired its Korean distributor and, in doing so,
completed the programme to take direct control 
of key Asian markets outside Japan. 
Growth opportunities
The major businesses of GUS now have a consistent
track record of sales and profit growth. They are
focused on growing markets and are well positioned
in those markets. They are also attracting people of
exceptional talent.
Experian is a leader in the growing international
market for business solutions, offering the broadest
range of information and services in its sector. ARG is
the UK’s leading general merchandise retailer.
Burberry continues to consolidate its position as a
leading luxury brand.
Over the next few pages you will read about the
progress that these businesses have made during the
last year, together with the strategies that are being
put in place to ensure their long-term success.
John Peace 
Group Chief Executive 6 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Experian
Experian helps organisations to target, acquire and
manage new customers and develop successful
customer relationships. Its clients operate in a diverse
range of sectors, including financial services,
telecommunications, healthcare, insurance, retailing,
automotive and government. 
Experian delivered global sales growth of 12% and
profit growth of 20% last year, at constant exchange
rates. This was driven by the improving underlying
sales performance of Experian North America, the
continuing strong progress of Experian International
and the benefit of strategic acquisitions. 
Throughout the year, Experian built on its leading
positions in the US and UK, while extending its reach
internationally. A number of key acquisitions were
made to enhance Experian’s global product range 
and to support its development within important
growth markets. 
Changes were also made in the global management
structure to assist Experian in leveraging resources on
a worldwide scale. In March 2003, Craig Smith,
formerly CEO of Experian North America, became
Chairman of Experian worldwide. He was succeeded
by Don Robert, formerly Chief Operating Officer in
North America. 
John Saunders, who continued as CEO of Experian
International, took on responsibility for Experian’s
global decision solutions business. This followed the
acquisition of Experian’s remaining stakes in Scorex,
an international provider of credit solutions. Experian
had been operating joint ventures with Scorex since
1996 and will now be able to develop an integrated
product range for decision solutions, available across
a wide range of markets. 
Experian North America
Experian North America performed strongly during
the year, despite some challenging market conditions.
There were productivity gains and major new
contracts throughout the business, with sales up 13%
and profits up 20% in dollars. 
Excluding the acquisition of ConsumerInfo.com, credit
information and solutions sales increased 8%, helped
by demand from clients in interest rate sensitive
sectors, especially the mortgage refinancing market. 
Experian has further strengthened its
position as a leading global business
solutions company, providing strategic
support to clients in over 60 countries.
Demand for fraud protection systems was particularly
strong, with clients of Experian’s National Fraud
Database reporting a dramatic reduction in losses
after incorporating the database within their credit
application processing systems. The ability to
authenticate consumers over the Internet was another
growth area, allowing clients such as VISA, Dell
Financial Services, First American Payment Processing
and Yahoo to reduce fraud and improve each
customer’s online experience. 
Experian also embarked on a major programme to
acquire its 38 affiliate credit bureaux. This will
provide Experian with direct control of an important
distribution channel and ensure that the clients of
these affiliates have direct access to the full range of
Experian products. 
Demand for marketing information and solutions
continued to be affected by difficult market conditions,
with most clients reducing expenditure in this area.
Despite this, sales were on an improving trend
throughout the year and up 4% during the last six
months. AOL, Citigroup and Dell were among the
companies that awarded major contracts to Experian in
order to enhance their ability to reach new customers.
There was particularly strong demand for Truvue, the
Experian customer management solution, which
enables businesses to integrate the records of
different business units or databases in order to
create a single view of each customer. 
Direct-to-consumer sales now account for 11% of
Experian sales in North America, compared to less
than 1% in the previous year, following the acquisition
of ConsumerInfo.com. This business provides
consumers with online access to their credit reports
and has been combined with Experian’s own direct-to-
consumer operation to create the clear leader in this
growing market. 
The recent acquisition of PromiseMark will enable
Experian to strengthen its direct-to-consumer offer
even further by providing insurance against identity
theft, one of the fastest growing crimes in the US. 
The FARES joint venture, which is Experian’s chosen
way of competing in the real estate information
sector, had another good year and continued to
benefit from strong activity in the mortgage
refinancing market. Experian’s 20% share of FARES
profits was up $6m to almost $50m.
Some major clients: 
ABN AMRO Bank 
Abbey National
Alliance & Leicester 
AOL Time Warner 
Bank One 
Bank of America 
Barclays 
BBC News Online 
BMW 
BNP Paribas
Capital One 
Chase 
Citigroup 
Commerzbank
Egg 
First American 
Ford 
HBOS/Bank of Scotland
Household 
Lloyds TSB
MBNA
McDonald’s 
Morgan Stanley 
RBS 
Société Générale
Sears 
Standard Life Bank
Experian operating profit
£ million
 201 
 00  01  02  03 
 217 
 224
 256  Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 7
Citigroup: Experian is working
with Citi Cards, the largest
provider of card products in the
United States, to develop a
centralised marketing database.
Citi Cards is a unit of Citigroup.
Motor insurance database: 
A total of 25,000 enquiries are
being received from the police
each day as they check
Experian’s motor insurance
database to see whether vehicles
are properly insured.
Headquarters: Experian’s
headquarters are in Costa Mesa,
California (pictured here) and
Nottingham, UK. The company
employs over 13,000 people
worldwide.
Fraud: Banks, building societies
and financial service providers 
in the UK and US are increasingly
turning to Experian to support
them in their fight against all
forms of fraud, from identity
theft to money laundering. 8 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Experian continued
Experian International
Experian International, which accounts for 40% of
Experian’s worldwide sales, had another successful
year. Sales increased by 11% and profit by 21% at
constant exchange rates.
Sales of credit information and solutions grew by
15%, with particularly strong growth in business
information and account processing. Experian’s
presence outside the UK was significantly enhanced
by the acquisition of Nordic Info Group, the leading
consumer and business credit information provider 
in Denmark and Norway. The acquisition brought the
total number of information bureaux operated by
Experian to 16 and provided a strong platform for 
the sale of a full range of integrated information and
decision support solutions.
Experian also benefited from recent investments to
bring its consumer marketing and decision solutions
skills to the field of business information. This resulted
in a range of new products, including commercial
versions of Experian’s credit application processing
system, Autoscore, and its geodemographic profiling
system, Mosaic. 
As in North America, Experian International is meeting
the growing demand for credit solutions, not least in
the fight against fraud. In the UK alone, ‘card not
present’ fraud increased by over 60% during 2002, 
as criminals used stolen credit card details to make
purchases over the telephone and Internet.
Significant progress was also made in account
processing, with a number of major contracts awarded
to Experian by clients expanding their operations into
Europe. In the UK, Experian supported the pilot of the
new Marks & Spencer joint credit and loyalty card.
Sales of marketing information and solutions grew 
by 14%, despite difficult market conditions. This was
driven by strong growth in the automotive and
insurance sectors. 
Within the automotive sector, Experian continued to
enhance its Car Data Check database, while developing
the market for dealer management and sales reporting
systems. Lexus, the luxury car manufacturer, was 
one of a number of automotive clients to adopt an
automated online system in order to make faster and
more informed marketing decisions.
Outsourcing accounted for about 30% of Experian
International’s sales and showed 4% growth in the
year. In the UK, Experian won a major contract from
NTL to supply consumer billing services. In Italy,
Experian was chosen by CartaSi, the country’s leading
bank card, to support its customer contact operation. 
In the UK, Experian enhanced its ability to provide
strategic advice to clients with the acquisition of one
of the leading economic consultancy groups, Business
Strategies. The combination of Business Strategies’
analysis and forecasting abilities with Experian’s
information assets will open up new areas of expertise
and product development.
ABN AMRO: This global 
banking group uses Experian’s
advanced decision solutions to
streamline decision-making in all
areas of customer management,
from processing loan applications
to collecting overdue accounts.
Experian’s recent acquisition of
Scorex has created a global
decision solutions business,
capable of supporting clients
such as ABN AMRO in many
different market places. Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 9
Argos Retail Group had another 
successful year as the UK’s leading 
general merchandise retailer.
Argos Retail Group
Over the last three years, Argos Retail Group (ARG)
has invested significantly in building the UK’s 
leading general merchandise retailing group. ARG’s
proposition of choice, value and convenience is
supported by a greatly strengthened product supply
chain and multiple shopping channels – stores,
catalogues, telephone and Internet. Together these
provide ARG’s retail brands with a powerful platform
for growth. 
The Argos retail chain has been transformed since its
acquisition in 1998, outperforming its market for the
third successive year. The acquisition of Homebase in
December 2002 means that ARG now has the second
largest brand in the do-it-yourself market and a
strong base from which to increase its position in the
growing homewares and furnishings market.
In May 2003, ARG announced the disposal of its home
shopping businesses in the UK, Ireland and Sweden,
together with its logistics and customer care business,
Reality. As a result, ARG in the UK and Ireland is now
focused on general merchandise through its Argos
and Homebase businesses.
In the year under review, ARG increased sales by 
11% and profits by 12%.
Argos
Argos has continued to go from strength to strength,
achieving sales of over £3bn for the first time. Sales
were up 12% and profit up 17%.
Thirty-three new Argos stores were opened during the
year, bringing the total to 523, with plans to open a
similar number this year. The store refurbishment
programme also continued apace, including initiatives
to improve customer service. Over 500 quick-pay
kiosks were installed to enable customers to order
and pay for goods without going to the till. Argos
also became the first High Street retailer to take
advantage of the growth in mobile phone text
messaging with a ‘Text & Take Home’ service. 
The Argos product range was significantly expanded,
with about 25% more products in the latest
Spring/Summer catalogue compared to the previous
edition. These were largely in the areas of bedding,
furniture and textiles, where sales are set to increase
as customer awareness grows. Delivery of products to
home via Argos Direct increased by 33% and now
accounts for 18% of all Argos sales.
Argos’ achievements during the year were recognised
by its peers at the Retail Week Awards, the UK retail
industry awards. Argos won no less than four awards:
Retail Technology, Multi-channel Retailing, Marketing
and, most importantly, Retailer of the Year.
Argos advertising: The launch
of the new Argos advertising
campaign, starring Julia Sawalha
and Richard E Grant, resulted in
faster pick-up of the new Argos
catalogue, increased purchase
frequency and improved
perceptions of the Argos brand.
It also won the Marketing
Campaign of the Year at the
Retail Week Awards 2003. 10 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Argos continued
Homebase 
Homebase, the do-it-yourself and home furnishings
retailer, was acquired in December 2002. This business
operates in fast growing markets, with excellent
organic growth prospects. There are also significant
operational benefits to be gained from combining
Homebase’s supply chain and infrastructure with
those of ARG.
The priority since acquisition was to prepare for peak
trading in April and May. In addition, the management
team was strengthened by appointments from within
ARG and a number of early gains were identified,
particularly within the supply chain. 
The focus during the current year is to create a
successful platform for growth in 2004 and beyond,
while delivering on profit expectations. Key initiatives
will include improving the in-store experience and
increasing the sales of high value items such as
furniture, bathrooms and kitchens. Further stores 
are also planned, together with the continued roll 
out of mezzanine floors, which offer an attractive
return on investment. 
Home Shopping UK & Ireland
The market for agency home shopping remained
difficult during the year. As a result, sales in ARG’s 
UK & Ireland home shopping businesses were 
8% below the level of last year. 
The rundown or sale of peripheral businesses
accounted for 3% of this decline. Sales from continuing
direct catalogues, principally Marshall Ward and
Abound, remained strong. 
Reality
Reality continued to support ARG’s multi-channel
operations with home delivery and customer care
services. Sales to external customers were level with
the previous year. The core logistics business grew
sales by 7%, but this was offset by the withdrawal
from and sale of peripheral activities, including
packaging and fleet management. 
Following the disposal of Reality in May 2003, ARG 
has entered into commercial agreements with it for 
the continuing provision of home delivery and 
other services. 
Financial Services
Demand for the Argos store card continued to grow,
with 630,000 active accounts, up from 460,000 
a year ago. Outstanding balances increased from
£50m to £155m, with over 7% of sales at Argos now
made using the store card.
Argos personal loans, which were introduced with the
Autumn/Winter catalogue, also made good progress. 
Home Shopping Continental Europe
Sales in Continental Europe increased by 10% and
profit by 5% at constant exchange rates. Wehkamp,
which is the leading home shopping brand in Holland,
accounted for 80% of these sales and benefited from
improved promotional activity and strong growth in
branded clothing and electronic goods.
ARG operating profit
£ million
 192 
 00  01  02  03 
 21 7 
 255 
 285  Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 11 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 11
Store openings: Homebase had
273 stores at the year-end and a
further nine are planned during
the current financial year.
Argos growth: Argos has
continued to go from strength 
to strength, outperforming 
its market for the third
successive year.
Homebase: The new mezzanine
floors are enabling Homebase 
to showcase kitchens, bathrooms
and home furnishings, while
providing an attractive return 
on investment.
Argos store card: Over 7% of
Argos sales were made using the
Argos store card. There were
about 630,000 active card holders
by the year-end.  12 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
Burberry
This was an eventful year for Burberry, both
strategically and financially, during which it
established a strong platform for future growth.
The year began with Burberry’s successful IPO, which
took place during some of the most difficult stock
market conditions in more than a decade. It was a
significant milestone in a five-year transformation 
of Burberry that saw a new management team
undertake a series of initiatives to create a distinctive
luxury brand with international recognition and 
broad appeal. 
Burberry ended the year with an excellent set of
financial results, ahead of expectations at the time of
the IPO in July 2002. At constant exchange rates,
sales increased by 21% and profit by 34%. 
Products
Burberry products include apparel for women, men
and children, together with accessories such as
handbags, scarves and small leather goods. 
The continuing development of high-margin
accessories was a primary objective during the year.
These now account for 29% of the product mix.
Womenswear, which led the revitalisation of the
Burberry brand, maintained its strong momentum,
with sales up 20% on the previous year. This was led
by strong demand for new interpretations of
traditional Burberry classics such as the trench coat
and by new core classics such as quilted jackets and
kilt-inspired skirts. In menswear, Burberry continued
to capitalise on the masculine heritage of the brand
by broadening and intensifying its product range.
The Burberry Prorsum men’s and women’s collections
were showcased on the catwalks during Milan’s
quarterly fashion weeks. These strategically
important collections received outstanding 
press reviews. 
Burberry continued to build on its 
unique positioning as the authentic 
British luxury brand.
Distribution
Burberry sells products in Europe, North America and
Asia through its own directly operated stores and
wholesale customers. 
The company made further strategic progress with
the acquisition of its Korean distributor, which
completed Burberry’s programme of taking direct
control of its primary Asian markets outside Japan.
The licensing arrangements in Japan, which is the
most important luxury market in the world, continued
to flourish with retail sales in excess of an estimated
£1 billion.
In North America, which represents a key area of
future growth, Burberry continued to expand its
presence through increased sales in existing and new
stores. The new 24,000 square foot store in New York
City was one of five to be opened in North America. 
It also became the largest of Burberry’s flagship stores
to date and the most complete expression of the
Burberry brand in the US market.
Within Europe, the brand’s repositioning in the domestic
Spanish market made encouraging progress, led by
the opening of a store in Barcelona, Burberry’s first in
this important market. 
Burberry operating profit
£ million
 22 
 00  01  02  03 
 70 
 90 
 11 7  Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 13 
New York: The new 24,000
square foot flagship store in 
New York City was opened in
November 2002. It was one of 
1 2 Burberry stores to be opened
or refurbished last year.
Apparel: Burberry’s apparel
collections were showcased in
London and Milan during the
year, with significant editorial
recognition from fashion and
lifestyle media.
Barcelona: Burberry’s
repositioning in the important
Spanish market progressed with
the opening of a store in
Barcelona. 
Accessories: Burberry
accessories were 29% of the sales
mix, compared to 25% in the
previous year as a result of
continued product development. 14 Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review
South African Retailing
Despite the tough economic environment, our South
African Retailing business continued to make progress.
Strong price competition and high interest rates held
back sales, which were up 2% in local currency on the
previous year. However, profits were up 13% in rand,
as the result of an expanded financial services offer,
careful control of bad debt and cost savings initiatives. 
South African Retailing has a strong market position
and an excellent management team. It currently
operates 398 Lewis stores and 45 Best Electric stores
and, in recent years, has undertaken a number of
initiatives to enhance the product range, improve
credit controls and reduce costs. The business is now
well placed to take advantage of the widely expected
recovery in consumer spending in South Africa.
Subject to market conditions, we intend to arrange a
partial IPO on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange
for our South African Retailing business during
calendar year 2004.
Our social responsibilities
Our businesses have continued to focus on the issues
of Corporate Social Responsibility with enthusiasm and
commitment. The Group’s latest CSR Report records
strong progress in our environmental, community and
human rights management. We also continue to be
listed in the main indices of socially responsible
investment, including FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones
Global Sustainability Index. 
In our environmental management, we have improved
our energy efficiency for the third year running, while
finding new ways to reduce our use of packaging
across the Group. We have also devoted considerable
effort to implementing our Supplier Principles to
ensure that suppliers share our concern for human
rights in the workplace.
Such progress relies greatly on the wholehearted
enthusiasm and support of GUS people at all levels,
but nowhere more so than in our relationships with
local communities. The GUS Charitable Trust is the
primary focus for the Group’s direct giving to
community projects and donated £967,000 during the
year. In a groundbreaking move, it brought together
over 20 medical charities in the field of prostate
cancer to work together for change. 
Experian undertook a wide range of community
initiatives, including sponsorship of the Robin Hood
Marathon in Nottingham, which was supported by
over 700 employees, and the Habitat for Humanity
project in North America to provide affordable
housing for low-income families. Argos Retail Group
focused many of its fundraising efforts on its charity
of the year, Barnardo’s, raising over £370,000. 
Our people
Our ability to attract and motivate talented people
remained a high priority during the year. Our
recruitment policies benefited from the increasing
strength of our brands and we continued to develop
the working environment and incentives to encourage
top performance. The GUS ‘Sharesave’ arrangements
were extended to four new countries and a further
four countries will be included this year. 
Summary
GUS has had another good year. We have continued 
to focus and strengthen the Group, while generating
increased sales and profits for the third consecutive
year. Our main businesses have strong management
teams, clear strategies and many further opportunities
for growth and we remain confident about their
future prospects.
John Peace
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2003
The Group’s major businesses have strong
management teams, clear strategies and
many further opportunities for growth.
South African Retailing: GUS 
is planning a partial IPO of its
South African business during
calendar year 2004, subject to
market conditions. Annual Report 2003 Chief executive’s review 15
Experian marathon: The
Experian Robin Hood Marathon 
in Nottingham was voted by
Runners World magazine as the
best marathon in the UK after 
the London Marathon. More 
than 700 Experian employees
supported this fund raising event.
Barnardo’s: Employees of 
Argos Retail Group raised over
£370,000 for their charity of the
year, Barnardo’s. 
GUS Sharesave: The GUS
Sharesave Scheme, which enables
employees to take a stake in 
the business through a 
SAYE share option plan, continues
to be rolled out beyond the UK.
