 Our vision is for Homeserve to be “Y our Home 
Emergency Service Worldwide”. This means 
selling policies to cover home emergencies and 
carrying out high quality repairs for a complete 
range of home emergencies. 
Having disposed of all of our Commercial 
Outsourcing operations in the year we are now 
focusing all of our resource on developing our 
core Home Emergency business. The acquisition 
of Sergon and, subsequent to the year end, 
of Chem-Dry, signiﬁ cantly enhance our repair 
service offering and place Homeserve in a 
unique position to provide a fully integrated 
service to our Household Insurance Business 
Partners.
Our Policy Membership business provides 
underwritten cover for a range of domestic 
emergencies including plumbing and drains, 
electrical wiring, gas, central heating, electrical 
and other appliances and furniture. We also 
reinsure half of the risks underwritten for water 
and utilities branded policies, through our 
offshore captive insurance company to share in 
the insurance proﬁ ts from these policies. Our 
own membership policies are afﬁ nity branded 
to our Business Partners in the utilities, appliance 
manufacturing and retail sectors. 
Our Emergency Repair business is now a clear 
market leader in carrying out a broad range of 
claims repairs on behalf of Household Insurers, 
from ﬁ re and ﬂ ood restoration, glazing, locks, 
window and door frames, drainage repairs and 
permanent building repairs (plastering, painting 
and decorating). These trades are delivered 
through a combination of employed, subcontract 
and franchised repairers. In April 2005, we 
rebranded our directly employed Emergency 
Repair operation as Homeserve in order to 
increase awareness of our name for home 
emergency repairs.
Homeserve now has over 3,300 employees, 
including over 700 directly employed engineers 
and operates a network of over 4,600 
subcontract and franchised engineers providing a 
comprehensive range of trades nationally.
Homeserve has again delivered strong operating 
proﬁ t
*
 performance and record levels of new 
customer and policy membership growth with 
continuing operations generating turnover 
including share of joint ventures of £223m and 
operating proﬁ ts
*
 of £42.4m.
Chief Executive’s Review
Richard Harpin, Chief Executive
notes 2 and 10)
Report & Accounts 2005 6
Overview
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 6 1/6/05 4:46:15 pm
*  pre goodwill and exceptional items (see proﬁ t & loss account and  Homeserve plc 7
“Our vision is for Homeserve to be “Your Home 
Emergency Service Worldwide” . This means selling 
policies to cover home emergencies and carrying 
out high quality repairs for a complete range of 
home emergencies.”
“Our vision is for Homeserve to be “Your Home 
Emergency Service Worldwide” . This means selling 
policies to cover home emergencies and carrying 
out high quality repairs for a complete range of 
home emergencies.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 7 1/6/05 4:46:17 pm Policy Membership
Turnover including share of joint ventures 
and operating proﬁ t
*
 from these businesses 
increased by 30.1% and 30.8% to £131m and 
£42.4m respectively.
Homeserve GB 
Our utilities branded policy business is the 
market leader in the provision of plumbing 
and drainage cover as well as a range of other 
emergency policies, to customers of water 
and energy companies. This business had an 
outstanding year for policy, customer and proﬁ t 
growth, achieving excellent response rates for 
both direct mail and telesales operations. T otal 
UK policies increased by 32% from 2.93m to 
3.88m;
• 2.76m in plumbing and drains (2004: 2.10m)
• 0.60m in electrical (2004: 0.57m) and 
• 0.52m in other including gas supply pipe and 
domestic heating policies (2004: 0.26m).
The record level for new policies sold of 1.36m 
(2004: 0.93m) reﬂ ects a healthy increase in the 
number of customers of 21% to 2.36m and 
an improved average number of policies per 
customer of 1.65 compared with 1.50 last year. 
Successful new creative styles for our direct 
mailings were introduced during the year. 
These were one page mailings, containing an 
application form without a leaﬂ et, which cost 
less to produce but resulted in increased take 
up. In addition, our water supply pipe mailings 
performed well, bringing in new customers as 
well as being cross sold to existing plumbing 
and drains members, with 0.5m new policies 
added during the year. The recently expanded 
gas supply pipe cover, sold through our Energy 
Partners and as a cross sell product to water 
company customers, has also started well with 
0.1m new policies sold in the year.
Average acquisition costs per policy were lower 
reﬂ ecting the improved performance of the 
new mailings, particularly water supply pipe, 
and reduced mail pack prices. This has been 
combined with the continued cost effective use 
of outbound telesales where the number of 
agents has increased to 220 from 200 last year, 
achieving over 0.4m sales.
We have maintained our high policy retention 
rate at 88%, reﬂ ecting our focus on increasing 
the proportion of customers using continuous 
payment methods such as direct debit and the 
excellent performance of our repair networks. 
We continually monitor our repair performance 
and customer satisfaction using 48 hour call 
backs and achieved 96% customer satisfaction 
levels on the core plumbing product. 
During the year we successfully renewed 14 of 
the 17 long term marketing agreements with our 
water company afﬁ nity partners. The renewed 
agreements represent 92% of our water 
company policy customer base. The exceptions 
were Wessex Water, Bristol Water and Welsh 
Water (representing 0.27m policies in total), 
where contracts expire in June 2005, July 2005 
and November 2005, and will not be renewed. 
We will retain ownership and revenue for all of 
the existing policies and shall continue to renew 
these policies without paying a commission to 
these water companies. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Report & Accounts 2005 8
Policy Membership
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 8 1/6/05 4:46:20 pm Homeserve plc 9 Homeserve plc 9
“Our utilities branded policy business is the market 
leader in the provision of plumbing and drainage 
cover as well as a range of other emergency policies.”
“Our utilities branded policy business is the market 
leader in the provision of plumbing and drainage 
cover as well as a range of other emergency policies.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 9 1/6/05 4:46:21 pm International 
The development of Homeserve International is 
progressing well. Our strategy is to replicate the 
proven UK model of water company branded 
plumbing and drainage and water supply pipe 
cover offered via direct marketing, with fully 
underwritten policies. Our organic growth will 
be supplemented by the acquisition of home 
assistance policies which can be integrated 
into our existing operations. Turnover from the 
international operations increased by 124% to 
£3m with total policies of 0.3m.
Doméo, the joint venture in France with Veolia 
Water, in which our share increased to 49% 
from 40% in November 2004, made its ﬁ rst full 
year operating proﬁ t and grew the number of 
policies by 75% to 0.28m (2004: 0.16m). Doméo 
now employs 49 staff, including 12 outbound 
telesales agents. There are approximately 12 
million owner occupied houses in France of 
which Veolia provides water to 4.5 million using 
the Generale Des Eaux brand. During the year 
we sent out 11 million door to door and solus 
mailings across the whole of France, marketing 
to 8.3 million households of which 40% were in 
areas where water is supplied by Generale des 
Eaux, achieving satisfactory take up rates in all 
areas.  We have successfully cross sold the full 
plumbing and drains policy to existing supply 
pipe members and introduced an emergency 
electrical policy. Retention rates and customer 
satisfaction both remained at high levels. 
The US business, which is based in Miami with 
18 employees, completed its ﬁ rst full year of 
trading with 33,000 (2004: 13,000) policies 
and in the second half signed its second 
business partner, Connecticut Water Services 
Inc. Connecticut Water is relatively small with 
less than 0.1m households, but is nevertheless 
important at this early stage of development.  
The water supply pipe product has been 
complemented by the successful launch of the 
full plumbing and drains product as a cross sell 
and is achieving satisfactory take up rates. Our 
48 hour call backs are reporting similar levels of 
customer satisfaction to those achieved in the 
UK. 
In May 2005 we acquired United Water’s 
Leakguard business in New Jersey and Idaho, 
including 41,000 existing policies, similar to the 
water supply pipe product marketed in the UK. 
This acquisition includes a 10 year marketing 
agreement to use the United Water brand 
providing access to over 0.5 million households 
in eight States with the potential to extend the 
offer out of area and upsell plumbing and drains 
cover.
The US market offers enormous potential for 
Homeserve, with 57 million owner occupied 
houses and a general propensity to purchase 
insurance products. However, progress in 
signing up new water company partners has 
been slower than expected, although we are in 
discussions with a number of the larger water 
companies and interest from potential partners 
is high. The market is fragmented and our ability 
to sign up new water company partners will 
determine the speed of our success. We plan 
to signiﬁ cantly strengthen our management and 
resources in this business during the coming year. 
During the year we commenced test marketing 
in Australia with our ﬁ rst partner, South 
Australian Water, which provides access to 
almost 0.5 million households. This operation 
is still at an early stage and is dependent on 
reaching agreement with other Australian water 
companies.
Our ongoing objective is to test in one new 
country each year.
Chief Executive’s Review
Report & Accounts 2005 10
Policy Membership
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 10 1/6/05 4:46:24 pm Homeserve plc 11
“The development of Homeserve International is 
progressing well. Our ongoing objective is to test 
in one new country each year.”
“The development of Homeserve International is 
progressing well. Our ongoing objective is to test 
in one new country each year.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 11 1/6/05 4:46:26 pm Retail and Manufacturer Warranties
During the year we signiﬁ cantly strengthened 
our resource in this business, combining our 
small but developing appliance manufacturer 
warranty operation and the existing furniture 
warranty business, under a newly recruited and 
highly experienced CEO. These businesses share 
the same characteristics of longer-term policies 
(three to ﬁ ve years compared to annual) and 
signiﬁ cant potential for direct marketing to ‘in 
box’ registrations for manufacturer warranty and 
to customers who chose not to purchase retail 
furniture warranties at the point of sale. 
We have signiﬁ cantly strengthened our 
manufacturer appliance warranty operation, 
which operates out of our new London ofﬁ ce. 
Additional senior management has been 
appointed with speciﬁ c manufacturer warranty 
sales and marketing experience. In September, 
we won the business of The Vaillant Group, 
now the largest boiler manufacturer in the UK, 
and are due to begin marketing policies for 
Rangemaster, part of Aga Foodservice Group in 
June 2005. The services we provide include the 
marketing and administration of their ‘in box’ ﬁ rst 
year warranty scheme, direct mail campaigns 
and outbound telesales together with initial 
claim veriﬁ cation and out of hours call handling. 
Our existing clients include Ideal Boilers, Mira 
Showers, Creda Heating, Sime Boilers, Redring 
and Xpelair. We have now signed up 359,000 
(2004: 138,000) customers on our warranty 
programmes and now have 90,000 (2004: nil) 
extended warranty policies.
Our furniture warranty business provides fully 
underwritten furniture cover, supported by 
an employed network of 110 upholsterers 
and cleaners providing a service for furniture 
retailers and manufacturers. This business 
suffered a set back following the appointment 
of administrators to Courts, its largest customer, 
combined with the difﬁ cult furniture retail 
market. Our priority is to develop existing 
sales opportunities with our existing Retailer 
Business Partners and to secure new national 
and regional retailers to replace the lost business. 
We have appointed a new Sales Director with 
signiﬁ cant experience in selling to national 
retailers and are progressing discussions with a 
number of leading national retailers and larger 
independents for furniture warranty. In addition 
we are developing our range of warranty 
products to include cover for ﬁ tted kitchen 
cabinets and appliances.  The manufacturer 
and retail warranty markets are an important 
element of our overall warranty strategy, where 
we believe there are signiﬁ cant opportunities for 
growth.
Chief Executive’s Review
Report & Accounts 2005 12
Policy Membership
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 12 1/6/05 4:46:28 pm Homeserve plc 13
“The manufacturer and retail warranty markets 
are an important element of our overall warranty 
strategy, where we believe there are signiﬁ cant 
opportunities for growth.”
“The manufacturer and retail warranty markets 
are an important element of our overall warranty 
strategy, where we believe there are signiﬁ cant 
opportunities for growth.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 13 1/6/05 4:46:30 pm Emergency Repair
Turnover and operating proﬁ t
*
 from these 
businesses increased by 37.2% and 80.7% to 
£100m and £4.8m respectively, including £12.9m 
of turnover from Sergon, acquired in December 
2004.
Homeserve Emergency Services is now 
a market leader in providing repairs to 
homeowners relating to insurance claims paid 
for by Household Insurers. The Household 
Insurance repairs market is worth an estimated 
£2bn and is highly fragmented with most 
claims still being carried out by local jobbing 
builders with a long cycle time from start to 
ﬁ nish. Homeserve’s ability to offer ﬁ re and 
ﬂ ood restoration followed by permanent 
repair puts us in a unique position to provide a 
complete repair service to Household Insurers. 
We operate a combination of employed, sub 
contract and franchised networks which enables 
us to achieve optimum efﬁ ciency and provide 
capacity for exceptional peaks in insurance 
claims.
Glazing, Locks, Plumbing and Drains
Homeserve’s glazing and locks network is the 
UK’s largest national directly employed repair 
network working for Household Insurers, 
providing a range of services including the 
repair and replacement of glass, frames, locks, 
garage doors, greenhouses and conservatories. 
This business has over 500 directly employed 
engineers operating from 37 branches 
nationally and has continued to achieve a strong 
turnaround in operating and proﬁ t performance 
despite the continued industry wide reduction in 
claims, particularly for crime and weather related 
damage. The conversion of insurance leads to 
invoiced sales has increased from 80% to 85% 
reﬂ ecting improved workﬂ ow management 
systems following the successful implementation 
of major IT system changes. This has resulted in 
better job tracking, taking over one million pieces 
of paper out of the business together with 
more efﬁ cient branch management and reduced 
administration. Eleven of the branches now have 
new branch managers and this is reﬂ ected in 
the improvement in all aspects of branch and 
engineer performance. 
Our business model is local branches with 
managers controlling an average of 12 engineers 
and three deployment staff for a single trade 
with national coverage and consistency of quality 
and pricing for insurers. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Report & Accounts 2005 14
Emergency Repair
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 14 1/6/05 4:46:34 pm “Homeserve Emergency Services is now a market 
leader in providing repairs to homeowners following 
insurance claims paid for by Household Insurers.”
Homeserve plc 15
“Homeserve Emergency Services is now a market 
leader in providing repairs to homeowners following 
insurance claims paid for by Household Insurers.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 15 1/6/05 4:46:36 pm The glazing and locks operation has won a 
number of important new accounts during 
the year with potential turnover of up to £9m 
once the accounts reach their full run-rate. We 
were recently awarded 75% of the Royal Bank 
of Scotland Insurance glazing volumes, having 
previously serviced one third; this additional 
work will commence in June 2005. In addition, 
we secured further volumes from Royal and 
Sun Alliance for small scale commercial glazing 
repairs, where we already provide services for 
domestic emergencies.
The directly employed plumbing and drainage 
network working for Household Insurers, 
established two years ago, is now one of the 
market leaders, performing work last year for 
Norwich Union, Royal and Sun Alliance and 
Royal Bank of Scotland Insurance as well as 
our own plumbing and drainage policy base. 
In February 2005 we were awarded one third 
of the volume for Royal Bank of Scotland 
Insurance Group’s account, including Direct Line, 
Nationwide and Churchill, as well as securing 
half of Zurich Insurance’s volumes in this market, 
which began in March 2005. 
We plan to increase the productivity and 
quality of our employed network through the 
introduction of ‘Fitter Package’, our engineer 
incentive scheme, which is currently being 
trialled in a number of glazing and locks 
branches. The scheme continues to pay a 
basic salary but with signiﬁ cant additional 
payments, calculated on a fortnightly basis, for 
improved productivity and provides excellent 
remuneration packages for higher ﬁ rst time ﬁ x 
rates and reduced reattends. The trial results are 
encouraging and demonstrate that signiﬁ cant 
increases in productivity combined with higher 
customer satisfaction are achievable. Our 
intention is to roll this scheme out to all glazing 
and locks branches during the coming year, 
and for plumbing and drains, ﬁ re and ﬂ ood and 
permanent repair over the next 18 months. In 
December 2004 we opened our new engineer 
training and assessment centre in Birmingham 
for glazing and associated skills and this is already 
having a signiﬁ cant impact on improving the 
quality of the work that we perform. Customer 
satisfaction has also reached record levels, 
improving signiﬁ cantly during the year, from 94% 
to 96%.
Chief Executive’s Review
Report & Accounts 2005 16
Emergency Repair
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 16 1/6/05 4:46:39 pm Homeserve plc 17
“Homeserve’s glazing and locks network is the UK’s 
largest national directly employed repair network 
working for Household Insurers.”
“Homeserve’s glazing and locks network is the UK’s 
largest national directly employed repair network 
working for Household Insurers.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 17 1/6/05 4:46:40 pm Claims Management
Homeserve Claims Management provides 
claims handling for our own policyholders 
and a home assistance helpline for emergency 
repairs for Household Insurers and other 
ﬁ nancial sector customers. Homeserve Claims 
Management operates a high quality national 
subcontract network across a broad range of 
trades. Last year we received over two million 
inbound emergency calls, an increase of 20% 
and managed over 520,000 claims. In order 
to manage the increase in activity, the planned 
move to a purpose built call centre close to the 
original operation in Preston, was completed in 
July 2004, more than doubling our operational 
capacity. During the year, we introduced a 
number of new initiatives to improve further the 
already high levels of customer service, including 
performance league tables for individual 
engineers together with a trial of electronic job 
tracking to enable better engineer management 
and customer communication. 
Permanent Repair
In December 2004 we acquired Sergon, one 
of the UK’s leading permanent repair networks 
working for Household Insurers, with over 280 
independent contractors completing 5,000 
repairs per month. Sergon provides emergency 
and permanent repairs, such as plastering and 
decorating, arising from the escape of water, 
storm, ﬁ re and accidental damage. Sergon has 
established relationships with seven Household 
Insurers and as part of Homeserve now has 
access to customer relationships with the 
majority of Household Insurers. 
Sergon currently has 90 employees working 
from its national control centre near 
Nottingham. Since its acquisition, we have 
appointed a new Managing Director and an 
Operations Director with experience of running 
a national building trades business. As a result, 
the number of completed claims by the network 
have increased signiﬁ cantly, customer service has 
improved and the average claims cycle time has 
reduced from 78 to 61 days.  
Fire and Flood Restoration
Our range of disaster restoration trades was 
further complemented by the acquisition of 
Chem-Dry in April 2005. Chem-Dry is a market 
leader in the ﬁ re and ﬂ ood restoration market 
with an estimated 30% share of a market worth 
£100m. Chem-Dry has 230 franchisees providing 
national coverage for eight leading Household 
Insurers for ﬁ re and ﬂ ood restoration and carpet 
and upholstery cleaning, with the potential to 
expand the number of insurers Chem-Dry is 
working with. The ability to deal with ﬁ re and 
ﬂ ood emergencies enables Homeserve to be 
one of the ﬁ rst businesses into a customer’s 
home following an emergency. This places us 
in a unique position to offer a fully integrated 
service to insurers, from the answering of the 
initial claim right through to completion of the 
permanent repair.
Richard Harpin
Chief Executive 
23 May 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
Report & Accounts 2005 18
Emergency Repair
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 18 1/6/05 4:46:42 pm Homeserve plc 19 Homeserve plc 19
“Homeserve is in the unique position of offering 
a fully integrated service to insurers, from the 
answering of the initial claim right through to 
completion of the permanent repair.”
“Homeserve is in the unique position of offering 
a fully integrated service to insurers, from the 
answering of the initial claim right through to 
completion of the permanent repair.”
HS Report_P ges 1-33.indd 19 1/6/05 4:46:44 pm
