 Chairman’s statement
We are pleased to announce that h omeserve 
has delivered another year of double-digit profits 
growth with earnings per share
3
 growing by 
14% driven by the strong performance of our UK 
and international operations. r evenues
1
 for our 
continuing operations have grown by 21% to 
£369.0m and profit before tax
2
 by 13% to £100.6m 
on the back of continuing good levels of customer 
and policy growth with over 10.3m policies from 
4.7m customers worldwide.
st rategi C developments
during the year we successfully completed the exit 
from our UK emergency services business allowing 
us to focus all of our resources on the growth and 
development of our membership businesses.   
We announced the acquisition of sFg in France  
in may 2009, an important step in the 
development of our european appliance  
warranty business and, after the year end,  
the acquisition in the Us of the service contract 
business from n ational g rid energy services. 
We have also expanded our global marketing 
footprint with the addition of a number of new 
affinity partners including dyson and g B o ils  
in the UK, agbar in spain and piedmont g as  
in the Us. after the year end, we also  
announced the further expansion of our Us 
footprint with the signing of long-term affinity 
partner agreements with n ational g rid Usa 
 and southern California g as.
3
With a clear and focused 
membership-only strategy 
and a strong pipeline of 
business development 
opportunities, h omeserve 
remains well positioned 
for the future.
“
“
J M Barry Gibson
Chairman r esUl ts
in the year, revenues
1
 grew by 21% to £369.0m 
(2009: £304.3m) and operating profit
2
 by 13% to 
£104.4m (2009: £92.3m) with operating margin 
reducing in line with our expectations by 2.0 
percentage points to 28.3% (2009: 30.3%) reflecting 
the planned increase in customer acquisition 
marketing in the UK and continued investment in 
business development across all our membership 
businesses. earnings per share
3
 grew by 14% to 
110.9p per share (2009: 96.9p per share).
i am pleased to say that we have delivered against 
the targets we set ourselves at the start of the year 
including 3% customer growth and a retention 
rate of 82.5% in the UK, a maiden operating profit
2
 
in the Us and the continued expansion of our 
international household footprint.
t he business continues to be very cash generative 
delivering a cash inflow from continuing and 
discontinued operations of £73.4m (2009: £92.2m) 
representing cash conversion of 93.4% (2009: 
115.7%). o ur balance sheet remains strong with net 
debt at the year end of £52.9m (2009: £34.0m) and 
£150m of banking facilities in place until december 
2012 providing us with significant flexibility to take 
advantage of selective acquisition opportunities as 
they arise.    
dividend
t he Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.5p 
per share bringing the total dividend for the year 
to 44.0p (2009: 35.5p), a year on year increase 
of 24%. t his reflects the Board’s confidence in 
the continuing strength and resilience of our 
membership businesses following the exit from 
UK emergency services. t he Board intends to 
continue to follow a policy of growing future 
dividends in line with earnings per share
3
 growth.
sh are s UB-division
a 5 for 1 sub-division of the share capital of the 
Company is proposed, the intended effect of which 
is to seek to improve the liquidity and marketability 
of the ordinary shares of the Company by 
reducing the market price of an ordinary share 
and increasing the number of shares in issue. t he 
Board will seek approval from shareholders for the 
proposed sub-division at the Company’s agm on 
30 July 2010. 
Board Ch anges
t here were a number of changes to the Board 
during the year. o n 26 June 2009, martin Bennett 
was appointed Chief Financial o fficer following the 
departure of Jonathan simpson-dent and on  
31 march 2010, Brian Whitty, executive Chairman 
since 2004 retired from the Board. as a result,  
i was appointed n on-executive Chairman on 1 april 
2010 and ian Chippendale was appointed senior 
independent director. t he Board is extremely 
grateful for the significant contribution to the 
development and growth of the business made by 
Brian over the last 14 years not only as Chairman of 
h omeserve but also before that as Chief executive 
of south staffordshire g roup plc.  
people
t hese results and the fulfilment of the Company’s 
future potential are only made possible by the 
dedication of its people, whose expertise and 
commitment remain our most important assets. 
o n behalf of the Board, i should like to thank 
them for their contribution to another set of 
excellent results.
4 overvie W
h omeserve  
annual r eport & accounts 2010
o ur focus remains on delivering long-term value for shareholders 
through a combination of strong organic growth on the back of the 
continuing development of our existing membership businesses 
and selective acquisitions. oU t loo K
We have made a positive start to the new financial 
year with all of our membership businesses  
performing well and the recent announcement  
of two new large affinity partner deals in the Us.  
o ur focus remains on delivering long-term value 
for shareholders through a combination of strong 
organic growth on the back of the continuing 
development of our existing membership 
businesses and selective acquisitions.
With a clear and focused membership-only 
strategy and a strong pipeline of business 
development opportunities h omeserve remains 
well positioned for the future and we look forward 
to another year of strong growth. 
 
J m Barry g ibson
Chairman 
25 may 2010
5 all over the world people experience  
home emergencies and need our services. 
6 BUsiness revie W
h omeserve  
annual r eport & accounts 2010
prod UCt s people Want
every household in the world experiences  
home emergencies and breakdowns. 7
Homeowners everywhere 
have trouble finding 
and paying for a reliable 
tradesman. To address this 
gap in the market, we are 
taking our products to new 
countries. We are...
Sharing best practice
to support growth we need 
to share best practice. We 
can improve our businesses 
by learning from each other, 
and we also want to create 
‘h omeserve in a box’ to help 
us set up in new countries. 
Focusing on organic 
growth 
t his means setting up our 
own operations in new 
countries. We will consider 
buying local service delivery 
capabilities and policy books 
if they are available.
h owever, these aren’t 
covered by most home 
insurance policies, and it’s 
often hard to find a reliable, 
affordable tradesman in an 
emergency. t hat’s where  
we come in. 
We offer a dedicated 
membership service,  
giving homeowners  
fast, 24-hour access to 
expert tradespeople in  
an emergency. 
o ur products are accessible, 
understandable and free our 
customers from the worry 
and inconvenience of home 
emergencies and repairs.
