 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
4
Chief Executive’s Report
Basic earnings per share rose to 53.32p.This result
includes the release of a prior year tax provision of
£189,000, following the satisfactory conclusion of
negotiations with the Inland Revenue. Basic
underlying earnings per share, after stripping out the
one-off tax provision release, rose by 54% to 50.73p
(2002 - 32.97p).
There was a net cash inflow during the year of £1.4
million. Cash at 31 March 2003 was £7.9 million
compared to £6.5 million for the previous year.The
Company continues to generate a strong cash flow,
whilst servicing a progressive dividend policy, and
maintaining a high level of expenditure on new
product development.
The Company now manufactures all of its products
in China, via third party contract manufacturers.
However some packing operations remain in the UK
where this strategy provides greater flexibility in
meeting market needs. All purchases from our
Chinese suppliers are made either in US or Hong
Kong Dollars. It is the Company’s policy to reduce
currency exposure by using forward foreign
exchange contracts of up to 12 months which will
normally match or exceed purchase order
commitments at any time.
The Company retains intellectual property rights in
its products and controls all sales of its products.
The year to 31 March 2003 marked a further step
towards the Company's goal of creating a
sustainable global hobby business capable of
generating consistently high levels of profit.The
achievement of a 16% return before tax on sales
(2002 - 13%) further demonstrates the benefits to
be derived from focused investment in creating
products with worldwide sales potential.
At Scalextric USA, a significant turnround has been
achieved. Sales in US Dollars grew by 26% to $4.9
million in the year to 31 March 2003. A profit before
tax of $101,000 was recorded, compared to a loss
before tax of $167,000 in the previous year.This
encouraging result confirms our commitment to
building a significant business in the USA.
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Company’s principal business is in the development and supply of Hobby and Toy
products.The Company’s two principal brands, Hornby and Scalextric, are distributed through
a network of specialist and multiple retailers throughout the UK and overseas.
Consolidated turnover for the year to 31 March 2003 was £34.1 million, an increase of 20%
over the previous year's £28.5 million.This follows two successive years of sales growth of
16% and 15% in 2002 and 2001 respectively. Profit before tax of £5.4 million was 45% above
last year's result of £3.7 million. 5
Both of our major brands, Hornby and Scalextric,
once more achieved significant sales growth during
the year. Of the Company's overall sales increase of
£5.6 million, roughly 50% was contributed by each
of the brands.
Within the brands, both Hornby locomotives and
Scalextric cars and accessories showed particularly
strong sales growth.This confirms our strategy of
applying increasing levels of detail and authenticity to
both brands. In doing so we are clearly creating
additional demand in the hobby/collector market.
The sales growth established over the past two
years has largely been achieved within traditional
channels of distribution, both in the UK and in
International markets.The growing opportunity
represented by both our major brands is now being
recognised by further major retailers.This will result
in significantly wider distribution of our products in
the pre-Christmas period 2003, again both in the UK
and overseas.These new stockists will focus primarily
on sales of Hornby and Scalextric sets. Increased
sales of sets at Christmas will in turn lead to
additional sales of cars, locomotives and accessories
as new consumers add to their collections.
As I indicated in my report last year, we recognise
that new product development is the Company's
lifeblood.We have increased our investment in 
this area, both in terms of personnel and also in
obtaining external specialist technology skills.The
fruits of these investments will be revealed during
the course of the new financial year, in the form 
of unique new product launches in both of our
major brands.
Hornby has established a substantial momentum 
in sales and profits growth over the past two 
years.The new financial year has once again 
started strongly and we remain confident about
future prospects.
Frank Martin
5 June 2003
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
