 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
2
Chairman’s Statement
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 19p.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 25p,
an increase of 47% over 17p in the previous year.
This dividend is payable to all shareholders on the
register at Friday 25 July 2003 and will be paid on
Friday 15 August 2003.
BUSINESS REVIEW
All of the Company's distribution channels, both in
the UK and Internationally, showed good year on
year sales growth across both the Hornby and
Scalextric ranges highlighting a well-balanced
business across our two brands. Growth in the
Hornby range has come primarily from the
independent retail sector in the United Kingdom and
a particularly strong performance in Scalextric was
achieved through International sales. It is also
pleasing to report that our in-store concessions
numbered 65 as at 31 March 2003, compared to 28
a year earlier.These outlets now account for an
important part of the Company's sales and profits.
The maintenance of a year round display presence in
these stores also helps to underpin the collectable
hobby nature of both Hornby and Scalextric brands.
The Harry Potter franchise makes a continuing
contribution to Hornby sales.The success we have
enjoyed with licensed merchandise encourages us to
establish other relationships and product licences for
the future. At the 2003 International Toy Fairs, held
in the first quarter of 2003, we launched a new
Micro Scalextric range based on "The Simpsons" TV
characters, which we expect to provide good
prospects for future growth.We have also secured a
licence to produce Scalextric sets and accessories
based on "The Italian Job" film release.This film has
recently been released in the USA and is due for
release in Europe this autumn, which will coincide
with the first deliveries of our Scalextric sets.
Further development of the already successful CD-Rom
based "Hornby Virtual Railway" has continued and an
all-new version will be released during the first half
of this financial year. Innovation in this fast-growing
area for technology-related products and improved
on-screen graphics have enabled us to deliver far
greater functionality and interactivity which bodes
well for further development of the hobby.
In the United States, despite a generally difficult
trading environment, it is pleasing to see Scalextric
USA back in profit. During the year the management
team has been re-structured in order to meet the
demands of this rapidly-expanding business. Our
strategy of producing products with an American
focus, including the Ford Mustang, Chevrolet Camaro
and Ford GT40 models, has improved significantly
It is pleasing, once again, to be able to report 12 months of sustained progress in your
Company. Sales, in generally challenging global trading conditions, have increased 20% to
£34.1million. Profit before tax at £5.4million is 45% above last year's result (£3.7million),
and earnings per share are up by 62% to 53.3p.
In March of this year the Company's progress was recognised at the UK PLC Awards 2002
when it won the "Company of the Year" award.This was a strong endorsement of the
strategies that we continue to implement and was a wonderful boost to morale for
everyone in the business. both our product appeal and sales performance. On
the back of this success we have been able to attract
new retailers to our brands; during the trading year
we have opened 134 active new accounts, taking the
total as at 31 March 2003 to 455.
PROPERTY
As outlined in last year's report we still hope to be in
a position to develop a new UK headquarters for
Hornby, including a "Hornby Heritage Centre" on a
site near our current Margate facility. Our application
to redevelop our existing site was referred to the
Secretary of State last year, and the planning inquiry
took place in January.We hope to learn the final
outcome of this inquiry by the autumn of 2003.
GLOBAL CONTEXT
Since the end of the financial year two major issues
have dominated global confidence; Iraq and the SARS
virus. Uncertainties surrounding the hostilities in Iraq
drew to a speedy conclusion and despite our
outsourced production facilities being located in the
People’s Republic of China, the SARS virus is having no
impact on production levels or our current or
projected trading. Our Chinese production facilities are
both modern and efficient and management there
have taken all reasonable steps to ensure that their
business and staff are protected.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
The past year has seen further development in the
success and sophistication of our product offerings
across both Hornby and Scalextric ranges.Whilst
continuing to exploit the potential of the adult
collector's market in both sectors, we have continued
to develop new products for the younger age groups
who are likely to be the Hornby and Scalextric
collectors of the future. "Bash ‘n Crash" was the
biggest selling Scalextric set in the United Kingdom in
the run-up to Christmas 2002.This was a most
encouraging performance.
In the future it remains your Company's strategy to
develop further products targeted at both adult and
toy markets across both ranges.We will continue to
ensure that the adult enthusiast's market is satisfied with
high quality, authentic detail products whilst at the same
time developing new entry points to both the Hornby
and Scalextric ranges for the younger age groups.
This balance is fundamental to our business philosophy.
As part of the programme of re-enforcing Scalextric
as the "home motorsport" for enthusiasts, we have
announced recently a strategic relationship with
another household name in motorsport, Goodwood.
Both Hornby and particularly Scalextric products will
feature at this year's Festival of Speed to be held on
11 - 13 July, and later in the year on 5 - 7 September
when Scalextric will again feature prominently at the
Goodwood Revival Motorsport meeting. I am
confident that this will further raise the profile of our
motoring heritage.
OUTLOOK
Finally, I am pleased to be able to report that,
following a most successful performance in the year
to 31 March 2003 our sales growth momentum is
now well established in both the UK and our
international target markets. I am delighted to report
that the new financial year has started well.A strong
pipeline of new product developments should ensure
the continued organic growth of the Company during
the current financial year and beyond.
I should like to thank Frank Martin our chief
executive, our directors and all our staff working on
both Hornby and Scalextric ranges for their dedicated
support and hard work.Without them, none of this
would have been possible.
Neil Johnson
5 June 2003
3
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
