 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
4
Chief Executive’s Report
Basic underlying earnings per share rose to 61.0p, an
increase of 20% on underlying earnings reported in
2003 (2003 - 50.7p).
There was a net cash outflow during the year of
£2.1 million. Cash at 31 March 2004 was £5.8
million compared to £7.9 million for the previous
year.The reduction in the year-end cash position is
due to the acquisition of Electrotren S.A. for a cash
consideration of £5.3 million on 31 March 2004.
Adding back this amount shows a like for like cash
generation of over £3 million from continuing
operations in the year.
The Company manufactures all of its products in
China, via third party contract manufacturers.
However some packing operations remain in the UK
where this strategy provides greater flexibility in
meeting market needs. All purchases from our
Chinese suppliers are made either in US or Hong
Kong Dollars. It is the Company’s policy to make
forward currency purchases to match or exceed
purchase order commitments at any time.
The Company retains intellectual property rights in
its products and controls all sales of its products.
A 17% return before tax on sales (2003 - 16%) was
achieved despite a significant increase in product
development expenditure. In my report last year I
indicated that we would be revealing important new
product initiatives during the year.These initiatives,
principally Live Steam, MotoGP , Scalextric Sport Digital
and Scalextric Sport World have been successfully
launched, although during the year only Live Steam
has contributed to sales and profits.The benefit of
the Scalextric initiatives will be felt during the new
financial year. However we believe that the benefits
that will ultimately flow from Scalextric Sport World
will take some time to be fully appreciated.The
Sport World system is designed to foster a
worldwide community of Scalextric enthusiasts, able
to communicate via a dedicated website, and able to
take part in or simply spectate at online races, with
participants drawn from around the world.
All sectors of the Company's channels of
distribution, both in the UK and Internationally, once
again showed good year-on-year growth.We have
again enjoyed significant growth in our in-store
concessions.These numbered 111 as at 31 March
2004, compared to 65 a year earlier. In every
location where we have converted a 
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Company’s principal business is the development and supply of Hobby and Toy products.
The Company’s two principal brands, Hornby and Scalextric, are distributed through a network
of specialist and multiple retailers throughout the UK and also overseas.
Consolidated turnover for the year to 31 March 2004 was £39.0 million, an increase of 14%
over the previous year’s £34.1 million.This follows two successive years of sales growth of 20%
and 16% in 2003 and 2002 respectively.
Profit before tax of £6.5 million was 20% above last year’s result of £5.4 million and represents
a four-fold increase over the profit before tax recorded for the year ended 31 March 2001. 5
conventional retail outlet to the Hornby/Scalextric
concession format, we have achieved a dramatic
increase in sales and profits both for Hornby and for
the individual retailer.Year-round availability of our
products, properly displayed and demonstrated in
prominent high-street locations is an important
factor in the continuing growth of both our 
hobby brands.
At Scalextric USA, sales in US Dollars grew by 9%
to $5.4 million in the year to 31 March 2004.This
growth was achieved against the background of a
generally weak US economy. A profit of  $128,000
was recorded, compared to $101,000 in the
previous year. Our commitment to building a larger
business in the USA continues. During the trading
year we have opened 101 new accounts in the USA,
taking the total as at 31 March 2004 to 519. From
the beginning of the new financial year, Scalextric
USA will also benefit from sales of the Hornby
range. Our decision to channel Hornby products
through our USA subsidiary has arisen in view of the
high level of interest shown in the Live Steam
product at various hobby exhibitions in the USA.
Both of our major brands, Hornby and Scalextric,
once more achieved significant sales growth during
the year.Within the brands, both Hornby
locomotives and Scalextric cars and accessories
showed particularly strong sales growth.This growth
continues to be driven by a steady stream of new
product introductions.We try to innovate with
every new product we introduce. For example the
recently launched Lister Storm car features a
removable underpan to enable users easily to
modify gear ratios, change motors and adapt their
cars in other ways for optimum performance.We
believe that this attention to the needs of the
hobbyist is helping to establish Hornby and
Scalextric as technically superior brands.
The year to 31 March 2004 saw much broader
distribution in retail channels that had not stocked
our products in recent years.This trend of expanding
distribution will continue in the new financial year, as
the growing opportunity represented by both our
major brands is recognised by further major retailers.
Our growth over the past few years has been
predominantly organic, and we believe that there
remains a substantial opportunity to continue to
build our core business. However, we have
demonstrated in our UK market that the
combination of strong brands in model railways and
slot car racing provides an exceptionally powerful
trading platform. Our acquisition of Electrotren S.A.
is the first step towards replicating this position in
other markets. Subject to the approval of the
competent Italian Court, our intended acquisition of
certain assets of Lima S.p.A. (in liquidation) will
extend our model railway business primarily into
Italy and France. However the Lima range will also
enable us to create a model railway presence in
most other European markets, as well as the USA.
The process of acquiring the Lima assets is
proceeding according to plan, and we hope to
complete this transaction before the end of 2004.
The new financial year has once again started
strongly and we remain confident about future
prospects.
Frank Martin
4 June 2004
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
