 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
2
Chairman’s Statement
PROPOSED SHARE SPLIT
It is proposed to subdivide the Company’s existing
ordinary shares of 5p each (issued and unissued)
(“Existing Ordinary Shares”) into five new ordinary
shares of 1p each (“New Ordinary Shares”).The
share split is proposed because of the Board’s belief
that the share price of the Existing Ordinary Shares,
which has risen by over 600% since the beginning of
the calendar year 2001, is now at a level that might
impair their marketability and liquidity.The Directors
believe that by lowering the price at which the
Company’s securities are traded, shareholders will
benefit from their increased marketability and
liquidity. Accordingly the Company will be seeking
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting
to be held on 22 July 2004 to implement the
subdivision. Each shareholder’s percentage holding
will not be affected and, except for the change to
the nominal value, the New Ordinary Shares will
have the same rights as the Existing Ordinary Shares.
If approved by shareholders, the share split will
become effective at close of business on 30 July 2004.
DIVIDEND
Reflecting the continued strength of the Company’s
performance your Board is recommending a final
dividend of 22p per Existing Ordinary Share.This will
bring the total dividend for the year to 30p per Existing
Ordinary Share, an increase of 20% over the 25p
declared in the previous financial year.This dividend
is payable to all shareholders on the register as at 
30 July 2004 and will be paid on 20 August 2004.
BUSINESS REVIEW
All of the Company’s distribution channels, both in the
UK and internationally, again showed good year-on-
year sales growth across both Hornby and Scalextric
ranges, underlining the well-balanced nature of our
business. Growth in our in-store concessions, which
now total 111, has exceeded expectations.This high-
visibility presence throughout the year in major retail
outlets has helped to underpin our retail growth.
As predicted in last year’s report, the introduction of
exciting new products across both Hornby and
Scalextric ranges has continued to attract both
positive comment and, more importantly, new
business. First of the new products introduced in the
summer of last year, was Hornby Live Steam.This
exciting innovation, in both engineering and conceptual
terms, has proved highly successful. In January this year
the Company was awarded the British Association
of T oy Retailers Award for “Innovative T oy of 2003”;
a distinction for a model railway locomotive! Live
Steam was available in the market place for the
Christmas season 2003 and contributed to sales and
profitability in the financial year recently ended.
Other major innovations for the Scalextric ranges
included MotoGP , Scalextric Sport Digital and
Scalextric Sport World. Sales of these products will
contribute to the current year’s earnings.
In the United States it was again pleasing to see
sales grow by 9% to $5.4 million. Pre-tax profit was
also up over 25% on the previous year.This progress
was achieved against the background of a generally
weak US economy. Our commitment to developing
the US market continues and with the advent of Live
Steam a limited range of Hornby products will also
be marketed through our US distribution channels.
I am pleased to be able to report continued encouraging progress in the past 
12 months. In global markets which remained challenging, sales increased by 
14% to £39.0 million. Profit before tax at £6.5 million is 20% above last year’s
result (£5.4 million), and basic earnings per share are up by 14% to 61.0p. EUROPEAN ACQUISITIONS
The Company’s growth in recent years, across 
both Hornby and Scalextric ranges, has been
organic.The Board believes that there exist
substantial opportunities for further broadening of
both product ranges and to continue to grow
profitability within our core hobby business.
Having consolidated Hornby’s position in the UK over
the past 3 years, the Board believed it appropriate
to explore suitable acquisition opportunities. In the
collectibles/models sector, European markets tend to
be fragmented with highly specialised operators.The
opportunity to consolidate certain parts of the
market and to apply the lessons learned by Hornby
in the UK led to the announcements earlier this year
of Hornby’s intention to expand into both the
Spanish and Italian markets. Electrotren S.A., based in
Madrid, and acquired on 31 March 2004, is a leading
company servicing the European railway modelling
sector with particular emphasis on the Spanish and
trans-European railway markets. Since acquiring
Electrotren we continue to be impressed by the
incumbent management and by the opportunities
for future growth in the business. Similarly, in Italy,
your Board believes that the potential acquisition of
certain assets of Lima S.p.A (in liquidation) will
provide Hornby with the opportunity to re-invigorate
the Lima, Jouef and Rivarossi brands and the quality
of their products. Lima has a tradition of producing
desirable European product in the railway modelling
sector. Clearly, as both opportunities develop, your
Board will consider the marketing opportunities for
our other products in these markets.
PROPERTY 
In December last year the Secretary of State refused
permission for the development of our current Margate
site as a D.I.Y. superstore. However I am happy to be
able to report that the business is not constrained
by continuing to operate from the present facilities.
GLOBAL CONTEXT
At the time of the last Annual Report it appeared
that the two major issues affecting global confidence
were in the process of becoming resolved.
With our manufacturing base in China we were
naturally concerned about the potential impact of
the SARS virus.This matter happily appears now to
be under control and we do not anticipate any
significant related issues. Despite the speedy conclusion
of the war in Iraq in 2003 the world continues to
suffer the after-effects. In particular the impact on oil
prices is a concern to all trading operations.Your
Board continues to monitor these issues closely.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
The past year has seen some significant developments
in both product ranges, as referred to earlier in this
report. Both brands continue to focus significant
resources on new product development and enhance-
ment of current product ranges.These initiatives will
continue to bear fruit during the coming year.We will
also, of course, focus on product improvement and
development in Electrotren and Lima (once acquired).
OUTLOOK
Sales growth momentum is now well established in
both the UK and our international target markets.
Trading in the new financial year has again started
well and we have a strong pipeline of new product
developments to ensure continued growth during
the current financial year and beyond. Our European
acquisitions will broaden the Company’s base of
operations and provide a platform from which to
sell more strongly in Continental European markets.
I should like once again to thank Frank Martin our chief
executive, our directors and all our staff for their
dedicated support and hard work.They can be satisfied
that their efforts have produced excellent results.
Neil Johnson
4 June 2004
3
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
