 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
6
Chief Executive’s Report
Basic underlying earnings per share, before amortisation
of goodwill, rose to 14.78p, an increase of 21%
(2004 – 12.21p) (adjusted for the five for one share
split which took place last year).
There was a net cash outflow during the year 
of £3.97 million. Cash at 31 March 2005 was £1.86
million compared to £5.81 million for the previous
year. The reduction in the year-end cash position is
due to the acquisition of certain assets of Lima S.p.A 
in Liquidation on 15 December 2004.These assets
were acquired by a newly formed, wholly owned
subsidiary of Hornby Plc, Hornby Italia s.r.l. Adding
back this amount, together with costs incurred in the
restructuring of the acquired operations shows a
like-for-like cash generation of over £2.0 million from
continuing operations in the year.
The Group manufactures all of its products in China,
via third party contract manufacturers. However some
packing operations remain in the UK where this
strategy provides greater flexibility in meeting market
needs. All purchases from our Chinese suppliers are
made either in US or Hong Kong Dollars. It is the
Company’s policy to enter into forward currency
contracts in anticipation of future purchases.The
Company retains intellectual property rights in its
products and controls all sales of its products.
A 17% return on sales (2004 – 17%) was achieved
despite an increase in fixed overheads as a result of
the acquisition of Electrotren, and costs incurred in
the acquisition of the Lima assets, together with
ongoing costs in Hornby Italia during the period
since the acquisition.
The Group’s main channels of distribution, both in
the UK and Internationally, once again showed good
year-on-year growth.We have continued to build our
portfolio of in-store concessions.These numbered
121 as at 31 March 2005, compared to 111 a year
earlier. Y ear-round availability of our products, properly
displayed and demonstrated in prominent high-street
locations is an important factor in the continuing
growth of both our hobby brands. Concessions sales
exceeded £5.0 million, compared to £3.7 million in
the previous year. At 121 outlets, it is now our intention
to focus on building year-round sales through these
outlets in the UK, whilst exploring the scope for the
extension of this successful formula into other
markets in the future.
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group’s principal business is the development and supply of Hobby and Toy products.
The Group’s two principal brands, Hornby and Scalextric, are distributed through a network 
of specialist and multiple retailers throughout the UK and overseas.
Consolidated turnover for the year to 31 March 2005 was £45.0 million, an increase of 15%
over the previous year’s £39.0 million.This follows two successive years of sales growth of 14%
and 20% in 2004 and 2003 respectively.
Profit before tax of £7.5 million, before amortisation of goodwill, was 16% above last year’s
result of £6.5 million. 7
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
Scalextric USA faced a difficult trading climate during
the year. The pressures of a weak US Dollar, coupled
with generally depressed consumer demand resulted
in a reduction in sales to $4.7 million in the year to
31 March 2005 (2004– $5.4 million). A loss before tax
of $(141,000) was recorded, compared to a profit of
$128,000 in the previous year. The result in both
years was achieved after management charges from
Hornby Hobbies Limited. It should also be noted
that in addition to the result generated in the USA 
a contribution of £575,000 arose on sales from
Hornby Hobbies Limited to Scalextric USA, thus
making Scalextric USA a net contributor to Group
profit. In the year to 31 March 2005 costs were also
incurred in the establishment and initial running
costs of our first retail store in the USA. This store,
established in a shopping mall between Seattle and
Tacoma, commenced trading in late November
2004, in time for the Thanksgiving holiday. In recent
years we have recognised that awareness of slot
racing in the USA has been limited to dedicated
hobby fans, purchasing through specialist retail
outlets.We therefore determined that, in order to
increase demand for Scalextric products we needed
to increase the exposure of Scalextric to the general
public.The mall store, trading under the name
“Scalextric RaceWorld” has made an encouraging
start. We are expecting the store to be profitable in
the current financial year.
Trading in Electrotren during its first year under
Hornby ownership was encouraging. Sales were up
by 26% to €4.0 million and a profit before interest
and tax of €822,000 was recorded.The acquisition
of Electrotren has not only brought ownership of the
Spanish brand leader in model railways, it has also
created a solid base from which to grow our share
of the Spanish slot-racing market. Most shareholders
will be aware that in Spain our slot-racing products 
are sold under the brand Superslot. For the new
financial year we have significantly increased our
marketing and sales activity in this important market.
The signing of licences to use the images of
Fernando Alonso and Sete Gibernau, the leading
Spanish driver/rider in Formula One and MotoGP
respectively on our Superslot packaging has raised the
appeal of Superslot significantly.We are targeting a
substantial increase in sales and profits to be generated
as a result of our focus on the Spanish market.
Since the acquisition of certain assets of Lima S.p.A
in Liquidation, good progress has been made in
restructuring the business to match our ongoing
needs.The response from the key markets of Italy,
France, Germany and USA has been very encouraging.
Prior to commencing production in China all the
products are undergoing a thorough engineering
review aimed at improving performance, appearance
and authenticity. In this way we are confident that we
will be able to reinvigorate the acquired brands by
delighting model railway enthusiasts with outstanding
products which represent great value for money.
Both of our existing major brands, Hornby and
Scalextric, once more achieved significant sales
growth during the year.Within the brands, Hornby
has continued to raise the bar in terms of quality
and detail, facilitating higher price points and higher
margins. In Scalextric, we believe the Sport Digital
System (SSD) will shift the market dynamics in
favour of digitally controlled racing. In doing so, as a
result of the total compatibility of SSD with other
manufacturers’ cars, we believe we will create for
Scalextric a unique and powerful market advantage
over the competition. Supporting this position, initial
deliveries of Sport World - the Internet based 
online racing system - are expected to commence 
in July 2005. The year to 31 March 2005 saw a continuation of
the broader distribution in retail channels that had
not stocked our products in recent years.This trend
of expanding distribution will once again continue in
the new financial year, as the growing opportunity
represented by both our major brands is recognised
by further major retailers.
Following 4 years of strong, predominantly UK
organic growth, our focus now turns more directly
to the expansion of our international business.The
acquisitions of Electrotren and the Lima brands and
assets, coupled with a clear strategy to grow
awareness and sales in the USA, provide a strong
platform to continue the development of Hornby Plc
into a dominant position in the world hobby market.
The new financial year has started well, and although
this should be tempered by the possibility of wider
economic pressures, the entire management and
staff of the Group is excited and enthused by the
task on hand.We have made a good start towards
achieving our objectives in this new financial year,
and we remain confident about future prospects.
Frank Martin
3 June 2005
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
8
Chief Executive’s Report continued
