 5
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
There was a net cash outflow during the year of
£1.114 million. Cash at 31 March 2006 was
£746,000 compared to £1.860 million for the
previous year. The reduction in the year-end cash
position is in part due to the acquisition of certain
assets and the goodwill of MKD SRL. These assets
were acquired by a newly formed, wholly owned
subsidiary of Hornby Plc - Hornby France SAS.
The Group manufactures all of its products in China,
via third-party contract manufacturers. However
some packing operations remain in the UK where
this strategy provides greater flexibility in meeting
market needs. All purchases from our Chinese
suppliers are made either in US or Hong Kong
Dollars. It is the Group’s policy to enter into forward
currency contracts in anticipation of future purchases.
The Group retains intellectual property rights in its
products and controls all sales of its products.
A profit before tax margin of 18.5% on sales 
(2005 - 16.9%) was achieved despite an increase in
fixed overheads as a result of a full year’s overheads
in respect of Hornby Italia and overheads in Hornby
France from 1 January 2006.
In the UK market we experienced a more difficult
trading environment than in previous years and
reduced sales in the UK resulted in the overall
reduction in sales for the Group as a whole. Sales
through major retail accounts were particularly
affected by slow consumer off-take during November
and December.
However we have continued to place emphasis on
building our portfolio of in-store concessions, where
sales increased in the year. Our concessions
numbered 116 as at 31 March 2006, compared to
121 a year earlier. This is despite the Receivership in
December 2005 of Greens Superstores Limited,
which accounted for 17 of our concessions as at 31
March 2005. As stock held in Greens concessions
was held on an agency basis, our financial exposure
to the Receivership was limited. Since the end of
the financial year we have established a concession
in Hamleys of London. We are confident that we
will see a significant uplift in turnover via the Hamleys
concession. Year-round availability of our products,
properly displayed and demonstrated in prominent
high-street locations is an important factor in the
continuing growth of our business. Despite the
Greens situation, total concessions sales totalled 
£5.4 million, an increase of 6% over the £5.1million
recorded in the previous year.
Scalextric USA achieved a positive turn-round in the
year. Sales increased to $5.1 million compared to
$4.7 million in the previous year. Despite the
Chief Executive’s Report
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group’s principal business is the development and supply of Hobby and T oy products. The Group distributes
its products through a network of specialist and multiple retailers throughout the UK and overseas. The Group
markets its products under a number of brands well known in their respective markets. These brands include
Hornby, Scalextric, Electrotren, SuperSlot, Lima, Jouef, Rivarossi and MKD.
Consolidated turnover for the year to 31 March 2006 was £44.1 million, a decrease of 2% compared to the
previous year's £45.0 million.
Profit before tax of £8.2 million, accounted for on an IFRS basis, was 8% above last year's result of £7.6 million.
Dividend for the year increased 10% to 7.7p (2005 - 7.0p).
Basic underlying earnings per share, rose to 15.64p, an increase of 4% (2005 - 15.06p).
HornbyR_REV TEXT.qxd  3/7/06  17:24  Page 5 HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
6
Chief Executive’s Report 
continued
continued effects of a weak US Dollar a profit of
$116,000 was recorded, compared to a loss of
$141,000 in the previous year. The result in both
years was achieved after management charges from
Hornby Hobbies Limited. It should also be noted
that in addition to the result generated in the USA 
a contribution of £430,000 arose on sales from
Hornby Hobbies Limited to Scalextric USA, thus
making Scalextric USA a material net contributor to
Group profit.
During the year Scalextric Race World, our retail
store, established in a shopping mall between Seattle
and Tacoma, made an encouraging start in building a
base of Scalextric hobby fans in the local area.
Overall revenues from the store were insufficient for
the store to be profitable in its own right in its first
full year of trading. However we are learning at first
hand valuable marketing lessons about the US
market. We believe that at its current level of
trading Race World represents a worthwhile
investment and subject to ongoing review we
propose to continue to support the store for the
foreseeable future.
The new financial year will see Scalextric USA
commence distribution of a selected range of
Rivarossi model railway products targeted at the 
US market. This will represent a new, incremental
source of revenue for Scalextric USA.
On 31 December 2005 we acquired certain assets
and goodwill of our French distributor MKD.
Hornby France began trading from 1 January 2006.
The acquisition gave us the opportunity to relaunch
the Jouef model railway brand through our own
subsidiary in France.
Our subsidiaries in Continental Europe made good
progress in the financial year to 31 March 2006.
Overall, sales increased by 156% to £7.5 million.
An operating profit of £453,000 was generated
compared to £341,000 in the previous year. Each of
the subsidiaries, Electrotren, Hornby Italia and
Hornby France made an operating profit. This has
been a transitional year for our operations in
Europe. We have relocated the business of Hornby
Italia to premises suitable for its continuing needs.
We have also introduced the first Rivarossi, Lima and
Jouef ranges produced in China, via Hornby Italia
and Hornby France. Each of the European
subsidiaries enters the new financial year with
excellent prospects for an improved financial
performance.
With our growing network of European distribution,
supported by continued investment in new product
development for all of our markets, the Group is
building the momentum to grow its business in
Europe significantly.
The Scalextric Sport Digital System (SSD) is
continuing to make progress in establishing itself as
the market leader in digitally controlled slot racing.
Technology sharing agreements have been entered
into with companies in Spain, Italy and Japan. Under
these agreements the companies in question are
permitted to purchase SSD chips for fitting to their
slot cars, in return for promoting the SSD concept
on their packaging and in their advertising. This
generates a profit for Hornby and also helps to
establish SSD as the worldwide standard for digital
slot car racing. Supporting this strategy, we have
introduced a lower priced entry-level set into the
SSD range.
The launch of the Hornby Digital Control system 
for model railways at the London Toy Fair in January
was extremely well received by the model trade and
press. The system uses the same basic technology 
as SSD and allows multiple locomotives and
accessories to be controlled from a single control
box. The system, which enhances significantly the
entertainment value of model railways has been
HornbyR_REV TEXT.qxd  3/7/06  17:24  Page 6 7
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
designed with ease of use in mind and is marketed
at competitive price points. Existing railway layouts
can be updated to digital control by fitting the
locomotives with chips that are separately available.
We expect large numbers of model railway
enthusiasts to convert their systems to digital control
over the coming years. We have also introduced a
number of keenly priced “starter” sets with digital
control aimed at encouraging newcomers to the
hobby of model railways to move straight into the
digital format. First deliveries of this system are
expected in September 2006.
Against the background of a challenging retail
environment in the UK, and in a year of transition in
two of our continental European subsidiaries, we are
encouraged that all trading subsidiaries were able to
report an operating profit. As we move into the
new financial year we are confident that all subsidiaries
can make further improvements in their financial
performance.
Our strategy of expansion by acquisition in Europe
has been proven to be sound. The Group is now
better placed than ever before to continue to
strengthen its position in the world hobby market.
Frank Martin
2 June 2006   
HornbyR_REV TEXT.qxd  3/7/06  17:24  Page 7
