 5
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
Chief Executive’s Report
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group’s principal business is the development and supply of Hobby and Toy products.  The Group
distributes its products through a network of specialist and multiple retailers throughout the UK and overseas.
The Group markets its products under a number of brands well known in their respective markets.  These
brands include Hornby, Scalextric, Electrotren, Lima, Jouef, Rivarossi and MKD.  During the year the brands
Heico, Airfix, Humbrol and Young Scientist were added to the Group’s portfolio.
Consolidated sales for the year to 31 March 2007 were £46.9 million, an increase of 6% compared 
to the previous year’s £44.1 million. 
Profit before tax of £8.1 million, before accounting for amortisation of intangibles and foreign exchange
translation differences on inter company loans, was 2% above last year’s result of £8.0 million (see note 1).
After accounting for amortisation and foreign exchange translation differences on inter company loans, 
which are a non-cash adjustment, pre tax profits were £7.7 million (2006 - £8.2 million).
Basic underlying earnings per share, were 14.64p, a decrease of 6% (2006 - 15.64p).
The overdraft at 31 March 2007 was £627,000
compared to £746,000 cash the previous year.  
The reduction in the year-end cash position is in
part due to the acquisition of Heico Modell (Heico)
and the acquisition of the assets of the Airfix and
Humbrol business (Airfix), which the Group has
funded from cash flow.  Total consideration for these
two acquisitions was £2.29 million plus inventory
valued at £327,000.  This contributed to a net cash
outflow during the year of £1.4 million.
The Group manufactures the majority of its products
in China, via third party contract manufacturers.
However some packing operations remain in the 
UK where this strategy provides greater flexibility in
meeting market needs. All purchases from our Chinese
suppliers are made either in US or Hong Kong
Dollars.  It is the Group’s policy to enter into forward
currency contracts in anticipation of future purchases.
The Group retains intellectual property rights in its
products and controls all sales of its products.   
A profit before tax margin of 16.3% on sales 
(2006 - 18.5%) was achieved despite the effect 
of incremental costs in relation to the integration 
of the Heico and Airfix business into the Group.
As at the half-year, sales in the UK were below the
previous year.  However we experienced a strong
recovery in consumer demand in the second half,
thus achieving full year UK sales 3% above the
previous year.  Sales via our in-store concessions
(108 at 31 March 2007 compared to 116 the
previous year) performed well.  Total concessions
sales totalled £5.8 million, an increase of 8% over 
the £5.4 million in the previous year.  This is despite
a reduction in the number of concessions as a result
of a number of the existing concessions ceasing to
trade during the year.
Scalextric USA changed its trading name to Hornby
America Inc. on 12 December 2006.  This change
was made in order to reflect more accurately the
product categories in which Hornby America now
trades, notably in response to the introduction of
model railway products, both from Hornby UK 
and Hornby Italia, via the Rivarossi brand. 
Hornby America achieved a positive trading 
result for the year.  Sales increased to $5.6 million
compared to $5.1 million in the previous year.
Despite the continued effects of a weak US 
Dollar an underlying trading profit of $82,000  HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
6
Chief Executive’s Report 
continued
was recorded, compared to a profit of $116,000 
in the previous year.  However the reported profit
before tax was reduced as a result of continued
trading losses in the trial retail store, Scalextric Race
World, located near Tacoma.  Following a two year
trial, we took the decision to close the store in
February 2007.  Trading losses for the year and
closure costs amounted to $110,000.  In the
absence of the store Hornby America profit before
tax would have been $192,000 (2006 - $180,000).
The result in both years was achieved after
management charges from Hornby Hobbies Limited.
It should also be noted that in addition to the result
generated in the USA a contribution of £450,000
arose on sales from Hornby Hobbies Limited to
Hornby America, thus making Hornby America 
a substantial net contributor to Group profit. 
I am pleased to report that Hornby America has
recently opened a trading account with a number
of mass-market retailers in the USA.  The main
product initially to be supplied is the Micro
Scalextric “Transformers” set.  This set is 
produced under licence from Hasbro Inc.
Our subsidiaries in Continental Europe made good
progress in the financial year to 31 March 2007.
Overall, sales increased by 39% to £9.7 million.  
An operating profit of £1,115,000 was generated
compared to £453,000 in the previous year.  Each 
of the subsidiaries which traded for the full year,
Hornby España, Hornby Italia and Hornby France,
made an operating profit.  This has been an
important development year for our operations 
in Europe. We now see our European subsidiaries
beginning to fulfil their potential.  We expect further
significant sales and revenue growth over the coming
years.  Our subsidiary in Germany, acquired in
September 2006 and now trading as Hornby
Deutschland made a small loss in the year.  We
expect Hornby Deutschland to grow significantly
over the next few years and to become a substantial
contributor to group profit.
In November 2006 we acquired from the receivers
of Humbrol Limited the assets of Humbrol, Airfix
and the Young Scientist brand for a consideration 
of £2.29 million plus inventory valued at £327,000.
These businesses have been successfully integrated
into the existing Hornby UK infra-structure with
relatively small increases in fixed overhead.
Production of the majority of the product range 
has now recommenced and we are experiencing
strong demand from markets around the world
which were starved of these products since
Humbrol passed into Administration in August 
2006.  We are confident that with Hornby’s product
development, distribution strength and financial
resources we can rebuild the Humbrol and Airfix
volumes significantly over the coming years. 
The Scalextric Sport Digital System (SSD) continues
to establish itself as the market leader in digitally
controlled slot racing.  Our strategy of introducing
lower priced entry-level sets into the SSD range 
has been successful in attracting new users into this
category.  Interestingly however the higher priced
digital sets sold out first in the pre-Christmas period.
This gives confidence that the consumer is willing to
pay a substantial premium for this new technology. 
First shipments of the Hornby Digital Control
system for model railways took place just before
Christmas in the form of entry-level sets.  This was
followed up in March 2007 by shipments of the
“Elite” control system.  We expect these technology
driven developments to continue to convert model
railway users to digital control over the coming
years, thus raising our average selling prices and
increasing our margins. 
Against the background of a difficult first half we are
encouraged to be able to report a strong recovery in
the UK and significant sales and profits growth in our
main overseas subsidiaries.  We expect this trend to
continue, and with the addition of incremental sales
arising from the acquisition of Humbrol and Airfix we  7
HORNBY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
are expecting a year of strong sales and profits growth
in the current financial year to 31 March 2008.
Our strategy of expansion by acquisition in Europe
has been justified further in these results.  With the
added benefit of incremental product categories in
model kits and accessories the Group continues to
strengthen its position in the world hobby market.
Frank Martin
15 June 2007   
