 Hornby > Annual Report and Accounts 2012 > Financial Highlights 3
Underlying
Profit before taxation
£4.5m +2%
2011: £4.4m
Reported
Profit before taxation
£4.0m (3%)
2011: £4.1m
 
Profit after taxation
£3.7m +15%
2011: £3.2m
 
Profit after taxation
£3.2m +11%
2011: £2.9m
 
Basic earnings per share
9.5p +14%
2011: 8.3p
 
Basic earnings per share
8.2p +9%
2011: 7.5p
Financial Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement 4
Chief Executive’s Report 5
Directors and Corporate  
Information 8
Directors’ Report 9
Corporate Governance Report 12
Directors’ Remuneration Report 20
Statement of Directors 
Responsibilities 26
Independent Auditors’ Report   
to the Members of Hornby PLC 27
Group and Company 
Statement of Comprehensive  
Income 29
Group and Company 
Balance Sheet 30
Group and Company 
Statement of Changes in Equity 31
Group and Company  
Cash Flow Statement 32
Cash Flow from Operating Activities 33
Notes to the Financial Statements 34
Notice of Annual General Meeting 68
Five Year Summary 72
Contents
Frank Martin, Chief Executive of Hornby, commented,
“Despite the  backdrop of a challenging market, Hornby is making encouraging progress.  Our ability to broaden 
our product and distribution base will enable us to mitigate to some extent any short term weakness in our 
traditional hobby sectors. We are pleased that sales of our London 2012 merchandise are gathering momentum.  
We expect this unique license opportunity to contribute positively to profits in the short term and, through the 
increased distribution that we gain as a result of our involvement with London 2012, to provide an ongoing legacy 
benefit in substantially increasing our presence in mass market retail outlets.“ Chairman’s Statement
4   Hornby > Annual Report and Accounts 2012 > Chairman’s Statement
Overview
The management team has continued to 
focus on delivering a long term business 
strategy for the Group. The aim is to be 
the most successful model, hobby and 
collectable toy company in the world. The 
year under review has not been without 
its challenges but our strategy to diversify 
our business both by product sector and 
geographical market has stood us in good 
stead. In the UK, challenging market 
conditions have constrained our sales, whilst 
in mainland Europe we have seen our sales 
grow considerably as we consolidate our 
position as an important supplier to the 
model railway markets in Continental Europe.
The Group is well positioned to benefit from 
the incremental sales that will be generated 
in the UK by the London 2012 Games and 
also to continue to grow our mainland 
European businesses. 
Corporate Governance
Good corporate governance provides a 
framework for delivering the objectives 
of the company and is fundamental to a 
sound decision making process. It supports 
executive management in achieving the 
maximum performance for the business. 
The Board will continue to focus on 
strengthening governance and compliance 
procedures. We welcomed the introduction 
of the Financial Reporting Council’s UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
and the Corporate Governance Report this 
year is structured so that we can report our 
corporate governance arrangements and 
practice against its five sections. Maintaining 
good corporate governance is a key priority 
and I am pleased to introduce our Corporate 
Governance Report setting out how we 
complied with the Code during the year. 
There have been no changes to the 
composition of the Board during the year. 
The annual evaluation of the Board has 
considered the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, knowledge of the Company, 
its diversity, including gender, how the Board 
interacts together as a unit, and considers 
that the present structure and composition 
of the Board to be effective for the size of the 
organisation.
All non-executive directors are advised of 
the likely time commitments at appointment. 
The ability of individual directors to allocate 
sufficient time to the discharge of their 
responsibilities is considered as part of the 
directors’ annual evaluation and development 
process overseen by the Chairman. The 
Board has formal and informal procedures to 
monitor its performance both as individuals 
and as a Board.
In the current uncertain economic 
environment, management of risk remains 
a key focus for the Board. The Board has 
in place a robust process for identifying 
the major risks facing the business and for 
developing appropriate policies to manage 
those risks. The Board reviews the major 
risks and any mitigating actions required on a 
bi-annual basis.
Through the Board and the Audit Committee 
we retain good visibility of the issues and 
challenges faced by management and the 
work to address them. In the year to March 
2012, for example, we have completed a 
thorough review of the Group’s policies and 
procedures to ensure compliance with the 
2010 UK Bribery Act. 
I was appointed Chairman of Hornby just 
before Christmas 2000. At that time, 
we were an overwhelmingly UK focused 
business, and although we had started to 
build supplier relationships in China, we 
still retained manufacturing activities in 
the UK. Eleven years later, Hornby has 
become a truly international company, with 
supplier operations in China and India, and 
a collection of World and European brands 
which have substantially broadened the base 
of our operations and reduced the short-
term risks associated with over reliance on a 
single market. This year, 2012, marks another 
potentially game-changing development of 
our brand ‘reach’ as Hornby products feature 
strongly in the ‘collectables’ ranges of the 
London 2012 Games.
I have much enjoyed being part of this 
transformation, particularly working with my 
Board colleagues and the talented executive 
team who have actually delivered major 
success and change. That said, I consider 
that it is now time to hand-over the Chair 
to a new pair of eyes and hands capable 
of consolidating this transformation and 
steering the business to ever greater success 
in the future. It is therefore my intention to 
stand-down from the Board not later than 
next year’s AGM. This will leave sufficient 
time for us to find a suitable successor and 
arrange the necessary transitions. In the 
coming months I will be consulting with 
major shareholders and, together with my 
Board colleagues, managing a professional 
and comprehensive selection process. I will, 
of course, keep all shareholders informed of 
any major developments in this process.
Finally, I would like to thank our Chief 
Executive Frank Martin and through him, all 
our staff, for their commitment to growing 
the business, and ensuring that future return 
to shareholders is maximised. 
Neil Johnson 
Chairman
8 June 2012
