 6   Hornby > Annual Report and Accounts 2012 > Chief Executive’s Report
Chief Executive’s Report  (continued)
UK home market continued to be difficult. 
We are now in the run-up to the London 
2012 Games and demand for our London 
2012 merchandise is growing strongly. 
We are expecting good sales performance 
over the coming months, and the expanded 
distribution base that we have opened up as 
a result of London 2012 will stand us in good 
stead to continue to develop sales beyond 
the Games. The development of the new 
Corgi “Toys” range and the launch of a range 
of products based on the rapidly growing 
license “Olly the Little White Van” will help 
to underpin our mass-market distribution 
beyond 2012.
Hornby sources the majority of its products 
in China and India, via third-party contract 
manufacturers. During the year supplies 
from the Group’s largest supplier in China 
improved considerably and additional 
sources were brought on stream. We 
continue to work closely with our largest 
supplier and expect that this relationship will 
continue to the benefit of both parties for 
many years to come.
All purchases from our Chinese suppliers are 
either in US or Hong Kong Dollars. It is the 
Group’s policy to enter into forward currency 
contracts in anticipation of purchases for up 
to 12 months in the future. The Group retains 
intellectual property rights in its products and 
controls all sales of its products.
United Kingdom
The challenging trading conditions in the 
UK resulted in full-year sales in our UK 
subsidiary being 4% below the previous 
year at £45.5 million (2011 – £47.3 million). 
Against this difficult background, underlying 
profit before tax fell to £3.4 million 
compared to £4.5 million the previous year. 
Reported profit before tax was £3.0 million 
(2011 – £4.3 million). This result includes 
export sales to third parties of £6.4 million 
(2011 – £6.5 million). 
Sales via all our channels of distribution were 
below the previous year, with the exception 
of our concessions chain and our direct 
marketing channel. The reduction in sales 
reflects weak consumer confidence generally 
and caution on the part of retailers in respect 
of inventory purchases.
Sales of Hornby model railways were broadly 
similar to the previous year. However we 
had some notable successes in terms of new 
product introductions. In particular our newly 
tooled Brighton Belle five car set launched to 
critical acclaim. In addition, our new Flying 
Scotsman locomotive followed the success in 
the previous year of the Tornado locomotive. 
Both these locomotives are built to a high 
standard of authenticity whilst achieving a 
competitive price point. We will continue 
to develop this new market sector which is 
attuned to the more challenging economic 
conditions which we face.
Sales of Scalextric were below the previous 
year as a result of lower consumer demand 
and cautious buying behaviour amongst our 
retailers. However, with the launch this year 
of our Star Wars based Scalextric range and 
the introduction of a number of products 
celebrating the 50th anniversary of the 
James Bond franchise we are confident that 
we can rebuild our Scalextric volumes. 
Sales of Airfix were slightly below the 
previous year after a number of years of good 
growth. Our Airfix product development 
programme continues apace and we expect 
our recently announced 1:48 scale military 
range to provide a strong platform for Airfix 
sales. 
Corgi sales benefitted from the London 2012 
programme and were ahead of the previous 
year. In particular, the London 2012 branded 
bus and taxi ranges were very successful and 
we expect sales of these and similar items to 
continue to grow during the current financial 
year. 
Continental Europe
Our subsidiaries in mainland Europe together 
made good progress, benefitting directly 
from the improved performance of our supply 
chain. Sales via our European subsidiaries 
in total were 21% above the previous year 
at £16.2 million (2011 – £13.4 million). Our 
subsidiaries in mainland Europe contributed 
an underlying profit before tax of £1.1 million 
compared with an underlying loss before tax 
of £42,000 in the previous year. Reported 
profit before tax was £1.0 million (2011 – loss 
£0.2 million). All our European subsidiaries 
returned a profit in the year and we are 
particularly pleased with the progress that 
has been made in Germany. 
Our strong European brands continue to 
attract increasing support from the model 
railway communities in each of our key 
territories. Across Europe in 2011/12 we 
won no less than ten separate ‘model of the 
year’ awards, receiving at least one award 
in each territory where we have a subsidiary 
company. This is an important third party 
endorsement of our strategy to build our 
presence in these markets. 
The current macro economic issues 
surrounding the euro zone continue to be a 
cause for concern. Continued weakness in 
the Euro will have a negative impact on the 
level of profit of the European business. 
America 
Sales in Hornby America were higher at 
$4.4 million (2011 – $4.2 million), producing 
a profit before tax of $83,000 (2011 – loss 
$69,000). Upon translation into Sterling, 
sales were £2.7 million (2011 – £2.7 million) 
with a profit before tax of £52,000 (2011 – 
loss £44,000). In addition Hornby Hobbies 
in the UK benefitted from a gross margin 
contribution of £411,000 (2011 – £397,000) 
generated on sales made to Hornby 
America, which has the effect of increasing 
significantly the overall contribution to Group  Hornby > Annual Report and Accounts 2012 > Chief Executive’s Report 7
profit of our US operation. Further good 
progress was made during the year in Hornby 
America in reducing working capital and 
overheads. 
Product Development
Our product development programme 
continues to be a key driver of our business. 
We continue to increase our resources in 
this area in order to cope with the additional 
demands of our subsidiaries and the increase 
in product categories. We were delighted 
that at the London toy fair in January 2012 
we were awarded three separate “Best 
New Toy” awards, for our Corgi toys range, 
our Scalextric Star Wars products and 
our London 2012 Pictogram figurines. No 
other company received as many awards. 
In addition to the ongoing development 
of our traditional hobby-based ranges we 
are working for the future on a number 
of technology based initiatives which if 
successfully executed will broaden further 
our appeal and market reach. 
Outlook
Consumer confidence in all our major 
markets continues to be weak. We will 
continue to review our overhead base in 
order where possible to align costs with 
the current environment. Our ability to 
broaden our product and distribution base 
will enable us to mitigate to some extent 
any short term weakness in our traditional 
hobby sectors. The sales of our London 2012 
merchandise are gathering momentum and 
we expect this unique license opportunity to 
contribute positively to profits in the short 
term and, through the increased distribution 
that we gain as a result of our involvement 
with London 2012, to provide an ongoing 
legacy benefit in substantially increasing our 
presence in mass market retail outlets. In 
order to benefit from this increased presence 
following London 2012 we have developed 
a number of new ranges with entry-level 
price points ranging from £2 to £9.99. The 
first of these ranges is a series of collectable 
pin-badges based on the Moshi Monsters 
license. This development arises directly from 
our experience of distributing the London 
2012 collectable pin badges. By applying this 
knowledge to the hugely successful Moshi 
Monsters license we are leveraging our 
product development expertise and securing 
continued mass market distribution. We also 
have high expectations of success for our 
range of Corgi “Toys”. This range is designed 
around the everyday vehicles that use the 
roads of the UK and indeed mainland Europe. 
There is currently a gap in the market for 
this type of collectable series and we have 
received a very positive response from our 
retail customers. First deliveries of this range 
will be in-store in September. Other ranges 
soon to reach the market include “Olly the 
Little White Van”, which is currently the 
highest rating children’s TV series on CITV. 
There is no doubt that there will continue 
to be pressure on consumer confidence for 
some time to come. However we continue 
to innovate and to seek new commercial 
opportunities in order to counter the effects 
of the macro-economic climate in which we 
are operating. 
Frank Martin 
Chief Executive
8 June 2012 Directors and Corporate Information 
8   Hornby > Annual Report and Accounts 2012 > Directors and Corporate Information 
DIRECTORS AUDITORS
N A Johnson PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
First Point 
Buckingham Gate 
Gatwick RH6 0PP
Non-Executive Chairman
F Martin
Chief Executive
A J Morris
Finance Director
SOLICITORS 
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP 
Adelaide House
N M Carrington
Non-Executive Director
London Bridge
M E Rolfe London EC4R 9HA
Non-Executive Director
COMPANY SECRETARY PRINCIPAL BANKERS
J W Stansfield Barclays Bank PLC 
9 St George’s Street 
Canterbury 
Kent CT1 2JX
REGISTERED OFFICE FINANCIAL ADVISERS AND BROKERS
Westwood 
Margate 
Kent CT9 4JX
Numis Securities Limited 
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London EC4M 7LT
COMPANY REGISTERED NUMBER REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER AGENTS
Registered in England No. 01547390 Capita Registrars Limited 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
