 04
Alternative Networks plc 
Annual report and accounts 2009 
www .alternativenetworks.com
chairman’s statement
KENNETh McGEorGE
Alternative Networks’ performance for the year 
as a whole has been very creditable, given how 
customer spending declined as the full impact 
of the economic downturn began to be felt. 
This resulted in a reduction in sales of 4%, 
from £93.7m to £89.7m. EBITDA was reduced 
from £10.8m in 2008 to £8.9m in the year.
More importantly, the business has continued 
to be strongly cash generative. Free cash flow 
actually increased year on year, and the Group 
ended the year with net funds of £8.1m, more 
than double the position of £3.2m a year earlier. 
This was after returning £3.4m of cash to 
shareholders by way of share buy-backs 
and dividends.
The strong cash position and continued high 
visibility of earnings has enabled the Board 
to increase the proposed full year dividend 
by 11% to 5.1p.
In response to the difficult market conditions, 
the Group’s management took prompt and 
sensible action. £2.5m of expected annualised 
cost savings were implemented. We retained 
most of our considerable direct sales force and 
a concerted effort was made in deriving additional 
revenues from existing customers and in keeping 
customer attrition low; and a number of significant 
new customers were signed up. In addition, the 
earlier investment in internal systems and the 
restructuring put in place in the previous year 
were well timed, as it provided the infrastructure 
to make the business leaner and more efficient, 
without detracting from the quality of service. 
All of this has enabled the Group to achieve 
its revised targets for the year, which is a tribute 
to the hard work and commitment of all staff.
Despite this environment, the Group was able 
to increase its market share, with the number of 
mobile subscribers increasing by 6% and office 
based connections up 29%. The Group’s ability 
to cross-sell its offering of services was reflected 
by a 10% increase in high spending customers 
taking three or more products. 
A  t he strong cash position and continued 
high visibility of earnings has enabled 
the Board to increase the proposed 
full year dividend by 11% to 5.1p.
A  £2.5m of expected annualised cost 
savings were implemented. we retained 
most of our considerable direct sales 
force and a concerted effort was made 
in deriving additional revenues from 
existing customers and in keeping 
customer attrition low.
A    since the year end, the group 
completed the acquisition of Aurora 
Kendrick James limited (AKJ).
Kenneth Mcgeorge NoN‑ExECuTIvE ChAIrMAN 05
Alternative Networks plc 
Annual report and accounts 2009 
www .alternativenetworks.com
Since the year end, the Group completed the 
acquisition of Aurora Kendrick James Limited 
(AKJ), whose billing software and products 
have been an important tool in maintaining high 
standards of customer service for the Group. 
Bringing AKJ in-house will protect a key part 
of the Group’s intellectual property, as well as 
creating additional sources of revenue. This has 
already been demonstrated through the signing 
of a new contract with a major network operator 
to manage the billing and customer services of 
over fifty larger customers. AKJ should also enable 
more efficient integration of future acquisitions.
The outlook for the Group is positive. Market 
conditions remain challenging but stable. 
With a strong balance sheet, a committed 
management team and a sound and proven 
strategy, we are optimistic of a favourable 
outcome for the current year. 
Kenneth Mcgeorge NoN‑ExECuTIvE ChAIrMAN
7 DECEMBEr 2009
6%
increase in mobile subscribers
29%
increase in office 
based connections 
10%
increase in high spending 
customers taking three 
or more products 
witH A stroNg 
BAlANcE sHEEt , 
A coMMittED 
MANAgEMENt tEAM 
AND A souND AND 
ProvEN strA tEgy , 
wE ArE oPtiMistic 
of A f AvourABlE 
outcoME for tHE 
currENt yEAr.
