 06
Alternative Networks plc 
Annual report and accounts 2009 
www .alternativenetworks.com
A   Free cash flow was £7.9m (2008: £7.6m) 
enabling the group to return a further 
£1.3m to shareholders during the year 
through a general share buy-back 
programme, and finished the year 
with £9.0m cash (2008: £4.2m). 
A   t he group has persistently pursued its 
twin strategy of organic and acquisitive 
growth with a stated ambition to become 
the leading converged communications 
partner of choice for the uK’s small and 
medium sized businesses.
A   However, the underlying success can be 
evidenced by the increase in the number 
of higher spending customers taking three 
or more products. the number of these 
customers has increased 10%.
A   our strategy has not wavered and, 
as we come into another year which 
offers similar economic uncertainty, 
we have a leaner platform and a stronger 
sales and service proposition than 
we did twelve months ago.
overview We are pleased to present a review of another 
successful year for the Group, albeit framed 
by a difficult economic environment. 
This has been a challenging period of trading 
for the Group, as average revenues of business 
customers have reduced as the economy has 
slowed. Due to the speed and depth of the slow 
down, particularly since January and February 2009, 
the impact of this reduction in customer spend has 
more than outweighed the impact of new customer 
wins. Moreover, the benefits of the cost-cutting 
initiatives implemented in the early spring only 
emerged in the second half. Throughout the period, 
the Group has continued to win market share and 
has generated very healthy cash returns, and the 
proposed increase in dividend reflects the Board’s 
confidence in the underlying business.
Financial results Group sales decreased by 4% to £89.7m 
(2008: £93.7m). The differing product sets’ results 
are analysed further below. Market share gains 
are being made in each product grouping, but 
these have been more than offset by revenue 
reductions due to lower customer usage, 
particularly in mobile services, and continuing 
price reductions for existing clients.
Gross profit margins are in line with expectations 
at 34.4% (2008: 35.0%), allowing for lower usage 
of higher margin revenues, due to diminished 
customer spend. Margins per product set are 
reviewed in detail below.
Adjusted operating profit of the Group reduced 
by 14% to £9.0m (2008: £10.4m). 
On a statutory basis, pre-tax profits decreased 
20% from £8.9m to £7.1m, with operating profits 
decreasing 20% from £8.8m to £7.0m.
Cash generation continues to be very strong and 
differentiates the Group from many of its peers. 
Net cash generated from operations was £10.6m 
(2008: £10.3m) which was 110% of adjusted EBITDA 
in the period (2008: 94%). Free cash flow was £7.9m 
(2008: £7.6m) enabling the Group to return a further 
£1.3m to shareholders during the year through a 
general share buy-back programme, and finished 
the year with £9.0m cash (2008: £4.2m). 
Adjusted earnings per share fell 13% and 12% in 
basic and diluted earnings respectively to 14.4p 
and 13.9p respectively. Statutory earnings per 
share fell 16% from 14.3p to 12.0p. A detailed 
reconciliation is set out overleaf in the Financial 
and Business Review. 
chieF executive OFFicer’s review
JAMEs MurrA y
JaMes Murray ChIEf ExECuTIvE offICEr 07
Alternative Networks plc 
Annual report and accounts 2009 
www .alternativenetworks.com
Briefly summarised, this was:
A  The Group has used AKJ’s software for almost ten 
years. We have invested considerable resource in 
applying it to provide customers with a bespoke, 
simple and efficient mechanism to access and control 
the billing and usage of their communications 
equipment. Bringing this software in house will protect 
the Group’s intellectual property and guarantees 
exclusivity on key elements of the software that 
are important for customer attraction and retention.
A  The acquisition will also accelerate the development 
of the Group’s customer service portal, enhancing 
the existing service offering and creating opportunities 
for new revenue streams by working with third party 
telecoms and IT services providers.
A  The acquisition provides a platform for potential new 
revenue streams working with third party telecoms and 
IT service providers. The Group intends to develop the 
portfolio of services and products that it can offer to 
European based telecoms and IT service providers, 
systems integrators, resellers and dealers, based on 
AKJ’s platform. AKJ’s current customers include over 
50 communications and IT service providers and the 
combined portfolio of services and resources of the 
Group will create the opportunity for exciting new 
revenue streams for both the Group and AKJ’s partners. 
As ever, we remain focused on acquisitions that are 
the right fit and at the right price. We are confident that 
our strong balance sheet and net cash of over £4m as 
at the balance sheet date after funding the acquisition 
above, as well as our £12m undrawn bank debt facilities, 
keeps us in a strong position in the year ahead. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 3.5p 
(2008: 3.1p), making a total of 5.1p for the year 
(2008: 4.6p), a growth of 11%, in line with our 
progressive dividend policy.
strategy 
The Group has persistently pursued its twin strategy 
of organic and acquisitive growth with a stated 
ambition to become the leading converged 
communications partner of choice for the UK’s 
small and medium sized businesses. 
ACquIsITIoNs
The Group has reviewed a number of acquisition 
opportunities during the year, especially in the 
IT and data services space. The Group entered 
into the second round in around five competitive 
tenders, withdrew interest on two and were outbid 
on the remainder, which demonstrates our refusal 
to overpay. Since the year end, on 30 October 2009, 
we acquired the entire share capital of AKJ, 
currently our billing services partner, for a maximum 
consideration of £5.5m; the initial consideration 
consisting of £3.75m cash and £0.8m through the 
issue of 707,076 ordinary shares. The AKJ group 
is based in Chatham, Kent and has approximately 
50 staff, of which 25 are IT developers. In the year 
ended 31 July 2009, AKJ increased sales by 4% to 
£3.6m, and the Group made a pre-tax profit of £0.3m 
and underlying EBITDA of £0.6m. The gross assets 
of the business were £2.3m. The acquisition is 
expected to be moderately earnings enhancing for 
the Group for the year ending 30 September 2010.
The deal is relatively small but strategically 
important for the Group. The rationale for 
the acquisition was set out in the original 
announcement on 2 November. 
“ In just over a year, Alternative Networks has helped 
us improve our effectiveness by introducing BlackBerry, 
taking over the entire mobile fleet and ultimately managing 
all Smiths Gore’s outbound voice traffic. It has helped 
us really make the most of our telecoms, and we look 
forward to continuing to work with them.” 
AT ThE ouTsET
A  Smiths Gore acquired 
Cluttons Rural Division – 
an existing Alternative 
Networks client – 
in March 2008.
A  Alternative Networks 
provided a fleet of 
BlackBerry smartphones.
A  All other voice, mobile 
and support provided 
by Smiths Gore’s 
incumbent provider.
how wE GrEw 
ThE ACCouNT
A  Proving their commitment 
to Alternative Networks, 
between April 2008 and 
April 2009, mobile and 
BlackBerry fleet grew 
by 100 connections.
A  In May 2009, all 200 
mobile and BlackBerry 
connections are ported 
to Alternative Networks.
A  Seeing the financial and 
administrative benefits of 
convergence, fixed line 
rental and all outbound 
voice is moved to 
Alternative Networks 
from BT Retail.
A  A new Mitel telephone 
system is installed in 
one Yorkshire branch, 
with Alternative Networks 
responsible for the 
implementation and its 
annual support contract.
fuTurE opporTuNITy
A  There is the potential for 
further data services in 
this crucial environment.
A  With the need for 
upgraded phone solutions 
comes the opportunity 
for both provision and 
maintenance of systems.
A  Fixed mobile convergence 
could be a real driver 
of efficiency over the 
coming years.
Smiths Gore is a leading rural property consultancy of chartered surveyors 
and property advisors. With over 160 years’ experience, they are recognised 
as a dynamic and diverse business, managing over 2m acres of land in the 
UK alone. Over the last ten years they have grown both commercially and 
organically, resulting in the opening of new offices in key locations across 
the UK. They now operate from 25 offices and 18 estate offices confirming 
their position as a market leader in the rural land and property sector.
case study – sMiths gore 08
Alternative Networks plc 
Annual report and accounts 2009 
www .alternativenetworks.com
chieF executive OFFicer’s review coNtiNuED
strategy (continued)
rEvIEw of orGANIC GrowTh f ACTors – 
upDATE oN KEy pErforMANCE INDICATors
The four key organic growth factors supporting 
our strategy remain:
foCus oN lArGEr CusToMErs 
IN sME sp ACE
The target customer in the market for the Group 
remains the business customer who spends 
between £1,000 and £10,000 per month.
The underlying success of increasing the number 
of higher spending customers is shrouded by 
the economic downturn. Over the year, there has 
been a net reduction of 25 customers spending 
over £1,000 with the total number of Group 
customers spending over £1,000 per month being 
reduced to 1,249 at 30 September 2009 from 
1,274 at 30 September 2008 (restated to eliminate 
duplication of Echo network customers). This net 
reduction has been caused by price erosion and 
decreases in traffic during the year pushing many 
customers below the £1,000 spend threshold. 
However, the underlying success can be evidenced 
by the increase in the number of higher spending 
customers taking three or more products. The 
number of these customers has increased 10% 
by 66 to 722 customers.
Cross ‑sEllING 
The Group has made solid progress in cross-selling 
the product set. Of the total customer base at 
30 September 2009, over 40% took more than 
one product (2008: 36%). 
Of all customers spending more than £1,000 per 
month, 75% (2008: 70%) took more than one 
product and, most encouragingly, 58% (2008: 50%) 
took three products or more. Mobile services are 
currently treated as one product whether data, 
voice or ancillary services.
rEDuCTIoN IN ChurN
2009 was a challenging year for reducing churn. 
Our key metric of mobile network subscriber churn 
was increased from 16.4% in 2008 to 19.7% in 
2009, as more customers switched networks in 
search of better deals, and were more discerning 
in disconnecting surplus lines as they reduced 
headcount. Nonetheless this result remains in 
the Group’s long held target band of 16–20%. 
Stripping out the increase in customers who 
switched networks but stayed with us, being 
around 1,400 connections, the network churn 
number is closer to 17%.
We also monitor customer attrition by value. 
This was much steadier and remained at a low 
level of 15% as also achieved in 2008. 
proDuCT DEvElopMENT
Our organic growth depends on widening our 
share of our customers’ communications spend 
and we rely on using our strategic partnerships to 
consistently deliver new growth opportunities.
During the past year, our suppliers have each tried 
to bring their own unified communications (“UC”) 
products to market; we have spent a lot of time with 
them establishing which ones fit into our portfolio, 
how they integrate with existing infrastructure, and 
reviewing the return on investment.
UC products launched, trialled, or evaluated include:
Supplier Product Status
Avaya One-X Launched
Mitel    Series-X, Unified  
Communicator Advanced,  
and Dynamic Extension Launched
Cable & 
Wireless FMC Trial
Vodafone One-net Evaluation
A number of SIP trunking and Hosted IP telephony 
propositions are also in trial phase.
We look forward to bringing more of these products 
to market as we continue to improve our UC offering, 
and offer deeper and more flexible integration to 
our customers.
In the data space, we launched our offering of 
Cisco products, registering as a select partner, 
and gaining the assistance of a new contracted 
partner specialising in the more advanced UC 
arena, we have won our first customer. 
Mobile communication has continued to be an 
area of vendor development:
The BlackBerry 8520 “Curve”, a lower-priced 
edition of the popular 8900 device which shares 
many of the same features, was the first device 
to feature the more robust trackpad instead of the 
trackball. This device has been a great success 
due to the challenging economic conditions, and 
has allowed us to push BlackBerry connections 
further down the food chain within our customers. 09
Alternative Networks plc 
Annual report and accounts 2009 
www .alternativenetworks.com
New improved smartphones from HTC and Nokia 
both offering mobile applications to field operators, 
combined with the impending availability of the 
Apple “i-phone” through most mobile networks, 
and the revised models of the BlackBerry “Storm” 
and “Bold” should help drive further growth in the 
number of converged devices in our customer 
base and lead to increased data revenues. 
Finally, a key focus has been on our customer 
billing and service portal, Clarity™. We launched 
a range of updates to Clarity™ our online billing, 
reporting and asset management tool. Most notably, 
we have developed the ability to separate out 
“business” from “personal” calls, and manage 
this process using a hosted database with 
automated sign off. 
The Group has planned a 24 month development 
roadmap to bring many new services through 
an Alternative Networks’ branded portal to corporate 
customers, including estate management, 
diagnostics, hosted online services, and online 
interactive customer services. The acquisition 
of AKJ is expected to help deliver these faster 
and more effectively.
business resilience
Last year we reviewed the key characteristics 
of what makes this business so resilient: firstly, 
our strong balance sheet, strong cash flow, 
and low fixed asset base. Secondly we provide 
business critical services to a diverse number 
of UK businesses in a wide variety of industries. 
Finally, there is good visibility of future revenue 
streams as customers’ contracts typically last 
at least two years. We also discussed how our 
products would help our customers save money 
in a downturn. This was within the context of the 
Group having industry leading suppliers, and 
a strong management team that has consistently 
delivered organic growth over 10 years together. 
We set some targets for modest growth in sales 
and profits.
The resilience of our business model was truly 
tested in the financial year, following a fierce 
downturn in customer spend over January and 
February 2009, which has remained flat at best 
since then. We took appropriate action:
A  We cut costs quickly to adjust to the broader 
economic conditions. Savings expected to be 
£2.5m over a full year were implemented without 
cutting too deep.
A  We set some revised targets for the business, 
based around a cost improvement plan.
A  We have continued to win new business and 
have grown market share at the underlying 
level in all our product sets, albeit somewhat 
more slowly than previously. Winning major 
new accounts like Nestor Healthcare plc and 
Parfumes Christian Dior (UK) Limited, together 
with developing multi-product accounts like the 
Welsh Ambulance Service, MacMillan Cancer 
Support, Smiths Gore and Weightman solicitors 
have helped keep revenues at close to last 
year’s levels, as well as offering more potential 
in future years.
A  We have managed to cross-sell more products 
into our existing customer base, which is expected 
to improve loyalty.
A  We improved relations with key suppliers 
and that has helped keep margins in line 
with expectations in spite of the worse mix 
of revenues due to lower voice and data 
usage charges.
A  In August 2009, we decided to invest further 
in the growth of our public sector and health 
(“Blue Lights”) teams, recruiting sales, pre-sales 
and engineering expertise.
As a result of the above, we were able to achieve 
our revised targets. Our strategy has not wavered 
and, as we come into another year which offers 
similar economic uncertainty, we have a leaner 
platform and a stronger sales and service 
proposition than we did twelve months ago. 
outlooK
Since the year end, we have acquired AKJ, 
which has sound strategic purpose, and we 
have won a multi-million pound contract from 
a major network operator to service 50 of their 
high spending SME customers. Both are 
contributing well to Group revenues.
We remain cautious in respect of our prospects 
of returning to rapid organic growth. This is due 
to the continued threat of a possible further dip in 
spending by existing customers, and is dependent 
on the recovery of the UK economy. However, in the 
longer term, as we move out of recession, we will 
have an opportunity to grow revenues more quickly. 
We anticipate this may be accompanied by further 
acquisitions offering complementary services to 
our existing products. We therefore remain excited 
over the prospects for future growth.
JaMes Murray ChIEf ExECuTIvE offICEr
7 DECEMBEr 2009
