 annual report and 
accounts 2010
 04
Chairman’s Statement
Tony Caplin
Alternative Networks’ performance this year has been impressive 
and I thank all our employees for their continued commitment. Sales 
grew by 7%, but an increase in operating margins saw a 25% rise in 
EBITDA, from £8.9m to £11.2m. On a like for like basis, revenues 
were up 4% and Telephony Services, being fixed line and mobile, 
recorded 7% organic growth.
Cash generation has continued to be very strong. Cash inflow from 
operations was £13.6m, representing 112% of adjusted EBITDA. 
Free cash flow was £10.9m, compared with £7.9m in 2009, and the 
Group ended the year with cash of £12.0m, 34% higher than a year 
previously. Given that £4.3m of cash was spent on the AKJ 
acquisition, and £4.1m of cash was also returned to shareholders 
by way of dividends and share buy-backs, this underlines the 
strength of the Group’s performance.
The strong cash position and confidence in the momentum of the 
business has enabled the Board to increase the proposed final 
dividend by 17% to 4.1p, making a total for the year of 9.1p, including 
a special dividend of 3.0p per share. Excluding the special dividend, 
the total dividend for the year was 6.1p, an increase of 20% over 2009,  
in line with our progressive dividend policy.
In addition to the strong financial performance, Alternative Networks also made 
significant progress in its strategy of transforming itself from a traditional fixed and 
mobile telephony reseller into a leading mobile systems and data integrator. T wo 
strategic acquisitions were completed in less than a year to support this objective. 
The first, AKJ, allowed the Group to accelerate the development of a customer 
portal to support converged services, as well as a market leading integrated 
billing platform. The portal is web-based and converges billing, reporting, 
ordering and support. The service was launched in October 2010, ahead 
of schedule, and has already delivered tangible efficiency benefits both to 
ourselves and to our clients. We believe this is unique in the market and it is 
a key component in delivering the highest levels of customer service and it 
will underpin our drive to achieve greater levels of cross selling. 
The second acquisition, which was completed since the year end, was of 
Scalable Communications plc (Scalable), an IP networks integrator. Scalable 
will rapidly enable the Group to fulfil its objective of delivering converged voice 
and data products in a market where telephony is increasingly based on IP .  annual report and 
accounts 2010
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
05
Cross selling is a fundamental part of the Group’s strategy to deliver 
long-term growth. The Group has steadily increased the number of 
customers taking at least three services. 59% of our larger customers 
now take three or more services. Two years ago, the proportion of 
such customers was only 44%. Moreover, our customer profile is 
evolving as we increasingly target larger companies in the small 
and medium enterprises (SME) space, resulting in higher spend per 
customer. The Group has pursued a considered and highly effective 
strategy of organic growth combined with strategic acquisitions. Further 
acquisition opportunities are being sought, but they have to meet the 
Group’s strict criteria and complement our existing product base.
The outlook for the Group continues to be positive. The strategic 
initiatives put in place by the management team have created a 
strong platform, meaning the Group is well placed to capitalise on 
the fast moving business communications market of today. Market 
conditions, whilst still challenging, have stabilised and demand for 
the Group’s converged product base, which has been enhanced 
by the acquisitions that have been made, is growing. We therefore 
look forward to a continued period of success and to delivering 
long-term growth for our shareholders. 
Tony Caplin
Non-executive Chairman
3 December 2010
Tony Caplin
Non-executive Chairman
The Group is 
well placed to 
capitalise on the 
fast moving business 
communications 
market of today.
In addition to the strong financial 
performance, Alternative Networks 
also made significant progress 
in its strategy of transforming itself 
from a traditional fixed and mobile 
telephony reseller into a leading 
mobile systems and data integrator.
59% of our larger customers now 
take three or more services. This 
is up 15% from two years ago.
Our customer profile is evolving as we 
increasingly target larger companies 
in the SME space, resulting in higher 
spend per customer.
