 annual report and 
accounts 2010
 06
Overview
This has been an excellent year on a number of fronts.
Firstly, we have delivered record results for the Group, with the 
highest recorded sales, profits, cash levels and dividends in our 
16 year history. The return to organic top line growth in a market 
where our peers generally recorded further declines in revenues 
was especially pleasing as a validation of our strategy, our 
success in cross selling and our employees’ commitment 
through a difficult period.
Secondly, the acquisition of AKJ performed ahead of expectations. 
The development of the Group’s portal is on target and this strategic 
acquisition has opened up new potential revenue streams for the 
Group, as evidenced by two significant deals recently signed and 
detailed below.
Finally, we finished the year securing the acquisition of Scalable, 
which is the right fit data acquisition we have looked to deliver and 
which gives us a strong platform on which to offer a fully converged 
mobile, systems and data suite of products to our core market and 
to allow us to target larger enterprises.
Financial results
Group sales increased 7% to £96.2m (2009: £89.7m). The differing product sets’ 
results are analysed further below. AKJ has contributed £3.1m of revenue in the 
eleven months since acquisition. Group sales increased 4% on a like for like basis. 
Gross profit margins have increased to 35.8% (2009: 35.0%). AKJ, with their higher 
margin product portfolio, has contributed to this rise. Underlying margins have 
held firm and margins per product set are reviewed in more detail below.
Adjusted operating profits of the Group increased by 28% to £11.5m (2009: £9.0m). 
Share option costs increased to £1.0m (2009: £0.6m) due to an amendment to 
the 2008 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP), the introduction of the 2010 LTIP and 
provisions made for related taxes.
On a statutory basis, pre-tax profits increased 30% from £7.1m to £9.2m, 
with operating profits also increasing by 30% from £7.0m to £9.1m.
Cash generation continues to be very strong. Net cash generated from operations 
was £13.6m (2009: £10.6m) which was 112% of adjusted EBITDA in the period 
(2009: 110%). Free cash flow was £10.9m (2009: £7.9m), enabling the Group to 
return a further £0.4m to shareholders during the year through a general share 
buy-back programme and end the year with £12.0m cash (2009: £9.0m). 
Adjusted earnings per share increased 25% and 20% in basic and diluted 
earnings to 18.0p and 16.7p respectively. Statutory earnings per share rose 
31% from 12.0p to 15.7p. A detailed reconciliation is set out below in the 
Financial and Business Review. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 4.1p (2009: 3.5p), making a total 
of 9.1p for the year (2009: 5.1p), in line with our progressive dividend policy. 
The current year includes a special 3.0p dividend paid out to shareholders. 
Excluding the special dividend, total dividends increased by 1.0p to 6.1p.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
James Murray  annual report and 
accounts 2010
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
07
Strategy 
The Group has continued its successful twin strategy of organic and 
acquisitive growth to become the preferred converged communications 
partner of choice for the UK’s SME business market.
Acquisitions
Since 30 September 2009, the Group has made two acquisitions 
less than twelve months apart. 
1. Acquisition of Aurora Kendrick James Limited 
(AKJ)
On 30 October 2009, we acquired the entire share capital of AKJ, our 
billing services partner, for a maximum consideration of £5.50m; the 
initial consideration consisting of £3.75m cash and £0.80m through 
the issue of 707,076 ordinary shares. The deferred consideration 
was a maximum of £0.95m and this was agreed in August 2010 to 
be settled at £0.66m, meaning a final total consideration of £5.21m. 
The early settlement of the earn-out has permitted accelerated 
development of the portal.
The AKJ group is based in Chatham, Kent and employed approximately 50 staff 
on acquisition, of which 25 were IT developers. In the year ended 31 July 2009, 
AKJ increased sales by 4% to £3.6m and the group made a pre-tax profit of 
£0.3m and underlying EBITDA of £0.6m. AKJ’s results for the eleven months 
ended 30 September are set out further below.
The deal was relatively small but nonetheless strategically important for the 
Group. The rationale for the acquisition was threefold: 
•  principally to accelerate development of the Group’s portal, which has since 
been launched on 18 October 2010; 
•  secondly, to secure and build on the exclusive use and development 
of a market leading billing solution; and finally
•  to expand their business by targeting larger customers and by exploiting AKJ’s 
relationships with its 75 customers to promote additional services to them. 
Since the year end, AKJ has delivered two important new contracts to the 
Group. The first is for the management of approximately 2,000 mobiles for 
RSM T enon. The services include enhanced billing reporting services as well 
as ordinary services. The second is an exciting new billing and provisioning 
services contract with a major mobile network operator, worth an estimated 
£0.4m in the first year and over £1.0m in total, relating to their fixed line services 
and the provisioning of WLR3 connections to BT Openreach.
James Murray 
Chief Executive Officer
The Group has continued 
its successful twin strategy of 
organic and acquisitive growth 
to become the preferred converged 
communications partner of choice 
for the UK’s SME business market.
The acquisition of Scalable is key 
to the Group’s plans to deliver 
converged voice and data 
products in an IP world.
The group continues to expand its 
product range to enable it to take a 
wider share of its customers’ spend 
on communications and providing 
a wider range of products with 
which to engage new customers.
We successfully launched the portal 
in October 2010 to converge billing, 
reporting, ordering and support.
We have delivered 
record results for  
the Group, with the 
highest recorded  
sales, profits, cash 
levels and dividends  
in our 16 year history. annual report and 
accounts 2010
 08
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
Acquisitions continued
2. Acquisition of Scalable
On 2 October 2010 we announced the acquisition of Scalable 
for approximately £10.0m. The consideration was £7.5m cash, 
with up to £4.0m deferred based on performance in the two years 
to 31 December 2011. If Scalable was to achieve its own target, 
delivering compound annual growth of EBITDA over two years 
of 40%, the estimated deferred consideration would be £2.5m. 
The first £1.0m of the deferred element is to be paid in shares.
Scalable is an IP networks integrator based in Buckinghamshire 
and London. With just over 50 staff, it is a major partner of Juniper, 
Extreme, Mitel and F5 and targets the larger SME and enterprise 
business customers. It consults, builds, installs and maintains IP 
configured voice and data networks, also supplying security and 
a number of other bespoke solutions. Typical clients include 
Charles Russell, Liverpool Women’s NHS Foundation Trust, 
Fulham Football Club, and it has recently won significant 
accounts with Carillion and Freshfields. It operates directly 
with clients and also with system integrators and has recently 
invested in a modern Network Operating Centre (NOC) in its head office, 
so it can constantly monitor and support its customers remotely.
In the year to 31 December 2009, Scalable reported revenues of £12.5m and 
EBITDA of £0.9m. Gross assets at 31 December 2009 were £5.6m. On acquisition, 
management were expecting revenues to grow to £15.0m and EBITDA to 
increase to £1.4m for the year to 31 December 2010. 
The acquisition of Scalable is key to the Group’s plans to deliver converged 
voice and data products in an IP world. Scalable already understands the needs 
of the Group’s larger customers and are experienced in delivering converged 
solutions. Critically, as traditional telephony products migrate to Session 
Initiated Protocol (SIP), Scalable’s is already a leading player in those products.
The acquisition brings enormous opportunities to cross sell as there is limited existing 
cross over in both Scalable and Alternative’s larger client lists and product sets. 
 
The Group continues proactively to monitor the market looking for further 
acquisitions that have the right fit. Our criteria remain that targets need to be 
successful, growing and profitable and have similar sets of customers to the 
Group. Further bolt-on acquisitions to complement the existing products are 
being considered, as well as targeting businesses in adjacent product sets. 
Organic growth 
Review of organic growth factors – 
update on key performance indicators
The four key organic growth factors supporting our strategy remain:
Focus on larger customers in SME space
We continue to target the mid enterprise market, particularly those customers 
with multi-sites and employees ranging from 80 to 1,000. 
At 30 September 2010, there were 1,249 customers with spends over £1,000 
per month. This is the same as at 30 September 2009. However, the average 
spends of these customers is increasing as more products are added and 
larger customers replace smaller ones in this category. The average spends 
of these customers increased 5% to £4,765 per month in September 2010 
from £4,535 in September 2009.
Scalable’s Network Operations Centre (NOC) annual report and 
accounts 2010
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
09
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
At 30 September 2010, the number of higher spending business 
customers who take more than three products from the Group 
increased to 734 from 722 at 30 September 2009, representing 59% 
of the larger client base (2009: 58%). These customers’ average 
spend increased 6% to £5,506 per month in September 2010 from 
£5,180 in September 2009.
Key customers are highlighted in the products results sections.
Channel 4 and BPP are good examples of clients which have been 
with either Alternative or Echo for some time and have significantly 
increased the number of services they take from us in 2010. In 
Channel 4’s case, they have been a longstanding fixed and mobile 
services client and we have added IP PBX. and support. BPP was an 
Echo maintenance client and we have added outbound services, more 
support revenues and delivered new IP hardware solutions. 
The success of cross selling products into our existing smaller 
customers so that smaller customers become larger ones, can also 
be measured as below.
Cross selling 
A key part of our organic growth strategy remains to sell more products to 
new and existing customers. During the period we have had further success 
substantially increasing the product penetration in our customer base. The 
number of customers taking more than one product is 46% (up from 40% in 
September 2009). This has been helped by the number of multi-product new 
customers. In the larger customer base (i.e. those spending over £1,000) we 
have seen a continued increase in product penetration, with the number of large 
customers buying more than one product up to 78% (75% in September 2009). 
Reduction in churn
The Group has continued to experience low churn levels across all products 
(mobile churn is covered separately below). Unsurprisingly, churn remains lower 
in customers who take more than one product and are users of the Alternative 
Portal (see overleaf).
Product development
The Group continues to expand its product range to enable it to take a wider 
share of its customers spend on communications and to provide a wider range 
of products with which to engage new customers. Summarised below are the 
major developments in each product group in the year:
•  Mobile: The year saw the launch of Android handsets from HTC and Samsung. 
We also welcomed the BlackBerry Bold 9700 and, more recently, the touch 
screen Torch 9800, which is the first of a new range of handsets featuring 
BlackBerry operating system version 6. These were supported by a BlackBerry 
Enterprise Server Express product, which was a cheaper function-lite product, 
and also the new BlackBerry Advantage premium support package.
•  Fixed line voice: Alternative launched a business-grade SIP Trunking service, 
providing an IP business grade product alternative to ISDN, for the larger 
customer. Our service provides quality and security through ensuring that all 
aspects of customer hardware, connectivity and numbering are compatible 
and supplying additional hardware and bespoke services where required.
  We continued to develop our traditional voice products by migrating our analogue 
line rental customers to the WLR3 product. This was easily facilitated by AKJ 
who is a BT Openreach Third Party Integrator. Our ISDN migration to WLR3 
will be complete early in the new year 2011. These developments provide us 
with access to a wider range of “equivalent” products from BT Openreach, 
including resilience solutions and temporary lines.
Case study – Firmdale Hotels
Award-winning Firmdale Hotels is one of the 
most innovative and respected boutique 
hotel operators in the UK. Its six London 
hotels, as well as Crosby Street in New York, 
showcase Firmdale Hotels’ uncompromising 
approach to quality, commitment to 
excellence and putting customers first.
At the outset
Firmdale wanted the ability to constantly 
improve upon the level of service and 
quality they gave to their customers. 
They also wanted to link their hotels 
and head office to make it simple to 
contact all members of staff at all times. 
Initially Alternative migrated all sites to 
a Mitel 3300 IP based system, improving 
service, contactability and making inter-site 
calls, even for the New York site, free.
How Alternative grew the account
Alternative now manage and supply the 
Group’s mobile fleet using both O
2
 and 
Vodafone networks. We also developed 
the SIP integration to the call logging and 
voicemail application, which simplified the 
line connection and reduced running costs. 
By upgrading the operator consoles for IP 
versions, we dramatically improved efficiency 
and provided a flexible environment for the 
front desk/concierge functions. 
Summary
Firmdale now enjoys zero call costs 
when calling inter hotel and can identify 
the internal caller before answering the 
call. We have moved them from digital 
to IP and have reduced the amount of 
hardware and associated floor space within 
the communications area of each hotel, 
which in turn has reduced running costs. annual report and 
accounts 2010
 10
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
Organic growth continued
Review of organic growth factors – 
update on key performance indicators continued
Product development continued
•  Advanced solutions: The Group continued to strengthen its connectivity 
portfolio by launching corporate Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and 
high speed data connections from Opal (part of the TalkTalk Group). These 
utilise unbundled broadband and Ethernet to deliver a competitive advantage 
over traditional forms of connectivity.
  We also gained accreditation to install and support Trapeze (recently acquired 
by Juniper) wi-fi networks. This allows us to deploy secure, voice-quality 
wireless coverage, asset tracking and radio frequency firewalls.
Summarised below is the product 
development expected over the next six months: 
•  Mobile : Alternative was one of the first wave of Vodafone Service Providers 
to have been accredited since our year end to sell the Apple iPhone, further 
widening our choice of smartphones, associated applications and opportunities 
to converge mobile and fixed line.
  We also look forward to launching a range of handsets utilising the new 
Windows 7 Mobile operating system and expanding our Android range 
into a new category with the Samsung Galaxy S tablet.
•  Advanced solutions: We plan to launch Power NGN Plus, a cloud-based 
service from Exponential-e, which gives our clients the ability to analyse and 
control traffic types on business grade internet connections. The service will 
also be effective in preventing illegal file sharing over the corporate network 
in accordance with the emerging Digital Economies Act. 
  Also in development is Alternative Backup (backup as a service) which is an 
online server backup service to SME businesses. This can also be bespoke 
and can offer larger customers a managed backup service, removing many 
of the capital costs and management overhead of an alternative (e.g. tape 
based) backup system. 
  We continue to develop our deployment of both Avaya and Mitel PBX and 
associated applications in a virtualised environment. The Group is now in the 
VMware partner programme and as such is formalising the skills we already 
have in this area.
Your Alternative Portal
We successfully launched the portal in October 2010. This established our 
unique web-based portal that will converge billing, reporting, ordering and support. 
The portal is being developed in-house by Group developers, including several 
drawn from AKJ. The first launch has already delivered efficiency benefits to 
both clients and the Group. This included the launch of online fault reporting 
across all product lines and a new design to rehouse the existing “Clarity
TM
” 
application. This will provide a new central hub on which future services will 
be accessible.
The monthly rate of new subscriptions to the portal has increased by 400%, 
as we attracted new users from within the existing base, i.e. clients who only 
had the Advanced Solutions products and had not previously needed to use 
the application.  annual report and 
accounts 2010
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
11
We have assembled a client focus group to help guide and prioritise 
the development of your Alternative Portal. This is made up of 100 key 
and strategic clients, including Swinton Insurance, Macmillan Cancer Care 
and Computer 2000. Using feedback from this group we have formulated 
the next six months’ development plan. 
Key deliverables for the portal for the next nine months are:
•  a new suite of asset management functionality which will make it simple 
for clients to track and manage all of their assets (either with Alternative 
or another supplier) – this will encourage further usage of the portal and 
generate cross sell opportunities;
•  enhancements to the fault reporting service, showing case updates 
and allowing client interaction;
•   allowing clients to place orders and track their progress online;
•  provide full control of the mobile fleet, allowing clients to activate new 
connections, international roaming and add/remove bars; 
•  new reporting to show trends and usage visually and bespoke reports 
to further help clients to control cost; and
•  the new infrastructure will improve marketing to specific clients within the 
portal, based on criteria such as products taken, size and usage patterns.
Outlook
We remain cautiously optimistic for further growth in the year ahead. Scalable 
has traded positively, ahead of target, since acquisition. AKJ has started the 
year well and, most importantly, in our core business we are well set with established 
and experienced sales and operations teams who continue to sell and deliver 
an expanded converged suite of communications products into new and 
existing customers. We are investing nearly £2.0m in developing our sales 
resources and in building the customer portal, to further underpin organic 
growth in the medium term.
Our customers have generally weathered the recession 
well and whilst customer spend has remained relatively 
flat, we hope to see signs of renewed economic 
confidence later in 2011. The market is consolidating 
at a pace, but there remain opportunities for successful 
bolt-on acquisitions across all our core product sets.
James Murray
Chief Executive Officer
3 December 2010
