 REv IEW OF ThE YEAR
  04
annual report and accounts 2011
ChAIrMAn’S St AteMent
tony Caplin
Non-executive Chairman
The current financial year has begun well and 
the group is performing in line with expectations. 
We are now penetrating a larger proportion of the 
market, through offering a greater range of services 
to a broader base of customers. 
Altern Ative n et Works 
hAS Cont InUeD to P er For M 
strongly, mAint Aining 
t He momentum o F t He 
Prev IoUS YeAr.
Results
Alternative Networks has continued to perform 
strongly, maintaining the momentum of the 
previous year. Turnover has increased by 22% 
to £117.3m (2010: £96.2m), with underlying 
organic growth of 4%. Operating margins grew 
slightly from 12.0% to 12.4%, enabling the 
group to report adjusted EBITDA of £15.4m, an  
increase of 27% year on year (2010: £12.1m).
the group continues to be strongly cash 
generative, with cash inflow of £15.4m (2010: 
£13.6m), representing a 100% conversion of 
adjusted EBITDA (2010: 112%), maintaining 
its strong financial position. Net cash at 
30 September 2011 was £10.9m, slightly 
lower than at the end of the previous financial 
year (2010: £11.1m). A creditable result given 
this is after the payment of £9.5m for the 
purchase of scalable.
The group’s continued growth and financial 
strength has enabled the Board to declare 
a final dividend of 7p per share, making a 
total dividend for the year of 10p per share. 
Excluding the special dividend of 3p paid in 
the previous year, this represents a year on 
year increase of 64% in real terms, further 
evidence of the group’s ability to generate 
excellent returns for all shareholders.
Market share
given the tough market conditions, we 
are pleased with these impressive results. 
The executive management’s steadfast 
determination to implement a coherent 
growth strategy is clearly working.  annual report and accounts 2011
05
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
Not only has it delivered a strong financial 
performance, but the team’s well respected 
experience, industry expertise and commercial 
acumen have enabled the group to increase 
market share. the group’s mobile subscriber 
base grew by 10% to 68,207 (2010: 62,136), 
fixed lines and channels were up 9% to 87,237 
(2010: 79,862) and Advanced Solutions 
revenues increased by 14% to £18.2m 
(excluding the contribution of Scalable). 
this is supported by the group’s success 
in cross selling its products which in this 
period has increased the proportion of 
customers taking more than one product to 
47% (2010: 46%) and, in the larger customer 
base, 78% of customers are buying more 
than one product. the growth in market 
share is a notable achievement in this market 
and in such times.
Acquisitions
the management team has demonstrated 
its ability to identify, negotiate, execute and 
integrate value adding acquisitions that fit 
well within the group, complement organic 
growth and strengthen its market position. 
this strategy has created a powerful platform 
of systems (Echo), billing and software (AKJ) 
and data and IT services (Scalable), which 
demonstrates ours is not an indiscriminate 
buy and build strategy. We have a considered 
low risk approach to inorganic growth; the 
emphasis is on the addition of reasonably 
priced businesses to the group which can 
be fully integrated and improve the business 
as a whole, in terms of growth potential, 
flexibility and resilience.
the most recent acquisition, scalable, at 
the very start of the reported financial year, 
is the best example to date. Scalable has 
performed beyond our initial expectations 
and has transformed the business, 
accelerating the group’s ability to offer the 
full range of telephony and data solutions. 
Scalable delivered an adjusted EBITDA 
of £1.7m on sales of £20.5m, with 160% 
cash conversion.
The acquisition of AKJ, in 2009, has also been 
a key factor behind the group’s increasingly 
multi-faceted offering, providing a further 
platform for growth and again making the 
group more resilient to market conditions. 
AKJ achieved sales of £3.7m, which, on a 
like for like basis, represents 9% annual 
growth. however, in addition to its financial 
contribution, AKJ has also focused on the 
development of “Your Alternative Portal”. 
the portal was successfully launched in 2011 
and has delivered significantly increased 
functionality, visibility and accountability 
to customers, with in-house engineer and 
software capability a key differentiator. Over 
95% of our customers now have access to 
the portal and over 80% use it every month. 
This is a further example of a service that 
enhances cross selling and also improves 
customer retention.
We will continue with our strategy of only 
considering acquisitions that match our 
stringent criteria of price, business fit and 
ease of integration. several prospects are 
being assessed and the tough market 
conditions may also give rise to additional 
opportunities, as smaller businesses conclude 
they will perform better as part of a larger group.
Current trading and outlook
The current financial year has begun well 
and the group is performing in line with 
expectations. The steps taken over the 
last two years have made the business 
significantly more flexible and resilient. 
We are now penetrating a larger proportion 
of the market, through offering a greater 
range of services to a broader base of 
customers. By being able to focus on different 
parts of the market in response to changing 
conditions, in terms of service and customer 
profile, the group can be more nimble 
in targeting growth in a stagnant or 
contracting economy. 
In spite of the difficult market conditions 
and the increasingly gloomy macro-economic 
prognosis, we believe the group is better 
placed than most businesses to withstand 
these challenges. Our confidence is based 
on the group’s unique combination of a 
complementary and comprehensive set 
of telephony and data services, a highly 
experienced and respected management 
team, a strong balance sheet and a 
cash-generative business model. We look 
forward to continued success and to delivering 
growth in market share, earnings and 
shareholder returns.
Tony Caplin
Non-executive Chairman
5 December 2011
