 REv IEW OF ThE YEAR
  06
annual report and accounts 2011
ChIeF exeCUtIve oFFICer’S revIeW
Overview
This has been another excellent year on a 
number of fronts. Continuing the momentum 
of a successful 2010, we have again delivered 
record results for the group in 2011, with the 
highest recorded sales, adjusted profits, 
operating cash receipts and dividends in 
our history.
group results highlights include:
 – Revenues increase of 22% to £117.3m. 
 – Underlying organic revenue growth of 4%.
 – successful acquisition of scalable on 
2 October 2010 for an estimated £10m:
 –  impressive growth performance at 
scalable which recorded results of 
£20.5m sales, £7.1m gross profits and 
adjusted EBITDA of £1.7m, with 160% 
cash conversion.
 – Continued gains in market share:
  –    Mobile subscribers increased 10% 
to 68,207 (2010: 62,136).
  –    Fixed line customers’ lines/channels 
increased 9% to 87,327 (2010: 79,862). 
  –    Advanced solution revenues were up 
14% to £18.2m excluding Scalable.
 –   Improving profitability: 
  –    gross margins up from 35.8% to 
39.0%, excluding Scalable, and 
38.1% with Scalable. 
  –    group adjusted operating profit margins 
up from 12.0% to 12.4%.
We HAve DelivereD recor D 
results in 2011, W it H t He 
HigHest recor DeD sAles, 
ADjUSte D Pro FIt S, oPer At Ing 
CASh re CeIPt S AnD DIvIDenDS 
in our History james Murray
Chief Executive Officer
This has been an excellent period of trading for 
the group, with headline figures showing group 
revenues up 22% and adjusted operating profits 
increased 26%. This result has been supported by 
the acquisition of scalable, which has been a very 
good fit strategically and has performed well ahead 
of  our initial expectations. The group’s business mix 
has been transformed with approximately one-third of 
its gross profits now coming from the Advanced 
solutions data and voice integration business. annual report and accounts 2011
07
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
07
 –   Strong balance sheet and excellent 
cash generation:
  –    Free cash flow of £11.4m (2010: £10.9m).
  –    Strong cash conversion at 100% adjusted 
EBITDA (2010: 112%).
  –    Net cash funds of £10.9m at 30 September 
(2010: £11.1m).
 – improved shareholder returns:
 –  Final dividend of 7p per share proposed. 
Together with the interim dividend of 3p, 
this equates to a total dividend for the 
year of 10p (2010: 9.1p, which included 
a special dividend of 3p). If the special 
dividend of 2010 is stripped out, the 
dividend increased by 3.9p or 64%.
  –    Progressive dividend policy maintained 
with a minimum 10% dividend growth 
proposed for 2012 and 2013.
the acquisition of scalable and the broad 
spread of the group’s product, specifically 
a large mobility expertise to complement 
fixed line telephony, gives the group greater 
opportunities to grow organically. this is 
partly through access to more and larger 
customers, but also because the group 
has more solutions to cross sell to its core 
sME and enterprise customers. 
Financial results
this year has a material contribution from 
Scalable for the first time, following its 
acquisition on 2 October 2010. We have 
set out the summary contribution in the 
table above. 
This has been an excellent period of trading 
for the group, with headline figures showing 
group revenues up 22% and adjusted operating  
profits increased 26%. This result has been 
supported by the acquisition of scalable, 
which has been a very good fit strategically 
and has performed well ahead of our initial 
expectations. The group’s business mix has 
been transformed with approximately one-third 
of its gross profits now coming from the 
Advanced Solutions data and voice integration 
business (including billing services), with a 
similar amount coming from each of Fixed 
line and mobile telephony services.
At the underlying level, the group generated 
estimated like for like (i.e. organic) revenue 
growth of 4%. This is estimated by excluding 
the impact of AKJ only having eleven months’ 
contribution in 2010; the loss of mobile revenues 
in 2011 from the networks due to the change 
in commercial arrangements; the loss of mobile 
revenue in 2011 due to EU regulation (call 
capping) of SMS and data revenues; and 
the loss of Fixed line revenues due to the 
Ofcom changes to mobile termination rates. 
Excluding Scalable, gross profits and operating 
profits were both significantly up on 2010 due to 
higher gross margins and improved economies 
of scale. 
gross profit margins have increased to 38% 
(2010: 36%). The key reason was the increase 
in telephony margins, both Fixed line and  
mobile. in mobile, the change in supplier 
terms in January 2011 was the main factor 
and in Fixed line, the increased margins on 
minutes have helped bolster performance. 
Margins per product set are reviewed in more 
detail below.
group adjusted operating profits increased 
by 26% to £14.6m (2010: £11.5m). Scalable’s 
contribution was £1.7m, after group recharges. 
scalable’s operating margins were lower due 
to increasing headcount and a step up in the 
related operating costs of the business to 
support the continuing growth.
On a statutory basis, pre-tax profits increased 
1% from £9.2m to £9.4m. The reason for the 
apparent disparity between the statutory 
performance and the adjusted performance 
is the £5.2m exceptional (see Note 2 and 31) 
items, increased from £2.4m in 2010. The 
main adjustment is the £1.8m deferred 
consideration for Scalable being expensed 
as an employee cost under the new iFRs 
standards and supplemented by an increase 
in amortisation of £0.8m on scalable’s intangible 
assets acquired. These adjustments are 
shown on the face of the income statement, 
and also in Note 31.
Cash generation continues to be very strong. 
Net cash generated from operations was 
£15.4m (2010: £13.6m) which was 100% of 
adjusted EBITDA in the period (2010: 112%). 
Free cash flow was £11.4m (2010: £10.9m), 
enabling the group to pay £9.5m for the 
purchase of scalable and still end the year 
with £10.9m net cash (2010: £11.1m).
Financial results
   Year ended 2011  Year ended 2010
           Excluding  
     AN, Echo  scalable 
   Group Scalable and AKJ group growth 
   £m £m £m  £m  %
sales  117.3 20.5 96.8  96.2  1
gross profits  44.8 7.1 37.7  34.5  9
gross margins 38% 34% 39%  36%
Adjusted operating profit  14.6 1.7 12.9 11.5 12
Operating margins 12% 8% 13%  12% REv IEW OF ThE YEAR
 08
annual report and accounts 2011
ChIeF exeCUtIve oFFICer’S revIeW continued Financial results continued
Adjusted earnings per share increased 28% 
to 23.1p and, on a fully diluted basis, increased 
22% to 20.4p. Statutory earnings per share 
declined 4% from 15.7p to 15.0p. A detailed 
reconciliation is set out in the Financial and 
Business Review.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 
7p (2010: 4.1p), making a total of 10p for the 
year (2010: 9.1p), in line with our progressive 
dividend policy. if the special dividend of 
2010 is stripped out, the dividend increased 
by 3.9p or 64%.The dividend will be paid 
on 26 January 2012 to shareholders on 
the register at 23 December 2011.
Strategy 
the group has continued its successful 
twin strategy of organic and acquisitive 
growth to become the preferred Converged 
Communications partner of choice for the 
UK’s SME business market.
Strategy – acquisitions
the group continues to monitor the market 
proactively looking for further acquisitions that 
will fit well into the group. The strength of the 
group’s balance sheet, together with a weak 
broader economic landscape, are both expected 
to bolster opportunities in 2012. Our criteria 
remain that targets need to be successful, 
growing, profitable and have similar customer 
bases to the group. Further bolt-on acquisitions 
to complement the existing products are being 
considered, as well as targeting businesses 
in adjacent product sets.
Since 30 September 2010, the group has 
made one significant acquisition. We reported 
last year on the acquisition of scalable 
communications plc (Scalable) in the 
annual report. 
Scalable – update
Scalable is a fast growing IP networks 
integrator based in Buckinghamshire and 
london. Employee numbers have grown to 
75 from just over 50 at acquisition. Scalable 
remains a major partner of Juniper, Extreme, 
Mitel and F5. it consults, builds, installs, 
and maintains IP configured voice and data 
networks, also supplying security and a 
number of other bespoke solutions. t ypical 
clients include Charles Russell and liverpool 
Women’s NhS Foundation Trust.
Since acquisition, Scalable has won significant 
new accounts with carillion, Ocado, virgin 
Money and the Medical Research Council. 
it operates directly with clients and also with 
system integrators, and operates a modern 
Network Operating centre (NOc) in its head 
office, so it can constantly monitor and 
support its customers remotely. 
During the year, we have integrated all of 
scalable’s administrative functions into the 
group, refreshed the scalable brand to bring 
it into line with the group’s identity and 
recently combined the london sales office 
with our own office in Bishopsgate, london. 
The former finance director is set to leave in 
January 2012 but the rest of the management 
remains in place.
Strategy – organic growth 
Review of organic growth factors – 
update on key performance indicators
the four key organic growth factors 
supporting our strategy remain:
Focus on larger customers in SME space
We continue to target the mid enterprise 
market, particularly those customers with 
multi-sites and employees ranging from 
80 to 1,000.
At 30 September 2011, excluding Scalable’s 
new customers, we had 1,214 customers with 
spends over £1,000 per month. this is slightly 
down on 1,249 at 30 September 2010, due to 
the reduction in spends in Fixed line telephony  
by existing clients which took them below 
the threshold, and reflecting the economic 
softening and MTR (Mobile T ermination Rates) 
reductions of some customers on the cusp 
rather than a net loss of larger customers. 
there was a net gain of 57 newly acquired 
customers during the period. these included 
a number in targeted industry verticals such 
as the professional services sector and charities. 
the average monthly spend of these larger 
customers at 30 September 2011 was £5,080, 
up 7% on £4,765 in 2010.
At 30 September 2011, the number of higher 
spending business customers who take more 
than three products from the group increased 
to 746 from 734 at 30 September 2010, 
representing 61% of the larger client base 
(2010: 59%). The average monthly spend 
for these customers also increased 7% to 
£5,864 in September 2011, up from £5,506 
in september 2010.  annual report and accounts 2011
09
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
09
At 30 September 2011, Scalable had 235 
customers. Their average spend is nearly five 
times the size of the remainder of Alternative 
Networks’ customers and, in some cases, 
the customers are clearly large enterprises, 
rather than sME businesses. this supports 
the continuing trend of increasing the size of 
the group’s customers and the longer-term 
strategy is to continue to introduce and 
develop products and services which larger 
customers might take from a single platform.
the success of cross selling products into 
our existing smaller customers so that smaller 
customers become larger ones can also be 
measured as below.
Cross selling 
A key part of our organic growth strategy 
remains to sell more products to new and 
existing customers. During the period we 
have had further success in this objective, 
increasing the product penetration in our 
customer base. the number of customers 
taking more than one product is 47% (up 
1% from 46% in September 2010). This has 
been helped by the number of multi-product 
new customers. in the larger customer base 
(i.e. those spending over £1,000 per month) 
we have seen a sustained resilience in high 
product penetration, with the number of large 
customers buying more than one product 
remaining at 78% (78% in September 2010).
Reduction in churn
The group has continued to experience 
low churn levels across all products (mobile 
churn is covered separately on page 10). 
Unsurprisingly, churn remains lower in 
customers who take more than one product 
and are users of “Your Alternative Portal” 
(see page 11).
Product development
During the year the group continued to ensure 
it was in a position to provide clients with the 
full range of communications technology. 
The main addition, aside from Scalable’s lAN  
and data centre IP integration skills, was a 
much broader set of wide area networking 
and internet connectivity products. As a 
result, the group is well positioned in the 
UK market to provide advice and services 
to business customers and ensure their 
organisations have the right infrastructure 
to be IP and cloud enabled and be more 
competitive in the mobile workplace.
During this period, new products included:
Advanced solutions
The Internet and Wide Area Networking 
portfolios were completed this year with the 
addition of Ethernet First Mile connectivity 
and a new suite of MPlS, vPlS and Ethernet 
services allowing aggregated access from a 
number of tier-one providers. We launched 
the first cloud based services to be delivered 
over this infrastructure providing data backup 
tH e Aver Age 
montH ly 
SPenD oF 
l Arger 
customers 
WAS £5,080 – 
UP 7% on 
£4,765 In 2010 
Case study – Sheffield haworth
Sheffield Haworth is a leading global executive 
search firm focusing on the financial services 
industry. It employs over 100 professionals across 
ten international offices.
At the outset
Sheffield Haworth’s impending office move presented 
several communications challenges. T o ensure seamless 
customer service, it needed to keep existing number 
ranges. However, the new site was served by a different 
exchange, which meant the company’s existing ISDN30 
number ranges could not be retained. Sheffield Haworth 
was also looking to improve communications, increase 
resilience and reduce telecoms expenditure. 
Development
With the existing ISDN30 number ranges no longer an 
option, Alternative investigated other methods of keeping 
the same DDIs, recommending a hybrid SIP/ISDN. 
At the same time, we recommended an upgrade 
to the existing Avaya IP Office to a SIP compatible 
version. Existing numbers were ported to Gamma 
and redirected to the new SIP DDIs thus implementing 
a robust business continuity solution.
To boost resilience, ISDN30 channels were used 
to handle all outbound traffic. This provides added 
failover potential, if for example, the SIP network 
should suffer an outage. 
Summary
The use of SIP and ISDN in combination means that a 
sophisticated disaster recovery system is now in place.
Such a solution would ordinarily mean excess cost, 
but Sheffield Haworth actually saved money. Reduced 
rates on outbound calls were possible by switching 
supplier, and SIP is cheaper than ISDN 30, so line 
rental was lowered.  REv IEW OF ThE YEAR
 10
annual report and accounts 2011
ChIeF exeCUtIve oFFICer’S revIeW continued Product development continued
Advanced solutions continued
and storage solution (“Alternative backup”). 
in order to improve business continuity and 
flexibility, the group developed its virtualisation  
capabilities with the addition of vMware to 
the portfolio which complements the Mitel 
virtualised PBX update launched this year. 
Enhancements to the group’s unified 
communication suite included the addition 
of video conferencing from Polycom.
Mobile
The group extended and improved its 
commercial arrangements with both vodafone 
and O
2
. in addition, the key feature of the 
year was the inclusion of Apple’s iPhones 
and iPads to the group’s product portfolio 
and a broader mobile device range including 
the latest versions of all the major operating 
systems (BlackBerry, Apple iOS, Windows 
and Android). Major device launches included 
BlackBerry’s T orch 9810, 9860, Bold T ouch 9900 
and Playbook, and Android devices including 
Samsung galaxy S2 and S Tablet and the 
Motorola Zoom tablet. to complement the 
core Mobile offering, we also added a 
solution for Mobile Call Recording to help 
our financial services clients meet new 
compliance regulations.
Fixed Line 
During the year, the group consolidated its 
position as a leading provider of business 
grade SIP connectivity, converting customers 
from traditional voice services to SIP and 
delivering clients greater flexibility, enhanced 
resilience and the opportunity to consolidate 
their voice estate. Due to AKJ’s extensive 
experience with BT Openreach’s platform, 
the group was able to enhance its customers’ 
services with a range of business continuity 
services from the WlR3 platform. As a result, 
they benefited from better engineer visit booking, 
better visibility of spare capacity at exchanges, 
and temporary lines products, which have 
been adopted to service our hospitality and 
construction industry clients.
New developments planned for the next 
six months:
Mobile
We expect the growth in smartphones to 
increase, along with the trend for Bring Your 
Own Technology (BYOT), resulting in the need 
for organisations to support multiple mobile 
operating systems and increase the security 
of important corporate data on a range of 
devices. to meet these challenges, the group 
will launch a range of Mobile Device 
Management solutions in the first half of the 
year, allowing our clients to achieve the highest 
levels of security and device management on 
the main mobile operating systems. to continue 
to offer choice and flexibility, the first half of 
the year will see the addition of Ht C and 
Nokia devices to the portfolio alongside new 
BlackBerry devices running the new BBX 
operating system and the new Playbook, 
which has the important addition of native 
email client and citrix support. 
CASe StUDY – ASCrIBe
Ascribe is a leading supplier of consultancy 
and clinically focused IT solutions in healthcare 
throughout the UK, Europe and Asia Pacific.
At the outset
With an international office network serving a global 
customer base, reliable connectivity is critical to 
Ascribe. After a period of rapid growth, the company 
decided to upgrade to a more flexible and scalable 
network and communications infrastructure, having 
experienced bandwidth and connectivity issues, 
as well as customer complaints about the existing 
phone system.
Development
Scalable proposed a Wide Area Network (WAN) 
based on VPLS technology, increasing bandwidth 
connectivity to 100Mb. LAN switches were installed 
at the two data centres, while for remote locations 
secure Internet VPN solutions using Juniper firewalls 
were implemented. Scalable also implemented a 
Juniper Unified Threat Management (UTM) system, 
a solution that meets the strict compliance criteria of 
the NHS. This meant Ascribe could move to a Central 
Group N3 connection. To improve communications 
an upgraded Automatic Call Distribution (ACD) and 
Audio Web-Conferencing (AWC) were also added. 
Summary
Since implementation, VPLS technology has helped 
reduce latency and increase bandwidth to all UK and 
international sites. User satisfaction has increased, 
connectivity has improved and there is a now a 
business continuity solution in place. The Juniper 
firewalls have drastically reduced the amount of 
spam and virus traffic, customer service satisfaction 
has improved, while web conferencing has reduced 
running costs.
We HAve 
cre Ate D 
A unique 
business t HAt 
is i DeAlly 
Pl ACeD to Meet 
CUSto Mer S’ 
requirements annual report and accounts 2011
11
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
Fixed Line voice
The focus for the first half of the year in Fixed 
line is for us to package products to provide 
enhanced business continuity services, fixed 
and mobile vPN services, enhanced reporting 
and to develop a new Alternative own-label 
inbound platform.
Advanced Solutions
Advanced Solutions continues to show the 
greatest growth for the group and to give 
added impetus to this we are developing a 
new Optimised Wide Area Network solution 
complemented by an enhancement to the 
group’s Network Operations centre.
Your Alternative Portal
the portal was successfully launched in 
2011. this involved £0.5m investment in 
the architecture and data warehouse, and 
the software required to replicate all previous 
online services. since March 2011, the group 
has focused on adding enhancements to the 
system and there is a phased roll out planned 
for 2011/2012 with scheduled work planned 
until December 2012. the highlights of the 
deployments in 2011 were: 
 – successfully deployed the new Portal 
Framework and hardware as a platform 
on which to grow new functionality in the 
next 18 months;
 – launched an integrated Case Management 
service across all five product sets 
(Outbound Fixed line, Inbound Fixed line,  
Mobile, PBX systems and Data), which 
gives clients industry leading visibility 
of their service experience;
 – released a new Asset Management module 
that gives clients the ability to upload all of 
their telecoms estate (including those services 
that are not being provided by the group) 
in order to manage it centrally. Future 
releases will allow cases to be raised and 
services changed directly from this module;
 – increased the Portal penetration in the 
managed client base to over 95% enjoying 
Portal access and over 80% using it every 
month; and
 – over 200 key clients are engaged in the 
Portal Focus group, which helps to drive 
both the roadmap and give feedback on 
what we deliver. 
The next twelve months will see:
 – release of Mobile Management in 
2011 which will allow mobile clients 
to self-administer “bars” and add 
or reduce bespoke services;
 – development of enhanced reporting that 
will improve both the delivery of the information 
and the depth of data available. this will be 
done with a view to incorporating additional 
reporting across all product ranges and 
service levels;
 – enabling of online ordering for all product sets 
and enable tracking of online orders; and
 – further integration with suppliers’ systems 
that will allow both client self-service and 
also increase operational efficiencies.
Outlook
All of our operations are currently trading in 
line with expectations and we have a healthy 
pipeline of opportunities. the most encouraging 
feature of our business today is that, in many 
cases, customers are expressing an interest 
in more than one part of our offering, evidence 
that our strategy is gaining further momentum. 
We are also very excited about the prospects 
for scalable and have ambitious plans to drive 
further growth as it capitalises on increasing 
demand by customers for faster and more cost 
efficient data management services. Finally, 
we remain alert to acquisition opportunities, 
especially as worsening market conditions 
force independent businesses in our market 
to consider a different course.
We are therefore optimistic as to future growth 
prospects, notwithstanding the difficult economic 
backdrop. We have created a unique business 
that is ideally placed to meet customers’ 
requirements to manage their communications 
and data requirements cheaply, seamlessly 
and efficiently. We have a committed and 
experienced sales and marketing team that 
is adept at recognising customers’ varying 
needs and who is able to deliver value for 
money at a time when all organisations are 
scrutinising their costs. Few businesses in 
our sector are able to do this and it leaves 
us well equipped to enter 2012 ready for 
all eventualities.
James Murray
Chief Executive Officer
5 December 2011
