  02
annual report and accounts 2011
Al TERNATIv E AT A gl ANc E
We Are A le ADing 
mobile, systems 
AnD DAt A 
integr Ator
Advanced Solutions (including billing services)
We design, install and maintain all aspects of telephone systems with leading vendors 
such as Mitel and Avaya, including IP voice networks, virtualisation, unified communications, 
contact centre and multi-site solutions.
As an IP networks integrator we provide converged, high performance IP networks and security, 
including enterprise data centres and business continuity solutions, through our partnerships 
with Juniper, Extreme, F5 and Exponential-E. Our solutions help companies provide storage 
and back up of large volumes of data and demanding applications.
We also provide call management and billing solutions, including mobile order management 
and tariff bundling, tailored telecoms analysis, auditing, procurement cost allocation and 
expense management to leading telecoms service providers, resellers, systems integrators, 
consulting firms and corporate customers.
Mobile 
We offer an extensive range of mobile solutions, including smartphones, mobile email, data 
and tablet computing. We have excellent commercial arrangements with vodafone and O
2
, 
as well as the ability to provide all the major handsets and tablets. 
to complement our core mobile offering, we have also added two key solutions: Mobile 
call Recording helps clients – particularly in the financial services sector – meet compliance 
regulations and improve customer service and staff performance. Whilst Mobile Device 
Management solutions allow clients to achieve the highest levels of security and device 
management on the main mobile operating systems.
Fixed line 
We provide fixed-line telephony services partnering with BT Openreach, cable & Wireless 
and TalkT alk Business, as well as voice Over IP (vOIP) services. Our success at converting 
customers from traditional voice services to vOIP (for example SIP), ensures clients have 
greater flexibility, enhanced business continuity and resilience and the opportunity to 
reduce costs.
Our inbound solutions, including Non-geographic numbering (NgN) ranges, improve 
customer service and also business continuity.
our solutions
Sales
£37.7m
+137%
(2010: £15.9m)
Sales
£39.8m
+8%
(2010: £36.9m)
Sales
£39.9m
–8%
(2010: £43.3m) annual report and accounts 2011
03
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
HoW We ADD vAlue
technology has never been more strategically important for 
businesses and economic pressure requires more to be delivered 
for less, whilst constantly improving service levels. We recognise 
that this is only possible via an end-to-end approach, and as a 
result, communications have never needed to be more integrated.
Our sales and marketing strategy is vertically aligned, so that we fully 
understand our target sectors and concentrate on providing them 
with what they need to meet the specific challenges of their individual 
industries. We have a complete level of expertise and experience in 
house which, matched with our flexibility, allows us to build solutions 
incorporating the latest technology.
As a growing business we are constantly developing our skill 
and product sets. Our online portal – Your Alternative Portal – 
is a key differentiator in the market place and is a main area of 
future opportunity as we lead the way in online interactive 
communications account management.
On a broader theme, all enterprises are expanding their data, IP , 
storage security and back-up requirements, whether inside or out 
of the Cloud. We can now provide a more fully integrated proposition, 
combining these products with fixed line and mobile solutions. 
o ur core v Alues
— Understand our clients’ needs
—  Maximise their existing technology investment
— Identify and plan their future technologies
— Design bespoke solutions
—  Commitment to service excellence 
through end-to-end ownership
WHAt mAkes AlternA tive DiFFerent?
—  A diverse product portfolio
—  Your Alternative Portal
—  Industry leading experience in integrating 
multiple products
—  Bespoke billing and provisioning solutions
—  Well established and robust 
management teams
—  Single, independent resource for everything
