 8
Hummingbird Resources plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s Statement
On behalf of the board of directors I am pleased to present Hummingbird Resources
plc’s Annual Report for the year ending 31 May 2011.
It has been a very signiﬁcant year in the development of the Company. Hummingbird
Resources underwent a successful transition from a private to a public company when
its shares became tradable on London’s AIM market on 10 December 2010. The
Company raised gross proceeds of $40m in the IPO process and it gives me great
pleasure to welcome all those new shareholders into the business. At the time of the IPO,
Hummingbird also announced a maiden NI43-101 compliant resource of 812,000 ounces
on its Dugbe F Project which was the culmination of ﬁve years of pioneering and 
back-breaking grass roots exploration in the remote eastern provinces of Liberia. Now,
nine months later, we are thrilled to have more than doubled that initial resource to a
total of 1,765,000 ounces. 
Proof of Concept
To think that the ﬁrst footprints were only planted in Dugbe in 2007, the speed of
development to reach a resource is extremely satisfying, and all involved can rightfully
be very proud. As we said at our IPO though, this serves only as the ‘proof of concept’.
We believe that Hummingbird is on the verge of placing itself and Liberia ﬁrmly as a
major player in West Africa’s world class Birimian gold belt. The events of the current year
are, we hope, merely a prelude to the gathering pace of development from now on. 
The proceeds raised at IPO (which was oversubscribed) should be sufﬁcient to meet our
exploration plan, which has the main priority of adding ounces, proving that our initial
resource was merely the beginning. To this end a vast amount of work has been
ongoing all year, and as I write this we have drilled a further 20,000 metres at our Dugbe
F Project in 2011 alone, not to mention all the regional programmes ongoing, and we
have signiﬁcantly increased the size of the Resource, together with some pleasing
improvement in grade at the southern and western margins of the initial deposit at the
Dugbe F Project. 
Exceptional Team
I visited Liberia and the Dugbe F Project earlier in 2011 and was extremely pleased with
progress on the ground, the in-country team, quality of the project and the ability of the
Company to get to mine development in the near future, all of which has ﬁlled me with
conﬁdence.
Hummingbird’s objectives remain to explore for, discover, evaluate and develop gold
deposits. We have built a team that has the skills to do this and in Liberia we have given
ourselves an almost unique opportunity to not only ﬁnd world class gold deposits, but to
build a gold mining industry that is second to none in this young developing country. 
Iron Ore 
As well as gold licences, Hummingbird Resources owns 50% of Iron Bird Resources in a
joint venture with Petmin Ltd, which owns the highly prospective Mt Ginka iron ore
licence. An aeromagnetic survey was ﬂown at the beginning of the year over this
licence. The results of this showed a signiﬁcant magnetic anomaly extending 20km in
length by up to 250m wide and depths of 1,000m. Since these results a programme of
trenching and metallurgical test work is underway. With iron ore in such demand, this
project represents a signiﬁcant potential value-adding opportunity for Hummingbird
shareholders, at minimal cost to the Company, as Petmin has ﬁnanced the initial
exploration programme. 9
Hummingbird Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s Statement
Liberia
And that brings me to Liberia, a country little-known for anything beyond the Charles
Taylor years in the West. For me, Liberia is not so much a risk but one of our biggest
advantages. Our positioning in the country is second to none due to the years of hard
work put in by the team. The country has a rapidly growing economy as it has been at
peace for almost a decade. Before the war Liberia enjoyed the longest ever period of
stability known by any African nation (113 years) and this tiny nation was the world’s
third largest exporter of iron ore. This is a country with a proud history in the extractive
industries and their support in our development is a huge help.
Improving Investment Environment
Liberia continues to attract world-class investment. This includes Chevron Corporation,
Sime Darby Berhad, BHP Billiton Ltd and numerous other listed resource companies. Of
great signiﬁcance is the fact that ArcelorMittal’s re-development of the Mt Nimba
project has now gone into production with the ﬁrst iron ore having been shipped from
Nimba out through Buchanan port. Infrastructure in the form of roads, railways and ports
has improved greatly over the years and is helping to continually reduce operational
costs. Liberia has a population of only 3.9m people and geographically is very small. It is
only 40km as the crow ﬂies from Dugbe F to the operational deep water port of
Greenville. In 2008 Liberia was rated the most improved country in Africa by the Ibrahim
Index of African Governance. 
Against this positive country backdrop, in the last year we have seen gold rally to a high
point of over $1,900/ounce. This is due to many factors including uncertainties around
the world economy, not helped by huge US debt and crisis in the Eurozone. None of
these problems appear to have an immediate solution and the mid-term price of gold
looks likely to grow beyond prices we previously thought possible. However, it is likely that
the secular upward trend in gold price will be subject to extreme volatility. Once again
history repeats itself and people seek safety in gold as economies and short-term
government policies fail to stabilise the situation. 
Looking Ahead
Our strategy remains to discover more gold quickly and efﬁciently, while concurrently
moving the Dugbe F Project towards production. Indeed, it is our intention this
forthcoming year to fully evaluate our development options for the Dugbe F Project,
which is the most advanced project in our stable of opportunities, in consultation with
the relevant experts.
Finally, it would be remiss of me not to thank Dan and his team who have worked
tirelessly to get Hummingbird to where we are today, undertaking an enormous amount
of work, often under very demanding conditions. This is a difﬁcult business and I take
great pride in the skills and spirit of this rapidly maturing team. With them, your
investment is in safe hands. 
On that ﬁnal note, it is your company. Without your trust and support we would not exist
and we do not take that responsibility lightly. Furthermore, Liberia would not have this
opportunity for sustainable development. Whilst markets may ﬂuctuate I urge you to
retain perspective and see this journey through as I believe we are set for great things. 
Ian Cockerill
Non-Executive Chairman
