 10
Hummingbird Resources plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
CEO’s Statement
It has been a dramatic 16 months in the life of Hummingbird Resources, and it gives me
great pleasure to write this summary to you in our ﬁrst Annual Report as a public
company.
In order to look forward, it is important ﬁrst to look back. In May 2010 Hummingbird was a
private company with no resource and a little over $3m in the bank, desperately hoping
that its drill programme, with a completed total of 6,000m at its Dugbe licence, would
be successful. 
The Company listed on AIM in London on 10 December 2010 and raised $40m at a pre
money valuation of $100m. With 53,355,565 shares in issue this gave the Company a
market capitalisation of $140m (£89m) at launch, which equated to £1.67 per share. At
this time the Company had an NI 43-101 compliant resource of 552,000 Indicated
ounces and 260,000 Inferred ounces totalling 812,000 ounces of gold at an average
grade of 1.208g/t. This resource was open in all directions and was delivered for a
discovery cost of $15/ounce which includes all of the work completed over all of our
licences over the last ﬁve years. It was delivered with 93 diamond drill holes, totalling
14,082 metres and every hole intersected a single consistent ore body.
Strategy/Mission Statement
At IPO we made various statements of intent. We were not “selling” an 812,000 ounce
gold mine. We simply see this as the ﬁrst step of proving up a virgin, world-class gold
province in which we have an unassailable land position and ﬁrst-mover advantage. This
resource, delivered in one drill season at one anomaly, was simply the proof of concept:
proof that we can operate effectively and efﬁciently in a new and logistically
challenging territory, and, to our own mind, proof that we have “an elephant by the
tail”.
Our promises at IPO can be distilled into the following 18-month mission:
1.    To prove that in the Dugbe F Project we have a stand-alone gold mine of regional
signiﬁcance. This will be achieved by adding mineable ounces of gold and by
drilling out the extent of the ore body.
2.    To explore for, discover and prove additional mineable gold resources within a
mineable radius of the initial deposit at the Dugbe F Project. It is the Company’s
belief that, as a classic Birimian deposit, the ultimate mining camp will consist of
many additional deposits. 
3.    To develop the regional capacity of our licence package over the Dugbe Shear
Zone to show that it has the fantastic potential to host multiple gold mines.
4.    To ﬂy an aeromagnetic survey over our Mt Ginka iron ore licence, and accelerate
ﬁeld work in order to gauge scale and metallurgy on this prospect. 
5.    To add value to all of our other licences by continuing to explore and to take them
up the value curve.
Our strategy remains to explore for and develop multi-million ounce gold deposits in
Liberia. This will be done through systematic exploration work built around a world class
Birimian land package. With the Dugbe F Project now at 1.8m ounces we are beginning
to show that we have real momentum and the team in place to deliver this. With many
satellite projects progressing well, such as the success at Tuzon, we believe that we are in
the process of achieving this goal.  11
Hummingbird Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
CEO’s Statement
Current Position
Today, the Company has cash reserves of $25m, against a budget of $22m. Since IPO,
our work has focused (but not exclusively) on our resource accretion work at the Dugbe
F Project in accordance with our mission priorities above. We have drilled a further 23,000
metres across all licences in 2011 for 189 holes and are delighted with our recent
announcement of a resource upgrade which more than doubles our maiden resource,
to a total of 1,765,000 ounces, outperforming all market expectations. We intend to
make a further resource upgrade in early 2012 and we currently have two drills running
24 hrs a day. The metre rates have improved despite drilling shorter holes (due to our
improved understanding of the mineralisation body) and generally the team is
becoming more effective at discovering gold.
Scoping Out The Future
We have commissioned GBM Minerals Engineering Consultants Ltd to work with us to
evaluate our future development options. The studies will centre around our existing
Resource. However, the speed at which the deposit and the regional picture is
developing means it is likely that the eventual mine will alter substantially from an initial
assessment of the Dugbe F Project alone, as the deposit is anticipated to be far greater
in scope and will draw in a number of regional deposits and pits that do not currently
have a resource attached to them. This is an absolutely classic Birimian style deposit that
is rapidly revealing itself to us. 
A Gold Mining Industry 
In addition to the drilling programme, we have also taken over 8,000 soil samples and
2,000 stream sediment samples across the Dugbe Shear Zone to prove up mission
statement number 2. This has worked extremely well, and a number of our regional
targets are looking exceptionally encouraging. Our Tuzon anomaly 2.5km east of the
Dugbe F Project (easily within a mineable distance) has shown our best trench results to
Dugbe F
Tuzon
Dugbe F (The Foundary)
Crocodile Hill
Zia
Sackor
(Block D)
Dugbe
Tiehnpo 
Nemo Creek Ba
Kana Hills
Tawake Pilbo Gekehn Zwedru Ke Town
Resource Drilling
Scout Drilling
Trenching
Soil Sampling
Follow Up Stream Sampling
First Pass Stream Sampling
The Peleton
Dugbe (other areas)
Joe Village (other areas)
Hummingbird Resources Project Pyramid 12
Hummingbird Resources plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
CEO’s Statement
date with consistent zones of up to 80m at an average grade of around 2 g/t. Whilst this
may not be a true thickness of the mineralisation zone itself, the reason for the
mineralisation zone potentially being thinner than this is due to the incredibly shallow
dipping nature of the mineralisation zone which is all extremely positive for eventual
mining. We have commenced drilling Tuzon and whilst these results were not ready in
time for the recent resource update, they will be for Q1 2012.
Many regional programmes have gone ahead across all of our licences. Many
anomalies have been highlighted with stream sediment sampling in Tawake, Gekhen,
Zwedru and Ke Town. Extensive soil grids have been cut in Ba, Joe Village, Nemo Creek
and Dugbe. We have also ﬂown an aeromagnetic survey at Mt Ginka which has shown
extremely positive results in the outlining of a continuous magnetic unit of 20km length
with a width of up to 250m and a down dip extent of 1,000m. This is a signiﬁcant target,
and work is currently underway to test the metallurgy and true extent via trenching,
sampling and scout drilling of this project. Mt Ginka is held in a joint venture with Petmin
Ltd through “Iron Bird Resources Inc”, in which Hummingbird has a 50% equity interest.
Iron Bird also has $1.7m of cash in it and so this asset, which represents zero in the
valuation of Hummingbird and will cost Hummingbird no money in the short term, has
the potential to create signiﬁcant short-term value. 
Hummingbird is not a single project company. We believe that we have the opportunity
to build a whole gold mining industry in southeast Liberia encompassing several mines
across multiple shear zones. The speed of work that is being carried out to progress this
vision is proliﬁc, and it is being achieved in an extremely cost effective manner.
Hummingbird only acquired the Joe Village licence in October 2010 and we have
already drilled 7 ,487 metres on it which has made up the bulk of our resource update.
Dugbe F Project: 1,765,000 oz. deposit and surrounding prospective
targets 13
Hummingbird Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
A ‘Home Grown’ Success
Away from geology and the ﬁnance, Hummingbird strives to be far more than just a
proﬁtable business. We very much see our development as a mirror to the 
re-development of Liberia itself and we aim to be an integral part of Liberia’s promising
future. Hummingbird employs approximately 280 people, and is proudly Liberian, seen in
country as a ‘home grown’ success. Amongst the innumerable social development and
infrastructure rehabilitation projects that we have done, we have also sponsored
students through university in Liberia some of whom we are now employing and built a
whole library for the government’s geological survey. We have also founded The Pygmy
Hippo Foundation with the intent of preserving the unique natural environment in the
southeast of Liberia around the Sapo National Park.
We are currently in the process of negotiating the transition of some of our Mineral
Exploration Licences (MELs) into Mineral Development Agreements (MDAs) with the
Government of Liberia and hope for this process to be concluded by the end of the
year. The Ministry of Lands, Mines and Energy has approved the MDA on technical
grounds at the time of press, which is the most signiﬁcant step in the process. 
Commitment
As much as anything, the ability to deliver on our ambitious promises is down to
conviction and commitment, and at Hummingbird I feel we are building a team that is
not only hugely ambitious, but is totally committed to the cause and capable of
delivery. The operational and geological teams have, for the second year running,
drilled straight through the rainy season in southeast Liberia, which had never been done
before last year, and in our board we have a blend of skills that can take us through all
the way to running gold mines. I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of the
shareholders to thank everybody involved in Hummingbird: our staff, our contractors, the
host communities in which we work and the Government of Liberia for their support and
belief in this business. I would also like to thank the board for their wise counsel through
this transitional year. The business is now entering one of its most exciting phases of
development. With ﬁve years of work under our belt to build our infrastructure, hone our
strategy, and understand our opportunity, we are now all geared into the drill bit, the
world’s most powerful weapon of ﬁnancial wealth creation!
Daniel Betts
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
CEO’s Statement
Hummingbird
Avocet
Keegan
Ampella
Aureus
Amlib
Hummingbird land holdings relative to West
African peers
