 www.hummingbirdresources.co.uk 04
 
CEO’S  
STATEMENT
Yanfolila currently has 1.8Moz of gold over several deposits 
at an average grade of 2.8g/t. The Project was too small for 
a company of Gold Fields’ size to mobilise, but the fact that 
they took Hummingbird shares in exchange for the deal is 
confirmation of their underlying belief in the asset, and a 
huge endorsement of the Hummingbird team and its ability 
to deliver both in Mali and Liberia.
In last year’s annual report I opened with the 
following paragraph:
“A year passes quickly, and in next 
year’s annual report I hope to write that 
we are putting the finishing touches to a 
positive DFS for the Dugbe 1 Project and 
construction of the Dugbe 1 mine is shortly 
due to commence. The following year I hope 
to write that Hummingbird is on the verge of 
its first gold pour and becoming a producer.”
The timeframe for first production remains 
the same, but the lead asset is different! 
The scope and strategy of Hummingbird 
has changed beyond all recognition since I 
wrote those words.  They say that necessity 
is the mother of all invention, and the gold 
market of the past three years has certainly 
focused minds to think that way. Everything 
we thought we knew back then has changed 
and as a result we have had to change with 
it. We can either bemoan the declining gold 
price and the impact that it has had on the 
stock prices of the junior gold miners, or 
we can challenge ourselves to look for the 
opportunities it presents. 
By necessity, we have had to re-invent 
our strategy. We have done that, and we 
are undoubtedly stronger for it. This year 
we have effected that change with huge 
success, positioning ourselves within a small 
group of companies able to exploit this 
market to build the next generation of gold 
companies that will thrive in the future.
The DFS on the Dugbe 1 project has been a 
comprehensive piece of work with extremely 
encouraging results in many areas, but it 
has been conducted against a backdrop of 
an ever falling gold price. The economics of 
the PEA upon which we based our decision 
to conduct the DFS were that of an IRR of 
43% and free cash of US$60m per year.  
The gold price has retreated some US$300/
oz since the PEA was completed, which on 
125,000 oz of annual production equates 
to a reduction of US$37.5m in projected 
revenue on an annual basis. Despite the 
improvements in grade, resource, power 
costs and recovery across the scope of the 
project it is impossible to fight a waning tide 
of this magnitude. 
Liberia is also experiencing a significant 
public health challenge. With the current 
tragic outbreak of Ebola, not only is the 
political system under immense pressure but 
the ability to operate in-country is severely 
restricted.  The World Health Organization is 
predicting the current epidemic will continue 
for many months before it is under control.   
Hummingbird remains committed to Liberia 
and the development of the Dugbe 1 Project.  
Fortunately, the Board took the decision to 
explore opportunities to diversify, in order 
to maintain our momentum and exploit the 
currently depressed gold sector in order to 
build a gold company. 
During the period we evaluated a number of 
projects and at the start of 2014 entered into 
a tender process to buy the Yanfolila Project 
and all associated in-country licences and 
operations from Gold Fields. I am delighted 
to be able to confirm that after the year end 
we were successful in this tender against a 
highly competitive field and we managed to 
acquire all of Gold Fields’ assets in Mali for 
US$20m payable in Hummingbird shares.
Furthermore, we are able to fund Yanfolila’s 
development and potential future 
construction having secured a conditional 
US$75m debt facility from Taurus Funds 
Management, on extremely competitive 
rates. The initial US$10m bridge, which has 
already been drawn in order to complete the 
optimisation plans, was borrowed at 9% and 
this rolls up into the US$75m.
Yanfolila currently has 1.8Moz of gold over 
several deposits at an average grade of 
2.8g/t. The Project was too small for a 
company of Gold Fields’ size to mobilise, but 
the fact that they took Hummingbird shares 
in exchange for the deal is confirmation 
of their underlying belief in the asset, and 
a huge endorsement of the Hummingbird 
team and its ability to deliver both in Mali and 
Liberia.
Hummingbird’s plan is to change the scope 
of the Project and to initially process only the 
oxide and transitional material which is much 
softer rock and will require significantly less 
power and a smaller plant to process. This will 
reduce the Project’s capital requirement to 
a level where a junior like Hummingbird can 
afford to build it and significantly reduce 
the payback period. Our target is to start 
construction in Q1 2015 and to be in 
production by 2016. It is estimated that the 
mine will produce over 80,000ozs in the first 
year at an initial all in cost of US$700/oz 
meaning that it is a far more achievable 
Tuzon cross section Hummingbird Resources PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Report of the Directors
Accounts
05
project to get off the ground in this gold price 
environment than the large Dugbe 1.
Make no mistake about it, we still see Liberia 
as a company-making project. Not only do 
we have an existing resource of 4.2Moz but 
we have almost limitless potential to expand 
that resource. Once built it will continue 
producing gold for decades to come, but it 
has been the Board’s studied position that 
the best way for us to build a gold company, 
particularly at this time, is to diversify our 
position and get into cash flow as quickly as 
possible with a high-grade, low-cost project 
at Yanfolila and ensure that we do not get 
cornered in this market with an asset which 
is too big to fund at these gold prices.
On top of it being a valuable asset itself, the 
Yanfolila acquisition now allows us to take 
the time to re-asses the Dugbe 1 Project in 
order to maximise the economics. Initially, 
the DFS was being conducted purely on the 
Tuzon deposit, which has over 30m tonnes 
of ore, to keep initial capital costs as low as 
possible by using a 3mtpa plant.  Ore from 
the Dugbe F, Sakor and future deposits 
were to be added in later. With the improved 
resource modelling and mine scheduling that 
has been conducted during the year, it is 
now clear that there are huge opportunities 
to improve the Project’s cash flows by 
scheduling in low strip shallow ore from other 
deposits. This is planned during years six 
to eight of the mine’s life when the Tuzon 
deposit strip increases as we mine around 
the bend of the folded ore body. However, 
we believe that we have the potential to 
materially improve the economics of the 
Dugbe Project by bringing in ore from other 
deposits during this period and as such we 
are using the current environment to evaluate 
these opportunities. Additionally, we are 
keen to continue exploration within the area. 
“ We are encouraged by several 
technical studies to determine 
the most cost effective way  
to mine, process and deliver  
a highly profitable project.” 
Daniel Betts
me to build and run a junior gold company 
under the wise council, guidance, support 
and friendship of Ian.  Ian will remain 
involved in Hummingbird as an advisor but, 
after five years in the role as Chairman, we 
have decided that the time is right for him 
to step aside to devote more time to his 
other commitments. As we embark upon 
a new strategic opportunity, our aim in the 
current market is to capitalise on the huge 
opportunities available to us in building a 
gold company. 
Daniel Betts 
Chief Executive Officer
Gold mines take years if not decades to 
discover, prove and build. Hummingbird’s 
strategy is contrarian to most of the existing 
juniors on the market in that we believe that 
now is the time to work, build and prepare 
for the next phase of the cycle. It is our 
aim to provide the investment world with a 
technically robust, viable, deliverable plan 
that offers shareholders a business with 
maximum exposure to the next rising gold 
market – an alternative to the common 
strategy of doing nothing and waiting.  
Therefore, our mission is clear: to build the 
pre-eminent next generation gold company 
by aggressively developing our own projects 
despite the current market, and continuing 
to evaluate any other quality projects which 
become available. As Warren Buffet said: 
“if you want to hunt 
rare fast moving 
elephants, you had 
better walk with 
a loaded gun 
where others 
don’t venture”.
On a final 
note, our 
AGM this 
year will see 
the retirement 
of Chairman Ian 
Cockerill. It has 
been a privilege for 
