 03
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
For US$20m in shares, Hummingbird acquired a fully 
permitted project with approximately US$100m proven 
expenditure in the ground, only 18 months away from 
production. The high grade Yanfolila Project is a mine 
capable of turning a profit in a varying gold price 
environment and will allow for quick returns with low 
operating costs. The Company will continue to consider 
other such value-adding opportunities created by the 
current market.
2014 has been a year of significant progress 
for Hummingbird.
Hummingbird grew its mineral Resources 
in Liberia to 4.2Moz gold and since 
the year end it has acquired the fully 
permitted Yanfolila Gold Project in Mali 
with a 1.8Moz gold Resource at 2.8g/t.  
Having subsequently secured conditional 
funding of US$75m for the construction 
of Yanfolila, Hummingbird has taken huge 
strides towards becoming a near term gold 
producer. 
Stepping back for a minute and looking at 
the mining sector over recent years we can 
see how much values have retrenched from 
the highs of 2011. It would appear that the 
industry bottomed out over the course of 
the year and there have been encouraging 
signs of recovery since the year end. While 
this trend is welcome, and despite recent 
progress made by the Company, our 
market valuation, like our peers remains 
unsatisfactory. 
This environment, however, has created 
significant opportunities to acquire high 
quality assets at extraordinary prices, 
something the Company was able to take 
advantage of in July. For US$20m in shares, 
Hummingbird acquired a fully permitted 
project with approximately US$100m 
proven expenditure in the ground, only 
18 months away from production. The high 
grade Yanfolila project is a mine capable 
of turning a profit in a varying gold price 
environment and will allow for quick returns 
with low operating costs. The Company will 
continue to consider other such value-adding 
opportunities created by the current market.
This acquisition, combined with our existing 
resources in Liberia, means we now have 
an inventory of over 6Moz of gold and a 
5,000km2 exploration package across 
both Mali and Liberia. This impressive 
portfolio, coupled with a clear, funded path 
to initial production, is paving the way for 
Hummingbird to evolve into a substantial 
West African gold player.
In Liberia, many aspects of the Detailed 
Feasibility Study are showing improvement 
from increased grade and recovery, to 
reduced power costs, as we continue to 
progress this core asset. However, the 
acquisition of a near-term production asset 
in Yanfolila has afforded us an opportunity to 
step back and optimise the Dugbe 1 DFS, a 
process which is currently underway. 
Having Chaired Hummingbird for the past 
five years we have decided that it is the right 
time for me to stand down as Chairman. 
I am very proud of the progress that has 
been made over that time from grassroots 
exploration, through a listing on the stock 
exchange and on through remarkable 
discovery success to near production. 
Whilst the market has remained volatile, I am 
pleased to say Hummingbird has continued 
to find a way to deliver and has continued to 
add value and grow. 
It has been a pleasure to serve as your 
Chairman and I am leaving the Company in a 
strong state, with an excellent management 
team, assets and prospects. I will remain 
involved in Hummingbird in an advisory 
capacity and I look forward to watching 
the team develop though this cycle of the 
market. 
Ian Cockerill 
Non-executive Chairman
5,000KM
2
Land in West Africa
6Moz Gold
Hummingbird Resources PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Report of the Directors
Accounts
