 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 02 
Chairman’ s Statement
Making significant strides
“  We are well 
placed to take 
advantage of this 
growth and look 
forward to the 
opportunities and 
challenges ahead.”
The Group has once again produced excellent 
results in a year of continuing expansion. Profit 
before tax from continuing operations and before 
amortisation and exceptional items in 201 1 was 
£79.8m (2010 – £47 .0m), a 70% increase. After 
amortisation and exceptional items, profit before 
tax from continuing operations was £38.8m 
(2010 – £33.0m). 
Outstanding acquisition opportunities arose 
and the Group took advantage of these, with the 
support of our banks and equity shareholders, 
as well as existing cash, to buy four companies 
– Titan being the largest purchase we have ever 
made. Despite this and the continuing investment 
in our manufacturing plants and service facilities, 
the balance sheet remains strong and healthy.
Industry trends identified in previous years 
continued in 201 1, with high oil prices, low 
natural gas prices (at least in North America) 
and an even more emphatic rush to develop 
unconventional, especially shale, resources.
Global financial worries have not seriously 
impacted the demand for energy in most of our 
markets, so that customers have continued with 
their development and investment programmes 
– leading to high demand for our products.
Activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico, an 
important market for us, are beginning to 
recover to somewhere near their pre-2010 levels. 
Meanwhile, the abundant resources available in 
shale deposits onshore in the United States and 
elsewhere are being tapped at an increasing rate, 
with the emphasis moving to liquids for reasons 
of price.
Job: ChairmanXsXstatement_v21 Proof: 01  Proof Read by:
Operator: paul Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM 
Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read/Revisions
ChairmanXsXstatement_v21.indd   2 09/03/2012   19:56 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03 
“  C u s t om er s h a v e 
continued with 
their development 
and investment 
programmes 
– leading to high 
demand for 
our products.”
A higher proportion of wells than ever before are 
being drilled horizontally and the Group has a 
comprehensive suite of products to support this 
trend. Our 201 1 acquisitions give us even more 
strength in MWD (“measurement-while-drilling”) 
and LWD (“logging-while-drilling”) applications, 
while the growing demand for fracturing shale 
deposits is well served by Hunting Titan, the 
largest acquisition.
The Well Construction operations of our principal 
operating company, Hunting Energy Services, 
contributed strongly in a very much improved 
year while the largest activity, Well Completion, 
again performed magnificently. Well Intervention 
had another profitable year. It is notable that 
Asian activities and markets became ever more 
important to us.
We have continued our capital spending 
programme in all areas of Hunting Energy 
Services activity, with a particular emphasis on 
advanced production machinery to improve 
efficiency and to reduce costs.
Outside the Hunting Energy Services stable, 
Gibson Shipbrokers had a successful year in 
highly volatile markets.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations, before amortisation and exceptional 
items, were 38.7p, an increase of 70% on the 
previous year. Reported diluted earnings per 
share from continuing operations were 20.3p 
(2010 – 15.4p). 
We are recommending a final dividend for 201 1 
of 1 1.0p per share, payable on 2 July 2012 to 
shareholders on the register on 8 June 2012, giving 
a total of 15.0p for the year, a 25% increase.
George Helland, a non-executive Director since 
2001, retired from the Company during the year. 
The Board thanks him for his thorough and 
constructive work, particularly in the role of 
Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Andrew Szescila, a US citizen and former Chief 
Operating Officer of Baker Hughes, joined the 
Board as a non-executive Director. David Barr, 
who had been appointed a non-executive 
Director at the beginning of the year, left us 
to take up an executive position elsewhere.
Your Company has had another excellent year 
and is considerably larger than before. The markets 
it serves seem poised to continue to grow as 
standards of living and energy consumption per 
head increase in much of the world. 
We are well placed to take advantage of this 
growth and look forward to the opportunities 
and challenges ahead.
I am grateful to our staff throughout the world for 
their fine contribution to our success.
Richard Hunting C.B.E.
Chairman
8 March 2012
Recent acquisitions have added 
skills and scale to MWD/LWD 
capability.
Job: ChairmanXsXstatement_v21 Proof: 01  Proof Read by:
Operator: paul Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM 
Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read/Revisions
ChairmanXsXstatement_v21.indd   3 09/03/2012   19:56
