 Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012
10
Chief Executive’ s Review
to underlying profit from continuing 
operations increasing 59% to £128.8m 
(201 1 – £81.0m). Underlying diluted 
earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased by 49% to 57 .5p 
(201 1 – 38.7p).
Reported profit from continuing 
operations was £85.9m (201 1 – £41.0m) 
and reported diluted earnings per share 
from continuing operations was 40.0p 
(201 1 – 20.3p).
Our results have been delivered against 
a market backdrop where the energy 
industry in North America has seen 
a shift in focus from onshore natural 
gas drilling to liquids-focused targets, 
resulting in a 1 3% decline in the number 
of active onshore rig units in the year. 
This has been partially offset by a 1 9% 
increase in the number of offshore active 
Introduction
Hunting has again reported a record 
set of financial results in a year where 
the Group has progressed its strategy 
to internationalise its product portfolio 
enhanced by the businesses acquired 
in recent years. 2012 has been a year 
of integration, consolidation and 
further organic expansion aimed at 
maximising the enlarged Group’s profit 
and margin potential. Plans to further 
grow the manufacturing footprint 
are also under way as expansion 
opportunities in new geographic 
territories are considered.
The Group has reported an annual 
increase in revenue of 36% to £825.8m. 
The increase in business momentum 
seen in the first quarter of the year, 
and generally consistent demand for 
our products throughout 2012, led 
units drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, further 
supported by a 6% increase in other 
regions where Hunting operates 
internationally . The WTI crude oil price 
has also been relatively stable throughout 
the year ensuring that capital expenditure 
by the major energy exploration and 
services companies has been sustained. 
These factors have enabled many of 
Hunting’s businesses to achieve 
outstanding operating results.
In the year Hunting Titan products and 
components began to be manufactured 
at a number of Hunting’s North 
American locations to maximise cost 
benefits and plans are in place to 
commence manufacturing in China 
during 201 3. Hunting Titan’s sales reach 
has been extended to Europe, the Middle 
East and Asia Pacific, with personnel 
being appointed at our key regional 
facilities, extending sales opportunities 
for perforating systems and accessories 
into a wider international customer base.
Hunting’s efforts to further extend its Well 
Construction, Well Completion and Well 
Intervention product offering throughout 
all of its international operating hubs 
is also producing results. This includes 
combining sales and manufacturing 
capabilities of the new acquisitions into 
our Canadian, European and Asia Pacific 
markets and also broadening the existing 
product and service lines offered by 
our UK operations into larger North 
American markets where new demand 
has been identified. 
Group Income Statement
Underlying
Change
%
Reported
Change
%
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Continuing operations:
Revenue 825.8 608.8 36 825.8 608.8 36
EBITDA 154.3 102.5 51 144.7 77.2 87
Profit from operations 128.8 81.0 59 85.9 41.0 110
Profit before tax 123.6 79.8 55 80.7 38.8 108
Profit for the year 89.0 57.3 55 62.8 31.5 99
Discontinued operations:
Profit for the year – 0.7 69.2 50.7
Total profit for the year 89.0 58.0 53 132.0 82.2 61
Diluted EPS – continuing 
operations 57.5p 38.7p 49 40.0p 20.3p 97 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012
11
In parallel to these integration initiatives, 
Hunting continues to increase its 
international presence. Hunting Specialty 
has broadened its manufacturing 
and sales reach into Canada and the 
Advanced Manufacturing Group is 
planning international expansion with 
new markets being developed in Asia 
Pacific over the coming year.
Our European and Middle East 
operations continued strong recruitment 
efforts during the year, supporting the 
opening of our expanded facility at 
Badentoy , Scotland and relocation of our 
Middle East operations to new enlarged 
facilities allowing service and repair 
functions to be undertaken. Hunting has 
also commenced a greenfield initiative in 
sub-Sahara Africa, driven by increasing 
sales into West Africa and strong oil and 
gas exploration activities in East Africa. 
In November 2012, a new management 
team based in South Africa joined 
the Group and were tasked to develop 
further sales across the continent and 
to develop plans for establishing a 
manufacturing presence in the region. 
While this initiative will take time to 
develop, it marks a further step in the 
Group’s strategy to further expand its 
international manufacturing capabilities 
into new geographic territories.
In a globally tighter regulatory 
environment and with an increasingly 
diverse operating landscape Hunting 
continues to focus on new product 
innovation and development. In the 
year, the Group integrated its global 
engineering operations, with centres 
of excellence being focused at our 
Aberdeen and Houston facilities. The 
engineering group has a clear pipeline 
of new connection products under 
development with new WEDGE-
LOCK™ and SEAL -LOCK™ designs 
either continuing or completing testing 
in the year. As part of the coordinated 
drive to be the independent supplier of 
choice for premium connection product 
lines, the Group has sanctioned the 
construction of a new development and 
testing facility in Houston. This is targeted 
at accelerating approval timescales for 
new product lines and reducing reliance 
on third party laboratory testing.
Elsewhere in the Group, in April 2012 
we concluded the sale of Field Aviation 
Company Inc, for a total consideration 
of £7.5m. 
With this disposal, the last of its aviation 
entities, Hunting is now a more focused 
energy services group.
The Group continues to recruit key 
personnel in all of its major business 
units, strengthening its core 
manufacturing, sales, human resources 
and finance functions, with the global 
workforce increasing 12% to 3,866 by 
year-end (201 1 – 3,453).
With these encouraging initiatives and 
achievements, Hunting is well positioned 
as an integrated global energy service 
group driven by innovation for our 
international customer base.
Health, Safety and Environment
During 2012 Hunting Energy Services 
recorded 8.44m personnel hours, with 
82 recordable incidents arising in the 
year. There were no fatalities in the year 
(201 1 – nil).
Outlook
Our view for 201 3 is a slow start with an 
improving second half. This conclusion is 
derived from discussions with major oil 
and gas companies, independents and 
OEM clients about their capital spend 
forecasts. Further, order intake in Q4 
2012, current backlogs, facility 
expansions, product introductions and 
inquiry levels are blended to conclude 
that 201 3 will be a year of progress.
Activity levels within our three core 
reporting divisions, Well Completion, 
Well Construction and Well Intervention 
will be driven by factors within each of 
the geographic regions they operate in:
North America
The current rig count for the US and 
Canada is 1 1% below this period in 
2012. Forecasts are evenly split between 
a rising versus a falling rig count for the 
year. Our belief is, with strong oil prices 
prevailing, it will improve modestly 
onshore and remain strong offshore. 
Further improvements in drilling and 
completions will provide increasing 
activity and product usage despite a 
lagging rig count.
Premium Connections will benefit from 
the offshore demand. Accordingly , new 
capacity will be added throughout the 
year. Mud motor usage will lag in some 
regions, climb in others but will offer little 
growth due to slower natural gas 
development.
Within the Advanced Manufacturing 
Group a number of product lines still 
retain an 1 1 to 12 month backlog 
resulting in expansion plans for the 
second half of the year.
The Subsea division will return to 
expected profitability following a year of 
“re-certification” . Its backlog has grown 
significantly with major call off from 
clients expected Q2 201 3 onward.
Our manufacturing and accessories 
activity will benefit from a new facility 
in Houma, Louisiana and the  
offshore growth.
UK and Europe
A doubling of rig activity in offshore UK 
combined with renewed and new supply 
contracts, Hunting is optimistic about 
year-over-year growth in this region. New 
facilities for fracking equipment and 
explosives bunkering are in place with 
steady inquiries resulting. Again, some 
product demand exceeds our ability to 
supply and efforts are underway to solve 
the issue.
Middle East and Asia Pacific
Both regions expect growth in rig count 
and both regions will be providing a 
larger complement of Hunting products. 
Fracking equipment and explosives 
distribution will be in place with 
manufacturing in China. Additional 
capacity has been placed in Singapore 
with new sales efforts in Australia, 
Indonesia, Pakistan and India.
The Board is mindful of the geopolitical 
and economic issues which can 
negatively impact our markets. Further, 
the ability to hire/train key personnel 
remains a difficult task inherent to all in 
the oil and gas industry . Clients change 
plans, projects are delayed and 
competition can become hungrier. 
Against a backdrop which is robust and 
where timings remain unclear, the Group 
is well positioned for further international 
expansion and business growth.
