 Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012
04
Hunting at a Glance
Hunting’ s three main manufacturing divisions 
cover the entire wellbore, from surface 
equipment to fracturing, from the beginning 
of the well’ s life cycle to the end, with its 
Well Construction, Well Completion and 
Well Intervention business units.
Meeting  
market demand
Our Clients 
We work with the international and 
national oil companies in all the major 
producing regions of the world as well  
as with all the major energy service 
companies and independent operators  
in the principal producing regions.
Well Construction 
We provide products and services related 
to the initial drilling and construction 
phase of the wellbore. This division 
includes Hunting’s new Advanced 
Manufacturing Group comprised of 
Hunting Innova, Hunting Dearborn 
and Hunting Doffing. The division also 
includes casing connection technologies 
with premium proprietary threads; 
annular pressure release systems; MWD/
LWD components; roller reamer, 
non-magnetic drill collars; vibration 
dampening units and mud motors.
The Group’ s Premium Connection 
business manufactures a range of 
connections including the Group’ s in 
house designed SEAL -LOCK™ and 
WEDGE-LOCK™. These proprietary 
premium connections and associated 
technologies are well suited to challenging 
offshore environments and onshore  
shale plays.
Hunting’s Drilling Tools business 
provides mud motors, shock tools, 
non-magnetic drill collars and other 
technologies that assist in the efficient 
drilling of oil and gas wells. Demand 
for these products is being driven by 
shale drilling activities in North America 
and through international sales in  
the Middle East and Asia Pacific.  
Hunting Equipment Management 
Services (“HEMS”) provides downhole 
rental tools and equipment into the 
European market and is pursuing 
additional market opportunities in the 
Middle East/North Africa region.
Hunting’s Oil Country Tubular Goods 
(“OCTG”) business includes casing 
products and management services.  
The Group has key relationships with 
steel manufacturers to facilitate just-in-
time logistics and inventory. Hunting has 
the technology, resources, established 
mill relationships and experience to 
supply all tubular needs on time, 
anywhere in the world.
Casing & Connection 
T echnologies Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012
05
Well Completion 
This division is a global manufacturer 
of accessories, premium tubing, 
connections and OCTG-related products 
and services that are manufactured at 41 
centres around the world for the 
completion phase of the wellbore. The 
division provides products, proprietary 
technologies, engineering expertise 
and services below the wellhead. The 
acquisition of Hunting Titan puts the 
Group into the design, manufacture 
and distribution of perforating systems, 
energetics, associated tools and MWD/
LWD wireline logging equipment. It  
also provides a network of distribution 
centres to satisfy the short order 
demand that characterise onshore 
field operations.
Premium tubing is supplied into the 
energy industry for both conventional and 
unconventional extraction from the shale 
plays of North America to the established 
offshore arenas and emerging regions, 
including East Africa and the Middle East.
Hunting’ s Well Completion division also 
includes a thread protection group that 
provides protection solutions including 
SealLube™ thread compound, Preserve-
A-Thread corrosion protection and 
CLEAR-RUN™ an environmentally safe 
advanced tubular solution for use in zero 
emission environments.
Well Intervention 
This division manufactures equipment 
for the maintenance and restoration 
of producing wells to ensure the 
optimum flow of oil or gas throughout 
the well life cycle. 
Organic growth and acquisition has 
allowed for the integration of our 
extensive range of pressure control 
equipment technologies and wireline 
and slickline products coupled with the 
Group’s expertise and experience. 
The Group is widely regarded within 
the oil and gas industry as one of 
the leading providers of Thru-Tubing 
services for downhole solutions for  
the coiled tubing business. Thru-Tubing 
technology aligns with the suite of  
well intervention tools that are now 
packaged and deployed to operating 
customers throughout the world. 
The Subsea technologies capability 
includes chemical injection systems, 
hydraulic valves and couplings.
Mud Motors
MWD/L WD T ools &  
Logging Equipment
OEM Perforating
