 Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012
06
Chairman’ s Statement
“ Despite the world economic 
uncertainty , global demand for 
energy continued to grow . ”
The Group has had another successful 
year of further expansion as management 
integrate the activities of the companies 
acquired in 201 1 and continue to invest 
substantial capital in new facilities.
Underlying profit before tax from 
continuing operations in 2012 was 
£123.6m (201 1 – £79.8m), a 55% 
increase. Reported profit before tax  
from continuing operations was  
£80.7m (201 1 – £38.8m).
Despite the world economic uncertainty , 
global demand for energy continued to 
grow in the year. The industry we serve 
needs not only to provide for that growth 
but also to replace rapidly depleting 
reserves, leading to increasing demand 
for our sophisticated and highly 
engineered products.
Within that general picture, the great 
success of new methods of extracting 
unconventional oil and gas (‘the shale 
revolution’) has had extraordinary effects, 
particularly in the US. The resulting excess 
supply of natural gas has led to low US 
prices for that commodity , but similar 
drilling and production methods are being 
applied to ‘shale oil’ . The result is that 
crude oil production in the US is rising 
after many years of decline.
The Group is well placed in the shale 
revolution, particularly following the 
201 1 acquisition of Hunting Titan, and is 
actively exporting their technology to 
other areas of shale potential such as 
Europe and the Far East.
Activity in the Gulf of Mexico has fully 
returned to the levels it enjoyed prior to 
the tragic Macondo incident of 2010. Our 
facilities serving that market are stretched, 
with further expansion under way . In 
Europe, the North Sea is busy and, once 
again, several of our recently expanded 
facilities are experiencing high utilisation. 
Similarly , our activities in South-East Asia 
and in China are moving ahead strongly .
Within Hunting Energy Services, Well 
Construction activities had another 
highly successful year – emphasising 
the deep strength of several of the core 
activities we have been developing 
over many years. Well Completion, 
the largest contributor, had a satisfactory 
year with profits well ahead of 201 1. 
The smaller Well Intervention activity 
reported continued volatility in the year, 
however activity levels are anticipated 
to improve across the coming year. Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012
07
“ Capital expenditure on new 
and replacement facilities was 
even greater in 201 2 than in  
the previous year . ”
For over 70 years, the Group has had 
a small oil exploration and production 
business in the southern US. We have 
decided to produce from existing 
wells but not to invest further in new 
exploration and production projects, 
except as contractually committed.
Gibson Shipbrokers, a world leader in its 
industry , did well to produce fine results 
in difficult and highly volatile markets.
Shareholders of longer standing will 
know that the Group once had many 
aviation-related activities in its stable. The 
last of these, the Canadian company Field 
Aviation, was sold during the year to the 
management. We wish the company 
every success in the future.
Capital expenditure on new and 
replacement facilities in 2012 was even 
greater than in the previous year. Despite 
this, the Group generated more than  
£54.6m of cash with the result that net 
debt reduced by a similar amount. The 
balance sheet is in excellent shape, with 
financial gearing reduced during the 
year from 30% to 20%.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 
from continuing operations were 57 .5p 
(201 1 – 38.7p), an increase of 49% on the 
previous year. Reported diluted earnings 
per share from continuing operations 
were 40.0p (201 1 – 20.3p).
We are recommending a final dividend 
for 2012 of 1 4.0p per share, payable on 
1 July 201 3 to shareholders on the register 
on 14 June 201 3, giving a total of 18.5p 
for the year, a 23% increase.
Your Company has once again had 
a good year in strong markets and I 
am confident we will be able to take 
advantage of further developments 
in this exciting industry .
I thank all our staff throughout the 
world for our continued success.
Richard Hunting C.B.E.
Chairman
7 March 201 3
Captions L-R:
Precision machining.
Multiple part assembly.
Design engineering are 
features of Hunting 
products.
Dividend per share (p) 
18.5p    +23%
1 8.5
1 5.0
1 2.0
10.5
11
10
09
12
