 8
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
This has been a transformational year 
for the Group following the acquisitions 
of ControlCircle and Intercept IT, 
completing the transition of the business 
to an IT Managed Services company 
spanning the full spectrum from device 
to datacentre. Cash generation remains 
strong enabling us to reduce significantly 
net debt from the peak at the time of 
the acquisitions. We have increased 
dividends during the year, with the full 
year dividend up 12%.
The major operational highlights have been as follows:
•	 Continued gains in market share in key growth areas:
– Mobile subscribers increased 12% to 91,391 (2013: 
81,396)
– Advanced Solutions organic revenues were up 3% to 
£39.1m
•	 Good progress on the integration of the two acquired 
companies with the cross-sell benefits already being 
evident with over 25 contracts signed to date with 
contracted gross profit in excess of £0.6m
•	 Significant development of our customer portals as we 
look to integrate Synapse with the acquired portals
Financial Results
Group reported revenues at £137.8m were 20% ahead of 
2013, with organic revenues of £114.2m in line with the prior 
year (2013: £114.3m), and up 1% after the reduction in Mobile 
bonus revenue is excluded. 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT contributed £23.6m revenue 
and £10.0m gross profit to the group results. Group reported 
gross profit increased 27% to £56.8m (2013: £44.8m) with a 
corresponding increase in gross margin from 39.2% to 41.2%. 
The key underlying drivers of this were in mobile telephony, 
where margins have benefited from the new commercial 
arrangements signed in 2014. Margins per product set are 
reviewed in more detail below. Gross margins across the Group 
in the second half of the year rose to 42.5%, an all-time high for 
the business.  9
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group reported adjusted operating profits were up 17% to 
£17.6m (2013: £15.0m), with organic adjusted operating profits 
up 5%. This reflects the improvement in gross margins above 
and further investment made in sales and marketing. 
On a statutory basis, pre-tax profits decreased £2.1m (17%) to 
£10.4m, primarily as a result of exceptional acquisition costs 
incurred in the year. The adjustments are shown in the income 
statement, and also detailed in Note 28.
Cash generation continues to be excellent. Net cash generated 
from operations was £16.2m (2013: £14.4m) representing 82% 
of adjusted EBITDA in the period (2013: 91%). Underlying cash 
generation was £19.5m giving an underlying cash conversion of 
99%. Free cash flow was £11.7m (2013: £10.3m) after servicing 
the loan payments and increased capital investment, enabling 
the Group to reduce net debt from a high of £40.8m to £29.3m. 
Adjusted earnings per share increased 9% to 26.9 pence 
and, on a fully diluted basis, increased 15% to 26.4 pence. 
The statutory or unadjusted fully diluted earnings per share 
decreased 16% from 19.7p to 16.6p. A detailed reconciliation is 
set out in the trading review on page 23. 
The Group’s strong financial performance and cash generation 
has enabled the Board to maintain its progressive dividend 
policy, with a final dividend of 9.6 pence being proposed. The 
result is a total ordinary dividend for the year of 14.5 pence per 
share (2013: 13.0 pence per share), representing an increase of 
12% (not including the 2013 special dividend payment). Looking 
ahead, the Board has reaffirmed its intention to progress to an 
annual dividend growth of 15% with no less than 10% growth 
per annum.
ControlCircle and Intercept IT
Alternative acquired Intercept IT on 9 January 2014 for £12.5m 
and ControlCircle on 23 January 2014 for £39.3m in cash. Both 
businesses have performed strongly since acquisition, proving 
the anticipated benefits to the combined group. In total £23.6m 
of revenue and £10.0m of gross profit and EBITDA of £2.8m 
was recognised in 2014 relating to the acquisitions.
ControlCircle revenue from 23 January 2014 to 30 September 
2014 was £16.6m, 10% ahead of the level recognised in the 
equivalent prior year period, reflecting the ongoing momentum 
in the business and adjusted EBITDA margins were up from 8% 
in the first half to 13% in H2 as we have started to integrate the 
business. ControlCircle has signed a number of new customers 
including a global insurance company plus completion of a 
number of ongoing projects for existing customers which has 
bolstered the level of recurring revenue going forward.
Intercept IT revenue from 1 January 2014 to 30 September 
2014 was £7.0m; 18% ahead of the level recognised in the 
equivalent prior year period. This reflects the momentum in the 
business as it is wins notable new contracts including most 
recently a major contract for a global roll out with a “magic 
circle” law firm. Profitability has also improved with adjusted 
EBITDA margins approaching 12% up from 1% in the prior year.
Considerable cross-sell opportunities exist across the Group 
resulting from the acquisitions, in all product areas and industry 
verticals. We have now won 25 contracts with £0.63m first 
year contracted margin. This includes the sizeable deal with 
Lark insurance to provide services from Intercept IT hosted 
by ControlCircle in addition to the fixed line, mobile and WAN 
products that Alternative already supplied. The pipeline has 
grown with now 223 deals up from just over 150 at the interim 
stage, and these are worth £2.3m first year contracted margin. 
I am very pleased to report a strong 
performance by the Group throughout 
the year. We are delivering innovative 
and relevant solutions to our existing 
customers, increasing our ability to 
retain them and cross-sell them more 
products, and are now penetrating a 
broader range of new prospects. 10
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
We have made reasonable progress on integration with the 
back office functions of finance, marketing, HR and IT all 
quickly integrated. The professional services teams and some 
operations teams have been combined, and the customer 
management teams have been integrated. As a result of the 
integration to date we have 5% fewer staff, in spite of increasing 
the sales team by four heads.
Overall we are pleased with progress and remain confident in 
meeting expectations.
Outlook
2014 was a transformational year for Alternative. Our underlying 
commercial success was complemented by two acquisitions 
which have delivered significant value, both financially, and 
more importantly strategically, because they have immediately 
positioned us a market leading IT service business, able to 
deliver end to end solutions to a larger and more receptive 
customer base.
We have seen encouraging and improving levels of cross-selling 
with the new businesses, as well as in the rest of the group, 
and we have finished FY 2014 with a record quarter in terms of 
business signed. This means we have started the new financial 
year with a good following wind. We go into financial year 2015 
with confidence, as unlike many previous years, we have all the 
people and skills and customers in place from which to deliver 
further growth. The improved profitable performance in the 
second half of 2014 together with the high recurring revenue 
levels in the group mean that the Board approaches 2015 
confident that the business can generate increased levels of 
growth in this financial year. The first weeks of 2015 show signs 
that the momentum carried through the previous quarter is 
continuing and provide sound encouragement. 
Trading Review
The Group has traded well, with continued growth in the 
Advanced Solutions and Mobile telephony products and 
services, which together now account for nearly 80% of 
Group revenues on a proforma basis. The revenue mix across 
the Group has improved as a result of acquired and organic 
growth, previously, Advanced Solutions and Mobile telephony 
accounted for 70% of group revenues. This means a reduction 
in the percentage of revenue relating to legacy Fixed Voice 
services, which is in managed decline. 
Gross profit for the organic business grew 5% to £46.8m (2013: 
£44.7m). The gross profit had been in line for the 3 years 2011 
to 2013.
Advanced Solutions
Advanced Solutions revenues increased by 65% to £62.7m as 
a result of inclusion of ControlCircle and Intercept IT combined 
with organic growth which contributed increases of £16.6m, 
£7.0m and £1.2m respectively over the previous year. 
On an organic basis the existing Alternative business revenue 
was £39.1m, 3% ahead of the prior year, as a result of growth in 
the first and second half of the year at 5% and 1% respectively. 
Whilst the rate of growth was lower in the second half of the 
year, this lower growth reflects a particularly strong second half 
in 2013. Organic revenue in the second half of 2014 was 17% 
up on the first half of 2014. 
There is good momentum as the level of customer orders 
signed in the second half was 6% ahead of the equivalent prior 
year’s period and 13% ahead of those achieved in the first half. 
This has resulted in a record backlog at 30 September 2014 
(£3.8m in hardware). The revenue growth resulted from all 
Advanced Solutions*
Revenue
2014 2013 Change
Reported Underlying Reported
Non Recurring
   
Hardware / Software
21.1 15.3 15.6 36%
Professional Services
5.9 2.7 2.5 135%
Subtotal
27.0 18.0 18.1 49%
Recurring
   
Maintenance
10.7 10.7 10.6 1%
Data/WAN
6.3 6.3 5.3 19%
Colocation
1.6 - - 100%
Managed Hosting
13.1 - - 100%
Billing
4.0 4.0 3.9 3%
Subtotal
35.6 21.0 19.8 80%
Total 
62.7 39.1 37.9 65%
Gross Margins 2014 2013 Change
Reported Underlying Reported
Hardware / Software
23% 27% 26% -300bps
Professional Services
59% 78% 78% -1900bps
Recurring
45% 38% 43% 200bps
Advanced Solutions
39% 36% 38% 200bps
* In order to facilitate understanding of business performance, the Group splits 
out its operating KPIs, both financial and non-financial into three distinct revenue 
groupings. These are Mobile, Fixed Line and Advanced Solutions. These enable 
users to benchmark the Group’s performance against competitors and enable the 
Board to control more clearly the underlying drivers to the Group’s business. The 
acquisitions of ControlCircle and Intercept IT are reported in Advanced Solutions 
and have no impact on the Mobile or Fixed Line. For avoidance of doubt, the 
business does not operate separate trading divisions but sells a converged product 
offering, with teams of sales and service organised according to customer size as 
previously explained. 11
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
areas, and new orders have been generated across the portfolio 
but there have been some notable areas of success, particularly 
in higher education, where the Group has signed contracts with 
15 universities and 21 colleges during the year. 
As the Group is being successful with larger, more complex 
projects with bigger customers, this often results in a 
lengthening of the sales cycle from order to income recognition, 
and the projects’ complexity inevitably creates a longer delivery 
lead time. Notable contract wins with larger customers included 
a three year agreement with Menzies Distribution for LAN, WAN, 
mobile and voice and unified communication services, of which 
the LAN and WAN and mobile are new services being provided 
by Alternative. The Group has also signed a seven year contract 
with Newsquest to provide managed hosted voices services.
The product data and analysis presented includes the results of 
the acquisitions made during the year as these businesses and 
products are now integrated.
Hardware & Software
Hardware and software revenues comprise all individual non-
recurring direct sales across the Group, and increased 36% to 
£21.1m (2013: £15.6m) due to the inclusion of ControlCircle 
and Intercept IT sales of £5.8m. Gross margins of the 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT hardware and software are at 
similar levels to the remainder of the Group, but two larger deals 
contributed to a reduction in the year. 
Existing Alternative revenues were flat on the prior year, but 32% 
up on the first half, reflecting strong sales of hardware in the 
second half, including a number of installations that occurred 
over the summer. This was a good result and came from 
targeted investment in marketing and customer facing technical 
and selling skills. 
Professional Services
Professional services revenue, which is heavily orientated 
towards the installation of data hardware, increased from 
£2.5m to £5.9m, including the addition of £3.1m of sales from 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT. Existing Alternative sales grew 
by 8% as a result of the high level of hardware orders and more 
complex projects with higher levels of associated installation 
requirements.
The existing Alternative business continues to generate a 
margin of 78%, reflecting the high quality of service offered 
by the Group’s technical experts. The margin on professional 
services of ControlCircle and Intercept IT was lower due to the 
use of third party consultants to complete major contracts.
Maintenance 
Maintenance revenues were broadly in line year on year as the 
Group continues to offer this service as an ongoing component 
of longer term contracts. There has been margin pressure due 
to the competitive environment, however the Group resists 
extreme pricing pressure and has during the year experienced 
the loss of one large customer that was churned due to pricing 
at a level that would have damaged service levels. 
Data/WAN
Data services revenues increased 19% to £6.3m in 2014. This 
growth is across broadband sales to existing customers, single 
site Ethernet sales and from SIP solutions for both existing and 
new customers. Sales were boosted by a number of enterprise 
customers for whom we provide WAN solutions and expanding 
this is a priority in 2015. Margins have remained stable.
Mobile
37%
Fixed Voice
30%
Advanced 
Solutions
33%
Fixed Voice
21%
Mobile
30%
Advanced 
Solutions
49%
2013 Reported 2014 Proforma
2014 
Reported
2014 
Organic
Mobile
32%
Fixed Voice
23% Advanced 
Solutions
45%
Mobile
38%
Fixed Voice
27%
Advanced 
Solutions
34%
Revenue by product 12
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
TRADING REVIEW BY PRODUCTS
Mobile 2014 2013 Change
Revenue (£m) 43.8  42.0 4%
Mobile Bonus Revenue 2.8 3.8 -28%
Gross Profit (£m) 19.0  16.1 18%
Gross Margin % 43.3% 38.3% +500bps
    
KPIs 2014 2013 Change
Subscribers 91,391  81,396 12%
Gross new connections  25,089  19,145 31%
Recurring revenue 89% 87% 2%
Monthly ARPU (£)  39   41 -4%
Monthly ADPU (Mb)  99   68 45%
Monthly average contract 
length 24m 23m +1m
Network churn 14% 15% -100bps
Customer churn by value 11% 13% -200bps
% Subscribers 
in-contract 73% 77% -400bps
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Colocation
Colocation revenue arises purely from ControlCircle and 
consists of recurring provision of datacentre hosting services to 
customers wishing to outsource and create a more flexible cost 
base. This revenue stream is a customer entry point to our data 
centre services and the focus is on then migrating that revenue 
to more added value managed hosting services. ControlCircle 
has a relatively low level of dedicated colocation hosting 
services compared to its competitors.
Managed Hosting
Managed hosting encompasses the Group’s managed services 
offerings in all hosting, cloud and utility services. All revenues 
arise from the ControlCircle and Intercept IT acquisitions. 
Growth in this area is a key focus with both existing and new 
customers and the service offerings and levels provided by 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT are differentiators in the market. 
The ControlCircle contract signed in the year to provide these 
services to the EMEA division of a global insurer will be a 
larger driver in growth in this in 2015. High margins in this area 
represent the added value nature of the services provided.
Billing 
AKJ Billing Services revenues were up 3% to £4.0m (2013: 
£3.9m). This is as a result of further growth in sales to third 
party customers and revenue from providing a hosted 
managed billing service. Intra group work required for Group 
companies at a market value of £0.6m was in line with the 
level in 2013. This includes work on the billing system and 
the support of Synapse. Gross margins at 53% were ahead 
of expectations, as the Group maintained its high customer 
retention level and delivered more consultancy services. The 
increase on the previous year was driven by leveraging the 
existing direct cost to support the increased revenue. 
Telephony Services – Mobile
Mobile revenues
Headline mobile revenues have increased by 4% to £43.8m 
(2013: £42.0m), as the group continues to take significant 
market share. Underlying revenue growth in the year was 8%, 
the difference being due to the change in the commercial 
agreements with the networks, Vodafone and O2, in the year, 
with the reduction of “bonus” revenues as both are now on a 
revenue share basis. The Group will cease to receive connection 
bonuses in exchange for a greater share of the ongoing revenue 
which has impacted the revenue in the second half of the 
financial year and will have a similar impact in the first half of the 
coming financial year. The impact on margin is outlined below. 
These new commercial agreements run until March 2018 when 
they are expected to be renewed. 
There was high growth in the contract base with a 12% 
increase in subscribers to 91,391 since 30 September 2013. 
This is mostly on the back of new connections being over 30% 
higher than the previous year at 25,089 (2013: 19,145), another 
record level for the Group, reaffirming the on-going success in 
winning market share in a flat overall market. The success was 
also underlined by lower churn rates explained below.
Mobile margins
Mobile gross margins have increased significantly to 43.3% 
from 38.3% mostly as a result of the benefits of the new 
commercial arrangements in 2014, but also positive factors 
such as the value added from the Synapse service platform 
and a stabilising of ARPU in the year. The new contracts have 
improved the mobile margin and going forward we expect gross 
margins between 42% and 44%. 13
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Mobile operating KPIs
The performance in the key metrics of Monthly “ARPU” and 
“ADPU” and churn are set out below and represent a strong 
performance in a very competitive market. 
•	 “ARPU” represents the average spends in line rental 
and usage charges per live connection per month in 
the Group’s contracted base of subscribers. ARPU 
has reduced by circa £2 (4%) to £39. The key factors 
underpinning this trend are the reduction in rental charges 
associated with more bundled packages and the price 
deflation seen in this area which is being offset by 
increased data usage with the ongoing shift from voice to 
data usage. Declines in voice ARPU total approximately £2 
ARPU across rental charges. Although roaming data ARPU 
is still dampened by the regulatory changes to roaming 
prices introduced in 2013 the trend has returned to growth 
with roaming outside of the EU driving the ARPU up. It 
is worth noting that the ARPU in H2 was £39; the same 
level as H1. The continuing high growth in data usage is 
beginning to have an impact as set out below:
•	 “ADPU” represents the average data usage per live 
connection per month in the Group’s contracted base 
of subscribers. The average ADPU for the period has 
increased by 45% to 99Mb demonstrating the rapid growth 
in data usage. The growth in data usage can be attributed 
to a number of factors including:
– Increase in the number of “Smartphones” within the 
base with the migration away from standard feature 
phones and Blackberry devices to higher usage 
devices. In the mobile base the average per user 
usage of an Apple handset is circa 250mb of data 
per month compared to 150Mb on a Blackberry 
and circa 30Mb on a standard feature phone. As at 
September 2014, Smartphones represented 69% of 
the subscriber base up from 61% in September 2013.
– The move from 3G to 4G networks. Although the 
penetration remains lower we are seeing early 
adopters ADPU at more than 6 times the average 
usage and 2.5 times that seen on a 3G Apple device.
•	 Churn: 
– Churn by value, which illustrates the retention value 
of all contracted customers to the Group, has 
again improved year on year, at 11% (2013: 13%) 
setting a market leading benchmark, where the 
broader industry sees churn levels of 20% to 25% 
and demonstrates the value the Group provides to 
customers.
– Network churn was 14% which is down 1% reduction 
on 2013 (2013: 15%) and down from the 17% at 
March 2014. This latter trend is due to reducing 
level of network switching (which does not impact 
Alternative’s revenues or margins). This year we 
have also seen a much higher churn on data cards. 
This has happened not surprisingly as the new 
smartphones can act as a tethered hot-spot or 
replace the “dongle” using Bluetooth functionality. The 
impact in value terms on the other churn metric is not 
significant as the ARPU on these data only devices 
is low. Year on year this is an excellent performance 
in a very competitive marketplace where it is easy to 
switch between networks. The generally high retention 
is as a result of the overall customer experience 
covering the service offering and the benefits of 
Synapse.
TRADING REVIEW BY PRODUCTS
Fixed Voice 2014 2013 Change
Revenue (£m) 31.3  34.4 -9%
Gross Profit (£m) 13.7  14.4 -5%
Gross Margin % 44% 42% +200bps
KPIs 2014 2013 Change
Outbbound Monthly 
ARPU (£) 1,421  1,423 -
WLR as a % of total 
revenues 52% 52% -
% recurring revenues 97% 97% -
Number of lines/channels 
(inc. SIP) 70,027 76,643 -6%
SIP lines 7,424 4,076 82%
Average customer 
contract length (months) 24m 22m +2m 14
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The market is two-tier on legacy fixed voice services. The 
networks are still focussing on other carriers’ traffic as well as 
the corporate end user and these are typically in decline by mid 
single digit rates, year on year (4-6%). The resellers and service 
providers are largely migrating their customers away from 
digital and analogue voice to IP services at a faster rate and the 
market trends are for annual revenue reductions in the order of 
low double digit (10-14%). We consider our performance this 
year to be more than satisfactory given the market context.
The Group manages its fixed voice services in the context of 
the declining market place whilst improving market share and 
profitability, and proactively migrates customers to SIP based 
telephony. In the year the number of SIP lines has increased by 
82% from 4,076 to 7,424. 
Overall fixed voice revenues are down 9% year on year to 
£31.3m, as a result of the move to SIP combined with the on-
going market performance. Outbound and inbound revenues 
were down 10% and 8% respectively on the prior year as a 
result of a reduced level of call spends to mobiles, regulatory 
price reductions and the continuing move to email and mobile. 
However, gross margin performance was strong, with an 
increase of 200 basis points to 44%. 
Telephony Services – Fixed Voice
Outbound services  
Outbound revenues decreased 10% to £24.0m (2013: £26.5m). 
The underlying performance was in line with industry trends as 
the reduction in call spends to mobiles, due to regulatory price 
reductions, and a move to email, mobile and IP based telephony, 
continues to cannibalise traditional office based telephony 
revenues. Usage revenues per customer were in line year on year, 
as the Group churn has been generally at the lower level of ARPU 
customers which has offset usage decline.
Outbound ARPU has remained flat at £1,421. Average contract 
periods are now 2 months longer than the prior year increasing 
the viability of future revenues.
Wholesale Line Rental (‘WLR’) revenues declined 10% to £11.7m 
from £14.0m. The number of lines in the estate declined by 8% to 
70,392; some of these were non or low billing analogue lines that 
we have helped customers identify using Synapse. The ongoing 
to transition to SIP has progressed well with an 82% rise in SIP 
lines. 
Inbound services
Inbound services revenue at £7.3m was 8% below the prior year. 
This fall results primarily from a 4% reduction in the customer 
base during the year, including the loss of one large, low margin, 
customer, and a 2% fall in average ARPU. The revenue decline 
stabilised in the second half of the year, with revenues at the 
same level as the first half, as increases in NGN products 
compensated for the reduction in customer traffic revenues. As 
a consequence, whilst gross profit was down 9% to £3.0m year 
on year, it grew 15% in the second half of the year. Gross margins 
for inbound services are broadly level year on year but include the 
changing balance towards NGN in the second half of the year.
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 15
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Strategic Review
The financial performance of the Group, including revenues and 
profits and cash flows and net debt is set out in the Financial 
Review. A discussion of the KPIs of the Group are included in 
the Trading Review.
The Group operates in the UK Telecomms and Information 
Technology (IT) market as an IT Managed Services company 
covering the full spectrum between device and datacentre. 
The Group’s strategy remains unchanged and is to deliver 
growth organically and through acquisitions, to become the 
managed IT services provider of choice for UK businesses.
Organic growth 
The Group continues to build successfully on the following four 
key areas of focus to deliver for continued organic growth:
•	 Winning larger customers in the SME space and targeting 
Enterprise customers;
•	 Using service and Synapse combined with acquired 
portals to drive customer retention across the wider 
product set;
•	 Cross-selling and up selling of products across our 
customer base; and
•	 Product development and innovation to increase value to 
our customer base.
Winning larger customers in the SME space and targeting 
Enterprise customers
Our target customers are in the mid enterprise market, 
particularly those customers with multi-sites and with 80 to 
1000 employees. With a broadened product base, there are 
multiple entry points to these customers. 
The Group has two distinct sales and technical support teams 
which target:
•	 Enterprise customers for those customers with more than 
500 employees,
•	 Business Markets customers with up to 500 employees. 
In addition to this we have a partner channel sales arm, which 
is focused on winning smaller customers' business through 
selected partners.
We continue to focus on winning larger customers (a larger 
customer being classified as having a monthly spend in 
excess of £1,000). Going forward, the data will include the 
acquired customer bases, but for the purposes of immediate 
comparison, the data below is for the underlying base. 
At the period end the Group had 1,136 larger enterprise 
customers (30 September 2013: 1,157). 82 new larger 
customers were added during the year and 76 existing 
customers increased their monthly spend above the £1,000 
threshold. 53 larger customers churned during the period and 
126 decreased spend below the threshold. The proportion of 
large customers to the total base has increased from 35% to 
37%.
We continue to focus on 
winning larger customers  16
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The average monthly spend of these customers increased 
5% to £5,663 (2013: £5,408). Given that the general trend for 
customer spend is deflationary, the increase is testament to the 
Group’s success in cross-selling new products and attracting 
larger customers.
As at September 2014 ControlCircle had 58 customers, of 
which 54 are large (billing more than £1,000 per month), and 
Intercept IT had a total of 83 customers, of which 46 are 
considered to be large. 
Using service and Synapse combined with acquired 
portals to drive improved customer retention across the 
wider product set
The acquisition of ControlCircle and Intercept IT brought 
customer portals to the Group that complement Synapse and 
give complete coverage from device to datacentre. We have 
started the process of bringing these together, with all customer 
facing portals now available from the Synapse homepage. 
These additional portals have delivered a significant expansion 
of our visibility and control suite which is a key platform for 
Alternative’s customer engagement strategy. 
Development of Synapse
The primary focus for Synapse during the year has been 
improving the customer end user experience. The main 
improvements were around performance and reporting, dealing 
with many specific requests. Synapse continues to contribute 
positively to our above market mobile growth (8% revenue 
growth versus Ofcom decline of 1%), and to complement this 
we have directly integrated Synapse into Wandera’s Mobile Data 
Optimisation tool. 
Delivering customer led improvement and a targeted 
communications plan has delivered strong usage metrics in 
2014:
•	 Monthly usage has grown 25% to more than 15,000 logins 
per month
•	 More than 1,000 customers with 2,000 users per month 
with increased usage with both Enterprise and Business 
Markets customers
•	 50% of SIM free orders and 22% of overall tickets now fully 
automated through Synapse
•	 4,000 Mobile SIM transactions performed direct by 
customers each month 
•	 Live Chat usage has increased 100% since last year
Further improvements to Synapse in 2014/15
Mobility is the key theme for Synapse development in the next 
year, both in terms of the management of a mobile fleet, and the 
provision of access to core features 'on the go'. This will provide 
customers greater visibility and control, delivering improved 
flexibility, cost savings and productivity. 
'On the go' access to Synpase will also be introduced this year, 
the initial focus will be features such as Mobile SIM management 
(barring), mobile bolt-ons, alerts and current spend. We are 
also looking to extend the Live Chat experience to mobile too, 
so that customers can interact directly with their support team, 
regardless of location.  
Monthly usage of Synapse 
has grown 25%, with Live 
Chat usage increasing 
100% since last year 
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 17
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Wider development of acquired portals
The acquisition of ControlCircle brought the Max 3000 portal 
into the Alternative Group and Intercept IT gave us the customer 
portal ControlPanel. Further development of these portals is part 
of the ongoing strategy, and since acquisition there have been 
the following developments:
•	 Launch of MaxCloud to allow the monitoring as a service for 
Amazon Web Services
•	 Developments to Hybrix will allow seamless orchestration 
with AWS and private environments alongside existing, 
which will allow a customer to spin up a virtual machine, 
wherever they want 
Alternative Business Cloud 
The acquisitions and the tooling we already have in place have 
created the foundations for a combined platform – Alternative 
Business Cloud. This will be the next generation of our portal, 
aimed at both staff and customers alike and covering our entire 
portfolio. It will be a vehicle to bring all our products and services 
into the cloud to deliver our proposition moving forward.
Cross-selling and up selling of products across our 
customer base
A key part of our organic growth strategy remains to exploit 
cross-selling opportunities within the group to improve product 
penetration and sell more, higher value products to both new 
and existing customers, and again we have seen a sustained 
resilience in high product penetration. The acquisitions of 
ControlCircle and Intercept IT have also significantly enhanced 
the Group’s ability to cross-sell in 2014, as proven by the base 
customer statistics. 
Within the underlying Alternative base the number of customers 
taking more than one product year on year has been retained 
at 46% and the proportion taking five or more products has 
increased from 5% to 7%. 
Of the customers who churned in the year, more than 50% were 
billing less than £100 per month (average of £430 per month), 
whereas of the customers won during the year, only 24% were 
billing less than £100 per month. The average billing for new 
customers to the Group was circa £2,000 per month, more than 
four times the average churned customer level. 
Product development and innovation to increase value to 
our customer base 
The integration of the product and service teams of the Group 
with the acquired teams is complete and we have been working 
to unify the Group portfolio under a common set of service 
description documentation and terms and conditions. 
The main developments in the year can been seen in the table 
overleaf. 18
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Next 6 months Next 6 months Next 6 months
In the next period our commitment to 
competitiveness and development of innovative 
tariffs continues. 
Our technology development will improve access 
for mobile users to corporate networks. Mobile 
technology will also be used to expand customer 
connectivity via M2M functionality. 
Our focus on supporting customers in their 
migration from traditional ISDN to the next 
generation of voice services will continue in the 
next period. 
We will work to increase the level of control and 
value that customers receive from Alternative voice 
services. 
Over the next period we will continue to invest 
in our UCaaS product line, leveraging the wider 
group capabilities to increase differentiation and 
target the enterprise market. 
Development of our cloud based ‘as a Service’ 
products and managed service remains a focus 
as we move into 2015. Our objective is to reduce 
technical complexity of solutions for customers in 
per user consumption models. 
Alternative Business Cloud 
will be our next generation 
of portal, aimed at both 
customers and staff alike
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
MOBILE VOICE ADVANCED SOLUTIONS
Year to September 2014 Year to September 2014 Year to September 2014
Mobile product development has focused on 
services that improve security of corporate data 
and protect against financial exposure, due to 
increased mobile data consumption. Our service 
portfolio now includes: 
Mobile Device Management
to securely manage devices. 
Mobile Application Management 
to ensure users have access to appropriate 
business applications.
Mobile Data Offloading 
to manage mobile data usage. 
Our commitment to market competitiveness has 
remained strong with continued focus on tariffing 
and data sharing packages that have seen high 
levels of uptake. 
With a higher than usual change to regulatory 
status, due in the next period, Alternative has 
focused on ensuring customer readiness for 
the impending changes. Informing customers 
of the practical implications of the changes and 
establishing strategies to adapt. 
Our IP Trunking (SIP) business has grown steadily 
further to a re-invigorated proposition. 
The integration of the SIP proposition into a Unified 
Communications as a Service (UCaaS) product will 
support continued growth. The product meeting 
customer demand for a simpler consumption 
based UC model. 
The launch of MITEL’s, MiCloud UCaaS 
product, delivers a cloud based UC solution that 
complements the Group’s wider cloud based 
capability. The service allows customers to 
consume UC on a per user per month basis. 
The cloud based product allowing SIP and WAN 
services to be delivered as part of the solution, 
reducing the complexity of deployment for a 
customer. 
HP Ethernet switching products have also been 
introduced to the portfolio extending our reach into 
the SME market and complimenting the existing 
Juniper and Extreme portfolio. 
Developments in 2014 19
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Acquisitions
The Group successfully completed two acquisitions in January 
2014, in line with the above strategy. The first business 
acquired was Intercept IT which has two core propositions; it 
is an established provider of hosted desktop solutions to the 
UK SME market SMEs; and it consults, designs, builds and 
runs ‘on premise’ managed solutions for Enterprise customers 
requiring datacentre virtualisation and cloud based desktop 
services. The second business acquired was ControlCircle a 
provider of complex hosting, cloud and datacentre services to 
enterprise customers. Both acquisitions met the Group’s long 
standing and consistently strict criteria for acquisitions which 
are as follows:
•	 targets must be successful, growing, highly cash 
generative, and profitable;
•	 they need to have customers that provide cross-selling 
opportunities for the Group; and
•	 they need to be earnings enhancing in the first full year of 
ownership. 
The Group’s cash generative nature has facilitated the 
significant reduction in net debt since the acquisitions. This, 
combined with the strong balance sheet leaves us well 
placed to capitalise on further opportunities and the Group 
continues to monitor the market proactively for further “right-fit” 
acquisitions. Acquisitions are being targeted to complement 
the existing products and to further expand our capabilities and 
product set in the Advanced Solutions area, with a focus on 
managed and hosted services. While we remain on the lookout 
for exceptional opportunities, we expect our activity in this area 
to increase in the second half of 2015.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Managing the financial, operational and reputational risks across 
our business and operations is critical to our success. Below 
we highlight the identified key areas of risk that are monitored 
on an ongoing basis. The Group’s risk management framework 
requires a regular review of the key risks facing the Group.
Contracts with suppliers
The Group resells the products of its suppliers and whilst many 
of the Group’s products are supplier agnostic and there exists 
a freedom to substitute various suppliers’ products, the Group 
acknowledges that it has reliance in particular on the contracts 
with the mobile networks, O2 and Vodafone. During the course 
of this year, the Group has extended its managed service 
agreement until 30 September 2015, and had extended the O2 
service provision agreement until 31 July 2015. The Vodafone 
service agreement runs until 31 March 2014.
The Group mitigates this risk by maintaining strong relationships 
with its suppliers at various levels of the business, as well as 
paying close attention to ensuring the expectations of suppliers 
are met, and where possible exceeded. 
Acquisition integration execution
The Group has set out that its strategy includes the acquisition 
of businesses where they are earnings enhancing. The Board 
acknowledges that there is a risk of operational disturbance 
in the course of integrating acquired businesses with existing 
operations. The Group mitigates this risk by careful planning, 
rigorous due diligence and segregation of the target operations 
where possible. Where there is full integration of acquired 
businesses, the Group receives a report on the effectiveness of 
the integration and variances from business plan.  20
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
All acquisitions to date have been fully integrated, with the 
exception of AKJ where an independent IT infrastructure is 
essential to its customer offering.
Technological change 
The Group operates in a market of rapid and dynamic 
technology changes, and there is a risk that the Group fails 
to secure the necessary contracts to supply its customers 
with a new technology (disruptive) which substitutes existing 
technology. 
The Group mitigates this risk by maintaining close relationships 
with its suppliers, and by employing a product marketing 
team whose duties include research, review and procurement 
of appropriate new technology products for testing prior to 
release to our customers.
Ability to continue to attract and retain key 
sales and customer management executives 
The Group is a direct sales and marketing business and 
whilst the revenues of the Group are largely recurring on a 
monthly basis, the Group depends on being able to recruit and 
retain staff of the right calibre in order to win and service key 
contracts. 
The Group has sought to mitigate this risk by investing in a 
succession and training plan for career development, and 
improving the employee benefits and remuneration over the 
last three years, including commissions, and specifically share 
options and pension contributions. 
The Board monitors the results of exit interviews, recruitment 
statistics and staff attrition by department on a regular basis. 
Regulatory risk
The Group acknowledges that the pricing of products and 
services can be affected by regulatory bodies in the UK and 
the EU. In recent years, pence per minute pricing from fixed to 
mobile destinations and EU Roaming mobile voice and data 
retail prices have been substantially altered.  
The Board believes that where the pricing regulations are 
directed at wholesale prices, the Group is more able to mitigate 
the risk through its own buying and pricing policies. Where the 
regulator imposes price caps at the retail level, the Group is 
more exposed to a reduction in margin where the operators do 
not substantially reduce their wholesale prices. 
The Group mitigates the risks by careful and detailed research 
on the future regulations, and has been involved in lobbying 
where applicable. The Group will assess each risk and build it 
into its forecasts of income as soon as possible and will amend 
its pricing policies accordingly.
Fresh from a management buyout in 2012, the UK Top 40 
insurance broker Lark turned its attention to technology. 
Lark’s aim was to create a more dynamic, resilient and 
adaptive infrastructure across the organisation—one that 
reinvented the user experience via improved performance 
and new technology, transformed the disaster recovery 
plans using data replication, and provided enhanced 
enterprise mobility. The desired business outcome? Make 
it easier for Lark to deliver ‘made to measure’ insurance 
services, dedicated to customer service and building 
personalised, lasting customer relationships that also 
support the onboarding of future acquisitions.
Alternative acquisitions form centrepiece of Lark’s 
managed service solution
An existing satisfied customer for Alternative’s networking 
and telecommunications solutions, Lark turned to 
Alternative to design, deploy and manage this innovative 
infrastructure. Alternative drew on its existing resources 
and skills—coupled with its recent acquisitions of 
Case Study
Lark leaps forward with unified, end-to-end managed 
service from Alternative  21
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
IT environment and control risk
The Group is increasingly dependent on IT systems for 
delivering its products and services and for retaining 
customers, as well as for running the operations of the Group. 
To date, the Group has used its own internal expertise together 
with external consultants, where necessary, to build its own 
IT infrastructure and software products, and is continuing to 
invest each year in improving its systems and adding more 
resilience. The Board believes the Group mitigates the IT 
control risks in a number of ways. 
Firstly, it employs a broad range of highly skilled IT personnel 
and ensures that there is a succession and retention plan 
associated with these highly talented individuals. 
Secondly, the Board directs its external auditors to focus on 
the IT environment in its control testing at the annual audit, 
and also instructs additional internal audit where required. 
Recommendations from both sets of audits are tracked 
through by the Board. 
Thirdly, the Group operates best practise in its adherence 
with standards issued by the International Organisation for 
Standardisation. Currently, the Group has accreditation for: 
– ISO 27001: Information Security Management; ISO9001: 
Quality Management; ISO 14001: Environmental Management 
and ISO 22301: Business Continuity Management, in the 
majority of its operating divisions. In order to retain these 
accreditations, the IT control environment is regularly reviewed 
by the British Standards Institute.
The Board is confident that there is a satisfactory framework 
for monitoring, assessing and reporting on these risks. There is 
also a robust regular framework for reporting on predictive KPIs 
in the business.
Edward Spurrier
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2014
ControlCircle and Intercept IT—to develop a unified, 
‘device to data centre’ managed service. 
End-to-end managed service geared to performance, 
resilience and lower cost
As part of the £2 million managed services contract, 
Alternative is moving Lark’s data to a high availability, 
high performance data centre environment, which 
includes scalable storage-on-demand. A state-of-the-
art virtual desktop solution comes courtesy of Intercept 
IT, and to complement the private cloud, Lark’s existing 
multi-protocol label switching (MPLS) network is being 
connected to the new resilient data centres. All of this will 
be managed and controlled by ControlCircle.
A new dimension
This end to end managed service solution is set to 
redefine the way Lark manages its business. The 
resilient, high performance and adaptive IT infrastructure 
will support the roll-out of Lark’s broking applications, 
improving performance using newer technology. It will 
also enable Lark to focus its skills and resources on doing 
what it does best— providing customers with a dedicated 
personalised service — while leaving the management of 
its IT infrastructure in the hands of Alternative.
