 Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
James Murray
Executive Chairman
Alternative Networks has had another 
successful year. We have delivered a 
strong financial performance, invested 
in both acquisitions and the organic 
business to support long term growth, 
and increased value for shareholders.
Results
Reported revenue for the year ended 30 September 2014 was 
up 20% on 2013 and up 1% on an organic basis, when the 
effect of the mobile bonus reduction is excluded. Reported 
adjusted EBITDA is 23% up on 2013, with an equivalent 
organic rise of 5%. 
Organic revenues rose 2% in H2 as compared with H1, 
demonstrating the potential of the Group’s new expanded 
product portfolio and ability to cross-sell newly acquired 
products.
Also pleasing is the rise in gross margins across the Group 
to 41.2%, up from 39.2% in 2013, reflecting improved terms 
on mobile and the increasing contribution from higher gross 
margin services including from the acquired businesses. 
Alternative Networks’ balance sheet remains strong. Net debt 
of £29.3m is down from the peak of £40.8m, in line with the 
Board’s target, despite incurring additional capital expenditure 
inherited from acquisitions, paying 12% higher dividends and 
servicing the loan financing for the majority of the year.
Dividend Policy
The Group continued to pursue its progressive dividend 
policy, with a proposed final dividend of 9.6 pence per share, 
resulting in a total ordinary dividend for the year of 14.5 pence 
per share (2013: 13.0 pence per share), an increase of 12% 
(not including the 2013 special dividend payment). The Board 
intention remains to progress towards 15% annual growth over 
the longer term with at least 10% growth per annum. 7
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Review of Operations
We completed two corporate transactions during the year 
which both met our strict acquisition criteria. Intercept IT and 
ControlCircle are highly complementary businesses, both 
in terms of customer profile and service offering. They have 
significantly increased cross-selling opportunities across 
the combined Group’s existing customer bases; and they 
also enhance the Group’s ability to offer a full service to a 
broader range of new customers, covering all areas of data 
management, online communication and telephony from an 
individual device to a customer’s data centre. Given such a 
good fit, the integration of both acquisitions is unsurprisingly 
progressing well and they have also both been earnings 
enhancing in their first year, another key criterion.
Excluding the contribution of the two acquisitions, the Group’s 
core business was able to achieve modest organic growth 
in its own right. In a highly competitive market, this is a very 
creditable performance and demonstrates the significant edge 
the group’s offering has over its rivals. Mobile subscribers 
continued to grow and, aided by careful cost control and better 
commercial arrangements with the main mobile operators, 
gross margins also increased, especially in the second half 
of the financial year, when they reached record levels. The 
Advanced Solutions business also achieved organic growth 
during the year. Several new products and services were 
introduced with the overall purpose of improving customer 
experience and enabling them to make the right commercial 
decisions for their business. 
The Synapse portal remains fundamental to our offering and 
our ability to retain and attract customers. We continued to 
invest in improving the portal and marketing its benefits more 
widely; our overall billing capabilities will also be enhanced by 
the addition of three complementary portals which had been 
separately developed by Intercept IT and ControlCircle.
I am delighted to welcome Het Marsh and Mark Quartermaine 
to the Board this year and record thanks to Jim Sewell. I am 
confident we have the strength in depth to take the business 
forward.
Growth Strategy
In spite of having made two highly strategic and significant 
acquisitions which have transformed the business, we continue 
to monitor the market for additional opportunities to improve 
our offering even further. Our particular focus is on managed 
and hosted services, the market for which offers the best 
prospects for growth. Our financial strength and track record of 
successful integration underpins our ability to make any such 
acquisitions, always in the knowledge that we will apply the 
same strict criteria as we have always done. 
Cross-selling remains at the heart of our organic growth 
strategy and has been enhanced by the two acquisitions we 
made during the year. All of the key metrics for customer cross-
selling are moving in the right direction, a trend we expect to 
continue. We will also target larger customers, which should 
enable us to increase average billings per customer, and these 
efforts will be supported by the development of new products 
and services. More detail of these initiatives is provided in our 
Chief Executive’s Report.
James Murray
Executive Chairman
9 December 2014 
We achieved organic growth 
in a highly competitive market: 
a very creditable performance, 
demonstrating the significant 
edge the Group’s offering has 
over its rivals.
