 06 Huntsworth plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Peter Chadlington
ChiEf ExECUtivE
Overview
huntsworth met or exceeded all group 
targets in 2007. 
  Profit before tax and highlighted items up 
23.4% to £21.9 million (2006: £17.7 million)
  f ull year like-for-like operating profit 
growth of 16.3%
  Underlying operating company margins 
of 21.0% against a target of 20%
  15.9% underlying operating margins post 
central costs against a target of 15%
  f ull year like-for-like revenue growth 
of 6.0% against a target of 5%-6%
  f ull year cash conversion of 122% against 
a target of at least 100% 
  Debt of £54 million against a target of 
under £57 million
  group won £50 million of net new business 
in year – 40% from existing clients
Growth in Pr and Healthcare in 2008
huntsworth now has two principal areas 
of activity – Public Relations (73% of group 
revenue) and healthcare Communications 
(27% of group revenue).
SummAry of tHe  
cHief executive’S review
•2007 targets met or exceeded
• Completion of divestment 
of non‑core businesses
• Transformational year for 
Huntsworth Health
• Group now focused into two 
segments: PR and Healthcare
• Network business continues 
to grow
• Creative excellence recognised 
in numerous awards
•New Chairman appointed
7.9
p
Underlying basic earnings per share 07 Huntsworth plc Annual report and accounts 2007
it is often argued that in a recessionary 
period, PR spend will fall but independent 
mORi research predicts that more than 
half of Uk businesses with a PR budget will 
maintain their PR spend and one-third will 
increase it in 2008. Only 15% of respondents 
believe that they will cut their PR spend in 
2008. f urthermore, approximately half of 
the respondents believe PR to be a more 
effective tool than it was three years ago. 
f ull details of the poll are available on the 
huntsworth website. 
similarly, the survey of the l eaders’ Panel of 
the Public Relations Consultants Association 
('PRCA') which was published last month 
reported that 83% of PR agency mD’s 
believe their businesses will have strong 
trading in 2008.
group revenue grew in all geographies and 
disciplines during 2007. On a continuing 
basis, after allowing for acquisitions and the 
disposal of CapitalBridge, our largest client 
now represents just over 2% of total revenues; 
the top ten 16% and the top 25 clients 26%. 
t he group completed its strategy to 
divest non-core businesses with the sale 
of Broadstreet in 2007 and CapitalBridge 
in f ebruary 2008. 
in healthcare communications, the other 
main platform for our group, we are seeing 
a continuing shift from advertising, towards 
‘evidence based’ campaigns. huntsworth 
health companies specialise in this field, 
employing a high proportion of scientifically 
and medically qualified personnel. Coupled 
with increasing patient power and the 
explosion of digital media, we are confident 
that we are very well positioned for further 
success in healthcare communications in 
2008 and beyond.
Public relations
Reputation management, Corporate 
and social Responsibility ('CsR') and the 
Environment all played an important part 
in our 2007 growth. 
w ork in the public sector continued to 
expand with appointments such as the 
Department for Children, f amilies and 
schools for t he Red Consultancy. t he 
group’s integrated PR and Public Affairs 
offer in grayling organised programmes on 
obesity issues, the environment and organic 
foods which all drove revenues forward. 
Our corporate, financial and investor 
relations teams enjoyed a successful year. 
Citigate Dewe Rogerson won new clients 
and projects including l loyds Pharmacy, 
Abbey, h omeserve, l as alle investment 
management and Quorn. 
hudson sandler and Quiller continued to make 
good progress since coming together in 2006 
and were appointed by a number of major 
overseas groups to advise on their international 
communications including Russia’s leading 
petrochemical company , siBUR.
Our European network primarily under 
the t rimedia and mmd brands, provide 
the most comprehensive wholly-owned 
network in European public relations with 
over 650 staff in 29 countries. Eastern 
Europe showed double digit revenue 
growth during the year driven by high 
quality corporate and public affairs work 
with a particular focus on the energy, heavy 
industry and technology sectors. 
Our PR offices in Asia also delivered double 
digit like-for-like revenue growth where all 
of our offices made strong progress and 
continued to win blue chip clients. 
6.0
%
like-for-like revenue growth
16.3
%
like-for-like operating profit growth
21.0
%
Operating margin – up from 19.5% 
in 2006 08 Huntsworth plc Annual report and accounts 2007
11% last year. 51% of huntsworth clients 
use more than one group office. 
in the years ahead we expect to increase 
both multi-country and network accounts.
Digital and On-line Communications
t here was an increasing demand in 2007 for 
our on-line services. Digital communications 
continues to underpin the effectiveness 
of our PR Programmes. w e estimate that 
more than half of our campaigns include 
a significant digital element.
Creative Excellence
Among numerous awards and accolades 
received across the group, Citigate Dewe 
Rogerson won the PR w eek Best f inancial 
services Campaign for the second year 
running for its work for AxA. t he Red 
Consultancy collected two sabres for Best 
f inancial services and Best w ebsite PR, and 
won Best Consumer Campaign at the CiPR 
Awards and Best Public sector campaign at 
the PR w eek Awards. t rimedia triumphed 
in the first ever European Excellence Awards 
winning Best European Campaign as well 
as being placed for the second year running 
in the “sunday t imes 100 Best Companies 
t o w ork f or”.
Huntsworth Health
f or huntsworth health 2007 was a 
transformational year. Already operating 
successfully in Europe, the group established 
its n orth American platform with the 
acquisitions of both Dorland in march 
and Axis in july.
huntsworth health’s global offering now 
constitutes some 450 healthcare specialists 
operating across a breadth of communications 
disciplines, including analytics, marketing 
communications, medical communications, 
public relations and sales training. it operates 
a high science, high creativity approach to 
support healthcare clients worldwide. 
On its client roster, huntsworth health can 
already count products from 40 of the world’s 
50 largest pharmaceutical companies.
During 2007, our aim in healthcare has been 
to improve margins, particularly in the acquired 
companies. t his has been achieved with a 
67% growth in profits on a like-for-like basis. 
Network business
w e continue to increase our multi-country 
revenues with 29% of our business coming 
from clients using the huntsworth network, 
an increase of 18 percentage points from 
Chief Executive’s review
continued
3,100
Clients serviced by the group in 2007
40
Of the world's 50 largest 
pharmaceutical companies are 
clients of huntsworth health 09 Huntsworth plc Annual report and accounts 2007
The board and Management
huntsworth has made a number of changes 
to the group Board. Richard sharp has 
been appointed as Chairman of the Board 
with effect from the Agm in may 2008 
to succeed jon f oulds. Richard has an 
outstanding track record, most recently 
spearheading the Principal investments 
g roup at goldman sachs. 
Additionally, sally w ithey, group f inance 
Director, has been appointed group 
Chief Operating Officer, and will be 
responsible for maximising operational 
efficiencies, investor relations and corporate 
developments. t ymon Broadhead, Deputy 
f inance Director and Company secretary, 
has been appointed group f inance Director. 
Both these Board appointments have 
immediate effect.
Outlook
2007 has been a very successful year for the 
group. t he business is now well balanced, 
tightly managed at every level and delivering 
solid organic growth and strong margins. 
65% of 2008 group revenues were 
committed at the beginning of the year, 
giving a high level of visibility for the current 
year. w e retain considerable flexibility 
to maintain margins through the proactive 
management of variable costs. staff bonuses 
account for circa 5% of revenues and other 
discretionary costs are about 7% of revenues. 
w ith variable costs of 12% of revenues, 
our new management team have flexibility 
to face any market downturn.
Our policy on acquisitions to complete and 
improve our network capabilities remains 
unchanged. w e will only acquire businesses 
where we see a long term strategic fit and clear 
opportunities for integration and improvement 
as part of our group. w e see no such 
opportunities in the market at this time.
w ith the progress that our brands 
have made across the world and with the 
appointment of Richard sharp as our new 
Chairman, the Board has confidence for 
2008 and beyond.
Peter Chadlington
ChiEf ExECUtivE
11 mARCh 2008
revenue by practice area
PR – Financial Other Projects 2%
PR – Corporate 24%
PR – Financial Retainer 16%
Other 4%
Huntsworth Health 20%
PR – Financial Deal Led Projects 4%
PR – Public Affairs 6%
pr – b2b 7%
PR – Consumer 17%
percentage of companies in leading 
indices serviced by the group ftse 100
07
52%
07
44%
Eurotop 300
07
22%
Fortune 500
28%
37%
39%
06 06 06
