 chief executive’s
review
Review of activities
Our turnaround plan is progressing well with the
foundations for sustainable profit growth being put in place
through the application of our best practice programme
and by concentrating our efforts on key markets and key
clients.
Our business is built on a long established reputation in
our key geographic markets where we have a strong local
presence.  Management is therefore structured on a
geographic basis in order to be close to our clients and
consequently, this is how we report our results.  However,
we are also market led and therefore focus on market
sectors through a matrix structure.
UK / Europe
The UK business performed well in the period, benefiting
from the completion of a number of low margin projects.
Market demand generally has been good and the benefit
of the Highways Agency framework contracts for both the
South East and South West have started to show through.
The change in procurement method introduced by the
Highways Agency temporarily slowed down the award of
new work, but this is now starting to be released with
projects such as our recent win, the A595 Parton-Lilleyhall.
In the water market the absence of large-scale projects
has been offset by regular work from a wider range of UK
water companies, including Thames Water, South West
Water, Welsh Water, Yorkshire Water and Scottish Water.
Our concentration on health and education has produced
a good flow of work in the property sector for clients such
as the University of Exeter and the University of Aston.
The housing market has also been steady.
In the broader transportation market, our planning and
systems businesses have progressed excellently.  As well
as a high volume of work from Transport for London and
other local authorities, we have designed and project
managed the new Emergency Roads Telecommunications
System.
Federation Square,
Melbourne, Australia
Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003 5
Tim Wade
Chief Executive In defence, we have started to benefit from the two Principal Support Provider contracts won earlier in the year
and continue to provide consulting advice on Project Aquatrine, relating to the privatisation of the Ministry of
Defence's water and wastewater assets.
Delays in investment in the rail and telecommunications sectors affected our performance in those markets but
there are already signs of a reverse in this situation.
Our German business has had a satisfactory trading period despite a very weak market.  It also benefited from
bad debt recoveries and property sales.  Looking forward, the recent award of the company's largest ever project
for the new central station in Berlin will provide a useful contribution to workload for a number of years.
Middle East 
The region has again performed exceptionally well.  The Abu Dhabi business secured a number of new projects,
including further work from the Sewerage Projects Committee, with whom we are proud to have worked for almost
30 years.  The property sector in Dubai is very strong with several significant projects won, such as Souk Al
Nakheel, the Dubai Marina development, the Dubai Gate, and more in the pipeline.
The Qatar business has yet to meet expectations with the release of work being slower than anticipated and
bidding highly competitive.  As the 2006 Asian Games approach we expect more work to be released, which
should result in better margins being available.
Our small team in Bahrain secured a prestigious transport study and we will continue to bid selectively on projects
that offer good margins.  The lack of foreseeable opportunities in Kuwait led us to close our office there.
Asia Pacific 
China and Australia present good opportunities for us in the short and longer term.  Our business in Australia
continues to grow and is expected to move towards profitability in the near term as it achieves critical mass.  Major
projects won in the period, that will help us achieve that objective, include the Paramatta Rail Link and the Cross
City Tunnel in Sydney.
Elsewhere in the region the market continues to be difficult.  Whilst we maintain a tactical presence in South East
Asia the level of work carried out continues to decline and is unlikely to increase in the short-term.  Accordingly,
we closed our Bangkok office with effect from 31 March 2003, transferring some of the technical and support
capability to Malaysia.
Our main challenge in the region is Hong Kong.  The market for consultants has changed significantly in recent
years and we have a new management team in place that is energetically getting to grips with today's economic
realities.  The cost base has been significantly reduced and a new market focus adopted.  The strategy is to shape
the business in recognition of the realistic and sustainable workload available in the market, whilst continuing to
leverage a 40-year presence.  Positives are our growing pre-eminence in the pre-cast construction and
independent environmental checking markets and the recent award of the Lai Chi Kok stormwater transfer
scheme.
As part of an increased focus on the mainland Chinese market we are targeting inward investment clients and
environmental business.
6 Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003
chief executive’s review continued Staff
The quality of our staff is key to our success.  Our
collective knowledge and skill is what we sell and we are
therefore fully committed to the recruitment, retention and
development of the highest possible calibre of consultants.
We are also committed to adopting a team approach in
harnessing our capabilities to meet the needs of our clients
as well as our commercial goals.
We have taken tangible steps to make further
improvements in these areas over the last year including
an overhaul of our appraisal and development processes
and the restructuring of our 'high potential programme' for
those employees likely to have a significant impact on the
business in years to come.
At all levels of the Group, I firmly believe that we have an
outstanding professional team and I would like to publicly
thank them and acknowledge their contribution in what has
been another year of change and good progress for Hyder
Consulting.
Tim Wade
Chief Executive
9 June 2003
Nicola McChlery (right), a
structural engineer in our
London office, spent an eight
month sabbatical in Borneo
on a Raleigh International
project to build two new
bridges.
Günter Nickel
Regional Director, Germany
Neil Walls
Sales and Marketing Director
Eric Smith
Professional Director
Keith Reynolds
Regional Director, Australia/ASEAN
Alan Proctor
Regional Director, UK/Europe
Kevin Jones
Regional Director, Middle East
Stewart Tyler
Regional Director, East Asia
Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003 7
executive board
