 2 Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003
chairman’s
statement
Hyder Consulting PLC (the "Group") was re-listed on the
London Stock Exchange following the acquisition of Hyder
Consulting Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries, ("HCHL")
by Firth Holdings PLC ("Firth"), a quoted shell on 22
October 2002.  The transaction fulfilled the aims of both
parties. Firth had sought to acquire a substantial
engineering consulting business with growth potential.
After our approach, the shareholders of HCHL believed
that listed status would enable management to better
implement the business turnaround already in progress
and to exploit the opportunities ahead.
Your Board is now pleased to report on the Group's results
for the year ended 31 March 2003, which includes five
months trading for HCHL (from 22 October 2002).
Results
The Group's results for the year are ahead of the Board's
expectations.  Our reported turnover for the year, including
five months trading of HCHL, was £50.5m and operating
profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals
£1.5m.  The turnover and operating profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptionals for the Group would have
been £115.2m (2002: £119.7m) and £1.1m (2002: £0.5m)
if HCHL had been owned and consolidated for the full
year.  The underlying full year results reflect the seasonal
weighting to the second half of the year.
Management has been successful in its three main
objectives: to maintain a strong order book; to improve
margins generally; and to contain and, in due course,
eliminate losses in the Asia Pacific region.  As a
consequence of the structured sales and marketing
programme, the Group has a healthy sales order book of
£158m including long-term framework contracts.  Good
progress has been made in improving margins, including
working through low margin legacy contracts; and in Hong
Kong costs have been cut and new management
appointed.
Overhead costs have been tightly controlled with the result
that margins have been improved despite professional
indemnity insurance costs more than doubling in the
period due to the well publicised insurance market
difficulties.
Sir Alan Thomas
Chairman  Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003 xx Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003                   3
No dividend is proposed in respect of the year to 31 March 2003, but it is the Board's objective to pay a dividend
in respect of the year to 31 March 2004.  To achieve this the Group intends to restructure its share capital and
reserves, as soon as is practicable, to eliminate the profit and loss reserve deficit and allow dividends to be paid
as earnings are generated.
As at 31 March 2003 net assets were £14.7m (64.05p per share) and net debt £3.2m.
Strategy
Our current principal objectives are to increase our margins in our existing market sectors and territories, and to
maximise fee income from our existing infrastructure.  In the short to medium term this means filling our existing
capacity with additional, high added-value work.
The key to margin improvement is the application of best practice across all operations and functions of the
business and across all its territories.  In addition, we are placing a greater than ever emphasis on developing
close and long term relationships with our clients and on providing them with a broader range of high value-added
services.
We intend to continue our programme of strategic "infill" acquisitions to help us achieve critical mass in certain
offices and to strengthen our service offering where we already have a strong market presence.
Pensions
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.  The defined benefit scheme was
closed to new members on 31 March 2001.  The latest formal actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme
was as at 1 April 2002 when, on an ongoing basis using market related assumptions, there was a deficit of £3.6m
(£2.5m net of deferred tax).  As a consequence, and in accordance with the actuarial advice received, the Group
increased its contribution rate by 0.5%. Members were offered the choice of increasing their contributions from 1
August 2002 or earning lower benefits.  The Group accounts for pensions under Statement of Standard Accounting
Practice 24 - "Accounting for pension costs" (SSAP24).
The adjustment made to fair value at the date of acquisition of HCHL includes an estimated actuarial deficit at that
date of £5.1m (£3.6m net of deferred tax).
The pension deficit at 31 March 2003, when measured in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 17 -
"Retirement benefits" (FRS17) rules, increased to a gross £31.8m (2002: £8.4m gross deficit) reflecting further
significant falls in the equity market and lower bond yields.  The Board considers that this position reflects the
inherent volatility of FRS 17 valuations. Notwithstanding this, the Board is keeping the matter under close review.
Directors
With the acquisition of Hyder Consulting, I am very pleased to welcome Tim Wade, Chief Executive and Simon
Hamilton-Eddy, Financial and Commercial Director to the Board.  Mr Wade was Managing Director of HCHL from
1998 until the acquisition, having previously run its Asia Pacific operation.  Mr Hamilton-Eddy joined HCHL's
predecessor company in 1992, becoming its Financial Director in 1993.  Jack Hobbs resigned as a Director in
September 2002 and I would like to thank him for his valuable contribution.
Outlook
Trading in the current year has started well in most of our areas of operation, although noting that the first half of
the year is traditionally not as strong as the second half.  In particular, the UK, which accounts for approximately
50% of our business, is trading strongly.  The Middle East market also remains robust despite recent disruptions in
that area caused by the events in Iraq.  I am pleased to report that we are beginning to see some improved
trading in Australia and the outlook there is now encouraging.  Market conditions in Germany continue to be 4 Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2003
difficult but our performance remains resilient and we are
well placed to benefit from any upturn which may develop.
Similarly, in Hong Kong the market is very testing but with
the appointment of new management and cost cutting we
are hopeful that this year will see an improvement.
Overall, public investment in infrastructure in all our main
markets has vindicated our present concentration on
public sector work and the scope that we still have to
improve our profit margins provides us with considerable
potential shareholder value growth.
I would like to thank all members of staff for their efforts
and achievements in our first reporting period as Hyder
Consulting PLC.  We look forward with confidence to
another year of strong advance in the Group's turnaround
programme.
Sir Alan Thomas
Chairman
9 June 2003
chairman’s statement continued
