 2 Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2004
These are our first full year’s results since the
acquisition of Hyder Consulting Holdings Ltd and its
subsidiaries (HCHL) on 22 October 2002.  I am
pleased that I am able to report improved results for
the year to 31 March 2004, and that the Board is
recommending a maiden dividend.
The statutory figures for the comparative period to 31 March
2003 include only five months trading for HCHL and in order
to enable meaningful comparison, non-statutory information is
set out on page 67 as if the acquisition had taken place on 1
April 2000.
Results
A year ago I reported that the three main objectives of the
Group’s turnaround programme were to maintain a strong
order book; to improve margins; and to contain and, in due
course, eliminate losses in Hong Kong.
Our order book at year end was £168m (2003: £158m).  The
increase would have been £10m greater had it not been for
adverse foreign exchange currency movements during the
year.  Turnover was up 6% at £122.3m (2003 non-statutory:
£115.2m).  Profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items was £2.4m for the year (2003 non-statutory:
£0.9m).  Profit after tax was £2.2m (2003 non-statutory:
£1.0m).  The corporation tax charge of £8,000 is low largely
as a consequence of the tax credits in the UK and Germany,
a zero tax rate in the Middle East and brought forward tax
losses elsewhere.
The improvement in operating performance was due to the
reduction of losses in Hong Kong following the restructuring
there and also increased operating profits in the UK and
Australia.  Considerable further progress has been made in
resolving outstanding claims and completing unprofitable
contracts.
Certain exceptional non-recurring items were included in
operating costs including, in particular, £0.1m relating to the
restructuring in Hong Kong; establishing a provision of £0.5m
for claims not yet notified to us to cover higher ‘excess’ levels
which professional indemnity insurers are imposing, and
£0.2m in connection with the balance sheet restructuring to
enable dividends to be paid.  £0.4m was incurred in running
down loss-making operations in South East Asia.  The
amortisation of negative goodwill of £1m largely offset these
exceptional costs.
chairman’s statement
Barking Reach, Thames Gateway, UK As at 31 March 2004 net assets were £15.4m (2003: £14.7m) and net debt £3.4m
(2003 restated: £1.4m).  Working capital increased due to expansion in the Middle
East and a lower level of year end advance payments from certain public sector
clients.  There were a number of capital transactions during the year: £6m of loan
notes were repaid to the shareholders of HCHL as part of its acquisition; we
acquired the remaining minorities in our German subsidiary; two small
acquisitions were made in Australia; and we raised £1m by the issue of new
shares.
Dividend
It is proposed that a dividend of 0.4p per share be paid on 10 August 2004
in respect of the year to 31 March 2004 to shareholders on the register as
at 9 July 2004.
Strategy
The main elements of our strategy are unchanged.  In our key account
management programme we are seeking to develop, in a systematic way,
close and long term relationships with our clients.  Secondly, we are
seeking to migrate more of our clients to higher added value advisory work.
Thirdly, we are extending the application of best practice across all the
Group’s operations, functions and territories.
We have begun our programme of strategic infills with the acquisition of two
specialist consultancies in Australia.  More of these strategic infills are being
investigated elsewhere.  These carefully targeted acquisitions will help to
achieve critical mass and to strengthen our advisory capability and market
presence. 
Pension Scheme (FRS17)
The deficit net of deferred tax under FRS17 rules as at 31 March 2004 was
£20.2m (2003: £22.3m).
The Board acknowledges that valuations under FRS17 are inherently volatile.  On the
advice of our actuaries we have taken a number of steps to address the deficit over
time.  Further action to reduce the deficit will be taken as necessary.
Current Trading and Outlook
The first half of the year is traditionally not as strong as the second half but we have made a
satisfactory start to trading in the current year.  Conditions in most of our markets remain firm
and our order book is good.
In the UK, which accounts for approximately half of our turnover, we hope to benefit from the
latest round of framework contracts from water and sewerage companies with awards expected
in the first quarter of 2005.  Though the highways sector is expected to be more subdued in the
year ahead, there is underlying pressure to improve the UK’s transportation infrastructure more
generally.
In Germany, we expect another satisfactory performance despite difficult market conditions.  The
EU accession countries continue to provide attractive opportunities.
Group Risk Manager
In July 2003, we appointed a
senior executive as our Group Risk
Manager.  His role is to raise the
professional understanding of
commercial, quality and project risks and
how to manage them, to monitor compliance
with company systems and to drive a
programme of continuous improvement.
Following an initial review, ‘risk champions’ have
been appointed in each of our major offices.  The
Commercial Function has also been reviewed and
updated to globally strengthen and focus the
structure, roles and responsibilities of commercial
managers.
Design Management Guide
Since the publication of the Latham Report in 1994 and,
as a result of the widespread adoption of design and
build procurement contracts, consultants have assumed
greater responsibility for a wider range of design
issues.
In order to manage the design process effectively, we
have produced a Design Management Guide that is
fully integrated into our interactive management
system - oneway.sys.  This guides our project
managers and design staff through what is
expected of them at all stages of a project from set-
up to handover.  This is key to reducing our risk
from potential project conflicts. 
Sir Alan Thomas
Chairman 
Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2004     3 4 Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2004
The high price of oil should help to sustain demand for our
services in the Middle East.  The 17% decline in the local US$
based currencies has tended to mask last year’s excellent
order performance.
We have cut losses substantially in Hong Kong  and remain
confident of moving into profitability this year.  We have also
made useful progress in establishing a stronger foothold in
China which we regard as  important to us in the long term. 
In South East Asia we are in the process of running down our
local  offices and future projects in the region will be secured
via key clients or local partners.
The market in Australia is forecast to remain strong and we
expect another year of profit improvement in part from on-
going organic growth and in part from recent acquisitions.
Overall, we expect another year of advance for the Group and
believe that there is considerable further potential to improve
our profit margin and to grow shareholder value.
I would like to thank our clients, our partners and all members
of our staff for their valued contribution and for their teamwork
which has made possible so many worthwhile achievements
over the past year.
Sir Alan Thomas
Chairman
7 June 2004
chairman’s statement continued
Mongkok Footbridge, Hong Kong
