 Review of Activities
We have made good progress in the year with our turnaround
programme, having more than doubled operating margins to 2.6%.
We still have considerable scope for further improvement.
The main contributors to our progress to date have been the application of our
best practice regime combined with the elimination and turnaround of 
loss-making operations.  As we continue our drive for margin growth by
increasing our advisory and other higher margin services, increasing the
volume of work through our fixed cost base, and by making further strategic
acquisitions we expect to be able to make further advances.
UK / Europe
Turnover increased to £75.7m (2003 non-statutory: £71.6m) and operating profit
to £4.4m (2003 non-statutory: £3.4m).
Our UK / Europe region business made further good progress in improving
margins, performing strongly in both water and transportation.  In both sectors our
key client marketing strategy, with the likes of Transport for London, South West
Water and Thames Water plus key contractors, has made an important contribution.
The award of a number of Route Management Strategy projects for important
transport corridors in the north of England, including the M6 north of Birmingham,
provides strong forward workload.
Significant project wins included the third PSP (Principal Support Provider) contract from
Defence Estates for US Air Force bases in the UK, the Glasgow Strategic Drainage Plan,
the M40 Junction 4 Early Contractor Involvement project and further work associated with the
regeneration of the Barking Reach area of the Thames Gateway.
Our German business, Acerplan, performed well despite continued market weakness.  The rail
sector again provided some attractive commissions including a €4 million project for the design of
fireproofing measures in underground structures.
The acquisition of the remaining minorities in Acerplan will facilitate greater integration with the rest
of the business.  It also provides a sound base for future growth and acquisitions in this important
European market.
We are also well positioned, with local strategic partners, in a number of the countries joining the EU
in 2004 and 2007.  In the final quarter we secured a number of EU-funded highways projects in
Bulgaria and Romania.
chief executive’s
review
Risk workshops
Among the first actions to
emerge from the appointment
of our group risk manager has
been the roll out of risk training and
workshops.  Over the course of the
financial year, about 500 employees
have passed through courses on ‘Design
Management’ and on ‘Risk Awareness for
Engineers’.  In the planning phase is a
course entitled ‘Risk Management for Project
Managers’.
‘oneway.sys’
Our interactive management system,
‘oneway.sys’, is accredited to ISO9001 (2000).
Accessible from all our employees’ personal
computers, it provides guidelines for the effective
and consistent management of our business
operations at a commercial, office and project level.
The system ensures a consistency of approach,
regardless of where in the world we are working.
Feedback from Best Practice Reviews has resulted
in improvements to key procedures and the
processes employed therein.  This is a continuous
process.
Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2004          5
Multi-discipline 
services for 
Transport for 
London
Burj Dubai Tower Middle East
Turnover increased to £20.5m (2003 non-statutory: £16.4m)
whilst annual operating profits remained constant at close to
£1m.  The translation effect of the falling US$ meant that the
results were 17% less than they would have been at prior
year exchange rates.
The region is going through a major growth spurt, fuelled by
world oil prices.  As well as major investments in commercial
property and tourism, principally in Dubai, there is a general
move to upgrade infrastructure to meet the demands of
population growth.
In the property sector, notable new project wins included five
50 storey residential towers at Jumeirah Beach Residence in
Dubai, the Central Bank of Kuwait’s new headquarters
building, the Museum of the Islamic Arts in Doha and design
and site supervision for Burj Dubai infrastructure, a major new
mixed use development which will feature the world’s tallest
building.
Our Abu Dhabi and Al Ain offices, which are more focused on
infrastructure projects, remain exceptionally busy.  During the
year we won a two year highways maintenance project with
the Abu Dhabi Municipality, major irrigation and wastewater
network upgrading projects and an advisory project in Al Ain
aimed at increasing private sector involvement and
introducing new management practices in the water sector. 
Asia Pacific
Turnover fell marginally to £26.2m (2003 non-statutory:
£27.2m).  This reflects the depressed Hong Kong market and
the on-going reduction of low margin site work.  The operating
loss was reduced to £0.3m (2003 non-statutory: £1.9m).
In Australia good progress is being made to grow a business
that is both profitable and sustainable.  Thanks to the
acquisitions of Jeff Moulsdale and Associates and Adamus
Consulting Practice, we have moved forward our strategy of
offering a full service property and infrastructure capability to
compete with the best available domestically and
internationally.  My congratulations to the teams that earned
two Australian Engineering Excellence Awards in 2003.
Major new projects won during the year included the structural
review of West Gate Bridge in Melbourne and transport
surveying and modelling for the privately financed Mitcham to
Frankston Tollway in Victoria.
6 Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2004
chief executive’s review
continued
Kuwait Central Bank headquarters The Hong Kong business has been scaled back to a level more appropriate to
market demand and is now closer to break-even.  Having seen our largest ever
commission, the West Rail project, open to the public in December 2003, we
have been active in projects associated with East Rail.  We also won a three
year term consultancy for geotechnical services for the Hong Kong Housing
Authority.
The Hong Kong office remains pivotal to supporting our growth in mainland
China where we have expanded our representative offices.  We won
further projects associated with the Guangzhou Metro and breakthrough
projects in the water and environment markets.
In South East Asia operations have been scaled back to the minimum
necessary to maintain a credible presence.  Future projects will be
carried out with local partners or key clients.
Corporate Overheads
Corporate overheads have increased to £1.9m (2003 non-statutory:
£1.4m).  This reflects increased costs resulting from the Company being
fully listed and an increased investment in risk management aimed at
reducing Professional Indemnity insurance costs.
Staff
Our employees have worked tremendously hard to help us achieve a
number of our business goals and I would like to take this opportunity to
thank them all for their continued professionalism and commitment. 
As our principal asset, we are committed to helping our people at all levels to
have fulfilling careers and to develop their professional skills and experience.
For example, I am delighted that we have been able to place nearly 100 people
on secondments outside of their home country during the year.  Within the UK,
we are committed to achieving Investor in People status.
Tim Wade
Chief Executive
7 June 2004
Investor in People
Within the UK, we will be seeking
Investor in People (IIP) accreditation
during the 2004-05 financial year. In
addition to the professional development
initiatives described later, and based on
prior employee and customer feedback, we
are introducing measures aimed at improving
induction, our employees’ understanding of their
role in delivering business objectives, and two-
way communications. 
Tim Wade
Chief Executive
Hyder Consulting PLC annual report 2004          7
Paddington Station long-term vehicular 
access, UK
Route Management Strategies, UK
Bahrain Strategic Roads Plan
