 10
Hydrodec Group plc    |   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
“ The management team remain 
focussed on a strategy to grow the 
business which will be delivered by 
securing access to the value chain, 
the application of “best in class” 
technology , the reduction of risk 
through partnership or acquisition 
and the rigorous focus on business 
costs and efficiency .”
2013 was quite a year – record revenues, sales 
volumes, feedstock procurement, plant 
utilisation and much improved margins; 
positive Operating EBITDA (pre growth costs) 
for the first time ever and positive total EBITDA 
run-rate for three successive months; two 
transformational strategic transactions 
completed and another two strategic 
relationships secured; and a positive resolution 
to the balance sheet structure. 
With a month of the year to go it appeared 
that our strategy had achieved real 
momentum only for the incident at Canton on 
1 December to occur. An explosion and fire at 
the plant effectively shut down production 
causing significant damage to the main 
reactors and ancillary equipment. Most 
importantly no one was hurt and the team in 
Canton together with the local emergency 
services and authorities responded to the 
unfortunate situation in exemplary fashion. 
Insurance cover is expected to provide for the 
rebuilding of the Canton business and for 
business interruption for the period the plant is 
down, so enabling it to re-emerge stronger 
and back on track with the original plan for an 
expanded business. 
Strategic developments
In line with the global strategy we outlined in 
September 2012, the management team 
completed a number of strategic initiatives 
during the year under review with the 
announcement of strategic relationships 
which we would expect to develop further in 
the future. These developments are intended 
to provide a platform for long-term growth 
and profitability, reduce execution and 
business risk, and to monetise Hydrodec’s 
proven cleantech sustainable oil re-refining 
process; from the core transformer oil business 
into the substantially larger used lubricant and 
base oil market. 
Strategic partnership with G&S in US
In April 2013 the Company entered into a 
strategic partnership with G&S Technologies 
Group (“G&S”) in order to grow its core 
transformer oil business and create the largest 
transformer oil re-refiner in the US. G&S is a 
leading New Jersey-based electricity 
transformer recovery services group with a 
50-year track record of serving the industrial 
and utility industries throughout the US. 
The commitment of feedstock from G&S to the 
new entity, Hydrodec of North America 
(“HoNA”), has enabled greater utilisation of 
existing available capacity in the US. It also 
provides HoNA with increased security of 
feedstock supply to support the planned 
expansion of US plant capacity from 27 million 
litres per annum to 65 million litres per annum. 
G&S has acquired a 25 per cent stake in HoNA 
which it will increase to 49.9 per cent as the 
expansion plans are delivered. 
The transaction also establishes a new 
recurring royalty for the technology which 
Hydrodec has licensed to HoNA. 
Acquisition of OSS Group
In September 2013 the Company acquired the 
principal assets and business of OSS Group 
Limited from its administrators. OSS is the UK’s 
largest collector, consolidator and processor of 
used lubricant oil and the largest seller of 
processed fuel oil (“PFO”). 
The used oil collection creates a competitive 
source of feedstock for new technology  
to upgrade PFO to higher margin lubricant 
base oils. 
The global market for lubricant oil is estimated 
to be in excess of US$30 billion per annum, 
materially larger than that for transformer oil 
(estimated at US$1.8 billion per annum); the UK 
is a key target market with little or no current 
upgraded oil recycling.
Chief Executive’ s report 11
www.hydrodec.com
G&S is a privately owned conglomerate 
based in New Jersey with a 50 year track 
record in the recovery and disposal of 
decommissioned transformers, treatment 
and handling of waste and/or contaminated 
transformer oils as well as associated asset 
recovery services. The group, which 
includes G&S Technologies and affiliation 
with TCI Alabama, Transformer Technologies 
(Oregon) and TCI of New York, serves the 
industrial and utility industries throughout 
the entire US offering its clients a wide 
range of services. 
Our partnership creates an alliance between 
the best asset recovery and service provider 
with the best oil re-refining technology, 
providing electrical utility industry 
customers with a compelling one-stop 
sustainability offer. The security of supply of 
used oil as feedstock for HoNA’s Canton 
re-refinery has materially de-risked our 
operations and future expansion activities  
in the US.
G&S Technologies – our 25% partner  
in Hydrodec of North America (“HoNA”)
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 12
Hydrodec Group plc    |   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive’ s report continued
Technology
Transformer oil
We have recently filed a provisional patent 
application to protect our operating and 
design intellectual property innovation in the 
original patented transformer oil re-refining 
technology developed over eight years  
of commercial operation. This reinforces  
the ongoing commercial protection of 
Hydrodec’s proprietary technology leadership  
in the production of sustainable and high 
quality transformer oil products at market 
competitive prices. The innovation contained 
in this new patent application will enhance 
process economy, reliability and consistency 
while operationally simplifying the core 
re-refining technology. 
Since the turn of the year, our re-refining 
methodology for transformer oil has been 
accepted by the US Carbon Registry as a 
carbon offset, or carbon saving process, 
providing us with the potential to monetise 
production as a carbon credit through the 
voluntary carbon offset market in the US. 
Lubricant oil
In December 2012, we announced proof of 
concept that extends Hydrodec’s proven 
technology into used paraffinic feedstock – 
both industrial and used crank case motor oils. 
The technology offers the potential for new 
types of high quality, low carbon lubricant 
base oils that meet or exceed the higher-end 
specifications, being Group II, II+ and/or Group 
III. Market intelligence suggests that the ability 
to produce a Group III product in particular 
would mark a significant breakthrough for 
re-refined products. 
We continue to make steady progress and 
expect to submit an application for patent 
protection to cover hydrogenation in the 
treatment of used lubricant oil in the near 
future. Test rigs covering all three stages of the 
more complex lubricant re-refining process are 
operating in Australia; the immediate objective 
is to determine the operating and design 
parameters for a semi-commercial pilot plant 
targeted for the UK in the first half of 201 5, subject 
to planning and other regulatory consents.
New markets 
New market entry remains under review in  
line with strategy and in a sector which offers  
a number of consolidation opportunities. 
Targets would include access to secure 
feedstock and complementary or proven 
technology that can offer accelerated 
deployment and potential business synergies. 
Europe is a key area of focus, with the US 
having more medium term opportunities.
Hydrodec has now dissolved the joint venture 
relationship with Kobelco-Eco in Japan 
pending a change in the regulatory and market 
conditions in the country that might offer 
renewed opportunity to access the material 
store of PCB contaminated used oil and 
hardware. While the regulatory environment 
has largely reconfirmed the extremely onerous 
restrictions on handling the legacy PCB issue, 
an extension of the completion date to 2026 
has reduced short-term necessity to develop 
solutions. We keep Japan under close review 
with the 2020 Tokyo Olympics targeted to 
enhance and promote best environmental 
practice as a possible catalyst for action; it 
remains a long wavelength opportunity.
Other strategic relationships
UK
The Company announced in November 2013 
that it had reached heads of terms on an 
agreement to collaborate with Essar Oil UK Ltd 
to develop re-refining opportunities in the UK. 
We anticipate combining the existing 
infrastructure, expertise and operating 
capability at Stanlow, the UK’s second largest 
refinery, with both Hydrodec’s proprietary 
technology and feedstock from OSS to create 
a lubricant oil re-refining hub. A combined 
transformer oil and lubricant base oil business 
in the UK would target up to 100 million litres 
per annum of processing capacity. 
Australia
Also in November 2013 the Group entered into 
an agreement to co-locate its Australian 
transformer oil re-refining operation at the 
Southern Oil Refining Pty Limited (“SOR”) 
lubricant oil re-refinery in Wagga Wagga, New 
South Wales (“NSW”). This will create a single 
re-refining site of scale in NSW, improving 
Hydrodec’s cost and operational efficiency, 
and substantially enhancing operational 
resilience. SOR will operate the combined 
facility under a tolling agreement.
SOR and its partner JJ Richards are leading 
collectors and re-refiners of general used 
lubricant oil in Australia and are currently 
commissioning their second re-refinery 
complex at Gladstone, Queensland. Hydrodec 
will retain all rights and ownership of the 
Hydrodec brand, business and technology in 
Australia and will continue to manage all 
commercial aspects of the business including 
used oil procurement as well as sales and 
marketing of SUPERFINE™ transformer oil  
and naphthenic base oil. We would expect the 
co-location to become effective later this year. OSS is the UK’s largest collector, consolidator 
and processor of used lubricant oil and seller 
of processed fuel oil. It has a national 
network of oil storage and transfer stations, 
serviced by a fleet of more than 90 trucks 
which collect used oil and other garage 
workshop waste from over 30,000 
customers. Used oil is converted into 
processed fuel oil at OSS’s plant at Stourport 
and principally sold on to the UK quarry  
and power industry. It also provides 
complementary waste services for a 
“one-stop shop” total waste management 
offering to clients. 
The combination of OSS’s access to used  
oil together with its operating capability 
makes it an ideal partner for Hydrodec to 
utilise Hydrodec’s existing transformer oil 
technology and to develop and ultimately 
deploy its new lubricant oils re-refining 
technology in the UK:
 – it offers the potential to provide over 60 
million litres per annum of feedstock 
which the Group intends to re-refine into 
a high grade lubricant base oil; 
 – it provides capability to collect used 
transformer oil from the UK power 
companies and overseas; and
 – it provides a platform to develop other 
opportunities to consolidate the oil 
collection and re-refining market in the 
UK and Europe.
OSS – acquired in September 201 3
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
Waste oil
collection
Parts
washers
Fuel oil Industrial
services
Hazardous
waste collection
Fragmentation 
services
Ancillary 
products
13
www.hydrodec.com
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14
Hydrodec Group plc    |   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial and operating performance
Given the execution of a number of strategic 
developments during 2013, we have this year 
included a Chief Financial Officer’s review 
which will provide further explanation behind 
the headline numbers in the statutory accounts. 
It will also provide more detail in respect of the 
financial and operating performance of the 
Group and I shall therefore limit my report to 
the Group level headline numbers.
2013 represented the ninth consecutive year of 
growth for the Company with revenues 
increasing a further 54 per cent to US$40.1 
million (2012: US$26.1 million). Total oil sales of 
37 .0 million litres represented an increase of 65 
per cent on 2012 (22.5 million litres). Gross 
profit rose 76 per cent to US$9.4 million (2012: 
US$5.4 million) with margins at 24 per cent 
(2012: 21 per cent).
I am pleased to report that Operating EBITDA 
(adjusted for growth costs, share-based 
payment costs and foreign exchange loss) was 
positive for the first time ever at US$0.2 million 
(2012: US$2.8 million loss). In line with our 
stated target during the year, we achieved a 
positive total EBITDA run-rate in September, 
October and November which bodes well for 
the future. 
The overall statutory loss for the year widened 
to US$17 .4 million (2012: US$14.2 million) once 
growth costs, the significantly increased 
interest charge (including the final, non-
recurring US$4.9 million non-cash amortisation 
of the unsecured loan stock) and depreciation 
and amortisation are included. 
Balance sheet and funding
Following the successful completion of the 
£24 million placing and open offer of new 
ordinary shares in November 2013, together 
with the repayment of £12.9 million of 
unsecured loan stock (in cash) and £5 million 
of secured loan notes and a £7 .5 million 
revolving credit facility (through the issue of 
new ordinary shares), the Company’s balance 
sheet was significantly stronger at the 
year-end. Net assets were US$69.6 million 
(2012: US$25.5 million), including US$21.9 
million in cash, and the parent Company is 
debt free.
This represents a significant breakthrough for 
the Group and formed a key element in the 
implementation of our strategy. The Company 
is now on a much firmer financial footing for the 
next phase of growth with renewed flexibility 
around its future funding requirements. 
Trading update and outlook
In respect of the Canton incident, the Group 
has submitted a claim for its total loss 
(including business interruption) which is 
under review by the insurers for final approval. 
On the basis of management’s assumed 
insurance proceeds for business interruption, 
the Company achieved a positive total EBITDA 
result for the first three months of 2014. There 
remains significant scope for further 
improvement in the UK and Australian 
operations through the rest of the year.
The Board expects that two re-refining 
processing units (“trains”) will be operational at 
Canton in the fourth quarter of 2014, with four 
more trains following in the first quarter of 
2015. This will bring capacity at Canton to 150 
per cent of that in operation prior to the 
incident in December last year, with further US 
expansion planned for later in 2015. Our local 
management team and partners G&S remain 
confident that neither feedstock supply nor 
customer demand, given an even higher 
specification end product arising from 
improved plant design, should prove material 
obstacles to the successful performance of the 
expanded plant.
In Australia, feedstock constraints have impacted 
performance in the year to date but these are 
showing signs of improvement ahead of the 
planned co-location with SOR which is likely  
to be effected in the fourth quarter.
The OSS oil recycling business in the UK has 
also experienced some feedstock constraints 
due to aggressive competition for used oil 
from European re-refiners. However, it 
continues to contribute positively to EBITDA 
and indeed its performance for the first 
quarter is ahead of our internal budget. 
Management remain confident that the 
business is progressing well and remains on 
track to return to its earlier levels of profitability 
within the next two years.
Whilst we continue to have line of sight to 
establishing our own “best in class” re-refining 
technology for lubricant oils and to target 2016 
for the commissioning of a full scale re-refining 
plant, the Board continues to monitor other 
opportunities which may enable the Company 
to move into this market at an earlier date.  
The Company’s current plans are to establish  
a “semi-commercial” scale pilot plant in the 
first half of 2015, subject to planning and 
regulatory consents. 
In terms of a transformer oil business in the UK, 
the Board continues to target the commissioning 
of a two train plant in the second quarter of 
2015, again subject to approvals. 
While there is little doubt that the unfortunate 
incident at Canton in December has slowed 
operational momentum, all indications are 
that the Group will re-emerge stronger in the 
US and march back to the original plan for 
expansion and growth. The wider market for 
re-refining remains a core target, through 
technology and, critically, access to feedstock. 
The market leading position enjoyed by OSS in 
the UK creates interesting strategic optionality 
for the development of our wider business 
strategy in new markets for re-refining. The 
management team remain focused on a 
strategy to grow the business which will be 
delivered by securing access to the value 
chain, the application of “best in class” 
technology, the reduction of risk through 
partnership or acquisition and the rigorous 
focus on business costs and efficiency.
I am pleased to thank the Board for their 
support, as well as our enlarged stakeholder 
base, as we continue to build a business based 
on our unique, renewable oil proposition. 
Ian Smale
Chief Executive Officer
21 May 2014
Chief Executive’ s report continued
