 4
Hydrodec Group plc    |   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’ s statement
“ The key performance indicators of 
the original re-refining business 
– sales volumes, revenues, feedstock 
procurement, plant utilisation and 
margins – were all significantly 
higher in 20 1 3 than the prior year.“ 
2013 was my first full year in office and also the 
first in which Ian Smale and his management 
team sought to implement the Company’s 
new strategy as unveiled in September 2012.  
I am therefore pleased to report on a successful 
year in terms of the performance of the Group 
and the delivery of that strategy. 
The primary focus, as ever, was on the 
operational and financial performance of the 
existing business. The key performance 
indicators of the original re-refining business 
– sales volumes, revenues, feedstock 
procurement, plant utilisation and margins 
– were all significantly higher in 2013 than the 
prior year. Additionally the Board continues to 
strengthen the governance of the Company 
and this is covered in the Governance section 
of this Report from page 24.
Although our Company continues to report a 
statutory loss, larger this year due to the 
non-recurring, non-cash accounting treatment 
arising from the repayment of the loan stock, I 
would like to draw your attention to the key 
measure the Board and management use in 
reviewing the Group’s performance, namely 
EBITDA. Operating EBITDA (adjusted for 
expenditure on growth costs and other 
non-operating items) was positive for the first 
time ever and our Group operated at a positive 
total EBITDA run-rate (ie after those growth 
costs and other non-operating items) for 
September, October and November. These are 
significant achievements and bode well for the 
years ahead. 
Strategically, the G&S and OSS transactions 
were completed during the year and have 
already had a significant, positive impact on a 
number of the Group’s Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”) for 2013 as Ian Smale and 
Chris Ellis expand on in their reports. The 
impact of the strategic agreement with Essar 
Oil in the UK will be of a longer wavelength 
whereas that with Southern Oil in Australia will 
be progressed in 2014. Alongside these 
partnership and acquisition developments, the 
placing and open offer, together with the 
repayment of all of the parent company’s debt, 
have resolved issues with the balance sheet 
which have held the Company back for too 
long and resulted in a year-end cash balance of 
US$22 million. I would like to welcome new 
shareholders to the Company as well as 
thanking many of the existing holders who also 
invested further in the 2013 funding round. This 
leaves the Company well placed for further 
strategic developments in the months ahead. 
I must of course refer to the fire at the Canton 
plant in December. Clearly this was a serious 
incident occurring just as the Company was 
developing real momentum into the year-end. 
I want to use this opportunity to offer my 
gratitude to the exemplary reaction of local 
management and staff and our partners G&S, 
and to acknowledge the support of local 
authorities, suppliers and customers. With the 
pending resolution of the insurance claim we 
shall shortly be able to focus all of our efforts in 
the US on the rebuilding and expansion of the 
Canton plant, with the restoration of 
production expected by the end of this year. 
I would like to draw your attention to the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting at the back 
of these Report and Accounts. This year’s AGM 
will be held in The Winchester Room, The 
Washington Mayfair Hotel, 5 Curzon Street, 
London W1J 5HE at 10.00 a.m. on Monday  
30 June 2014. 
Finally I would like to thank Ian, his 
management team and all the staff at 
Hydrodec for their efforts in 2013 as everyone 
played their part in a challenging yet ultimately 
successful year. The Board of Directors are 
looking forward to the remainder of 2014 and 
beyond with considerable optimism. 
Lord Moynihan
Chairman
21 May 2014
