 3 Hydrodec Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
In 2014, a key focus for the Board has been to support management to 
deliver a clear strategy to profitability for Hydrodec whilst ensuring that 
an effective management team and governance framework is in place to 
implement that strategy. 
Our objective is to deliver, within an 
integrated feedstock and value-chain 
business model, outstanding growth in 
revenue and returns. We apply ‘best in class’ 
disruptive technologies to handle, treat and 
re-refine used oil. Our goal is to produce 
sustainable, high quality oils. 
Whilst 2014 will be remembered for the impact and successful resolution of 
the Canton insurance claim, significant progress has been made during the 
year in preparing Hydrodec for future growth and profitability. Indeed, I 
believe the fundamentals of the Group are stronger than they have been at 
any point during my time with Hydrodec. The Group today and the Group 
of three years ago are materially different. I believe Hydrodec, led by Ian 
Smale, is on the threshold of growth and success, through the combination 
of a first rate management team, market leading technology and a focused 
strategy for growth in the USA, Australia and the UK. 
The re-commissioning of Canton marks a substantial achievement, not 
only will it return us to being operational in the USA, but it will do so with 
in excess of a 50% increase in capacity compared to December 2013. Our 
technology platform has also broadened with provisional patent 
applications submitted in 2014 to protect operating and design 
innovations in our unique transformer oil re-refining technology and 
upgrade innovations that will enhance the re-refining of lubricant oils. The 
co-location of our Australian operations to the Southern Oil Refinery at 
Bomen, and the on-going work to restructure the OSS business and 
‘realign’ it to the customer further reposition the business for growth. 
Underpinned by an exclusive licence agreement with CEP to develop their 
technology in the UK, we also continue to make progress towards the 
independent development of a base oil re-refinery in the UK. 
I believe that good governance is integral to delivering growth in 
shareholder value. Whilst listed on AIM, our governance should strive to 
meet FTSE 350 standards. The Board continues to strengthen the 
governance of the Group and this year the Board has established a new 
Safety and Technology Committee, chaired by Dame Mary Archer, to 
reinforce its oversight of the key areas of health, safety and technology. 
Dame Mary brings considerable scientific and governance experience to 
the Board. Under her leadership, the Committee will provide rigorous 
oversight and a robust challenge for the Group’s technology programme. 
Long term success also requires transparency, accountability and 
engagement to maintain a consistent, high quality dialogue with both 
institutional and retail investors. In this regard, I was pleased to meet 
with a wide cross-section of shareholders at the Group’s first retail 
investor meeting in January. 
In conclusion, I want to return to the Canton insurance claim. It was a long 
process and made 2014 a challenging and frustrating year. However, the 
insurance settlement obtained was, in the end, comprehensive and a good 
outcome for the Company. Whilst special mention should be made to 
recognise the efforts of Chris Ellis; Michael Pitcher (the CEO of Hydrodec of 
North America) and their respective teams, I would like to thank Ian, his 
management team and all the staff at Hydrodec for their efforts in 2014 as 
everyone played their part in maintaining professionalism and morale in a 
challenging year.
Lord Moynihan
Chairman
20 March 2015
