 10 Hydrodec Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Review
However, we were still able to deliver 
a number of significant milestones during 
the year that will prepare the Group for 
growth in 201 5 and beyond. These 
milestones and our other achievements in 
my view confirm the resilience but also the 
potential of the Hydrodec business.
Technology
We continue to invest in growth, a significant portion of which is in the 
development, delivery and innovation of our technology. 
We submitted provisional patent applications to protect operating and 
design innovations in our unique transformer oil re-refining technology 
and upgrade technology innovations that will enhance the re-refining of 
lubricant oils. I believe this strengthens our position for the longer term in 
lubricant re-refining where the aspiration is to reproduce very high quality 
oil, fit for its original purpose with world leading yields and efficiencies 
(just as we do for transformer oil). 
Lubricant re-refining
We signed an exclusive licence agreement with California-based Chemical 
Engineering Partners (CEP) to develop the CEP wiped-film evaporation and 
hydrogenation technology in the UK as well as the basic engineering 
design for an initial 75 million litre base oil re-refinery. The CEP relationship 
also offers the opportunity to collaborate on the development of our own 
technology going forward. CEP is the most commercially distributed of the 
re-refining technologies; current projects and installed capacity add to 
approaching a billion litres per annum of capacity globally. The relationship 
is very important and will significantly de-risk our major business move into 
used lubricant oil re-refining. Moreover, we believe our technology 
innovation is value accretive and can upgrade the CEP process increasing 
yield and improving product quality. 
Zeton relationship
Hydrodec has had a close relationship through 2014 with Zeton from 
Canada, firstly on the engineering design for the new transformer oil plants 
planned for the Canton expansion and also on their fabrication. The design 
is a major step forward. The new plant is modular in construction and 
provides access at all levels for easier monitoring and maintenance. 
Importantly, the design incorporates end-to-end processing through two 
reactor trains with each module having a capacity of 15 million litres per 
annum, at least 10% more efficient than their predecessors. We are also 
confident that this improved configuration will become our best available 
technology capable of producing the best quality transformer oil available 
today in the US.
Canton insurance settlement
We settled the Canton insurance claim for a total gross value of US$20 
million, which net of deductibles, resulted in total cash payments of 
US$18.75 million being made to the Group. This was a good and 
comprehensive result, after a frustratingly long and arduous process. 
Importantly, it allows us to rebuild at Canton funded and confident that we 
can re-capture the growth and momentum in the business interrupted by 
the incident. Our relationship with, and the full co-operation of, our 
partners, G&S Technologies, has been critical to achieving our ambitious 
re-build plans and I extend my thanks to them.
2014 has been a year of rebuilding and setting the platform for the 
future profitability of Hydrodec; a future where we re-emerge stronger. 
Responding to and resolving the aftermath of the Canton incident 
certainly created a frustrating ‘overhang’ which impacted the business, 
particularly as we worked to resolve the insurance claim. 11
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Hydrodec Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CEP is the most commercially distributed of the re-refining 
technologies, with ten plants operating globally and two 
more in design, approaching a billion litres per annum of 
re-refining capacity globally. It is also assessed by Hydrodec  
to be the most compatible technology platform with our  
own technology development programme. 
CEP’s leading technology can produce API Group II/II+ quality 
base oil from collected used lubricant oil feedstock with base 
oil recoveries in excess of 70%. Moreover, we believe our 
technology innovation can upgrade the CEP process 
increasing yield recoveries and improving product quality. 
Engineering and licence agreement and technical collaboration agreement with CEP
This year we signed an exclusive licence agreement with California-based 
Chemical Engineering Partners (CEP) to develop its wiped-film evaporation and 
hydrogenation technology in the UK as well as the basic engineering design 
for an initial 75 million litre base oil re-refinery. This substantially de-risks our 
proposed UK base oil re-refining project. 12 Hydrodec Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Review
continued
Safety and Technology Committee
The Board has introduced a new Board Committee specifically focused  
on our HSEQ agenda, but also with oversight of Hydrodec’s technology 
programme and development. Dame Mary Archer, DBE a renowned 
chemist, but also widely associated with science, renewable technologies 
and governance in the NHS, agreed to join the Board and assume 
responsibility for this Committee in November 2014. As our Chairman said 
at the time, “Mary’s access to academia and knowledge of the renewable 
energy sector will greatly strengthen the Board’s ability to support the 
development of the Hydrodec business and technology.”
Strategic developments
USA
There has been significant progress in the Canton project during the 
period and into 2015. All six ‘trains’ are now on site and in situ. Expansion 
‘trains’ 1 & 2 are currently progressing through mechanical and electrical 
completion and are now available for operator training. The replacement 
‘trains’ 3 to 6 will follow sequentially. The new Canton will create several 
important advantages for the business. The new plant will deliver at least 
10% greater efficiency than the name plate capacity of the original 
equipment; that is, in excess of 40 million litres of effective operating 
capacity. It will be safer, easier to maintain and will produce the best  
quality transformer oil available in the US. It will also qualify for an offset 
carbon credit. 
Australia
The co-location of Hydrodec’s Australian operations from Young to 
Southern Oil’s Bomen lubricant oil re-refinery in Wagga Wagga will be 
complete at the end of March 2015. The project, which was subject to an 
extended planning process and submission, creates a significant re-refining 
hub in New South Wales, which will not only benefit from operating 
efficiencies under a single operating structure, but also offer better 
logistics and location advantages. Hydrodec continues to own the 
transformer oil re-refining plant and the proprietary technology, and will 
control all the commercial activity of Hydrodec branded SUPERFINE™ 
transformer oil.
OSS Group
OSS has a good, experienced team and remains the leading service 
provider in the UK by size and benefits from that scale. Emerging from 
administration created a number of challenges, and we realised that its 
business strategy and structure needed to change even before the decline 
in oil prices had any impact and that decline has and will drive further 
significant change into the used oil market. We believe realigning the 
business back towards the major transport and industrial clients and by 
focusing on its compliant, convenient and competitive service offer to 
major car groups, workshop networks as well as industrial and transport 
companies, is the right strategy. Furthermore, we have taken action to 
reduce headcount and costs by more than £0.5 million.
UK re-refining project
We continue to progress the independent development of a base oil 
re-refinery. Indeed, it is worth noting that base oil prices have held up well 
relative to the prevailing oil price. The UK is a very attractive option for 
profitable growth and development in the used-oil and transformer oil 
markets – a unique opportunity to create a fully integrated operation from  
a standing start covering all oil, as well as leapfrogging the majority of the 
European competition in efficiency and product quality. OSS is critical to this, 
securing feedstock to underpin and support further investment, as well as 
offering the brand, business and customer base to be successful in its own 
right. After detailed consideration in which 12 potential sites were evaluated, 
a location adjacent to the QE2 Dock on the Wirral in the North West of 
England has been identified. This is a pre-zoned industrial site close to both 
excellent sea and road transport logistics and a significant storage facility. 
The project itself qualifies as a nationally significant infrastructure project and 
requires a statutory development consent order. 
Financial and operating performance 
The benefit of a full year of trading from OSS has enabled the Group to 
continue its commendable year on year growth in income, up 36% to 
US$54.7 million, as well as a significant increase in total oil sales, up 31% to 
48.6 million litres. This was without production revenue from the US offset in 
part by business interruption income and a step up in oil trading as we 
maintained our channels of trade in preparation for 2015. Gross margins this 
year are more complex to understand given the impact and accounting 
treatment of business interruption given the income reimbursing lost margin 
due to the incident, but margins have otherwise stood up despite lower 
product sales prices and challenging market conditions. 
Balance sheet
In December, we entered into a US$10 million, seven year term, asset 
financing facility and increased working capital line for Hydrodec of North 
America LLC, to fund appropriately the North American business following 
the rebuild and expansion of the Canton re-refinery. This creates a more 
efficient capital structure, introduces competitively priced debt onto the 
balance sheet of the operating company, and gives us the capability to 
fund additional working capital for the expanded business as well as 
creating flexibility for Hydrodec as a group to invest further in 
strengthening the value chain or in other opportunities.
Outlook
The Board expects 2015 will be a year of regaining momentum, much as 
we were doing in 2013. Clearly Canton is very important and we will be 
looking to rebuild the business and ramp up production from the second 
and third quarters. It will be very interesting to see how far we can take this 
new design and equipment through the rest of the year and this is a very 
exciting proposition for us. In the UK, the key is resolving the market 
structure of the collections business in the short term whilst making 
progress on the UK re-refinery project including building the business case 
and resolving how best to fund and develop this project. Moreover, 
because of our actions I am confident that growth can be delivered at 
lower risk and from a stronger financial base than we envisaged in our 
original strategy from September 2012. Delivering an expanded Canton, 
re-locating in Australia and progressing our plans for a re-refinery in the UK 
as we envisage today will put us back, or at least very close, to our original 
trajectory from before the incident.
Ian Smale
Chief Executive Officer
20 March 2015 13
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Hydrodec Annual Report & Accounts 2014
UK re-refinery project
Our proposal to develop a 75 million litre base oil re-refining facility in the 
UK is clearly supported by the Department of Environment, Food and Rural 
Affair’s infrastructure plan for the UK, its national policy for hazardous waste 
and relevant planning legislation.
The development constitutes a nationally significant infrastructure 
project (NSIP) requiring a statutory development consent order 
from the Secretary of State. This positions the Hydrodec project 
within a national framework for development consent (rather 
than local planning), offering greater clarity of process, with a 
defined framework for consultation, consideration of the 
application and determination within a guaranteed time line.
A lubricant oil re-refinery will provide the core development 
proposition. It is intended that this will be followed in due 
course by a Hydrodec proprietary transformer oil re-refining 
capability and the potential for a second phase lubricant oil 
re-refinery, thereby creating a fully-integrated world scale 
used oil treatment and processing facility supplied by 
Hydrodec UK’s integrated collection and logistics operations. 
