 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s Statement
Well, what a year it has been. The IPO completed in September and was not what I had expected - loved the road 
show - and it was well received. Then straight to the biggest show in our calendar, GITEX, where we launched four 
new products: all of them running Windows Mobile™ 5 and one 3G enabled product.  GITEX was a rousing success 
with more than a month’s sales placed in one day. 
But then we faced a major challenge. Microsoft Active Sync® had a major fault and the technical support centre 
went stellar, inundated with requests from customers to get their new devices working with their PCs. It took 
every piece of technical knowledge we had to ﬁ nd a manual work around for our customers. In the six weeks 
before Microsoft released a new version of Active Sync®, we only had two customers return their devices. This 
shows the value in having only qualiﬁ ed engineers in our technical support centre. The entire team did a great job 
during this time. I must also say that Microsoft did an excellent job providing support to us during this difﬁ cult 
time as well.  We did however have to curtail sales at this time which had a knock-on effect over the Christmas 
period, signiﬁ cantly hitting sales in what should normally be our best quarter, resulting in the announcement 
made in January. There is nothing more frustrating than not being able to deliver results because of a problem 
outside your control. 
We stated in January how our fourth quarter would go, and it went exactly as predicted, allowing us to achieve 
year end sales of $206 million and proﬁ t before tax of $22.5 million - which is very good considering the 
challenges we faced in what should normally be our best quarter.  In February we were at 3GSM Congress which 
was held in Barcelona for the ﬁ rst time. Our partners and colleagues were given the ﬁ rst glimpse of the i-mate™ 
Suite software bundle which generated a great deal of excitement.  
The future is looking very positive. We indicated at the time of the IPO that we would seek to expand our supplier 
base and we have now signed up new manufacturing partners, in addition to HTC, who will strengthen and 
complement our product range. This will result in us having a more robust supply chain going forward. We have 
a roadmap of products for the next two years covering up to some 30 products, the majority of which will be 
exclusive to i-mate. We will also reveal our own exclusive products at 3GSM Congress in Barcelona next February. 
These products will be our ﬁ rst completely designed and manufactured products and we believe they will be the 
next step in mobile phone computing, having been designed around our software strategy and to blend with 
Microsoft’s broader strategy. 
While ﬁ nancial revenues from software and services have so far been limited, we have the largest user group of 
Windows Mobile™ users in the world through club i-mate. We will continue to increase the selection of services 
that we offer through the   club site. We expect that over the next 3 years, software and services will become an 
increasingly important part of our business in terms of both revenues and margins. Our i-mate™ games 
offering, with our recently announced play in – play out feature, is the most advanced within the Windows 
Mobile™ platform.  The functionality, where a player can swap seamlessly while playing live interactive games 
between a PC and an i-mate™ device without leaving the live interactive game, has been very well received. 
Our software, i-mate™ Suite, consisting of three separate modules – i-mate™ Control, i-mate™ Backup and 
i-mate™ 1-View is what IT managers have been waiting for.  i-mate™ Control gives a corporate IT manager the 
same command over his Windows Mobile™ devices as he has over his PC infrastructure, but all remotely, so that 
he can implement his IT structures and policies over all his Windows Mobile™ devices. i-mate™1-View for 
corporate extends our remote ﬁ le access software to a corporate to allow ﬁ le sharing within groups and 
departments, all secured behind the corporate ﬁ rewall and under the control of the IT manager.  7 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
i-mate™ Backup allows a device to be backed up, either the whole device or just incremental changes to the 
device, as and when required by the user or IT manager and all held behind the corporate ﬁ rewall. Each module 
of the i-mate™ Suite is a very powerful tool in its own right but when combined together they are awesome, with 
the ability to work on every Windows Mobile™ powered device. Several Corporate customers are currently under 
Beta test with a very good response. We are in discussions with several large corporations to license 
i-mate™ Suite to them. Several smaller customers are also on trial and we are hosting and servicing their mobile 
employees via club i-mate™, providing useful input into deﬁ ning this service level. We have a two year software 
roadmap outlined to bring more features into the i-mate™ Suite and more service offerings all in line with the 
strategies mentioned above. We are accordingly increasing the number of software and support engineers 
in Dubai, Seattle and Armenia in order to deliver these offerings.
i-mate continues to deliver superior customer service which is demonstrated by low levels of complaints to our 
call centres, device returns, repairs and response times. Our return level from customers who are dissatisﬁ ed with 
the out-of-box experience is industry beating at well less than 1%.
If I have a disappointment about last year, it is that the U.S. market growth was hindered by the availability of 
appropriate product. We regard the U.S. as a huge opportunity and I will now be focusing effort there, to energise 
our selling efforts and deepen our partnership with Microsoft. Dawn Robson has been appointed Chief Operating 
Ofﬁ cer, operating out of Dubai.
The coming year will require a lot of investment to ensure we can deliver on all of our commitments. When we 
listed, we identiﬁ ed the areas of investment following receipt of the proceeds as product development, software, 
and infrastructure and that is what we are doing. We have clearly identiﬁ ed our target markets, that is the 250 
million Microsoft® Exchange seats worldwide and the small companies that require technical support while 
mobile. With our product and software roadmap well developed, we are setting ourselves up very well technically 
going forward to ensure we manage the growth, infrastructure and working capital of the business to realise the 
potential of the next two years.
 
Jim Morrison
CEO
Chief Executive’s Statement
