 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Overview
Revenue during the year increased signiﬁ cantly from $136 million to $206 million. This 51% increase highlights 
the continued growth of our core business and our increased geographical penetration facilitates the launch of 
further new products in the future. European growth was over 100% this year, supplanting the Middle East as the 
largest market with 36% of overall revenue.  As a result of this increased revenue, gross proﬁ t increased 41% by 
$14.5 million to $49.6 million. Proﬁ t for the year has increased 56% to $21.5 million and basic earnings per share 
has risen by 49% to 17.44 cents.  The Company has delivered results in line with market expectations, continuing 
to achieve strong growth in both sales and proﬁ ts. This was achieved with hardly any contribution from the USA 
where lack of appropriate product slowed our progress.
The ﬁ nancial statements for the year are the ﬁ rst to be prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS), as discussed in the Financial Review, and there are no differences affecting the Group’s 
equity, net income or cash ﬂ ows arising on transition from UK GAAP .
Market Highlights
There has been a marked growth in the uptake of the Windows Mobile™ operating system.  In the next two 
years the Windows Mobile™ market is projected to grow over 400%. A combination of the demand for more 
sophisticated devices with the familiarity and functionality offered by Microsoft® Windows Mobile™ operating 
system is expected to drive continuing rapid growth in this market segment. Small and medium-sized businesses 
represent a huge potential market for smart mobile devices as employee mobility continues to increase, creating 
a need for greater ﬂ exibility and mobile communications, both for voice and data, as part of the business 
infrastructure. Canalys estimates that there are 19.2 million companies with fewer than 500 employees in Western 
Europe alone. It predicts that the opportunity for Enterprise mobility is enormous with the action so far being just 
the tip of the iceberg, as only 1.2% of corporate email boxes have been mobilised. 
We believe that our strategy is perfectly targeted for delivering what corporations require from mobility using 
Windows Mobile™ devices: being a diverse range of products based on technology that the IT administrator is 
already familiar with; deep customization of the products (far more than is possible by the user); a set of tools that 
allow the products to be centrally managed; 24/7 support and complete detachment from the operator. This is 
available to the customer no matter how small at extremely affordable prices.
Operational Highlights
We believe that our service offering has been instrumental in securing a number of major enterprise contract wins. 
During the year the Company launched 8 new products – including products utilizing Windows Mobile™ 5.0, and 
3G.  The Company coped admirably well with the Microsoft Active Sync® software problems faced by it at the end 
of 2005 leading to delays in shipments and its excellent 24/7 technical support centre minimised customer 
dissatisfaction and returns until Microsoft® released its update. 
Our product pipeline is considerably stronger in the coming year. We have stood by our commitment to expand 
our manufacturer base by signing up new manufacturing partners who will further strengthen the range 
and depth of products. Work also continues on our own exclusive designs which will be revealed in February next 
year, requiring major investment both in NRE costs and network testing approvals. This will provide the Company 
with exclusive designs in all markets and should boost sales in the US and Europe. 
Chairman’s Statement 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Our investment in the service offering  i-mate™ Suite, a complete solution for business-wide management, 
providing command and control, security of mobile devices, and data backup capabilities, will start to pay off in 
the second half of this year with the product launched in May.  This software suite underpins our strategy of 
investing in Enterprise mobility and initial feedback has been very positive. Investment will continue with new 
releases planned to further enhance the functionality: both for the larger enterprises who require complete 
control over their mobile devices; and smaller companies who require a more service-led offering. In order to 
launch i-mate™ Suite into the marketplace, an additional budget of USD 3 million has been allocated as 
marketing spend for the ﬁ rst half of the year.
Outlook
The year has started well with strong growth in shipments. The year is going to be one of signiﬁ cant investment 
and change for the Company. The challenge will be to capitalise on the stronger than anticipated growth 
opportunities we see in all markets, whilst investing behind the rapid diversiﬁ cation of our suppliers, expansion 
into new territories and successfully launching our software offerings and new exclusive designs. We expect the 
year to March 2007 to show further progress, but with a front-end loaded investment programme behind our 
growth initiatives, there may be some impact on proﬁ ts in the ﬁ rst half. We look to a very strong second half as 
the beneﬁ ts of our investment begin to ﬂ ow. Overall, we expect 2007 to be a year of signiﬁ cant progress.
Finally, I have recently had an extremely positive and encouraging week travelling with Jim in Taiwan and China 
meeting with our new manufacturing partners. A lot of hard work and investment is required to bring the 
product portfolio to market and I have every conﬁ dence in all at i-mate to achieve this in the forthcoming year.
Bernard Cragg, Chairman   
 
Chairman’s Statement
