 04
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Chairman’s statement
George A Hayter
Chairman
“This has been a notable
year for the Group.” 
We delivered good results, ahead of market
expectations; we modified the structure of the Group
by successfully reducing the scale of our IT Solutions
business whilst we continued to aggressively grow
both our IT Support and Business Continuity
operations; we completed the acquisition of ITM
Support Services to increase the depth and coverage
of our IT Support operations; and we continued our
ambitious roll-out programme of Business Continuity
centres across the UK. Overall this was a very 
good performance.
Financial results
Group turnover for the year remained relatively
unchanged at £77.5 million, reflecting the planned
reduction in our IT Solutions operations together with
good organic growth in our IT Support and Business
Continuity activities. 
Notably, our Business Continuity operation maintained
its impressive growth record reporting a 25% increase
in turnover compared to the previous year. Over the
last four years this operation has reported a compound
annual growth rate of over 30% per annum.
Gross profits held up well during the year in all three 
of our operations, indeed gross profits rose in our 
IT Solutions operations as a result of the restructuring
measures taken this year. Overall, the quality of our
earnings increased with 82% (2003: 76%) of our gross
profits now being derived from our contract based
activities in IT Support and Business Continuity . 
One of the key strengths of the Group is its ability to
generate cash. This year the Group produced a net
cash inflow from operating activities of £11.5 million
compared to £10.1 million in 2003. This is an excellent
performance and represents 208% of operating profit
before amortisation.
Operating profits (before amortisation and last year’s
exceptional item) rose by 5% to £5.5 million 
(2003: £5.2 million). This was a particularly good
performance as this figure includes start-up operating
losses of £428,000 (2003: £72,000) in respect of the
new Business Continuity centres opened during the
year. If these losses had not affected the operating
profit during the year , then organic growth in operating
profit would have been 12%. This serves to illustrate
the effects of the investment programme on our
reported results and the strength of the underlying
business model in delivering organic growth.
Profit before tax (before amortisation and last year’s
exceptional item) increased by 2.5% to £5.0 million
compared to £4.9 million for the previous year 
despite a 45% higher interest charge arising from
increased borrowings to fund the continuing
investment programme.
  05
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004 Chairman’s statement
Dividend
As a result of the continued strong overall performance
of the Group, the Board is recommending a final
dividend of 2.25 pence per share. This gives a total
dividend for the year of 3.45 pence per share, an
increase of 4% compared to 3.31 pence for the
previous financial year. 
Strategy
The Group strategy has remained unchanged as we
continue to offer all three of our complementary
services to our customers across the UK as part of 
a total IT Assurance service. Our strategy delivers
enhanced business availability to our customers
through a combination of our IT Support, IT Solutions
and Business Continuity services that we market
under the IT Assurance banner. We aim to service 
the small and mid-sized corporate marketplace 
where the need for our IT skills is particularly strong,
however we also service larger corporates who find
the combination of our services attractive. 
We are developing and investing in the business 
to drive future growth in line with this focussed IT
Assurance strategy and we will continue to enhance
our organic growth with appropriate acquisitions,
principally in the IT Support area. 
Supported by our strong operating cash flow, we are
also committed to completing our strategy to build 
a UK-wide network of Business Continuity centres to
complement our other Business Continuity services.
We believe that the rapidly growing Business Continuity
market provides considerable opportunities for the
Group and our profile in this marketplace is increasing
as we continue to widen the geographical scope 
of our services.
We consider that a further three Business Continuity
centres will be needed to provide sufficient UK
coverage and complete the investment phase of 
our UK wide rollout. Thereafter, we will seek to build
centres driven by specific customer demand. We 
will continue to drive forward this ambitious rollout
programme in as short a timescale as possible without
prejudicing our financial performance. 
Corporate developments
As planned, a significant proportion of our investment
programme was focussed on our Business Continuity
operations. We opened sites in Manchester and
Sevenoaks during the financial year. Both of which
have started well. In July 2004 we opened our new
Bristol Business Continuity centre, our tenth site. 
I am pleased to report that sales have also started 
well for this facility. 
In April 2004 we announced that, due to customer
demand, we would double the size of our Business
Continuity facilities in London. The refit programme 
of this extended capacity is progressing well and 
we expect to open our new facility in stages during 
the current financial year. We have already received
letters of intent for extensions to existing contracts
and new business for this facility as the capacity
becomes available.
In December 2003 we acquired the ITM Support
Services business. This business adds depth and
coverage to our IT Support operations by bringing 
IBM mid-range support capabilities to the Group. 
I am pleased to report that the business has now been
fully integrated and, whilst it made a loss for the year
due to reorganisation costs, it has been brought into
monthly profitability in line with our expectations 
at the time of acquisition. We expect this acquisition 
to be earnings enhancing in the new financial year.
ICM people
In our service focussed business, we are dependant
on the commitment and professionalism of our
employees to ensure that we deliver to our clients 
the quality service they expect. I would like to 
express the Board’s appreciation for the effort and
commitment which all staff have again made during
this demanding year. 
Outlook
We started the new financial year with good contracted
order books and good visibility of income in our 
IT Support and Business Continuity activities. Forward
visibility in these operations increased from last year
with £23.4 million of revenue already booked for the
first half of the current financial year. We also started
the year with stabilised trading conditions for our 
IT Solutions activity. This division, which now forms 
a smaller focus for the Group, is currently trading in
line with our expectations. 
Strong forward visibility and overall healthy underlying
demand for our services will leave us well placed 
to deliver satisfactory annual results and to continue
the momentum which we have built up towards
completing the investment phase of our Business
Continuity operations. 06
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
In a competitive environment...
...we ensure that business systems
are safeguarded in every eventuality.
