 Chief Executive’s review
07
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s review
Barry A Roberts
Chief Executive
In today’s 24 x 7 business environment most
customers who use complex IT systems to operate
and control their business need total availability.
However, it is not just availability of IT systems which
determine a company’s ability to run its business.
Availability of business infrastructure, particularly
premises and telecoms, is equally important. Our IT
Assurance services provide the strategy and
capability to address our customer’s total Business
Availability requirements. 
Our IT Assurance service provides a customer with 
a single business partner who develops a far greater
understanding of that customer’s requirements and 
as a result is able to offer more tailored services to
meet all their Business Availability needs. 
We achieve this by assisting customers with the
development of their IT infrastructure, supporting that
infrastructure through its lifecycle and, in the event 
of a disaster which prevents access to IT or office
facilities, providing effective Business Continuity
services to help them continue to run their business.
This is a very attractive offering for small and 
medium enterprises that may have limited internal 
IT management resources.
“The main focus of the
Group is to deliver 
Business Availability to 
the customers we serve.”  08
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
In a competitive environment...
...we give our customers the
confidence of optimum system
availability around the clock. 09
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s review
continued
Chief Executive’s review
IT Support
IT Support
Turnover in our IT Support business grew by 17% to
£32.4 million (2003: £27.8 million) after a £2.8 million
contribution to turnover from the ITM Support
Services business which we acquired in December
2003. This was a good performance as it includes the
reported loss of a large contract which affected the
contract base from the beginning of the year. 
Visibility in this area continues to be strong, with 
£17.3 million of revenues in the division already
committed for the first half of the current financial year.
Gross profits in IT Support rose by 13%, which is
slightly less than the turnover growth, due to lower
margins in the larger outsourcing contracts won
during the year.
The acquisition of ITM Support services has
significantly strengthened the Group’s capability in the
mid-range IT Support market and has increased the
Group’s customer base. It also enables us to extend
our IT Assurance strategy by enabling us to provide 
an integrated package of sales solutions, support for
systems and business continuity capabilities for 
IBM equipment.
The need for reliable and cost effective IT systems 
has never been more important to our customers. Our
contracted support and managed services products
assist customers in providing this cost effective high
ongoing availability from their IT infrastructure. Our 
IT Support service encompasses a wide range of
hardware and software support, hotline telephone
support, helpdesk services, hosted services, facilities
management and remote diagnostic and network
management services. We assist customers to factor
business risk considerations into their support
contracts in line with their identified business priorities
and needs. Our IT Support products are then tailored
further to each customers requirements through the
addition of support extensions and options.
The major strength of our IT Support services is the
breadth of multi-vendor capability and the fact that 
our services are delivered by our own dedicated
support personnel operating through 14 support
centres located throughout the UK. These support
centres are strategically located to give true nationwide
coverage and place our resources within two hours 
of 98% of UK businesses. This differentiates us from
our competitors and is key in maintaining the effective
delivery of IT availability services to our customers. 
We continue to win quality business in what has
always been a very competitive marketplace. We also
expect to benefit from the wider operational base
arising from the inclusion of ITM Support Services. 10
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
In a competitive environment...
...our focus on their business needs 
gives our customers the confidence to
implement innovative business solutions. 11
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s review
continued
Chief Executive’s review
IT Solutions
IT Solutions 
As noted in my report last year, we have taken steps 
to reduce the size of the IT Solutions activities of the
group by withdrawing from elements of lower margin
business. These reductions were achieved without
exceptional charge.
As a result of the planned changes made during the
year, turnover in the IT Solutions business fell by 18%
to £33.1 million (2003: £40.4 million) whilst removal 
of lower margin business meant that gross profit only
fell by 16%.
Our IT Solutions division delivers a wide range of 
IT infrastructure and business solutions to the
commercial and education marketplaces. T ypically
services provided range from the integration and
installation of customer-defined hardware or software
to consultancy, design, specification, supply and
implementation of complex connectivity solutions 
and ‘turnkey’ multi-vendor networked systems.
Consulting services are offered through the Group’s
Professional Services division where our IT consultants
work directly with clients to design and recommend
cost effective solutions to commercial IT problems.
The supply of products will typically follow the
consultancy phase and entail procuring, integrating
and installing equipment and software from many
manufacturers and often includes the project
management of the implementation.
The business offers considerable breadth in
professional services from line of business applications
based upon Microsoft Business Solutions products,
through to complete IT infrastructure design. Core
strengths in infrastructure design involve HP , IBM,
Cisco, Microsoft, Novell, Citrix, and Linux technologies.
Our network competencies are backed by
manufacturer accreditations and include the capability
for network design, configuration and installation
services on local area networks, wide area networks,
storage network solutions and IP telephony
installations. The Group’s strength in networking and
telecoms is complemented by further contracted
services in the area of Internet Service Provision. 
The advent of broadband has created significant
opportunity for low cost connectivity solutions and the
Group delivers these for its corporate customers by
offering bandwidth sale, network monitoring and
network management. In addition we tailor, implement
and offer support contracts for best of breed security
and network management software products.
We have no current plans to make further reductions
in this activity as we see it as an important part of the
IT Assurance model. We are however, concentrating
on delivering the more margin rich professional
services, whilst continuing to monitor our headcount
and activity levels in this division against market
opportunity. Recently we have seen market conditions
stabilise, and quotation activity is healthy and this
division is currently performing in line with our
expectations.  12
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s review
Business Continuity
Business Continuity
The Business Continuity division grew turnover by
25% to £12.0 million compared to £9.6 million for 
the same period in 2003. The strong growth in this 
Division reflects the continued and rapid growth in 
the contracted base and is assisted by increasing
awareness of our Business Continuity services. 
Gross profits in this activity also rose by 25%.
The division is benefiting from the Group’s consistent
investment programme over the last few years which
has created a nationwide network of 10 Alternative
Workplace and Data Hosting centres together with
UK-wide Mobile and Relocatable Business Continuity
services.
ICM offers four types of Business Continuity services: 
•
Relocatable Recovery provides for smaller IT
equipment to be shipped to and installed on the
customer’s site in the event of a disaster; 
•
Mobile Recovery utilises ICM’s fleet of mobile
computing data-centres which can be deployed to 
a customer site in the UK following a disaster; 
•
Recovery Hosting facilities provides data access 
to managed data centres with resilient high speed
communications links; and, 
•
Alternative Workplace Recovery allows customers
to relocate staff to a specified office configuration,
including computer networks and office equipment,
within a Business Continuity Centre in the event that 
a customer’s offices become unusable through some
unexpected event or disaster. 
In July 2003 we opened our Sevenoaks Business
Continuity Centre following a specialist refit. The
centre caters for 300 recovery positions and offers
datacentre services, which are another area of rising
customer demand in Business Continuity services.
The Sevenoaks Business Continuity Centre is located
two miles from the M25, M26 and M20 and is adjacent
to the Sevenoaks main-line train station. The centre is
generating strong interest from organisations both from
inner London and Kent looking for an outer London
Business Recovery facility. New contract signings
since it opened have been excellent. We now have 
a network of three sites in the South East providing
facilities in Sevenoaks, Wapping and High Wycombe
giving effective cover for a customer’s inner and outer
London business continuity strategy.
Our second Manchester Business Continuity Centre
opened for business at the end of August 2003. This
centre caters for 400 recovery positions together with
datacentre capability. The centre is close to the M60
and M602 and is adjacent to the Metro tram link to
central Manchester. New business signings for this
centre have also been healthy. 13
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s review
continued
In November 2003 we purchased a site in Bristol, 
the Group’s tenth Business Continuity Centre. This 
site underwent a specialist refit during the year and
now provides up to 400 recovery positions together
with datacentre capability. The site is based close to
the M4 and M5 junction and to the Bristol Parkway 
main-line railway station. This centre opened in 
July 2004 and initial sales for this centre have been
strong. 
In April 2004 we announced that we would double our
London Business Continuity capacity by expanding
our Wapping site as a direct response to customer
demand. We obtained the lease of an adjacent
building to the existing centre and, following a
specialist refit, the site capacity will be increased from
250 to 500 recovery positions together with additional
high availability and data hosting capability. The site
will open in phases during this financial year and 
once fully open we will be able to offer 1,000 recovery
positions serving inner and outer London.
We believe that our strategic investment in establishing
a nationwide network of Business Continuity centres
is a valid one. This was effectively demonstrated
following the telecoms fire in Manchester in March
2004 which seriously disrupted telephone services 
to users in the Greater Manchester area. On that
occasion the Group had both of its Recovery Centres
in use recovering six contracted companies who
called upon our services because they were unable 
to make or receive telephone calls. All six were dealt
with effectively in line with their needs and the effects
on their businesses were minimised.
Mid-sized companies are increasingly making
provision for Business Continuity services, either
through tiered requirements from their own global
clients demanding contingency planning as part of
their supply chain management, or simply their own
increased awareness of the risks to their business. 
The result is that the Group’s sales pipeline and
activity levels remain high in this division and we have
again expanded our sales capacity in order to take
advantage of the increasing opportunity. Our order
book continues to be strong with £6.1 million of
revenues in the Division already committed for the 
first half of the current financial year.
Summary
Our IT Assurance model is continuing to find favour in
an environment where existing IT departments seek to
provide total IT availability within affordable parameters
and where single source supply arrangements are
sought by increasingly more customers. 
The drivers in the Business Continuity marketplace
continue to strengthen and the barriers to entry to that
marketplace are substantial. We continue to drive our
business towards the completion of the investment 
in our Business Continuity division to take advantage
of the opportunity which exists and we believe will
continue to grow. We see this as a key feature of our
ongoing strategic development.
We also continue to seek earnings enhancing
acquisitions which will strengthen our business model
and add critical mass to our contracted operations
which tend to benefit from economies of scale.
 
