 08
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review 
The Group continues to focus on the delivery of business
availability to its customers. The ‘always on’ business
environment in which most customers operate demands
total availability from their IT systems and processes.
However, it is not just availability of IT systems which
determine a company’s ability to run its business. Availability
of business infrastructure, particularly premises and
telecoms, is equally important. Our IT Assurance services
provide the strategy and capability to address customer’s
total availability requirements.
Our IT Assurance services are very attractive to small and
medium sized enterprises that may have limited internal IT
management resources. However, our Business Continuity
division also attracts larger customers seeking the depth 
and geographic coverage which that business offers. 
Chief Executive’s review
Barry Roberts
Chief Executive 09
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued 10
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued
...we give our customers 
the confidence of optimum
system availability around
the clock. IT Support
Turnover in our IT Support business grew by 8% to £35.0
million (2004: £32.4 million). This was a good performance
in a very competitive environment.
Visibility in this area continues to be good, with £16.2 million
of revenues in the division already committed for the first
half of the current financial year. Gross profits in IT Support
rose by 7%, which is slightly less than the turnover growth,
due to lower margins on contracts secured during the year.
The need for reliable and cost effective IT systems has never
been more important to our customers. The contracted
support and managed services products assist customers 
in providing this cost effective high ongoing availability from
their IT infrastructure. The major strength of our IT Support
services is the breadth of multi-vendor capability and the
fact that its services are delivered by a dedicated support
personnel operating through 14 support centres located
throughout the UK.
At the last interim stage we stated that in the current
financial year, Hewlett Packard had indicated that it would
look to execute previously subcontracted non-HP business
internally, following the acquisition of the Synstar business
last year. This will lead to lower subcontract business from
Hewlett Packard in the Group’s current financial year. 
We continue to win quality business in what continues to be 
a very difficult marketplace. However, the new financial year
started from a lower point and therefore this is likely to affect
the year-on-year rate of growth of the IT Support Division. 
11
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued
IT Support 12
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued
IT Solutions 
Turnover in the IT Solutions business fell by 14% to 
£28.6 million (2004: £33.1 million), as a result of lower
volumes in the low margin desktop supply business partially
offset by higher activity in the consultancy and value added
business. As a result of this gross profit only fell by 11%.
Our IT Solutions division delivers a wide range of IT
infrastructure and business solutions to the commercial and
education marketplaces with Consulting services provided
through the Group’s Professional Services operation.
The business offers considerable breadth in professional
services from line of business applications based upon
Microsoft Business Solutions products, through to complete
IT infrastructure design. Core strengths in infrastructure
design involve HP , IBM, Cisco, Microsoft, Novell, Citrix, and
Linux technologies. Our network competencies are backed
by manufacturer accreditations and include the capability
for network design, configuration and installation services
on local area networks, wide area networks, storage network
solutions and IP telephony installations. The Group’s strength
in networking and telecoms is complemented by further
contracted services in the area of Internet Service Provision. 
Our continued concentration on delivering more margin
rich professional services is allowing us to reshape this
business successfully. We continue to monitor headcount
and activity levels in this division against market opportunity.
Market conditions remain extremely competitive. However,
quotation activity continues to be healthy and this division
continues to perform in line with the Board’s expectations. 
IT Solutions 13
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued
...our focus on their business
needs gives our customers the
confidence to implement
innovative business solutions. 14
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued
“T he environment for business
continuity is maturing and 
a properly constituted risk
management plan is now
becoming the norm rather than
the exception.” 15
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s review continued
Business Continuity
The Business Continuity division grew turnover by 18% to
£14.0 million (2004: £12.0 million). The contracted base 
has continued to grow, assisted by increasing regulatory
pressure and awareness of our Business Continuity services.
Gross profits in this activity rose by 25% as a result of better
utilisation of Business Continuity centres.
The division continues to benefit from the Group’s
investment programme over the last few years which has
created a UK-wide network of 11 Alternative Workplace 
and Data Hosting centres together with UK-wide Mobile
and Relocatable Business Continuity services.
ICM offers four types of Business Continuity services: 
• Relocatable Recovery provides for smaller IT equipment
to be shipped to and installed on the customer’s site in
the event of a disaster; 
• Mobile Recovery utilises ICM’s fleet of mobile computing
data-centres which can be deployed to a customer site 
in the UK following a disaster; 
• Recovery Hosting facilities provides data access to
managed data centres with resilient high speed
communications links; and, 
• Alternative Workplace Recovery allows customers to
relocate staff to a specified office configuration,
including computer networks and office equipment,
within a Business Continuity centre in the event that 
a customer’s offices become unusable through some
unexpected event or disaster. 
In July 2004 we opened our Business Continuity centre in
Bristol, the Group’s tenth Business Continuity centre. This
site underwent a specialist refit following its acquisition in
November 2003 and provides up to 400 recovery positions
together with datacentre capability. The site is based close
to the M4 and M5 junction and to the Bristol Parkway 
main-line railway station. 
In February 2005 we opened our expanded London Business
Continuity centre which doubled the capacity at the
Wapping site. Following a specialist refit, the site capacity
was increased from 250 to 500 recovery positions together
with additional high availability and data hosting capability.
We now offer over 1,000 recovery positions serving inner
and outer London.
In April 2005 we announced the Group’s first Business
Continuity centre in Scotland. The centre will provide up to
500 syndicated recovery positions together with 6,000
square feet of Datacentre facilities. The centre is located in
the Hamilton International Technology Park 20 minutes to
the South of Glasgow, close to the M74 and M8 motorways
and Glasgow’s new southern orbital road. The first phase 
of the centre opened in August 2005 and the remaining
phases will open over the remainder of this year.
The environment for business continuity is maturing and
provision of facilities as part of a properly constituted risk
management plan is now becoming the norm rather than
the exception. We are increasingly seeing mid-sized
companies making provision for business continuity services
and larger corporates viewing ICM credibly when looking 
at their business continuity provision because of the spread
and depth of the Group’s services. 
The Group’s sales pipeline and activity levels remain high 
in this division. Our order book continues to be strong with
£7.2 million of revenues in the division already committed
for the first half of the current financial year.
Summary
Our business model is continuing to find favour in an
environment where existing IT departments seek to provide
total IT availability within affordable parameters and where
single source supply arrangements are sought by increasingly
more customers. 
The drivers in the business continuity marketplace continue
to strengthen and the barriers to entry to that marketplace
are substantial. We continue to drive our business towards
the completion of the investment in our business continuity
division to take advantage of the opportunity which exists
and we believe will continue to grow. We see this as a key
feature of our ongoing strategic development.
We also continue to seek earnings enhancing acquisitions
which will strengthen our business model and add critical
mass to our contracted operations which tend to benefit
from economies of scale.
Barry Roberts
Chief Executive
Business Continuity
