 06
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and financial statements 2006
Chief Executive’s review
Since my appointment on
15 November 2005 we have made
a number of important moves. The
delivery of the London Essex Business
Continuity centre to schedule was
pivotal in allowing us to win excellent
quality customers for that facility. 
The centre now represents 33% 
of the enlarged estate and was 
brought into profitability within
two months of its opening; this
was an excellent achievement.
In addition, we have reviewed the
business, our markets and the demands
of our customers. The measures we have
started to implement to strengthen the
business, extend our product proposition
and to streamline the way we deliver 
our services to customers have already
been well received with a consequent
on-going benefit to Group revenues 
and profits.
2005/06 Performance
During the year under review, the 
Group operated as three revenue
streams: IT Support, IT Solutions
and Business Continuity. 
IT Support
IT Support encompasses hardware and
software support, helpdesk, remote
network management, hosting and
outsourcing of IT departments. The
revenue within this activity is based
entirely on long term ongoing contracts
typically of between one and three years
duration, and represented 44% of Group
revenues (2005: 45%).
Revenue in IT Support fell by 4% to
£33.5 million (2005: £35.0 million) as
Hewlett Packard (HP) decided to service
business previously subcontracted to
ICM themselves, following its acquisition
of Synstar. This was highlighted in last
year’s report and reduced revenue in
the year by approximately £2 million.
Consequently, the underlying
performance of the business, excluding
this impact, remained solid.
Steve Wainwright
Chief Executive 
“The London Essex Business Continuity
centre was brought into profitability
within two months of opening: this
was an excellent achievement.” Managed Availability
In Practice Systems 
In Practice Systems (IPS) is part of the
Cegedim Group, the largest supplier of
primary care systems in Europe. Introduced
by IPS in the UK in 1997, ‘Vision’ is now the
leading primary care clinical system for
the Windows environment. It is currently
installed in 1,700 practices throughout
the country.
“ICM set their sights on raising
service levels higher than had
been previously achieved”
Requirement
Reduce the incidence of service call-back
requests and restore confidence. 
Solution 
ICM’s solution involved a ring-fenced
engineering force, improving scheduling and
contract management, coupled with shared
resource for workshop, parts and logistics.
Once the primary objective had been achieved,
ICM set their sights on raising service levels
higher than had ever been previously achieved. Managed Availability
Cheshire Building Society 
Established in 1870 in Macclesfield, the
Cheshire was one of the original pioneers 
of the building society movement. Today,
with 900 staff, it is now the largest enterprise
of its kind in the North West of England.
Turnover through 51 dedicated branches 
and 13 property service branches puts the
Cheshire in the top 10 building societies in
the UK.
“The Cheshire now benefits
from having a partner that
understands their business.”
Requirement
Cheshire Building Society experienced significant
growth in both numbers of customers and the
amount of data needing to be processed and
protected. As part of its investment in new
technology and systems, the Cheshire needed
a key partner for their IT. 
Solution 
ICM was appointed to work closely with the
Cheshire, providing infrastructure solutions
and software implementation as well as reliable
support and business continuity services. The
Cheshire now benefits from having a provider
that understands their business and
complements their objectives. 09
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and financial statements 2006
Despite very competitive conditions in
the market, we achieved some excellent
contract wins during the year particularly
in the helpdesk, remote network
management and hosting areas. We also
brought on-line additional datacentre
capacity in Leeds. Success in these
areas has led to improved margins and
mitigated the loss of revenues from HP . 
The business has highly predictable
revenues and £15.9 million is already
committed for the first half of the
current year.
IT Solutions
IT Solutions comprises project based
infrastructure solutions including
consultancy and professional services,
hardware supply and integration,
industry standard software integration
services, data connectivity and complex
networking solutions. 
Revenue was £25.8 million (2005: 
£28.6 million) as we continued to
manage the changing mix of business
away from lower margin hardware
supply towards higher margin project
management and professional services.
IT Solutions now represents 34% 
of Group revenues down from 37% 
in 2005.
The market for professional services
continued to be stable throughout 
the year whilst the market for lower
margin PC technology continued to 
be challenging. 
Business Continuity
Business Continuity services encompass
relocatable recovery, mobile recovery,
on-line recovery and workplace recovery.
This activity is based entirely on long
term ongoing contracts typically of
between three and five years duration.
Revenue in the Business Continuity
division grew by 17% to £16.4 million
(2005: £14.0 million) and now
represents 22% of Group revenues
(2005: 18%).
Investment has continued in our
UK-wide rollout of Business Continuity
centres. The new developments in the
year were in Hamilton, Scotland and
Romford, Essex.
In August 2005 we opened our Scotland
Central Business Continuity centre.
The centre is located in the Hamilton
International Technology Park twenty
minutes to the south of Glasgow, close
to the M74 and M8 motorways and
Glasgow’s new southern orbital road.
This is ICM’s first Business Continuity
centre in Scotland and provides 500
syndicated workplace positions together
with datacentre facilities.
We opened the London Essex Business
Continuity centre in May 2006 following
an extensive rapid refit programme.
The 73,000 square feet site was
acquired during the year and provides
approximately 750 dedicated and
950 syndicated workplace positions
together with datacentre facilities. The
centre now represents one-third of  the
Group’s estate, as built up over the last
seven years. 
Chief Executive’s review continued
“Revenue in the Business Continuity
division grew by 17% to £16.4 million.”
