 04
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and financial statements 2006
Summary
During 2006, we delivered profits that
were ahead of market expectations in
a period that saw a number of rapid
and far reaching developments for the 
Group as we continued to extend our
capabilities as the leading UK provider 
of Business Availability services.  
We successfully acquired, refurbished
and opened our largest Business
Continuity centre to date during the
year in Romford, Essex. The investment
was brought into operation to a very
demanding timetable and transforms
our entire Business Continuity offering
with its scale and critical location. 
The London Essex Business Continuity
centre expands our capacity in workplace
recovery by over 33%. It enables us to
service a new and much larger class
of customer. The initial three major
contracts are all with substantial
international financial institutions. Most
importantly the centre became profitable
in July, only two months after opening.
Though considerably smaller in scale,
the opening of the Scotland Central
Business Continuity centre in August
2005 in Hamilton, near Glasgow, has 
had a very positive impact on our overall
Scottish presence, providing a focus for
all our Business Availability services in
the region.
In addition, ICM is strengthening its
Business Availability strategy to ensure
that the Group continues to meet
changing customer needs. This has
entailed extending ICM’s product
proposition, a streamlining of the
business and re-invigorating the
management structure. 
Financial results
Group revenue for the year marginally
declined to £75.7 million from
£77.6 million. We continued our
planned reduction in the IT Solutions
operations, whilst the Business Continuity
operations again achieved strong organic
growth. IT Support revenues marked
time, as they recovered from the
anticipated loss of the HP subcontract
business at the start of the financial year.
As in previous years, a high proportion
of gross margins were derived from
contracted revenues.
Underlying profits from operations
(as discussed more fully in the Finance
Review) increased by 4% to £6.2 million
with continued strong growth from
Business Continuity, offset by a lower
level of revenue from IT Solutions and
the effect of a lower contract base in
IT Support.
The impact of the opening of the London
Essex centre at Romford adversely
affected the trading results by some
£0.7 million. As a result, profit before tax
was £4.8 million (2005: £5.1 million). 
“2006 saw a number of rapid and far
reaching developments for the Group”
Chairman’s statement
Graham Meek
Chairman 05
ICM Computer Group plc
Annual report and financial statements 2006
Strong cash flow remains a feature
of the Group. Due to a favourable
movement in working capital, cash
generated from operations rose by
79% to £16.5 million. Although capital
expenditure more than doubled to a
record level of £14.8 million, the level
of net debt increased only slightly to
£13.3 million from £13.0 million.
Dividend
In keeping with our stated strategy, the
Board remains committed to at least
maintaining the real value of dividends
paid to shareholders. Accordingly, the
Board is recommending a final dividend
of 2.45p per share. This gives a total
dividend for the year of 3.75p per share,
an increase of 4% compared to 3.60p for
the previous financial year.
ICM people
As stated in last year’s Annual Report,
Steve Wainwright succeeded ICM’s 
co-founder, Barry Roberts, as Group
Chief Executive in November 2005 
after the Company’s AGM. The Board 
is impressed with the energy and verve
with which Steve is tackling his new
responsibilities.
In May 2006, Craig Fairey joined ICM 
as Finance Director. He comes with
highly relevant experience in the IT
services sector, and has already made 
a considerable impact in helping
streamline the Group’s legal and
organisational structure.
Tony Granelli, a co-founder of ICM 
and the third executive director, had
previously concentrated his attention 
on the IT Support activities. His brief
has now been expanded to manage
the delivery of the Group’s Managed
Availability activities. The positive results
from his professionalism and attention
to detail are already becoming apparent.
The other contributors to ICM’s success
are too numerous to list individually
here. However, special mention should
be made of the team which made
London Essex possible, on-time and 
on-budget, on a most demanding
project schedule. The Board thanks all
our staff throughout the UK for their
efforts in establishing ICM as the
Business Availability group.
Outlook
During the last three years Group
profitability has been maintained whilst
we have rebalanced the business mix
and invested heavily in the rapid growing
network of Business Continuity centres. 
There are now several factors contributing
to the Board’s confidence of a significant
improvement in performance in the
current financial year. 
• The maturing of our nationwide
network of regional Business
Continuity centres is leading to
enhanced returns across the portfolio.
The scope and need for investment
in new centres in untested regional
markets is now limited to two areas.
The short term impact of any such
build will also be proportionately less.
We will continue to look at upgrading
or expanding capacity in particular
regions as existing centres sell out.
• The start-up costs for the London
Essex Business Continuity centre had
an adverse impact of £0.7 million
during the year. The centre traded
profitably from July onwards. Further
contract wins will continue to enhance
the returns from this substantial
investment.
• Whilst the re-invigoration of our
activities and reorganisation of the
way we deliver to customers has
incurred some short term costs, we do
not expect that these costs will affect
profits for the current financial year as
a whole. By sharpening the way we
market and deliver services to our
customers, we expect a benefit to
contracted revenues.
Overall, the Board expects strengthening
growth in profits through the coming
year and beyond. ICM is well-positioned
to extend its market presence in a
profitable and cash-generative manner.
Graham Meek
Chairman
“The Board expects strengthening
growth in profits through the 
coming year and beyond.”
