 08 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2008
Commercial products/T echnological advantage/
Tea mwork/Focused execution/T ransformational
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Strategy
Despite the current global recession, 
IdaTech made significant progress 
achieving further commercial 
penetration and developing a more 
focused approach to achieve mass 
adoption of its fuel cell products.  
The Group’s approach to capturing  
the opportunity in its critical power 
markets is two-fold: continue to lay  
the foundation for mass commercial 
adoption of IdaTech’s ElectraGen™  
line of fuel cell products, and execute 
against the large scale commercial 
contract with ACME in India.
Achieving adoption
During 2008, IdaTech continued to 
differentiate itself with its ability to make 
hydrogen on site and as needed from 
liquid fuel using its proprietary reformer 
technology. The Group has found that 
this is a key competitive advantage and 
an enabler to early adoption of its fuel 
cell products. By the end of the year, 
IdaTech doubled the number of 
telecommunication companies it is 
certified with to 10. Five of these are  
from the top 10, ranked by global 
revenue. The Company also signed a 
national sales agreement with a top  
US telecommunication operator and 
began its first significant deployments  
in the USA. IdaTech is now certified in  
the USA, Mexico, Guatemala, Spain,  
Italy, UK and France. Certification by a 
telecommunications operator is a major 
commercial milestone which enables the 
Group’s products to be sold throughout 
the telecommunication network.
The ACME agreement
In October 2008, the Company signed  
a contract with ACME to develop and 
deliver up to 10,000 5kW fuel cell 
systems. ACME is a leading provider of 
comprehensive passive infrastructure 
solutions to wireless telecommunication 
operators in India. These systems are for 
deployment principally in India by 2010 
with a possible two additional 10,000 
unit orders. If successful, this contract 
will be highly important as it will 
validate a mass market for the Group’s 
products and will establish a base 
production platform for low cost,  
high volume fuel cell products and 
components which IdaTech believes  
will help early adoption. The advances 
that IdaTech has made to date have 
resulted in product simplification  
and performance improvements at 
significantly reduced overall cost.  
Our accelerated strategy
Focused 
execution: 
Our team is highly 
focused on securing 
top commercial 
relationships and 
contracts worldwide 
and achieving 
technological 
breakthroughs that 
will fuel Ida Tech’s 
growth and 
profitability. 09 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2008
The systems delivered under the ACME 
agreement will be the first to benefit 
from these changes; these will be 
followed by the next generation 
ElectraGen™ and iGen™ products.
While IdaTech’s commercial efforts 
remain squarely focused on these two 
strategies, the Group continues to drive 
development in advanced diesel-based 
fuel cell systems and industrial 
applications for metal membrane 
hydrogen production, prioritising 
resources and deliverables as necessary.
ACME agreement 
and update
The agreement is a three party contract 
between IdaTech, ACME and Ballard 
Power Systems Inc. (“Ballard”). Under 
the agreement, IdaTech will supply 
ACME with an initial 310 hydrogen fuel 
cell systems in 2009. In 2010 IdaTech  
will sell natural gas reformed fuel cell 
systems to ACME which will incorporate 
an IdaTech specially designed natural 
gas reformer. The fuel cell stacks will  
be supplied by Ballard. The agreement  
is subject to IdaTech and Ballard 
demonstrating certain design and 
performance criteria for the systems 
ahead of full deployment in early 2010.
ACME intends to deploy the systems 
throughout its key markets in India, 
principally as long duration backup 
power for base stations of its 
telecommunication customers. The 
systems will provide ACME’s customers 
with a more economic, reliable and 
environmentally acceptable product and 
will take advantage of the anticipated 
build-out over the next three years  
of over 200,000 new base stations 
throughout India.
The ACME agreement provides 
validation of the Group’s key 
competitive advantages which include 
its proprietary multi-fuel reforming and 
systems integration capabilities. 
IdaTech’s ability to reform a variety of 
commonly available fuels to produce 
hydrogen on site and as needed,  
enables IdaTech’s products to overcome 
the so called hydrogen barrier, the 
difficulties in supplying and managing 
compressed hydrogen gas which has 
previously been one of the key factors 
which has deterred the mass adoption 
of fuel cells.
The prototype of the hydrogen system 
has been running for six weeks and the 
five long-test units have been built and 
are commencing design validation 
testing. Shipments are expected to 
commence at the end of the second 
quarter and be complete by the end  
of 2009.
The development of the natural gas 
system is on schedule and is expected 
to be ready for shipment at the 
beginning of 2010 as planned.
The initial 310 systems deliverable under 
the ACME agreement will be built at 
IdaTech’s manufacturing facility in 
Tijuana, Mexico, which is currently  
being expanded and upgraded. These 
improvements will be used to produce 
the next generation ElectraGen™ 
systems once the hydrogen systems 
have been produced and shipped by  
the end of 2009.
IdaTech is in the process of establishing 
a manufacturing facility in the Delhi 
region of India to produce the natural 
gas-fuelled systems. This factory will 
benefit from proximity to the customer 
and the competitive supply chain that 
India offers and a flexible and skilled 
workforce. The production facility will 
be established in the second half of 
2009 and will be fully operational by  
the end of that year. This facility will be 
based on a similar model to that used  
in Tijuana, which was successfully 
completed on schedule and budget in 
2007 at a low capital cost. The Indian 
facility’s capacity will be four to five 
times larger than that of Tijuana, giving 
the ability to produce approximately 
10,000 units per annum. IdaTech 
anticipates using this production facility 
as an additional platform for IdaTech’s 
2008
In October 2008 the Company  
signed a contract with ACME to  
develop and deliver up to
10,000
5kW fuel cell systems. 1 0 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2008
Commercial products/T echnological advantage/
T eamwork/Focused execution/T ransformational
low cost manufacturing of fuel cell 
systems. IdaTech will continue to 
produce systems at its Mexican facility 
for its non-Indian business.
Commercial update
ElectraGen™
The ElectraGen™ is IdaTech’s primary 
family of fuel cell products with 5kW 
and 3kW power outputs. In 2008, 
IdaTech secured an additional five 
vendor qualifications, bringing the total 
as at the end of the year to 10. IdaTech 
continued to distribute its products 
through its global channel partner 
network as well as directly to the end 
user telecommunication companies.  
The Group’s focus was on those 
customers and geographies, such as 
North America, Latin America and South 
Africa, where IdaTech can demonstrate a 
compelling value proposition and where 
the Group believes there is significant 
potential for early market adoption.
As well as seeding the market with  
a number of telecommunication 
companies this year, the Group sold  
83 ElectraGen™ systems, substantially 
more than the 32 in the previous year.  
Of these, 70 were sold to six key 
telecommunication companies in  
North America and Latin America for 
commercial field deployment which 
IdaTech believes may produce larger 
scale deployments in 2009 and 2010. 
These systems are providing power in 
remote and difficult locations, some of 
which have never had backup capability 
before. Of the 83 systems, 94% were 
fully integrated reformed products 
using a methanol-water mix as a fuel, 
further demonstrating the preference 
for IdaTech’s fuel reforming technology.
As previously announced, IdaTech is  
also targeting deployments in which 
there are incentives for fuel cells. The  
US currently provides a tax incentive  
for fuel cell deployments, which was 
recently extended until 2016. During  
the year, the Group secured a national 
sales agreement with a major US 
telecommunications operator and won 
an order for 35 ElectraGen™ XTi systems 
which were successfully shipped  
to Florida to support sites at risk  
from hurricanes.
In Europe, IdaTech is participating in  
a German government-sponsored 
programme, the National Programme 
for Innovation, through its German 
distributor, b+w Electronics GmbH 
(“b+w”). In September 2008, IdaTech 
received an order from b+w for 30 direct 
hydrogen systems, 18 of which will  
be sold to b+w under this programme  
in 2009.
At the end of the year, IdaTech had 
received orders for 32 ElectraGen™ 
systems which were not yet shipped 
(2007 nil).
iGen™
The iGen™ Industrial is a compact 
certified 250W integrated fuel cell  
and reformer system for charging 
batteries in industrial applications.  
It is designed to work with battery  
packs and renewable energy systems 
such as solar and wind power in 
challenging environments.
The iGen™ Industrial product is currently 
under trial in a number of applications 
such as traffic signalling and portable 
traffic signage. Once these trials are 
completed, IdaTech expects iGen™  
sales to increase and the Group will 
continue to drive the larger scale 
commercialisation of the product.  
In total nine iGen™ systems were  
sold (2007 nil).
Chief Executive’s Business Review continued
T ransformational: 
Ida Tech is undergoing a 
transformational change as  
a result of the commercial  
and technological advances  
made in 2008. 11 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2008
Technical 
development
The focus of the technical development 
during the year has been on advancing 
IdaTech’s proprietary core competences 
in multi-fuel reforming, purification, 
integration and control technologies. In 
these areas, IdaTech has made a number 
of significant advancements which will 
be incorporated into the natural gas 
product developed under the ACME 
agreement and into the next generation 
ElectraGen™ and iGen™ products, due 
for launch in 2011. These will enable 
IdaTech to produce more robust and 
significantly more cost-effective 
integrated fuel cell systems. The first  
of these products to be launched will  
be the natural gas fuelled system for 
deployment in early 2010 under the 
ACME contract.
Hydrogen system for ACME
Development on the hydrogen  
system under the ACME agreement 
commenced in the second half of  
the year. The hydrogen system is  
due for launch at the end of the first 
half of 2009 and remains on target.  
A prototype has been successfully 
running for two months and units for 
long-term testing are being assembled.
Natural gas system development 
for ACME
The development of the natural gas 
system also commenced in the second 
half of the year. This product is due for 
launch in the first quarter of 2010 and 
the development remains on target to 
meet that due date. This product has 
significant cost and specification 
challenges which are being addressed 
by incorporating the technological 
advances in natural gas reforming, 
purification, integration and control 
technologies made in the year. 
Additionally the system will benefit 
from a drive to simplify significantly the 
product, a reduction in the number of 
components used, the use of the supply 
chain to assemble modules and the 
ability to purchase in quantities 1,000 
times greater than previously possible.
ElectraGen™ and iGen™
A 24V version of the ElectraGen™ was 
released at the beginning of the year in 
order to meet the demands of IdaTech’s 
customers in North America and Latin 
America. Due to the ACME agreement, 
the development of the next generation 
of these products was deferred until the 
second half of 2009. By leveraging the 
technical advances made in the ACME 
programme, the Group will effectively 
accelerate a generation of ElectraGen™ 
and iGen™ product development, 
resulting in a lower cost, more robust 
version of these products by 2011.
Stack development
Prior to the ACME agreement, IdaTech 
had entered into supply contracts with 
Ballard to supply their fuel cell stacks to 
IdaTech for incorporation into the next 
generation of ElectraGen™ and iGen™ 
products. IdaTech continues to seek the 
best technology for its products in order 
to bring greater value to its customers 
and shareholders. The Ballard stack  
was selected as it met all of IdaTech’s 
technical requirements at a lower 
overall cost.
IdaTech’s own internal stack research, 
development and production capability 
continues to give the Group the ability 
both to evaluate outsourced stacks, and 
develop its own stack in order to remain 
on the leading edge of an evolving 
technology. These stacks will be 
evaluated as part of the development  
of the next generation of products and 
enables IdaTech to focus on the fuel 
reforming, purification, controls and 
integration requirements of these 
94%
of ElectraGen™ systems sold were 
reformer-based versus hydrogen  
only, reinforcing IdaTech’s lead  
in fuel reforming 1 2 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2008
products, areas where the Group has 
successfully differentiated itself.
Third party developments
In 2007, IdaTech successfully delivered a 
dual fuel (diesel and military) integrated 
system to the US Army. During 2008, 
the second phase of this project was 
partially delivered; completion was 
deferred until 2009 which allowed 
IdaTech to concentrate upon delivering 
the ACME agreement. This resulted in a 
deferral of approximately US$0.5 million 
of revenue into 2009. The project will 
recommence in the second quarter 
of 2009.
During the year IdaTech continued 
to deliver two private commercial 
development contracts worth US$1.4 
million. Of this, US$1.3 million derived 
from the three year agreement, 
awarded at the end of 2006, with a 
large Japanese company to develop 
a palladium metal membrane system 
based on IdaTech’s patented HyPurium™ 
metal membrane for potential future 
applications of industrial scale hydrogen 
purifi cation. This contract continues 
into 2009 and the other contract was 
successfully concluded in 2008.
Financial overview
As noted in the Chairman’s Statement, 
the prior period for statutory reporting 
purposes consists of a long period of 
account (13 July 2006 to 31 December 
2007). The following fi nancial overview 
compares the audited results for the 
year to 31 December 2008 with those 
of the unaudited pro forma results for 
the year ended 31 December 2007.
Revenue for 2008 was US$5.9 million 
(2007 US$5.1 million) of which US$2.4 
million was from the sale of products 
in the ElectraGen™ and iGen™ ranges 
(2007 product revenue US$1.0 million). 
This refl ected increased product sales 
in 2008. Revenue from development 
contracts, derived from government and 
industrial customers was US$3.4 million, 
down from US$3.7 million in 2007 due 
to the deferral of US$0.5 million project 
revenue from 2008 to 2009 in order 
to focus the research and development 
resource on the fulfi lment of the 
ACME agreement.
A gross loss of US$3.3 million (2007 
profi t of US$0.4 million) was recorded. 
This loss arose as a result of the 
transition of production to Tijuana, 
Mexico from Bend, USA and a change 
in the revenue mix, with a decrease in 
project-related revenue which attracts 
a higher margin than product sales, 
which increased signifi cantly over the 
prior year level.
The operating loss for 2008 was US$21.9 
million (2007 US$16.3 million). This 
anticipated increase arose following an 
expansion in capability in the key areas 
of research and development and in 
sales, with the addition of a net 12 
employees during the year (2007 14 net 
gain). In addition, the manufacturing 
facility in Tijuana, Mexico, expanded to 
support the growing sales volumes in 
the second half of 2008.
For the year to 31 December 2008 
research costs including the 
amortisation of intangible assets of 
US$2.4 million were US$12.0 million 
(before deducting tax credits of US$1.8 
million). For the year to 31 December 
2007 research costs were US$9.7 million 
including amortisation of intangible 
assets of US$2.1 million (before 
deducting tax credits of US$1.6 million). 
The vast majority of this increase was 
due to the increase in headcount in 
2008 (and the full year costs of those 
hired in 2007) which rose by 20% to 
broaden and deepen the resources 
available, the incorporation of a 
long-term testing Group and the 
commencement in October 2008 of 
the hydrogen and natural gas system 
developments for ACME.
Sales, general and administrative 
expenses were US$0.1 million higher 
at US$10.8 million in the year ended 
31 December 2008 compared with 2007. 
There was a minor decrease in sales 
and marketing related expenses of US$0.1 
million. The costs of setting up the offi ce 
in Malaysia and the resultant increase in 
headcount were offset by reduced 
advertising expenses, travel expenses 
and consultant costs. Expenditure on 
trade shows fell in 2008 compared with 
2007 but this was offset by an increase in 
investment in demonstration equipment. 
General and administrative expenses 
increased by US$0.2 million as a result of 
Commercial products/T echnological advantage/
T eamwork/Focused execution/T ransformational
Chief Executive’s Business Review continued 13 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2008
the costs associated with entering into 
the ACME agreement.
Cash fl ow utilised by operations 
increased to US$18.1 million in the year 
(2007 US$13.6 million after a tax receipt 
of US$0.3 million) principally as a result 
of the planned increase in overheads, 
funding the gross loss and the build 
up of inventory.
The principal changes in the balance 
sheet are the increases in inventory, 
accounts receivable and borrowings. 
Inventory increased US$1.6 million 
to support the order backlog of 
32 ElectraGen™ systems as well as 
the ACME systems development and 
third party contract work.
Accounts receivable increased by 
US$0.6 million. Trade receivables 
increased by US$0.7 million as a result of 
the shipment of a 35 unit order in 
December, which were not due for 
payment by the end of the year.
During the year, IdaTech drew upon its 
loan facility with Investec, its principal 
shareholder. At the end of the year, 
US$7 million had been drawn. 
Funding and 
going concern
These fi nancial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis as 
Investec, IdaTech’s main shareholder, 
has indicated its willingness to fund the 
business for at least one year after the 
approval of these fi nancial statements. 
Additional disclosure surrounding the 
going concern and future funding is 
given in the Directors’ Report.
Current funding is via debt and it is the 
intention of IdaTech to seek additional 
equity to fund its operations until 
breakeven and not to draw upon this 
debt fi nance further than is absolutely 
necessary. Although the timing of this 
is yet to be fi nalised, it is highly likely 
IdaTech will seek to raise additional 
funds over the next 12 months.
Outlook
As previously announced, IdaTech plans 
to sell 310 hydrogen systems under the 
ACME agreement. Full deployment of 
systems for ACME is due to commence 
in early 2010 and in preparation for these 
shipments, IdaTech will complete the 
production facilities in Mexico and India. 
In addition to the sales under the ACME 
agreement, IdaTech expects to ship 
150–200 systems from organic sales 
growth, targeting customer accounts 
which will increase adoption and 
establish the base for large scale growth. 
During the year, IdaTech will continue 
to expand its sales network and seek 
to gain certifi cation by additional 
telecommunication customers.
In 2009, IdaTech expects iGen™ will 
conclude some of its initial fi eld trials, 
leading to higher volume deployments.
There are regional incentives for fuel cells 
despite the diffi cult current economic 
climate. The funding underlying the 
German government-sponsored 
programme National Innovation 
Programme is due to be fi nalised in 
2009. IdaTech and its partner, b+w, 
will benefi t from this scheme.
At the end of 2008, the US Federal 
Government extended the tax incentive 
scheme for fuel cells to 2016 and 
increased the incentive to US$3,000 
per kilowatt or 30%, whichever is lower. 
Additionally, the US American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009 has 
incentives for alternative energy.
During the initial phase of the ACME 
agreement in 2009, management 
intends to pursue third party 
development efforts selectively. 
As resources become available 
from the ACME project, third party 
contracts, which align with the 
product development strategy of 
the business, will be pursued.
Notwithstanding the fi nancial 
downturn and ongoing uncertainty, the 
Board believes that the developments 
made by IdaTech over the last year have 
signifi cantly improved its prospects for 
the future.
Hal Koyama
Chief Executive Offi cer
30 March 2009
Backlog of 
systems at the end of 2008
32
