 06 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s 
Statement
IdaTech made very good progress both commercially 
and technically in 2009. Commercially the Group has 
added a number of key customers with whom it is 
certified and has achieved an increase in the average 
order size compared with the prior year. The Group 
believes these are indications that the rate of 
adoption of IdaTech’s systems is increasing.
In addition, a number of strategic decisions were 
made during the year to ensure the Group remains 
firmly on track to reach near-term profitability. 
Amongst these were the decisions to renegotiate  
with ACME Telepower and to suspend the further 
development of the 250W iGen™ product line. IdaTech 
has identified a much larger opportunity for lower 
power output products and plans to redesign iGen™ 
to meet that opportunity. 
Technically, IdaTech made breakthroughs which will 
be utilised in the next generation systems currently 
under development. These breakthroughs 
significantly reduce cost whilst improving both the 
performance and the reliability of the system. 
IdaTech is on track to release these next generation 
systems in late 2010 and early 2011 and it is expected 
that they will lead the Group to cash breakeven.
Financial overview
Total sales increased 12% to US$6.6 million compared 
with US$5.9 million in 2008. Of particular note is the 
increase in revenue from product sales which 
increased from US$2.4 million in 2008 to US$4.5 
million in 2009. This increase was offset by a decrease 
in revenue from project work from US$3.4 million to 
US$2.0 million, highlighting the planned transition of 
the business to commercial product development. 
The operating loss before tax widened to US$33.5 
million from US$21.9 million in 2008. The majority of 
this increase arose due to the decision to cancel the 
development of the current version of the iGen™, 
which resulted in an accelerated write down of 
intangibles of US$4.5 million, and the unexpected loss 
of a US$2.5 million tax credit from the State of Oregon, 
the state in which IdaTech’s development activity 
occurs. IdaTech is appealing the loss of this tax credit. 
These financial statements have been prepared 
excluding the tax credit for 2009 (all amounts relating 
to prior years have been received by the Group) in the 
event the appeal is unsuccessful.
Funding
IdaTech’s majority shareholder, the Investec Group, 
has indicated its current intention to ensure that the 
Group is in a position to meet its debts as and when 
they fall due.
The loan note funding provided by Investec together 
with further funding required during the current year, 
will be repayable on 31 March 2011. The Directors are 
actively considering the options available to refinance 
these amounts ahead of the repayment date. 
After due consideration, the Directors have concluded 
it is appropriate to continue to prepare the financial 
statements on a going concern basis.
Further details are provided in the Directors’ Report  
on page 12.
People
2009 has been another challenging but encouraging 
year for IdaTech. Without the ongoing commitment, 
dedication and hard work of all of its employees, 
IdaTech would not be in the position it is to take 
advantage of the opportunities in its markets over  
the next few years and to ensure the Group fulfills  
its potential. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone 
at IdaTech for their contribution during the year.
Sir John Jennings
Chairman
16 March 2010
