 07 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s
Business Review
Overview of 2009 and path to profitability
In 2009, the Group refined its strategic plan to 
achieve cash break even and profitable growth at the 
earliest opportunity – IdaTech’s “Path to Profitability.” 
The principal objective of the Group’s path to 
profitability is to achieve sustainable cash break even 
and profitability as soon as possible and ahead of 
market expectations. This will be achieved by 
designing, manufacturing and selling products that 
are efficient, reliable and offer a compelling value 
proposition by significantly lowering the total cost of 
ownership. Against the backdrop of a very difficult 
year for businesses globally, IdaTech successfully 
executed against this plan and, despite its increased 
losses in the year, continued to move towards 
profitable growth. IdaTech’s path to profitability has 
four key elements:
Seeding the market: Prepare the worldwide • 
customer base for rapid adoption of IdaTech’s fuel 
cell products.
New product development: Identify and pursue • 
next generation fuel cell products that can 
compete directly in the diesel generator market 
and simultaneously derive attractive gross margins 
for the Group.
Lean production: Establishing and validating • 
flexible, low cost and high quality production 
capabilities.
Focusing on execution: Eliminate or de-emphasise • 
activities that distract the Group from its primary 
path to profitability and align resources to ensure 
success.
Seeding the market
IdaTech’s initial commercial focus is on the critical 
power backup market for the telecommunication 
industry. This market has been estimated to be worth 
around US$2 billion per annum, covering around 3 
million sites globally. Geographically, the Group is 
targeting the key markets of Asia, India and the 
Americas.
During 2009, IdaTech significantly expanded its reach 
into its target markets and increased its distributor 
network to 35 worldwide. IdaTech believes that its 
selective use of distribution partners leverages its 
ability to cost effectively expand across wide 
geographies. To date, the Group has achieved 
certification for its products with 25 
telecommunications companies, including five of the 
top 10 telecommunications companies worldwide by 
revenue. This strategy of seeding the market is paying 
off. In 2009, IdaTech recorded sales volume growth of 
over five times that shipped in 2008 and ended the 
year with a backlog of 108 units representing almost 
25% of the 2010 full year expected system sales, with 
significant initial and repeat orders in each of the 
Group’s key regions.
IdaTech sold and shipped 445 systems in 2009. All of 
these systems were in the targeted critical power 
backup application in the telecommunications 
market. Sales to customers for commercial 
deployments of IdaTech’s systems represented almost 
all of the system sales in the year, demonstrating the 
increasing commercialisation of IdaTech’s fuel cell 
systems, and with the average order size more than 
doubling compared with 2008.
As well as achieving a near doubling of unit sales of 
the ElectraGen™, ElectraGen™ XTR and XTi over 2008 
levels, IdaTech sold 300 ElectraGen™ H2 systems to 
ACME Telepower (the direct hydrogen fuelled product 
developed during the year). Deployment of these 
systems is expected to be completed by the end of 
the second quarter of 2010. In addition to these sales, 
there was significant interest in these products 
outside of India.
IdaTech ended the year receiving an order for 108 
ElectraGen™ H2 systems. At the date of this report all 
have been shipped and approximately one third of the  08 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Business 
Review continued
systems have been deployed. These systems 
represent an important step toward profitability, 
making a positive contribution to overheads.
New Product Development
IdaTech believes there have been two main barriers to 
the mass adoption of stationary fuel cells; the cost 
and availability of hydrogen as a fuel (the so called 
hydrogen barrier) and the capital, or first cost of the 
fuel cell systems. IdaTech, through its proprietary 
multi-fuel reforming capability has eliminated the 
hydrogen barrier as its products can use a convenient, 
readily available and inexpensive liquid fuel rather 
than compressed bottled hydrogen gas. Bottled 
hydrogen gas is relatively expensive, difficult to store 
and to transport to site and makes refuelling, 
especially in difficult environments, extremely 
challenging. During 2009, IdaTech conducted 
intensive development of three new fuel cell 
products. The objective of this development was to 
produce products that can compete directly with 
traditional diesel generators and provide the Group 
with attractive margins. The new products will also 
have increased reliability and durability resulting in 
reduced life cycle costs to the customer.
The first product, the ElectraGen™ H2, was completed 
in less than eight months and under budget. 300 of 
these systems were sold and shipped to ACME for 
deployment in India. A variant of this product was also 
produced and 108 systems were sold to an Asian 
customer.
The second product is the next generation of the 
liquid fueled fuel cell systems, the ElectraGen™ ME.  
t will be launched in the second half of 2010 and 
represents the core product supporting the Group’s 
drive to profitable growth. The ElectraGen™ ME’s cost 
base will be significantly less than that of its 
predecessor system. Additionally, the durability of key 
components will increase while reducing its size by 
approximately 30%. The Group believes this product 
can compete directly with diesel generator systems.
Currently, due to product cost, IdaTech believes that it 
only has addressed 1% of the potential 
telecommunications market. However, the Group 
believes the ElectraGen™ ME will expand the 
addressable market to around 1.8 million base 
stations.
The third product, the ElectraGen™ NG, started 
development in late 2008 and continued throughout 
2009. This product will expand IdaTech’s fuel 
capability to include natural gas in its commercial 
products. As previously announced, this programme 
was delayed due to the time taken to develop the 
necessary global supply chain base and to fully test 
components. This latter issue arose as, after compiling 
usage data from the ElectraGen™ H2 systems 
deployed earlier in the year, it became apparent that 
the operational profile of the systems in India meant 
that the systems would cycle on and off many more 
times per day than originally expected. This resulted 
in the need to re-examine and test all components 
and modules to ensure the necessary reliability and 
durability of the system. It is believed that the ability 
to use natural gas as a fuel will open additional 
telecom opportunities and potential adjacent 
applications in the future. Full production of this 
product is expected in 2011.
In each case, IdaTech’s new products systems are 
being developed using a design for manufacturability 
methodology which was established at the end of 
2008 and fully implemented in early 2009. 
Additionally, enhanced design validation testing 
procedures have been introduced. These processes, 
coupled with modifications to the long-term testing 
procedures, significantly increase the level of pre-
production readiness and reliability testing of 
components, sub-assemblies, modules and complete 
systems. These changes are believed also to increase 
the reliability of the end product as well as reduce the 
overall cost of developing, manufacturing and 
servicing them. 09 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2009
The Group’s product cost and performance objectives 
are being met through the following specific initiatives: 
proprietary technological advances; • 
product design simplification; • 
increased use of off the shelf parts; and • 
establishment of a global supply chain, taking • 
advantage of lower cost jurisdictions.
Lean Production
In 2007 IdaTech opened its production plant in 
Tijuana, Mexico. This facility gives the Group a 
flexible, low cost volume manufacturing operation 
without the need for large capital investment. These 
operations were expanded in 2009, with the 
introduction of a gravity fed production line and an 
upgraded test facility. These improvements enabled 
the successful delivery of the ElectraGen™ H2 product 
in the second half of the year, positioning the facility 
for the production of the ElectraGen™ ME in 2010. The 
ability of the facility to ramp up to higher volume was 
demonstrated the last quarter of 2009 when the 300 
ElectraGen™ H2 systems were assembled and 
shipped, following a successful handover from the 
development team. In early 2010, the Tijuana facility 
was awarded ISO 9001 certification. 
In the second half of the year, IdaTech established an 
Indian entity, which is currently focusing on building 
the low cost supply chain outside of North America 
for the ElectraGen™ ME and NG product lines. Once 
fully equipped, following order growth, the Indian 
facility can achieve a production capacity of 
approximately 10,000 units per year.
Focusing on execution
During the year, IdaTech took a number of tough 
decisions in its path to profitability. Among the most 
significant of these was the decision to renegotiate 
the contract with ACME Telepower for the natural gas 
fuelled fuel cell system as the Group chose not to 
pursue a potentially loss making contract. Instead, the 
Group renegotiated the contract into a distribution 
agreement, allowing for improved pricing and more 
time for component verification and testing.
Additionally, IdaTech took the decision to cease 
development on its iGen™ 250W fuel cell product. The 
Group believes the sub-one kilowatt market for its 
fuel cell products is attractive, but is conducting 
research into the specific product attributes, such as 
maximum power output, that are required. 
Additionally, the ElectraGen™ product family offers 
significantly greater near term potential for profitable 
growth. Consequently, the Group has made the 
decision to cancel the development of the iGen™ 
product and focus resources on the ElectraGen™ ME 
in the near term and until the lower power product 
specification has been completed. The current version 
of the iGen™ product will continue to be sold to 
support development of that market. Consequently, 
an impairment to the carrying value of the iGen™ was 
made – see financial overview below.
IdaTech successfully completed the final stage (US$0.9 
million) of a three year, US$3.0 million contract for the 
development of a large scale palladium metal 
membrane for a Japanese group in 2009. 
The Group also successfully completed a development 
programme with the US Department of Energy during 
the year, recognising around US$0.2 million in the year 
and restarted a portion of the programme with the 
US Army for the development of a dual fuel integrated 
system which had been deferred from 2008. Of the 
US$0.5 million deferred at the end of 2008, US$0.3 
million was recorded in 2009 leaving US$0.2 million 
carried into 2010.
Financial overview
Revenue for 2009 was US$6.6 million (2008 US$5.9 
million) of which US$4.5 million was from the sale of 
products, an almost doubling of revenue from the 
2008 level of US$2.4 million, reflecting the increased 
number of systems sold. There was a decrease in the 
average selling price, as 300 of the 445 systems  10 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Business 
Review continued
shipped were the lower priced ElectraGen™ H2 
systems sold to ACME Telepower. 
Revenue from development contracts, derived from 
Government and industrial customers was US$2.0 
million (2008 US$3.4 million) in line with IdaTech’s 
strategy of realigning development resources to next 
generation product development.
A gross loss of US$5.0 million (2008 loss of US$3.3 
million) was recorded. This loss arose as a result of 
increased product sales which were made at a loss, a 
decrease in project related revenue which attracts a 
higher positive margin and the cost of expansion of 
the Tijuana facility in Mexico.
The operating loss for 2009 was US$33.5 million  
(2008 US$21.9 million). This increased loss was 
materially impacted by two factors: 
the write off of the carrying value of the intangible • 
assets relating to the iGen™ product line as 
discussed above of US$4.5 million.
Withdrawal of the Business Energy Tax Credit • 
(“BETC”) by the State of Oregon of US$2.5 million. 
Since 2006, IdaTech has received approximately 
25% of the cost of relevant development expenses 
as a rebate from the State of Oregon. In early 2010, 
the Oregon Department of Energy notified the 
Group that BETC would not be available for 2009, 
despite the assurances that had been made to the 
Group during the course of the year. IdaTech has 
appealed but has taken a cautious approach and 
has prepared these financial statements as if the 
appeal is unsuccessful. 
Allowing for these factors, EBITDA loss stated on a 
comparable basis to 2008 (“normalised EBITDA”) for 
the year US$25.3 million (2008 US$ 16.3 million) and 
the operating loss would be US$26.5 million (2008 US$ 
21.9 million) both in line with management and 
market expectations. 
Research and development costs in the year were 
US$17.7 million (2008 US$7.8 million). Allowing for the 
potential withdrawal of the BETC of US$2.5 million 
and the write off of the intangible assets relating to 
the iGen™ product of US$4.5 million, the costs for 
2009 would have been US$10.7 million. This increase 
over the prior year is due to the full year cost of the 
expansion that occurred during late 2008 and the cost 
of concurrently developing the three next generation 
products; ElectraGen™ H2, ME and NG products. Of 
the $17.7 million total cost, US$7.0 million relate to 
non-cash amortisation costs (2008 US$2.4 million).
Sales, general and administrative expenses were flat 
at US$10.8 million (2008 US$10.8 million). Overall 
administrative expenses fell by US$0.2 million versus 
2008 due to reduced insurance, legal and professional 
fees. Sales related expenses also fell US$0.2 million 
compared to the prior year despite the addition of 
extra sales resources in North America due to lower 
travel, trade shows and advertising expenditures. 
These decreases were offset by the cost of 
establishing the operation in India.
Finance costs increased to US$1.6 million (2008 US$0.2 
million) as the business was funded by its principal 
shareholder, the Investec Group. The loan is unsecured 
and interest is charged at 8% per annum.
The income tax credit increased to US$2.6 million 
(2008 US$0.9 million) due to the write back of the 
deferred tax credit no longer required following the 
write down in the carrying value of the intangible 
assets relating to the iGen™ product line.
Cash flow utilised by operations increased to US$23.1 
million in the year (2008 US$18.1 million) mainly due to 
a planned increase in development costs as recorded 
above. Purchase of tangible assets of US$0.4 million 
was in line with the 2008 capital expenditure levels. 
Three-quarters of this expenditure was invested in 
the Tijuana plant to increase its capacity for 
production and testing. Expenditure on intangible  11 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2009
assets fell US$0.5 million to US$1.3million (2008 US$1.8 
million), reflecting the Group’s focus on cash 
management in the year.
The other principal changes in the balance sheet are 
the decreases in inventory, intangible assets and 
deferred tax and an increase in accounts receivable 
and borrowings.
There was a decrease in the level of inventories at the 
end of 2009 compared to 2008 of US$0.7 million to 
US$2.5 million resulting from a reduction in the level 
of raw materials and work-in-progress. This reduction 
occurred due to a better alignment of sales forecast 
and the purchasing cycle. Finished goods inventory 
remained constant at US$0.2 million. 
Accounts receivable increased by US$0.1 million to 
US$3.9 million. This increase was due to two factors: 
an increase in the trade receivables resulting from the 
higher sales made in the last two months of the year 
of $1.9 million which was largely offset by the fact the 
BETC receivable for 2009 has not been included in the 
financial statements whereas the balance sheet for 
2008 included US$1.9 million. 
The carrying value of intangible assets decreased by 
US$5.7 million to US$18.1 million compared with the 
prior year. This was mainly due to the write off of the 
intangible assets relating to the iGen™ product of 
US$4.5 million, the annual amortisation charge of 
US$2.5 million offset by the part-capitalisation of 
development work in the year relating to the 
ElectraGen™ ME and NG products of US$1.3 million.
During the year, IdaTech drew upon its loan facility 
with the Investec Group, its principal shareholder. 
During 2009, IdaTech drew down $25 million. At the 
end of the year the balance was $32 million. The loan 
is due for repayment on 31 March 2011 – see note 15.
Funding and going concern
These financial statements have been prepared on a 
going concern basis as the Investec Group, IdaTech’s 
main shareholder, has indicated its willingness to fund 
the business. Additional disclosure surrounding the 
going concern and future funding is given in the 
Directors’ Report on page 12.
Current funding is via debt. Although the timing is yet 
to be finalised, the Board believes it would be 
desirable to raise additional equity funding.
Outlook
The Group believes that 2010 will mark a significant 
turning point for IdaTech, driving its product margin 
into positive territory, while bringing its product 
pricing into direct competition with diesel generators. 
Demonstrating the initial step in this change, the first 
108 systems shipped in 2010 will be at a positive 
contribution margin. During the second half of 2010, 
IdaTech plans to release for commercial sale the next 
generation ElectraGen™ ME systems. These are 
expected to be significantly lower cost and to have 
higher performance than the current ElectraGen™ 
XTR and XTi systems. 
Consequently, the Group expects to see a reduction in 
the cash burn rate as the next generation systems 
begin to make a positive gross margin and 
contribution to the operational expenses of the 
business. 
The Board believes IdaTech is well positioned to take 
advantage of the significant market opportunities 
that it sees for its next generation systems and is 
confident of achieving increased profitable sales.
Hal Koyama
Chief Executive Officer
16 March 2010
