 IdaTech plc Annual Report 2010 Business overview 06
Chairman’s statement
2010 was a successful year of 
transition for the Group as the new 
generation of ElectraGen™ products 
were introduced and older generation 
products began to be phased out.  
Of particular significance is that the 
new generation products are profitable 
at the gross margin contribution level 
(before overheads) and can still 
compete with diesel generators on 
price, whereas the older generation 
products were loss making even when 
sold at higher prices. IdaTech believes 
this is a game changing event, and 
this, together with increasing volumes 
will drive the business into sustainable 
cash generation.
An unexpected, yet very exciting opportunity for 
IdaTech, was the purchase from Plug Power Inc. 
(“Plug”), for a total consideration of US$5 million, of 
its off-grid liquid petroleum fueled product line, 
including most of the assets of the business and 
license to all relevant intellectual property. This 
enables IdaTech to develop the off-grid market 
much earlier than anticipated.
IdaTech will continue to release variants of its new 
generation ElectraGen™ product line throughout 
2011. These are designed to meet its customers’ 
specific needs in expanding geographies around 
the world, whilst maximising profit potential.
Financial overview
Revenue for the year was US$4.5 million, with  
a significantly improved gross margin loss of 
US$3.2 million over the prior year. In 2009 revenue 
was US$6.6 million with a gross loss of $5.0 million. 
During 2010 IdaTech did not pursue any 
development projects, concentrating its activities 
on the profitable commercialisation of its products 
which is in line with IdaTech’s Path to Profitability 
strategy as announced last year. This accounted 
for the decrease in revenue.
The operating loss before tax fell significantly to 
US$23.5 million from US$33.5 million in 2009. 
US$1.8 million of this decrease was due to the 
improved gross margin loss, US$2.7 million from 
reduced operating overheads and US$4.5 million 
was as a result of the decision in 2009 to cancel 
the development of the 250W fuel cell system 
which resulted in an accelerated write down of 
intangibles in the prior year.
Funding
As in previous years, IdaTech’s majority shareholder, 
the Investec Group, has indicated its current 
intention to ensure that the Group is in a position to 
meet its debts as and when they fall due.
The loan note funding provided by Investec 
together with further funding required during the 
current year, will be repayable on 31 March 2012. 
The Directors remain active in considering the 
options available to refinance these amounts 
ahead of the repayment date.
After due consideration, the Directors have 
concluded it is appropriate to continue to prepare 
the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Further details are provided in the Directors’ Report 
on page 11.
People
2010 was the first full year of execution of IdaTech’s 
Path to Profitability strategy to achieve sustainable 
cash generation. This has required a great deal of 
hard work, commitment and tenacity from its 
employees, the result of which is a portfolio of truly 
commercial profitable products.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
everyone at IdaTech for their contribution during 
the year.
Sir John Jennings
Chairman
22 March 2011
Sir John Jennings
Chairman
