 BUILDING ON A
SOUND PLATFORM...
Chief Executive’s review
Market trends
It is estimated that in 2007 the UK
television shopping market generated sales
of over £950 million, with annual growth of
between 5% and 7%. Our market share is
in excess of 10%.
Growth in the market is being driven by:
● Growth in access to digital
television
As the analogue to digital switchover
occurs, all viewers must adopt
Freeview, satellite or cable television,
which will automatically give them
access to Ideal World and, if they do
so via Sky, to our other channels.
● Growth in internet sales
The number of UK households with a
broadband connection continues to
grow rapidly, and is approaching 
16 million (source: IMRG). UK Online
sales are estimated to have exceeded
£46 billion in 2007, an increase of more
than 50% in the year. As online usage
grows, the profile of the online population
is evolving to more closely match that of
our existing customer base.
● Growth in craft market
We estimate that the UK craft market is
worth in excess of £2 billion per year at
retail sales value. This market is very
fragmented, and we estimate that we
are amongst the top 4 players in the
market, after only 5 years of operation.
Operational review
With the move onto new Freeview and 
Virgin contracts, and the introduction of 
new systems, 2007 was a year in which 
we put in place the foundations to underpin
our future growth. The benefits of this 
began to be realised in the second half 
of the year, when we delivered like-for-like
sales growth in excess of 16%. This was
despite the toughening of the underlying 
retail market, and reflects both underlying
productivity improvements and a strong
promotional focus. Our like-for-like sales
growth exceeded 14% for the full year, with
growth in all our key categories. 
During the year we have continued our
strategy of focusing on the following 
key elements:
● Ideal World
● Create and Craft
● Superstore
● Infrastructure
Ideal World
At the start of 2007 we successfully
launched the Ideal World channel 
onto the Telewest cable base (which,
together with the former NTL cable
business, is now branded Virgin Media).
This added around 1.3 million new Virgin
Media households which can receive 
our channel 24 hours a day. In addition,
according to figures produced by Ofcom,
through the first nine months of 2007 
1.6 million additional households gained
access to Freeview, and hence to our main
channel, Ideal World. This means that today
we broadcast into over 21.5 million homes,
representing 86% of all UK households.
We have focused on three key sales tools:
driving underlying productivity, better use of
promotions, and continuing our programme
of sourcing and developing new ranges.
Productivity has been driven by the use 
of our improved IT systems which give us
greater analytical ability. This data enables
us to actively manage our schedules,
thereby maximising sales productivity and
increasing our margins. For example, with 
the recent trends in the retail jewellery
market, coupled with the increase in gold
prices, we have actively reduced the
airtime given to jewellery, reducing its 
sales and gross margin, but enhancing
sales and margin overall.
Sales by category
% sales
growth
Leisure 80%
Craft 14%
Home 10%
Health & Beauty 7%
Fashion 6%
Jewellery (11%)
In several of our categories, sales and 
margin benefited from our continuing focus
on developing our own product brands.
These include; “Simply Yoghurt” yoghurt
making kits, the “Skin Naturally” skincare
range, and “Flex & Soft” comfort and 
fashion footwear.
10
“We are perfectly placed to exploit the integration
of broadcast and online media”
Andrew Fryatt  MA
Chief Executive Officer
75705 PRELIM  1/4/08  18:46  Page 10 Ideal Shopping Annual Report 07
11
2007 achievements
380,000 new customers
Ideal’s market share increasing
Growth across all categories except jewellery (airtime
reduced)
Growth led by leisure and craft
0.86% pts margin increase
Create & Craft Club membership increased significantly
– now over 23,000
Superstore delivered £0.7m bottom line (2006: £0.2m)
New IT systems successfully implemented in June
Our promotional programme has been highly
effective, primarily utilising multibuy offers and
free or discounted postage offerings. Despite
these offers, we are pleased that margins
have still increased.
During 2007 we brought almost 5,000 new
products to air, continually refreshing our 
on-air offer.
This combination of driving existing ranges,
90 new products each week, and
compelling promotional offers, has combined
to achieve outstanding sales results in 
the second half of the year and achieve
record levels of new customer acquisition.
380,000 new customers were added in
2007, with the rate of acquisition increasing
steadily through to the end of the year.
75705 PRELIM  1/4/08  19:09  Page 11 Chief Executive’s review
For the year ended 30 December 2007
Create and Craft
Our second channel, Create and Craft, has
a very strong brand presence in the UK
craft market, which is worth in excess of 
£2 billion per year. This market is very
fragmented, and we are in the top four 
craft retailers in the UK.
The Create and Craft brand addresses 
the needs of regular and dedicated
crafters, who prefer to buy from retailers
that really understand their needs, and
who can provide inspiration for their
crafting projects.
Our craft offer includes live shows on Ideal
World, pre-recorded shows on the “Create
and Craft” channel (on Sky), a standalone
retail website, a subscription-based craft
club, with over 23,000 members, and a
range of “Create and Craft” branded
products sold on air and wholesaled 
to independent craft retailers.
The growth in the Create and Craft Club,
from just over 10,000 members at the 
start of 2007, has been a key driver of 
our craft sales. We plan to grow this
substantially in 2008. 
Our craft model combines the benefits of
a strong brand and a truly multichannel
proposition, and the success of this
approach suggests that it would be
applicable to other categories in the future. 
Superstore
The acquisition of Superstore in 2006 was
designed to rapidly enhance our direct
sourcing capability, and in 2007 we put in
place the additional resources in China to
support this. We now have 15 employees,
who seek out products on our behalf and
work “hands on” to ensure that strict quality
controls are always met. Initially, the main
category focus has been on craft products,
but we are beginning to source for other
categories too. The direct sourcing model
does increase the amount of stock that 
we purchase on firm sale (as opposed to
our more traditional ‘sale or return basis’), but
it remains a single digit percentage of our
business, and the small increase in stock is
significantly outweighed by the enhanced
margins and better quality assurance.
In May 2007, Superstore began 
delivering craft ranges into Wilkinson. 
This complements our supply of craft
products to Asda, which began in 2006.
Whilst this national account business
supports the volumes of our internal craft
purchasing, the strategic benefits of the
Superstore business remain the margin
enhancement from direct sourcing and 
the increased reach of the “Create and
Craft” brand.
Infrastructure
During the first half of the year, we
completed the improvement and upgrade
of our IT systems (ISIS) in order to handle
significantly higher volumes in the business.
This has been an important and long-term
project and our new platform has greater
data storage capacity and performance
capability. We have also upgraded our
automated call centre facility (IVR), to offer
“upsells” to customers, and allow them 
to trace the status of their order. Further
enhancement is planned for 2008.
With the rapid growth of new business,
2008 is the year in which we must
determine the longer term solution to 
our warehousing requirement. We have
applied for planning permission to extend
our current warehouse facilities, but are
continuing to review this opportunity
against other warehousing solutions in 
the first half of 2008.
New opportunities
As previously announced, we began
discussions with British Telecommunications
Plc last year, to become the flagship TV
shopping channel on BT Vision. We are
pleased to report that a formal agreement
was signed in January 2008 and we
expect to launch onto this new exciting
IPTV platform with a video on demand 
offer in quarter 3 2008.
We believe that the online growth opportunity
may even exceed the potential from TV
shopping, and we are committed to realising
this. In January 2008, we appointed a new
Head of eCommerce, and have commenced
a programme to overhaul our websites by
the middle of this year. Already more than
20% of our sales are taken online, and we
anticipate that our online sales will approach
30% of the mix by the end of this year.
In November 2007, we opened an 
“Ideal World” outlet store in Peterborough,
enabling us to clear end of line stocks
above cost prices. 
12
12
75705 PRELIM  31/3/08  12:23  Page 12 Future prospects
Having put the foundations in place in
2007, we anticipate continued growth 
in 2008. On Ideal World, we will continue
to drive the introduction of own brands 
and directly sourced products, so as to
drive margins and increase loyalty, and we
will test new categories of products and
services that we believe are relevant to 
our customers. Our Create and Craft 
brand will continue to benefit from our truly
multichannel approach, with increased
airtime and online focus, and growth in
Club membership.
In Superstore, the main focus is on
doubling the volume of directly sourced
merchandise for Ideal, with commensurate
margin benefits. In third party sales, we 
are focused on driving the efficient use of
working capital in supporting our key
accounts, whilst we will roll out our Create
and Craft branded offer to independent 
craft stockists.
In terms of infrastructure, we continue 
to develop both our IT and telephony
systems. By the end of 2008 we plan to
repatriate our customer service centre 
from India, and utilise both IVR and web 
to enhance our ordering and customer
service proposition.
“Convergence” of digital technologies has
been referenced in the media for the last
few years, but 2008 looks as if it will be 
the first year that it will reach some critical
mass. We are perfectly placed to exploit
the integration of broadcast and online
media, and our launch onto the BT Vision
platform later this year is a key step in our
evolution as a digital retailer.
The operational gearing of the business
means that growing our sales and margin
produces a disproportionate benefit to profit,
and with our significant investments in our
infrastructure now complete, we expect to
drive up net margins in 2008.
Andrew Fryatt, MA
Chief Executive Officer
4 March 2008
13
75705 PRELIM  2/4/08  09:42  Page 13
Ideal Shopping Annual Report 07
