 02 Ideal Shopping Direct Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Job: 12177_Ideal_Shop_AR_FRT Proof: 05  Proof Read by:
Operator: gem Date: April 28, 2009 3:44 PM 
Server: studio 1 Set-up: Keith First Read/Revisions
Overview
Paul Wright Chairman
“2008/2009 has seen significant change within Ideal, and 
a complete restructuring of the Board and Senior 
Management team. The business has quickly stabilised, 
with strong and experienced managers joining the 
Company, and we have a real depth of home shopping 
knowledge.” 
“We remain a business that is strategically 
well placed to take advantage of market 
trends towards a genuine multi-channel 
business in TV shopping and  
e-commerce.”
Chairman’s Statement
Against a backdrop of difficult trading 
conditions and poor decisions by the previous 
management, I am deeply disappointed to 
report that the financial results for 2008 show  
a record loss of £13.2m and a sales decline of 
2.0%. As previously anticipated in the 23 March 
trading update, excluding exceptional charges 
of £9.2m the trading loss was £4.0m.  
The exceptional costs include many non-cash 
provisions that write down the value of our 
balance sheet, together with a number of 
restructuring costs. These charges have been 
incurred to put us in a clearer position from 
which to return the Company to profitability.
Given these results the Board is not in a position to recommend 
payment of a final dividend.
On 3 February 2009, the Board was restructured and I returned 
to the Company as Non-executive Chairman. Valerie Kaye  
also joined the Board as a Non-executive Director. Together  
we have considerable experience and a deep knowledge and 
understanding of the business and opportunities for future 
growth. We are excited at the prospect of working with  
Mike Hancox our new Chief Executive, who joined the Board on  
3 November 2008, Ian Jebson who joined the Board as Finance 
Director on 1 March 2009, and the rest of the management 
team in restoring the business to growth and profitability.  
David Williams, Terry Donovan and Susan Ellis all stepped down 
from the Board on 3 February 2009. Pam Aujla stepped down 
from the Board on 23 March 2009. 
12177_Ideal_Shop_AR_FRT.indd   2 28/4/09   15:53:50 03 Ideal Shopping Direct Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Job: 12177_Ideal_Shop_AR_FRT Proof: 05  Proof Read by:
Operator: gem Date: April 28, 2009 3:54 PM 
Server: studio 1 Set-up: Keith First Read/Revisions
Overview
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I would like to thank 
colleagues for their hard work during 2008. The financial 
performance does not reflect the effort and commitment that 
many people have put into the business and if we can remain 
focused on the strategy of the new management team, I am 
confident of an improvement in performance.
Strategy
To grow the business profitably, we will refocus on the business 
fundamentals that made it successful. The Board is focused  
on increasing customer loyalty, improving customer service, 
extending the diversity of product whilst avoiding stock risk,  
and demonstrating these products across a range of price 
points within a convenient and entertaining shopping 
environment. Controls are being significantly improved with a 
focus on cash management. We will be driving our existing TV 
shopping audience towards multi-channel retailing using our 
websites and other established marketing tools including 
e-commerce, whilst at the same time reinforcing our brand 
values of family, friendship and fun. 
Tom Tom
Tom Tom is arguably the best known 
brand of satellite navigation devices. Our 
range includes a number of models from 
the simple Tom Tom One which can get 
you from A to B with ease to the top 
specification models such as the Tom Tom 
Go940 Live that can update you on the 
cheapest petrol prices.
Garden products
Our popular range of fruit, vegetables 
and flowers is being expanded in 2009 
to increase the variety of products on 
offer to our customers. The direct 
dispatch model for these products is 
also in line with our strategy to reduce 
stock risk.
Outlook
In a very tough retail environment, 2009 has begun with sales 
slightly ahead of our expectations. Importantly, we continue to 
acquire a substantial number of new customers and we are 
introducing commercial and best practice home shopping 
initiatives during the first half of 2009, which will have a 
significant and I believe positive impact on the business.  
The new management has hit the ground running and is  
already making a strong contribution to trading performance. 
With this in mind I am cautiously optimistic that we can return 
the business to profitability. 
Paul Wright
Chairman
16 April 2009
12177_Ideal_Shop_AR_FRT.indd   3 29/4/09   14:36:08
