 04 Ideal Shopping Direct Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman’s Statement
The retail environment during 2009 was challenging and in 
addition the new Board had many legacy issues to address. 
Given that background, I am delighted to announce that Ideal 
Shopping Direct has completed its turnaround plan. After 
spending the first half of 2009 addressing infrastructure issues 
that were negatively impacting the customer experience, we 
have delivered an excellent performance in the second half year 
with sales growth of 18.5% over the same period in the previous 
year. This performance has delivered a profit before tax and  
non underlying items of £1.3 million for the Financial Year 2009 
compared to a loss before tax and non underlying items of 
£0.95 million for the half year to June 2009 and a substantial 
improvement on the loss before tax and non underlying items  
of £4.0 million reported for the Financial Year 2008.
We further strengthened the Board when on 1 July 2009 
Graham Cole joined as a Non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. Graham brings with him a wealth of 
experience gained from working with AIM listed businesses. Ian 
Jebson joined on 1 March 2009 as Finance Director; Val Kaye 
and I joined on 3 February 2009 as Non-executive Director and 
Non-executive Chairman respectively. I believe we now have  
a settled and strong Board who are committed to the future 
strategy of the business and to rebuilding shareholder value.
The Board would like to thank all their colleagues across the 
business for their contributions during 2009. We have a loyal 
and dedicated workforce who have worked skilfully to restore 
profitability and I am now confident that performance will 
continue to improve during 2010.
Strategy
As outlined in our 2008 Annual Report, following the 
establishment of a completely new Board, we undertook  
a strategic review and refocused the business on the 
fundamentals that had originally made it successful, namely 
customer loyalty, customer service, diversity of product across  
a range of price points within a convenient and entertaining 
shopping environment. This task is now largely complete.  
In addition, we decided to diversify from being a TV centric 
shopping business to one with a genuine multi-channel offering, 
exploiting our core values and strengths. In particular, we 
recognise the new opportunities offered to us via e-commerce 
where we can, and are, leveraging our TV shopping expertise 
and in-depth product knowledge. We also believe a number of 
specific complementary niche product categories exist, which 
“I am delighted that  
Ideal Shopping Direct has 
completed its turnaround  
plan. I remain optimistic that 
we will continue to improve  
the performance of the 
Company during 2010.”
Paul Wright Chairman
+9.2%
Sales increased by 9.2% to £103.3 million  
(2008: £94.7 million) 05 Ideal Shopping Direct Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Overview
can offer attractive margins and little aggressive competition, 
where we can build and defend a significant franchise, as  
has already been successfully demonstrated by our profitable 
craft category.
In the pursuit of this strategy, in January 2010, we acquired  
the home shopping gardening business, Lead The Good Life 
(LTGL). This transaction directly supports our strategy of 
continuing to introduce new branded products that will  
enhance earnings. The integration of LTGL is progressing  
well and to plan.
Across the Company we have improved financial controls, 
managed overheads and generated a positive cash flow of  
£5.0 million during the year. We continue to develop our 
credentials as a strong multi-channel business and selective 
investments in our website has seen growth in our web traffic 
and sales.
Outlook
Our key focus now is to drive profitability towards those levels 
we achieved historically. I remain optimistic that we will continue 
to improve the performance of the Company during 2010. The 
Board is committed and motivated to achieving its goal of 
rebuilding shareholder value. Our strategy for growth is proving 
successful and we are preserving our cash to finance further 
growth of the business through organic development as well  
as through acquisitions. As a consequence, the Board is not 
recommending a final dividend.
Current trading
The current year has started well and sales for the first 10 weeks 
are 17.5% ahead of 2009; with like for like sales 8.8% ahead of 
2009 and Lead The Good Life sales 54.1% ahead of 2009.
Paul Wright
Chairman
23 March 2010
