 2 IDOX plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
For the year ended 31 October 2008
I am pleased to report that we have made 
decisive progress in our aim to become a 
leading supplier of high-quality software 
and services to the public sector. Full-year 
revenues increased 65% to £34.0m, with 
profitability increasing even more strongly, 
up 267% to £6.6m.
 
Our increase in profitability resulted 
from good like-for-like organic growth 
in our main software business and from 
cost savings achieved by integrating the 
software activities of IDOX, CAPS Solutions 
and Plantech into a single unit. We expect 
this integration to deliver additional 
operational benefits and savings in the 
new financial year. 
Cash flow was strong, particularly in the 
first half of the year when we collected 
annual maintenance revenues, and we 
ended the year with net cash of £1.0m 
after acquisition costs and our first 
payments of corporation tax. We are 
proposing to increase our dividend to 
0.115p pence per share (2007: 0.1p). 
Despite the current economic conditions, 
demand in our core local government 
market remains robust. With more than 
330 local authorities using IDOX software, 
we are the leader in the supply of land and 
property solutions and a growing provider 
of software to revenues and benefits 
departments. 
Building on this market-leading position 
in land and property services, we have 
a growing capability to cross sell and to 
provide web-based public access services 
or portals across the entire range of local 
authority activities and potentially into the 
wider public sector as well. This is also true 
of our proprietary document management 
software.
Although our smallest business, consulting 
and content-based solutions, experienced 
a softening in revenues in the second 
half of the year, our recruitment business 
sustained the improvement seen in the 
first half of the year. 
We completed our management team by 
welcoming William Edmondson as our 
new Chief Financial Officer at the end 
of September 2008. Will was previously 
Finance Director for the Europe, Middle-
East, India & Africa Region of Autodesk 
Inc. (NASDAQ: ADSK), which experienced 
rapid growth in revenues during his tenure 
to $1bn and where he controlled a budget 
of $250m, in addition to integrating a 
number of acquisitions.
Having successfully integrated Plantech, 
which was acquired in February 2008, we 
C h a i r m a n ’ s	S t a t e m e n t
Full-year revenues 
increased 65% 
to £34.0m, with 
profitability increasing 
even more strongly, 
up 267% to £6.6m 3 IDOX plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
continue to look for suitable opportunities 
to acquire complementary businesses that 
will enable us to gain market share in the 
public sector, improve cross-selling and cut 
costs where necessary. 
IDOX ended its 2008 financial year as a 
larger and demonstrably more successful 
company and I would like to thank all of 
those who have worked so hard to make it 
possible.  
We have begun the new financial year 
well, with sales visibility ahead of 2008, 
a leading position in our core market, 
an excellent suite of products, strong 
recurring revenues and a healthy balance 
sheet. This is a good starting position from 
which to face a very challenging year for 
the UK economy. 
M a r t i n	B r o o k s
Chairman
22 January 2009
London 
Orkney Isles 
IDOX group software 
customer
Northern Ireland
Planning Service
Shetland Isles 
Isles of Scilly 
see 
inset
I D O X	G R O u P	u k	l O C a l	a u t h O R I t y	C u S t O M E R S
