 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2
For the year ended 31 October 2010
Chairman’s Statement
Idox is a specialist high end provider of 
document management, case management, 
workflow systems, content and related 
web-based portals. These skills have been 
successfully applied to the local government 
domain and are increasingly being developed on 
a managed or shared service partnership basis 
with groups of councils to save costs and gain 
efficiency.  The Group is now positioned to apply 
these skills to wider market sectors. 
By the end of 2010, the Group served more than 
90% of UK local authorities, with 62% recurring 
revenues (2009: 55%) and the Group’s land & 
property software solutions business comprises 
over 60% of installed UK local government 
planning solutions. 
The Group was also bolstered through the 
acquisition and integration of GRANTfinder, 
Strand Electoral Management Services and 
the Local Authority Modernisation Programme 
(LAMP) long-term managed services contracts 
with 11 local authorities. These acquisitions 
enabled the Group to expand into additional 
managed service agreements, election 
management software and further grants 
content.  The acquisition of GRANTfinder 
brings the critical mass required to make the 
Solutions segment a significant profit generator 
in forthcoming periods. 
The acquisition of j4b Software & Publishing 
Limited in 2009 had already added an 
international dimension to our business in 
Holland and in late 2010 Idox won its first 
contract in Spain. 
The post financial year-end acquisition of 
McLaren Software, a Glasgow based company 
with a presence in Germany and Houston, 
Texas, marks a step in the Group’s strategy to 
provide its document management services to 
broader public and private markets in the UK 
and internationally. The acquisition broadens 
the Group’s footprint into McLaren’s industrial 
markets in pharmaceuticals and oil & gas.
The acquisition will also build on the Group’s 
document management systems, workflow and 
related technology and expertise to expand a 
development centre of excellence in Scotland 
and offer this expertise to other markets where 
Idox can become a technology and market 
leader.
The Group will continue to identify opportunities 
to diversify into new geographies and new 
markets and aims through organic growth, 
acquisition and expansion outside the UK and 
public sector to grow its revenue and profits. 
The Board also continues to buy-back shares to 
fund share option incentives whilst pursuing its 
objective of promoting double-digit normalised 
EPS growth.
2010 highlights and markets
The publication of the government’s CSR in 
October 2010 has brought clarity to both central 
and local government spending plans. As a 
result the Board is confident that there will be 
no major adverse impact on software & services 
expenditure at local government level where it 
supports efficiencies in areas like planning. 
Local government has become increasingly 
outcomes driven, focused on return on 
investment and improvements in effectiveness 
and the maintenance of services to the 
community. Since the CSR was announced, 
independent market research company Kable 
has re-iterated its forecast of modest growth 
in the local government software and services 
market for the next three years.
In 2010 the Group passed a further milestone 
in its development as it diversified beyond its 
traditional local government client base into 
wider market sectors.
EBITDA rose 16% despite a 3% fall in revenues, 
which reflected in part the successful wind down 
of the large Scottish government planning portal 
project in the previous financial year.  Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
For the year ended 31 October 2010
By the end of 2010, the 
Group served more 
than 90% of UK local 
authorities, with 62% 
recurring revenues 
(2009: 55%)
Operating costs were reduced during the 
year, even after the acquisitions of LAMP , 
Strand Electoral Management Services 
and GRANTfinder.  On a like-for-like basis, 
excluding acquisitions, overheads were £1.5m 
or 9% lower, as a result of tight cost controls 
and continued productivity and efficiency gains.  
In line with its previously announced policy of 
accelerating dividend increases, the Board 
proposes a significant rise in its final dividend to 
0.35p per share.
Finally, I would like to thank, on behalf of 
the Board, all our staff for their skills and 
dedication as Idox has transformed into a 
significant provider of profits with a market 
leading position over the last three years, 
most of it during a time of great economic 
uncertainty.  Our thanks are also extended to 
our shareholders who have been so supportive 
over this period.
Martin Brooks
Chairman
25 January 2011
Chairman’s Statement cont’d
