 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4
For the year ended 31 October 2011
Chairman’s Statement
The 12 months to 31 October 2011 have been 
a transformative year for Idox. The acquisition 
of McLaren Software extended the Group’s 
core technology skills into international highly 
regulated asset intensive industries, providing 
access to many higher growth markets outside 
the UK and Europe. 
The post year-end acquisition of CTSpace 
has further established the Group as a 
significant vendor in the Engineering Document 
Management and Control market and with 
McLaren has established a second major market 
focus for the Group.
Idox’s diversification into new verticals in the 
private sector maintains the Group’s emphasis 
on generating high levels of recurring revenues 
and on building long-lasting supportive 
relationships with customers. At the same time it 
lowers the Group’s reliance on revenue from the 
public sector in the UK and provides access to 
global markets. 
Idox remains a significant provider of complex 
large scale document management and related 
systems to UK local government. The Group 
is now the clear UK market leader in Land and 
Property software solutions providing some 63% 
of all UK planning systems. 
The Public Sector software business accounted 
for 68% of Group revenues (2010: 77%). During 
the period, the Group has further expanded 
the business into full service provision covering 
software, consulting, managed services, full 
off-premise hosting, and integrated cloud-based 
services. As a result, the proportion of longer-
term shared and managed service contracts as 
part of the Group’s revenue mix has generated a 
greater level of recurring revenues. 
The development of the Group both in its 
markets and geographic diversity, has been 
accompanied by an evolution in its management 
structure and its capability to develop business 
and successfully integrate acquisitions. 
The Group moved to a divisional business 
structure, supported by Group functions such 
as technology and finance, a process that 
was completed by the internal appointment of 
Andrew Riley as managing director of Idox’s 
Public Sector software business. 
2011 Highlights and Markets
As the Company predicted last year the local 
government settlement resulting from the 2010 
Comprehensive spending review has led to 
renewed growth, innovation and stability in our 
traditional core local authority market where we 
report a 15% uplift in sales, increasingly tilting 
towards long-term managed service agreements 
rather than outright one off software sales. 
Our experience therefore is in line with the 
forecasts of independent market research 
company Kable of modest growth in the local 
government software & services market for the 
next three years
Group revenues grew by 23% to £38.6m (2010: 
£31.3m) and EBITDA rose by 33% to £11.6 m 
(2010: £8.7m) 
Operating costs increased by 27% to £21.9m 
(2010: £17.3M) as a result of the full year impact 
of acquisitions made in the previous and current 
financial years. On a like-for-like basis overheads 
were 1% higher.
Dividend
Following a large rise in the interim dividend 
of 0.24p, the Board proposes a further final 
dividend of 0.36p, subject to shareholder 
approval, making a total for the year of 0.6p, a 
33% increase over 2010.
This year, in addition to thanking our senior 
management and staff for driving this business 
forward in terms of capability and profitability, I 
would like to thank also on behalf of the Board 
our shareholders in particular, who have been 
very supportive in our journey as growing AIM 
listed company, as well as our able professional 
advisers. All have played a part in helping 
Idox progress well against the headwinds of 
extraordinary uncertainty in the wider economic 
world and resulted in a year on year uplift in our 
share price of 82%. 
Martin Brooks
Chairman
26 January 2012 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
For the year ended 31 October 2011
Idox’s diversification 
into new verticals in the 
private sector maintains 
the Group’s emphasis
Chairman’s Statement
