 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1
For the year ended 31 October 2011
Revenues up 23% to £38.6m  > (2010: £31.3m); strong acquisition performance 
and successful management of core revenues 
EBITDA rose by 33% to £11.6m  > (2010: £8.7m) 
Adjusted pre-tax profit* up 36% to £10.9m  > (2010: £8.0m) 
Profit before tax £5.6m  > (2010: £4.9m) after a higher non-cash amortisation 
charge related to  acquisitions made and a higher non-cash share option 
charge 
Adjusted EPS* increased 41% to 2.47p  > (2010: 1.75p), Basic EPS 1.31p (2010: 1.07p)
Final proposed dividend 0.36p  > (2010: 0.35p), total for year 0.60p (2010: 0.45p), 
33% increase
£2.4m net debt at period end  > (2010: £0.9m net debt) after funding £4.3m of 
acquisitions
Established market leading position in the Engineering Document  >
Management and Control market with the acquisitions of McLaren Software 
and, post year-end, CTSpace
Financial and Operational Highlights
* Adjusted pre-tax profit & EPS excludes amortisation, exceptional restructuring and corporate finance charges and share option costs. Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2
For the year ended 31 October 2011
Idox plc at a Glance
employee productivity and increased 
responsiveness to public service 
demands.
 
Of significance during 2011 was 
the ability of Idox, via its extensive 
integrated suites of software, to meet 
public sector demands to drive down 
costs through supplier consolidation, 
providing alternative and more efficient 
means of delivering software and 
by applying an increased focus on 
the outcomes and ROI delivered to 
customers by the solutions deployed.
 
Idox continues to benefit from the 
increasing demand for outsourced 
and managed services by working 
in partnership with its local authority 
clients. Customers are increasingly 
recognising the business benefits 
delivered by Idox Managed Service 
portfolio which flexibly combines 
the extensive market and technical 
expertise of our staff with a leading 
Public Sector Software
The Public Sector Software Division is 
a major supplier of software solutions 
and managed services to the public 
sector and is the leading applications 
provider to local government for core 
functions relating to land, people 
and property. Over 90% of UK local 
authorities are customers.  Idox is 
committed to providing public-sector 
organisations with solutions which 
deliver real efficiency savings benefits 
whilst transforming their ability to 
access and manage information & 
knowledge, documents & content, 
business processes & workflow as 
well as connecting directly with the 
citizen via the web.
 
From standalone solutions for 
individual business functions through 
to integrated corporate solutions, 
the Company’s market leading 
software solution portfolio delivers 
improved data quality, stream-lined 
information-sharing, enhanced 
hosted service capability enabling 
Idox to manage customer solutions by 
hosted, remote or on-site managed 
services in the combination which best 
fits customers’ requirements.
 
The acquisition of LalPac Ltd, 
completed in the second half of the 
year, is an important addition for Idox, 
enabling it to become the market 
leader in the field of local authority 
licensing with an extended range 
of products specialising in vehicle 
licensing as well as premises licensing.
 
Idox plc is a supplier of software solutions and 
services to the UK public sector and increasingly 
to highly regulated asset intensive industries 
around the world in the wider corporate sector. Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
TFPL is a global market leader in 
recruitment, training and consulting 
for the knowledge, intelligence and 
information industries.  We work right 
across the private, public, and third 
sectors.
 
TFPL’s services include:
Executive Search >
Contingency recruitment >
Contract and Temporary  >
recruitment
Interim management >
Managed Services >
Recruitment advertising >
Learning and Consulting. >
 
TFPL are experts in the following 
specialisms:
Knowledge & Information  >
Management
Insight & Intelligence >
Publishing & Content Provision >
Records Management >
Document Management >
Risk & Compliance. >
The Idox Information Solutions Division 
provides information management, 
web development, online publishing 
and training services, with leading 
products such as GRANTfinder, the 
Information Service, and Open 4 
Funding.
 
It specialises in the design and 
development of online systems to 
support economic development 
and encompasses editorial teams 
who are expert in researching and 
structuring web content. This includes 
major platform developments for UK 
government clients, including the 
voluntary sector finance portal Funding 
Central.  The division has pioneered 
the development of innovation and 
knowledge transfer portals across 
Europe, working with the European 
Commission, and national and 
regional governments in Ireland and 
the UK.
 
Recruitment
Information Solutions
With offices in Wilmslow, Glasgow, 
Hengelo in the Netherlands and now 
Brussels, the Division is building 
its reputation as Europe’s leading 
publisher of grants and policy 
information services. Its recent 
acquisition of the online compliance 
training company Interactive Dialogues 
in Brussels has further strengthened 
its aspirations in the field of learning 
and training, knowledge, information, 
library, records management and 
information architecture. In addition 
we support clients with the design, 
deployment and roll-out of solutions 
using SharePoint on an application 
and enterprise level.
Engineering Information Management
The Idox Engineering Information 
Management Division is a leading 
supplier of engineering document 
management and control solutions to 
asset intensive industry sectors.
Operating under the McLaren 
Software brand the division 
supplies solutions  to leading 
international oil & gas, energy & 
utilities, manufacturing, life sciences, 
transportation and natural resources 
companies.  Both owner operators 
and EPCs (Engineering Procurement 
& Construction Companies) use 
McLaren solutions to help design, 
build and operate safe, efficient and 
compliant plants and facilities.   
Highlights for the division in 
2011 included major LNG (Liquid 
Natural Gas) Project awards and 
an agreement with IBM Global 
Services in Australia.   Other notable 
successes included ArcelorMittal, the 
world’s largest integrated steel and 
mining company, and Holcim, now 
celebrating its centenary as one of the 
world’s leading suppliers of cement 
and aggregates.  
Revenues grew over 27% in 2011 
during the division’s first year of 
operation.  With the merger of the 
recently acquired CTSpace under 
the McLaren brand the division 
consolidates its market position with 
cloud based solutions and extended 
geographic reach.
