 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2012 04
For the year ended 31 October 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Idox has delivered an outstanding performance in 
this financial year. We have not only consolidated our 
position as the market leading Land and Property 
software specialist in the UK Public Sector software local 
government market, but we have also now established 
a strong foothold in the global Engineering Information 
Management market. 
We have enjoyed further transformation in 2012 and a 
greater leap in profitability, driven not only by our continuing 
acquisition programme, but also by a very encouraging 
uplift in organic growth in both our major software divisions. 
Five acquisitions were made in the financial year; CT Space 
Group, Interactive Dialogues, Opt2Vote, Currency Connect 
and FMx. All are performing well and as a result we have 
many new Idox employees in the UK and around the world 
to welcome to our growing organisation. This acquisition 
programme has been met from the high cash conversion 
generated from operating activities, together with a flexible 
debt facility, which is maintained well within a prudent 
multiple of earnings.
As always, it is our senior management and all our 
employees who drive this business forward in terms 
of capability and profitability. We are also privileged to 
have the support and engagement of many of our key 
shareholders on our journey as a growing AIM listed 
company, as well as able professional advisers. All have 
played a part in helping Idox progress well against the 
continuing headwinds of great uncertainty in the wider 
economic world. 
Looking to the future, we have sought to diversify our 
core software businesses, which are largely driven off a 
common technology base, as well as achieving a greater 
geographical spread. We have also sought to achieve a 
degree of parity in revenues between our Public Sector 
business and our private sector Engineering Information 
Management (EIM) business and between the UK and the 
rest of the world. 
Therefore it is pleasing to report that in this financial year 
we show 31% of Group revenues coming from the EIM 
division (2011:12%) and 31% coming from outside the 
UK (2011: 12%) with a particular focus on non-European 
markets such as the USA, our largest market outside the 
UK, Australia and the BRIC countries which, together, 
provided 69% of this international total. 
As our Company grows, the board has developed its 
thinking on governance and risk management. We 
are determined to protect our small company heritage 
of rigorous attention to detail, cash and cost control, 
combined with speedy execution, while recognising that 
new scale and opportunities around the world bring new 
challenges. Such potential issues include anticipating 
technology shifts, ensuring revenue recognition policies 
remain appropriate as business expands, multiple overseas 
jurisdictions and currencies, different national cultures, as 
well as more complex product lines and management skills. 
These all require more planning and oversight by the board 
acting independently, as well as by senior management. 
In turn this also requires the composition and skill base 
of the board to be progressively refreshed and as part of 
this process, we were particularly pleased to welcome 
Professor Dame Wendy Hall FRS as an additional Non-
Executive Director in October.
In line with our progressive dividend policy, the Board 
proposes a final dividend of 0.40p, subject to shareholder 
approval, making a total for the year of 0.675p, a 13% 
increase over 2011.
The new financial year has started well, building on our high 
recurring revenues and strong qualified sales pipeline and 
we look forward to another year of further development and 
growth at Idox.
Martin Brooks
Chairman
17 January 2013 05 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2012
the Board  
proposes a final 
dividend of 0.40p
