 06 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2012
This year we have built on the improvements we have made 
in previous years and laid the foundations for further growth 
and prosperity of the business.
To achieve this we continue to evolve our internal 
processes, develop further our product strategies, invest 
in new graduates, encourage innovation in all parts of the 
organisation from product to back office operations and 
importantly, focus on delivering improved customer care. 
These continued efforts have delivered this year’s growth 
and we are committed to continuing this growth across 
the Group.
The Public Sector Software Division has benefited from 
local government responding to the current difficult 
economic environment and we have actively engaged 
with them to look for ways to improve services at a 
reduced cost through improvements in productivity, 
vendor consolidation, automation and business change. 
The division has won seventy-five individual new 
systems in the past twelve months delivering significant 
improvements in productivity and thereby cost savings. 
Although we are not always the cheapest vendor we 
strive to demonstrate the benefits of our solutions and 
our commitment to deliver improved services and 
support over the long-term.
Building on our successes in 2011 we have this year 
implemented more shared, managed and hosted solutions 
and look forward to growing this part of our business 
further in 2013.
The Engineering Information Management Division (EIM), 
which previously just included McLaren Software, was 
expanded at the start of the year through the acquisition 
of CTSpace and at the end of the year with the extension 
of our capabilities into facilities management software with 
the acquisition of FMx. This, together with another year of 
double digit organic growth, has helped raise EIM revenue 
from 12% in 2011 to 31% in 2012. 
McLaren Software launched its new hosted “On-Air” 
offering in Q4. This resulted in making Idox the only 
global supplier within the Engineering Information 
Management market able to provide enterprise-wide 
document management and collaboration solutions for 
the construction and operation of large assets, offering a 
flexible open standards cross platform package whether 
in the Cloud, off-premise hosted or on-premise solution.
Our Information Solutions Division extended its content 
and web capabilities through added-value consultancy 
and training services outside the public sector with 
the acquisition of Currency Connect and Interactive 
Dialogues. It is now able to offer a range of content, 
hosting, e-learning and compliance solutions in the public 
sector and in the private sector across Europe. The 
division has improved its renewal rates, grown its training 
revenues in double digits and successfully completed its 
first content and managed services outsourcing contract 
for the Greater London Authority (GLA), where it not 
only reduced the costs but also managed to deliver an 
improved outcome through a combination of content, 
domain expertise and technical capability.
Recruitment continued to make a contribution to the 
business and has reorganised its approach to take account 
of the continued difficult market and the internationalisation 
of its business.
Outlook 
The Group will continue to build upon its previous financial 
success and has again started this year well with a stronger 
pipeline than the year before across all of the divisions. 
We expect the shift in revenue mix to a higher percentage 
of private sector revenues to work in our favour with higher 
top line growth expected, whilst margins are expected to 
move closer to those of the public sector business.
In 2013 we intend to accelerate the level of innovation in 
all aspects of the business, not just development, and will 
continue to look for areas of productivity improvement, 
improved processes and, above all, improved quality in 
customer care.
We expect the geographic diversification of the revenue 
base to help insulate the Group from challenging economic 
issues closer to home and assist it in the ambition to grow 
in double digits organically. 
Management will continue its strategy of becoming domain 
experts and partner of choice in the Public Sector and EIM 
markets through suitable acquisitions which will extend its 
global and technical reach.
Richard Kellet-Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
17 January 2013
Chief Executive’s Report
For the year ended 31 October 2012 07 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2012
Adjusted profit before tax (£m)
Turnover (£m)
In 2013 we intend to 
accelerate the level of 
innovation in all aspects 
of the business
7.60
2008
6.70
2009
8.00
2010
10.90
2011
14.80
2012
2008
34.03
2009
32.16
2010
31.27
2011
38.61
2012
57.90
