 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04
2013 was a disappointing year for Idox, following 
an outstanding 2012. Our core Public Sector 
Software Division (PSS) has continued to 
perform strongly, but our Engineering Information 
Management Division (EIM) failed to complete 
the required number of large scale Enterprise 
software sales in the period, although most of 
these prospects remain to be completed in what 
continues to be a substantial pipeline. Therefore 
profit before tax from continuing operations fell 
by £429,000 on a modest £1.9 million rise in 
continuing Group revenues. 
As a result we have taken a number of positive 
actions including strengthening and deepening 
our senior management team overall where there 
have been a number of significant changes, 
particularly in the EIM division which begins the 
year under new leadership. This includes adding to 
the group management capability by recruiting a 
corporate lawyer. This process will culminate in the 
appointment of a new Group CFO to the Board.
During the year we have also taken the 
opportunity to restructure and simplify Idox by 
disposing of the non-core recruitment division 
TFPL Limited. We have refocused the business 
on our core two divisions; Public Sector Software 
(PSS) and Engineering Information Management 
(EIM). Our Information Solutions business which 
largely supplies the public sector with content 
has been absorbed and integrated into the PSS 
division. This continuing integration process 
together with the termination period of a number 
of UK building leases will afford us considerable 
cost rationalisation opportunities in the current 
financial year. 
We continue to place greater emphasis on 
longer term customer relationships in our PSS 
division and increasingly in EIM as well, through 
managed service and “zero infrastructure” 
client agreements utilising our data centres and 
cloud based solutions. In PSS we have been 
successful in winning a number of notable clients 
from our competition on this basis and we are 
now adopting this model for EIM which has 
already proven successful, with the award of 
long-term extensions to two existing document 
management managed service contracts, worth 
over USD 3 million in total for the first year.
The extension of the business into international 
markets has continued and now includes the 
PSS division where we have won a significant 
portion of the Norwegian government election 
management business. We now have an 
EIM presence in Africa’s fast growing energy 
sector via our acquisition of Artesys, and the 
large Enterprise sale we secured with PSEG 
Nuclear in New Jersey, USA has deepened our 
increasing involvement with the nuclear industry 
in three continents. Despite the disappointments 
in EIM, the division has increased its overall 
significance to the Group accounting for 34% of 
revenues (2012: 32%), with EMEA sales enjoying 
positive momentum. We remain confident that 
opportunities in North America, where the historic 
focus of our business is, as well as across the rest 
of the world, will come through this year and in 
the future as large organisations start committing 
greater amounts of their generally improving cash 
reserves to corporate asset infrastructure renewal 
and development. 
“ …we have taken a 
number of positive actions 
including strengthening 
and deepening our senior 
management team…”
Chairman’s Statement
Strategic Report Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
In terms of governance and risk management, 
we took on board that we needed to strengthen 
and deepen our management capability as we 
are now a much larger global organisation than 
we were last year, with our clients operating 
across many industries and across much of the 
developed and developing world. Idox has had a 
long tradition of running a very lean business in 
terms of costs and people and we now recognise 
that we need more depth and capability across 
the Group to manage our newer activities 
around the world and provide more cover and 
support when needed in critical management 
positions. In addition, the complexities of the 
sales process for both software and services in 
large global organisations means we need to be 
more competitive in terms of management skills. 
We have achieved this during the last year by 
external recruitment, internal promotion and some 
departures which will put us in a much stronger 
position for 2014. 
We have also continued to add to the capability 
and independence of our board by recruiting 
Jeremy Millard of Smith Square Partners and 
lately of Rothschild as a financially and technically 
experienced Chartered Accountant and City 
professional in the TMT sector. Jeremy joins 
the board as a non-executive director. Jeremy 
was awarded a first class honours engineering 
degree at Cambridge and honed his operational 
management skills at Mars and the Ministry of 
Defence before moving into corporate finance. 
During the year Christopher Wright stood down 
as our longest serving non-executive director 
having joined the board ahead of Idox’s flotation. 
Christopher‘s international investment banking 
and management background, together with 
his advice on the board has been of great value 
and we wish him well for the future. This board 
development process will continue in the current 
financial year with the further appointment of an 
experienced non-executive director familiar with 
the larger size of organisation to which we aspire.
Notwithstanding the disappointing trading year, 
the board proposes subject to shareholder 
approval a final dividend of 0.4p, resulting in a 
total of 0.7p for the year, a modest 3.7% increase 
over 2012, in line with maintaining our progressive 
dividend policy.
I would like to thank our staff, advisers and 
shareholders for their support in what has been 
a challenging year for the Group. Such difficult 
times require that extra degree of fortitude, but 
the board believes that, following the streamlining 
of the business and operational and management 
changes that have been implemented, the Group 
is now better positioned to build on its underlying 
strengths and high market share in its two chosen 
markets to deliver an improved 2014. 
Martin Brooks
Chairman
21 January 2014
Revenue
£57,319k 
2012: £55,382k
2009: £27,398k
2010: £27,883k
2011: £35,231k
2012: £55,382k
2013: £57,319k
