 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 06
The Group has had a successful year in its 
further transition from a software only business 
to a specialist workflow solutions business in 
its core markets of public sector, infrastructure, 
utilities and Oil & Gas. This year saw our total 
revenues from managed services pass 8% in 
public sector and the completion of our first 
hosted, managed solution in EIM.
The Group’s strategy remains focused on markets 
where it can demonstrate highly specialised 
knowledge and where we can better serve our 
customers by adding value in content, quality 
of service and efficiency. We also continue to 
strengthen our position in the related area of 
compliance solutions and grants consultancy.
In all our markets there continued to be common 
austerity drivers, either due to government cost 
savings, or due to the current global trend to 
lower prices in order to reduce costs. Idox has 
developed, and continues to enhance solutions 
that reduce re-work, lowers risk, cuts cost and 
guarantees prompt delivery and implementation. 
We have achieved this through delivering 
standardisation, integration and streamlining 
implementation across all our solutions and 
services. We believe that this allows our 
customers to simplify operations, and through 
the integration of data, speed up decision 
making processes. 
This change in focus to solutions and on-domain 
expertise is in explicit response to changes in 
public services, and more recently, corporate 
expenditure, away from IT-led services to total 
managed services. The difficulty in the traditional 
approach of competing for internal specialist IT 
resources for the implementation of operational 
solutions is being exacerbated by the scarcity of 
resources due to cost constraints. This leads to 
delays in making change and driving efficiencies 
as operational expenditure is held up, and 
furthermore, the speed of change is slowed by the 
lack of expertise and the time taken to understand 
how to resolve the problem. Often the outcome 
is a best endeavoured solution which may miss 
the mark adding to the risk and cost. Increasingly, 
customers are realising that specialist providers 
of managed solutions know best, as they 
make services immediately available, and can 
now switch on solutions quickly in a hosted 
environment, thus making it easier and less  
risky to respond.
We believe this change in approach has been 
held back until now due to the concerns over 
security and connectivity. However the cyber 
security specialists are educating the market that 
by housing all your data in one place poses a 
greater risk, and therefore it should be distributed 
to reduce exposure. Connectivity is the same 
regardless of distance and as this becomes the 
more established view, we believe the market for 
managed solutions will accelerate.
Across our public sector market we have built 
a strong and improving reputation for delivery, 
quality of solution, speed of delivery and best 
practice for key roles. Our goal is to continue 
to build on this and extend our customers’ 
perception of Idox as a capable, credible partner 
with whom they have confidence in working.
Our goal is to provide even better solutions  
in partnership with our strategic partners through 
a continued investment in project management 
resources, infrastructure, content and domain 
Chief Executive’s Report
“ Idox has a strong and 
improving reputation for 
meeting customer needs, 
quality of solution and 
speed of delivery.”
Strategic Report
10290 IDOX AR14 2 Front AW01.indd   6 20/01/2015   09:58 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
experts. This year, through the reorganisation 
of our EIM Division, we are now extending this 
proven approach across all our areas of expertise.
Public sector revenues grew 8% due to the 
continued growth in managed services, with a 
further 52 competitor systems wins from the likes 
of Trafford, St Helens and Ealing. We expect to 
build upon this above trend growth in 2015 with 
further market share wins and more managed 
services solutions.
The Grants business grew strongly in new 
accounts in 2014 and for the first time in two years 
funding rates have remained unchanged. This 
is already translating to higher services volumes 
and billings for 2015. Our Compliance business 
will benefit from the consolidation achieved by the 
acquisition of Digital Spirit in October 2014 and we 
expect this to drive revenues in the second half of 
the year after full integration.
The EIM division’s focus in 2014 has been on 
customer care and delivery of solutions, namely: 
Investment in project management, clearer 
product roadmaps and a closer integration 
between development, product management and 
customers. The team has substantially changed 
this year with new faces and internal promotions 
lead by Peter Russell-Smith who joined us at 
the start of the year. The emphasis in 2015 is to 
grow by penetrating further existing accounts and 
developing a clearer and better partner supplier 
relationship with them. The focus in sales has also 
shifted more towards the USA given the strength 
of their economy and the current investment in 
shale gas and infrastructure.
EIM revenues from Oil & Gas represent 11% of 
Group revenues in 2014 and this is forecast to 
be lower in 2015, reflecting the dramatic slowing 
of investment in the sector and also our reduced 
investment made during the year in order to 
diversify our risk and expand in Infrastructure 
and Utilities. 
The Group continues to focus on improvements 
in effectiveness and disciplines and cash 
management. This has resulted in revenues 
and contribution per head being 5% and 8%, 
respectively, ahead of the previous year and this 
is forecast to rise further in 2015.
Outlook
The current trading environment in Public Sector 
remains unchanged, with the pre-Christmas 
public sector spending announcements in-line 
with our expectations. Our customers have 
asked for help in finding better ways of meeting 
their obligations and we are here to resolve 
these matters as their partner in providing public 
services. Therefore, we believe it remains a 
positive environment for change, which allows 
Idox the opportunity to look at doing things 
differently and therefore provides a significant 
opportunity for growth. 
Public sector IT spend is forecast to be flat in 
2015. There continues to be investment in new 
and front line services, but not in infrastructure. 
In EIM total capital projects are down in Oil & Gas 
but have not collapsed altogether, and the trend 
to standardisation to reduce costs will continue 
and the tougher markets will, we believe, 
encourage the market to adopt change faster. 
There continues to be growing investments in 
Infrastructure and Utilities. 
We believe our continuing approach to adapt  
to customer needs and to move more towards 
end-to-end total solutions is driven from 
knowledge, the application of technology and 
investment in training and staff improvement.  
The result of this is to deliver better solutions 
in public services, the demand for which, we 
believe, will fuel further growth. The application 
of these similar approaches and disciplines into 
our other verticals will, we hope, be adopted by 
these customers, as long as we focus on the 
continual improvement of our customer care  
and management.
The business is both geographically spread 
and diversified across different verticals and is 
therefore protected, to an extent, by this division. 
That is not to say we have not already taken the 
appropriate steps to protect our margins and 
focus on the core areas of growth.
Richard Kellett-Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
16 January 2015
10290 IDOX AR14 2 Front AW01.indd   7 20/01/2015   09:58
