 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 04
I am pleased to report that Idox restored good 
growth and profit progression in 2014 following 
a difficult year in 2013, matching the market 
guidance given at the end of 2013. Our core 
Public Sector Software Division (PSS) enjoyed 
an impressive year seeing organic revenue 
growth of 8%. The Engineering Information 
Management Division (EIM) only saw marginal 
growth in a challenging year in its global markets 
of 4% on a constant currency basis, and by 1% 
on a reported basis following adjustments for 
adverse exchange rate movements. The division 
did maintain an adjusted EBITDA margin of 23% 
due to the reorganisation, product improvements 
and cost rationalisations which were undertaken 
in 2013. The Group’s continuing operations 
generated £7.6m profit before tax on revenues 
up 6% to £61m.
Idox is now a Group with a simplified corporate 
structure comprising two major divisions, PSS 
and EIM. We apply our specialist information 
management skills to our chosen markets in the 
UK and around the world, with approximately 
two thirds of business in the UK from public 
sectors and one third in the global EIM business. 
In the year under review our UK public sector 
business benefitted from a high level of new 
activity, not the least in the Group’s Elections 
Business; which included providing the 
electronic management for the Referendum in 
Scotland. In our traditional Land and Property 
business we once again increased our market 
share with a number of competitive wins, 
including Trafford, St. Helens and Ealing, and 
we saw growth in managed and hosted services 
and Cloud based solutions to local authorities, 
such as Birmingham, South Norfolk, Aylesbury, 
Shropshire and Highland.
In EIM we have been challenged again by a 
fall in activity in the Oil & Gas sector, which 
currently represents just 33% of the EIM division’s 
business. Despite this, in our main market of 
North America, and also in Africa, we have added 
some notable business wins amongst the Oil & 
Gas majors, such as BG Group and Pembina, 
and we were appointed as the supplier of choice 
for a fully off-premise hosted solutions by a major 
US independent E&P company, a leader in the 
emerging shale gas and alternative extraction 
industry. In addition, outside this sector, we 
have made further gains with new client wins 
in the Utilities sector and other sectors such as 
Infrastructure. These include Mustang and Eli Lilly. 
As part of our executive leadership development 
we were delighted to appoint Jane Mackie 
as our new Group Chief Financial Officer in 
February following a formal executive search 
conducted outside and within the Group. This 
is the first time we have made an appointment 
to the board as a result of an internal promotion 
and it is a clear sign of the developing scale 
and sophistication of the Idox Group. Jane 
was previously Group Financial Controller and 
joined Idox in 2005 from Grant Thornton UK 
LLP. She has already put in place new banking 
arrangements with the Royal Bank of Scotland 
and Silicon Valley Bank which were announced 
in September and which will give us the 
additional headroom to resume an enhanced 
planned acquisition programme following the 
“ Idox was restored to 
good growth and profit 
progression in 2014” 
Chairman’s Statement
Strategic Report
10290 IDOX AR14 2 Front AW01.indd   4 20/01/2015   09:58 Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05
past year of consolidation within the Group. The 
first result of this was the acquisition of Digital 
Spirit GmbH which was announced in October.
The Board, in reviewing the risk management 
of the Group, has noted the improvements 
in the UK and North American economies, 
but also the greater uncertainties elsewhere 
in the world and more recently the significant 
fall in oil prices along with its impact on many 
emerging economies and the Oil & Gas industry. 
Historically these do shift over time and while 
the majority of the business remains UK public 
sector focused, which plays to our current 
strengths, we continue to believe that a degree 
of diversification is prudent. We are pleased 
that we have a growing relationship with North 
American shale and alternative energy providers 
as well as long-term deep customer relationships 
in the Utilities sector including Nuclear, Hydro 
and fossil generation as well as an emerging 
business in the Transmission and Distribution 
markets. This should help mitigate against any 
further fall in demand from the Oil & Gas market, 
should the oil price continue to slide, although at 
present it still remains a very large addressable 
market for us.
In developing the business and its governance 
we are about to commence a formal board 
recruitment process utilising external consultants 
to recruit additional non-executive directors with 
a view to ensuring the continuation of high level 
board representation with which to take the 
Group forward. Idox is now a much larger Group 
than five years ago and, with our ambitions 
to continue this growth path in an accretive 
and measured way, the future non-executive 
leadership is a vital element. We have started 
this a little later than planned as our focus over 
the last few months has been to bring the Group 
back on a sustainable earnings growth path. 
In view of this resumption in earnings growth, 
the Board proposes, subject to shareholder 
approval at the Group’s Annual General 
Meeting, a final dividend of 0.425p, bringing 
the total for the year to 0.75p. This represents 
an uplift of 7% over the previous year, and is 
in line with both our improved trading and our 
progressive dividend policy.
I would like to thank our executive leadership 
team and all our staff for getting the Group back 
onto a path of sustainable growth, following 
the setbacks in 2013. We are now far better 
positioned to continue this by benefitting from 
the opportunities in the UK and North America 
in particular, and are ready to take up business 
elsewhere in the world, despite a very uncertain 
global economic outlook.
Martin Brooks
Chairman
16 January 2015
Revenue
£60,677k 
2013: £57,319k
2010: £27,883k
2011: £35,231k
2012: £55,382k
2013: £57,319k
2014: £60,677k
10290 IDOX AR14 2 Front AW01.indd   5 20/01/2015   09:58
