 10
Business review IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
The outlook for 2012 and  
beyond sees IGas demonstrating 
the deliverability of our 
unconventional resources while 
continuing to deliver from our 
conventional ﬁelds.
The last fifteen months, since January 2011 
have seen IGas move to controlling its assets 
and delivering production in Britain. The 
acquisition of Star Energy Group has brought 
us not only material current production and 
significant sub-surface upside potential but the 
people, skills, equipment and fiscal synergies 
that are essential to deliver onshore in  
Britain from both conventional and 
unconventional resources.
Our plans to demonstrate the deliverability of 
our unconventional assets continue. We have 
drilled three wells this year, two at Doe Green 
into different seams. DG-3 is a c.1,500ft lateral 
in the London Delph seam. Drilled with the 
BDF28 rig, the well was completed safely  
on the 4 October. The rig then drilled DG-4 
well into the Plodder seam at a depth of 
3,560ftTVSS. Again this well was drilled safely 
and the rig left site on 14 February 2012.  
Both wells were more complicated geologically 
than anticipated, however we were able to 
install slotted liners over a total length of 
c.2,500ft. All three wells (DG-2, DG-3 and 
DG-4) have now been hooked up to the 
production facilities on site since mid-March 
2012 and we are currently de-watering the 
wells (this process is taking longer than 
anticipated). We look forward, post the 
de-watering process to announcing stabilised 
production rates from these wells to add to 
the production history we have from DG-2.
Getting the most from the mature assets in the 
Weald and East Midlands is a key priority for 
our Company and we are delighted with 
production levels, which at the year end were 
2,700boepd. To this end, we have launched  
a ‘chase the barrels’ initiative which is to seek 
out opportunities for increasing production and 
up time and reducing lifting costs. Several 
projects have already been identified. Following a 
successful production test at Albury where gas 
was shown to flow at commercial rates, 
planning permission has been applied for to 
install export equipment. Other areas under 
The acquisition 
of Star Energy 
transforms our 
business.
“The development of gas from 
shale horizons clearly needs to be 
carried out in a way that engages 
with and is supported by other 
stakeholders in the area. In all of 
our operations to date both from 
conventional and unconventional 
reservoirs, our relations with those 
around us have always been key 
and will continue to remain so”
Andrew Austin, CEO, IGas Energy 11
IGas Energy Plc
Annual report and accounts
201 1/12
have discovered a potentially world class shale 
resource. Clearly further wells and analysis are 
required to fully appraise the shale and 
critically flow tests need to be performed, 
however our results combined with those of 
operators in neighbouring licences in the 
Bowland Shale are extremely encouraging.
The development of gas from shale horizons 
clearly needs to be carried out in a way that 
engages with and is supported by other 
stakeholders in the area. In all of our 
operations to date both from conventional 
and unconventional reservoirs, our relations 
with those around us have always been key 
and will continue to remain so. 
It is customary practice at IGas to fully consult 
with the local community and other relevant 
stakeholder groups in all the local areas in 
which we operate.
We believe that gas extracted locally, including 
shale gas is potentially a very important part 
of the future energy mix in the UK and provides 
a number of benefits including local jobs  
and secure and potentially cheaper energy  
to local consumers.
The shale horizons we have so far identified 
underlie existing identified CBM resources. 
This offers the opportunity to develop both 
resources in tandem and thereby enhancing the 
economics of both, but particularly of the CBM.
I am particularly pleased to announce that our 
production division has recently been awarded 
our 2nd Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents Gold Medal Award to complement 
our 4 previous Gold Awards. Receipt of these 
6 consecutive Awards is a terrific testament  
to the dedication and commitment of all 
employees and our appointed contractors  
in ensuring we continue to apply the highest 
safety standards across our operations.
The process of integrating both acquisitions 
made last year is proceeding well. The 
acquisition of Star Energy required integration 
of more than 150 people and a significant 
number of legacy systems. We have been 
successful in achieving all of our “100 day” 
goals and now have an integrated HSE, 
emergency response and IT platform as well 
as having relocated the head office staff to 
IGas offices in London.
Andrew Austin
Chief Executive Officer
consideration include the installation of rod 
pump controllers to reduce wear and the need 
for work overs. Further installation of remote 
monitoring and energy management 
arrangements are also being considered to 
reduce operating expenditure. We are looking 
to carry out another well test in the Weald Basin 
shortly. This will be to assess the commerciality 
of previously shut in wells. Following this test a 
decision will be made on the installation of 
export facilities at this location.
While the basins have been in production for 
considerable periods of time, the proportion 
of in place hydrocarbons to date recovered is 
still low and using modern techniques we are 
confident of the future potential of the assets.
Successful appraisal of our unconventional 
resource potential continued with Ince 
Marshes-1 well, which was spudded on  
4 November 2011. This well was planned to 
log and core the coals in the area around which 
less was known than elsewhere in our portfolio. 
The entire coal sequence was encountered 
shallower than anticipated and the decision 
was taken to continue to drill into the deeper 
horizons to better understand the geology 
and resource potential of the area. While it was 
anticipated that shale would be encountered, 
the results of the drilling, the logs and samples 
received, completely surpassed our expectations. 
We encountered and logged a significant 
Bowland Shale section of approximately 1,000ft. 
The well was TD’d in the Bowland Shale due 
to the limitations imposed by the CBM well 
design criteria. The well was suspended so 
that it might be re-entered and deepened  
at a later stage to fully appraise the entire 
thickness of the Bowland Shale. The logs and 
samples were sent for independent analysis. 
These results indicate a resource in excess of 
twice the pre-drill estimate and with the total 
organic carbon (“TOC”) observed between 
1.2 and 6.9 (average 2.7) and initial analysis of 
the samples support our view that we may 
Our strategy
IGas has accumulated a 
signiﬁcant hydrocarbon 
resource base from 35 oil 
and gas exploration 
licences in the UK. The 
contingent recoverable 
resources, totaling some 
317 million barrels of oil 
and gas equivalent (P50), 
largely from CBM, 
represent a portfolio of 
development opportunities 
which the Company 
intends to exploit over the 
medium term, delivering 
natural gas to the UK’s 
grid, oil to UK reﬁneries 
and enhanced value to the 
Company’s shareholders.
Using the onshore 
expertise of the now 
expanded IGas team, the 
Company will seek to 
enhance recovery from its 
portfolio of mature wells, 
creating avenues to 
improve cash ﬂow which 
will be applied to further 
develop the Company’s 
resource base, while at  
the same time seeking 
synergistic opportunities 
to acquire new onshore oil 
and gas acreage.
