 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
14
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“Our vision is to be  
the leading onshore  
independent British  
company developing  
and producing  
discovered hydrocarbons.”
I am delighted to report on a year of 
material developments for both IGas  
and the wider onshore oil and gas industry 
in Britain.
Production has been in line with budget,  
we have acquired an additional producing 
asset in Scotland, successfully completed  
an exploration well in the North West and 
have a significant forward programme for 
both our existing producing assets as well  
as shale and coal bed methane appraisal.
During the course of the year there  
has been meaningful progress made  
in developing the regulatory and  
associated framework to support shale  
gas development. The Government has  
now put its full support behind shale gas 
and there is a broad cross party consensus 
in favour of its development in Britain.  
As part of this progress the Government  
is putting in place a considerable number  
of measures whereby local communities  
will benefit directly from shale activity, 
starting at the exploratory phase and 
increasing very substantially in the event  
of commercial production.
Recent studies in Britain by a number 
of eminent institutions and individuals 
including the Royal Society and Royal 
Academy of Engineering, Public Health 
England, the Chartered Institute of Water 
and Environmental Management and 
Professor David Mackay and Dr Tim Stone 
have all concluded that any potential risks 
associated with hydraulic fracturing can be 
managed in a properly regulated industry.
Financial results
Revenues attributable to oil and gas 
production during the period were  
£75.9m (2013: £68.3m) on production  
of c.1.0 mmboe (2013: c.0.9 mmboe). 
EBITDA
2
 for the year to 31st March 2014 
was £34.3m (2013: £32.3m) and we made  
a net profit of £2.3m against a loss in 2013 
of £6.0m.
The Company ended the period with 
£28.3m of cash and cash equivalents  
(2013: £9.8m), net debt of £80.4m  
(2013: £77.4m) and net current assets  
of £74.3m (2013: £59.1m).
We completed a successful refinancing of 
the Macquarie debt through the completion 
of US$165m five year term bonds in April 
2013, which listed on the Oslo Børs in 
September. In December we completed the 
arrangement of a US$30m senior unsecured 
bonds issue, which were listed on the Oslo 
alternative bond market shortly thereafter.
Operational review
In December 2013 we acquired Caithness  
Oil Limited, a producing asset in Scotland, 
with upside potential through the 
monetisation of associated gas. This is  
in line with our strategy of supplementing 
organic growth with acquisitions that have  
a complementary fit with the business. 
Earlier this year IGas, along with our 
partners Egdon Resources, Dart Energy and 
eCorp signed a Farm-out Agreement with 
Total E&P UK Limited for a fully funded  
work programme of up to US$46.5m  
on two of our licence areas in the 
Gainsborough Trough in Lincolnshire. 
IGas became operator of the licences on 
completion of the deal in February and 
unusually increased its interest in the 
licence through the transaction.
The entry of the first super major into British 
shale gas licences is a further endorsement 
of the potential that exists following the 
commitments by Centrica and GDF Suez to 
other UK acreage, and demonstrates strong 
support for our operating capability.
We completed drilling operations at our 
exploration well at Barton Moss in Eccles 
in a safe and environmentally responsible 
manner. The well encountered the coal 
measures at anticipated depths and also 
found a package comprising the Sabden  
and Bowland Shale formations. 
With three decades of experience of 
onshore exploration and developments  
in Britain, the IGas Group is well aware  
of the challenge of managing both above 
and below ground risks. The former,  
in particular, have grown in complexity  
more recently as we are rightly being held 
ever more accountable for the impact  
of our operations.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
15
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We are investing heavily in building our 
organisational capabilities, continuously 
seeking to improve our understanding, 
engagement and social performance.  
We are determined to maximise local 
business opportunities and are committed 
to engaging with the communities in which 
we operate with integrity and transparency.
People
Enabling people to fulfil their potential  
is central to achieving both our strategy 
and our vision of creating shared prosperity 
for our shareholders, our staff and the 
communities with whom we work.  
Our workforce now totals 161 people.  
We remain focused on building capacity  
in our areas of operation and creating  
local employment opportunities. 
The contribution and efforts of the 
executive team at IGas has led to significant 
value creation for your Company over  
the last year and I would like to commend 
them particularly on this result.
I would also like to thank all of our 
employees and contractors for their  
hard work and commitment to the  
future success of the Company.
Outlook
The global appetite for energy continues 
to grow. Domestically, North Sea oil and 
gas output has fallen by 38% over the last 
three years and by 2020 Britain is set to 
be reliant on imports to meet 70% of the 
country’s gas needs. The vulnerability of 
energy supplies has also been exposed by 
international political unrest. When it comes 
to security of supply, there is a pressing 
need for solutions and we believe we have 
successfully positioned IGas to be part  
of the solution.
Since the year end, as part of our strategy  
to secure access to more resources, we  
have announced the proposed acquisition 
of Dart Energy which will create a market 
leading onshore British oil and gas company 
with the largest area in Britain under licence  
of over 1 million net acres, including  
a presence in each of Britain’s major  
shale basins. 
We also intend to be an active  
participant in the 14
th
 UK Onshore  
licensing round which is currently  
expected to be announced around  
mid-year.
Your Board remains committed to  
creating long-term sustainable value  
for all of our stakeholders. 
Francis Gugen
Non-Executive Chairman
£75.9m
Revenue (2013: £68.3m)
2 
EBITDA relates to earnings before gains/(losses) on oil price derivatives, net finance costs, tax, depletion,  
depreciation and amortisation, acquisition costs and impairment of exploration and evaluation assets.
