 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
12
We have continued to pursue well 
interventions to enhance performance, 
examples include, workover of Stockbridge 
and Storrington wells to enhance  
production and install downhole gauges 
(STOR-1) to monitor reservoir pressure  
and optimise offtake. Similar activities  
have been conducted to optimise jet  
pump performance at various locations. 
We continue to look for new innovative 
technology applications that may be  
of benefit, notable examples include the  
re-perforation of Glentworth-11. Other 
examples include running perforating tools 
on rods which have significant cost savings 
over more traditional approaches.
We have also successfully trialled the 
installation of a wax reduction tool in  
a number of wells. The results from the  
long Clawson C2 well suggest that we can 
reduce the need for “hot washing” from 
twenty six times per annum to just four 
which results in a reduction of deferred 
production of some 2,000 bbls per annum. 
This trial is to be extended to other wells 
which have a similar waxing issues.  
If successful, this will increase well up-time 
and reduce the need for costly workovers 
and associated deferred production.
The programme of work for the installation 
of technology to optimise rod pumping wells 
using Rod Pump Off Controllers (RPOC)  
has continued. To date we have installed  
49 systems out of the initial tranche of 50.  
In addition to increased well uptime due  
to lower rod wear/breakages and associated 
operating expenditure savings, we have  
also seen a significant reduction in deferred 
production. Due to the success of the initial 
installations, we plan to extend this initiative 
across the portfolio where appropriate.
The pilot water flood projects at Welton 
and Beckingham are progressing well with 
surface infrastructure enabling works largely 
completed (intelligent pigging of existing 
lines, pipeline hydraulics completed, Project 
HAZOP , modifications to manifolds and 
equipment orders placed). The completions 
in the candidate water injection wells have 
been installed and commissioning of the 
plant is expected in the second half of the 
2014/15 financial year.
Current production
The average net production in the twelve 
months to 31 March 2014 was 2,783 boepd 
(2013: 2,470 boepd).
Our production is evenly spread between 
our fields in the East Midlands in the North 
and the Weald Basin in the South. Following 
the Caithness acquisition oil production 
from the Lybster field has been average  
over 100 bopd.
We continue to identify opportunities  
to enhance recovery and production from 
our conventional fields. Our ‘Chase the 
Barrels’ initiative and other technical  
studies have demonstrated the potential  
to add new production.
Our total conventional reserves and 
resources have been independently 
assessed by Senergy this year as  
23.9 mmboe (2P and 2C). In comparison,  
the assessment at the time of 2012 CPR  
by Senergy was 16.4 mmboe (2P and 2C). 
The 2014 figures include the 2P reserves 
and resources in relation to the acquisitions 
of Singleton (including the Baxter’s Copse 
field) and Caithness assessed by Senergy.
The Doe Green pilot Coal Bed Methane 
(“CBM”) site continues to produce gas  
which is used to generate electricity and  
is then exported to the National Grid. 
Chase the Barrels
Progress on our ‘Chase the Barrels’ 
initiative has continued with activity to 
realise incremental production and opex 
optimisation. This has been augmented  
by an increasing focus on more sustainable 
long term production enhancements such 
as the pilot water flood initiatives at Welton 
and Beckingham. It is hoped that success  
in these areas will help lift reserves.
During the period, the technical team 
continued to evaluate a number of 
opportunities to increase oil production 
through relatively low cost well intervention 
and production enhancement operations. 
Based on comprehensive subsurface  
studies the most attractive short term  
well entry opportunities, including for 
example re-perforations, water shut offs  
and recompletions were identified, ranked  
and some have been implemented.
Producing assets
IGas currently has 30 fields with 117 oil and gas wells in Britain, 
producing predominantly oil.
47 mboe
The East Midlands area under  
licence consists of 17 oil fields and  
80 sites and has produced more  
than 47 million barrels of oil to date
21 mboe
Based in southern England, the Weald 
Basin consists of 11 fields within  
which there are 18 production sites  
and 21 million barrels of oil have  
been produced to date
There are a number of stranded gas 
monetisation projects that are being 
evaluated including Albury. Planning 
permission was granted earlier this year  
for a change of use for the Albury site, 
including the potential installation of  
a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant. This  
will allow natural gas production from 
the site to be compressed into LNG for 
transportation off-site. There are many uses 
for LNG, including as an alternative road 
fuel. Advanced commercial negotiations are 
currently nearing completion for the offtake 
of the LNG from the site, as a precursor  
to formal project sanction. The potential  
for using this mini LNG technology 
elsewhere in the portfolio as a means  
of monetising stranded gas is something  
we are actively pursuing and evaluating.
Similar studies are underway to assess  
how to monetise the gas potential  
at Lybster. Preliminary studies indicate  
a solution involving Compressed Natural 
Gas. A project team to advance this  
has been established.
Field development studies continue  
aimed at increasing ultimate recovery  
and reserves and identifying infill well 
drilling opportunities. 
STRATEGIC REPORT / ASSETS OVERVIEW CONTINUED IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
13
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
SUCCESSFUL
ENERGY  
PRODUCER
