 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
16 16
STRATEGIC REPORT / Q&A WITH THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Q&A
North Sea tax revenues have been 
considerable, accounting for more than  
5% of total government receipts for much  
of the 1980s. Shale gas production could  
also generate significant tax revenue  
for the country.
What value could this unlock for 
shareholders? How would such 
growth be funded?
This represents a tremendous opportunity 
to be at the forefront of new and potentially 
significant industry. On completion of the 
Dart Energy acquisition, IGas will have the 
materiality and scale that will enable it to 
find partners at the asset level to help supply 
the capital that exploiting these resources 
will require, while retaining the position  
of operator of choice.
How does IGas engage with 
communities and ensure their 
concerns are listened to? 
We engage in a number of ways using 
traditional methods such as face to face 
meetings, exhibitions, information days  
and direct mail as well as digital and social  
media such as microsites for local projects. 
We run a public information line as well as  
a freepost address and online enquiries 
so that the public can reach us through 
whichever medium they feel most 
comfortable with.
What role does onshore gas 
have in decarbonizing the British 
economy? Is it consistent with 
our climate change targets and 
renewable industry policies?
Natural gas is a vital component of Britain’s 
energy mix – not only electricity for 
generation but also for heating and cooking. 
According to the European Commission’s 
landmark ‘Energy Roadmap 2050’ report,  
gas must play a key role in the transition  
to a greener energy future, and is critical 
for the transformation of Europe’s energy 
system from fossil fuel to renewables.
Gas produced locally would generate lower 
emissions than imported gas, as it doesn’t 
have to be transported from places like  
What difference do you think  
the onshore industry could make  
to Britain?
Britain needs to secure its future energy mix 
and offset declining North Sea production. 
Whilst doing this, it must also reduce carbon 
emissions from reliance on coal power and 
ensure an affordable future energy supply for 
consumers. Gas is vital to Britain, it currently 
provides more than 80% of our heating needs 
and around 30% of our electricity generation.
The benefits of the shale industry will  
be felt across the country in lower imports, 
higher revenues to the Exchequer, job creation, 
supply chain development and energy security. 
What are the key challenges faced 
by IGas and other operators? 
It is a combination of both above surface and 
below surface. Above surface is about showing 
the public that this can be carried out safely 
and responsibly. Onshore oil and gas regulation 
in Britain has been recognised as an exemplar 
by the rest of the world oil and gas has for over 
three decades been safely explored, developed 
and produced onshore at IGas sites.
Below surface, while we know there is gas,  
we still need to establish that we can we make 
it flow at commercially viable rates. Britain has 
several advantages over the US because of our 
existing infrastructure, density of resource and 
clarity of regulation. 
Can an onshore gas industry ever 
have sufficient scale to be material 
like the North Sea was in the  
last century?
Yes I believe it can. Aberdeen welcomed the 
development of a new offshore industry and 
the city grew to become the energy capital  
of Europe and now exports its expertise 
globally. We could see this replicated  
onshore in the areas in which we operate. 
According to the IOD Report, based on  
a recovery rate of 10% the combined gas  
in place estimates of the exploration 
companies would equate to a recoverable 
resource of 30.9 trillion cubic feet, nearly  
two thirds of Britain’s potentially recoverable 
conventional gas resources.
Russia and Qatar. Gas also produces half 
the CO
2
 generated by burning coal, which 
currently accounts for 31% of Britain’s 
electricity. Developing our shale resources 
will help us move away from coal and 
decarbonize our economy.
Who regulates IGas’s activities?
The industry is regulated by a number  
of statutory bodies including the 
Environment Agency (EA) in England, 
Scottish Environment Protection Agency 
(SEPA) in Scotland and Natural Resources 
Wales (NRW) in Wales, Health and Safety 
Executive (HSE) and the Department  
of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). 
Onshore oil and gas regulation in Britain  
has been recognised as an exemplar by  
the rest of the world. In addition the 
industry is governed by 14 separate  
pieces of European legislation.
What are the wider community 
benefits of IGas’s operations?
We are committed to the environment  
and the communities in which we operate 
and we have a long track record of engaging 
with local residents and we operate our 
own Community Fund.
There is a much wider opportunity for 
communities in addition to the direct 
community benefits of £100,000 when  
wells are tested and 1% of revenue at 
production. DECC has announced that 
Councils will be able to keep 100 per  
cent of business rates generated from  
shale gas extraction sites. Together these  
benefits are potentially worth several 
million pounds.
As we proceed with the exploration of  
shale there is an opportunity for local  
and national businesses of all sizes in  
the supply chain. The recent EY  
Report “Getting ready for UK shale gas”, 
commissioned by UKOOG, has highlighted 
an enormous opportunity for Britain with 
potentially £33bn spend in the next  
15 or so years. The report also outlines  
the need for some 64,500 jobs (direct, 
indirect, induced) at peak production. IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
17
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
18
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
“Managing trust locally, while 
addressing the national energy 
challenge and in the process, 
potentially creating a new industry 
has to be the heart of planning  
for 2014/15.”
This has been another successful year 
for IGas. We continued to deliver our 
strategy of becoming the leading onshore 
independent company developing and 
producing discovered hydrocarbons  
in Britain.
We have seen further growth in the 
business whilst constantly maintaining  
our focus on operational excellence.  
The recent announcement of the proposed 
acquisition of Dart Energy will create  
a British national energy champion with 
a track record of drilling wells safely and 
on budget, placing the enlarged group in 
a strong position to deliver on its existing 
asset base and for future licensing rounds.
Confidence in British shale has been 
demonstrated over the period by Centrica’s 
investment into Cuadrilla’s acreage, which 
is situated close to our licences in the North 
West, GDF Suez’s farm-in transaction with 
Dart Energy, whose acreage is located 
immediately to the South of our acreage in 
the North West and adjacent to our licences 
in the East Midlands and our own farm-out 
agreement with Total E&P UK Limited in 
our PEDL 139/140 Licences located in the 
Gainsborough Trough. 
During the year significant progress has 
been made in developing the regulatory 
and associated framework to support  
shale gas development. 
In June 2013, the DECC announced  
a benefits package for communities 
near new shale gas drilling sites. Under 
the proposals operators will offer local 
communities £100,000 per hydraulically 
fractured well when wells are tested, 
as well as 1% of revenues once sites 
become commercial. The industry, under 
the umbrella of the United Kingdom 
Onshore Operators Group (UKOOG), the 
representative body for UK onshore oil and 
gas companies, subsequently launched a 
pilot scheme, for the first few exploration 
sites. The scheme will be in partnership with 
UK Community Foundations (UKCF), which 
works for communities through a UK-wide 
network of community foundations, to 
independently administer the funds on 
behalf of the community. UKOOG has also 
launched a consultation programme across 
a range of stakeholders to gauge community 
opinion on a number of different potential 
schemes to create a community benefit 
mechanism to distribute the 1% share  
of production revenue.
The EA has published draft technical 
guidance for onshore oil and gas  
exploration drilling, covering both 
conventional and unconventional targets. 
This consultation closed on 23rd October 
2013. The EA has announced that it will 
develop a single application pack for all 
Environmental Permit Regulators including 
mining waste and NORM (naturally 
occurring radioactive materials),  
to streamline the existing processes.
In September 2013, the Government 
published the Mackay Stone report 
compiled by Professor David MacKay,  
chief scientific advisor at DECC, and  
Dr Tim Stone, Special Advisor to the 
Secretary of State, into the subject of 
greenhouse gas emissions from shale gas 
operations. The report concluded that,  
with the right safeguards in place, the net 
effect on greenhouse gas emissions from 
shale gas production in Britain will be 
relatively small and is likely to have  
a greenhouse gas footprint similar to  
other fossil fuels that society currently 
depends on.
Public Health England released a report  
in October on the potential public health 
risks from shale gas production. The report 
states that properly run and regulated  
shale gas extraction represents a low  
risk to public health.
In the Autumn Statement the Chancellor 
announced a new fiscal regime for the 
onshore oil and gas sector. The regime 
reduces the tax rate on a portion of  
a company’s profits from 62% to 30% 
to reflect the challenges of shale gas 
exploration. Companies will receive an 
allowance equal to 75% of capital spent  
on projects.
In January 2014, DECC announced that 
local councils will be able to keep 100% 
of business rates generated from onshore 
production sites bringing new sites into line 
with renewables projects.  IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2013/14
19
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our business model
Deliver for stakeholders
Getting value for resources
Acquire complementary assets
Extract resources safely and responsibly
Exploration of  
conventional resources
Exploration of 
unconventional resources
“The shale gas revolution… 
can be very consistent with 
low-carbon development… 
Gas can be very helpful  
as a bridge technology.”
Ottmar Edenhofer, co-chairman of the IPCC report and professor  
of climate change economics at the Technical University Berlin.
Exploration well at Barton Moss
 
At the end of November 2013 we spudded  
an exploration well at Barton Moss in Eccles,  
Greater Manchester.
The primary objective of the well was to take rock samples which 
will enable us to understand what is beneath the surface more 
fully and thereby identify the resource potential in the underlying 
geological formations. 
We worked extensively throughout the project with the various 
authorities to ensure the safety of everyone on and around site 
including protestors and neighbours. 
As with all our operations our relationship with local residents was 
vital to us. At Barton we worked with a community liaison group  
in the area since we were originally granted planning permission 
back in 2010. 
We put in place a comprehensive relationship programme 
including a community information day last September ahead of 
the commencement of the operation and we launched a microsite 
www.igas-barton.co.uk to ensure that as many people as possible 
could view and understand the work that we were carrying out  
in the area. 
We believe the onus is on operators to ensure that the public are 
informed as to the safe extraction of oil and gas resources. During 
the exploration project at Barton we continued to inform and 
explain with regular newsletters, updates to the microsite and  
a drop-in community Q&A surgery session attended by senior 
members of the IGas team.
To learn more about the exploration well at Barton Moss online visit: 
www.igasplc.com/our-operations/where-we-operate/north-west
