 Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
10  Business review
Chairman’s
statement
Over the last 12 months we 
have successfully demonstrated 
our capabilities to a number 
of world leading multinational 
corporations, and have seen 
substantial growth in joint 
development and contract 
research revenues.
Jack Boyer
Chairman
Expanding into growth    markets
Introduction
I am pleased to announce Ilika’s results for the financial 
year ended 30 April 2011 after its first year as a listed AIM 
company, and to provide an update on the progress we 
have made in that time. At the time of the IPO, we set 
ourselves a number of objectives and it is gratifying to 
report that these have been achieved. Over the course 
of the year we have enjoyed considerable success, 
particularly in the energy and biomedical sectors, with 
both contract renewals with existing customers and new 
agreements entered into. Our focus has also been on 
Asia and the United States, where we have significantly 
increased our business initiatives. 
Ilika’s technology 
Ilika’s unique high throughput technology (‘HTT’) 
accelerates the discovery of new and patentable 
materials for identified end uses. This process enables 
hundreds of materials to be made in a single, 
automated, operation and subsequently tested for the 
necessary properties.
The production of a new material has traditionally 
been a slow and arduous process, taking between 7 
and 10 years to move from an initial discovery through to 
the first commercial prototype. Experiments carried out 
by Ilika can be executed 10 to 100 times faster than by 
using conventional techniques. 
The Group’s primary strategy is to enter into joint 
development or licensing agreements with large 
multinational companies seeking to commercialise 
products developed using the intellectual property 
created through jointly funded programmes. Current 
commercialisation partners include Toyota, Shell, 
Johnson Matthey and CeramTec.
Financial results
I am pleased to report Ilika has delivered a good set of 
financial results. Total revenues for the year ending 30 
April 2011, increased to approximately £1.5 million, 46 
percent ahead of last year and there has also been 
a substantial increase in the level of grant funding for 
in-house R&D, shown as other operating income, which 
increased to approximately £0.4 million, 66 percent 
ahead of last year. Loss before tax for the year improved 
slightly and is in line with expectations. Our cash 
balances remain strong, totalling £2.8 million at 30 April 
2011. At the year end, committed revenues including 
other operating income for the first half of 2011/2012 
exceeded £0.7 million. This compares to a figure of  
£0.15 million for the first half of 2010/2011.
Review of the year
Over the last 12 months we have successfully 
demonstrated our capabilities to a number of world 
leading multinational corporations, and have seen 
substantial growth in joint development and contract 
research revenues. We have embarked on commercial  Financial 
statements
Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
11  Business review
Business 
review Governance Overview
Expanding into growth    markets
stem cells taken from umbilical cords, or more invasive 
sources such as fat tissue or bone marrow. It also offers 
a collection system that enables adults to be visited at 
home for blood samples to be taken.
People
We have an extremely strong and highly experienced 
Executive Board at Ilika, including Professor Brian 
Hayden, our Chief Scientific Officer and a founder of 
the Company. Alongside Brian sit Dr. Werner Braun 
and Professor Sir William Wakeham, whose wealth of 
experience will be fundamental in helping Ilika expand 
both in the UK and overseas. Clare Spottiswoode, who 
joined the Board at the time of the IPO, is also a great 
asset to the Company particularly in the energy sector as 
we continue to develop material solutions for this market.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of 
the team at Ilika for their continued energy and hard 
work and for their commitment to making it a world 
class company. I would also like to thank our strategic 
partners, distributors and advisers for their contribution to 
the development of the Company during the course of 
the financial year.
 
Outlook
Over the course of the last year, we have set the way for 
fully executing our IPO plan set out in 2010, and are on 
track to deliver future growth. Progress has been made 
across all 3 areas of Ilika’s activities (energy, electronics 
and biomedical) and our expansion of business 
development activities has ensured that there is a broad 
pipeline of new opportunities ahead.
Our performance to date has met expectations, and 
we remain on track to deliver our predicted milestones. 
Ilika is committed to expanding its European and Asian 
activities and anticipates further business development 
opportunities in Asia on the back of the region’s 
manufacturing-led recovery. The North American market 
also offers considerable opportunities for materials 
discovery and development, and we continue to pursue 
new opportunities there.
In summary, we look forward to continuing to 
achieve the goals set out at our IPO and to maintaining 
the growth that we have achieved thus far in this 
financial year. I look forward to reporting progress during 
the coming year and beyond.
Jack Boyer
Chairman
13 July 2011
projects with three new customers, whilst continuing 
to build on our longer standing relationships.
In the energy sector, we renewed and extended 
the scope of our existing relationship with a major 
automotive corporation for the development of 
battery materials. The collaboration reinforces 
Ilika’s position as a globally leading provider of 
materials expertise for the rapid development of 
next generation battery materials. We also entered 
into a contract with the Ministry of Defence for the 
identification and optimisation of next generation 
thermoelectric materials. These materials have the 
potential to increase significantly the efficiency of 
conventional engines and generators through the 
harvesting of waste heat. 
We have also made progress in developing 
materials and have recently collaborated with 
Sigma Aldrich to work on the scale-up and 
commercialisation of next generation hydrogen 
storage materials. We firmly believe that this 
enterprise will become a vital component of the 
energy industry’s efforts to develop consumer-friendly 
hydrogen storage materials for fuel cell and clean 
combustion technology.
Good progress has also been made in the 
electronics sector, when we signed an initial contract 
with a global electronics manufacturer in February 
2011. The contract is to develop high throughput, 
screening technologies for the identification and 
optimisation of next generation electronic materials, 
in return for stage payments. In April 2011, we 
entered into a similar contract with another leading 
electronics manufacturer, this time to help develop its 
next generation of battery materials.
Our technical capabilities have received public 
sector recognition, in the form of grants awarded for 
the development of a range of materials. In July 2010, 
a consortium led by Altrika, our healthcare focused 
subsidiary, was awarded a £153,000 grant for the 
development of a treatment for full thickness skin 
wounds. In October 2010, Ilika was awarded an initial 
research and development grant by the Carbon Trust 
to undertake the scale up, synthesis and testing of 
high performing palladium alloy compositions for use 
in fuel cell vehicles. Palladium alloy electrocatalysts 
have the potential to be 70 percent cheaper than 
platinum catalysts on a cost/performance basis. A 
further grant of £173,000 towards this initiative was 
awarded in April 2011.
Since the financial year end, Ilika’s wholly 
owned subsidiary Altrika made a significant medical 
breakthrough involving the collection and storage 
of adult stem cells. The Oristem
®
 service offers a 
new, patented method of harvesting, isolating and 
storing stem cells from adult blood. It is a welcome 
move forwards from current forms of stem cell 
extraction which have been confined to neo-natal 
