 02  Overview
Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
Ilika at a glance
Ilika’s unique process is far quicker 
and more efficient than traditional 
materials discovery processes.
Fast-tracking    materials discovery
Ilika uses high throughput, or 
combinatorial, techniques 
which involve the rapid 
synthesis of a large number 
of different structurally  
related materials in a few 
automated steps.
Energy
We are developing innovative new materials  
for lithium-ion batteries, developing high capacity 
hydrogen storage materials, developing cheaper 
alternatives to platinum electrodes for use in fuel 
cells, and carrying out in-house research on film 
photovoltaic solar cells.
Ilika can cover a wide range of different market 
applications within the energy sector to help customers 
advance their materials discovery programmes. The 
great breadth and large numbers of samples that 
can be synthesised and screened with respect to an 
identified capability means that Ilika can optimise 
materials in a much shorter timeframe. For hydrogen 
storage applications, different compositions can be 
characterised with respect to their hydrogen adsorption 
and desorption behaviours including their hydrogen 
storage capacity and cyclability.
For fuel cell and battery applications, the candidate 
materials can be measured for catalytic activity. For the 
photovoltaic market, for example, it is possible to screen 
materials for greater energy conversion efficiency. Overview
Business 
review Governance
Financial 
statements
03  Overview
Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
Fast-tracking    materials discovery
Electronics
We are developing lead-free piezoelectric 
materials through a joint development 
programme with CeramTec; and developing 
phase change memory materials for high 
capacity memory chips.
We cover a wide range of different market 
applications within the electronics sector to help 
customers advance their materials discovery 
programmes. The fast throughput approach to 
materials synthesis coupled with high throughput 
characterisation and screening means that Ilika can 
optimise materials with respect to a desired property 
in a much shorter timeframe. For phase change 
memory applications, for example, we can monitor 
the phase change behaviour of different alloys such 
as GeSbTe as a function of temperature. The optical 
and electrical behaviours of interesting compositions 
can then be studied in more detail.
Biomedical
We are developing polymers to enable the 
filtering of somatic stem cells from blood,  
have been selling our Cryoskin and Myskin 
products for the treatment of burns and wounds 
in the UK and intend to commence clinical trials 
of our corneal bandage candidate.
Ilika has developed an extensive library of bio-
functional materials specifically designed to promote 
or deter cell binding, enrich specific cell types from 
diverse populations and promote cell growth on 
tailored surfaces. We are working together with 
medical device companies to create valuable 
products through the application of cell-specific 
functional coatings optimised using our high 
throughput techniques. The application areas  
in which we are active include:
Skin Wound care >
Cell Replacement for Organ Regeneration >
Implants  >
Diagnostic Devices  >
Cell Purification >
