 Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
12  Business review
Chief Executive’s 
review
Graeme Purdy
Chief Executive
Addressing key unmet    needs
Introduction
In this first full year since Ilika was admitted to the London 
Stock Exchange, the Company has pursued its strategy 
of being a partner of choice for the development of new 
materials designed to solve some of the world’s most 
important needs, particularly in the cleantech sector.
The Company has continued to work with blue-chip 
partners, which are active in the energy, electronics and 
biomedical market sectors. The sector-split of revenue 
generated in the past year has consisted broadly of 
70 percent in energy, 20 percent in electronics and 10 
percent in biomedical. 
Ilika stands out as a compelling enterprise in 
these markets because of the unique nature of the 
high throughput techniques which Ilika uses in order 
to make and test new materials. The high throughput 
technology platform, originally developed at the University 
of Southampton, has proven itself to be a versatile and 
effective method for developing new materials with 
reproducible and scalable properties. This capability has 
been further developed over the last year, strengthening 
the Company’s global profile. The Company has continued 
to attract an international customer base resulting in 83 
percent of its revenues coming from outside the UK. 
Energy
Most analysts agree that the sources and carriers of 
energy for transport, domestic and industrial uses are 
set to become increasingly diverse. For example, in 
the transport sector, the ubiquitous use of petrol and 
diesel is being supplemented with compressed natural 
gas (‘CNG’), liquefied petroleum gas (‘LPG’), biofuel, 
electricity (stored in batteries) and hydrogen. For these 
new fuels to be attractive to the customer there are a 
number of basic conditions that have to be fulfilled: the 
fuels need to be cheap enough to compete with petrol 
and diesel; they need to contain sufficient energy within 
a manageable volume and weight; the conversion of 
energy from its stored form into vehicle motive power 
needs to be done easily and economically and finally, 
replenishing fuel on-board the vehicle needs to be a 
straightforward matter. Meeting the requirements of 
these basic conditions involves optimising the ability of 
materials to store and convert energy from one form 
to another and this is Ilika’s focus in the energy market. 
In particular, Ilika has globally-recognised expertise in 
developing battery materials and materials for use in 
both storing hydrogen and converting it into electricity.
Batteries
Electric and hybrid vehicles have gained market share 
over the past 12 months. For instance, since 1 March 
201 1 the much-heralded Nissan LEAF has been on sale in 
the UK, with the first year’s production allocation already 
sold out. Toyota has been broadening the roll-out of its 
hybrid drive-train concept, building on the success of its 
Prius and Auris ranges. These mass production vehicles 
The forthcoming year will allow 
the Company to demonstrate 
the industrial robustness of some 
of its key products for energy 
conversion and storage, leading 
to commercial roll-out. Financial 
statements
Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
13  Business review
Business 
review Governance Overview
Addressing key unmet    needs
have done much to persuade the motoring public that 
electric and hybrid vehicles are here to stay and they 
have created an appetite for sustained performance 
improvements. For instance, the Nissan LEAF has a range 
of 175km on the New European Driving Cycle and can be 
recharged from empty within 8 hours using the on-board 
charger. This is a good starting point, but clearly this range 
and recharge time will not satisfy the majority of road 
users. The best way to improve battery performance is 
to change the materials from which the battery is made 
and Ilika’s technology can provide unique insights into 
how this can be achieved. Toyota and Ilika have been 
working together since 2008 to improve battery materials 
and current indications are that this effort is set to intensify 
in the coming period. In April 201 1 Ilika announced that it 
had been successful in attracting a second collaboration 
partner for next generation battery development. Ilika has 
every confidence that it will be successful in maintaining 
its commercial momentum in this rapidly moving field.
Hydrogen
Hydrogen has an intrinsic advantage over batteries as 
an energy carrier because hydrogen can be processed 
to yield a higher energy density than is achievable with 
a battery. In other words, hydrogen can contain more 
energy than a battery of the same volume. In addition, 
hydrogen represents an attractive carrier of energy as 
its combustion or direct conversion to electricity via a 
fuel cell does not lead to the emission of carbon dioxide. 
However, hydrogen has not, to date, been as broadly 
adopted as batteries for energy storage. The main 
reasons for this are the difficulty in storing hydrogen, 
which is a light gas under atmospheric conditions, and 
the expense of methods for converting it to electricity.
The main criteria for hydrogen storage for transport 
purposes, as outlined by the US Freedom Car Initiative, 
are to supply enough hydrogen to enable a driving 
range of approximately 500km, charge and recharge at 
near room temperature and provide hydrogen at rates 
fast enough for operation in automobiles.
 Current prototype applications use either very high 
pressure compressed hydrogen (approx. 700 bar) or 
cryogenically cooled liquid hydrogen. These methods 
consume a significant percentage of the energy content 
in their compression and conversion (15 percent and 30 
percent respectively) and both raise safety concerns. 
By contrast, Ilika’s storage solution is a solid metal 
hydride, which exists as a powder stored in a cylinder 
at moderate pressure (10 bar) and is stable at room 
temperature. When warmed to moderate temperatures, 
hydrogen is released for use as fuel. 
The target weight percentage of hydrogen stored in 
such a material for it to be economically viable has been 
set at 6 percent by the US Department of Energy. Current 
commercially-available hydride materials can achieve 
up to 2.3 weight percent of hydrogen. In May 2011 Ilika 
announced a collaboration with Sigma Aldrich to verify 
and scale-up hydride materials that can potentially 
store up to 10 weight percent of hydrogen, reversibly. 
The work with Sigma Aldrich is designed to yield a robust 
and economically viable industrial process for the 
mass production of Ilika’s material. Sigma Aldrich has 
negotiated a licence for commercialising the material, 
driving its initial market adoption. Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
14  Business review
Chief Executive’s 
review continued
Once the challenge of overcoming hydrogen storage is 
met, it can be used directly in a combustion engine to 
provide automotive power. Alternatively, hydrogen lends 
itself to being used as a fuel in fuel cells, which electro-
catalytically convert hydrogen and oxygen to water 
and electricity. The current fuel cells used in automotive 
prototypes use a significant amount of platinum, 
which is a scarce precious metal. In June 2010 Ilika 
announced a collaboration with ITRI in order to further 
develop the cheaper catalyst formulations previously 
patented by Ilika. This product development project 
is being supported by the £173,000 grant awarded 
to Ilika by the Carbon Trust in April 2011. Samples of 
materials are currently being performance tested by an 
independent body, with a view to making them available 
to automotive companies for their assessment within this 
current financial year.
Thermoelectrics
Thermoelectric materials can be used to generate an 
electric current from a thermal gradient. As a result, 
they can be used to convert waste heat into electricity. 
Potential applications include energy recovery from 
the exhaust of a vehicle, perhaps feeding into the 
electrical storage system of a hybrid propulsion system, 
and also waste heat recovery from a generator set, 
increasing its efficiency. In October 2010 Ilika announced 
the award of a thermoelectric project by DSTL, the 
research arm of the UK’s Ministry of Defence (‘MOD’). 
This project is supporting the Company’s endeavours 
in the development of efficient testing methods for 
screening thermoelectric materials and ultimately in the 
development of more efficient materials. After initial early 
adoption for MOD applications, the technology will be 
made available for a broader commercial roll-out.
Electronics
Piezoelectrics
Since November 2009 Ilika has been working together in 
a Joint Development Project with Ceramtec, one of the 
world’s leading manufacturers of functional ceramics. 
Ceramtec’s current product line includes piezoelectric 
devices, which are used for a broad range of sensor and 
actuator applications in the automotive and aerospace 
industries. The most commonly used piezoelectric material 
contains lead in its formulation, which has been banned 
under the EU’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances 
(‘RoHS’) regulations. Those ceramic manufacturers selling 
lead-containing ceramics in the EU are doing so under 
an exemption, pending development of a replacement 
technology. The objective of the collaboration is to 
develop a lead-free piezoelectric. The expectation is that 
adoption of the developed material will be rapid, given 
the regulatory drivers in place.
Capacitors
One of the unique aspects of the technology platform 
used by Ilika is its ability to make a broad range of complex 
oxide structures. These materials are commonly used 
for a wide range of electronic components, including in 
capacitors, which are devices for storing an electronic 
charge in many different industrial and consumer 
electronics applications. This is an expanding area of 
business for Ilika and is expected to be a significant 
contributor to revenue in the current financial year.
The Company has continued to 
attract an international customer 
base resulting in 83 percent of its 
revenues coming from outside 
the UK. Financial 
statements
Ilika plc Annual report 2011 Fast-tracking materials discovery
15  Business review
Business 
review Governance Overview
Biomedical
Ilika operates a wholly-owned subsidiary, Altrika Ltd, which 
commercialises technology for biologically-functional 
medical (biomedical) devices. 
At its facilities, located in Sheffield, UK, Altrika operates 
a high throughput lab for the rapid development of 
biologically active materials as well as a Human Tissue 
Authority (‘HTA’) approved clean room suite for the 
production of its Myskin
®
 and Cryoskin
®
 products. The 
clean room suite is validated to meet Good Manufacturing 
Practice (‘GMP’) requirements. Altrika is fully licenced 
by the HTA for the procurement, testing, processing, 
distribution and storage of human cells. In addition, 
Cryoskin
®
 is licenced as a cell therapy by the Medicines 
and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (‘MHRA’).
Over the past year, Myskin
®
 and Cryoskin
®
 have been 
used to successfully treat burns patients at most of the 
major burns units in the UK. Progress has been made in 
identifying key opinion leaders and distributors to support 
the roll out of these products into new jurisdictions, starting 
in the current financial year.
The $750 million acquisition of Advanced Bio-
healing (‘ABH’) by Shire Pharmaceuticals in May 201 1 
demonstrated the intrinsic appeal of cell therapy in the 
chronic wounds sector.
In June 201 1 Altrika announced the launch of a 
new service (Oristem
®
) with its partners Pharmacells 
and Vindon for the processing of adult blood in order to 
harvest and store adult stem cells. This new service offering 
leverages the existing facilities and licences which Altrika 
has in place for handling human cells. Extensive coverage 
of the launch of the service was published in the Financial 
Times, Mail on Sunday and Sunday Telegraph. Further 
extensions of Altrika’s cell processing activities are planned 
in the forthcoming period.
Growth strategy
In line with the strategy stated this time last year, Ilika has 
deployed additional business development resources in 
the US and Asia. In the US, Ilika appointed the JGW Group 
to represent its interests in acquiring business in the US 
defence industry. In addition, the Company appointed a 
full time business development director based in California. 
In Japan, Ilika has appointed an additional business 
development resource focused on Altrika’s offerings. These 
initiatives have broadened Ilika’s commercial pipeline, 
supporting analyst’s growth forecasts for the coming period.
Summary
Ilika has delivered strong revenue growth in the past  
year and expects this trend to continue in the current 
financial year. Altrika has proven itself to be a dynamic, 
innovative business in the rapidly-moving sector of cell 
therapy. Some recent high profile M&A deals have 
confirmed the intrinsic value of this sector.
Some important milestones have been achieved in 
the scale-up of materials protected by the Company’s IP 
portfolio. The forthcoming year will allow the Company to 
demonstrate the industrial robustness of some of its key 
products for energy conversion and storage, leading to 
commercial roll-out.
Graeme Purdy
Chief Executive
13 July 2011
