 ‘ This year has seen great 
progress in both operational 
and ﬁnancial aspects of the 
business. This progress will 
provide a springboard for 
further commercialisation  
of our product portfolio.’
Graeme Purdy, Chief Executive
A compelling  
enterprise...
Over the last 12 months Ilika has 
continued to build its business of 
developing innovative new materials  
for clean tech applications, particularly 
in the energy and electronics sectors. 
Ilika’s proprietary high throughput 
platform for the rapid development  
of materials is a proven method for  
the rapid innovation of new materials  
and continues to strongly differentiate 
Ilika’s approach from slower,  
traditional methods. 
Although the past year has witnessed 
substantial disruption in some of the 
world’s major economies, Ilika has 
continued to build its business, 
delivering 30 percent turnover growth 
relative to last year. The geographical 
revenue split shows that 79 percent  
of our turnover in the year came from 
Asia, up from 67 percent last year  
and therefore it has been particularly 
important for Ilika to work closely with 
its Japanese customers to understand 
the consequences of the natural 
disasters that affected the region  
in 2011. Due to the strength of its 
relationships in the region, Ilika was able 
to identify areas where it could support 
its partners’ businesses, delivering 
substantial added value and growing  
its own business. 
As economic pressures from stiffening 
global competition continue to mount on 
large multinationals, the market pull for 
improved functional materials to be 
integrated into new product lines is 
stronger than ever. Consumer demand 
for innovative branded products 
developed by our partners remains 
robust, so Ilika’s business strategy of 
collaborating with large multinational 
customers, who are recognised  
as market leaders in their sectors, 
continues to be successful. Ilika  
has a portfolio of about 20 blue-chip 
customers including Asahi Kasei, 
CeramTec, DSTL, Energizer, NXP, Shell, 
Sigma Aldrich, Toshiba and Toyota. 
In addition to increased ﬁnancial 
momentum, Ilika’s second full year  
as a public company has witnessed an 
increase in the Company’s corporate 
proﬁle, a broadening of its client base 
Business review
10  Ilika plc  Annual report 2012
 Chief Executive’s review Our strategy
The Company’s business 
strategy is to use our 
HTT process to discover 
and commercialise novel 
materials for integration 
into products with high 
value end-markets.
>   Developing leading-
edge high throughput 
development processes 
>   Partnering with 
companies committed 
to developing and 
commercialising jointly 
developed products
>   Using high throughput 
processes to invent  
patentable functional 
materials
An array of materials being placed in  
an x-ray diffractometer
and a maturing of its portfolio of 
intellectual property. In April, Ilika was 
recognised by a New Energy Award at an 
event hosted at the Science Museum in 
London. The grant of a patent covering 
Ilika’s core technology platform in the 
US, Japan and Canada was conﬁrmed  
in May.
Energy
The demand for improved batteries, 
particularly for hybrid and electric 
vehicles, has been a major driver of 
growth at Ilika in 2011. In November,  
Ilika announced that it had delivered  
a presentation to the 52nd Battery 
Symposium in Tokyo on work that it  
had been carrying out with Toyota since 
February 2008 on the development  
of solid-state electrolytes, one of the 
most important components of an all 
solid battery. Toyota is interested in 
developing improved batteries for its 
electric and hybrid vehicles. The next 
generation of batteries is targeting 
increased energy density, faster charge 
and recharge times as well as improved 
safety. With their increased thermal 
stability, simple construction, non-
ﬂammable electrolyte and increased 
energy density, solid-state batteries 
meet many of these requirements. 
However, until now, making solid-state 
batteries has posed technical  
challenges including identifying solid 
electrolytes with sufﬁciently high 
ionic conductivities, low electronic 
conductivity, low mechanical stress 
resulting from electrochemical  
cycling and reproducible high yield 
production methods. 
To date, Toyota has invested £2.5 million 
on battery development through Ilika. 
As a result of their joint efforts in  
this ﬁeld, in 2011 Toyota ﬁled patent 
applications jointly-held by Toyota and 
Ilika. Under the terms of their IP sharing 
agreement with Toyota, each party  
has the right to commercialise the  
IP independently, subject to the other 
party’s consent. Toyota and the 
Company have presented summaries  
of this technology at international 
technology symposia in Europe, Japan 
and the US. In the course of these 
presentations, the Company has met 
with representatives from the UK and  
US military who have shown speciﬁc 
interest in applying Ilika’s battery 
technology for their purposes. 
Furthermore, these representatives of 
the UK and US military have conﬁrmed 
that the expected performance of  
Ilika’s battery technology meets the 
development requirements for man-
portable batteries deﬁned by the UK  
and US defence forces.
Estimates of market sizes for 
rechargeable batteries vary quite 
signiﬁcantly (some estimates for the 
market size in 2010 range from $6 billion 
to $36 billion), but indicate that the 
addressable market is far in excess of 
the $1 billion threshold criterion that the 
Company typically seeks in its selected 
target markets. The Company estimates 
the market size for rechargeable batteries 
in the defence sector in 2015 to be 
approximately $2.5 billion. 
Over the next 24 months, Ilika will  
be working closely together with  
its partners to develop its materials 
technology further to the point of a 
prototype battery. This development will 
be accomplished in 3 key phases. During 
Phase I the cell design for the battery 
will be optimised using the Company’s 
existing laboratory facilities. In parallel, 
in cooperation with an equipment 
fabricator, the Company will design the 
device prototyping equipment. In Phase 
II the Company will build the device 
prototyping system and also build a 
multilayer cell architecture (a simple 
battery). Phase III involves the 
production of a limited number of 
prototype batteries using its prototyping 
equipment and conﬁrmation with 
end-customers that the batteries meet 
their requirements. At this point, the 
Company intends to partner with a 
suitable manufacturer to integrate the 
materials into a ﬁnal product and fully 
commercialise the technology. 
In order to support its solid state-battery 
technology programme, Ilika announced 
that it had successfully completed an 
equity placing of £4.9 million in April 
2012, with 60 percent of the funds raised 
coming from new shareholders. 
Annual report 2012  Ilika plc  11 www.ilika.com
BUSINESS
REVIEW
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS An Ilika scientist setting up the control system for 
one of Ilika’s high throughput platforms
Battery technology is currently an 
exciting high growth opportunity, but 
Ilika has continued to progress other 
energy technologies which are expected 
to have a substantial commercial impact. 
In particular, hydrogen is a fuel which 
many analysts continue to support  
inter alia because of the higher energy 
density that can be achieved using 
hydrogen as an energy carrier.  
Ilika has a proprietary position with 2 
technologies that are key to enabling  
the use of hydrogen as a fuel. 
The ﬁrst hydrogen-related technology  
is a material for storing hydrogen as a 
solid compound from which hydrogen 
can be released under controlled 
conditions. In June 2011, Ilika announced 
that it had entered into a collaboration 
with the US speciality chemicals 
company, Sigma Aldrich, to scale-up  
and commercialise Ilika’s material.  
This scale-up collaboration has made 
good progress during 2011, with powder 
samples being prepared that show 
promising hydrogen capacity and 
reversibility. This work is expected  
to continue in 2012.
The second hydrogen-related technology 
is a lower-cost catalyst for use in fuel 
cells. Hydrogen can either be used in  
an internal combustion engine, or in a 
fuel cell. The former option has the 
advantage that existing combustion 
engines can be converted to run on 
hydrogen and therefore there is less of  
a hurdle for technology adoption. The 
latter option achieves a more efﬁcient 
conversion of energy, but is currently 
too expensive for mass market adoption. 
Substantial cost reductions can be 
achieved by reducing fuel cell 
technology’s dependence on platinum  
as a catalyst. Ilika’s fuel cell catalyst 
technology has been shown to achieve 
the same power output for a third of the 
cost of platinum-based technology. 
Ilika’s work in this area has been 
supported to date by the Carbon Trust. 
Full-scale catalyst testing is currently 
under way with an independent fuel cell 
testing organisation in the US and 2012 
is expected to see Ilika providing batches 
of the catalyst to automotive OEMs for 
inclusion in their ongoing technology 
development programmes.
Electronics
From Ilika’s perspective, the electronics 
sector has become increasingly attractive 
over the last year. Projects in the 
electronics sector now account for around 
33 percent of the total turnover (2011: 19 
percent). There are a number of signiﬁcant 
drivers for this trend. The ﬁrst is the  
need for increased energy efﬁciency  
of electronic systems. This efﬁciency is 
requiring improved capacitors, which are 
devices for storing electronic charge in 
many different industrial and consumer 
electronics applications. Ilika’s technology 
is particularly well suited to the 
manufacture of the complex oxide 
materials which are ubiquitously used in 
these devices. The second driver is the 
gradual diversiﬁcation of materials used  
in electronic devices. Traditionally, most 
electronic components were made using 
silicon, but miniaturisation, increased data 
storage density and improved processing 
speeds can be achieved by incorporating 
other elements into system architecture. 
In September 2011 Ilika announced its 
ﬁrst major US electronics collaboration, 
which was the start of a commercial 
effort to replicate the growth story  
Ilika has achieved in Japan with a similar 
strategy in the US. However, Japan 
remains Ilika’s major source of revenue 
in this sector, which is also a result of  
the fact that many of the world’s leading 
electronics companies are based  
there. The addition of Toshiba to Ilika’s 
customer portfolio in January 2012 was 
the latest success in Ilika’s business 
development efforts in Asia.
Biomedical
Ilika operates a wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Altrika Ltd, which commercialises 
technology for biologically-functional 
medical (biomedical) devices. 
At its facilities, located in Shefﬁeld, UK, 
Altrika operates a high throughput 
laboratory for the rapid development  
of novel, biologically active materials.  
It also operates a Human Tissue 
Authority (‘HTA’) approved clean room 
suite for the production of its wound 
care products, Myskin
®
 and Cryoskin
®
.  
The clean room suite is validated to 
meet Good Manufacturing Practice 
(‘GMP’) requirements.
Altrika is fully licensed by the HTA for 
the procurement, testing, processing, 
distribution and storage of human cells. 
In addition, Cryoskin
®
 is licensed as  
a cell therapy by the Medicines and 
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency 
(‘MHRA’). Over the past year, Myskin
®
 
and Cryoskin
®
 have been used to 
successfully treat burns patients at  
most of the major burns units in the UK. 
Progress has been made in working with 
clinicians, distributors and regulatory 
authorities to support the roll-out of 
these products in new jurisdictions.
Business development strategy
In the US the appointment of a full time 
business development resource based  
in California has started to yield results, 
with two substantive commercial 
relationships being established there  
in the last 12 months. Ilika has also 
continued to work with the JGW Group 
to represent its interests in acquiring 
business in the US defence industry. In 
addition, Ilika has reinforced its business 
development efforts in Europe with the 
appointment of a business development 
resource in Germany. Hence, Ilika now 
has direct business development 
professionals, reinforced by specialist 
agencies where appropriate, deployed  
in the 3 most signiﬁcant geographies for 
its business: Japan, US and Germany. 
These initiatives have broadened  
Ilika’s commercial pipeline, supporting 
sustained growth for the coming period.
Graeme Purdy
Chief Executive
18 July 2012
Business review
12  Ilika plc  Annual report 2012
 Chief Executive’s review continued
