 Bill Bailie, an executive director of
Alumasc since May 1989 with
responsibility for a number of the Group’s
operations including its brewery related
activities, retired on 31 August 2003 and 
I thank him on your behalf for his
contribution to the company over the 
past 14 years.
Prospects
The consensus forecast for manufacturing
in the UK remains at best flat for the
remainder of 2003. The stronger euro -
some 10 per cent higher against sterling
at the end of the last financial year
compared with the start - could help to
boost demand, but probably not before
2004.
In the construction market, the outlook 
for house-building is uncertain with
underlying demand somewhat tempered
by the surge in house prices. Public
spending, in contrast, is growing strongly.
On balance, we anticipate another year of
tight market conditions in which further
advances will depend largely on our own
actions and continued attention to detail.
J S McCall
Chairman
Summary
2003 was a year of solid achievement 
for Alumasc, against the background of
major events internal and external to 
the company.
Our continuing activities grew turnover 
by 6.2%, following similar advances in 
the previous year. Profit before tax and
earnings per share were ahead on a
similar basis, by 21% and 23%
respectively, and exceeded those for the
Group as a whole in the previous year.
These results were achieved despite
absorbing sharply higher pension and
insurance costs and the closure of the
beer barrel activity which was for so many
years a major contributor to Group profits.
Both our engineering and building product
divisions contributed to this advance.
There was further strengthening of the
Group’s balance sheet, underwriting our
ability to pursue opportunities for
development, with positive cash balances
reported at the year end.
Dividend
This performance has led your directors
to recommend an increase in the final
dividend per share of 0.25p to 6.3p
(2002: 6.05p), an increase of 4%, making
a total of 8.75p for the year (2002: 8.5p)
an increase of 3%. In the Board’s view,
this will result in an excessive weighting 
in favour of the final dividend payment.
Accordingly, it is the Board’s intention to
rebalance the dividend payments less
heavily towards the final payment,
commencing with the next interim
payment. Further details will be announced
at the time of the next interim results.
Strategy
The present business environment of low
inflation and lower economic growth
presents challenges to well-established
businesses such as ours. Our strategy for
continuing the advances of recent years is
to take advantage of our strong market
positions through increased sales activity
and product development. The Group 
has the resources with which to pursue
product innovation and acquisitions in
pursuit of this strategy.
Board
As announced in our interim report, Paul
Hooper, who joined Alumasc in April 2001
as Group Managing Director, was
appointed Chief Executive on 1 March
2003.
Chairman’s Statement
2 The Alumasc Group plc
The Group has the resources 
with which to pursue product
innovation and acquisitions
