 The Group finished the year with net cash
of £1.5 million versus £1.9 million net
borrowings in the prior year.
The strong final quarter of the year has
helped several companies, particularly in
the Building Products Division, to enter
the new financial year with healthy order
books.
During the year, the Group closed
Alumasc Grundy, the beer barrel
manufacturing and repair operation,
following a downturn in business which
resulted from permanent changes in the
UK brewing industry. The costs of £0.9
million for this closure, excluding goodwill,
accounted for under discontinued
activities, are in line with the estimate
given in the December 2002
announcement. The operation’s 10 acre
site in Burton-upon-Trent is being
marketed. Leonardo Internet, the 70%
owned web design company, also formed
part of discontinued activities. Its sale was
in keeping with the Group’s focus on
premium engineering and building
products.
I am very pleased to report a further
improvement in the Group’s operations
during the year. Both Engineering
Products and Building Products improved
upon the performance of continuing
activities against the prior year. This
resulted in an operating profit of £7.7
million, an increase of £0.9 million (14%),
from continuing activities on turnover of
£117.4 million (2002 : £110.5 million).
The 6.2% sales increase for the Group’s
continuing activities contributed to the
improved result. Both divisions’ sales
went ahead. At the same time costs in
several areas were reduced. For example,
year end headcount was on continuing
activities 7% lower than at the prior year
end and, when combined with other cost
reduction measures, helped to offset
some of the £1.0 million increased costs
in insurance, National Insurance and
pensions. The total gross margin
improved by 0.3%.
An improvement in the utilisation of assets
coupled with tight control on capital
investment led to reduced expenditure 
in the year. A focus on working capital
helped to reduce stocks, although the
overall working capital moved ahead of
the prior year due to the strong final
quarter sales which lifted the debtor
figures. The cash performance was
helped by a £1.0 million land sale. 
3 The Alumasc Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
Both divisions improved upon 
the performance of continuing
activities against the prior year The Engineering Products Division
(continuing activities) increased its profit
by £1.0 million (36%) to £4.0 million on
sales of £81.3 million, £5.6 million (7%)
ahead of the prior year.
Alumasc Precision Components
Despite a £0.5 million sales reduction to
£37.4 million, associated primarily with a
softening in demand from the more
established automotive customer
accounts, operating profit of £1.7 million
grew slightly against the prior year. 
Within the automotive area, BMW has
been a highlight with strong sales of the
Mini Cooper S resulting in increased
component demand.
Several new projects commenced outside
the automotive area including the supply
of cast and machined components to
Caterpillar in North America and Europe.
As with many project start-ups, there
were initial cost overruns. However, costs
fell into line by the year end. Additional
business with Philips and Orangebox, the
manufacturer of office chairs, added to
development outside the automotive area.
Filtronic raised its demand for the high
specification components supplied by the
Precision Component businesses. These
businesses slimmed down their employee
numbers as a result of improved layouts,
efficiency initiatives and changed sales
profiles.
Although affected by some softening 
of demand, Copal went through a
restructuring which substantially improved
its performance versus the prior year. This
helped to offset some of the costs
associated with new project start-ups
across the division. Dyson did well to
increase its sales whilst simultaneously
reducing its overhead costs.
It is pleasing to report that both Alumasc
Precision Components and Dyson
achieved the ISO 14001 environmental
accreditation during the year. Copal is in
the process of applying for this
accreditation.
The Precision Component businesses will
continue to develop into non-automotive
markets and, as an example of this, the
German diesel engine manufacturer,
Deutz, promises to become quite a
significant new customer in the next
financial year.
Industrial Products
The ongoing Industrial Products
companies increased their profit by £1.0
million (87%) to £2.3 million on sales
which increased by £6.1 million (16%) to
£43.9 million.
Alumasc Dispense had an outstanding
year with significant sales being made of
Carlsberg, Kronenbourg and Heineken
branded dispense products, in particular.
The Tap business also grew and
decorated glass had a record year.
Brock Metal maintained a good
performance. Sales tonnages of both
aluminium and zinc grew. However,
margins were tighter than the prior year.
There was some benefit from the sale of a
better mix of high grade aluminum alloys
and the reduction in alloy capacity
following the closure of competitors.
Export sales were also developed.
Bissell continued to restructure its
business and improved its performance,
despite a difficult economic background,
particularly in Continental Europe.
Chief Executive’s Review
Engineering Products
4 The Alumasc Group plc
Alumasc Dispense is industry leader providing
innovative dispense solutions most recently for
Heineken, Scottish Courage, Coors and
Carlsberg.
Right: Electronic components supplied by
Alumasc Precision to Filtronic present the
challenge of design to production in as short
time as possible to maximise market
opportunities.
Turnover 
£m
Engineering Products Division
(continuing activities only)
01 02 03
70.2
75.7
81.3
Operating 
profit 
£m
01 02 03
2.9
3.0
4.0 Precision Components
will continue to develop
into non-automotive
markets
5 The Alumasc Group plc
The close working relationship between
Perkins and Alumasc Precision has now
been extended to its North American
parent - Caterpillar Engines Division. Chief Executive’s Review
Building Products
6 The Alumasc Group plc
The Building Products Division increased
its profit by £0.4 million (10%) to £4.0
million on sales which were £1.3 million
(4%) ahead of the prior year at £36.1
million.
Alumasc Exterior Building Products
Alumasc Exterior Building Products grew
its sales whilst simultaneously achieving
productivity improvements, in part due to
investment in new production equipment.
In particular, the company was successful
in growing its Alumasc and Harmer
Rainwater and Drainage sales along with
its MR social housing walling range. Sales
in the final quarter were particularly good
and a highlight during that period was the
strength of the Roofing Product orders
and sales.
The company will continue to build on its
customer service improvements. It enters
the next financial year with a healthy order
book and there are some signs that the
Government funded improvements in
social housing will accelerate, to the likely
benefit of MR walling sales.
Alumasc Interior Building Products
Alumasc Interior Building Products fell
short of its record results of the prior year.
Nevertheless, its performance was still
satisfactory. Sales were affected
principally by the non-repetition of major
radiator guard projects in the previous
year. Elsewhere, an expanded range of
Pendock-brand column casings, launched
during the year, became established. A
‘state of the art’ website to assist
designers continued to support this
company.
Next year will encompass some quite
ambitious new product launch plans
backed by creative marketing campaigns
which will further develop the established
Pendock range.
Alumasc Construction Products
Elkington Gatic had an outstanding year.
Its strategic plans became a reality in
which, for instance, the Gatic Slotdrain
product successfully widened its market
outside of airports. Assisted by good
productivity and a re-engineered product,
the future looks promising for this range.
Several national supermarkets and a
major oil company are either specifying or
evaluating Gatic Slotdrain for supermarket
car parks and petrol station forecourts.
Export sales of Gatic airport products more
than offset some UK weakness. Significant
contracts were won in the Bahamas,
Bangkok and Singapore. Overall the
business moved ahead strongly, driven by
improved sales and good manufacturing
efficiency improvements.
Elkington China, despite a depressed
Hong Kong economy and the impact of
SARS, grew its sales and reduced costs.
Sales continued for Hong Kong’s Terminal
9 Container Project. In the circumstances,
this company’s result was commendable.
Scaffold and Construction Products 
had a very busy year which included a
relocation of its operation and its
reinvention as a sourcing and marketing
company. During such a potentially
disruptive period, it significantly grew its
sales and reduced its cost base resulting
in an excellent performance. 
Prospects
Across both divisions there continue to be
opportunities to build on the significant
performance improvements that have
taken place in the last two years.
Initiatives will include the targeting of
further productivity improvements in all
businesses. The Group will continue to
invest in sales and marketing resources 
to drive the businesses forward. Whilst
actions taken in the last year have helped
to limit insurance cost increases for the
current year, such increases are still way
ahead of inflation. When combined with
the full year effect of National Insurance
and further pension cost increases, as
with many other companies, the Group
will need to work hard to offset such
costs to continue the forward momentum. 
The Group has increased its profit and
controlled its cash well resulting in a
positive net cash position at the year end.
There is a serious intent to use such
funds to speed up the expansion of the
Building Products Division through bolt-
on acquisitions. To date the Group has
looked at several opportunities. However,
these have been owned by vendors with
unrealistic price aspirations. The search
will continue into the next year to make
acquisitions to benefit from the
operational gearing that should accrue
from the Group’s established brand,
marketing and technical support
strengths, along with its well established
distribution channels.
The future is challenging and exciting. 
The Group remains in a strong position 
to move further forward.
G P Hooper
Chief Executive
9 September, 2003
Alumasc’s Zinco garden roof system and
Hydrotech waterproofing were specified for 
No 1 Poultry, London. 
Right: Pendock column casings create the right
lines for the Nottingham Porsche dealership.
Turnover 
£m
Building Products Division
01 02 03
33.4
34.8
36.1
Operating 
profit 
£m
01 02 03
1.7
3.6
4.0 7 The Alumasc Group plc
Several national
supermarkets and a
major oil company are
specifying or evaluating
Gatic Slotdrain 
The More London project is a prestigious
urban landscaping development. Gatic
Slotdrain provides the system for surface
water drainage that is both efficient 
and discreet.
