 FRS 15 and arises as management has
deemed that this development work is
unlikely to generate future cash flows.
We remain convinced of the future
of Icon and in December 2003 we
completed a 5% placing of shares
with institutional investors to complete
the development of the Icon technology
ahead of schedule. This technology
will help to deliver the sales growth
planned in Imagelinx and will be a key
differentiator over our competitors.
The Board has changed substantially
over the year. In January 2003, Michael
Williamson joined the Board as Finance
Director replacing Nick Hunter. In March
2003, Gregor Wedell joined the Board as
a Non-executive Director. In December
2003 and January 2004 Dr Thomas
Fischer and Byron Ousey resigned as
Non-executive Directors. In January 2004
Udo Bange resigned as Chief Executive
of the Imagelinx division. On behalf of
the Board I would like to thank all the
Directors, who have left the Group or
have changed their responsibilities, for
their tremendous efforts and welcome
to the Board the new Directors.
In September 2003 the Company moved
from a full listing on the London Stock
Exchange to a listing on the Alternative
Investment Market (“AIM”). The Board
see this listing as being more appropriate
for a Group of this size and believe
it will reduce costs for the Group. 
It remains for me to express my
personal gratitude to my colleagues
and to the shareholders for their help
and support in 2003. The continued
support of all involved is vital for the
Group’s success for 2004 and beyond.
David Straker-Smith
Chairman
11 March 2004
LTG Technologies PLC
Report and Accounts 2003
2
Chairman’s  statement
Chairman’s
statement
David Straker-Smith Chairman
2003 has been a year of progress for
LTG Technologies PLC with the Group
making key advances in consolidating
its competitive position, despite a
background of global uncertainty.
Imagelinx has continued to grow sales
and has reduced its cost base, following
expansion during the previous two
years. LTG Mailänder has returned
to profitability, helped by the
restructuring of the previous years,
while further operational improvements
continue to be made.
Group losses in 2003 were lower at the
pre-tax level at £10.6m against £18.6m
in 2002. Importantly, the operating
losses before operating exceptional items
and goodwill were reduced to £2.9m
versus £8.4m in 2002. The improvement
is due to the sales growth in both
divisions and substantial cost reductions
in the Imagelinx division, whilst retaining
the infrastructure to support growth
and unlock the potential value. 
Group sales were £58.8m in 2003
versus £57.9m for 2002. In March 2003,
we completed the disposal of our
Crabtree business to its management
for £2.2m, to focus on the Imagelinx
and LTG Mailänder businesses.
Adjusted for the sales of Crabtree, sales
of continuing operations were £57.3m
compared with £48.2m; an impressive
growth rate of 19%. In part, this was
due to the effect of changes in exchange
rates, with Imagelinx’s Sterling sales
being negatively affected by the weak
Dollar and the reverse being the case
for LTG Mailänder due to the strong
Euro. Adjusted for exchange rate
changes, sales growth was still very
creditable at 10%.
LTG Mailänder performed well in
2003 with a return to clear profitability,
experiencing continued strong demand
for its conventional equipment and
completing large orders for the new
technology. Sales grew 19% to £49m
(9% at constant exchange rates). This
division is now focussing on further
efficiency improvements and product
launches to generate greater profitability.
Imagelinx continued to capture
prestigious new clients – many are
household names – and reduced its
cost base for the first time in three years.
The years of high expansion costs are
now over – costs and sales are being
aligned. Sales were at £8.1m, a rise
of 10%. However, approximately 50%
of Imagelinx’s sales are in US Dollars.
Excluding the effect of the Dollar
weakness, underlying growth was
a strong 16%. This growth was despite
reduced volumes from its existing
customers, mainly due to the general
caution consumer goods companies
were displaying in incurring
marketing expenses. 
Icon, Imagelinx’s integrated IT system,
is a key part of the future for its services.
We believe we have created exciting
IT systems for Imagelinx and intend to
make them operational during this year.
As part of Imagelinx’s cost reduction
efforts and to bring it to profit more
quickly, we have chosen more cost
effective methods of completing the Icon
system. As we have also taken a cautious
view of IT investments, we have written
down the book value of these systems
by £5.6m. This is in accordance with
2003 has been a year of progress with the
Group making key advances in consolidating
its competitive position.
