 Chief Executive’s Review
4 The Alumasc Group plc
Overview
I am very pleased to report a third consecutive year of improvement 
in the Group's operations during 2004. In particular, the two core
activities of Precision Components and Building Products moved their
operating profit ahead strongly. The overall result from continuing
activities was an operating profit of £8.2 million, an increase of £0.5
million (7%) on turnover of £115.3 million (2003: £117.4 million).
Our Building Products division achieved significant organic sales
increases, as a result of increased sales and marketing activity
combined with launches into new markets. The Industrial Products
companies experienced reduced sales due to fewer countermount
projects at Alumasc Dispense, and weaker markets combined with fierce
competition faced by Brock and Bissell. Whilst Alumasc Precision
moved its sales of complex components and assemblies forwards, this
was offset by reductions in its gravity casting business. The net effect 
of these movements was a small reduction in the Group’s turnover for
the year.
Costs in several areas, especially in manufacturing, benefited from
efficiency improvements. This was particularly evident in the second
half year. Across the Group, the year end headcount had reduced by 8%
(7% in the prior year). 
A keen focus on the utilisation of assets led to a tight control on 
capital expenditure in the year, which came in £1.2 million below 
the depreciation charge. Trade working capital was well controlled. 
The Group finished the year with net cash of £3.3 million versus 
£1.5 million in the prior year. 
The strong final quarter of the year gives encouragement for the current
financial year. 
Development
In line with the Group's stated plan to grow through both organic 
and acquisition growth, two building products companies have been
acquired since the year end. Roof-Pro Limited, acquired in July 2004,
manufactures and supplies support systems for equipment and services
located on roofs such as chillers, air conditioning plant and pipelines.
These systems are specified by Mechanical and Electrical (M&E)
engineers for new and refurbishment construction contracts and 
provide cost-saving flexibility in roof maintenance and repair. 
Roof-Pro's activities will fit closely with those of Alumasc Exterior
Building Products (AEBP). Whilst Roof-Pro may be expected to benefit
from AEBP's wide contacts in the UK construction industry, it will in turn
provide AEBP with an entrée into the growing M&E sector. The purchase
price was £3.0 million, excluding cash acquired, and it generated 
£0.7 million pre-tax operating profit in the year to December 2003.  5 The Alumasc Group plc
Timloc Building Products Limited was acquired in early September
2004. Timloc manufactures and supplies a range of products to the UK
house building market, including cavity trays, roof and wall ventilation
products and loft access doors with a significant market position 
in each product range. Products are sold principally to builders'
merchants and distributors for use in the construction of new houses.
This acquisition increases Alumasc Building Products’ activities in the
house building sector and by the builders' merchant route. The house
building sector is a relatively minor channel for Alumasc’s existing
activities and the Board views it as a significant opportunity for
expansion where the familiar characteristics of high performance,
service and technical support are present. Timloc matches these criteria
and should benefit in turn from Alumasc’s existing strengths in the
marketing of specification building products.
The purchase price was £3.25 million and Timloc generated £0.5 million
pre tax operating profit in the year to December 2003. 
Both acquisitions should be immediately earnings enhancing for 
the Group.
Prospects
The Group will continue to invest in sales and marketing resources to
drive sales forward. New products will be launched and new markets
will be sought for the Group's established products. Manufacturing
efficiency gains are still a focus and, to that end, there has been an
increasing use of Six Sigma techniques to further help measure,
analyse, improve and control processes in the Precision Components
businesses. To date the Group has had some success in passing on
increased raw material costs, relevant mainly to steel and cast iron
products. Concern exists for the impact on energy costs currently
emanating from high oil prices.
Following the acquisition of Roof-Pro Limited and Timloc Building
Products Limited after the year end, there will continue to be a focus on
using the Group's strong financial position to expand the Building
Products Division through further add-on acquisitions. In addition,
there are a number of significant new projects for Alumasc Precision
which will require investment to increase capacity.
The marketplaces in which the Group's businesses operate require
management's proactive approach to ensure that the Group's three year
record of profit growth is maintained. 
G P Hooper
Chief Executive
I am very pleased to report a 
third consecutive year of improvement 
in the Group’s operations Precision Components
Although sales reduced by £0.6 million to £36.8 million, added value,
an equally important measurement of activity levels, grew in absolute
terms and in proportion to sales. Operating profit grew by £0.9 million
(53%) to £2.7 million.
Within the automotive area there was a softening in demand from the
more established customers. However, BMW continued as a highlight,
with strong sales of the Mini Cooper S resulting in increased
component demand. Volumes also ramped up for Saab in Sweden
following a new engine launch.
Outside the automotive area, sales to Caterpillar and Garrett Thermal
Systems grew. New customers Deutz and Mercury Marine (through
Garrett Thermal Systems) were welcomed and volumes began to uplift
in the second half year. These customers match the declared strategy to
develop into non-automotive markets. The size of such customers also
gives future opportunities, especially once good supplier track records
have been established. Increased business with Philips and Orangebox,
the manufacturer of office chairs, further strengthened the non-
automotive development. 
Alumasc Precision grew sales and improved its manufacturing
efficiencies. Overhead recoveries were enhanced by a headcount which
ended the year 13% lower than the prior year end. Copal went through 
a further restructuring process which produced a headcount 21% lower
at the year end. In the final quarter of the year, its performance was
greatly improved. Dyson performed well, improving its return on
relatively flat sales. 
Overall, Precision Components had an encouraging year. Further 
project launches next year will build on this business’s success in
distinguishing itself by focusing on complex, high added value work.
Industrial Products
The Industrial Products companies had sales of £38.0 million, a
reduction of £5.8 million, compared to last year’s continuing activities,
mainly accounted for by Alumasc Dispense. Profit reduced by £1.5
million (67%) to £0.7 million.
Following last year's record performance at Alumasc Dispense, there
was a general slowdown in project activity, albeit several countermount
projects were won such as ScotCo Foster’s 'Super Chilled', Carlsberg’s
'Extra Cold' and Holsten. Business development continues with many
international and regional brewers.
Brock Metal had a challenging year, with market demand being affected
by a softening in the UK demand for zinc, partly a reflection of a reduction
in the size of the UK customer base. At the same time, market prices
were driven down by competitive pressures. Export sales were
developed. Aluminium profits were negatively affected by increased
prices for scrap aluminium feed, driven by demand from China. Towards
the year end, however, aluminium alloy manufacturing capacity reduced
in the UK. This should help Brock in the current financial year.
Bissell had a difficult year, with its performance being impacted by
demand fluctuations in the UK and mainland Europe, compounded by
steel cost increases and low market sales prices.
Chief Executive’s Review
Engineering Products
6 The Alumasc Group plc
Turnover 
£m
Industrial Products
(continuing activities only)
01 02 03
38.2
37.8
43.8
Operating profit 
£m
01 02 03
0.6
1.2
2.2
04
38.0
04
0.7
Turnover 
£m
Precision Components
01 02 03
32.0
37.9
37.4
Operating profit 
£m
01 02 03
2.3
1.7 1.7
04
36.8
04
2.7 Following a four year collaboration between Mercury
Marine and Garrett Thermal Systems, Alumasc
Precision is supplying components for the new
generation charge-air cooler and integrated oil cooling
system of the 6 cylinder supercharged engine, 'the
most sophisticated marine propulsion unit in history'.
7 The Alumasc Group plc
Further project launches will build on
Precision Components’ success with
complex, high added value components
The new and innovative Fosters
‘Super Chilled’ condensation font
was developed by Alumasc
Dispense for Scottish Courage to
meet the growing UK requirement
for extra cold lager.
The growing relationship between German
diesel engine manufacturer Deutz and
Alumasc Precision is based on the exacting
standards demanded by each partner.
Projects under development provide further
opportunities for precision assemblies. Chief Executive’s Review
Building Products
8 The Alumasc Group plc
Building Products
The Building Products Division increased its profit by £1.0 million
(24%) to £5.0 million on sales which were £4.3 million (12%) ahead 
of the previous year at £40.4 million.
Alumasc Exterior Building Products
Alumasc Exterior Building Products grew its sales through a further
investment in sales and marketing. All brands moved ahead of the prior
year. In particular, Harmer engineered drainage systems had a good
year, driven by project wins. A highlight was the contract award for the
Coventry Walsgrave Hospital. Sales in the final quarter were particularly
good across all brands. The increased sales were the primary driver to
increase AEBP's operating profit.
Continued investment in sales and marketing, new product development
and the recently acquired Roof-Pro should help to drive this business
forwards. Further investment in PFI projects, a new preferred supplier
status for Alumasc Rainwater, and increased MR Walling brand sales, 
as the refurbishment of social housing stock gathers pace under the
Government’s Decent Homes initiative, will also help.
Alumasc Interior Building Products
Alumasc Interior Building Products had a good performance in the UK
resulting in sales moving well ahead of the prior year. This was mainly
driven by the success of the penetration into builders merchants, with
81 stocking branches in place at the year end. The roll-out into
mainland Europe has, however, taken longer than expected to become
established. Continuing negotiations with several large distribution
channels could result in a greatly improved performance.
In the current year, a focus will be maintained on sales into Europe as
well as building on the success of last year's UK strategy. This will
involve the further development of UK merchants combined with the
targeting of specific UK markets. An increasing investment in sales and
marketing will continue in support of the above.
Alumasc Construction Products
Elkington Gatic had another outstanding and record year for sales and
profit. The Company’s access and drainage products had significant sales
increases in both established and new markets. Within the UK, there was
an increased level of airport activity for both commercial and military
establishments. This was driven by airport expansion (such as Terminal 5
at Heathrow) and maintenance replacement work. Export sales also held
up well, especially in Germany, the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia.
The Gatic Slotdrain product continued its roll-out into supermarket car
parks, retail parks and petrol station forecourts. Recent notable successes
have been with Total and BP (at Stansted Airport). National UK stockist
distribution has been established for Gatic Slotdrain which will build on
the momentum gained for this fast growing product. Another highlight
was the agreement reached with Saint Gobain to distribute Gatic
engineered access covers on the Continent. Further manufacturing
efficiencies were generated during the year, partly driven by increased
sales volumes. To complete a very successful year, Elkington Gatic
achieved the Environmental Standard ISO 14001.
Elkington China performed well in a depressed market. It remained in
profit by tailoring its cost structure to the revenues achieved. Sales
continued for the Hong Kong Terminal 9 Container Project.
Scaffold & Construction Products also had a record year, for both sales
and operating profit. SCP's fast customer response business model has
been a success and further products will be sought to market through its
distribution channel.
While raw material cost increases became a factor in the second half
year, ACP has been broadly successful in passing these on. A further
investment in sales and marketing along with a planned expansion into
new geographical markets should continue the momentum into the
current year.
Turnover 
£m
Building Products 
01 02 03
33.4
34.8
36.1
Operating profit 
£m
01 02 03
1.7
3.6
4.0
04
40.4
04
5.0 9 The Alumasc Group plc
Continued investment in sales and
marketing, product development and
acquisitions will drive the business forward
The MR Swistherm External Wall Insulation
system has once again been chosen for an award-
winning urban renewal project: the transformation of
a redundant 1970’s building into affordable housing
and a business centre next to the River Thames.
2003 saw the completion of the first
new Benedictine monastery in Ireland
for more than 800 years. The challenge
of combining functionality and aesthetics
was met with Pendock column casings.
Gatic Slotdrain is an innovative and
cost-effective solution to water run-off
problems on garage forecourts,
providing an unobtrusive and durable
drainage system. Fast installation also
reduces costs.
