 Chairman’s Statement
2 The Alumasc Group plc
Overview
2004 was a good year for Alumasc, particularly in our two principal
activities – precision engineering and specification building products.
The Group’s pre-tax profits of £8.9 million (2003: £7.8 million on
continuing activities) were ahead of the previous year by £1.1 million.
Both years benefited from profits on the sale of land, and the increase
before such profits was £0.6 million or 8.0%. Within the overall
improvement, the core precision engineering and building products
divisions grew operating profit by £1.9 million, a 33% improvement on
the previous year. This excellent result was achieved by a combination
of increasing the sales of new products in both divisions, and improving
the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Profit margins improved
as a result. Our industrial products activities performed less well, with
market conditions significantly weaker than in the previous year.
Earnings per share of 18.6p were 18.5% ahead of the previous year.
Excluding the profits from the sale of land, earnings per share of 16.1p
were 8.8% ahead.
The Group’s balance sheet continued to strengthen, with net cash of
£3.3 million at the year end, up from £1.5 million a year earlier.
Dividends
In keeping with its policy to grow dividends in line with earnings, the
Board is recommending an increase in the total dividend per share for
the year from 8.75p to 9.3p, equal to 0.55p or 6.3%. Following the
rebalancing between interim and final payments which occurred during
the year with an increase in the interim dividend per share from 2.45p to
3.0p, this equates to a recommended final dividend per share of 6.3p
(2003: 6.3p).
Strategy and Development
The Board’s determination to take advantage of the Group’s strong
market positions through increased sales activity, product development
and add-on acquisitions bore fruit in the year with the growth in
building products sales and an increasing contribution from the sale of
new products.
Since the year end, in furtherance of this strategy, Alumasc acquired two
building products companies. Roof-Pro Limited was acquired on 31 July
2004 for £3.0 million net of acquired cash. Roof-Pro manufactures and
supplies support systems for equipment and services located on roofs,
and will fit closely alongside the roofing products activities of Alumasc
Exterior Building Products.  3 The Alumasc Group plc
Timloc Building Products Limited was acquired on 6 September 2004
for £3.25 million. Timloc manufactures and supplies cavity trays,
ventilation products and loft access doors to the UK house building
market. The Board views this sector as offering significant opportunities
for expansion where the familiar characteristics of high performance,
service and technical support are present.
Financing these acquisitions was well within the Group’s existing financial
resources. I formally welcome Roof-Pro and Timloc to our Group.
Following the closure of the Group’s beer barrel activity in Burton-upon-
Trent during the previous year, contracts were exchanged for the sale of
the 10 acre freehold site for £2.1 million in June 2004. This gave rise to
a profit in the year of £0.8 million, in line with expectations at the time
of closure, and the transaction was completed on 28 July 2004.
As a result of its strong performance in the past year, assisted by the sale
of surplus land, our Group continues to have ample resources with which
to pursue its strategy of product innovation and related acquisitions.
Prospects
I spoke a year ago of our belief that the prospects for the coming year
were dependent largely on our own actions in the light of tight market
conditions. This is a fair description of the outcome and I hesitate from
drawing a significantly different picture one year later. Upward pressure
on external costs continues, particularly in the case of energy. However,
Alumasc has made real progress in the past three years, which gives us
confidence in our ability to grow in those areas where we have genuine
and demonstrable skills and strength.
J S McCall
Chairman
The Group has ample resources 
with which to pursue product 
innovation and related acquisitions
