 3
Chief Executive’s 
Review
Overall the Group has maintained 
its momentum and performed very 
well during the year and is now in a 
fundamentally stronger position. 
The full year saw excellent ﬁnancial and 
strategic progress for the Technology 
business, with a very active period of 
licensing and strong royalty revenue 
growth. The Group successfully closed 
a number of important licensing deals 
and secured many new partners.
The unit volume shipment was 
at the higher end of expectations 
demonstrating the strength and 
growing diversity of the SoC design 
wins. These resulted in a signiﬁcant 
jump in operating proﬁt for the 
Technology business. Our technologies 
continue to be in demand with an 
active pipeline of prospects. The 
extensive design wins achieved are a 
clear indication of generally broader 
and deeper engagements both across 
customers and the Group’s IP families. 
As expected, the Pure business 
continued to be held back during 
the period by the general economic 
pressure on consumer spending 
particularly in the UK. However, this 
was offset by strong momentum and 
growth in its international business, 
which showed more than 50% year-
on-year growth resulting in the division 
showing marginal revenue growth in a 
difﬁcult economic environment. 
Financial Review 
Group revenues for the period ending 
30 April 2012 increased by 30% to 
£127.5m (2011: £98.0m).
The strong growth from both royalties 
and licensing increased Technology 
revenues by 41% to £98.2m  
(2011: £69.8m).
Royalty revenue increased by 55% to 
£63.8m (2011: £41.3m). Partners’ chip 
shipments increased by 33% to 325m 
units as more of our customers started 
shipping devices (2011: 245m).
The average royalty rate strengthened 
in the period due to phasing out of 
legacy royalty share agreements, 
shipment of devices incorporating more 
of our IP in each chip and chips with 
newer generation IP starting to ship.
Strong demand for our technologies 
resulted in a 21% increase in licensing 
revenue to £34.4m (2011: £28.5m). 
The licensing activity was strong as 
we built deeper relationships with 
existing customers and established 
relationships with signiﬁcant new  
and diverse range of customers,  
across the full range of IP developed  
by Imagination.
For Pure, the strong growth in overseas 
markets helped offset the impact of 
the tough UK market and resulted in 
growth in revenue to £29.3m (2011: 
£28.3m). 36% of Pure’s revenue came 
from the strongly growing international 
markets.
Driven by the strong progress in the 
very high margin Technology business, 
Group gross proﬁt was up 38% to 
£106.5m (2011: £77.3m), with overall 
gross margin up to 84% (2011: 79%).
Underlying Group operating expenses 
increased to £69.8m (2011: £53.4m). 
Underlying expenses excluded non-
cash share-based incentives charge 
of £10.3m (2011: £5.9m), amortisation 
of intangibles £2.7m (2011: £0.9m), 
a credit on the revaluation of deferred 
consideration of £4.0m (2011: £nil), 
and a gain on investments of £0.7m 
(2011: £nil). The operating expenses 
included £7.9m of HelloSoft and 
Caustic expenses (2011: £2.2m). The 
remaining year on year increase of 21% 
represents the investments made in 
the underlying business in customer 
support / infrastructure reﬂecting the 
rapid growth in the licensee base.
Adjusted operating proﬁt* for the 
Technology business increased 48% 
to £39.6m (2011: £26.7m) driven by 
the very strong increase in royalty 
Financial and Business Review  4
revenues. The adjusted net operating 
margin for the Technology business 
increased to 40% (2011: 38%).
The difﬁcult trading conditions have 
resulted in Pure recording an adjusted 
operating loss* of £2.9m (2011:  
loss £2.8m).
The Group’s adjusted pre-tax proﬁt* 
increased by 53% to £36.8m (2011: 
£24.0m). The reported pre-tax  
proﬁt was up 74% to £28.5m  
(2011: £16.4m).
The net tax charge was £8.1m 
(2011: credit £2.9m) although due 
to the deferred tax asset there were 
no UK corporation tax payments in 
the period. Due to the proﬁts made 
in the year, the deferred tax asset 
on the Group balance sheet to be 
utilized against future UK proﬁts has 
reduced to £18.8m (2011: £24.9m). 
UK corporation tax payments will only 
commence once the deferred tax 
assets have been utilized.
The Group’s adjusted earnings 
per share* was 11.0p (2011: 7.9p 
assuming a normalised tax rate of 
26%). The Group’s reported earnings 
per share increased to 7.9p  
(2011: 7.7p).
Capital expenditure was £12.3m (2011: 
£13.5m) with the primary element being 
the re-development of the Group’s 
property facilities in Kings Langley.
There was a substantial increase in 
operating cash in-ﬂow in the year to 
£29.1m (2011: £19.2m) generated 
from the strong increase in Group 
operating proﬁt. This has led to net 
cash resources increasing to £66.3m 
(2011: £49.4m).
Technology Business
During the year the Technology 
business continued to make signiﬁcant 
progress in its three key metrics:
 New licensing deals, which generate 
short-term revenue and represent a 
key measure for general technology 
adoption  
 Partner chip volume ramp-up, which 
drives royalty revenues
 Growth of SoC design wins, 
which are indicative of technology 
deployment and the underlying 
drivers behind future royalty 
generation 
Licensing
The active and strengthening 
pipeline of opportunities led to a 
number of strategically and ﬁnancially 
signiﬁcant licensing agreements or 
deal extensions involving around 30 
customers and just under 50 major IP 
licenses as well as a number of smaller 
deals and upgrades.
Among the important agreements, 
there were new partner deals with 
Actions Semiconductor, Allwinner, 
Compound Photonics, HiSilicon, 
Huawei, Ingenic, MStar, Qualcomm, 
Ricoh, Rockchip and ZTE as well as 
signiﬁcant new licenses or extensions 
with existing partners including CSR, 
Frontier Silicon, Intel, MediaTek, 
Realtek, Renesas, Samsung, Sigma, 
Sony, ST, ST-Ericsson, Sunplus, 
Toumaz and others. 
The target markets for these include 
mobile phone, TV/STB, PMP, tablets/
mobile computing, in-car navigation/
dashboard and industrial/enterprise 
equipment. 
Graphics – The Group has continued 
to see accelerating momentum in 
design-wins for its PowerVR graphics 
technology, which has so far achieved 
over 120 licenses, including many 
partners that are working on designs 
using the multi-processing (MP) core 
variants of the Series5XT family. Over 
100 devices, in development or in 
production use PowerVR Series5 
and Series5XT. The Group’s new 
generation technology, codenamed 
‘Rogue’, has been acknowledged 
by many key partners as the market 
leader and has already secured around 
ten licensees with the number of 
committed SoCs with this family now 
approaching 20. This technology was 
delivered to our lead partners earlier 
this year and we have now seen ﬁrst 
silicon based on this IP from some of 
our partners. 
PowerVR graphics technology now has 
*  The reconciliation from reported results to adjusted results is set out in Note 2. 5
a very strong and/or growing footprint 
across the three major mobile platforms 
namely iOS, Android and the emerging 
Windows Phone 8. Semiconductor 
partners using PowerVR graphics for 
the Android platform now exceed 14 
with eight top tier companies. This is 
ensuring strong market share in this 
platform particularly as new partners 
launch their products. With respect 
to the new Windows 8 and Windows 
Phone 8 platforms we have multiple tier 
one partner engagements and expect 
a strong play in these areas as they 
launch in 2012 and beyond.
The TV and STB market areas were 
among the most active during FY 
2011-12 with a record number of 
licenses closed and as a result SoC 
commitments in this segment have 
grown signiﬁcantly.
PowerVR technology has a very strong 
and comprehensive roadmap to 
ensure its market-leading position. The 
complementary ray tracing technology, 
obtained through the Caustic 
acquisition, is on track and will, in due 
course, further strengthen our offering 
and add to our competitive position. 
Video – PowerVR video decode and 
encode families support the latest and 
emerging video decode and encode 
formats. We are seeing growing 
adoption of these technologies among 
our partners with a number of new 
licenses added during the year. An 
increasing number of our graphics 
licensees are also selecting our video IP 
to be integrated alongside our graphics 
cores. Around 50% of the devices with 
our IP shipped annually include our 
video cores.
The growing demand for video 
technology is driven by content delivery 
and, increasingly, user content creation 
(e.g. YouTube) and two-way delivery 
of video. The trend is towards the 
widespread use of the internet for video 
content delivery including both mobile 
video delivery and the internet-protocol 
(IP) TV capability needed in video-on-
demand and catch-up TV.
In keeping with our strategy of 
providing leading-edge and market-
driving technologies to our customers 
we have recently launched the new 
Series4 video processors offering 
increased performance and precision 
and supporting the emerging ultra HD 
resolution displays of 4Kx2K pixels. 
This enables very high quality and/
or displaying full HD at the same time 
as related information such as social 
network interactive pages. These 
technologies are needed with respect 
to future generations of smart  
TV products.
Display – PowerVR I2P and 
FRC deliver image processing 
enhancements for TVs, STBs and other 
consumer devices. The convergence 
trends are increasingly requiring 
features reserved for the TV market 
to migrate into other categories 
including mobile phones, tablets/mobile 
computing and in car multimedia. Our 
offerings are particularly strong in low-
power and size efﬁciency as well as 
delivering the required quality. We have 
secured multiple design wins across 
this IP family involving both tier one and 
smaller companies. 
Connectivity/broadcast – The 
interest and engagement in the 
Ensigma UCC family of IP cores 
continues to grow. We secured ﬁve 
new or repeat licenses this year with 
the total number of active partners 
now standing at seven. We also have 
a strong and growing pipeline of 
engagements and evaluations on-
going for this technology. Ensigma 
UCC programmable radio processing 
units (RPU) support worldwide TV and 
radio reception as well as important 
connectivity standards such as Wi-
Fi, all running on the same silicon 
engine in software. This technology 
is increasingly essential for delivery of 
Cloud and broadcast content to home 
and also within the enterprise. Already 
we have partner devices in volume 
shipment using this technology for 
digital radio and Wi-Fi connectivity and 
we expect several new partner devices 
targeting multi-standard/global TV 
markets to begin shipment during the 
current ﬁnancial year.  6
Embedded processor cores – the 
Meta family of processors offers 
state-of-the-art general-processing 
combined with multi-threading, 
demanding real-time and signal-
processing capabilities. These 
capabilities are ideal for highly 
integrated, feature-rich and cost 
effective systems. With its extensive 
capabilities, Meta technology is also 
ideal as an application processor for 
running the operating system whilst 
also offering the built-in multi-threading, 
real-time and signal processing 
capabilities to carry out other key tasks, 
eliminating external hardware. 
These features combined with our 
Ensigma technology offer a highly 
efﬁcient ’connected processor‘ 
which we believe is well positioned 
for many connected devices and the 
emerging Machine-to-Machine (M2M) 
applications. We have introduced the 
new MetaFlow family to address these 
market segments and are supporting 
this offering with new and innovative 
Cloud-connected client and portal 
technologies marketed under  
Flow Technology.
Many of our IP cores integrate Meta 
processing cores already. Over 50%, 
i.e. more than 160m, of the annual 
volumes of our IP shipments deploy 
Meta technology and we expect this 
trend to continue upwards. 
The growth of open source operating 
systems such as Android and other 
Linux implementations, the trend 
towards heterogeneous systems/
standards and the inevitable growth of 
internet connectivity across the majority 
of devices, will further drive deployment 
of higher-end Meta processors in 
application processors in a variety  
of markets. 
V.VoIP – Since the acquisition of 
HelloSoft, we have established 
strong V.VoIP product lines, including 
platform agnostic SDKs. As a result, 
we have seen a number of important 
engagements with respect to our VoIP 
(Voice-over-IP) and V.VoiP (Video and 
Voice-over-IP) technologies. This is in 
part driven by the arrival of 4G/Long 
Term Evolution (LTE) networks which 
require VoIP on LTE (VoLTE) an area 
where HelloSoft product lines can 
have a strong play. HelloSoft V.VoIP 
technology has now been adopted by 
a number of key network operators 
for both enterprise and consumer 
segments with a number of handset 
design-wins also secured.
Partner chip shipments 
and royalties 
Partner chip unit shipments grew 
to 325m units (2011: 245m units). 
Growth was driven by increasing sales 
in mobile phone, PMP, tablet/mobile 
computing devices, TV/STB, digital 
radio and car navigation/dashboard. 
As expected the shipment volume 
substantially accelerated during 
the second half to over 200m units 
(2011:138m). This was due to the 
timing of new handset launches for 
both Android and iOS in October 2011, 
the migration of our newer licensees 
from development phase to volume 
ramp of their application processors 
and the usual holiday period demand 
surge. The ramp-up was also 
enhanced further by the growth in 
volume in other categories including 
tablets and mobile computing devices 
as well as growing volume in gaming 
devices and STBs/TVs. 
SoC design wins  
and pipeline
SoC design wins are the driver for 
future partner chip shipments and 
royalty revenue growth. Strong 
continuing momentum saw new 
partner SoC design wins increase to 
136 (net of obsolescence) (2011: 115). 
Of these, 60 are shipping or beginning 
to ship, with the balance of 76 still in 
design. The latter will be the driver  
for signiﬁcant further royalty  
revenue growth. 
These committed devices are 
continuing to diversify across 
Imagination’s partners and key  
market segments:
 43 for mobile phone application 
processors  7
 Eight for handheld multimedia 
(PMPs, hand-held gaming/
entertainment, camera, mobile TV) 
 37 for Home Consumer 
Entertainment (TVs, STBs, DVDs, 
digital radio and audio, connected 
audio, and home entertainment 
devices) 
 17 in mobile computing (tablet/
mobile computing) 
 18 for In-car (navigation, dashboard, 
personal navigation devices) 
 13 for other markets covering green 
energy, networking, healthcare, 
enterprise, industrial, amusement  
and toys
Pure business
Despite the economic environment 
in the UK, Pure was able to grow 
its revenues whilst also carrying its 
strategic tasks in support of the overall 
Group objectives. This was driven 
by strong export business as digital 
radio deployment spreads across EU 
and elsewhere and the growth of the 
market for connected radio and  
audio devices. 
Pure product lines have been and 
continue to be based on using 
Imagination’s underlying IP in 
processing, connectivity/broadcast 
and multimedia and are planned 
and developed to create supportive 
technologies and solutions to drive 
selected markets and the adoption of 
Imagination’s technologies in those 
markets. To provide some clarity on 
Pure’s activities and its strategic goals 
it should be noted that chronologically 
Pure has focussed on the following 
three areas:
1. Digital radio. Pure’s product line 
drove the market from the early days 
and set the much needed agenda 
to help develop this new market. 
This continues today in the form of 
supporting and driving the adoption 
of digital radio internationally. 
These include key markets such as 
Germany, Australia and Switzerland 
where Pure’s activities have been 
instrumental in the excellent 
progress made. Pure has executed 
these strategic tasks very effectively 
and has directly inﬂuenced the 
development of the market and 
helped in securing a signiﬁcant 
market share for Imagination. Over 
70% of digital radios shipped today 
including those by many leading 
brands other than Pure are based 
on Imagination’s Ensigma UCC and 
Meta technologies.
2. As a ﬁrst step in helping to drive 
home connectivity and automation, 
Pure has been focussed on wireless 
audio streaming across three key 
application areas; hybrid internet 
and broadcast radio enabling 
access to global radio stations 
and audio content; advanced 
interactive internet connected 
services especially Cloud music 
delivery which deploys Imagination’s 
Cloud enabling technologies; and 
audio streaming of content from 
popular mobile devices to home 
audio systems and speakers. These 
developments and product offerings 
are part of a careful plan to both 
pathﬁnd and reﬁne Imagination’s key 
IP for the home environment, help in 
the development of complementary 
strategic technologies (e.g. 
Imagination’s Connected Processor 
and Flow technology) and very 
importantly develop selected 
markets.
3. A key goal is to ultimately 
contribute to the emergence 
and development of the home 
automation opportunities 
through use of Imagination’s 
processing, connectivity and Cloud 
technologies. This is the latest area 
of strategic focus for Pure with 
technologies and products yet to  
be announced. 
Several key products were launched 
during the last ﬁnancial year in line 
with the above strategic objectives. 
The most recent products include the 
new ﬂagship Sensia 200D Connect, 
the Contour 200i Air and the Contour 
100Di. The Sensia 200D Connect 
combines digital radio, internet radio,  8
extensive services from Pure Lounge 
and Wi-Fi streaming from phones and 
tablets through Pure Apps. Contour 
200i Air is Pure’s ﬁrst Airplay product 
and Contour 100Di comes with a dock 
for iPad, iPhone and iPod as well as 
the free companion internet radio and 
music streaming app from Pure.
The second generation Highway in-
car digital radio and audio adapter, 
Highway 300Di launched with Halfords 
and more recently under an OEM 
arrangement via Alpine. Pure Music, 
a Cloud-based on-demand music 
service, was launched in the UK with 
other services and regions coming 
soon. Other products launched 
included Move 2500, a new pocket 
digital and FM radio and successor 
to the best-selling and award-winning 
PocketDAB 1500. The new EVOKE Mio 
by Orla Kiely (Abacus Flower Edition) 
achieved strong coverage in this year’s 
Christmas gift guides and was in fact 
one of Pure’s best-selling radios over 
the peak season. Pure’s One family 
of radios has also been refreshed and 
the One Classic and One Elite Series 2 
have been updated with innovative  
new features.
The One Classic Series 2 has already 
received a highly prestigious What 
Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision ﬁve star 
award and a Gold Medal in the Mail 
on Sunday’s Live Awards. Other 
key awards include Contour 100Di 
achieving 5 stars from TechRadar 
and What Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision 
magazine, One Flow being awarded 
5 stars in BBC Music magazine and 
winning both ‘Best internet radio 
under £150’ in the 2011 What Hi-Fi? 
Sound and Vision Awards and ‘Best 
Digital Radio Product of the Year’ in 
Australia’s Sound and Image Awards. 
The new Highway 300Di also won the 
coveted Auto Express 2012 ‘Product of 
the Year award’.
The Group’s investment in developing 
the Flow connectivity and FlowWorld 
Cloud portal technologies, which form 
the basis of Pure’s ‘www.thelounge.
com’ portal and, in collaboration with 
ecosystem partners, enable services 
such as Pure Music, is a key and 
strategic activity that Pure is helping 
to drive. This platform will be part of 
Imagination’s licensable technologies 
and will help to enable the next 
generation of Cloud-based products 
and services across home automation, 
assisted-living/healthcare, security and 
other emerging internet-connected 
devices. Over time we will be offering 
our Cloud enabling technology, Flow, 
in its own right, bringing our portal 
technology, connectivity and processor 
IPs together to address the many 
emerging connected applications 
beyond the radio market.
Outlook 
Our business has made signiﬁcant 
progress to date but the full exploitation 
of many of our key technologies is 
still at a relatively early stage in many 
markets. For example, the smart 
phone market alone is forecast by 
industry analysts to grow over three 
times by 2015 reaching an annual 
volume around 1.5bn units. Given 
our strong existing and growing 
partnerships across both of the 
important established platforms, 
iOS and Android, where we have 
strong presence, and also our serious 
involvement in the emerging Windows 
Phone 8 platform with multiple tier one 
partners, we believe a market share 
goal of over half of the total smart 
phone market by 2015 and beyond, is 
a reasonable and realistic goal.  
Additionally our strong presence in the 
fast-growing tablet market, where the 
vast majority of the leading platforms 
are using devices with our technology, 
with industry analysts suggesting this 
market will reach over 300m units by 
2015 means this segment will make   9
a notable contribution to the  
Group’s progress.
The favourable transitions in TV/STB 
markets towards ’smart‘ functionality 
where we have many active partners 
and have seen signiﬁcant design-win 
growth this year is set to increasingly 
contribute to our volume ramp-up. 
We believe that these facts as well as 
our growing partnerships with respect 
to our other key complementary 
technologies including PowerVR video, 
Ensigma connectivity, Meta/MetaFlow 
connected processor, HelloSoft V.VoiP, 
across several diverse markets, will 
create the demand for the Group to 
achieve the target of around 1bn per 
annum unit shipments by 2016.
We also continue to see good demand 
in all of our IP offerings which is 
manifesting itself in an on-going active 
pipeline of licensing prospects. There 
are extensive on-going evaluations and 
engagements across all of our IP lines.
Despite the current economic 
environment, Pure continues to 
showcase effectively and drive some 
of our key technologies. This business 
is expected to see improvements as 
the international revenues continue to 
grow and as the economic environment 
improves in the medium term. Pure 
is an integral part of the Group’s 
strategy and focuses on targeting 
emerging consumer markets that can 
beneﬁt from a driver and pathﬁnder 
approach. This has been successfully 
executed in digital radio in the UK with 
the focus now moving to international 
development. Our strategy will 
ultimately also lead to complementary 
areas involving home connectivity  
and the provision of useful remote 
Cloud services.
The Board is conﬁdent that Imagination 
remains very well placed for further 
solid growth based on the strong 
momentum in and strengthening of 
its business with the active licensing 
pipeline, the secured and growing 
extensive SoC design wins, expected 
chip volume ramp and royalty growth, 
as well as the potential for Pure 
to exploit its strong product line-
up, including its Cloud-connected 
solutions, internationally.
Hossein Yassaie 
Chief Executive
19 June 2012
