 2
Chairman’s 
Statement
This year has seen continuing 
momentum in our business. Another 
strong year of growth in licensing 
activity and an increasing number of 
partners shipping devices incorporating 
our technology have led to a 30% 
increase in revenue to £127.5m with 
adjusted proﬁt before tax increasing by 
53% to £36.8m. 325m devices were 
shipped in the year by a more diverse 
range of partners and across a broader 
range of our technologies.
The Technology business continues 
to strengthen with notable licensing 
agreements with a number of strategic 
partners, across the full range of our 
technologies. These agreements 
will provide the momentum for the 
business to grow in the coming years 
in all the dynamic markets that our 
partners cover.
Pure has continued its development 
in international markets, in particular 
with the launch of a Digital Audio 
Broadcasting (DAB) radio network in 
Germany. These overseas markets 
have offered us more than 50% year on 
year growth and have helped to offset 
the continuing tough retail environment 
in the UK. The year has also seen the 
development of important strategic 
products which will be important for  
the business going forward. 
To support the broadening customer 
base and the diverse range of 
technologies we provide, the business 
continues to invest in its key resources. 
These investments enable us to 
provide the customer support that our 
partners require to deliver world leading 
products, and will enable us to scale 
to the levels necessary to maintain our 
leadership in the markets in which we 
operate. We are particularly pleased 
with the progress being made by our 
recent acquisitions and also in our 
efforts in the area of connectivity which 
is of ever increasing importance in the 
markets we address.
Scaling the business and the challenges 
around this are treated as an important 
aspect of our development. As part of 
this we have taken and will continue to 
take steps to ensure appropriate levels 
of governance commensurate with our 
growing business. In this regard we 
have strengthened our board with the 
appointment of two new Non-Executive 
Directors. We will keep this aspect of 
our development under review and 
reﬁne our approach in preparation for 
the opportunities and challenges ahead.
I must again mention and give huge 
credit for the success of the Group and 
its exciting progress to our some 1,200 
employees. Their desire for success, 
commitment to quality and exceptional 
efforts are exemplary.
Thank you too for your keen interest 
and continued support.
Geoff Shingles 
Chairman
