 CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP LEAD THE BOARD 
TO RECOMMEND THAT THE FINAL DIVIDEND BE INCREASED BY 12% TO 19.0p.  
THIS MAKES A TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR OF 30.0p, AN INCREASE OF 
15% OVER LAST YEAR’S 26.0p.  
In my ﬁrst set of results since taking over as Chairman in 
November, I am pleased to report a strong performance 
by IMI in 2011 with good organic growth and further 
margin improvement.  Group revenues grew by 12% on  
a reported basis and by 5% on an organic basis, after 
adjusting for recent acquisitions and for exchange rate 
movements, reﬂecting improved trading conditions in 
most of our end markets.  Segmental operating proﬁt 
increased by 17% and the operating margin improved 
from 16.7% to 17.5%. Adjusted earnings per share 
increased by 23% to a record 81.5p.  
These results together with our strong performance on 
cash conversion and conﬁdence in the future prospects 
of the Group lead the Board to recommend that the ﬁnal 
dividend be increased by 12% to 19.0p.  This makes a 
total dividend for the year of 30.0p, an increase of 15% 
over last year’s 26.0p.  
Collectively, our three Fluid Controls businesses performed 
well, with a particularly strong performance by Fluid Power.  
Severe Service margins were impacted by an adverse 
sales mix and some operational challenges associated with 
the move to lower cost facilities.  Overall, on an organic 
basis, Fluid Controls revenues grew by 6% with operating 
margins increasing to 18.7% from 18.3% last year.  
In Retail Dispense, both Beverage Dispense and 
Merchandising continued to focus on improving the 
product mix and the quality of their businesses.  
Revenues grew by 3% on an organic basis despite the 
continued targeted exit from some lower margin product 
lines in the Beverage business.  Operating margins have 
again beneﬁted from this improving mix, increasing to 
13.7% from 11.8% last year.  
The IMI Way is our code of responsible business which 
targets the very highest standards of ethical business and 
compliance. The Group has been reinforcing the core values 
and messages of the IMI Way with regular training since its 
launch in 2009.  In 2011, each of our main businesses held 
IMI Way days where, as well as receiving targeted training, 
employees engaged in a number of worthwhile projects in 
their local communities.  In 2012, we have planned a single 
IMI Way day for the whole Group, encompassing over 
15,000 employees.  
I should like to recognise Norman Askew, who retired as 
Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2011.  Norman led 
the Board for over six years, during which time IMI made 
great progress in its development into a leading global 
engineering business, with a clear focus on the precise 
control of ﬂuids in critical applications.  I would personally 
like to thank Norman for his major contribution to the 
Group and the invaluable help he provided me during the 
succession period.  
We were pleased to announce in May 2011 that Sean 
Toomes, President of Indoor Climate, had been promoted 
to the Board and assumed the important additional 
responsibilities for developing IMI’s key account 
management strategy and corporate responsibility agenda. 
Since joining the Board I have had the opportunity to visit 
many of IMI’s operations.  I have been extremely impressed 
by the skills, expertise and energy displayed by my 
colleagues across the world and I am grateful for their 
continued efforts and enthusiasm in helping to deliver this 
year’s strong results.  We continue to invest in our people 
and have once again this year conducted an employee 
engagement survey to ensure that we continue to provide a 
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
16 Group operating review
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Roberto Quarta 
Chairman 
1 March 2012
Roberto Quarta  Chairman
working environment that allows them to contribute to their 
full potential.  
IMI is a strong company, with market leading technology in 
many of its global niche markets.  I believe that we are well 
placed for the future with a clearly deﬁned strategy which 
should deliver further sustainable margin improvement and 
long term growth, notably through the acceleration of our 
new product agenda and increased exposure to the faster 
growing emerging markets.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 17
