 2011 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS FOR IMI, WITH ORGANIC 
REVENUE GROWTH OF OVER 5%, RECORD OPERATING MARGINS OF 17.5%  
AND ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENTS ACROSS MOST AREAS OF THE GROUP.  
Against a macro-economic background where uncertainty 
increased markedly in the second half, the results reﬂect 
the continued beneﬁts that are being derived from the 
fundamental reshaping of the Group over the last decade. 
The consistency of approach has delivered a signiﬁcant 
and sustainable improvement in the underlying quality and 
proﬁtability of the Group.  
The macro-economic environment remains uncertain with 
limited GDP growth forecast in developed Western economies 
in the medium term and with global growth being propelled 
largely through emerging economies.  Within this context 
current trading patterns have nevertheless remained stable as 
we enter 2012, with no material changes in trends witnessed 
over the last few months.
We remain committed to our three pronged strategy of 
gradually increasing each year the proportion of our 
business in our favoured end market niches (‘Strategic 
Convergence’); accelerating our growth through increased 
investment in new products and emerging markets; and 
maintaining a long established upward trend in margins 
through a process of pricing optimisation and year on year 
reductions in our manufacturing and supply chain costs.
Strategic convergence
During the year we continued to develop our long term 
thinking around strategic convergence, providing a route 
map for gradually increasing the percentage of our revenues 
in our sweetspot.  For IMI, strategic convergence means 
prioritising both organic and acquisition investment in favour 
of differentiated ﬂuid technologies, applied to global market 
niches where we already have, or can aspire to, a leadership 
position, and which beneﬁt from a heightened exposure to 
attractive market trends.  These trends include climate 
change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing 
population.  We believe these trends are set to be with us for 
generations, surviving economic cycles and our increasing 
exposure to them will deliver a signiﬁcantly higher level of 
growth over the long term.  
Today just over half of IMI’s operations are positioned 
within the sweetspot which is characterised by  
higher growth, higher margins and greater resilience.   
Over time we would expect to increase signiﬁcantly this 
proportion through disciplined choices around customer 
selection, new product development and acquisitions.   
To support this objective, each of our platform businesses 
has made an assessment of the current strategic 
sweetspot positioning, and has developed a set of plans 
for increasing convergence over the next few years.  
Growth acceleration
Against the background of global macro-economic 
uncertainty with limited market growth expected in 
Western economies, IMI needs to allocate its resources 
carefully to drive future growth.  In particular, we will focus 
on three principal areas:
 Acceleration of new product activity with the 
prioritisation of product applications with high exposure 
to favourable mega trends and to emerging markets.
 Signiﬁcant expansion of our emerging markets 
presence, through accelerated investment in sales and 
engineering resource in the key targeted territories.
 Supplementing our organic initiatives through an active 
acquisition programme, prioritising businesses with 
high sweetspot exposure and a strong emerging 
markets presence.  In this regard we were pleased to 
announce two Severe Service acquisitions, Remosa 
SpA and Grupo InterAtiva, in February 2012.  These 
businesses signiﬁcantly strengthen our isolation valve 
capabilities and our emerging market exposure, notably 
in South America.  We retain a strong balance sheet 
and have a number of additional acquisition 
opportunities in the pipeline. 
Margin sustainability
Funding for our increased investment in growth will be met 
through a continuation of our ongoing initiatives to improve 
margins which remains therefore a key focus for us.  As we 
highlighted in the interim results we have built up a strong 
track record over many years of delivering price and value 
beneﬁts comfortably in excess of any labour cost and 
supply chain inﬂation, the so called “inﬂation equation”, 
irrespective of the macro-economic circumstances.  
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW
18 Group operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Martin Lamb 
Chief Executive 
1 March 2012
Martin Lamb  Chief Executive
Looking forward we expect to continue winning the “inﬂation 
equation” over time through optimising prices, driving down 
supply chain costs and delivering substantial productivity 
gains. In addition, our long term programmes to move more 
manufacturing and procurement to lower cost countries is 
continuing and we are gaining traction on our initiatives 
around supplier rationalisation and value engineering. 
Outlook
IMI has delivered another strong set of results in 2011 with 
good growth and record underlying proﬁts, margins and 
earnings.  In light of this performance, and our conﬁdence 
in the future prospects for the business, we are pleased to 
propose an increase in the full year dividend of 15%.
Whilst the global macro-economic outlook remains 
uncertain, we are committed to our well deﬁned plans to 
drive strategic convergence, accelerate future growth, 
deliver further margin improvement and make greater use 
of our strong balance sheet in delivering value enhancing 
acquisitions.  
Based on current market conditions we remain optimistic 
that the Group will make further progress in 2012.
GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS BUSINESS OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 19
