 Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings plc  A n n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 0
14
Chief Executive Officer’s review
The IDS Group has had another gruelling but very 
successful year. We have grown in size, turnover, 
profitability and prospects, reflecting the underlying 
maturation of an expanding global workforce with  
a more eclectic range of specialist products.
This year we faced the most prodigious growth 
challenge ever experienced by IDS, namely breaking 
into the daunting automated immunoassay market 
whilst continuing to nurture and grow our longstanding 
manual assay business. 
The launch of the fully-automated immunoanalyser,  
the IDS-iSYS, in February 2009 set the stage for 
FY 2009/10, with the prime focus being the realisation 
of the enormous potential that the marriage of the 
all-new instrument and our proven immunoassay 
expertise represented. 
The requirements for success were well-known to  
us – the instrument itself has to be constructed to a 
very high quality, achieve the capacity, speed and 
precision requirements of the most demanding of 
laboratories and offer a high degree of reliability.  
The assays automated thereupon similarly have  
to be of the highest quality, with sensitivities and 
specificities to meet or exceed the most demanding 
specifications and must be manufactured to the 
highest possible consistency. And these two essential 
components, the IDS-iSYS and its assays, “the razor 
and the razor blades”, have to work exquisitely in 
concert, day in and day out.
I’m tempted to say it was a close shave, but instead am 
pleased to report that with a fair wind and hard work we 
appear to have ticked all the required boxes.
Investors will know that the roll-out of the IDS-iSYS,  
the speed and frequency of realizing placements and 
“time to go live” in revenue generating accounts, was 
slower in the early stages than anticipated. An unknown 
machine from a company not known for automation 
provoked caution in an otherwise enthusiastic audience.
Fortunately this has changed with experience  
gained in the field and the invaluable “word of mouth” 
passing among a highly communicative customer 
base. Evaluations throughout Europe have accelerated  
as our operations in the UK, Germany, France and 
Scandinavia have gained confidence and competence. 
These Group subsidiaries have excelled this year, 
increasing sales of all of our manual products even  
as they tackle the new challenges of automation.  
Our distributors in Canada, Australia and Spain  
have been particularly bullish, and other territories  
are now shaping up to follow suit with the IDS-iSYS. 
A gruelling but  
successful year
“ We have grown in size, turnover,  
profitability and prospects.”
Roger Duggan, PhD
Chief Executive Officer Immunodiagnostic Systems Holdings plc  A n n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 0
15
System launch in the USA was frustrated by a 
protracted delay in receipt of pre-market approval from 
the US FDA, who have “upped their game” in what is 
known as 510(k) submissions. The IVD industry as a 
whole now appreciates that approval timescales have 
lengthened over the past 18 months with most recent 
examples, including our own, taking 6-12 months  
from time of submission. However, our clearance,  
dated 25th, was received on 28 June and we have 
unleashed an eager US sales force. In the interim, we 
did not waste the time the delay presented – IDS Inc is 
today still better prepared for launching the iSYS into 
the single largest, most automated IVD market in the 
world. We have further improved our new premises  
in Scottsdale, and the enlarged sales team has lifted 
manual product sales impressively. And our US field 
engineers have broadened their knowledge of the 
European way of life by honing their new skills 
alongside other IDS engineers busy in France,  
Belgium and the UK. It has been a pleasure to see  
the interest and enjoyment of personnel throughout  
the Group that this cultural mix has generated.
This year we have launched more new immunoassay 
products than in any previous year in our history. The 
teams in Boldon and Liège have delivered human 
Growth Hormone (hGH) and Insulin-like Growth Factor 
I (IGF-I), both developed in association with Dr Martin 
Bidlingmaier of Munich, Intact PINP, Osteocalcin and 
Intact PTH to the IDS-iSYS product range. We continue 
to embody our policy of “raising the bar” with every 
product development to challenge and dispirit our 
competitors. Thus our Bone Panel and our Growth 
Panel take on shape and content, with more analytes  
to be added to each later this year. A Hypertension 
Panel will follow before the year-end. The ability to 
‘up-sell” increases with every new product launch,  
and can only add to the revenues received per  
machine placed, already above early expectations.
The continued buoyancy in the sales of our manual 
products has been an excellent contributor to the year’s 
Group performance, with little cannibalisation by the 
automated IDS-iSYS alternatives at this juncture. Given 
that new biomarker assays to be released will almost 
invariably appear first in a manual Research Use Only 
format, our further investment in expanding production 
capacity in our Boldon plant is both necessary and 
timely. And as the range of products available on the 
IDS-iSYS grows, so cannibalisation of manual accounts 
becomes evermore a desirable outcome, enabling 
up-selling on each and every machine out there.
In a fast-moving and competitive environment, we must 
keep our eyes open for both threat and opportunity.  
We are very aware that competition will become much 
more severe in the Vitamin D market in the relatively 
near future. Whilst the market will continue to grow at 
impressive rates for the next few years, some major 
players will enter and the dynamics will change. The 
broadening of our product range and the access to 
larger specialist accounts afforded by the IDS-iSYS will 
certainly ameliorate the inevitable pressure on Vitamin 
D sales, and the quest for new biomarkers, new 
applications and new technologies will play a part  
in our readiness for the future.
The present year will be seminal in the history of IDS as 
we are able to fully exploit our manual and automated 
products worldwide. As the business continues to  
grow at an exhilarating rate, we are attuned to the 
changing demands on the ‘Senior Team’ and I am 
happy to hand the reins of the IDS Group to a very 
capable successor in Ian Cookson. Ian has the skill 
sets to take the Company to greater heights, and I look 
forward to exercising my more entrepreneurial talents 
elsewhere in the Group. I am looking forward to leading 
some talented younger colleagues in the newly-formed 
Business Development Group. IDS has identified a 
number of highly-attractive avenues to pursue with a 
number of prestigious research institutes and innovative 
companies in Europe and the USA, and potential 
additions to the IDS family. In the forthcoming months 
and years, I am confident that we will secure rights, by 
licence or acquisition, to some very exciting products, 
markets and technologies.
How is the IDS Group in July 2010?
We are in excellent shape financially and intellectually 
and poised for more steady and directed growth. Our 
mantra remains “to be the best in our chosen fields of 
application”, and by striving to achieve this I am sure that 
we will continue to add significantly to shareholder value.
Roger Duggan, PhD
Chief Executive Officer
9 July 2010
A-Z
“ We are in excellent shape 
financially and intellectually  
and poised for more steady  
and directed growth. Our mantra 
remains “to be the best in our 
chosen fields of application”,  
and by striving to achieve this  
I am sure that we will continue  
to add significantly to  
shareholder value.”
Roger Duggan, PhD, Chief Executive Officer
