 IMPERIAL TOBACCO
GROUP PLC / 2005
26
Manufacturing
OUR PERFORMANCE
Productivity was up by an excellent 15 per cent with increases
in all regions. Cigarette unit costs were down by 6 per cent.
We further simplified our product portfolio reducing our
blends, materials, ingredients and Stock Keeping Units.
Blends were down by 10 per cent during the year, bringing
the total reduction to 41 per cent in the past three years.
We continue to manage our Stock Keeping Units reducing
the opening position by some 9 per cent.
Reflecting our ongoing commitment to address our surplus
production capacity, we closed our factories in Dublin,
Plattsburgh and Montreal enhancing our productivity and
improving operational efficiencies. In September, we
announced the closure of the UK rolling papers factory in
Treforest, South Wales, and the transfer and consolidation
of production to our larger papers plant in Wilrijk, Belgium.
We also announced plans to restructure our European
cigarette operations, including the relocation of approximately
10 billion cigarettes for the Central and Eastern Europe
markets from Germany to Poland.
Standardising our systems is key to our operational efficiency.
A consistent product quality rating system, a time to market
system, standard factory data collection and control
systems and ISO standards for quality and environment all
contributed to reduced waste, lower write-off costs, lower
energy usage and improved factory performance. We have
driven a number of improvements in the year, reflected in
our key performance indicators, for example, four sites
gained ISO accreditation.
The use of key performance indicators has also helped
us in improving our supply chain, which moves more than
700,000 tonnes of products per year. We are implementing
an integrated IT system to improve our performance,
in the areas of stock visibility, sales forecasting and
production planning.
OUTLOOK
We will continue to drive for improvements throughout our
manufacturing and supply chain activities as we have done
over the last 20 years, focusing on business simplification
in all areas, delivering both improvements in product quality
and cost savings, while remaining flexible and responsive
to market dynamics.
OPERATING AND 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
We delivered further significant cost savings across our
manufacturing base. During the year we continued to focus
on the simplification and standardisation of our business
while reviewing our global manufacturing portfolio in order
to remain competitive and reduce costs.
